ANATOMICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.ANATOMICAL AND t PHYSIOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. BY JOHN STRUTHERS, M.D. FELLOW OF THE BOYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH, LECTURER ON ANATOMY. PART I. EDINBURGH: SUTHERLAITD AND KNOX, GEOEGE STREET; SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO., LONDON. 1854.A1UBRAT AND GIBB, PBINTERS, EDINBURGH.PREFACE. This Volume was prepared for the students attending my lectures last winter Session. It consists chiefly of Papers which have already appeared at different times in the Medical Journals, to which E"otes and several Papers are now added. For the shortness of these ad- ditions I can only offer the excuse, that they were made, and the Yolume prepared, during the latter weeks of a very busy Session, during which I was occupied in lec- turing twice a-day, and superintending the dissecting- room studies of a class of four hundred students; a laborious system which custom has entailed upon the teacher of anatomy here, and which, though beneficial to the student, and although it may be held that our time cannot be more usefully occupied than in teaching,— leaves much less leisure than I would wish for the no less pleasing occupations of research and authorship. J. s. Edinburgh, June 12, 1854.ERRATUM. Page 89, line 8—for discus read viscns.CONTENTS. Page I. ON THE SUPKA-CONDYLOID PROCESS, . . 3 n. ON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE IN MAN AND VERTEBRATE ANIMALS, . . . 7 III. ON DOUBLE STOMACH IN MAN, . . . 19 rV. ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT, . . . 27 V. ON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE AND THE FCETAL HEART, ..... 63 VI. CASE IN WHICH THE PULMONARY ARTERY GAVE ORIGIN TO THE DESCENDING AORTA AND LEFT SUBCLAVIAN, . . . .75 Vn. ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE MODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING, . . 79CONTENTS. Vlll VIII. DISSECTION IN A CASE OP PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE, . . 95 IX. DESCRIPTION OF AN ESQUIMAUX FEMALE PELVIS, 105 X. ON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEART, . 109 XI. ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS, . . .119 XII. ON BRANCHES FROM THE FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES TO THE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, . 133 Xni. ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTES- TINE, ..... 137 XIV. ON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY, CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW, . . . .167 XV. ON THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM, . 193 XVI. ON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA, . . . 231 Part II. will contain Observations On the Hip Joint—The Foetal Circula- tion—The Siu-gical Anatomy of Club Foot—on the Cystic Duct—On Some Points in the Anatomy and Physiology of the Brain and Spinal Cord—and On the Structure and Adaptation of the Muscles of the Inferior Extremity.IIL ON THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. FROM THE MONTHLY JODBNAL OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, OCTOBER 1848. A FEW instances have been recorded in which the humeral artery and median nerve continued downwards in a direction towards the internal condyle, above which, in order to gain their usual position in front of the elbow, they passed around a peculiar process, there developed from the humerus, as if for the pur- pose of affording them protection. This singular arrangement has occurred comparatively so often of late in the subjects dissected in my rooms, as to induce me to call more particular attention to it, since it is one of some importance to the surgeon, and is interesting also from the analogy it presents to the usual arrangement of these parts in certain animals.^ The process, and the ligament by which the protective arch is completed, are represented by Tiedemann; ^ but, in this instance, the arteiy which passed through was not the main trunk, but a large interosseous, which had arisen high in the arm. The first description which I find of this peculiarity is by Dr Knox,^ who —after reasonably doubting the correctness of a statement, which 1 In many animals—amongst the Quadrumana, Rodentia, Edentata, Marsupialia, and more especially the Carnivora—the median nerve and humeral artery pass through an opening in the humerus, which is formed by an arched process crossing obliquely the inner surface of the bone, close above the internal condyle. 2 Tabulae Artcriarum, PI. xv. fig. 3. 1822. ' Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1841, p. 125.ON THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. 4 appears to have been made by Magcndie, that there existed a " supra-condyloid" process and foramen in the humerus of the yellow races of Africa—states that approaches to the same struc- ture might be found in many European arms; and records an instance in which the arrangement had just occurred to him in " the left arm of a stout muscular middle-aged man," with the deviation of the artery and nerve in order that they might pass around the process. Another instance of this arrangement is re- corded by Mr E. Quain in his recent work on the arteries, and is represented in Plate xxxvi. fig, 3. I first saw this variety in the instance already quoted from Dr Knox, the preparation—showing the artery and nerve passing underneath the arch—being now in my possession; and I have since met with it on seven occasions in the dissecting room. The first of tliese I met with four years ago, on the left arm of a female subject. The second and third occurred the following year, in both arms of another female subject; and the remaining four during last winter session, being in both arms of two male subjects. In all of them the protective arch was well formed, and trans- mitted the median nerve and undivided humeral artery, except on the right side of the last subject, on which the artery held its usual course, the nerve passing through the arch, along with a small muscular artery, which, in size and origin, resembled the inferior profunda. The osseous portion of the arch arose at a distance from the internal condyle, varying from an inch and a quarter to two inches and a half, and nearer to the anterior than the internal border of the humerus. It then curved downwards and inwards, and—in none of the above instances having ex- ceeded three-fourths of an inch in length—gave attachment to the ligament, which, stretching in the same direction, joined the line cTose above the condyle, and thus completed the arch. In four of the above instances, the process, as now seen in the macerated bones, is from half to three-fourths of an inch in length. In the other tlu-ee it is shorter; more especially in that one in which the ai'ch transmitted the nerve but not the artery, whilst on the other humerus, from the same subject, the process5 ON THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. is the longest. The latter is represented in the drawing of the lower third of the bone. Tlie process and ligament are seen on their external and inferior aspect, so as to show the size of the opening as it now appears in the preparation. In observing the development of the arch in the cat, I find that, at different stages of its growth, it forms a process resemb- ling very much the conditions which it has presented in man. It is developed as part of the shaft of the bone, the ossification proceeding from above downwards; and very soon after birth it becomes united below to the lower end of the shaft, not to the epiphysis, of the bone. This account of the formation of the opening in animals, is opposed to the view of those who believe " that the passage of the artery through a foramen of the humerus, results simply from the extensive development of the inferfor extremity of that bone,"-' by which the vessel becomes at length encircled, in order, merely, that it may not be thro^vn out of its original and direct course; and tends to confirm the more common view, that the arrangement is one specially for the pui-pose of affording protection to the parts which the opening transmits; although, on the other hand, a consideration of the habits of the animals in which the arrangement occurs, and the dissection of the parts, do not render it evident that they, more than some others, require such a special means of protection for the nerve and artery. The above instances of the occurrence of this singular variety in man, having led me to think that it might have been present more frequently than had been noticed or recorded by anato- mists, I lately examined the preparations of these parts in the museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons of this city; and amongst those which had belonged to Dr Barclay, I found four instances of it, although he has not alluded to the variety in his work on the arteries. Two of these occur in separate arms, both of the left side. One that of a very young child, where the process is long; the other that of an adult, where the ligament also is preserved. The other two are seen in the preparation of 1 Introduction to the Natural History of Mammifcrous Animals, etc. P. 89 By W. C. Linnasus Martin. * • xjy6 ON THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. a child. The process is equally developed on both sides, but the ligament has been removed. On the right side, the undivided artery deviates and turns round the process. On the left, as in the other two instances, the radial artery arises above the middle of the arm, and continues downwards along the inner margin of the biceps, and the larger trunk (ulnar-interosseous) is removed to the inner side, and passes around the process. The number of the above instances is sufficiently great to ren- der the variety one of interest to the surgeon. It will be ob- served that in one-third of them there was a high division of the humeral artery, and that, whilst one of the trunks occupied the iisual position of the vessel, the other was removed consider- ably to its inner side; and in the remaining two-thirds, that the undivided tmnk was so situated, that it could scarcely have been reached by an incision made in the usual com'se of the artery. Further, at the bend of the elbow—as the pronator teres (or an additional muscular slip, which below joins the pronator) arises, in such a case, as high as from the ligamentous part of the arch —the artery is so overlapped or covered, that before it could be exposed here, some muscular fibres would require to be displaced or divided; although, it may be remarked, the circumstances usually requiring an operation upon this part of the vessel could scarcely occur, owing to its deep situation. It may be added, that the bony prominence was very readily felt before the dissection of the parts was begun, in the subjects in which it occurred in my rooms, even in the instance in which it was shortest; and the detection of this—in the preliminary examination, in a case where the operation was about to be per- formed—would, together with the situation of the pulsation, and the effect of pressure on the artery or arteries, at once indicate the existence of the variety in question to one who was aware of its occasional occurrence.^ 1 For farther observations on the supra-condyloid process, see Article XV.IL ON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, m MAN MD YERTEBRATE ANIMALS. FBOM THE MONTHLf JODBNAL OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, OCTOBEB 1849. Nearly ninety years ago it was remarked by Porterfield, that " though the action of these two obhque muscles seems pretty evident, yet there is scarce any part of the human body about which anatomists have differed more than in assigning them their proper oflBces:" and the observation is still appropiiate, although the subject has since engaged the attention of various anatomists. The question does not admit of being decided by experiments on the lower animals, chiefly because mammals are provided with an additional muscle, or series of muscles, for retracting or sus- pending the eye, which are beyond the reach of trustworthy ex- periment, and to which motions of the eyeball might be owing after the straight muscles had been divided. Accordingly, the opinions of most authors on this matter are founded upon a con- sideration of the manner in which it appeared to them that these muscles, from their direction and attachments, would influence the ball of the eye, so as to change the direction of its axis; and very different conclusions have been arrived at by the most emi- nent anatomists. A necessary preliminary to such an inquiry, is a correct under- standing as to the manner in which the eyeball actually moves. It appears to me that all the movements of the human eyeball are purely rotatory in their nature, as if it moved within a close-ON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, 8 fitting socket, or, as it were, on an universal pivot at its centre. The axis on which the rotatory motions occur M'ill always be at right angles to the moving power—transverse when the upper and lower recti act, vertical during the action of the lateral recti, and intermediate in the diagonal movements, which are performed by the conjoint action of two neiglibouring recti muscles. Again, in the motion of circumduction, as in turning the eyes round a room, which is performed by the alternate action of the four straight muscles, the centre, as it were, still remains unmoved, one end of the axis being depressed as the other is raised, and so on. In accordance with this we find the straight muscles sweep- ing over the globe of the eye, to become inserted considerably anterior to its middle, so as to fit them for producing these various motions; by all of which, it will be observed, the direc- tion of its axis is changed. But it is held by some, that, inde- pendent of any change in the direction of its axis, the eye, under certain circumstances, undergoes a movement quite different in its nature—that of rotation on its antero-posterior axis, or what is usually called the axis of the eye,—and that it is the function of the oblique muscles to produce this movement: which I shall call lateral rotation. It appeared to me that light might be thrown on this disputed subject by the evidence which comparative anatomy would no doubt afford; fpr, although the existence of corresponding muscles has been noticed in passing, by various writers on comparative anatomy, the arrangement of them with reference to their action on the eye does not appear to have been inquired into; and, having made careful dissections of these parts, in a great variety of instances, I am enabled to furnish, from my notes, the follow- ing summary of the arrangement of the oblique muscles in the different classes of vertebrate animals,—avoiding notice of the comparative anatomy of the other muscles of the eye, as in no Avay affecting the present inquiry.IN MAN AND VERTEBIMTE ANIMALS. 9 COMPAEATIVE ANATOMY. In Mammalia, tlie superior oblique has the same general ar- rangement as m man. The cliflFerences may be stated thus :— 1. That it is usually fleshy for some distance beyond the pulley, and therefore longer, at the same time that it is relatively larger. 2. It is usually not, as in man, directed backwards to the axis of the eye, but meets it nearly at right angles; and its course from the pulley to the eye is more horizontal than in man: and 3, That its point of insertion is not so far towards the outer and back part of the eye as in man, but is usually only a little ex- ternal to the vertical axis, and not more behind than in front of it. The insertion varies slightly in different animals, but in the greater number the insertion of the tendon is chiefly concealed by the upper rectus, the posterior border only appearing beyond it; whereas, in man, the tendon passes some way beyond, and also behind the vertical axis of the eye. The inferior oblique, also arising as in man, is not, as in him, directed backwards to the axis, but either forwards or at right angles to it. But the most striking difference is in the insertion. This in man is to- wards the posterior part of the eye, but in quadrupeds it is much farther fomards, as well as lower down. Usually it is attached between the lower and outer recti—its posterior border often reaching a little beneath the latter—and to the anterior third of the sclerotica, in some coming quite close to the margin of the cornea. In Birds, Reptiles, and Fishes, the superior oblique arises from the fore part of the orbit, and is precisely the counterpart of the inferior, which is disposed much as in the mammalia; and there is so little difference in their arrangement in these different classes of vertebrate animals that they scarcely require separate description in each. The two muscles arise together fi'om the fore part of the inner, or anterior, wall of the orbit. Passing outwards, they soon separate, the superior to be inserted near to the tendon of the upper rectus, the inferior to a corresponding point below; their direction to the axis of the eye being at rightON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, 10 angles, or more usually somewhat forwards. In birds, the superior oblique is much the largest muscle of the eye, being two or three times the size of the inferior, which is not much larger than one of the recti. It is broadest at the insertion, which is partly beneath the tendon of the superior rectus, reaching near, and sometimes up to, the outer border of that tendon; but the greater part is attached, on its inner side, at the upper part of the space between it and the internal rectus. The inferior oblique is inserted partly in front of the tendon of the lower rectus, and partly to its inner side, and is nearer to the cornea, or osseous zone, than the superior. The space between the eye and the two oblique muscles is occupied by a large branch of the fifth nerve and part of the Plarderian gland, which supports the eye on its lower and inner aspects. In the frog they seem not to pass so far outvYards. The superior is attached to the in- side of the tendon of the upper rectus, and is not larger than the inferior; and the two muscles meet the axis of the eye at right angles. But in fishes they pass further outwards—the superior in front of and over the tendon of the upper rectus, to be in- serted partly in front of it, and partly to its outer side ; and the inferior has a corresponding position and attachment below. They are directed somewhat forwards to the axis of the eye. In inferring the action of these muscles from their anatomy, it is essential to notice their direction with reference to the axis, and also whether they are attached before, behind, or at the middle of the eye. In man they are attached behind the middle, especially the inferior, and then- direction is backwards to the axis. In most mammals the superior oblique is not nearer to the front than the posterior part of the eye, but the inferior is rather nearer to the former, and both the muscles are of great breadth. In man the axes of the eyes are directed almost straightforward, but as we descend the scale of vertebrate animals, they become more and more turned outwards. Among mammals the direc- tion of the axes varies considerably. When they look much forwards-as, for instance, in the cat-the line of action of the oblique muscles is directed backwards, as in man. When the axes are turned quite outwards-as in the rabbit and hare, mIN MAN AND VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 11 which the axes of both eyes cannot possibly be directed to the same object—the oblique muscles are then directed forwards to the axis; but in most quadrupeds,—in which the eyes look for- wards and outwards (so that, if both eyes are used on one ob- ject, the visual axis cannot correspond to the axis of the eye),— they may be said to meet the axis at a right angle, as well as to embrace the middle of the eye. In birds, most reptiles, and in fishes, the eyes are placed so that the rays from one object can- not enter both pupils, and from this outward du'ection of the eyes the oblique muscles are cUrected. somewhat forwards to the axis, although often nearly at right angles. Also they are usually, in these classes, attached rather in front of the middle of the eye, although from their great breadth they embrace a consider- able part of it. Whilst I have described their direction in these classes, and in some mammals, as being rather forwards to the axes of the eyes, their actual direction in the orbits is backwards when the opposite sides are considered together; but in most mammals their course is nearly horizontal, and in some even a httle forwards in the orbits, at the same time that they are nearly at right angles to the axes of the eyes; so that one of their uses cannot be to advance the eyes, as has been supposed. As to their relative size. In the two lower classes of the ver- tebrata, the two oblique muscles are of nearly equal size, the in- ferior is, at least, not smaller than the superior, and they are larger than the straight muscles. In birds, while the inferior continues somewhat larger than one of the recti, the superior has undergone a great increase, being, as already stated, two or three times larger or broader than the inferior. Lastly, in mammals, the superior oblique undergoes a further development, at least in length, by its reflection over a pulley, after arising backwards from near the apex of the orbit. Notwithstanding this, it does not seem to be the more powerful of the two oblique muscles, as the inferior appears to contain more muscular substance, from its being broader and fleshy nearer to its insertion, and is besides situated so as to be capable of effecting a more extensive motion, at least of a lateral rotatoiy kind, than the superior. This is more the case in man than most quadrupeds, as in most of theii5 ON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, latter the superior lias tlie advantage of being fleshy beyond the pulley, which is tlien large and loose, so as not to confine the muscular fibres. The oblique muscles appear, also, to be more developed in most quadrupeds than in man, when compared with the straight muscles and with the size of the eye; but, on the other hand, in man the oblique muscles pass more round the eye, from which they would appear to gain an advantage, as regards turning the eye on its axis. Farther, the lesser development of the oblique muscles, compared with the recti, in mammals, than in the inferior classes, may perhaps be more correctly regarded as due to the increase of the recti in the former, in accordance with the greater frequency and extent of the movements of the eye, more especially in man, and also in other mammalia. USE OF THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. These observations may be regarded as affording just grounds from which to draw conclusions as to the use of the oblique muscles. Whatever minor differences they may present, they are evidently the same muscles, and provided for the same pui- pose in all vertebrate animals, and no hypothesis can be enter- tained if it is incompatible with, or not supported by, compara- tive anatomy. It has been a common opinion that the oblique muscles ad- Vance the eye, and act as antagonists to the recti, so as also to steady the eye during the action of the latter. To this it has been objected, that they exist in animals where the eye cannot be retracted, and that they are not proportionally increased "where a special retractor or suspensory muscle exists. To this it may be added, that they exist in man in whom retraction of the eye does not naturally occur as a voluntary movement (as is easily ascertained by experiment, the strongest voluntary effort to do so being fruitless), although, by the conjoint action of all the straight muscles, or of two opposite ones, such a move- ment would be produced; and in most mammals the course of the oblique muscles in the orbit is not sufficiently backwards to13 IN MAN AND VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. permit of their advancing the eye, which is probably accom- pHshed by the resilience of the soft parts, against which it has been drawn by the action of the suspensory muscle. It has also been held, that one use, at least of the oblique muscles, is to compress the eye laterally, so as—by rendering the cornea more convex, and by increasing the distance of the lens from the retina—to fit the eye for the vision of near objects. But, as this could be only a secondary use of these muscles, it may be observed, that, although both eyes usually converge equally when near objects are viewed, the effect would be liable to be produced unequally, and at times when it was not re- quired. Again, it has been supposed that the oblique muscles might act so as to turn the cornea inwards. It is not easy to see how, singly or combined, they could perform a rotatory movement of this nature, as this would require them to be attached consider- ably before the centre of the eye, and the internal rectus does not appear to stand more in need of assistance than any of its fellows. This opinion, however, has been brought by some to explain why the power of turning the eye inwards may remain after the internal rectus is divided, or believed to be so, in the operation for convergent sti-abismus; whilst others explain the same circumstance by supposing that the inner fibres of the upper and lower recti can act so as to invert the eye. Even those who believe that the power of turning the eye inwards may not be destroyed by division of the internal rectus, will admit that such is at least not usually the case, from which it may be in- ferred, that there is no muscle, or combination of muscles, by which inversion of the eye can be naturally performed after the internal rectus is divided; otherwise there is no reason why the power of inversion should not always remain. This I have never yet observed in any case where I felt satisfied that the muscle was wholly divided. When, any power of inversion re- mains, I regard it as indicating the necessity of searching for some part of the muscle which has escaped division, and I have not yet found it necessary to divide any other muscle, in whole or in part, in addition to the internal rectus, for the completeON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, 14 removal of convergent strabismus. The power of inversion re- turns, though to a lesser extent, after the muscle or tendon has re-adhei'ed to the sclerotica. The view most commonly entertained is, that each of the oblique muscles performs, or assists in performing, one or more of the diagonal movements of the eye, whereby the direction of its axis is changed. Acting singly, the superior has been variously held to turn the cornea downwards and inwards, and, again, downwards and outwards; and the inferior up- wards and outwards, and, again, upwards and inwards. The names of the most eminent of anatomists and physiologists are attached to these opposite views, although the more strongly supported view is, that each performs the latter of the two movements above assigned to it. Assuming the latter view to be correct,—namely, that by the superior the cornea is directed downwards and outwards, and upwards and inwards by the in- ferior,—Valentin has founded on it an ingenious theory, chiefly intended to give an explanation of the singular arrangement of the motor nerves of the orbit. But, irrespective of a variety of objections of another nature, which might be taken to this theory, it is enough to remark here, that it essentially rests on the ground that the oblique muscles are capable of performing the movements above attributed to them. This, indeed, they might possibly be believed to do in man, but it is at once evident, from a consideration of theu' comparative anatomy, that they could not perform these movements in animals; in which, not- withstanding, there is the same peculiar arrangement of the motor nerves. Indeed, there is no good reason to believe that any of the muscles of the eye, or their nei*ves, are more in- voluntary than the others, all being alike under that influence which maintains the harmony of the ocular movements; which are alike consensual whether the muscles employed be corre- sponding, or non-corresponding ones, on the opposite sides. The view that the oblique muscles are provided for the pur- pose of turning the eye on its antero-posterior axis, is not a new one. It was advocated, in 1759, by Porterfleld, and seems, from the remarks in his treatise on the eye, to have been theIN MAN AND VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 15 subject of discussion previous to that time, some having denied the existence of such a movement, as they could neither perceive its xitihty nor observe its occurrence. It was brought forward in 1786 by John Plunter, in a short paper on the use of the obhque muscles, among his observations on some parts of the animal oeconomy, in which he has endeavoured to explain the circumstances under which such a movement is necessary; and the same view is attributed to Dr Jacob, of Dublin, in the last edition of Quain's Anatomy.^ The view of Hunter is well ad- vocated by Dr G. Johnson, in the article " Orbit" in the Cyclo- pgedia of Anatomy and Physiology; and he adduces in support of it the result of experiments performed by him on a newly killed dog, from which it appeared that the contraction of the oblique muscles caused the eye to roll on its axis in opposite directions, without causing, in the slightest degree, any of the movements by which the direction of the axis is changed. The physiological uses of such a movement are not at first sight very apparent. In those lateral motions of the head, which take place between atlas and the axis, the eyes, in being kept fixed on an object previously viewed, are moved later- ally by the recti muscles; but, as Hunter explains, when it is moved laterally, as from shoulder to shoulder, rotatory motion of the eyes, on their antero-posterior axes, is also required, to prevent the picture from changing its place circularly on the re- tina. Thus, when the head is bent dovra towards the right shoulder, the right superior and the left inferior oblique will be in action. It is evident, under such circiunstances, when the head is twisted round on an axis more or less corresponding to that of the eye or eyes—that the latter must be rotated more or > Since the above appeared in the Journal, I have been favoured with a copy of Dr Jacob's very instructive paper "On Paralytic, Neuralg-ic, and other Nervous Dis- eases of the Eye," from the Dublin Evening Press, for January 6, 1841 on which I had been unable to lay my hands in Edinburgh. In support of his opinion that the function of the oblique muscles is to turn the eye on its antero-posterior axis Dr Jacob relates cases in which the action of the superior oblique was rendered' an parent, from the muscles supplied by the third and sixth nerves being paralysed It became evident when the patients were directed to look downwards, the motion b'einir a dehcate rotatory one, the eye being distinctly twisted on its axis. Dr Jacob also takes the same view as to the purely rotatory nature of the various movements of16 ON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, less directly on their axes, and in a contrary direction, other- wise tlie picture of the object would change its place circularly on the retina. This motion will be more or less combined with those performed by the straight muscles, according as the axis of motion of the head corresponds more or less to that of the eyes; and it may be that the oblique muscles, from their not exactly embracing the middle of the eye transversely, are intended also, and at the same time, to turn the axis of the eye, so as to change, to a certain extent, its direction. It would appear, therefore,—as it is essential to the correct viewing of an object when the head is being moved, that the picture fall in all re- spects on the same part of the retina,—that a more or less direct movement of rotation on the antero-posterior axis is neces- sary; and it may be added, that the nature of this movement— as it causes little or no change in the direction of the eye— together with the circumstances under which it takes place, are such as not to render its occurrence evident to an observer. The circumstances under which this movement would be re- quired in those animals in which the eyes are placed in the side of the head, and look outwards, are different; as, in the simple movement of raising or depressing the head, the latter moves more on an axis corresponding to that of the eyes, so as to render a more direct lateral rotatory motion necessary, in order to prevent the image ft'om changing its place circularly on the retina. In these animals, it is doubtful if the eyes, which can- not be directed together to the same object, are moved simul- taneously; but if so, the corresponding oblique muscles will be employed at the same time on opposite sides, whereas, in the circumstances explained by Hunter, the superior oblique of the one side would be in action along with the inferior of the other. These, however, are so far only theoretical considerations, and do not affect the conclusion to which comparative anatomy points, that the oblique muscles—whatever minor differences may obtain as to" their arrangement in different vertebrate ani- mals—are, in all, not only capable of performing this move- ment in opposite directions, but are evidently intended for doing so.17 IN MAN AND \TERTEBRATE ANIMALS. It would thus appear, that, while comparative anatomy is irreconcilable with all the other theories above alluded to, it affords strong confirmation of the view that the oblique muscles are specially provided for turning the eye, more or less directly, on its antero-posterior axis. BIII. TWO CASES OF DOUBLE STOMACH IN MAN; WITH OBSERYATIONS OJf THAT COroiTIOK FROM THE MONTHLY JOCRNAL OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, FBBE0A.BT 1861. On opening the abdominal cavity of a middle-aged female sub- ject, at lecture during tbe winter session 1847-48, my attention was attracted by an unusual appearance of the stomach. It seemed contracted in the middle, and on distension it became evident that the stomach consisted of two sacs, connected to- gether by a narrow communication. The woodcut. Fig. 1, will convey a better idea of its form than could be done by detailed description. The communicating passage is just large enough to allow the forefinger to psiss with ease, and the length of the constricted portion is about half an inch. On turning the stomach inside out, the mucous membrane is seen to be smoothly continuous from one cavity to the other; and, whether in the collapsed or distended state, there is no appearance of a valvular fold or thickening of the coats in the contracted part, or where it opens into either sac. The left division is fully one-third more capa- cious than the other, and forms a large cul-de-sac projecting in front of the oesophagus, which enters towards the upper and back part. In the sketch, which presents an anterior view, the left division is represented as twisted forwards, so as to show the place of entrance of the oesophagus, the lower part of which is20 ON DOUBLE STOMACH. naturally concealed by the prominence there appearing to lie to its left side; and this rounded prominence seems naturally to have been received into the concavity of the lesser curvature of the pyloric sac. The right or pyloric division corresponds very much to the narrow elongated form of stomach which we some- times see, and is not much less than some adult entire stomachs of that form. The two sacs are together much more capacious than any large single stomach that I have seen. In the sketch, a small part of the duodenum is represented beyond the pylorus, the valve of which is fully formed. About three inches to the cardiac side of the pylorus will be observed a slight constriction, especially marked on the greater curvature. This corresponds to the slight constriction which usually, or at least frequently, exists at this part of the stomach. Instead of agreeing with me in regarding this case as one of true or congenital bilocular stomach, some may suppose that this state of parts may possibly have resulted from morbid action. On the one hand, that the second sac was merely a dilated por- tion of the duodenum, due to a partial constriction beyond, whilst the constricted part between the two sacs corresponded to or was the original pylorus. Or again, that the constriction was of the nature of a morbid contraction or stricture on an originally single sac. These suppositions, however, are incompatible with the facts of the existence at the right extremity of the second sac of neither more nor less than the natural pyloric thickening and projection, and the entu-e absence of thickening or puckering at or near the narrow part between the two sacs, as well as the absence of the least trace of old or recent disease on any part or surface of the preparation. Death in this case had resulted from typhus fever, and I was tmable to obtain any previous history. In my museum there is a dried preparation showing a similar peculiarity in the form of the human stomach, of which Fig. 2 is a sketch:— This preparation originally belonged to Dr Knox. For the only information I can furnish regarding it I am indebted to Dr Lonsdale of Carlisle, formerly assistant and successor to DrON DOUBLE STOMACH. 21 Knox, who writes to me that it was simply a dissecting-room preparation, without, so far as he is aware, any previous history. Here, but for the constricted portion, there is less departure from the usual form of the stomach than in the former case, and in capacity the two sacs do not exceed a good sized simple stomach. The pyloric division is in this case proportionally smaller than tha^ of the one first described, and terminates more abruptly at the pylorus, which is seen as a well-formed nearly cu'cvdar projection in the interior. On cutting into the sacs on either side of this constriction, there is no appearance of thicken- ing or valvular projection. The orifices are smooth, and now scarcely of sufficient size to receive the little finger. On the posterior surface of the cardiac division, between two and three inches to the left of the constricted part, there is an irregular patch of thickening larger than a shilling, as if the wall had been thickened and adherent at this part. Although this thickening appears to be of pathological origin, it has no connection with the constricted part, which appears to be quite natural or healthy, as in the case just recorded. The occurrence of a contraction about the middle of the stomach has been noticed by various anatomists. Morgagni,^ in relatmg the post-mortem examination of a lady who had for many years been troubled with frequent vomiting, states that " the stomach was contracted, and near the antrum pylori the contraction was so much greater than in other parts, that the viscus appeared as if it had been divided into two cavities." After ascribing the symptoms in this case to other conditions, he goes on to say, "1 might have supposed that the contracted state of the stomach had some influence in producing this affec- tion had I not observed the same structure in other women, who had not been subject to vomiting. Similar contractions, too, have been discovered by other anatomists in persons of both sexes; and sometimes the aperture of communication between the two portions of the stomach was exceedingly small. Doubt- less in the preceding case the contraction was congenital." w' n''^^^^*T^°^ Diseases investigated by Anatomy, 1779. Edition bv W. Cooke. London, 1822. 'ON DOUBLE STOMACH. 22 Morgagni again refers in tlie same work to this condition, as having been noticed in several of his dissections, and observes tliat " the aperture of communication between the two portions of the stomach was scarcely larger than the natural extent of the pylorus." On tliis the editor remarks, in a note, " central con- traction of the stomach is often met with; but, in general, it appears to be a temporary affection. In all the instances which have occuiTed to me, it was instantly removed by inflation. Sometimes, however, it is permanent; and the aperture between the two portions has been found by others as small as Morgagni has represented it above. Sir E. Home and Dr Monro have described this morbid appearance. In the Medico-Chirurgical Journal for January 1816, Dr Palmer has related a case in which the contraction was as perfect as if a tight ligature had been applied, and great difficulty was found in passing the little finger through the narrow ring which separated the car- diac and pyloric portions. The inner coat seemed healthy, ex- cept at the strictttred part where the coats were thickened; and adjacent to it there were some spots resembling minute granula- tions." Dr Monro^ states that a contraction in the middle of the stomach has been described by Blasius, Lorry, "Walter, Hufeland, and Van der Kolk, and he also notices the cases described by Morffacrni. The constrictions here referred to by Dr Monro appear to have been chiefly spasmodic, and to have cUsappeared soon after death or on distension, since he refers, as a con- trast, to one case of permanent contraction in a preparation before him, but the constriction was not greater than to give the ap- pearance as if a cord had been " tied very slightly around the stomach." Sir E. Home has paid particular attention to this subject, having written several papers on the structure and form of the stomach in various animals and in man. In one of these^ he expresses the opinion that the human stomach is divided by a muscular contraction into a cardiac and pyloric portion; that 1 Morbid Anatomy of the Humaa Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines. 1811. 2 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, 1807, pp. 170,171.Descriptive Anatomy, 1841, vol. i. p. 467. / ON DOUBLE STOMACH. 25 this contraction is the result of the natural action of the organ in digestion, and disappears soon after death; so that unless the body be examined within twenty-four hours the contraction will not be seen. In connection with this he gives a representation (Plate XI.) of the figure of the stomach in this condition, in which the contraction is moderate and gradual, leaving between it and the pylorus about a fifth part of the length of the o)'gan. In a subsequent paper^ the same author relates a case in which, by a morbid contraction near its middle, the stomach was as completely divided as in the two cases I have related. In the drawing illustrating this case, the constricted portion has not a diseased appearance, but the contraction is described as morbid, and it is supposed that the morbid action had ensued in the part at which the physiological contractions had formerly taken place. In describing the form and curvatui'es of the stomach, E. Huschke observes: ^ " Home admits, as in the stomach of the rodentia, a contraction towards the pylorus; this constriction does not always exist, and when it is present, distension with air sometimes removes and sometimes leaves it. In the first case, it arises from spasm of the muscular coat which existed during life; in the second, it is due to a contraction of all the coats of the viscus." M, Cruveilhier remarks on this subject :^—" The examples of double or triple stomachs in the human subject are merely cases of single stomachs having one or more circular constrictions. The essential character of a double stomach is not an accidental or even a congenital contraction, but a difference in structure. Bilocular stomachs, indeed, are very common; but this form (re- sembling that of some kind of calabash-gourds), though some- times extremely well-marked when the stomach is empty, disap- pears almost when it is much distended by inflation." From the consideration of these various statements and opinions regarding constricted or double stomach, it appeai-s that the con- dition chiefly referred to is that of a moderate constriction, which > Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, 1817, pp. 350 361 ^ Encyclopddle Anatomique, 1845, tome v., Splanchnologie, p. 46.24 ON DOUBLE STOMACH. disappears soon after death or on distension. In a few of the cases, however, the constriction has evidently been permanent, though the want of precision in the descriptions leaves it doubt- ful whether the constriction was moderate or deep. In Sir E. Home's case the constriction was deep, but was regarded by him as morbid. In Dr Palmer's case, the communicating passage •was very narrow, but there seems to have been thickening of the coats, and ulceration of the lining membrane at this part. It may therefore be concluded that there have been very few if indeed any instances placed on record in which the stomach was so deeply and permanently divided, independent of disease, as in the two cases I have had the opportunity of recording. An analogy may be drawn between this condition of the human stomach, and that more especially of some rodent ani- mals ; but only in so far that there are two cavities separated by a constriction, varying in position and extent in different genera; in other respects, as regards form, position of orifices, and struc- ture of the lining membrane, there is no correspondence. In re- gard to the latter point, I speak only from the appearances pre- sented to the naked eye, the specimen in the case first related having been too old for miscroscopic examination; but the lining membrane of both cavities presents the same appearance, and the thickness of the walls was the same in both and at the constric- tion. M. Cruveilhier would regard a difference in structure as essential to constitute the case one of " double stomach." But,—. whilst in animals in which the stomach consists of more than one cavity, there is a difference in structure in accordance with their habits and the stages of their digestive process,—I should rather expect, in the case of a division of the human stomach into two parts, not to find any difference in their lining membrane, greater at least than that which normally obtains in the microscopic struc- ture of the cardiac and pyloric portions. Independent of the condition of true or permanent constric- tion, the preceding notice of the history of this subject brings out prominently the circumstance of the occasional or frequent existence of a temporary constriction, which is worthy of notice in connection with the physiology of the stomach.ON DOUBLE STOMACH. 25 Sil- E. Home is of opinion that tliis is the natiiral condition of the organ during digestion, the constriction serving the purpose of retaining the food in the cardiac division iintil it be prepared for farther change in the pyloric. He admits, however, that the circuLar musculai- fibres are in no way more developed at any- particular part, which we would rather expect to find were this a regularly recurring condition. In support of this view he states that he has seen a similar temporary constriction on the stomachs of some animals in which the organ is naturally simple, when the examination was made soon after death. In connec- tion with this may be mentioned the observation made in regard to contraction of the stomach in the weU-known case of St Mar- tin. It is described as contracted about four inches from the pylorus, so that a tube introduced by the fistulous aperture was first resisted at this part, and, having passed the contraction, was tben grasped and drawn on by the action of the parietes beyond. From the description given, however, it does not appear whether there was really an hour-glass contraction, as supposed, at this pai't, or whether the whole of the pyloric portion M'as not also in a contracted condition. The question as to whether the stomach is naturally and peri- odically constricted so as partially to divide it into two cavities during digestion, is worthy of being inquired into. In doing so, it must not be forgotten that the constriction will not be appa- rent imder all circumstances;—that it will be noticed especially when death has taken place during or soon after digestion; that too rapid or forcible distension may at once destroy it; and that it cannot be noticed unless the body be examined soon after death. [Note.—iWarc/t 1854.—Since the above paper was written, I have met with a considerable number of instances of temporary constriction, and I add this note chiefly to correct the natural supposition that it will disappear soon after death. In all the cases I have seen, the contraction was to the right or pyloric side of the middle of the stomach, usually about four or five mches from the pylorus. I have made notes of a few of the26 ON DOUBLE STOMACH. cases. In one, the stomach was examined the day after death. The contraction was considerable, and resisted moderate disten. sion -with air, although tried several times for several days after death, when on being forcibly distended with a large blow-pipe it yielded, and there is now no mark of constriction on this stomach. ^ In other two, the abdomen was not opened till nearly a fort- night after death, and the constrictions were well marked; in one, so much, that it at first resembled the pylorus, the portion of stomach beyond being intestiniform, and moderate distension did not remove the contraction. In another instance, which oc- curred during the present session, there was a considerable con- traction in the same situation, which still remained strongly marked although forcible distension was made, and this appeared to be the true form of the orsan. But, in most of the cases I have seen, the contraction entirely disappeared when the stomach was distended with the blow-pipe. The contraction is seen on the empty stomach, still better when it is moderately and gently filled with air, and then yields when forcible distension is made. In all the cases it was not a sharp constriction, but a gradual contraction. Although, at the same time, especially in some of the instances, deeply marked. Although it may be coiTect to say, that this temporary and partial division of the stomach is frequently met with, I have no hesitation in saying that, whether in bodies examined early or late after death, it is the exception and not the rule. It appears reasonable to suppose that, the contraction being originally mus- culai", its existence will be influenced by the length of time be- tween the last digestion and death. The occurrence of death during or soon after digestion, would account for the occasional presence of the contraction, death having overtaken the stomach in this condition; whilst the more frequent opposite circumstances of death would coi'respond to its usual absence. It is possible that this may be the natural condition of the stomach during digestion, but facts are yet wanting to entitle us to ch'aw the in- ference that it is very probably so, and we also recur to the fact, that there is no special development of the circulai- fibres at this or any part, until we come to the pylorus.]IV. ON THE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. FROM THE MONTHLT JOUBNAL OS MEDICAL SCIENCE, 1852. Although it may be said that we are now pretty intimately acquainted with the functions of these nerves, there are, not- withstanding, points about each class which are either not fully understood, or not generally agreed upon. Such are,—the rela- tion between the motor nerves at their origin, and the meaning of their singular distribution amonai; the muscles of the orbit as connected with the movements of the eyeballs,—the relation which the fifth pah' bears to the motor nerves and the muscles of the eye, and the influence whicli it exerts over the parts sub- servient to the function of the proper nerve of vision,'—^^the nature of certain supposed varieties in the connections of the ciliary ganglion,—and also the remarkable influence which the sympathetic in the neck appears to exert on the eyeball and on the actions of tlie iris. In now proceeding with this inquiry, I shaU bring to bear upon it the results of a large number of dis- sections I have made with a special view to the elucidation of the above points; which, together with the careful consideration I have given to what has been written on the subject, may enable me to speak with some confidence when considering the views of others.28 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. PART I.—ON THE MOTOR NERVES. The questions I propose to consider concerning the motor nerves are—1. Their cerebral connection; 2. Their relative dis- tribution, as connected with the movements of the eyeballs; and, 3. Their connections, in the cavernous sinus and orbit, with the fifth or common sensory nerve, and with the sympathetic. ORIGINS OF THE MOTOR NERVES. Third, Fourth, and Sixth Nerves.—In looking to the origins of these three motor oculi nerves, we are struck, in the first place, with the fact, that they are connected with very difierent parts of the brain. But some anatomists hold this to be only apparent, the true origins being deeper, and such as to establish a relation between them. I shall now examine briefly into the opinions of different anatomists on this point. The FOURTH nerve is usually said to arise from the upper part of the valve of Vieussens. Valentin^ describes it as arising partly from the testis, and partly from the valve of Vieussens. Cruveilhier^ says,—by one or several roots below the corpora quadrigemina, on each side of the valve of Vieussens; and, after alluding to the supposition that some of the fibres come from the cerebellum, and that others arise much deeper than the aj)parent origin, he adds, " all that can be seen is, that these nerves arise from the valve of Vieussens; and he farther states, that, "the nerves of the two sides are often united by some white streaks which form a transverse commissm-e." This nerve is believed by some to be derived from a tract of fibres which may be traced up firom the olivary body of the medulla oblongata, to ijelow the corpora quadrigemina. Dr John Eeid^ describes this tract very clearly as a motor one, and assigns this as the I Encyclop^die Anatomique. Ndvrologie. Tome iv. p. 257. G. Valentin, 1843. Descriptive Anatomy. 1841. Vol. ii. p. 1099. 3 Physiological, Anatomical, and Pathological Researches. 1841, P. 305.ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 29 source of the fourth nerve. Tracing this tract upwards, he finds it to be connected with the anterior or motor roots of the upper cervical nerves, with the ninth, the sixth, the portio dura of the seventh, and the motor portion of the fifth, and, lastly, " the trochleator nerve is attached to the internal margin of the same band of fibres when it has ascended the processus a cerebello ad testes, and is about to enter the optic lobes." The same view as to the som'ce of the fourth nerve is taken by Longet.^ He traces part of the antero-lateral column of the cord up as a motor tract, to beneath the corpora quadi^igemina, and assigns this as the source of the fourth nerve just before the tract enters beneath the.testes; and he adds, "this nerve then, like the other motor oculi nerves, has an origin corresponding to its uses." Mr Solly, in his last edition,^ admits the correctness of Dr Eeid's description of the olivary tract, and the apparent connection of the foiu'th nerve with it. He adds (p. 294), "The fourth pair of nerves at their origin are connected together by a distinct commissure, more evident in some brains than in others." As to this supposed source of the fourth nerve, I shall only observe at present, that however clearly the olivary tract may have been traced up to the neighbourhood of its origin, yet no direct con- tinuity has, apparently, been observed between the tract and the roots of the nerve. Owing to the difficulty of clearing away all the pia mater without tearing off the nerve, the examination of the origin of the fourth nerve is a matter of some delicacy. It presents various appearances. Sometimes it seems in part to come out as if deeply from the testis or posterior quadrigeminal body. Sometimes it appears more to plunge down through either the middle or inter- nal part of the processus a cerebello, a little way behind the testis; and generally, if not always more or less, it appears to pass across the upper part of the valve of Vieussens, and, joining with its fellow of the opposite side, gives rise to the appeai'ance of a commissure. This apparent commissm-e has not been gene- rally described in anatomical works, but has been noticed, in the ' Anatomie et Physiologie du Systfeme Nerveux. 18i2. Tome ii. p. 392 ' The Human Brain. 1847. 'ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 30 terms already quoted, by M. Cruveilliier and Mi- Solly. It Is like wise, mentioned in Quain's Anatomy^ that "the roots of the nerves of opposite sides are connected together across the middle line, in the form of a white band or commissure in the substance of tlie velum." This is a point in the anatomy of the fourth nerve which, I believe, deserves more notice than it has hitherto received. My attention was drawn to it first in 1844 from the distinctness with which I found it in some animals. It is seen usually as a distinct white band between the fourth nerves, cross- ing the valve of Vieussens close behind the testes, but still distinct from them. This connection seems to have given rise to the common method of assigning the valve as the origin of the fourth nerve, which seems to me, strictly speaking, not to be correct. But it is necessary first to understand the nature of this so-called valve of Vieussens. This thin velum is formed primarily and below of the lining membrane of the fom'th ventricle, the fore part of the roof of which it forms. In some animals it is seen to consist of nothing else until we come to the commissure of the fourth nerves, but in the human brain there is, as it were, spread on the serous membrane, a thin layer of white nervous matter, overlapped behind by the grey matter of some of the small median laminte of the cerebellum. The fibres are seen to be arranged longitudinally, and it tears in this direction when it has been hai'dened in alcohol. These fibres, then, have the same direction as those of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, the space between which they fill up. Now, over and in front of these are added transverse fibres, gathered into a white flattened bundle, from which the fourth nerves appear more or less to arise, and forming what we shall call the commissure of the fourth pair of nerves. I have notes of the appearance of this commissure, from examinations made at the time above referred to, in the sheep, calf, and horse, and have seen it, I think I am correct in saying, in every brain I have since examined, whether human or among the larger of the lower animals. In the sheep, the testes, wliich are apart about a quarter of an inch, are joined by a white com- missure, and behind this, and separated from it by a clear space, 1 Fifth Edition. 1846. P. 747.ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 31 is the commissure, a line in breadth and two or three lines across, into which the fourth nerve runs on each side ; and behind this the valve is again only clear serous membrane. Notwithstanding, the fourth nerve appears to arise also in part as if from the testis, and part of this commissure seems to be merely a crossing from one peduncle to the other, the whole seeming too large to pass entirely into the fourth nerve, although this may be due to its being flattened out upon the valve. On examining these parts recently in the cat, the commissure was seen to be very distinct. The fourth nerves adhere intimately to the lower and back part of the testes, and then run across into the commissure, which may be compared to the optic commissure in form, only the nerves here are more divergent in front. Two bands run into the centre of it behind, one from each peduncle ; there then appears to be a union and crossing, and from this, at least the greater part of the foiu'th nerves passes oflF on each side. I have just examined these parts in the human brain in two recent specimens, hardened and prepared on pui-pose. In one, the fourth nerve comes by one filament from the tipper part of the superior cerebellar pe- duncle; another comes out of the base of the testis, running backwai'ds and outwards to join the others; and a third, the smallest of the three, evidently comes out of the well-marked commissure. The commissure is a line in breadth, the same distance behind the testes, and three lines across. It connects the upper end of the peduncles, the internal fibres of which seem to run into it, and it seems to contain more fibres than run out fi-om it into the fom*th nerves. The longitudinal arrangement of the medullary fibres of the valve is very distinct. They ap- pear not to run into the fourth nerves, or into the commissm-e, but pass underneath the latter, and, collected together, mount up along the groove between the testes, and spread out on these and on the nates. On turning round the preparation, the com- missure is scarcely visible, owing to the fibres of the valve passing underneath it as above noticed. In the other preparation, the longitudinal fibres of the valve partly pass beneath the commissure, but chiefly turn to each side behind the commissm-e, cross over the peduncle, just behind the fourth nerve, as a distinct band,32 ON THE NEliVES OF THE ORBIT. and disappear beneath the great crus cerebelli, so as to enter deeply the back part of the pons. In this preparation the largest root of the fourth nerve comes out of the commissure. Now, in neither of these do the fibres of the valve appear to run into the fourth nerves or their commissure, but the latter seems to be de- rived entirely from the upper part of the peduncle. These observations appear sufficient to show that the fourth nerve is in part derived from the opposite side, and this nerve may, therefore, be regarded as composed of a decussated and a non-decussated portion. I have no theory to connect with this commissure, but dwell upon it merely as a point in anatomy which does not seem previously to have attracted much notice, or to have been. understood in the light of a distinct decussa- tion ; and this, it may be observed, still leaves open the question as to the real origin or source of the fibres of the fourth pair of nerves. The THIED nerve appears at the inner and back part of the crus cerebri, at about a quarter of an inch in front of the deeper part of the pons. Very various accoixnts are given of its deeper connections. Longet^ describes the fibres as diverging in the crus, to enter the locus niger, and be continuous with its lower fibres continued on fr'om the antero-lateral column of the cord. He disputes the view of Zinn, that some of fibres may be traced to the anterior commissure, and also the older view of Varolius, Vicq-d'Azyr, and Vieussens, that the third pair of nerves become united together, a supposed union to which they attributed the simultaneous action of corresponding branches of this nerve. Cruveilhier^ traces the fibres through the inner part of the crus, diverging as far as to the pons, not farther; but he has not found any of it to come from the locus niger of the eras. Valentin^ give a very minute account of the origin of this nerve. He traces the fibres deeply, radiating to the nates, the superior pe- duncles of the cerebellum a little below the valve of Vieussens, the deep and superficial longitudinal fibres of the pons, the cms cerebri, and especially the locus niger of the latter. In one . Op. cit. Tonne ii. p. 378. ' Op. cit. P. 1098. » Op. cit. P. 257.33 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. instance the fibres towards the cerebellar peduncles could be ti-aced, he states, into the interior of the cerebellum. Farther, Valentin, with characteristic minuteness, describes (p. 278) an arrangement of the fasciculi, as if this nerve consist- ed of two distinct roots or parts where it issues from the cms,— an internal portion (" pai's interna"), fonned by anterior as well as posterior fasciculi, and an external portion (" pars externa"), from the inferior and internal parts of the crus, which converges on the outside of the other. The latter description appears t o be correct enough, but still without authorising the inference that there are two roots physiologically distinct. The external portion arises only a very little higher up, as the brain lies for dissection, and, as it were, natiu^ally so, from the manner in which the nerve comes out, and then abruptly winds round the inside of the crus. On carefully separating the fasciculi of each por- tion, I found, in one brain, the outer portion to consist of eight or nine fasciculi, and the internal portion of nineteen. In an- other, the outer portion contained fifteen fasciculi, and the inner portion eighteen or nineteen. The smaller part lies at first be- tween the greater portion and the crus, but the fasciculi of the two portions very soon unite and interlace. In fact there is no arrangement such as would have suggested to rhe that there were to this nerve two distinct roots, worthy of being so named and described ; and I have noticed it only as Valentin has connected it with his view, founded on the result of his experiments on rabbits, that tlie third nerve is sensory as well as motor, from its origin. Of the deeper connections of the third nerve, Swan^ observes, that " its origin may be traced in the direction towards that of the superior oblique oculo-muscular nerve." Mr Solly^ again states, that " it will be found not merely to be connected with the surftice of the crus cerebri, but dipping beneath it, and there dividing into two portions;—one of these ascends through the pons Varolii to be connected with the motor tract in its passage through that commissure; the other passes through the locus I A Demonstration of the Nerves of the Human Body. 1830 P 19 ' Op. cit., p. 293. ■ ■ 034 ON THE KERVES OP THE ORBIT. niger, and splits in five or six white threads, which, separated by the grey neurine, present a beautiful appearance in a fresh brain." He then traces these filaments through the grey matter to be connected (so far as I can understand, after comparing pages 234, 264, and 294) with some fibres, which pass downwards and forwards to the crus cerebri, fi-om the deeper pai-t of the supe- rior peduncle of the cerebellum. Mr Solly seems to regard the tliird nerve as intimately related to the grey matter of the crus, as, although he also here speaks of the distant radiation of its fibres through and beyond it, he remarks (p. 234), in speaking of this grey matter,—" This has been called the locus niger; I would rather designate it the ganglion of the third pair of nerves." The origin of the sixth nerve is, as usually given, from the upper end of the antei'ior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, or from the groove or the pons immediately in front of this, or firom both; usually by a couple of roots. The more modern anato- mists have failed to trace this nerve to a deeper origin. It is usually regarded as satisfactoiy that it is seen to emerge from a connection with what is regarded as a motor tract. The preceding references and observations wdll, I think, make it evident that we really know very little about the deep connections or true origins of the three motor nerves of the eye; and it may likewise be doubted whether there is really anything either of truth or value in the view that these nerves are con- nected or related to each other by their deeper attachments. It has perhaps been too customary to regard tracts or columns, from which certain nerves issue, as necessarily having the same function as these nerves, and as in reality sending out the fibres which compose them ; but now that the important physiological distinction between the grey and the white nervous matters is better understood, it may appear less bold to question the cor- rectness of these inferences. The various tracts of white mat- ter which compose the bulk of the medulla oblongata may be regarded as in great part simply passing through it, from the grey matter of various parts of the cerebrum and cerebellum above, to various parts of the grey matter of the cord below, or vice versa—commissural in their nature, and not necessarily contri-ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 35 buting any of the fibres which compose the various nerves, cere- bral or spinal. And again, the various nerves which seem to arise from these tracts in their course may be regarded as merely coming out through these tracts from certain points of grey mat- ter. We cannot be fully satisfied with tracing a nerve to, or into, a tract—the tract itself must have an origin ; but, although the association carries a certain weight with it, we must be able to follow the nerve down or into its grey matter, until we can say, physiologically speaking, that we have done with it and got it to its real origin. Thus, we are not contented with tracing the vagus nerve to the tract which occupies the side of the me- dulla, between the olivary and restiform bodies, but we follow it down through this to the grey matter on the back of the me- dulla, with which it is known to be connected. Now, even granting that the anterior pyramidal and olivary columns together form the great motor tract of the medulla, and that the motor nerves of the eye can be traced towards the up- wai'd continuations of tliis column, it does not therefore follow that we have ascertained the true origins of these nerves. Nor, even supposing the view just questioned to be correct, does it foUow that the tracing of the three motor oculi nerves towards these tracts thereby establishes a special relation between them, or entitles us to conclude that, however distant their apparent origin, their true origins are the same; for the same line of argument would apply also to the other motor cerebral nerves. If the third is connected with the same column as the sixth, so also is the ninth or motor linguEe; and if the fourth comes out from the olivary tract, so also do the portio-dura of the seventh pair, and the motor portion of the fifth,—the motor nerves of expression and mastication. Of the origins of the'fourth and sixth nerves, then, we know nothing except the places of their apparent origin; and of the fourth also, that part of its fibres are derived from the opposite side. Beyond this, we can only suggest the probability that their fibres are connected with the grey matter in the neigh- bourhood of their apparent origin. The third nerve can be traced a little deeper than its apparent origin; but anatomistsON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. 36 1 Op. cit., p. 296. are not agreed as to the extent or exact direction of the deeper radiating fibres, and we cannot say where these radiating fibres really begin. It may be doubted that they can be traced farther backwards than the crus cerebri; and when they are spoken of as going nearly as far as the quadrigeminal bodies, it must be recollected that these bodies lie on the upper and back part of the crus itself, the nates being directly above the origin of the third nerve, and at a distance only of from half to three quarters of an inch. Of the third nerve, then, we can only say, that it arises from the crus cerebri, the fibi'es being probably de- rived partly from the grey matter collected in the locus niger, and partly from some more deeply-seated grey matter in the crus. The endeavour to trace the motor nerves of the eye to the same cerebral connection, must be therefore held to have failed; and I cannot therefore agree on this point with Mr Solly, who seems to hold that especially the third and sixth nerves have some intimate relation to each other. Of the latter,^ he observes, •—" This nerve, let it be remembered, in a physiological point of view, is merely a portion of the third, its separation fi.'om which by the pons Varolii is perfectly analogous to the separation of the roots of the spinal nerves by a blood-vessel running between them, and of no greater physiological importance." And again (p. 285), he suggests that, physiologically, it would be more cor- rect " to consider the third pair and the sixth as merely separate roots of the same nerve, and to describe the two together by the name of the common oculo-muscular: for the circumstance of the commissure of the cerebellum separating their roots is merely accidental to their arrangement, in a physiological point of view; but the fact of their being described as if they were distinct nerves, has frequently led the student to believe that they must be endowed with distinct offices, and wonder why the abductor muscle of the eye should be supphed by a peculiar nerve, while the other muscles, with the exception of the superior oblique, receive their supply from the same source." Should it be deemed necessary farther to show the incorrect-ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 37 ness of the inference from such methods of description, it may be observed that, in the lower animals, these nerves are always distinct, and have the same peculiar and distant connections with the brain. In the mammalia, in which the pons Varolii is much smaller than in man, the sixth and third nerves still keep their distance from each other, not by any means coming nearer and nearer as the pons is less and less developed; and in birds, in which there is no pons, these nerves are still quite distinct, and do not arise proportionally at less distances from each other than they do in the human brain. We therefore retain the observation that it is very remarkable that the motor nerves of the eye should be connected with so widely different parts of the brain; and further, that while the common motor oculi nerve arises as near as possible to its distri- bution, the other two nerves, which supply each a separate muscle, come from very different and distant parts. DISTRIBUTION OF THE MOTOR NERVES, AND MOVEMENTS OF THE EYEBALLS. That there is a meaning in the peculiar distribution of these nerves among the muscles of the orbit, cannot be doubted. It is singular and constant, and is found to be the same in all verte- brate animals. This is stated by writers on comparative anatomy, and I have always found it so. The foui'th nerve is never dis- tributed to any muscle but the superior oblique, and to this muscle it always goes, although the muscle has a very different position in the three lower classes of vertebrate animals. But the sixth nerve in most mammals, and in birds, supplies addi- tional muscles; in the latter, the muscles which move the third eyelid, and in the former, the retractor or suspensory muscle of the eye. When this muscle is single, a single division of the sixth nerve enters it; when it consists of four separate slips, inter- mediate to the recti, two or three delicate filaments leave the sixth to supply them. It is worthy of remark, that the part of the nerve which goes to the retractor muscle is less than a third38 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. of tlie -wLole trunk, whilst the bulk of the muscle is usually much greater than that of the external rectus.^ In inquiring into the function of these nerves in connection with the motions of the eyeballs, it is necessary in the first place that we determine upon the action of the muscles which they supply. About the actions of the recti muscles there can be no doubt or obscurity, providing it be granted, first, that each turns the eye in its own direction, and, secondly, what is equally evident, that two neighbouring recti turn the eye diagonally between them; and that thus all the diagonal as well as the direct move- ments are performed; a view which would never have been doubted but for the apparent necessity of discovering some use for the oblique muscles. And as to the oblique muscles, I think, from what is stated in my paper on this subject, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion,—in accordance with a view which is older even than the time of John Hunter, who specially sup- ported it, notvnthstanding \A'hich it had again fallen into disre- pute,—that the use of these two muscles is to perform lateral rotation, i. <?., to roll the eye on its antero-posterior axis. This becomes still more evident wheii we descend below the mammalia, when the superior oblique is seen to be no longer reflected over a pulley, but lies at the fore part of the orbit, simply as the counterpart of the inferior; and it is at once evident, not only that these two transverse muscles pull the eye round about on its axis, but also that they cannot act so as to change the direc- tion of the axis, so as to assist or partly supplant the recti in the manner in which they are commonly supposed to do so in man. It is likewise, I think, made evident that such a motion of the eye, as Hunter supposed, is necessary, during the side incUnation of the head, to prevent the impression of the object changing its place circularly on the retina. It is possible that, from the slight variations they present, in their point of attachment and in their direction to the axis of the eye, in different animals, they may associate their rotatory movement with a slight change in the direction of the axis. As to this I cannot speak positively, but I 1 See note, p. GO.39 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. hold tliat, whatever minor actions they may or may not. have, the action of these muscles is to rotate the eye on its axis; that, in short, this is the purpose for which they are provided. I arrived at this conclusion chiefly from the consideration of their comparative anatomy, and since then, I find additional evidence of the correctness of this view from the writings of Jacob and Longet, without reference to comparative anatomy, which are deserving of notice here also from their beariiag on the subject of pai-alysis of the motor nerves of the eye. Dr J acob, in a very instractive paper on the muscles and nerves of the eye,i observes, " The two oblique muscles, not running from the inside of the orbit directly oiTtward, but inclining backward, until they become attached to the posterior part of the eye, not only cause the sphere to revolve on its longitudinal axis, but probably change the direction of that axis; the inferior directing the cornea per- haps a little upward and inward, and the superior a little down- ward and outward. I have, however, great doubts as to the actual production of this effect. That the inferior oblique causes the eye-ball to revolve round its longitudinal axis, may fairly be inferred from its attachments, but that it alters the direction of that axis in any considerable degree, cannot be so easily admitted. We cannot observe the action of this muscle distinct from that of the others, but we can that of the superior oblique. In cases of paralysis of the three straight muscles, the inferior oblique, and the elevator of the upper lid, from disease affecting the third pair of nerves, the action of the abductor supplied by the sixth, nerve, and of the superior oblique supplied by the fourth, remains unimpaired. The patient, unable to raise, depress, or turn in the eye, or elevate the upper lid, turns it out as effectually as ever, when directed to do so; and when directed to look down- ward, the action of the superior oblique is clearly distinguished. It is a delicate rotatoi'y motion, with perhaps a vei'y slight in- clination downward and outward. Of this I have now no doubt, having repeatedly within the last two years observed it, and pointed it out to the students." And, again, in connection with a 1 On Paralytic, Neuralgic, and other Nervous Diseases of the Eye. By Arthur Jacob, M.D. From the Dublin Medical Press. January 6, 1841. P. 8.40 ON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. case of complete paralysis of the muscles supplied by the third nerve, he observes,—" On directing her to look down, the eye is distinctly twisted from the nose toward the temple without any visible direction of the pupil downwards, tt is a mere rotatory motion." Longet^ refers to several writers as having held this view regai'd- ing the action of the oblique muscles:—MM. J. Guerin, 1840; Huech, 1841; Helie, 1841; and more especially to M. Szokalski, who has written a memoir on the subject.^ The nature of the motion seems to be very clearly apprehended by them, and they appear to see the necessity for this motion when the head is in- clined from one shoulder to the other, the eyes being kept fixed • on some object. Longet also refers to M. Berard's view that, in this case, the superior obhque of one side will act at the same time as the inferior of the other side; and adds that "it does not seem to me to be possible to perform voluntarily the rotatory motion of the eye, of which we spoke aboA'e, when the head is fixed." In connection with the point now under consideration, I shall next refer to the subject of paralysis of the fourth nerve, or superior oblique muscle. For doing so here I need offer no apology, as the subject is one regarding which very little is known. Those who look for the symptoms of paralysis of this nerve to accord with Sir Charles Bell's now abandoned theory that the muscle is concerned in an involuntary upward motion of the eye, must necessarily be mistaken; but more generally paralysis of the fourth nerve is passed over as a subject of which nothing is known, whilst the symptoms of paralysis of the third and sixth nerves are simple and well understood. The only writings bearing directly on the subject of paralysis of the fourth nerve, with which I have met, are those of Dr Jacob and M. Szokalski. Dr Jacob's remarks scarcely admit of condensation. He observes^:— " Paralysis of the superior oblique muscle has not been noticed, because it is not easily detected. I have already said that I believe the action of this 1 Op. cit., p. 396. 2 De rinfluence des Muscles Obliques de I'oeil sur la Vision, et de leur Paralysie. Paris, 1840. 3 Loc. cit., p. 19.ON THE NEKVES OF THE OKBIT. 41 muscle to be very delicate, and confined to communicating a slight rotatory motion to the eye. The grounds upon which I have arrived at this conclu- sion are, repeated observations of cases of paralysis of the other muscles, from diseases of the third. It must, I think, be admitted that when the levator, depressor, adductor, and inferior oblique muscles are paralysed, the eye must remain fixed, unless moved by the abductor, or superior obhque. That this is the case, an attentive examination of an eye afifected with what is commonly called ptosis proves. The eye is turned out by the action of the abductor, supplied by the sixth nerve, as perfectly as ever, and when the patient is directed to look downward, or toward his shoulder, the cornea is seen distinctly to revolve, with little if any depression of the pupil. In other words, the eye-ball is turned round its antero-posterior, or longitudinal axis. In tliis I think I cannot be mistaken, as I have repeatedly called those about me to observe the fact, in order to bear testimony to it. I have alluded above to a case in the city of Dublin Hospital, in which the four straight muscles of the eye, with the elevator of the upper lid, and probably the in- ferior oblique, were paralysed from disease of the third and sixth nerves within the skull, and in which this delicate rotatory motion was obvious. If the action of the superior oblique be to turn the eye downward and outward in a considerable degree, there could be no difficulty in demonstrating that action, in the case of the other muscles to which I allude; y^t this cannot be done, but on the contrary the delicate rotatory action to which I allude is the result of the effort. The next question, however, is, whether paralysis, either sudden or slow, of the superior oblique, takes place or not; and this question is not, I admit, so easily resolved by demonstration. One thing must, however, be admitted, and that is, that it is most improbable that this superior oblique muscle, and the fourth nerve which supplies it, should be exempted from disease or its consequences, while the other nerves and muscles so frequently suffer. On the contrary, looking at the remote origin of the nerve, the length of its course, and its small dimensions, we should rather expect to find it more frequently engaged than any of the rest. If the action of the muscle be what I say it is, it is no wonder that paralysis of it should be difficult of detection, while all the other muscles are in a state of activity. Its loss is not perceived in the multiplicity of other motions. There is, however, I think, good grounds for supposing that the consequences of such paralyses are occasionally evident. There are certain cases of ano- malous and unintelligible defects of vision, which can scarcely be accounted for in any other way than by attributing them to this cause. I allude par- ticularly to double vision with great confusion of sight, and with little or no squint." Dr Jacob tlien refers to several such cases. One patient had double vision. When he looked downwards, he lost sight of ob-ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 42 jects, while he saw well enough on looking ujAvards, He saw quite well with either eye singly. In three cases the patients saw near objects correctly, but those at some distance appeared double. Another where vision was good with one eye closed, but imperfect when both were open; and it is not stated that there was any squint. Dr Jacob farther states that he has met with many similar cases; but not talcing this view of them at the time, did not pay that attention to them he now would. Al- though I have thought it right to quote the points of interests in these cases, which the author merely suggests might possibly have been of this nature, yet they do not strike me as exactly the symptoms which we would expect to arise from want of action of the superior oblique muscle. According to M. Szokalsld,^ paralysis of the fourth nerve is rare as a separate condition; but he has seen it several times along with paralysis either of the third or sixth pair. He relates two interesting cases, which I shall translate entire:— Case I.—" The eyes of tlie patient have no trace of lesion, their mobility is in no way constrained, and they can be directed easily to all sides, which proves that there is no anomaly in the straight muscles of the two eyes. The two pupils are of equal size, and equally dilatable. Nevertheless, the centre of the Zc/"i cornea manifests a tendency to be placed a little lower down than the right; there is double vision, and constantly one image of the object is placed above the other. If the right eye is shut, the upper image disappears; if the left eye, the lower image ceases to be visible. The two images re- semble each other always so exactly, that the patient learns only by judgment and habit, that the inferior is false. When the head is inclined to the left, the images separate more and more; but if it is inclined to the right only one image is seen. Since I have pointed this out to him, adds M. Szokal-. ski, he goes with the head inclined to the right; formerly he managed by, keeping one eye shut." Case II.—" An attentive examination showed to M. Sichel and myself, that the two eyes are perfectly moveable in every sense. The patient states that every object seems double to him, in such a manner that he perceives two images, the one above the other; these two images separate in proportion as he retires from the object; the lower image appears less distinct. Some vessels were found injected in the external corner of each eye; we looked carefully whilst we moved the patient's head alternately to the left and to the 1 See Longet's work already quoted. Vul. ii. p. 399.ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 43 right, holding it by the temples, and we remarked then that the left eye re- mained attached to the wall of the orbit, which followed the movements of the head, whilst the right eye underwent a rotatory movement in the orbit. The patient was astonished to see single when he inclined the head to the right." « It appears impossible," says M. Szokalsld, «to explain these phenomena otherwise than by paralysis of the left superior oblique muscle." And M. Longet concludes—" According to these observations of M. Szokalski, the symptoms of paralysis of the fourth nerve are the following:—1. The impos- sibility of the rotation of the eye in the orbit. We recognise that impossi- bility when the patient is directed to bend his head alternately from side to side, while he keeps his eyes fixed on some object; we see then that the affected eye remains fixed, and that it does not follow the rotations of its fellow. 2. There is constantly double vision, and the two images are placed one above the other; the affected eye furnishes the lower image. 3. The double vision disappears when the head is inclined to the side away from the affected eye." Now, if the report of these cases is faithful, and they seem very circumstantially related, they form a very interesting con- tribution to the subject of paralysis of the fourth nerve. Since my attention was drawn to this subject, I have not had an opportunity of verifying or testing these observations; but, looking theoretically to the matter, I should think that the pas- sive state of the eye, whilst the head was being bent to the side, would require to be carefully looked for, to be noticed. Accord- ing to our view of the action of the oblique muscles, when the head is bent over to the right, the right superior oblique and the left inferior are in action, so that the upper part of the right eye is turned round towards the inner canthus, and the upper part of the left is turned round towards the outer canthus, so as to counter- act the chiefly circular displacement which the picture would other- wise undergo on the retina. Now, were the movement a purely rotatory one, without the least depression or elevation of the axis, we should expect to find, not double vision with one object above the other, but confused vision, one image of the object being across the other; that, for instance, a pencil, held up, should appear more or less like a cross. But as a purely rotatory motion, without any change in the direction of the axis, would be required only if the head was being bent round on an axis exactly coi-responding to the axis of the eye, which can never be44 ON THE NERVES OF THE OBBIT. exactly the case, at least with both eyes at the same time, we can readily understand why the oblique muscles, whilst they roll the eye round, may be employed also slightly to alter the direction of its axis, and why therefore paralysis of one of these muscles should cause double vision with separated images, unless when its antagonist on the same side is in action; that is, for instance, why paralysis of the right superior oblique should cause a second image to appear, belonging to the right eye, when the head was bent over to the same side, or unless when it was turned to the opposite side. Just in the same way as, in paralysis of the right sixth nerve, the patient has double vision when he looks to the right, but sees single when he looks to the left side. I cannot, however, see, still merely reasoning on the matter, why in para- lysis of the superior oblique, the false image should necessarily be situated below the other, because if the superior oblique has any little power in changing slightly the direction of the axis whilst it is rolling the upper part of the eye round towards the inner canthus, it will certainly be downward; and, when the muscle is paralysed, there would be a want of this slight downward motion, and the false image should therefore be, if not above, at least not below, the other. This I infer from the experiment of causing double vision by pressing one eye in different directions. If the right eye be pressed inwards with the finger, the false image moves to the left. If the eye be pushed up, by pressing, for in- stance with the end of a small key, deeply between the lower lid and the grbit, the false image moves up. And if, in a similar way, by pressing in deeply between the orbit and the upper lid, the axis be depressed, the false image will move down, and ap- pear beloio the one from the untouched eye, somewhat as in M. Szokalski's cases of presumed paralysis of the fourth nerve. My object in presenting these theoretical considerations, how- ever, is not to endeavour to prove the superior oblique not to have been affected in these cases, but to show on the one hand that this relative position of the two images, in diplopia, is not to be regarded as essential to establish the case as one of para- lysis of the superior oblique, a condition which might give rise to various positions of the false image; and on the other hand,ON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. 45 that such a relative position of two images does not necessarily, of itself at least, point to the superior oblique as the muscle affected, but might be due to a slight inequality in the action of the upper or lower recti muscles. Before leaving the subject of our view of the action of the oblique muscles, I may illustrate it by reference to the affection called " oscillation of the eyeball." This oscillatory movement is rotatory round the antero-posterior axis, and is not to be con- fused with the oscillatory movement from side to side by the lateral recti, which is not uncommon, and has received a different name. In his practical treatise on diseases of the eye, Dr Mac- kenzie observes, "in oscillation the eyeball is affected with an almost perpetual rotatory motion round its antero-posterior axis. The patient is not conscious of this motion, from any particular feeling he has in the eyes, nor can he restrain it. It goes on even when the lids are closed, but it ceases during sleep. The motion varies in extent, from a scarcely perceptible degree, to perhaps nearly a quadrant. In some cases the motion seems to be rather from side to side, but often so small in degree and so rapid, that it is difficult to say what is exactly its direction. In general, it is pretty distinctly rotatory, and seems to be produced by the antagonising action of the obliqui, the recti having lost, in a great measm'e, their control over the eye." Before proceeding to inquire into the relation between the nerves and muscles, let us now understand clearly the actions of the different muscles of the eye in its various motions. Here we first separate the straight muscles from the oblique. The former perform all those movements by which we look in various direc- tions, and in which the direction of the axis is changed. The four direct movements are performed each by the corresponding rectus acting alone. The four diagonal movements are effected each by the conjoint action of the two neighbouring recti. The oblique muscles are not necessarily in action during the perform- ance of any of the above movements, nor are they concerned in their accomplishment. They turn the eye round on its axis. The superior turns the top of the eye round towards the inner canthus; the inferior rolls it back by an opposite movement, byON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. 4G which the lower part of the eye is turned towards the inner can- thus. This is the action of each class on each eye; let us now see what relation the muscles have to those of the opposite eye in the various movements. Here we observe that the eyes are bound to each other in their motions, in order tliat the conver- gence of the axis to a greater or less degree shall never be de- stroyed ; so that when the eyes are moved sideways a non-corres- ponding muscle must be employed. The superior rectus always acts with its fellow of the opposite side; so likewise the inferior. But were the external rectus to act with its fellow farther than is sufHcient to bring the axes from convergence near to parallelism, divergence of the axes would result. Therefore, beyond this at least, the external rectus does not act with its fellow; but as, in looking sideways, one eye moves in when the other moves out, the action of the external rectus is attended by that of the inter- nal of the opposite eye. The internal rectus, lastly, is or is not attended by the action of its fellow, according as we direct both eyes inwards, or look sideways: so that this muscle acts some- times with its fellow and sometimes without it. It will thus be observed that the upper and lower recti always act with their fellows, that the external rectus never does so, and that the in- ternal does or does not according as the movement is a correspond- ing or non-corresponding one. The various movements and muscles concerned in each, therefore, are:—Corresponding, or symmetrical. 1. Both eyes upwards; both upper recti. 2. Both downwards; both lower recti. 3. Both inwards; both internal recti. 4. Both downward and inward; both iimer and both lower recti. 5. Both upward and inward; both inner and upper recti. Non-corresponding, or a-symmetrical. 6. Right eye out, the left in ; right external and left internal rectus. 7. Eight eye downwards and outwards, the left downwards and inwards; right external and left internal, and both inferior recti. 8. Right eye upwards and outwards, left upwards and inwai-ds; right external and left internal, and both superior recti. Now as to tlie relation between the oblique muscles of opposite sides. As is stated by those who have written on the subject, the superior oblique of one side will be in action with the inferior47 ON THE NERVES OF THE OKBIT. oblique on the other. When the head is inclined over to^ the right side, the action of the right superior and left inferior oblique is required. Consequently each oblique muscle acts with the opposite oblique muscle of the other eye; the action of either of them with its fellow of the other eye w^ould rotate one of the eyes altoo-ether in the wrong direction. This, however, holds good only of man and those animals in which the eyes look well forwards, and can be directed at the same time to the same object. As I have remarked in considering the anatomy and physiology of these muscles, it must be different in those animals in which the eyes are directed so much outwards that they cannot make the axes of both eyeballs converge, nor in any way use both eyes on the same object at the same time. Such are, among mammals, the hare and rabbit, and the three inferior classes of vertebrate animals generally. Now as both eyes here—in a bird, for in- stance, where the eyes are set quite in the side of the head, and look quite outwards— cannot possibly be used on the same object, it becomes a matter of less interest to inquire into the relation between corresponding muscles of opposite sides, as we do not know whether the animal is ever moving or attending to the sen- sations of both eyes at the same time. But supposing both eyes to be so employed, then, under the cu'cumstances requiring the action of the oblique muscles, the corresponding oblique muscles will act together, the inferior with the inferior, and the superior with the superior. This action of the oblique muscles would appear to be still more required when the eyes are set in the side of the head, as in the simple movement of raising or depressing the head while an object is being viewed; as then the head moves as if on an axis approaching in direction to that of the eyes them- selves. The superior oblique will be required to act when the head is raised, and the inferior when it is depressed. Whilst, then, we can see the necessity of the oblique muscles to each eye in these animals, we can say nothing as to any relative action of the oblique muscles on opposite sides, except that if both eyes are being used at the same time, though not on the same object, then each oblique muscle must act with its fellow of the opposite side; but if not, there can then be no relative action between theON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 48 oblique muscles of opposite sides; nor, indeed, could any advan- tage, so far as we can see, accrue to animals in which the eyes are so placed, were even the straight muscles associated in their action, as they are in man and all animals iu which both eyes can be used forwards on the same object at the same time. In regard to the relation between the oblique muscles of opposite sides, we may therefore conclude that, in man and in animals, which use both eyes on one object, and in which the eyes are known to move consensually, the superior oblique of one side acts constantly with the inferior, not with its fellow, of the opposite side, and vice versa. We are now then, in a position to inquire into the meaning of the relative distribution of the motor nerves. The question of interest is, why the external rectus and the superior oblique receive each a separate nerve, and whether this, together with the distribution of the third nerve to all the other muscles, can be connected in any way with the regulation of the ocular move- ments? I shall first notice a few of the observations which physiologists have oflFered on this subject, although I do so more on account of the authority with which they come than for any value which they appear to me to possess. Valentin,^ more especially, has written on this subject, and has, with much argument and illustration, presented a theory. It is, that some of the muscles and nerves are voluntary, and the rest involuntary or automatic; and that the action of the voluntary nerves of the one side is attended by that of the automatic nerves on the other, for the non-corresponding movements. His volun- tary nerves are the fourth and sixth, and the upper division of the third; the lower division of the third, supplying one-half of the muscles, being automatic or self-acting. Thus, he observes, the upward and outward movements are voluntary, the down- ward and inward involuntary or automatic. "All regular motions which are harmonious and a-symmetrical are so per- formed that on one side a voluntary muscle acts,—either the superior or external rectus or superior oblique; whilst, on the other, there is the harmonious action of a muscle more or less > De Funotionibus Jfervorum. 1839.49 ON THE NERVES OE TEE ORBIT. automatic.'" That is, in the non-corresponding movements the volimtaiy muscles lead off on the side to whicli we look, and the automatic, or self-acting, muscles make the other eye follow. He finds no difficulty in bringing two of the so-called voluntary nerves to act together in raising both eyes, or two of the involun- tary ones in depressing both eyes; but here the nerves are cor- responding. Valentin, it may be observed, believes that the inferior oblique muscle turns the eye upward and inward, and we must infer, from the ])receding remarks, which give the sub- stance of his theory, that be believes tlie superior oblique to be concerned in some outward movement. I have stated this as his view in my paper on the muscles of the eye, following the account given of Valentin's views in another work, but in the original he nowhere makes this statement, so far as I can find. In enume- rating the muscles concerned in tlie various movements, the only mention made in any of them of the superior oblique is in the following passage (p. 30) :—" 4. Uterque oculus primo initio ad interna et inferiora movetur. Qu£b contractio aut m. m. rectis interno et inferiori ant m. m. recto interno et obliquo superior! simul agentibus evenit." His view as to the actions of the recti muscles is the same as that which 1 haA^e given above, but the oblique muscles he brings in to assist in the inward diagonal movements of both eyes. When both eyes turn upwards and inwards—a movement which' he gives as involuntary—he em- ploys the internal recti and the inferior obliques; when both look downwards and inwai'ds, the superior obliques are brought in, according to the passage above quoted, to assist also the internal recti. Still it must be inferred, from his remarks on the nerves,' that he believes the chief action of the superior oblique to be, to assist in an outward movement. But the superior oblique seems rather to stand in the way of this theory, as indeed of all others ni which the oblique muscles are supposed to assist some of the recti. But, although we put aside that part of Valentin's theory which relates to the oblique muscles, it may be said that the same explanation may be shaped to our view of the action of these muscles. With due deference, however, to the high » Valentin, op. cit., p. 31, s. 69. DON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. 50 authority by wliom it is proposed, it must be observed that the theory or explanation really does not explain what we wish to under- stand, or in any way render the matter more simple. It assumes that some of the muscles and nerves are involuntary, for which there does not appear to be any good ground; for if we take the ordinary ocular movements as we find them, without being in- fluenced by any preconceived theory, no one appears to be more voluntary than another; and to say that one nerve is automatic, and necessarily acts with a voluntary one of the other side, is merely another way of expressing the fact that the one eye moves with the otherj whilst what we are seeking for is some explanation of the fact itself. There is next Miiller's explanation.^ The substance of his remarks, in endeavouring to explain the arrangement of the nerves and the harmony of the movements, may be given thus: —1. That the correspondmg branches of the third nerve have an innate tendency to act together on opposite sides, evinced from the time of birth, and therefore due to some peculiarity of structure at the origins of the two nerves. The corresponding muscles supplied by them, therefore, always act together on opposite sides; and to explain why such is not the case with the internal rectus when we look sideways, he supposes that the in- ternal rectus of the everted eye really acted, but was overcome by the stronger action of the external. 2. That the sixth nerve wants this tendency to act with its fellow, and that the strong action of the one is incompatible with that of the other. Also, that this enables us to understand why in all vertebrata the ex- ternal rectus receives a separate nerve. 3. That the reason why the fourth also is a separate nerve is, that its muscle moves the" eye downwards and outwards, and that therefore the oppo- site muscle is not to be employed. Before commenting on this hypothesis, I may notice, lastly, the remarks of M. Ph. Berard, as quoted by Longet,= with the view of explaining why the external rectus and superior oblique receive separate nerves. He observes, that when we look up and 1 Elements of Physiology. Trans, by Baly. 1835. Pp. 928-931. . . a Op. cit., torn, ii., pp. 396, 397, 405.51 ON THE NEEVES OF THE ORBIT. down we no doubt use branches of the third nerve in opposition to each other; but this opposition is on the same side. But whenever we look out sideways, there is a double antagonistic action; for the external rectus is not merely the antagonist of the internal of the same side, but of the external rectus of the other side, in so far that they never act together. It was neces- sary, then, that one of the lateral recti should receive a special nerve; and he thinks the reason why it is given to the external rather than to the internal rectus is, that a more extended motion is required outwardly than inwardly. Also of the obhque muscles, in accordance with our view of their action, which he holds, as each acts not with the corresponding but with the non-corres- ponding oblique of the opposite side, therefore one of them—the superior as it happens—has received a separate nerve; and, therefore, he adds, as " the same pair of nerves could not pro- duce so complicated a movement, it was necessary that the supe- rior or inferior oblique should receive a special nerve." Now these theories, when examined, whilst they have an ap- pearance of plausibility, in reality, so far as they are correct as to fact, amount to nothing beyond a mere statement of the fact. Passing over the part of Miiller's theory which relates to the action of the oblique muscles, the fallacy of it in other respects is evident, as has been well pointed out by Dr Gr. Johnson,^ in the first place by showing, that there really is no such tendency in all the corresponding branches of the third pair; and, secondly, by the observation, that " we must not suppose we are explaining the necessity for this arrangement by asserting, to use the words of Midler, that if, in place of the sixth nerve, the external recti muscles had received each a branch of the third nerve, it would have been impossible to make one of these muscles act without the other." M. Berard's remarks are likewise objectionable, from his assuming the necessity of there being separate nerves for opposite movements on the two sides; but they evidently, embracing as they do the correct view of the use of the oblique muscles, point to the only explanation of which the matter ad- mits,—viz., that separate nerves are employed when, and only 1 Cyc. of Anatomy and Physiology. Article, Orbit. 1844. Pp. 791, 792.52 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. when, non-corresponding muscles are in action on opposite sides, whilst corresponding nerves, as is natural, are employed when the muscles are corresponding. Or, as Dr Johnson expresses it, " assuming that the use of the oblique muscles is such as we have mentioned, it is certainly curious to observe that when corres- ponding muscles of the two eyes ai^e intended to act together, as the superior rectus of one eye with the superior rectus of the other, and the same with the inferior recti, both muscles are supplied by the third nerve; but the external rectus, which acts consentaneously Avith the internal rectus of the opposite eye, has a separate nerve, the sixth; and the superior oblique, which acts Avith the inferior of the opposite eye, has the fourth nerve en- tirely devoted to it." Let us now, therefore, see what we really know as to the mo- tor functions of these nerves. Of the third nerve, we have observed that it supplies muscles which act in the corresponding movements on the two sides; but the various branches act under different circumstances. The upper division supplies the levator muscle of the upper lid as well as the supei'ior rectus. Now, the action of these two is frequently conjoined on the same side, the action of the superior rectus being usually accompanied by that of the levator palpebrse for an evident purpose; but not neces- sarily so, as we can, with very little effort, keep the eyelids closed, and at the same time move the eyes upwards; and again, the levator palpebrte acts often enough without the superior rectus, as when we are looking in any direction except upwards, the upper eyelids being raised sufficiently to expose the eye. There is, therefore, no necessary association in action on the same side of the two muscles supplied by the upper division of the third nerve. On opposite sides, the physiological relation of these two muscles is quite different. The levator palpebr£e usually acts with its fellow, but not necessarily, so that, after a very little practice, one eyelid may be raised without the other, although at first this is effected, until the tendency be overcome, by the orbi- cular muscle keeping the lid down. Indeed the tendency to simultaneous action in the levator palpebrte muscles is not greater than that between the orbicular muscles of the two sides, sup-ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 53 plied by the portio dura of the seventh pair. But no amount of effort or practice Avill enable us to use one superior rectus with- out the other. Of the lower division of the third nerve, the branch to the inferior rectus is exactly in the same position as that to the superior. The lower and upper recti are the direct opponents of each other, but they cannot act without their fellows of the opposite side. The branch to the internal rectus again differs from these. It acts in the direct or diagonal inversion of both eyes with its fellow, like those to the upper and lower recti, but, unlike them, not necessarily exactly in the same degree, as when the eyes converge unequally ; and again, without its fellow and with the sixth nerve, as when we look sideways, in this case resembling the sixth nerve itself. And, lastly, the branch to the inferior oblique, according to our view of the use of the oblique muscles, will never act with its fellow, but, at the same time, as the fourth nerve of the op'posite side, in this, respect exactly resemblin<T the fourth. Farther, the muscles supplied by the thii'd'nerve do not seem to have, on the same side, any greater tendency to act with each other than with the muscle supplied by the sixth nerve. Al- though we use the upper and lower recti more frequently along with the internal than with the external rectus, still we do not feel any more difBculty one side than on the other when one eye is directed upwards and outwards, and the other upwards and inwards. Thus the upper division of the third acts as readily with the separate sixth nerve as with the nerve to the internal rectus, which comes from the same trunk as the former. There is another branch of the third nerve—that to the iris, through the ciliary ganglion—the action of which is always, like that of the nerves to the upper and lower recti, attended by the action of its fellow of the opposite side. It is maintained by Miiller,^ that there is a necessary association in action between the iris and the internal rectus, and still more so with the in- ferior oblique, This falls more naturally to be noticed in con- sidering the functions of the ciliary nerves ; but I may observe here that this association between the iris and the internal rectus ' Op, cit., p. 773.54 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. does not appear to be a necessary one, or due, as Miiller supposes, to any contiguity or connection of their nerves. We observe, it is no doubt true, the consensual contraction of the pupil to occur always when the eyes converge on a near object; but this is not due merely to tlie internal recti being in action, but occurs sim- ply because it is required wlien a near object is being viewed. The two occur together, because both are necessary to the view- ing of a near object. But the consentaneous contraction of one pupil may occur independent of the action of tbe internal rectus, as when we look out sideways at a near object. Here both pupils contract, whilst on one side the external, not the internal, rectus is in action. And again, in looldng sideways at a distant object, one of the in- ternal recti is in action, but both pupils' are enlarged. There- fore the consensual contraction or dilatation of the pupils occurs simply according as we view a near or distant object, whatever may be the muscles employed. These remarks relate only to the consensual movements of the irides, the influence causing which must originate in the brain; otherwise the pupils are moved by reflex action, through the impressions on the retina, conveyed backwards along the optic nerve, and reflected outwards along the third nerve. Here the tendency to association is so remark- able, that an impression on one retina only, causes an equal con- traction of both pupils. When the pupils act consensually,— i. e., along with one or other of the muscles of the eye, the fact of their keeping exactly of the same size is only what we would expect to meet the pui-pose to be served; but when the action of the pupils is reflex,—i.e., from the quantity of light, indepen- dent of any motion of the eyes, the fact of impression on one eye causing an action of both pupils may seem to favovir the view taken by Miiller, that there is a peculiarity or identity at the roots of that part of the third pair of nerves which goes to the irides,—that is to say, that it is impossible for the nervous centre to act on the nervous fibrils which go to one iris without also acting on those which go to the other iris. But this hypo- thesis seems to be unnecessary. Symmetrical reflex action, when the irritation is appUed to One side only, is at any rate not con-ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 55 fined in its occurence to the iris; but the fact, as affecting the latter, seems to me to' be ;sufficiently explained by the decussation of the optic nerves. As each optic nerve divides, a part going into each tract, both sides of the nervous centre are necessarily and simultaneously affected by the stimulus. Thus the equal reflex action of both pupils is secured, independent of any ine- quality of the light falling on the two eyes, which, had there been no decussation, or had each nerve entirely crossed over to the other side, so that each retina regulated the reflex actions of one pupil only, would have caused an unequal state of the pupils; ajid thus we understand why an impression on one retina should cause a reflex action of the opposite pupil, just as readily and as completely as it does of the pupil of the same eye. Next, as to the sixth and fourth nerves, we observe that they do not act along with their fellows, but with the antagonist nerve of the opposite side, the fourth with the nerve to the inferior oblique muscle, and the sixth with that, also from the lower divi- sion of the third, which goes to the internal rectus,— and that these nerves go to one of each of the two pairs of muscles which are employed in non-corresponding movements. As regards the sixth nerve, it is worthy of remark that, in animals which possess a retractor muscle, which is supplied by the sixth nerve, a part of this nerve acts differently. It is probably the case that the retractor muscles act at least generally together; and here we have a single nerve, part of which is generally used with its fel- low, whilst the other part is not so, but with its antagonist of the opposite side. Now, if we endeavour to explain all these differences in the different nerves, or different parts of the same nerve, by saying that each nerve has a certain endowment whereby it always, or sometimes, or never, acts with its fellow of the other side, we must recollect that we are merely expressing the fact that we observe such and such to be the case, and take care not to put it so that our way of stating the fact should lead us to suppose that we have in any way explained it. The object of these differences in the mode of employment of all these nerves and muscles is, that both eyes may be used at the same time for single vision,56 ON THE NERTES OF THE ORBIT. and to accomplish this the eyes must move so that the axes shall always converge more or less. For this purpose, then, we have, first, suitable muscles; secondly, nerves going to each; and, thirdly, these nerves are subjected to a central influence, by which these motions, otherwise voluntary, are regulated so as to establish and preserve the harmony of the ocular movements. However that influence may originate, or whatever its nature, whether we speak of it as an instinctive action or original endow- ment, or an irresistible influence, or as partly the result of the guiding sensations of the retinas, there is such a central influ- ence, which exerts itself, alike as a guide and check, on all the movements of the eyes, giving rise to a class of movements which stand by themselves, and can be compared to, or illustrated by, no others in the body. The nerves we should regard not as themselves possessed of special endowments, bvit merely as chan- nels by which the nervous centres, with their special endow- ments, act down u[)on the muscles. The mere fact of the third nerve supplying the superior recti by corresponding branches, does not explain why these two muscles should always act to- gether, because the neighbouring fibres to the levatoi'es palpe- brarum muscles are not so bound together. Again, the mere fact of the sixth nerve being a separate one, does not explain why the external rectus cannot be made to act with its fellow, from any endowment of the nerve, for that part of it which goes to the retractor muscle is not so tied up. But the reason why the nerves of the upper recti always act together, and why those of the external recti never do so, is simply, that they obey tlie central regulating influence; and the reason why the nerves which supply the levators of the upper eyelids may act sepa- rately, and that those fi.-om the sixth nei'ves to the retractor muscles in animals are not tied up from acting together, is simply, that such may be the case without interfering with the harmony of the ocular movements, by which the parallelism or convergence of the axes is preserved. Further, this regulat- ing influence is exerted no less in the parallel than in the non- corresponding movements. We have just as little power of moving one eye up and the other down as of making both lookON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 57 outwards, the harmony is the same, and the central influence guides and. controls alike in both cases. We ai-e not, therefore, to conclude that it is only when the sixth and fourth nerves, and non-corresponding muscles, are employed, that, this influence is needed or exerted. Still, when we look to those movements where non-corresponding muscles are employed, we observe that^ on one side a separate nerve is provided for the muscle. But we see no reason why this should be so, beyond the inference we draw from noticing the fact that it is so; nor are we to suppose that this explains why one eye follows the other in an opposite movement; we merely observe the facts together, and we there- fore conclude that the design contained in the provision of separate nerves, the sixth and fourth, for the external rectus and superior oblique muscles, is explained, so far as it can be, by the circum- stance, that one of these nerves is used on one side, when the movements are non-corresponding or in opposite directions; and it is, in connection with this, also remarkable, as before stated, that while the third or common nerve arises as near to its distri- bution as possible, the origins of these two single nerves are so remote and separate. As regards the nature of the movements of the eyeballs, by which the direction of the axes is changed, we observe that they are all perfectly voluntary,—that is, we can, when we wish, look with both eyes in any direction we choose, only the will is so subjected to the central regulating influence, that the two eyes are obliged to move conjointly, so as to preserve the con- vergence of the axes. But it is a very common belief, that there is likewise an involuntary movement of the eyes in the upward direction. This was maintained more especially by Sir Charles Bell, who describes the ej-eballs as being turned involuntarily upwards in the act of winking, during forcible expiratory efforts, in sleep, fainting, and the insensibility preceding death. Plis theory as to the use of this motion in winking was, that the cornea is turned up in order that the mucus and impurities brought down by the hd miglit not be left across the cornea after being collected in the little triangular gutter, which was formerly supposed to remain between the margins of the closed lids and58 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. the cornea. The motion he attributed, on very theoretical grounds, to the action or influence of the superior obUque muscle and fourth nerve; but later writers attribute it to the involuntary action of the inferior oblique muscles. But it does not appear to have been very carefully inquired into, whether such movements actually occur under these circumstances. If the eye be forcibly exposed by holding up the eyelid, as in searching for a foreign body in the fossa of the conjunctiva, .the eye may be seen to roll up; but this is a voluntary action, performed in order that the front of the eye may be placed out of danger deeply under the upper eyelid. But is it the case that the eye rolls up every time the eyelids meet, either in the ordinary winking motions, or that which may occur during the acts of sneezing and coughing? Is there any satisfactory proof that such a motion actually and regularly occui's? The statement that the eyeballs are turned upwards during sleep, is certainly incorrect. I do not say that they may not occasionally be so found, but they are not generally so; on the contrary, as Mr Mayo' remarks, in raising the lid of a person in sound sleep, " the eye is found directed straight forwards; but in some instances the eye is dkected upwai'ds and outwards." That the eyes are sometimes rolled upwards in fainting and on the approach of death must have been observed by every one, both when the eyelids are wide apart and when tliey are nearly closed. But it does not always occur under these circumstances, and the direction is not constantly the same. The more common opinion seems to be, that they turn upwards and inwards, owing perhaps to the striking appearance which this motion gives; but it has seemed to me that the motion is more frequently directly upwards, and occasionally both eyes are turned a little upwards and outwards. Looking to their anatomy in man only, it was perhaps natural enough to ascribe this up- ward rolling motion^ to the inferior oblique, especially when no other use could be found for that muscle; but it is not necessaiy for me to go back on this matter now to show that the inferior oblique muscle has quite a different purpose to sei-ve, and is not, in all, so placed as to be capable of turning the cornea up- 1 Anat. and Phys. Commentaries. 1822. Part ii., p. 6.ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 59 wards. We must attribute these actions chiefly to the superior recti, acting sometimes with the internal and sometimes with the external recti, although we cannot explain why they should occur. That the upward direction is not always the same, shows that it is not an action of one muscle provided for this pui-pose; and that its occurrence is not invariable, shows that the motion is not an essential one. , But, according: to the view maintained as to the use of the oblique muscles, their action cannot be held to be voluntary, in the full sense a.t least, as that of the recti muscles is so; for, as Longet has remarked, we do not seem to have the power of vo- luntarily turning the eye round its axis when the head remains fixed. Still this is not equivalent to regarding the oblique muscles as involuntary. They are subjected to the central in- fluence, which prevents any motion from which double or con- fused vision would result; and we should have no power of using these muscles voluntarily, for the same reason that we cannot tm'n one eye up and the other down, or both eyes out. Still it may be said, as the regulating influence does not restrain the actual motion, but only regulates the motions of the two eyes, that if we use the superior of one side with the inferior oblique of the other, we should be able to twist the eyes round about. But this power would be of no use to us under any circumstances ; and indeed such a movement of the eyes would be injurious to correct .vision at all times, except when the motion is actually required. If we keep the eyes fixed on an object straight before us, and move the head round to the right side, by a motion at the joint between the two first vertebra, we use, to keep the eyes fixed, the left external and the right internal recti; but if we bend the head down towards the right shoulder, we use the right superior and the left inferior oblique ; we are alike unconscious of the effort in either case, both the motions are equally volun- tary or involuntary, being performed under the dii'ection of the guiding sensation. There is just one other question concerning the oblique muscles which has not been considered. We have seen their relation to each other on the same side,—that they act altei:-ON THE NERVES OP THE OEBIT. 60 natelj as direct antagonists; and also their relation to their fellows of the opposite side—tliat the superior of one side acts ■with the inferior of the other; and the remaining consideration is, what relation exists, if any, between the two classes of muscles, the straight and oblique, on the same side—whether either oblique muscle acts more with one rectus than another. First, we ob- serve, as bearing on this, that the inferior oblique is seemingly grouped in nervous supply, by the inferior division of the third nerve, with the lower and internal recti; and this might lead us to suppose that it was associated in action with these muscles more especially. This inference, however, is met by the consi- derations, that the arrangement of the motor nerves has reference more to the relative action of the muscles of opposite eyes; and that, as has been already remarked, the nerve to the inferior rectus acts as readily with the sixth nerve, as with that to the internal rectus, witli which it is associated in origin. Also, that only one of each of the two pairs of muscles which act non-correspondingly receives a separate nerve, whilst the com- mon nerve goes to all the other muscles in the orbit; and that, from the position of the muscle, it is as natural for the infe- I'ior oblique to be supplied by the division of the third nerve, Avhich goes to the lower and inner recti, as it is for the levator palpebraj to be supplied from the division which supplies the superior rectus. Apart, however, from these reflections, on con- sidering carefully which of the straight muscles will be more or less in action with each of the oblique muscles, it does not appear that there is any constant relation. It will depend very much on how far and in what way the two kinds of motion of the head are blended. The superior oblique will be in action as often with the internal rectus, and the inferior oblique as often with the ex- ternal, as with any of the other recti muscles; and it therefore does not appear that there is in the same orbit any special asso- ciation between either of the oblique muscles and one or more of the recti. [Note. March 1854.—On the TJiird Nerve and Ciliary Gang- lion in the Horse.—1 am awai-e that Valentin has described theON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 61 third nerve as supplying in part the retractor muscle in the horse, and on his authority the statement has been made by others that this is the ai'rano-ement " in some animals." Valentin states/that "in some mammaha, the horse for ex- ample, it (the third nerve) supplies also tlie retractor muscle of the eye; and in his work " De Functionibus Nervorum"^ he states that, in the horse, the retractor muscle is supplied by the third as well as by the sixth nerve, the external part by the sixth, and the internal part by the third; and this suits his theory, according to which the muscles which invert and depress the eye are involuntary, and regulated by the lower division of the third nerve. My own observation of the nerves in the horse does not agree with that of Valentin. I find the internal part of the retractor to be supplied by the sixth nerve equally with the external part. The two filaments for the retractor come off, one close after the other, from the inner side of the trunk of the sixth nerve, imme- diately after it has entered the orbit—one going to the outer and the other to the inner half of the muscle. I could find no fila- ments from the third nerve to the retractor muscle. There is, however, the appearance as if the lower fasciculus from the oph- thalmic ganglion supplied the muscle, but I could not determine whether this filament supplied the muscle or only pierced it to reach the eye. It is, however, very delicate compared with the large supply equally to the inner half of the muscle from the " sixth nerve. The retractor muscle in the horse is pierced by several fila- ments from the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, both on its inter- nal and superior aspects. The latter arise in the apex of the orbit, and may, in part at least, be easily traced on to the eye as long ciliary nerves. This is the common arrangement in animals with a complete retractor: the long ciliary nerves pierce it to reach the eye. But they may branch in the muscle and unite with the sixth nerve in it, and have at least the appearance of supplying it. These, however, are derived from the sen- sory or ganglionic portion of the sixth nerve, which, in some 1 Op. cit., p. 289. 2 1839, p. 21.ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. G2 animals at least, regularly supplies filaments to tlie muscles of the eye. The above remarks imply that I have found the ophthalmic ganglion in the horse. Some anatomists (Muck and Desmoulins) had denied its existence in that animal. Retzius, admitting its presence, says it is very small; and it has been well and fully described by Mr Alfred Poland, ^ in a paper which, I regret to say, was unknown to me until a few weeks ago. I had dissected this ganglion in the horse several years previously, and observe in my notes, made in 1844, that it is described as " very distinct;" and I have a drawing of it made from another dissection in 1852.] 1 Guy's Hospital Reports, 1849.V. CASE OF OPEN FORAMEN OVALE, AND CONTRACTED PULMONARY ORIFICE; WITH OBSEBVATIONS ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE FOETAL HEART. [Read to the Edikbcrgh Phisiological Societt, 13th March 1852; and ex- tracted from the Monthly Journal op Medical Science, July 1852.] This heart is from a child aged fifteen months. It presents,— 1. An open foramen ovale; 2. A large Eustachian valve; 3. Great contraction of the pulmonary orifice; and 4. Contraction and hypertrophy of the right ventricle, with narrowing of the tricuspid valve. The foramen ovale admits the little finger,—i.e., is equal in size to a circular opening of the diameter of half an inch. Its valve is imperfectly developed, thick, and muscular-looldng. It does not reach to the upper margin of the foramen, although its horns on each side reach higher than the oj)ening. The Eustachian valve is very large and loose, much more so than at any period of foetal lifer It measures nearly an inch (7-8 ths) from its attached to its free horder ; and when lifted up- wards, it reaches for one-third of its depth ahove the upper mar- gin of the foramen ovale. It is cribriform, especially at the right half of its attachment, and also above, near its free margin. Right ventricle.—The walls are 3-16ths of an inch in thick- ness, whilst those of the left are from 3-16ths to 4-16ths. In ad-64 ON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE dition to hypertrophy of the walls, there is likewise contraction of the cavity, which is apparently about one-half the size of the left. Tricuspid orifice admits the little finger (4-8ths inch), whilst the mitral orifice admits the forefinger (5-8ths). Vena cava superior admits little finger with difficulty. Vena cava inferior admits forefinger easily. Foramen ovale admits little finger moderately, as already noticed. Tricxispid valve much thickened. Cord^ tendinege shorter and' thicker than on left side, and musculi papillares large. Mitral valve appears healthy, except that tliere are a few vegetations on both its flaps, where the cords chiefly join them. Aortic valves and orifice natural. The orifice measures 3-8tlis of an inch in diameter. Pulmonary orifice and valves much conti'acted and altered. The semilunar valves are united too;ether into one solid mass, with a small aperture in the centre. Seen from above, there is the appearance of a nipple, smooth and rounded, and perforated in the centre by an aperture not larger than a ci'ow-quill, the whole somewhat resembling a cervix and os uteri. Surround- ing the base of this nipple-like projection, and separated by par- titions which join the central papilla, are/oitr semilunar recesses, corresponding to the sinuses of Valsalva, and to the cavities of formerly existing semilunar valves. One of these is nearly as large as the other three together; it is left and posterior; one of the smaller is anterior; the other two are on the right side. Seen from below, the orifice appears blocked up by four irregular tubercular projections, two anterior, and two posterior; one of the posterior is large, the others are of equal size. They are firm and irregular', but covered by a serous membrane; and in be- tween them is the small aperture which leads up through the central papilla. On pushing the probe down into the sinuses of Valsalva, it pushes out the membrane at a considerable distance below the tubercles. The ductus arteriosus admits a small wire with difficulty, and was therefore practically closed. Both lungs are studded with tubercles of the size of small peas or grains of corn, on their sur- faces as well as thi'oughout their substance.AND THE FCETAL HEAKT. 65 History during life.—A month before death there was diffi- cuUj of breathing, the lungs appeared healthy, and the case much resembled one of disease of the mitral valve. Ten days before death, occasional blueness of the sui'face made its appear- ance, lasting only a short time, without any paroxysm of difficult breathing, and tiien passing off. Death occurred suddenly. The case belonged to the late Dr Campbell, for whom I conducted the post-mortem examination, and to whose kindness I was in- debted for this use of the preparation. EEMAKKS. On the Causes of Open Foramen Ovale.—A more or less open foramen ovale is well known to be the most common imperfection of the heart, but the causes of this condition are perhaps not generally understood or agreed upon. We may refer it to two causes—1. An impediment to the free passage of the blood throuffh the ria;ht ventricle, from contraction of one of its orifices; and 2. To an imperfect development of the valve by which the foramen is usually completely closed at, or soon after, birth, 1. The connection between contracted pulmonary orifice and open foramen ovale has been remarked by various observers. M. Louis regards it as the most common cause of the open foramen, and farther looks upon this pulmonary contraction as almost always a congenital condition. Out of 53 cases of imperfect heart quoted by Dr Joy in the " Library of Medicine," the fora- men was open in 33, the pulmonary artery contracted in 22 ; and it is not unlikely that in many cases the open state of the foramen ovale has been recorded, whilst the condition of the pul- monaiy artery and its orifice had not been carefully examined. The case I have related illustrates this connection between open foramen ovale and contracted orifices of the right ventricle. Still the question occurs, why should there so frequently be valvular disease and contracted orifice on the rigid side in the foetus and child, and not in the left, as in the adult. I do not think that this can be explained by the supposition that the right ventricle EON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE 66 has, relatively to tlie left, more labour to perform in the foetus than in the adult. In the foetus, it is usually remarked as inter- esting to observe that the walls of the riglit ventricle are as strong as those of tlie left, or nearly so ; but this I think has been over- stated by some. In tlie foetus between the fourth and fifth month, now before the Societ_y, it will be observed that the left is twice the thickness of the right; and in the other foetus I now show— at the third month—the difference is already well marked. We can see rio reason, then, why, during the latter two-thirds of foetal life, and in early childhood, the right ventricle should be the seat of hypertrophy and valvular contraction, and not the left. The fact of the foramen ovale being open, seems to be sufficient proof of the correctness of the view of M. Louis, that the pulmonary contraction is congenital, otherwise in the meanwhile the foramen would have become closed. Still it is not apparent why in the foetus the pulmonary orifice should be the seat of malformation or disease more than the corresponding aperture of the left and stronger heart. The view may occur, that this contracted state of the orifices of the right ventricle and pulmonary arteiy, is not the cause but rather the result of the condition of open foramen ovale. This view might accord with the state of simple contrac- tion of the pulmonary artery or its orifice, as part of the blood which should pass through them has found another channel; but it certainly will not account for diseased or malformed conditions of the right ventricle and its oi'ifices. I may observe that in the case I have related, it was the orifice merely which was contracted, not the artery, as, a short distance above their orifices, the measurements of the pulmonary arteiy and aorta were the same. Some cases have been recorded of contracted or obliterated pulmonary artery, in which the ductus arteriosus remained open so as to allow of a recurrent circulation to the lungs, but in this case the ductus arteriosus was practically closed. From this it may be inferred that the severe contraction of the pulmonary orifice had not been of very long standing, possibly not before the symptoms became aggravated, and occa- sional cyanosis made its appearance, about ten days before death. 2. Passing over the possibly correct view of some that the fora-AND THE l''(ETAL HEART. 67 men ovi vale is occasionally again opened, or burst open, by severe falls, prolonged fits of coughing, or severe straining,-tlie next cause of open foramen ovale is the imperfect development of its valve. -In connection ^^ith this, it is necessary to understand clearly the natural means by w hich the closure of this aperture is effected after birth. Formation of the Foramen Ovale and Development of the Valve by which it in closed.—In the well-developed foetal heart, the inferior vena cava terminates so that it may be said to open into both auricles, and each opening is provided with a valve. The Eusta- chian valve pai-tly guards, or lies over, and diminishes, its opening into the right auricle; and its opening into the left auricle, which is the foramen ovale, is guarded behind by the valve of that foramen—the valvula foraminis ovaHs. It is still a disputed question, whether the blood of the lower cava mixes with that of the upper. Now there is nothing to prevent the blood of the lower cava from coming forwards into the general cavity of the right auricle, only it must turn forwards at right angles to its previous course, around the free margin of the Eustachian valves and that part of it does so, appears evident from the consideration that the inferior cava is larger than the foramen ovale, whilst the tricuspid orifice is as large as those of both cavas together. This is seen in the foetus, between the fourth and fifth month, now on the table. And the foramen ovale becoines smaller as foetal life advances, for, although it attains, as usually described, its maxi- mum size about the sixth month, still, relatively speaking, the communication between the two auricles gradually decreases from the first appearance of the auricular septum, about the ninth week. Whilst, then, that blood which does go by the foramen ovale is still entirely of the purer current, from the lower cava, it follows, as the foramen is of less size than the vein, that some of the blood of the latter, that which the foramen ovale cannot take in, will enter the right auricle and mix with the other cuiTent. This appears to be one of four points where there must occur some mixture of the pure and the less pure currents of the foetal blood—the second is in the left auricle, where the blood which has passed through the foramen ovale is mixed with that blood68 ON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE wliich comes, -whatever its quantity may be, by the well-developed pulmonary veins; the thu-d, where the arch of the aorta and ductus arteriosus join, where it does not appear how some of the blood of the former can avoid passing down to the thoracic aorta; still, however, this is not till the vessels of the head have been filled by the purer current; and the fourth, or rather the first and chief point of mixture, is where the blood of the hepatic veins and ductus venosus is mixed with that of the vena cava inferior. A great part, therefore, of the blood of the lower cava passes through the foramen ovale. But to prevent this after birth its valve is provided. This valve is rather a provision for closing the aperture at birth, than for any part it has to perform before this time. Although, many years ago, it was the subject of much attention in France, it has perhaps been a little overlooked by some, partly, perhaps, for want of a distinctive name. It is the " valvula foraminis ovalis," and I may ventvire to suggest for it the term obturator valve, as its office is to shut up the foramen at and after birth. According to most authorities, this valve begins to be developed towards the end of the third month. It is not until the end of the second month that the septa of the ventricles and bulbus arteriosus are completed, and then an imperfect auri- cular septum is formed, leaving the foramen ovale at its lower part. The true or defined foramen ovale is itself, therefore, not formed or marked out untU, at least, after the end of the second month. Some have found the valve, at the end of the second month (Senac and Portal, according to John Reid), and in the foetus now before the Society, which I have ascertained to be near the end of the third month, this valve is developed so far that it rises up above the middle of the foramen, and is as high as the free edge of the large Eustachian valve, which lies in fi-ont of it. At the end of the fifth month, according to Cruveilhier, this valve is large enough to cover over completely the orifice of the foramen ovale; and this will be seen to be the case in the foetus between the fourth and fifth month now before the Society. The valve in its lower two-third's grows from the sides of the foramen ovale, but, above, its horns pass upwards and outwards from the openingAND THE FCETAL HEART. 69 as far as l-16tli of an inch above it; and, when the valve is lifted or floated up, it is more than sufficient to cover over the foramen ovale. We see, then, that as early as the middle period of uterine life, this valve, or obturator membrane, is so fully formed as to be capable of shutting up the foramen completely. At birth it is floated up by the reversed current, and applied against the back of the foramen; and, becoming imited or glued to it, the septum auricularum is completed. We can understand, then, how an imperfect development of this valve will give rise to the condition of open foramen ovale, as there is no other means by which the communication between the auricles can be closed; and if in any case we find this valve so undeveloped that, on being raised, it cannot shut up the fora- men ovale, we may justly consider its non-development as a suffi- cient reason for the foramen ovale being open. This imperfect condition of the valve may be attributed either to its simple non-development, as the growth of this, as well as of various other parts, may be withheld without any apparent phy- sical cause ; or it may possibly be due to obstruction at the ori- fices of the right ventricle. Were the latter condition to exist, thus rendermg impossible the closing of the foramen ovale at birth, although its valve had been well formed, analogy woidd lead us to expect that the valve should present a thin and reticular appearance, like an ordinary wasting Eustachian valve, rather than appear simply small and undeveloped; but were the pulmo- nary orifice to become malformed or contracted during the two first montlis of foetal life, before the time for the development ox the valve had arrived, this might possibly influence the non- development of the valv6, besides causing all the other appear- ances which the heart presented in the case I have related to-day. However, whilst contracted pulmonary orifice is undoubtedly a fi-equent concomitant, and, it may be, precedent, of open foramen ovale, it is at the same time by no means invariably or necessarily so. In examining cases of open foramen ovale, I would suggest that care be taken to examine especially into these two pointT:— 1. Whether there is contraction of the pulmonary or tricuspidON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE TO orifices, as compared witli the aortic or mitral; and 2, Whether, with or witliout this, there is deficiency of the obturator valve, •which, lying on the left aspect of the foramen ovale, should be found in its fully developetl state more than sufficient, when lifted up, to shut up the aperture. These, then, may be laid down as the two causes of the condi- tion of open foramen ovale. In the one case, its obturator~mem- brane may have been fully formed, but it is kept open by tlie blood which cannot find a free passage through the right side of the heart; in the other case, the membrane, which should be ready to close it up, is too small, and it i-emains open for want of any provision to close it; and again, these two conditions may be found to co-exist, as in the case I have related to-day. Use of the Foramen Ovale in the Foetus, and result of its imperfect closure after Birth.—Another question in connection with open foramen ovale after birth is—Whether any mixture of the blood occurs, and if so, to what extent, and under what circumstances ? It is well known tliat this foramen has often been found open to a considerable extent in those in whom such a condition was Jiot suspected during life—I mean a much larger opening than the small oblique slit which is very often found at the upper part of the fossa ovalis. To understand this, let us first see how it is in the foetus. I believe it is the common idea that the foramen ovale is merely a hole from one auricle to the other, and that the riffht auricle drives the blood through it to the left. But it can- not be so. There is no reason to believe that the auricles do not fill and contract together as in the adult, and so also the ventricles. Now the right auricle would require to contract first, were the left filled by it through the foramen ovale, and thus at the same time the right ventricle would be filled before the left auricle had time to contract and distend the left ventricle. We must con- clude that the auricles and ventricles act synchronously as in the adult. The fact is, that the lower cava fills the left auricle just as the upper cava fills the right, both auricles being filled during their conjoint diastole and repose; and it may be that, after all, this is the purpose designed by the mode of entrance of the lower cava71 AND THE rCETAL HEART. and by the foramen ovale, as much as that the two cun-ents should be kept separate, in order that the purer blood may go to the upper half of the body. Whilst eitlier purpose separately would have required this arrangement, both are at the same time ao complished by it. In the foetus, then, the auricles being filled at the same time in this way, they contract; but no mixtui'e can occur at this time, as the valve of the oval hole wUl not allow any blood to pass back from left to right. Previous to the third month this does not hold, as the valve is not developed; but until then it may be said that the two auricles simply form one, the lower cava opening to the left side, the upper to the right. But what I desire to demonstrate is, that when the parts are well formed, as during the two latter thirds of foetal life, there is no exchange of blood between the two auricles from the mere existence of the foramen ovale; that the right auricle does not fill the left through the foramen ovale, nor does any regurgitate through it from left to right; but the left auricle is simply filled from the lower cava, as the right chiefly is fi'om the superior cava. Now, it appears to me that after birth it will be very much the same, when the foramen remains more or less open. Sup- posing that there is no contraction of the pulmonary orifice, which certainly would occasion the employment of the foramen ovale, still it appears to me that there cannot but be some amount of passage of venous blood into the left auricle, and this to a lesser or greater degree according as the valve is developed or not, as the lower cava still pours its stream in the direction of the aperture, through which it must partly pass, and encounter and mix with the blood still entering the auricle from the pul- monary veins. Still, the admixture occurs during the diastole and repose of the auricles, and is not from the cavity of the right auricle, but from the inferior cava; although this can make no difference on the symptoms or to the patient. Even in those common cases where there is a small oblique slit only, I do not see but that there must be some amount of ad- mixture. This occurs, it is well known, as often as in one out of every five or six subjects. There is usually (from the manner72 ON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE. in Avliich the valve shuts up the opening at birth) at the ujyper part of the fossa ovahs a recess, which occasionally pi-esents a small unclosed passage admitting a probe or even a quill. Of this I have brought a preparation, now before the Society, where a common quill readily passes through a very oblique passage, and along with it is seen a corded condition in front of the oval fossa, and an extremely reticular condition of an old Eustachian valve; and there is in my museum a preparation, taken from a female aged sixty, in which the aperture is twice this size ; also the Eustachian valve is lai'ge and strong. It is commonly re- marked, that this condition can allow of no admixture on account 'of the obliquity of the passage. But, whilst I am aware that obliquity of perforation is pi'oductive of a very perfect valvular effect, as in the case of the termination of the ureters and bile duct, the circumstances are reversed here. The force which shuts the oblique passage—the passive flow of the pulmonary blood into the left auricle—is not stronger than, and is not so direct as, the force which tends to open it—viz., the current of the lower cava; and as the direction of this is exactly in the direction of the slit, it seems to me that there cannot but be, during each diastole, a small quantity of venous blood sent into the left auricle. This, however, can be only to a very trifling extent, and would not, perhaps, be worthy of notice, were it not for the sake of fully reasoning out the effect of the various condi- tions of open foramen ovale.a. Ascending aorta, ending in right subclavian, and right and left common carotid arteries, b, Puhnoiiary artery, c, c, Brandies to luugs. d, Left subclavian artery, e, Descending aorta, f, Vena cava superior.CASE OF MALFORMATION OF THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE F(ETUS: PULMONARY ARTERY GIVING OFF DESCENDING AORTA AND LEFT SUBCLAVIAN. By DAVID GREIG, M.D., DEMONSTRATOB OF ANiTOMT IN THE UNIVEBSITT OF EDINBURGH. FBOM THE MONTHLY JOURNAL OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, JULY 1852. During the summer of 1850> having procured a foetus, which seemed to be about the ninth month, and wliic-h, on external ex- amination, presented nothing pecuHar with regard to form, colour, etc., I injected it from the umbilical vein. On examining the chest, I found the following arrangement of its blood-vessels :— The ascending aorta is small, passes straight up, and, after a course of about three-quarters of an iiich, terminates in three branches of eqlial size, which are the right subclavian, and the right and left common carotid arteries. The pulmonary artery is very large, measuring about half an inch (5-12ths) in diameter, being nearly twice that of the ascending aorta, the diameter of which is one quarter of an inch. After a course of half an inch, the pulmonary artery gives off the branches Avhich go to the 1 The fo1lowinofca.se is by my demonstrator, Da Greio. It is inserted liere as it was published witli the preceding: paper, and describes a very rare and interesting mal- formation. The case oi iginally foi'nied part of the prize essay on the Fcctal Circu- lation, Session 1850-51, in my class, in which Mr Greig was a distinjjuished student. The preparation is preserved in my museum.76 DR GREIG'S case OF Imigs, these arising from its back part and almost by a common trunk. A quarter of an inch further on, the j^ulmonary artery (or ductus arteriosus) gives off from its anterior and left side the left subclavian. The pulmonary artery, hitherto undimmished in size, now contracts rapidly to half its former size, and is con- tinued on as the descending aorta. There is thus no communi- cation between the ascending and descending aort^. The right and left subclavian arteries appear of equal diameter. The vente cavEe and pulmonary veins are normal. Heart.—On opening the ventricles, they are seen to communi- cate by a large aperture, arising from a deficiency of the septum ventriculorum at its upper part. The right ventricle is twice the size of the left, though its walls are at least not thicker than those of the latter. The pulmonary artery arises normally from the upper and anterior part of the right ventricle. The aorta arises exactly above the communication between the two ventricles, its mouth being equally visible from either cavity. The aperture of communication is of a rounded form, measuring one-thhd of an inch in diameter, bounded below and on each side by a smooth thick edge, and above by the opening of the aorta. The semilu- nar valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery are well developed and normal. The tricuspid orifice is three times the size of the mitral orifice. The right auricle appears to be dilated, whilst the left is about one-third the size of the right, and a little larger than its corresponding ventricle. The foramen ovale is normal, and its valve is fully formed ; but the passage remaining between the upper end of the foramen and the free border of the valve, ap- pears to be considerably smaller than that which is usually seen in the full grown fcBtus. Remarks.—As far as I am aware, no case has yet been re- corded in which the above remarkable abnormalities were com- bined. In the third volume of the " Library of Medicine," article " Malformations of the Heart," reference is made to two cases somewhat analogous. In the one, related by Sir A. Cooper, the pulmonary artery arose from both ventricles and furnished the descending aorta, the ascending aorta originating naturally In the second, related by M. Breschet, the left subclavian aroseMALFORMATION OP THE HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS. 77 directly from the pulmonary artery. In the ahove case, however, both of these conditions are combined. Had the malformation been confined to the blood-vessels alone, interesting inferences might have been drawn, with regard to the foetal circulation. There was no communication between the ascending and descending aortas; and this corresponds to the view commonly entertained, that the purer blood of the ascending aorta is distributed by th^ vessels which arise from the arch, whilst the descending aorta is filled with the less pui'e blood from the pulmonary arteiy. Again, it will be observed that the two superior extremities were supplied with blood from different sources, which, in the normal state of the heart, would have been of different qualities, whilst in no respect was there any difference in degree of development between the superior extremities. The additional complication, however, of such a large aperture be- tween the ventricles, must have established complete admixture of the blood of the two sides of the heart, before it was sent into the aorta and pulmonary artery, so that, independent of subse- quent abnormalities of the vessels, all parts of the body would be supphed with blood of the same quality.Fifj. 1—Long-!tudinal plan of the arteries of the trunk. The left side shows both the longitudinal and transverse anastomosing arteries of the wall; the right side only tlie longitudinal and diaphragmatic anastomoses belonging to the wall, and the vari- ous visceral arteries springing from the aorta. , Left Side.—1, Internal mammary; and 2, deep epigastric; connected behind to aorta by series of intercostal, lumbar, and diaphragmatic arteries. 3, Superficial epigastric. 4, Circumflex iliac. 5, llio-lumbar from internal iliac. Right Side.— Branches of abdominal aorta, from above downwards; diaphragmatic, coeliac axis, superior mesenteric, right supra-renal and renal, right spermatic or ova- rian, and inferior mesenteric. Fig. 2.— Transverse plan of the arteries of the abdomen opposite to liver, spleen, and stomach. 1, Aorta, giving off from its back part the arteries (2, 2) for the wall, which unite in front with branches of the internal mammary arteries (3, 3). 4, Coeliac axis, coming from front of aorta, and supplying spleen, stomacli, and liver, the latter also receiving the vena portaj. Fig. 3. The same, lower down, showing portion of small intestine and sections of ascending and descending colon and of kidneys. 1, Aorta, giving off, behind, the lum- bar arteries (2, 2), which join in front with branches of the deep epigastric (3, 3). In front, as if coming from the aorta at the same part, are shown the superior and infe- rior mesenteric, and at the sides the renal arteries. Fig. 1 shows tlie order in which these visceral arteries come off at different stages of the aorta, and their relative size. The anatomist will notice that it is chiefly the anastomosing branches of the arte- ries of the wall which arc shown, and also that these are represented proportionally larger than natural.VII. ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE MODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTIXG IN AFFECTIONS OF THE INTERNAL VISCERA. [Read before the Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Society, February 17,186 and extracted from the Monthlt Journal of Medical Science, April 1853.] My object in the following observations is, to inquire into the mode in which local blood-letting can be of service in affections of the internal viscera. The practice generally followed in this country is, to apply leeches or to cup over the affected part, whether in the trunk or limbs; and it will be generally admitted- that this is done with the view of affording special relief to the affected part, by the more or less direct withdrawal of blood from its distended blood- vessels,—that is to say, in following this practice it is generally believed that the blood-letting is a local, and not a general, one. Before proceeding with this inquiry, I shall assume two points as the groundwork of my argument. 1. That the relief in local blood-letting is through the blood-vessels or vascular system, and not through nervous agency; and 2. That, as blood can come from one part to another only by blood-vessels, there can be no special relief by local blood-letting, unless the blood-vessels of the one communicate or anastomose with the blood-vessels of the other. It is evident, therefore, that this inquiry must be founded on a80 ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE careful consideration of the arrangement of the blood-vessels of these parts. In following out these principles in the endeavour to discover the modus operandi of local blood-letting, we notice that there is a wide difference between the local blood-lettings practised by the surgeon in affections of the limbs and external parts, and those by the physician in affections of the internal viscera. In the former parts, the blood-vessels communicate more or less directly fi'om the surface inwards to the affected part, and we can therefore easily understand how leeches, applied, for instance, over the knee or ankle, can afford direct relief to the distended vessels in or about these jomts. But in the latter parts there are no such communications. The interaal viscera of the chest and abdomen on the one hand, and the walls which enclose them on the other, are supplied with blood from enth'ely different sources, and the two sets of blood-vessels do not communicate with each other except through the general circulation, or, what is the same thing, through the parent trunk; and it would there- fore appear that we cannot specially relieve these internal viscera, or any one of them, by local blood-letting. I shall now demonstrate this by referring briefly to the sources of vascular supply to the viscera and walls of the abdominal and thoracic and cranial cavities. 1. The Abdomen.—Here the viscera are supplied from be- hind, and solely by large arterial trunks, which spring from the front and sides of the aorta. The spleen, liver, pancreas, stomach, and duodenum, are supplied by the coeliac axis, the rest of the small intestines, and first half of the great, by the superior mesenteric ai-tery, and the remainder of the great bowel by the inferior mesenteric, down near to the anus. The kidneys receive their blood entirely by the corresponding renal artery, direct from the aorta, and return it direct to the vena cava by the renal vein, whilst the blood returned from the other organs above named is again distributed to the liver by the vena port£e before it is returned to the vena cava. Thus, to generalise, all the viscera of the abdomen receive81 MODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. their blood from behind direct from the aorta, and return it, directly or indirectly, to the vena cava,—an abdominal circula- tion by itself from the aorta to the vena cava, and that without any communication with the wall of the cavity, except indirectly through the parent trunks, the aorta and vena cava. To this one exception must be noticed,—viz., the anastomosis along the rectum and down to the anus, by which the vessels of the perineum communicate freely with branches of the superior hemorrhoidal artery and vein; the artery communicating freely with the arteries along the intestine in the abdomen, whilst the vein communicates with the other pelvic veins, and, passing up, joins the splenic vein, whence its blood is conveyed to the liver. Tliis arrangement has led to the French practice of applying leeches to the perineum to relieve the abdominal viscera, and, so far as anatomy is concerned, there are good grounds for its adop- tion, as indeed the only means by which a local blood-letting for the alimentary part of the abdominal viscera can be practised; but the further discussion of this point does not form part of the present inquiry. The wall of the abdomen is supplied from altogether different sources, from above, from below, and from behind. Behind, from the aorta, come the lumbar, and lower intercostal, and diaphrag- matic arteries. Below, fi-om the internal iliac comes the ilio- lumbar branch, from the external iliac close to the groin, the circumflex iliac, and deep epigastric; and from the common femoral the superficial epigastric, from which the skin of the front of the abdomen is chiefly supplied. Lastly, fi-om above, there is the end of the internal mammary branch of the subclavian. All of these arteries are accompanied by veins which return the blood to the venous tnuiks, corresponding to the arteiial trunks, from which the branches are supplied. Thus the abdo- minal wall is supplied with blood fi-om the subclavian and iliac arteries, and fi-om the aortic trunk itself; but these branches from the aortic trunk do not communicate with the visceral branches from the same trunk. It is evident, therefore, that any increased flow of blood along these parietal arteries cannot act on one visceral artery more than on another, nor indeed on any FANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE 82 of tliese visceral branches, except simply by a diminution of the general current within the aorta. The kidney is perhaps the best example with which to illus- trate this argument. Lying in its bed of fat and cellular tissue, it has no vascular connections but by its arteiy from the aorta and its vein to the vena cava. It can, therefore, be reached and acted on through the renal artery and vein only, and these only through the aorta or vena cava circulating the general ciuTent, and any diminution of this general current could not tell on the current to or from the kidney more than on that to the stomach or the lower extremity. There cannot, therefore, be a local blood-letting for the kidney; it can be influenced only through the aorta or vena cava—that is, through the general cii'culation. The same remark applies to the other abdominal viscera already named, and we are, therefore, shut up to the conclusion, that, to these, blood-letting on the abdominal wall acts as a general, and not as a local blood-letting, as it must not only fail to act on any particular oi'gan, but it does not appear how it can even relieve the circulation within the abdomen more than that of the hand or foot. 2. The Chest.—The same line of argument is applicable to the chest. The wall and viscera are supplied from different sovirces, and the blood-vessels of the two do not communicate in their distribution. The heart is supplied solely by the two coronary arteries, wrhich arise from the aorta immediately above its valves. We can, therefore, have no special command over the supply of blood to the substance of the heart. The lungs are entirely separated from the wall by the pleui-al cavities, being attached only by their root, through which the blood-vessels pass. The lung has two sets of blood-vessels, the large pulmonary and the small bronchial arteries and veins. The former we assume to be concerned chiefly in the conditions refer- red to as congestion of the lung and pneumonia, whilst the dis- tribution of the bronchial arteries renders the inference a fairMODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. 83 one, that they are the vessels concerned in affections of the bronchial membrane,—that is, the one set of vessels appear to be chiefly concerned in pneumonia, and the other in bronchitis- Now, it is evident that blood taken from the wall of the chest cannot drain or derivate from the pulmonary system of vessels, but can influence them only by acting through the general circu- lation, and that by lessening the quantity of blood to be returned to the right side of the heart and thence sent to the lungs. But it may be said, that the pulmonary vessels may be relieved by means of their, anastomosis with the bronchial vessels. As to the nature or even existence of such communications between the two sets of vessels of the lung, anatomists are not quite agreed, although the result of minute injections has led most to believe that the deeper set of the bronchial vessels, ramifying on the smaller bronchial tubes, do communicate with the pulmonary capillaries or veins. Very little weight can be attached to an explanation depending on this obscure anatomical point; but supposing, for the sake of argument, that the pulmonary veins could be drained to a slight extent by drawing blood from the bronchial veins, this again could be of no service unless these veins themselves can be locally acted on from without. Is it, then, in our power to relieve the bronchial vessels by local blood- letting ? The arteries are usually three in number,—two on the left side, which spring from the thoracic aorta, and usually one for the right side, which may arise either from the aorta, or in common with or from the first aortic intercostal artery of this side. In such an argument it is scarcely worth while to mention the occasional varieties of these arteries in their origin, nor prob- ably would physicians be disposed to explain any supposed benefit from local blood-letting by referring to the occasional or frequent origin of the right bronchial artery from one of the arteries going to the wall. The bronchial arteries, then, must be regarded as deriving their blood direct from the aorta, so that they could not be reheved either by draining or derivation in local blood-letting to the wall, this serving merely to draw off so much more blood from the general current of the aorta, exactly as in the case of the abdominal aorta in leeching the abdominal wall. Nor couldANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE 84 local blood-letting to the side or back relieve the bronchial veins. These end on the right side in the vena azygos, on the left in the left superior intercostal vein, on its way to terminate in the left innominate or in the lesser azygos vein. Now these same azygos and superior intercostal veins receive the blood returned from the side and back of the chest by the ordinary intercostal veins. But, in order to relieve the bronchial veins throuffh the inter- costals, the current in the latter would require to be reversed, which local blood-letting would scarcely produce, even although the intercostal veins were not, as they are, provided with valves. The wall of the chest is suppHed from various sources, cliiefly by the aortic intercostal arteries, which spring separately from the back part of the aorta. The other arteries come chiefly from the subclavian. The superior intercostal supplies the first inter- costal space; the internal mammary the anterior part of the thoracic wall, coursing down behind the cartilages of the ribs; the posterior scapular partly supplies the sui'face of the upper part of the back, where, however, the chief vessels come fi-om the pos- terior divisions of the aortic intercostals ; and lastly, the axillary aspect of the chest and the pectoral region ai'e supplied from the outside by the thoracic branches of the axillary artery; and all of these arteries are accompanied by corresponding veins. When, therefore, blood is drawn from any part of the thoracic wall, it comes either from the subclavian or axillary arteries, on the one hand, or, on the other, the thoracic intercostal arteries, the latter springing from the back part of the aorta, so that any increased flow by them would simply diminish the general volume and current within that vessel We see, therefore, that the vessels of the lungs can be reheved through the general circulation only, either, on the one hand, by a little derivation from the general current in the aorta, but which will not relieve the lungs more than the lower extremities; or, on the other, by lessening the quantity of blood returned by the veins to the right side of the heart. I think, then, it has now been sufficiently shown that local blood-letting on the chest cannot act on the heai-t and lungs ex- cept as a general blood-letting, and that there is, therefore, noMODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. «5 stich thing, in the proper sense of the term, as local blood-letting for these organs. Reflections of the Serous Membranes from the Walls to the Viscera. —To render complete the demonstration of the absence of com- munication between the blood-vessels of the walls and those of the viscera of the chest and abdomen, it is necessary that I should notice the connection between the viscera and the wall by means of the reflections of the serous membranes, as it might be supposed that by these a means of affording local vascular relief is established. In tbe abdomen the peritoneum is reflected from the wall on to the viscera at various places. On each side it is reflected on to the ascending and descending colon, so as to leave their poste- rior third or fourth uncovered and in contact with the posterior wall. But it is not the conductor of vessels between the wall and the colon. It possesses its own nutrient vessels only, and the vessels of the colon are derived from the colic branches of the mesenteric arteries which do not anastomose with the vessels of the wall, as they run outwards behind the peritoneum to reach the intestine. The liver is connected to the diaphragm by means of its suspen- sory and posterior ligaments, each consisting of a double reflection of peritoneum ; and these, as described by Harrison, contain minute blood-vessels, derived from the internal mammary and diaphrag- matic arteries. But these blood-vessels are minute, and their distribution is very limited, supplying at most but a small region of the coats of the liver where it is joined by its serous ligaments; and I am not aware that any connection has ever been demonstrated by injection between these minute vessels and the proper internal blood-vessels of the viscus. Besides, these vessels come from the diaphragm only, the vessels of which again are but very remotely connected with those of the skin of the trunk; and, even sup- posing that these minute vessels did join with those of the liver, physicians will probably not be disposed to look to them as affording an explanation of the relief from local blood-letting, any more than to the additional fact, that often one, or occasionally both, of the diaphragmatic arteries may arise from the coeliacANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE 86 axis, instead of separately from the aorta; or to attribute the benefit derived from leeching the epigastrium, in a supposed affection of the stomach, to any minute anastomosis that might obtain between the blood-vessels of the diaphragm and oesopha- gus, as the latter is passing through its aperture in the former, an inch previous to its termination in the stomach. In the chest the pleurse are reflected from the wall to the viscera in the formation of the mediastina. On the lung the pleura is supplied as part of the lung, and on the wall as part of the wall; and it might be supposed that relief might be con- ducted from one to the other along these reflections. But I am not aware that any part of the pleuras is occupied by conducting vessels, or supplied with more than it requires for its own nourish- ment, these being derived from the vessels of the part on which the membrane is lying. The reflection forming the posterior mediastinum is the shorter of the two. It is supplied with nutrient arteries from the thoracic aorta. The pleura fonning the anterior mediastinum is supplied from the mammary arteries. It then passes on to the pericardium, and behind this it joins the pulmonic pleura by a narrow imion only, as it envelops the root of the lung. But there are here no conducting vessels that I know of; none beyond those which enter the membrane to nourish it; and even if taking blood from the front of the chest did, by derivation, cause a determination along the pleura of the anterior mediastinum, the relief would be to the pericardium. The same view applies to the reflection of the serous pericar- dium on to the great vessels near the heart; and again to the reflections of the arachnoid membrane, near the free margins of the falx cerebri and tentorium cerebelli, around the cerebral veins as they pass across to the longitudinal sinus, and around the nerves at the base. The reflections, therefore, of the serous membranes cannot be regarded as establishing a medium through which the blood- vessels of the viscera can be relieved. 3. The Head.—The question here is, can the vessels of the brain be specially relieved by local blood-letting on the head?MODE or ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. « i We observe that here also there is a serous cavity between the wall and the contained viscus. The parts internal to this cavity are supplied by the internal carotid and vertebral arteries; whilst those outside, viz., the dura mater, the skull, and the ex- ternal parts, are supplied by the external carotid. Now the ar- teries of the brain and pia mater do not communicate with those outside the arachnoid cavity, but it is different with the veins, I do not here refer to any minute anastomosis between the peri- osteum on the outside, and the dura mater, or internal periosteum, on the inside, whilst the latter at the same time lodges the re- turning veins from the brain; nor to the venous canals in the diploe, for these chiefly open internally; but I refer to the direct communications, by^means of what we term the emissary veins, which occupy the parietal and mastoid foramina. By these veins the longitudinal and lateral sinuses may directly empty themselves into the veins of the scalp. This is more especially the case with the mastoid communication, which may be looked upon as a kind of safety opening by which the lateral sinus may be relieved; and this sinus, it will be recollected, receives the entire blood from the brain, and also from the orbit. There is another communication between the veins of the scalp and the cranial sinuses, by means of the ophthalmic vein, which externally connnunicates freely with the veins of the eye- brow and temple, and internally joins the caveriious sinus; but to afford internal relief by this communication, the natural direc- tion of the current in the ophthalmic vein would require to be reversed, which probably could not be effected by anything less than a fi'ee opening in the angular vein. It would appear, then, from anatomy, that, by leeching the scalp, especially behind the ear, the sinuses of the diira mater and veins of the brain may be relieved, and that as directly, though not so rapidly, as by the method of opening the external jugnilar vein at the root of the neck. The common practice of cupping on the back of the neck, with the view of specially relieving the brain or head, is no doubt ge- nerally, or in great part, efficacious, simply as a slow or mild general blood-letting; but is at the same time not without anato-°° ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE mical recommendation as a local blood-letting. The mastoid communication from the lateral sinuses is to the occipital veins, aiid these communicate freely with the veins of the back of the neck; and also the arterial supply to the back of the neck, de- rived from the deep cervical and occipital arteries, has free com- munications with the posterior muscular twigs which the verte- bral arteries give off during their ascent to the brain. I do not, therefore, propose to include the brain amongst the internal viscera which cannot be specially relieved by local blood- letting, although at the same time it is not necessarily so from the mere fact of its lying inside opposite to where the treatment IS applied externally. Besides, we must recollect that here also there is the uncertainty of diagnosis in many cases, so that the affection we are treating may be situated either partially or en- tirely outside the arachnoid cavity; and even did no communica- tion .whatever exist between the blood-vessels of the internal and external parts here, so that no relief could take place by direct draining, it by no means follows that the practice of applying leeches to the scalp may not afford special relief to the brain, on the principle of derivation, or lessening the arterial currents to the organ within. Before leaving this part of the subject, it is well to remark, that ill these considerations I have not overlooked the question as to the non-variation of the quantity of blood, or at least of fluid, within the cranium. It would be out of place for me to enter on this question here, and I shall, therefore, merely remark, that, whilst I am one of those who cannot understand how the quantity of fluid within the cranium can vary, until it can be proved that the brain can be compressed, i.e., diminished in bidk, by any force that the heart is capable of exerting, I at the same time hold, that we ought not to allow this question to influence om* practice. Whichever view be coiTect, we have still the same principles to contend with in practice; we have, in both, increased or diminished pressure, and, in both, increased or diminished rapidity of the circulation; and it therefore appears to me that those are in error who suj)pose that this question should influence our practice or our reasoning thereon.MODE or ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. 89 It appeal's, then, that local blood-letting cannot affect the viscera in the abdomen or chest, except through the general cir- culation; and that, therefore, these blood-lettings afe general and not local, according to the ordinaiy sense in which the term local blood-letting is employed. Modes in ivhich Local Blood-letting may act.—Bx\t, although it be granted that leeching the wall cannot draw blood directly from tlie affected discus, some may be cUsposed to hold that it may still afford to it special relief by what is called revulsion or derivation, this being the principle, or supposed principle, which guides those continental practitioners who apply the leeches not over or close to any affected part, but at a distance from it. By these terms they mean to express the view, that the result of local abstraction is to draw more blood to the bleeding part, and thus diminish the supply elsewhere. Without meaning to dispute the correctness of this view within certain limits, it may be remarked, on the modus operandi of all local blood-lettings, that they may act in two ways. 1. By the direct abstraction of blood through the anastomosing vessels between the affected and the bleeding part, and it matters not whether this be by the veins or the communicating arteries: this we may call draining. And, 2. By lessening the quantity going to the affected part, by creating an increased flow or determina- tion elsewhere. This is the revulsion or derivation of authors, and we may call it counter-draining. Now it is evident that to be of local and special benefit, this practice must not be applied too far from the affected part; the farther it is, the more it will lose its effect, and degenerate, so to speak, into a general blood-letting. It is probable that in most true local blood-lettings there is relief in both of these ways; but can it be so in the case of the abdominal and thoracic viscera? That there can be no draining I have already shown; and it appears to me, that neither can there be any derivation or counter-draining from these viscera. The blood taken from the abdominal and thoracic walls comes from the iliac and femoral, or subclavian and axillary arteries, or from the back part of the aorta. Now this cannot lessen the circulation into the visceralANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE arteries more tlian into those of the leg or arm. Nor can the effect which it has on the general current within the aorta bear more upon one viscus than another. - It must therefore be held, that the abstraction of blood from the wall of the abdomen or chest cannot in any way, or according to any principle, be regarded, as far as specially influencing the contained viscera or any one of them is concerned, in any other light than as a general blood-letting. Conclusions.—I next proceed to inquire whether these con- siderations should lead us to alter the common practice of blood- letting in affections of the internal viscera ? Now, notwithstanding what has been said, it is nevertheless not difficult to show, that the prudent and proper practice still is to apply the treatment over the affected part. This is because we cannot bp sm'e of the exact situation and limits of the disease. There is pain as if in the liver. Is the affection one of the liver itself, or of one of the serous layers of the diaphragm, or of the pai'ietal peritoneum ? There is pain as if in the kidney. Is it in the kidney, or in some part of the wall, or in both ? We cannot be sure, and thei'efore we must treat the affection as a regional one—as an affection of, or in, the right hypochondriac region in the one case, and of the lumbar region in the other. If the viscus alone be affected, the blood drawn from over it will at least relieve it as much as a similar quantity taken from some other part would do; and, if the wall also should be affected, or be the entire seat of the disease, the patient, without running the risk of missing a better practice, has had the benefit of the doubt. The same remarks apply to the chest. Local blood-letting must have the same direct effect in pleuritis that it has in peri- tonitis, the membrane in either case forming part of the wall; and can the practitioner be sure that the parietal pleura is not involved as well as the lung? The pericardium, again, receives part of its vascular supply from the internal mammary arteries, and it is therefore in our power to derivate from this part by leeching the front of the chest. We must therefore come to the conclusion, that, in treat-MODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. 91 ing afiFections of the viscera of tlie abdomen and chest, it is best tolake the blood from over the painful or affected part, ground- ing, however, the locahzation of our practice, not on the vague belief that we can thereby specially relieve the viscus, but on the uncertainty of diagnosis, which leaves us unable to say whether the wall also is affected or not. But whilst this may be laid down as the general rule, which may be safely followed by all in all cases, it is at the same time to be remarked, that cases may occur in which it is the object of the practitioner simply to lessen the quantity of blood in a con- gested or over-active viscus ; and after he has duly exercised his judgment in the matter, I think enough has been said to prove that then he may cup or leech on any part he chooses, or instead, take an equal quantity from the arm, or from a vein in some other situation, resting assured that it is only on the principle of a general blood-letting that these internal viscera can be acted upon. It may be urged that experiments of this kind are not war- rantable ;—first. Because, on my own showing, the blood-letting from over the painful part will prove at least equally beneficial with one from any other part, whilst the rule is simple as a ge- neral guide to the practitioner, besides being more likely to en- sure the confidence of the patient; and, second. Because expe- rience has led to the adoption of the local practice. To this it may be answered, that experience has by no means proved the superiority of the local over the general blood-letting in affections of the internal viscera. We can readily understand how expe- rience may have established the superiority of the local blood- letting in affections of the chest and abdomen generally, because we know that in a large number of them the pleura and ])erito- neum are involved to our certain knowledge; whilst in those cases where we with equal certainty know the viscera to be affected, we do not know but that the atfection may also in part involve the wall. But experience has not yet declared that two or four ounces of blood taken from over the kidney, or liver, or lung, will afford more relief to these viscera than two or four ounces taken from the hand or foot, or by venesection from the92 ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE bend of the arm. All that experience can be held to have de- clared is, that a certain quantity of blood taken there is produc- tive of a certain amount of benefit; but experience has yet to declare, whether similar benefit may not be derived by drawing the same quantity of blood from some other part. The advantages that would attend this alteration .in practice in such cases would be the substitution of a more simple and less expensive procedure, as by taking the blood from a small open- ing in some vein, as for instance, on the back of the hand or foot; or, if leeching or cupping be still followed, it could be done with- out the lengthened exposure of the chest and abdomen, during which the patient is exposed to the influence of cold. I Say, therefore, with reference to the abdominal and thoracic viscera, in a case in which the practitioner feels assured that the affection is limited to the organ, it would appear that it matters not where or how he bleeds, according to circumstances he may take his choice, both of the part and the mode, feeling assured, that from whatever part he takes the blood, whether by the leech, the cupping-glass, or the lancet, he will reach the affected organ only by having withdrawn so much blood from the general cir- culation. The same line of argument, it is evident, may be pursued with regard to the other parts of local treatment in affections of the chest and abdomen, more especially to counter-mitation, only, however, in as far as this and other remedial means have their action through the blood-vessels and the cu-culation. But the farther discussion of this matter would lead me beyond my pur- pose, which was simply to demonstrate from anatomy the conclu- sions which I have already drawn. [Note. MarcJi 1854.—The satisfaction which I have derived from the favourable reception of the above paper at the Medic o- Chirurgical Society, and since its publication, has been lessened by finding some to be under the impression that 1 had written to prove that local blood-letting was of no use in affections of the abdomen and chest, and, consequently, that the practice of the present day was wrong. But a perusal of the paper will showMODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. 93 that I have come to the exactly opposite conclusion,—that " the prudent and proper practice still is, to apply the treatment over the affected part." The conclusions I have dravra on anatomical grounds, which are not matters of opinion, but matters of fact, may be shortly stated thus:— 1. Local blood-lettings on the chest or abdomen are truly so, as far as the wall is concerned, but can act upon the viscera only on the principle of general blood-letting. 2. But that it is proper to continue the local practice, because the wall is often affected along with the viscus, to our certain knowledge, and we are often unable to decide whether the wall is not in whole or in part the seat of the disease. 3. And that, therefore, the physician is not at liberty to depart from the local practice, unless he could be certain that the affec- tion was Hmited to the viscus.]1 have preserved the nerves from both orbits, as dried preparations, and the above is an exact copy of those of the left side, the individual filaments being also repre- sented. 6. Sixth nerve, split at its union to (s) the sympathetic, and ending in filaments (/) to the external rectus muscle. 3. Third nerve, joined to the sixth by the communicating branch which existed on tills side. (ft) Upper division of third nerve ending in filaments to superior rectus and levator palpebrce. (6) Branches of third nerve to internal rectus. (c) Ditto to inferior rectus. (d) Ditto to inferior oblique. 5. Nasal branch of fifth nei"ve, giving long root of ganglion, and long ciliary nerves. (g) Ophthalmic or ciliary ganglion ; receiving short root from the branch of the third to the inferior oblique, and long root from nasal branch of fifth; and giving short ciliary nerves. (e) Short and long ciliary nerves, with <in anastomotic loop between two of them. On this side, seventeen ciliary nerves were dissected where they pierce the eye. The third nerve is small relatively to the sixth and nasal, as this was the paralysed side. Also the ciliary ganglion is now shrunk a little from the original size, and ap- pears smaller than that body usually is when recent and moist. Dissections of the nerves of the orbit, and especially of the ganglion and its con- nexions, may be easily preserved as dried preparations; and an instructive series may be thus conveniently put up. After being carefully removed, they are to be laid out wet and placed correctly with needles, or the point of the scalpel, on paper; and when dry, they are easily raised stifle, and gummed down on board. I have many such preparations, amongst others, one of all the nerves of the orbit, with portions of the muscles, from tlie calf, laid down in this way, showing also the fifth nerve supply- ing filaments to the muscles of the eye.YIII. DISSECTION OF THE ORBITS IN A. CASE OF PAEALTSIS OE THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE; WITH REMARKS ON CERTAIN VARIETIES OF THE MOTOR NERVES. [Read before the Edinburgh Medico-Chikurgical Society ; and extracted from the Monthly Journal of Medical Science, July 1853.] I HAVE thought it worth while to give an account of this case, as I had the opportunity of observing it carefully in its various stages, and of making a complete dissection of all the parts concerned. The patient was a man aged 73. When I saw him first, on September 16, 1852, tlie following symptoms presented them- selves in connection with the left eye:—Tlie upper eyelid was completely fallen, and without any motion. When the lid was held up, the eye was seen to be a little prominent and a little everted. The eye could not be moved upwards or downwards or inwards, but it could be moA'ed freely in the outward direction. The rotatory motion described by Dr Jacob as visible in such cases, was distinctly seen when the patient was directed to look downwards. It is a delicate rotatory motion, in a direction to bring the top of the eye round towards the inside, and perhaps also a little forwards, the whole being like a vibration of the eye in that direction. The pupil was enlarged to about twice the size of the other, and also fixed, even under the strongest light, whilst the otlierDISSECTION OF THE ORBrtS IN A CASE OF 96 moved readily. The vision of the eye was good, and apparently unaffected by the attack, and its common sensibility was un- impaired. The falling of the eyelid was noticed a fortnight before, one morning, after he had been sitting in the open air the previous evening, in his usual health. The diagnosis was evident. The unaltered vision and unim- paired common sensibility of the eye and forehead, showed that the optic nerve and the fifth pair were unaffected. The power to move the eye outwards, and the somewhat everted position, showed that tbe sixth or abducens nerve was not involved. The loss of power was in the parts supplied by the third or common motor oculi nerve,—the levator muscle of the lid, the superior, inferior, and internal recti muscles, and the fibres of the iris by which contraction of the pupil is effected. We have no very decided indication of the result of paralysis of the inferior oblique, the remaining muscle supplied by the third nerve. The rotatory motion already referred to may, however, be looked upon in this light. According to the view, which I have brought evidence to establish, in my papers on the muscles and nerves of tlie eye, that the use of the oblique muscles is to turn the eye more or less directly on its antero-posterior axis, we can explain this rotatory motion on the supposition that it is occasioned by the action of the superior oblique, unopposed by the action of the inferior oblique, which must be paralysed along witli the other muscles supplied by the third pair. The treatment in this case consisted in the application of blisters to the nape, and a mild mercurial course, with the use of occasional laxatives, under which a gradual improvement of the symptoms connected with the paralysis took place. Towards the end of October (two months after the commencement of the attack) the eyelid could be raised about a third, and there wrs evident power of inversion and depression, but the pupil still remained dilated and fixed. Soon after this the iris also began to regain its power of con- tracting the pupil. By the middle of November the pupils were equal, and equally contractile, the left having returned to thePARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. 97 original size of the right. The eyelid could be raised so as to show half of the cornea. The inferior rectus had regained nearly all its power, the internal rectus acted moderately, and the superior rectus least. The rotatory motion was not now per- ceptible. The improvement on the motions followed the mild action of the mercury on the gums. An indolent ulcer formed on the cornea of the other eye, and there was considerable chronic oph- thalmia, especially of the right eye, with flaky discharge, and also some ophthalmia tarsi; all of which improved under the use of the nitrate of silver and the red oxide of mercury ointment. It will be observed, that the ulceration and chief inflammation aff'ected the right eye. Had these occurred on the left or para^ lysed side, the erroneous inference might have been drawn, that the paralysis had injured the nutrition of the eye, as is known to occur when the fifth pair of nerves is paralysed. The eye symptoms continued to improve up to December 5th, when my brother was suddenly summoned to see the patient on account of an apoplectic seizure. He was not completely para- lytic or comatose, but gradually became so, and died next day, about thirty hours after the seizure. The post-mortem examination had an additional interest from the previous history of the patient. About ten years before, lie had an attack of hemiplegia of the right side, from which he re- covered in a few weeks, so as to be able to walk, but it was longer before he regained the use of the hand for writing. For several years back, although he has had no actual paralytic seizure, there were several threatenings of them; indeed, on one occasion he was found insensible, but recovered in a few hours after free venesection. FoiTuerly, he was a man, well known in his day, of strong and active intellect, though wanting in the higher qualities of mind. For several years back he has, however, been an invalid, and latterly partially imbecile. Long under the care of my brother in Leith, he was also much indebted to the kind attentions of Dr Alison. Post-mortem examination 48 hours after death. Present—Dr James Struthers, Mr Doig, and myself. GDISSECTION OF THE ORBITS IN A CASE OF 98 Brain.—About four ounces of serous fluid escaped when the brain wasbeiiig removed. Convolutions slightly flattened. Lateral ventricles distended by clear serum, the right to three times, the left to twice the natural size. The foramen of Monro nearly ad- mitted the point of the little finger. Pacchionian bodies large, and pia mater generally slightly congested. The whole of the cerebral hemispheres and cerebellum were carefully sliced, but no trace of former or recent disease could be seen. After the removal of the arteries at the base, and the escape of all the fluid, the brain weighed 51| ounces. We next examined the nerves at Hie base. Pia mater between crura cerebri a little thickened and opaque, as if from infiltration of serum, but there was no lymph. Trunks of internal carotid arteries slightly atheromatous. At its origin, it is known that the third nerve lies close between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries, so close that one of the old anatomists supposed the heaviness of the eyes in sleep to be due to the distended arteries pressing on the nerve. Now, the third nerve on the right side seemed so closely embraced by these two arteries, that had this been the paralysed side, it might have been supposed to have been the cause of the paralysis; but on the paralysed side the arteries lay at some distance from the nerve. All the nerves, including the other two motor oculi nerves, were healthy and equal on the two sides, except the third or common motor oculi nerve. On the left side it was fully one-third smaller than on the right, and was of a brownish-yellow colour, all the others being of a pure white. The origin of the third nerves was carefully examined at and below the surface, but no differ- ence could be detected, nor was any trace of disease apparent in the crura cerebri, pons, or quadrigeminal bodies. Under the microscope, the nerve tubes from the left third nerve were about half the size of those from the right, also less distinct, and pro- portionally more mixed up with filamentous tissue. Dissection of the Orbits.—The straight muscles supplied by the paralysed nerve were evidently somewhat wasted, and on weigh- ing their fleshy portions, were found to be lighter than those on the right side; the levator palpebrae one grain; rectus superior.PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. 99 and rectus interims, each half a grain ; rectus inferior two and a half grains, less than on the right side. Each oblique muscle seemed to be of equal weight with its fellow on the other side ; and the left external rectus weighed one grain more than the right. I made a careful dissection of all the nerves of both orbits, but will confine myself here to a general notice of these. The troch- leator and abducens nerves were healthy and of equal size on the two sides. The common motor ocuH nei-ve generally was smaller on the left than on the right side, both on the cavernous sinus and orbit. The upper was about one-half, and the lower division about a fourth or fifth smaller than on the right side. The ophthalmic ganglion and ciliary nerves were examined. The ciliary nerves appeared equally large on the paralysed side. On the left side seventeen, and on the right fifteen separate ciliary nerves were dissected entering the eye, eleven of these on each side being short ciliary, or derived from the ganglion. The ganglion on the left side was of the usual size and form, but on the right side it appeared to be smaller. This was perhaps due to its irregular shape. It was elongated more upwards than forwards, and the lower anterior angle was prolonged some dis- tance before it divided into nerves. Whilst the long root re- sembled that of the other side, the motor root on the right side was shorter than usual. On the whole, it had at least the ap- pearance of being smaller than the other, and smaller than the ganglion usually is, and had this been on tlie left side, we might have concluded that the ganglion had, as we should expect, wasted under the paralysis of the third nerve. The result of the dissection may be summed up briefly, that death was occasioned by what is usually termed serous apoplexy. That the third nerve generally, and the muscles supplied by it, were somewhat wasted, and that no special cause could be found, the serum effused at the base not lying more in the way of the left nerve than the right. The motions having returned to a considerable extent, we could hardly expect to find anything more, and the case may be regarded as one of those usually designated rheumatic, and probably arising from exposure to cold, like the more common cases of paralysis of the fiice, and as in100 DISSECTION OF THE ORBITS IN A CASE OF another case of paralysis of the eye, wliich I saw lately. The attack in this case also came on suddenly after exposure to cold. The whole of the common motor oculi nerve is paralysed, espe- cially the upper division, there being only slight power in the parts supplied by the lower division of the nerve. The sixth nerve also is completely paralysed, and probably also the fourth, as the eye remains straight and motionless. Vision is good, at least when the patient is made to look through a small hole in a card, to make up for the enlarged and paralysed condition of the pupil. This patient, however, has no other complaint, and is likely to do well, as may be expected of most of those cases in which the paralysis is local, and has come on suddenly after ex- posure to cold. Remarks on an occasional Connection between the Tliird and Sixth Nerves, and supposed Influence of the latter on the Iris. •—In the course of the dissection, I met with an interesting variety in the anatomy of the motor nerves on the paralysed side. The third and sixth nerves were joined to each other in the cavernous sinus by a large communicating branch, and the third nerve close behind and at the ciliary ganglion supplied a distinct white nervous filament to the external rectus muscle. As this case might be added to the hst of cases in which it has been said ^ that the sixth nerve gave a branch to the third, and thus was enabled to move the iris after the third nerve was para- lysed, I may take the opportunity of examining into this view. A connection, more or less direct, between the sixth nerve and the ciliary ganglion has been noticed by various anatomists. Otto 2 found the nasal nerve, which furnishes the long root of the ganglion, coming from the sixth. Petit ^ says that the sixth nerve may join the third or the nasal of the fifth, and thus send filaments to the ciliary ganglion. Longet has once seen a veiy distinct branch fi:om the sixth nerve to the ciliary ganglion ; and states that Mr Grant of New York has informed him he has seen 1 Longet. Anat. and Phys. du Systeme Norveux, ii. p. 388. Also Kirkes' Hand- Book of Physiology. 1851. P. 439. 2 Valentin de Functionibus Nervorum, p. lU. ^ Longet Op. Cit., p. 380.PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. 101 1 Longet, Op. Git., p. 380. ' Descriptive Anat., p. 1106. it several times, having been led to the research by observing a case of paralysis of the third nerve in which the motions of the pupil remained, and, on dissection, a branch was found proceed- ing from the sixth nerve to the ophthalmic ganglion. Again, a du-ect communication between the sixth and third nei-ves has been noticed by Munnicks,^ and Cruveilhier^ states that it appears to him there is a communication between these two nerves in the cavernous sinus. The case now under consideration furnishes the third instance in which I have met with this variety. The first two occurred in 1844. In both it existed on one side only. The preparation of one of these is still preserved, and shows a distinct filament fi'om the sixth nerve entering the commencement of the lower division of the thu-d nerve. In the present case the communica- tion was very distinct on the left or paralysed side. As seen in the woodcut, p. 94, it was by a short flattened band about a line in length, and about half the size of a healthy upper division of the third nerve. It passed nearly at right angles between the nerves, joining the trunk of the third nerve one- tenth of an inch before its division. It had much the appear- ance of a sympathetic nerve. Rather more than half an inch behind this, the sixth nerve was joined to the sympathetic by one large and two smaller twigs. The third nerve on this side was not joined to the sympathetic by any separate branch; but on the right side it was joined by three good sized sympa- thetic filaments, just at the place where, on the left side, it was joined by the band from the sixth. On the right side, farther, there were six smaller twigs and one large one between the sixth and sympathetic; and this double union of the latter to the right sixth and third nerves, gave the false appearance of a communi- cation between these two motor nerves themselves. I am disposed to look upon this occasional apparent connection between the third and sixth nerves, as chiefly, if not entirely, composed of sympathetic, taking this mode of reaching the third nerve, along or through the sixth, which constantly forms a large102 DISSECTION or THE ORBITS IN A CASE OF communication with the sympathetic. Tlie connection in tlie present case between the sixth and third nei-ves, further explains the apparent anomaly of the third nerve supplying, close behind and at the ciliary ganglion, a twig to the external rectus; and that this apparent union between the third and sixth nerves did not affect the relative distributive influence of either, is evident from the fact that the parts supplied by the third nerve, not ex- cepting the pupil, were entirely paralysed, whilst the external rectus continued to act. Had the motions of the pupil continued in this case, the erroneous inference might have been drawn, that the iris received its innervation from the sixth nerve, instead of simply concluding that the part of the third nerve which goes to the iris had not been involved in the disease, or that the nerve could still act reflexly in obedience to the stimulus of light, after there was no longer any power to use it under the influence of the will. It has been suggested that the existence of the ciliary ganglion might explain the occasional continuance of the motions of the iris in palsy of the tliird nerve; ^ but were this the reason, the motions of the pupil should always or generally continue, instead of rarely so. We have no evidence to show that the ciliary gan- glion is a centre for reflex motion on the iris, or that it in any way governs the motions by which the pupil is either contracted or dilated, although we know that, in some animals at least, the sympathetic in the neck appears to have such an influence. We are, indeed, as yet quite ignorant of the uses of the ciliary gan- glion, knowing only, as facts, that it is present in all animals which possess a movable pupil, and that we have not the same volun- tary power over tlie iris as over the other parts supplied by the tliird pair of nerves; from which, however, it does not necessarily follow, as has been supposed, that the use of the ganglion is to intercept the transmission of voluntary influence. As to the apparent varieties which anatomists have from time to time observed among the nerves of the orbit, it may be re- marked tliat no such observation is of any physiological value 1 Dr Brinton, Cycloped. Auat. and Phys., vol. iv. p. 622.PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. 103 unless a complete and careful dissection is made of the nerves in the whole of their course. A motor filament may appear to come from the fifth pair, or a sensory filament from one of the motor nerves, but on tracing them back through the sinus, it will be found that the filament had left the parent trunk to accom- pany and tlien leave the other. This I have often found. Hence the explanation of the common description of the lachrymal nerve ai'ising in whole or in part from the fourth nerve, hence also the supposed cases of union between the third and sixth nerves, and the anomalous origins of ciliary nerves and roots for the ciliary ganglion. It would be a greater physiological deviation to find the sixth nerve really supplying the ciliary ganglion and moving the iris, or the third nerve supplying the external rectus and abducting the eye, than to find the portio dura of the seventh pair supplying the inasseter muscle, or the motor portion of the fifth pair the orbicularis palpebrarum. These varieties may be illustrated by one we occasionally meet with in the neck, in the origin of the descendens noni nerve from the vagus, or in the descendens noni furnishing a branch to the heart. Physiolo- gically these appear strange deviations, until we recollect that the vagus and hypoglossal nerves lie close together after they leave the cranium, and fi-equently there present an intimate union with each other. These remarks are not intended to question the occasional existence of irregular twigs crossing between the nerves of the orbit in the anatomical sense, but to throw doubt on the natural inference that they establish physiological varieties also. Were it so, nature would merely have succeeded in defeating her own scheme in the pecuHar distribution of these nerves, and I am not satisfied that any case has yet been recorded in which there was proof that such physiological variety existed, especially that it has not yet been shown that the sixth nerve had anything to do with the motions of the iris.^ I The statement of some, that, "in several animals the sixth nerve sends filaments to the ins,"_grounded apparently on the supposition of the existence of such fila- ments in the rabbit,-appears to me to be erroneous. I have never seen such filaments, and do not believe in their existence.104 PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. Action of Belladonna on the Iris in Paralysis of the Hiird Nerve.—I may also mention an interesting physiological obser- vation which I made in the coiurse of the treatment of this case, viz., that the paralysis of the third nerve, involving the iris, does not interfere with the usual action of belladonna in causing dila- tation of the pupil. On two occasions the pupil, on the paralysed side, was well dilated before half an hour after the application of the atropine, and after two or three days began to retui'n to its former size. On a third occasion both pupils dilated equally, and returned nearly equally to the former size. I have since repeated this observation on another case. Within a quarter of an hour of my applying the atropine, the pupil was undergoing its usual active dilatation. This adds additional evidence to the view that the third nerve regulates only the contraction of the pupil, whilst its dilatation is accomplished through another nervous agency which we possess the power of calling into activity by the influence of the belladonna.IX, DESCRIPTION or AN ESQUIMAUX FEMALE PELVIS. I GIVE tlie following notice of this pelvis with the twofold view of makiug its peculiarities known to those interested in the subject of the various forms and dimensions of the pelvis in the different races of man, or in different individuals; and of stiggesting to those of my pupils who may visit these regions, the endeavour to obtain the pelves of the Esquimaux as well as the skulls, of which latter so many have been brought to this country that we are now well acquainted with their usual characters. This pelvis was brought to me by my former pupil, Dr Pirie of LifiF. It was found by him " on the coast of Davis Straits dur- ing the summer of 1851. It was part of a female body which I discovered lying upon the land near Cape Hooper, in lat, N. 68° 6', Ion. W. 64° 36', and overlaid by a cairn of stones, which is the ordinary form of burial there." The true pelvis belongs most to the so-called square form of pelvis, but is remarkable chiefly from its large dimensions. The following are the measurements in inches, which I ascer- tained carefully along with Dr Pirie:— Brim, Cavity, Outlet, Conjugate. Transverse. 4| ' 6 6| 6i Oblique, 6*10 b DESCBIPTION or AN ESQUIMAUX FEMALE PELVIS. Circumference Of brim, . . 16^ inches. Depth of pelvis, . . ; 4 Depth of symphysis pubis, . . i| Between iliac crests, . . n Between antr. supr. spinous processes, 10 Sacrum, with medium and gradual curvature. Pubic arch very wide. The bones are h'ght and dehcate throughout, hl^e other well developed female pelves. There is a peculiar rough, deep groove 11 inch, long and | broad, on both ilia at the lower and outer edge of the sacro iliac synchondrosis, for which I am at a loss to assign a probable use ; and on the horizontal ramus of the pubis there is a strongly marked spine on either side, where the psoas parvus tendon usually is fixed. The upper pelvis does not, it will be observed, exceed the usual size, but the true pelvis, in all its measurements, much ex- ceeds the average size usually stated by writei-s, and is consider- ably larger than any pelvis I have seen. The character of the female true pelvis, its development in the transverse dii-ection, is here carried unusually far, the transverse diameter of the brim and outlet being from an inch to half an inch more than the average corresponding measurements of the pelves met with in this country. Whether this be a typical specimen of the true Esquimaux pelvis, either of the usual dimensions, or of these somewhat larger than usual, or only an Esquimaux pelvis accidentally large, as we occasionally see in this coimtry, though to a less degree, must remain for future observers to determine. The pelvis is now in the possession of Professor Retzius of Stockholm, to whom I pre- sented it during his visit to Edinburgh last summer. If this be a typical specimen of the Esquimaux pelvis, it will correspond to the statements made by writers regarding the rapidity of the process of partm-ition in that race, although one reason at least for this occurrence in uncivihsed, compared with civilised countries, is, as Professor Simpson has shown, the smaller size of the head in the former, from the lesser development of the brain. Dr Pirie writes me, of his inquiries regarding the Esquimaux :DESCRIPTION OF AN ESQUIMAUX FEMALE PELVIS. 107 —"Till witliin a few hours of labom*, the woman goes about her usual duties, and shortly before it is expected, she retires alone to a skin hut built for the purpose, which is so small as to con- fine her almost entirely to the recumbent posture. While there, no one is allowed to enter the hut, and should she require any food it is placed at the door by her friends. No one is present while labour is going on, and this is usually finished in about half an hour." " In one case which I have heard from authentic sources, the female was seized with labour pains while on board a whaling vessel. She immediately left the ship, and retired behind a hil- lock of ice, returning again with her child on her back in less than half an houi'."X. ON MALFORMATION 1 OP THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEART, WIIH REMA.RKS ON THE VARIETIES OF THESE VALVES, AND ON THEIR NATURAL ACTION. [Read before the Edinbdrgh PiirsiOLOGicAi, Society, June 11, 1853.] CASE OF MALFORMATION OF THE AORTIC VALVES. There are two large valves, and one much smaller. The large valves are lateral, right and left, and separated posteriorly by the small one. The right measures 1| inch from horn to horn, the left ^ inch more. Depth of right, one inch, of left ^. Wliere they meet by their anterior horns, the left is at- tached half an inch below the right, the appearances indicating that this part of the valve had been lost. Also, this end of the left valve has a large smooth hole in it, which nearly admits the point of the little finger, and through which the blood must have regurgitated freely into the ventricle. Pos- teriorly the large valves are attached a little above the horns of the small one, and in each there is a perforation, in the left the size of a crow quill, and in the right of a common quill. Through these the blood would regurgi- tate only into the cavity of the lesser valve. Tlie small or sicpplementary valve measures five-eighths of an inch from horn to horn, and half an inch in depth. By its left horn it is attached a little below the top of the contiguous horn of the left valve, and by its right it joins the right valve one-fifth of an inch from the top of the posterior horn of the latter. Being attached a little lower than this end of the large valves, it would receive the blood which re- gurgitated through the perforations in them, and its cavity has a somewhat oblique inclination to the right side where the larger perforation looks downON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEAKT. 110 into it. It has a thickening like a corpus Arantii in its centre. The corpus Arantii of the right valve is situated so much behind the middle, that, were this valve and the small one joined into one, it would be exactly in the centre; and a thick band of fibres passed from this corpus Arantii on each side. The left valve is imiformly thick and opaque. The coronary arteries arise, one from above the middle of the left valve, the other above the right, half way between its middle and the anterior horn. The aorta near the valves is very irregular, covered with soft tubercular elevations and a few calcareous deposits. The mitral, tricuspid, and pulmon- ary semilunar valves, are healthy. The left ventricle is much dilated and thickened, the right ventricle normal. The whole heart weighed about a pound and a half. The patient was an emaciated man, set. 33, broken down by dissipation. The history, known only for a few days before death, states, that the symptoms were—dyspnoea, cough, hemoptysis, sputa tinged with blood—pulse full, strong, and about 90—considerable cardiac dulness. First sound obscured by a moderate bruit; second sound very indistinct. Remarhs on Varieties of the Semilunar Valves.—However fre- quent it may be to meet with cases of variety in the number of the semilunar valves, in which only two, or again more than three, were found, there is want of evidence to show that such a condi- tion has been known to occur as an original anatomical variety. It is interesting to observe that the variety of diminution of the number usually occurs at the aortic orifice, whilst the cases in which the usual number was exceeded have chiefly occurred at the pulmonary orifice.^ This corresponds to the probable view, that the condition of two valves arises from disease in the adult, by which two of the valves become joined together, and then thrown down as one large one; and that the condition of more than three valves arises from disease in utero, one or more of the original valves being divided into two, by an adhesion to the wall of the artery, the condition being found almost always at the pulmonary ori- fice, and in young subjects. The greater frequency of disease at the pulmonary orifice in young subjects, whilst m the adult it is so much more frequent at the aortic orifice, cannot, however, . See an interesting collection of facts on this subject by P^--^^^^ '^^^ TT VI -M-oriirnl Times and Gazette, November 15, 18ol; and iseptemoei ii, loo-. S^bttS^^^^^^^ on this subject by Dr W. T. Gaivdner. lecturer on practice of medicine in this city.ON THE SEMILUNAR YALVES OF THE HEARTt lit be explained by the supposed greater activity of the right side of the heart before birth, as the foot is that, at least during the latter two-thirds of foetal life, the walls of the left ventricle are already considerably thicker than those of the right. We must distinguish, in using the term " malformation," be- tween malformation owing to disease in utero, and to original deviation. The latter only can be regarded by the anatomist as cases of variety in the number of the valves, and there is little evidence to show that such a condition has occurred. If the two, or four, valves were of equal size, healthy, and in all respects corresponding to each other, then only could we conclude the case to be one of original variety. The suitable number of valves for orifices of this size and activity appears to be three. Where valves occur in the trunks of the larger veins, two is the usual number—three being rarely found in man ; but, in the larger animals, it is stated that three occur not unfrequently. When the vessel becomes large, and especially here, where so much strength is required, it seems that three valves become necessary. Two large valves, each occupy- ing a half of the large orifice, would be less easily or completely pushed aside by the blood than the three; and, when in action, the strain would have told more upon them than it does upou the thi-ee, which are so doubled against each other, when closed, that each fits into an angle between the other two, and exerts its pressure against the walls of both of the others in this angular recess. On the other hand, a greater number than three would give complexity, without additional openness to the passage, or security against regurgitation ; as, whatever the number, each would still require to be at least projecting enough to meet the others in the centre of the orifice, besides an addi- tional portion to be doubled up against the others. At the same time, that two valves might be sufficient, is evi- dent from the cases in which, although more or less diseased, they were found when death had been due to other causes • and in these cases their diseased or irregular condition might be re- garded either as affording evidence, on the one hand, that the condition of two or four valves had its origin in disease ; or onON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEART. 112 the Other, if the two valves were of equal size, that they had been two in number originally, and that their consequent less perfect action had brought about the disease. Cases such as the one recorded cannot be explained farther than by the supposition of an arrest of development—that, in early life, one of the valves had ceased to grow. It is possible that a small valve had been a portion of a large diseased valve, united by adhesion to the wall of the artery, as in the case of the mode in which it is supposed the additional valve is formed when more than three are present; but, in a similar case noticed by Dr Peacock, the small thu^d valve had, still more than in this one, the appearance of being an originally separate valve, which had ceased to grow in early life. On the Natural Action of the Semilunar Valves.—When the blood in the ventricles is compressed by their systole, it meets with the convexities of the closed semilunar valves, and pushes them aside. This of itself must require considerable force, when we consider the strain backwards, especially upon the aortic valves, from the elastic reaction of the arteries, which tends to force the blood backwards upon the valves, as well as forwards. This forcible throwing aside of the semilunar valves, and driving of the greater part of the blood out of their cavities behind, must contribute to the production of the first sound of the heart fully more than the part of that sound supposed to be contributed by the mere rushing of the blood through the narrow orifices of the aorta and pulmonary artery. When we consider the matter closely, it seems as if a small quantity of blood would regurgitate into the ventricles before the valves had time to close, as the valves have been washed up, and all the blood ex- pelled from behind them, except so much as there is room for in the sinus of Valsalva, or the recess in the wall behind each valve. When the ventricles have thrown the blood forcibly up into the arteries, these are distended, and, reacting, tend to force the blood back, but the reversed current or weight of the column pressing back, meets the partially open mouths of the valves, a condition of them which is ensured by the sinus behind and the blood in it,ON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEART. 113 which prevent the valves being washed up altogether flat against the wall of the artery; the cavities of the valves are thus quickly and inevitably filled, and the valves are quickly and forcibly thrown down towards the ventricle against each other, completely closing the orifice, and producing the second sound of the heart. It may be, that during life, a few drops of blood get back into the ventricles before the complete closure of the valves can be efiected, but we observe in the dead body, when the valves have not been diseased or altered from age, that the action of the aortic valves is complete, as shown by the injection of the arteries. In injecting our subjects from the femoral artery, the injection passes up the aorta and down the arch, and is arrested at the orifice of the aorta by the semilunar valves. If it is a diseased or old subject these give way, or, without actually tear- ing, allow the injection to enter the left ventricle; but if the subject is young or a healthy adult, the arrestment is complete, and not a drop of the injection is seen in the ventricle. We would expect that a few drops would pass through the centre before the valves could be filled out and thrown down, but again we must recollect that the valves in the dead body lie loosely against or towards each other, in the absence of any force to keep them up, and are therefore perhaps more in the way of being immediately closed, than in the living body, in which they have to return from the position into which they had been washed by the blood rushing out of the ventricles. The action of these valves is pex-fectly mechanical, and con- trasts with that of the auriculo-ventricular valves, to the perfect action of which vital contractility is necessary, in the employment of the musculi papillares. The principle upon which these papillary muscles are used, is, it seems to me, simply that of shortening of their tendons—the cordse tendinese—so as to ac- commodate these to the size of the cavity of the ventricle, the contraction of which during the systole would otherwise relax the cords too much and allow the flaps of the valves to yield too far. I do not, however, deny that the musculi papillares may act first of all, pulling the flaps towards each other so as to make sure of the blood getting behind them, thus serving the purpose H114 ON THE SEMILUNAB VALVES OF THE HEART. of the sinuses of Valsalva in relation to the semilunar valves, only it seems to me that such a prehminary action on the flaps of the valve is not required. Except, however, in so far as just expressed, the action of the auriculo-ventricular valves is mechanical also, the blood getting in behind the flaps of the valve, and pushing them together, whilst the cords prevent them being pushed through the orifice into the auricle; but that their action is not mechanically perfect, but depends for its perfection on the vital act of the shortening of the musculi papillares, is shown in the dead body by the result of injection, which, if it gets into the ventricle is not arrested by the mitral valve, but is certain to pass through and fill the left auricle, and from it the pulmonary veins. It is perhaps commonly supposed that the use of the coi*pus Arantii in the centre of the free margin of the semilunar valves was to ensure the filling up of a possible or imaginary chink left in the centre by the meeting of three convex surfaces; but a close consideration will show that the relation of the valves to each other is difi^erent from this. Whatever the number of valves, it was necessary that, being equal, each should be at least large enough to reach to the centre. But each is large enough to reach farther than this. Allowing an inch as the diameter of the aortic orifice, each valve will be found to measure from each of its horns to the corpus Arantii from f to f of an inch, i.e., from an eighth to a sixth, or even a fourth, of an inch more than is sufficient to reach the centre or axis of the aorta. The upper part of the valve is therefore doubled up, and rests against a corresponding part of the other two, pressing back to back against each other, whilst the lower part of the valve forms a convex bulging towards the ventricle. This corresponds to the natural difference of the semilunar valves at then- upper and lower parts, the former being thin and the latter thick and strong. The middle fibrous bands of the valve seem to corres- pond to the points where the valves ceased to support each other. These median fibrous bands passing from each horn into the valve and then curving upwards towards the corpus Arantii, appear to me not properly to pass up to the corpus, but to meet115 ON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEART. some distance, } inch more or less, below it, in a triangular thickening (corpus Arantii inferius), from the apex of which a narrow median elevation or thickening passes up to join the true or superior corpus Arantii. This is sometimes very distinct, and especially when they are thickened by disease, the inferior body will often be felt to be the thickest and hardest of the two. When the valves are closed, the thin part above the median band is a perfectly flat surface, each half supported against the corresponding half of the other two valves. Seen from above, there is a triple line, or three straight lines meeting in the centre; and although each valve is large enough to pass beyond the centre, their upper margins seem to be stretched, by passing not horizontally inwards, but inwards and downwards. When viewed from below they are also seen to meet in a triple line, and this appears to correspond to the median fibrous band, and the inferior corpus Arantii meets its fellows in the centre, where the three straight lines meet. Below this the valves are seen to be convex, and look to the cavity of the ventricle. When, therefore, the valves are closed, the upper thin portions are flattened against and mutually supported by each other, and the corpora Arantii, are some distance up in the interior of the artery. Part of the force of the elastic reaction of the arteries is thus sustained; and were this part of the valve to be perforated, as we sometimes see in the upper thin portion of the pulmonary valves, the blood would not regui-gitate into the ventricle, but merely pass from the cavity of one valve into that of the other. The lower and thicker portion of the valves begins where they are about to loose this mutual support, and is thus fitted for resisting the strain backwards towards the ventricle, into the cavity of which the blood would regurgitate in the event of a perforation occurring in this part of the valve. The sinuses of Valsalva, as is well understood, are no doubt essential to the perfect action of the semilunar valves. The falling back of the valves is ensured in three ways^first, by their own weight, as soon as the blood which pushed them aside has passed by; secondly, by tlie weight of a certain amount of blood which has not been expelled from the sinus ; and, thirdly,ON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEART. 116 by the sinus beginning above the valve, so as to expose the mouth of the latter to the returning flow of the blood; all con- tributing to the rapid and complete closure of the valves. But this arrangement of sinuses behind the valves is not con- fined to the aortic and pulmonary valves; it seems to exist equally with all the valves of the vascular system ; in the lym- phatics as well as in the veins. The great importance of the valves in the veins, in the extremities especially,—to the veins of which, indeed, the valves are all but confined,—in rendering the muscles accessary to the onward motion of the blood in the veins, cannot be too much insisted on. Without them the muscles would tend to retard as much as to accelerate the venous flow, but the valves, not of themselves of direct use during the onward flow, prevent this, and render the action of the muscles equivalent to a second heart acting on the deep veins. In this way it is, that sudden and severe exercise makes us out of breath, by the rapidity with which the blood is thrown forwards to the heart, more rapidly than the lungs can at first transmit it; and this force, it must be recollected, is more or less constantly in action in the limbs, unless during sleep, or when the body is otherwise at complete rest, and then, the position being horizontal, the heart has only to circulate the blood through a set of level tiibes, at least it is so with the large returning veins. Now, the action of these valves is rendered certain by sinuses behind them, which natural sinuses or pouches, not any un- natural dilation of the vein by the injection meeting the resist- ing valves, is the cause of the swellings seen outside, in injected veins and lymphatic vessels ; and a valvular sinus is therefore an essential part in the construction of a mechanically acting valve. Some physiological writers seem to object to the view that the forcing action of the heart is the one great motive power of the circulation, under the impression that it is too mechanical a view of the matter; and have inferred on insufficient grounds, the existence of another motive power, or vis afronte, from the phenomena presented in the capillaries, in the exercise of the vital endowments of the blood and the tissues, necessarily exist-ON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEART. 117 ing to serve the purposes of nutrition, respiration, etc., altogether irrespective of motive power. But as experiments show the power of the heart to be fully sufficient, and as this great central force, modified by the influence of the nervous system in causing dilatation or contraction of the larger or smaller arteries, or of the capillaries themselves, is sufficient to explain all the phenomena of the circulation, including local determinations, it is perhaps unnecessary to invent other and hypothetical powers; and so far from a mechanical explanation being objectionable, it may be remarked that such a mode of accomplishing an object in the living body, is indeed not a lower but a higher manifestation of power and design, being a more simple means of attaining the end in view; and mechanical laws, be it recollected, come from the same Author as the vital endowments. In the whole of animal physiology there is perhaps nothing more perfect and beautiful, and at the same time more simple and mechanical, than the action of the semilunar valves; and they are kept working by the vital endowment of the living heart, and enabled to resist friction and wear by the vital endowments of the blood-vessels which nourish them. The valves open and close with force at every action of the heart. Allowing the heart to act 75 times in a minute, this will give us 4500 actions of these valves in an hour; and although not thicker than very thin writing paper, these valves, thus acting incessantly through every hour of a long life, may be found as good at the end of it as at the beginning.Fig. A.—1. Rudimentary first rib. 2. Ligament representing part of first rib. 3. Small first cartilage becoming blended with cartilage of second rib. 4. First dor- sal vertebra. Fig. B.—Rudimentary first rib of left side. 1. Head. 2. Groove for subclavian artery. Fig. C—Rudimentary twelfth rib of left side. 1. Head.XI. ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS, AND ON SOME POINTS IN THE ANATOMY OF THE VERTEBRJ). FBOM THE MONTHLY JODRNAl OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, OCTOBER 1853. I SHALL first describe the parts in two instances which have oc- curred in my anatomical rooms, in which the highest and lowest ribs were in an imperfectly formed condition; and then offer a few considerations as to the nature of the various irregularities of the ribs, and their relation to the spine. I.—Imperfect condition of the First Pair of Ribs, and their relation to surrounding parts. This variety occurred during summer session 1852, in a male set. 24, in all other respects well formed. There are twelve ribs on each side. The first or highest rib on both sides is short, a large part being represented by a ligament. The right is two inches in length, the left two inches and a quarter. Each joins by its head the upper part of the body of the first dorsal vertebra by one entire facet, the lower part of the body of this vertebra receiving also, as usual, part of the head of the second rib. Both articulate by their tubercles, an inch outward from the head, with the transverse process of the first dorsal'vertebra. TheyON RUDIMENTARY RIBS 120 are broadest at the tubercle, where each measures nearly half an inch, and before and after this they are about half this breadth. The right tapers to a point, the left is rather expanded at its anterior end, and distinctly grooved here where the sub- clavian artery lay. This groove is much less marked on the right side. A ligament, narrow but strong, passes foi-ward from the tip of each rib, and joins in front a short and pointed first cartilage, which thus connects it to the sternum. The ligament is two inches in length. The cartilage is an inch in length and a fourth of an inch in breadth, and pointed at its outer end where it receives the ligament. Where it joins the sternum, it is close up to the clavicular notch, and by the inner half of its lower border is quite continuous with the broader cartilage of the se- cond rib, with which at the sternum it therefore fonns one piece. The manubrium sterni is proportionally long, measuring three inches, while the body measures only a quarter of an inch more; and at the cartilaginous union between the manubrium and body the cartilage of the third rib is fixed, this being the place where the cai'tilage of the second rib is normally attached. The handle of the sternum is thus joined by the cartilages of the first two ribs and half of the third, although it is to be observed that the first two cartilages are fused into one before they join the ster- num. The cartilage of the eighth rib comes within a quarter of an inch of the lower end of the sternum, joining the appendix ensiformis, which is ossifying above, and presents a well bifur- cated cartilage below. The superior aperture or inlet of the thorax is thus bounded; behind, by the first dorsal vertebra, and on each side of this by the rudimentary rib, the tips of which do not project farther forwards than on a line with the front of the body of the vertebra; on each side by the ligamentous cord, and in front by the short cartilages and the sternum. The transverse diameter of the inlet measui-es four and a half inches, the antero-posterior two and a half, and the plane of the opening slopes a very little downwards and for- wards. The second ribs are well formed, folly six inches in length, and the transverse diameter of the space between them is sTx inches. The space between the first rib and ligament above121 AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRAE. and the second rib below is rather more than half an inch in breadth, and is occupied in the usual way by the intercostal muscles and membrane. The scalenus anticus muscle is attached on each side chiefly to the point of the rudimentary rib and to the ligament close to it, and a large tendinous slip passes down inside the internal in- tercostal muscle, to be fixed to the upper margin of the second rib. The subclavian vessels were normal in their relative ana/- tomy. The artery lay immediately behind the scalenus anticus, and was supported by the groove in the tip of each rib. The position of the artery in the neck must, however, have been far- ther back than usual, as the tip of each rib is only on a level witli the front of the body of the vertebra, and an inch behind the transverse axis of the inlet of the thorax. Looking merely to the ribs themselves, and to the circumstance that the cartilage fixed to the sternum where the handle and body join was that of the third rib, it might be supposed that these were instances of supernumerary cervical ribs connected with the vertebra prominens; but though I had not the opportunity of examining the vertebra above, I carefully ascertained that there were only eleven ribs below them on each side, and had there been a small lib below, as in the next case, it would have been found in the after dissection of the abdomen. Besides the ver- tebra on which they are supported being in all respects like an ordinary first dorsal, the neighbouring anatomy is normal, ex- cept that the rib stops short and is represented by a ligament. II.—Eudimentaiy condition of Twelfth Ribs. This variety occurred dui'ing last winter session, 1852-3, in a female aet. 19. From external examination the subject was at first supposed to present an example of the occurrence of eleven ribs only, but on subsequent examination on the inside, I de- tected a pair of very small twelfth ribs, lying hidden among the muscles, but so small that they still were imperceptible from the outside. There is very little difference between them. The122 ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS right measures an inch in length and an eighth of an inch in breadth; the left seven-eighths in length and one-sixth in breadth. They are flattened from before backwards, a little expanded at the tip, and by an inner rounded end, or head, joined, by a freely mov- able articulation, to the pedicle of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, at a point corresponding to where the eleventh rib joins its vertebra, at the upper part of the root of the pedicle. It is the twelfth rib from above downwards, and there are five lumbar vertebrte between its vertebra and the sacrum. The eleventh rib is six inches in length. The eleventh dorsal vertebra has here the character by which the twelfth is usually distinguished, its in- ferior articulating processes looking outwards instead of forwards. This, together with the small size of the rib, would without doubt suggest to one merely seeing the specimen, that the case was one of supernumerary lumbar rib, but I ascertained carefully that it was only the twelfth rib fi'om above downwards, and there were five lumbar vertebrae below. In this subject there was also a peculiarity of the cartilage of the left fourth rib. The rib is very broad where it joins the car- tilage, and the latter is bifurcated at its costal end, leaving an aperture which received the point of the little finger. The drawings illustrate the descriptions. In Fig. A the parts are reduced two-thirds from the natural size, retaining the pro- portions, but in the other two the full size is represented. 111.—Remarks on Variation of the number of the Ribs in Man, and on some points in the Anatomy of the Vertebras. It is well known that the ribs may vary in number, from the addition of a thirteenth rib on the seventh cervical or first lum- bar vertebra, or from the absence of one at the upper or lower end of the range, although on this point writers are less precise. But, although the occurrence is noticed by almost every anato- mical author, comparatively few appear to have actually met with instances of it. A case of supernimierary cervical rib has been recorded by Dr A. Dymock, in an interesting paper,^ which con- > Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, rol. xl. 1833.AND THEIR RELATION TO THE YERTEBRiE, 123 tains references to the history of this point, and also some able remarks on its nature. In the case recorded by him, the rib of the right side is an inch and a half in length, and that of the left three inches. Both are articulated to the upper part of the side of the body of the seventh cervical vertebra. They ended abruptly without any cartilaginous prolongation. That of the left side was joined by a strong fasciculus of tendinous fibres to the next rib, but no farther account of the relation to the other soft parts could be given, as putrefaction was far advanced before the peculiarity was noticed. Mr R. Quain has recorded two instances of cervical rib.' Re- garding one of these no details could be given, as the preparation was destroyed, and he has represented the other in Plate 25, fig. 9, being from a preparation in the University of Cambridge. They are placed on the seventh cervical vertebra. That of the right side reaches forwards, and joins a tubercle near the middle of the first ordinary rib. That of the left side is less than an inch in length, and both are movable on the vertebra. The first ordinary rib is drawn as articulated entirely on the body of the first dorsal vertebra. The examination into this point, in connection with the two cases which occurred to me, has led me to put the question, whether some of the cases recorded as instances of cervical and lumbar ribs were not of the same nature,—instances rather of the ordinary first and twelfth ribs in an imperfectly formed con- dition. This latter condition has attracted much less notice, and may be rare. It is alluded to, however, by several anato- mists. Bourgery^ states, that the absence of the first rib is often only apparent, the rib being well developed behind. Mr Ward, in his excellent work on the bones,^ says, " more rarely the first rib on each side is deficient in front, losing itself, hke the floating ribs, in the substance of the muscles." Soemmerring* alludes to 1 Anatomy of the Arteries, 1844. Pp. 149-187. * Traits Complet de I'Anatomie de I'Homme. Bourgery et Jacob. Paris, 1831 Vol. i., p. 59. » Outlines of Human Osteology. By F. O. Ward. London. 1837. « TraitiS d'Osteologie et de Syndesmologie. S. T. Scemmerring. Paris, 1843.ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS. 124 a case in which there were only eleven ribs, these eleven, however, appearing larger than usual. Of high supernumerary ribs, he says, " it resembles more or less the first, and is united by a cartilage, or only by a hgament, with the upper piece of the sternum. The first rib proper exists, and is attached to the superior piece of the sternum, is longer and narrower than ordinary, owing to which the space between it, the sternum, and the body of the vertebra, is sensibly larger." But he does not refer to any case, nor mention such an occurrence as an imperfect first rib, liable to be mistaken for a cervical rib. These remarks are not, of course, intended to question the occurrence of cervical or lumbar ribs, but merely to suggest caution in admitting any case to be of such a nature, unless after due examination of other parts of the spine and chest. Were the preparations in the two cases I have described now placed before any anatomist, without any history or information, they would, without doubt, be fixed on as instances of supeniumerary cervical and lumbar ribs, although they are merely instances of the first and twelfth ribs in an imperfectly developed condition. My second case also shows how readily a mistake might be committed, in supposing the number of the ribs to be reduced to eleven, as the twelfth rib may be so small that its presence can be ascertained only by dissection of the muscles close to it. These cases, however, illustrate, perhaps not less than the actual occurrence of supernumeraiy ribs, the analogy that obtains be- tween the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, the anterior part of the same processes of the vertebrae in the neck, and the ribs. As the case of supernumerary rib shows the trans- verse process expanded into a rib, these cases show a rib, as it were, shrinking into a transverse process. The now well known fact of the development of the anterior arch of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra in man, from a separate centre, enables us not only to understand the analogy more clearly, but Ukewise readily to account for the occasional exist- ence of a small rib on this vertebra; and the analogy may reasonably be extended to the other cervical vertebra, although the anterior arch or costiform portion of their transverse pro-AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRiE. 125 cesses, is not, with perhaps rare and partial exceptions, developed in man from a separate centre, but of " exogenous" formation, as it is termed by some. The position of the little twelfth rib, in my second case, illus- trates very clearly the analogy between the ribs and the trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. It shows an intermediate link between a twelfth rib and a transverse process, or rather, it is like a lumbar transverse process, a little longer and narrower than usual, articulated but not ossified to the vertebra, and much like what we should expect in the case of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra not becoming ossified to the pedicle, when it had been, as it is known occasionally to be, developed from a separate centre. Also, the analogy between the tubercle on the root of the superior articulating processes of the lumbar vertebrae and the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae is very apparent in this specimen. In no case almost has the twelfth dorsal vertebra a distinctly projecting transverse process, but here there is only a tubercle, or little elevation, deeper ver- tically, but scarcely more projecting than the tubercle on the first lumbar vertebra; whilst the latter or analogical lumbar trans- verse process, holds the same relation to the transverse process usually so called, as the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra does to the commencement of a rib. In considering these analogies, we must not forget, as some writers on transcendental anatomy seem to have done, that the parts which may be so regarded, do not the less serve a specific purpose, and to serve which they are provided. The lumbar transverse processes and tubercles are required to give attachment to certain muscles in the loins, and the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are constructed with a view to several pur- poses ; chiefly to form a foramen for the lodgment of the verte- bral artery, which implies an anterior and posterior arch during growth, and, in the four common vertebrfe, a couple of tubercles, one for the anterior and one for the posterior group of muscles, and a groove between for the safe passage of the nerve; all of which, it is not too much to say, would have been present whether any part of the process was analogous to a rib or not; that is to126 ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS say, the anterior part of the cervical transverse process does not exist from necessity, merely, so to speak, from the force of any general law or type of formation, as the "costal appendage" of the vertebra, but exists there because it is required or impUed in the formation of a hole, which aperture again is formed here, like apertures elsewhere, because required for a purpose. It is, however, at the same time, most interesting to observe that this purpose is effected by the working out of a general plan; and here, as frequently elsewhere in anatomy, we see several prin- ciples combined or ends sei-ved by one and the same means. It would indeed be wonderful if the skeletons of the various verter brata were not all laid down on the same general plan ; but would it not be more so, if this plan could not be varied or departed from when it was necessary or better that it should be so,—the variation being the specific law, while the other is the general law, and both equally original and fixed V These remarks apply to those " analogies" of the human skeleton which are constant, and where the parts at the same time serve specific purposes, which we must distinguish from those occurring occasionally only, and to which the term " anomaly" is applied,—a term to which there can be no objection, if we understand the sense in which it is used. Of these we have examples in the occurrence of true supernumerary ribs, or still better, in the hooked process that occasionally springs from the humerus above the internal condyle, and is the analogue of the arch of bone completing the foramen in many of the mammalia, through which the median nerve and brachial artery pass. These anomalies serve no specific purpose, nor do they interfere with the specific uses of any other parts, and of such deviations we can give no explanation beyond obsex'ving the fact and tracing the analogy. To speak of such anomalies as the result of a ge- neral law and type of formation, or a " law of deformation," is at best an assumption, or a use of terms without any intelligible 1 I have here, in the common language of descriptive anatomy, used the terms— Rib Transverse Process—Body, etc. Those desirous of linowing the terms pro- posed as substitutes for these, in accordance witli the views of Owen and others, may consult Mr Holmes Coote's short Treatise on "The Homologies of the Human Skeleton."AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRAE. 127 meaning. Tlie fact is, that they are not the result of any law, but the exceptions to a law, the specific law, by which the human skeleton received and transmits unaltered its peculiarities; ex- ceptions the rarity of which only tends to render the law the more striking, and of which exceptions we know nothing beyond observing the fact and noticing the analogy. The constant existence of a hole in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, whilst at the same time the artery does not pass through it, might be looked upon as indicating some other principle in regard to the fonnation of the aperture in the cervical transverse processes, irrespective of their occupation by the artery. However, although the mere circumstance of one of the seven holes not being used by no means leads to such a conclusion, the fact regarding the seventh vertebra appears to be easily explained by looking to the special anatomy of the parts. First, it is part of the design in the construction of the cervical transverse processes to provide a hole for the vertebral artery; and secondly, from the place where the vertebral artery usually arises, it would require to deviate fi'om its direct course to enter the forameii in the lowest vertebra, and accordingly, so to express it, the ai'tery finds it more convenient to pass over and enter usually the sixth. In accordance with this view I may mention that I have once seen the left vertebral artery pass through the foramen of the seventh vertebra, but it arose about an inch far- ther down than usual from the subclavian trunk, whilst the nor- mal artery of the other side entered the sixth. This, however, may not be the whole explanation. It is common enough, for instance, for the vertebral artery of the left side to arise separately from the arch of the aorta, but then it does not enter the foramen in the seventh vertebra. Indeed, Mr Quain, with his large ob- servation of varieties of the arteries, appears to have seen it enter only once, and, as in my case just referred to, it was the artery of the left side. It is possible that the explanation may lie in the development or growth of the transverse processes, as we occa- sionally find the artery pass over even three or four of the lower vertebriE before it enters the foramina. The common statement that the foramen in the seventh cervical transverse process trans-128 ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS mits, not the artery, but the vertebral vein, is certainly erroneous. The vein normally comes out where the arteiy goes in, at the foramen of the sixth vertebra, and gains the subclavian vein, rarely by passing behind the subclavian artery, a position which I have seen it occupy only twice, but in front of the artery, constituting one of its anterior relations internal to the scalenus muscle. I have obsei-ved particularly the interesting fact mentioned by several authors,^ that in many of the mammalia, it appears to me the majority, the foramen is wanting in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, although present in those above it. This cannot be owing to a separate anterior arch being lost dur- ing maceration, as it is in the adult skeleton, where the bone is finished without any trace of an anterior transverse pi'ocess. This absence of the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra in most of the mammalia is an interesting fact when contrasted with its constant presence in man although no use is made of it, but rather harmonises with the fact of the for- mation in him of the anterior arch from a separate centre.^ The case of supernumerary cervical rib in man has been ad- vanced^ to prove the inaccui'acy of the common statement that the mammalian cervix consists always of seven vertebrae; and the author alluded to has given an ideal drawing of two pairs of su- pernumeraiy cervical ribs in a human figure, a condition of which I doubt only the occuiTence, not the theoretical possibihty. The occurrence, however, in man or any mammal of a supernumerary rib on the seventh cei;vical vertebra, as a rare anomaly, is not a reasonable objection to the rule in question. Although a sixth or supernumerary finger or toe has been met with, we are not the less entitled to hold that, as a general rule, the number of the human digits is five. Whether there is any regular and true exception to this otherwise general rule, will depend on the name » Martin's Introduction to the Natural History of Maramiferous Animals. London, 1841. Professor Owen on the Marsupialia. Cycloped. Anat. and Phys., vol. iii. » Dr Knox states, in his recent Manual of Anatomy, that the anterior arch of the seventh cervical vertebra is formed from two distinct parts, the anterior of which is the true analogue of the rib, but he does not refer to any facts or observations in sup- port of this view. » Cycloped. Anat. and Phys., vol. iv.—Skeleton, by Mr Joseph Macbse.AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRA. 129 we give to the eighth and ninth vertebrae of the three-toed sloth; the little ribs appended to their transverse processes indicating them as dorsal vcrtebrEe/ while the foramina,^ said to exist in addition, in their transverse processes would assimilate them to the cervical vertebra3. We know of no reason why the mamma- lian cervix should be limited to seven vertebrae beyond observing the fact, and even if the above be reckoned an exception, it is a remarkable fact that, in so vast a field, only one exception, and that a doubtful one, can be found to the general rule, that in all mammalia, however much the actual and relative number of the vertebrfe in the other regions of the spine may vary, in the neck, be it short or long, the number is uniformly seven.^ In conclusion, it is to be observed that no certain opinion can be formed as to the nature of any specimen of irregular rib, unless a carefiil examination has been made of the other ribs and vertebrae. If it is at the upper end of the thorax, the cervical vertebrae must be counted, as it cannot be determined by an examination of the vertebra supporting the rib or of that above it. If it is a true cervical rib we do not then expect to find the foramen in the transverse process behind it, and the vertebra above may be passed over by the artery, and want its anterior tubercle under such circumstances, that is, the seventh cervical vertebra may resemble the first dorsal, and the sixth vertebra may then resemble the seventh. Carefully counting the ribs may also determine the question but not absolutely, as the conditions of additional or imperfect rib above might be accompanied by those of the absence or addition of a rib below, a rule which if rigor- ously applied would render it a matter of opinion only, not of absolute certainty, that the rib in my first case was not a super- numerary cervical rib. The question whether a small lowest rib is an imperfect twelfth dorsal, or a true lumbar rib, will be 1 Cycloped. Anat. and Phys., vol. ii. Edentata. By Professor Bell. » Martin, Op. Cit. 3 As already mentioned, the foramen is wanting in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra in many of the mammalia, and in many also, the first rib may be seen to rest partly on the body of the seventh cervical vertebra. These two cir- cumstances may be seen frequently to be combined, as in the horse, in which all the ribs rest on the bodies of two vertebra; but this does not render the lowest vertebra in the neck the less a " cervical" one. I130 ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS settled by counting tlie number of the free lumbar vertebrse, whilst the number of the ribs is carefully ascertained. There is another source of fallacy in determining the nature of a rudimentary rib—there may be eleven or thirteen ribs, and still the cervical vertebras be seven, and the lumbar five in num- ber. Mr Quain has seen an instance of the former with defi- ciency of a dorsal vertebrte, and there is an instance of the latter in the Barclay Collection in the Edinburgh College of Surgeons' Museum. The skeleton is marked " Skeleton of a European male used by Dr Barclay in his lecture room, as having thirteen dorsal vertebrae, and thirteen ribs on the left side." There are seven well formed cervical, five well formed lumbar, and thirteen dorsal vertebrae. The first dorsal vertebra receives the first and part of the next rib as usual. The seven iipper ribs are true, joining the sternum in the usual manner. The lowest three ribs are floating. The twelfth is six inches in length. ' The thirteenth is two inches in length, and one^third of an inch in breadth, and is movably articulated on a projection on the upper part of the side of the body of the thirteenth dorsal vertebra. There appears to have been a corresponding one on the right side. The lower articulating processes of the twelfth dorsal vei-tebra are not turned outwards, those of the thirteenth are the first to be so. The thirteenth dorsal vertebra has a thick short transverse process, intermediate in position between the transverse process of the twelfth above it, and the tubercle of the first lumbar ver- tebra below it.^ Variation in the number of the vertebrae is perhaps a more 1 Since this paper appeared in the Journal, Mr Holmes Coote of St Bartholomew's Hospital, has published (Medical Times and Gazette, January 21,1854), an interesting account of the skeleton of a Chinese, in which there is the peculiarity, that the thorax is placed upon the spine, a vertebra higher up than usual. The twelve ribs have been attached to the twelve middle vertebra, leaving six cervical vertebraj above and six lumbar below. So far as I am aware, no similar case has been recorded. Mr Coote mentions that the Chinese had died in the Sidney Hospital, from which a pupil had brought the skeleton; and suggests the inquiry whether this be the normal con- dition of the Chinese skeleton. It so happens that one of my pupils, Mr Cox, who has recently come from the Sid- ney Hospital, has also brought a Chinese skeleton, which he has aiforded me an op- portunity of examining carefully. I am also indebted to Mr Cox for much interest- ing information, regarding the various races to be met with there, for procuring spe- cimen skeletons of which, it appears the Sidney Hospital is favourably situated. AAND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRiE. 161 remarkable circumstance than that of variation of the ribs; but when there is a vertebra more or less, the accompanying addition or deficiency of a rib is perhaps what might be expected. This is to be distinguished from the case of variation of the ribs only, in which the number of free cervical or lumbar vertebrae is affected. In reckoning the number of the lumbar vertebra3, we will be careful not to reckon only four, when the fifth is partially ossified to the sacrum, or again six, when the highest portion of the sacrum remains separate, as it normally does till between the twenty-fifth and thirtieth year. I may fm'ther observe, that we cailnot judge of the individua- lity of a rib by noticing its exact relation to the vertebrae. Usu- ally the first dorsal vertebra receives the entire head of the first rib and part of the second, but sometimes the first rib reaches in part upon the body of the seventh cervical vertebra. Nor can we absolutely recognise any particular dorsal vertebra below by attending to the usual description of their specific characters. The twelfth dorsal vertebra is not always the first to have its lower articulating processes turned outwards. In the second of my cases above recorded, the eleventh vertebra possessed this character. I have seen another instance in which the lower processes of the eleventh looked more outwards than forwards, and another eleventh in which the lower processes looked in dif- ferent directions, the right outwards and the left forwards. I have a preparation of several vertebras, where apparently the eleventh dorsal has a facet on its transverse process, and only part of a facet on its body, or if this is a tenth then the lower articulating processes of the eleventh are directed outwards. And it appears to me that most of our text books on anatomy are wrong in describing the tenth dorsal vertebra as possessing a considerable number of Chinese are there as servants, all being males, and Mr Cox is quite certain that both his skeleton and that broujiht to Mr Coote by his fellow- student, were from true Chinese. The skeleton I have examined presents no peculiarity similar to that described by Mr Coote; the spine of the axis has an average bifurca- tion, and that of the sixth cervical vertebra is not bifid; the seventh cervical verte- bra is in all respects normal. The first dorsal vertebra has an entire facet for the head of the first rib, and a half one below for its part of the second rib. The three lowest dorsal vertebrie have the usual facets, and the lower articulating processes of the twelfth, as usual, look outwards.ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS. 132 facet for tlie entire head of the corresponding rib. Were it-so' the ninth vertebra would be equally entitled to be described as a peculiar one, in the absence of the half facet below, as indeed several anatomists describe. In twelve sets of articulated verte- brae in my collection, the tenth rib has articulated also with the ninth vertebra, freely in four, doubtfully in one, in three on the right side, but apparently not on the left, whilst in the remaining four it appears to have been wholly received by the tenth. In one of the latter there was no facet on the transverse process of the tenth vertebra ; and in the specimens where there is no part facet on the lower edge of the ninth, there is a small bony pro- jection, which before the bones were macerated, may have been tipped with cartilage, besides giving attachment to the upper band of the stellate ligament. It seems therefore, that it is at least as frequent to find the tenth rib articulating also with the ninth vertebra. The tenth vertebra can be distinguished from the two below it by the facet on its transverse process, but not clearly from the ninth, unless it has an entire and well finished facet on its body. If the ninth vertebra has been touched by the tenth rib, it cannot be known from the eighth, if it has not, then it cannot be distinguished from a tenth. It is evident, therefore, although we can generally identify any of the lower dorsal vertebr£e, that still no anatomist could be ab- solutely certain about these vertebrae if separated from the rest of the set; nor could we determine the nature of a lumbar rib, by observing its relation to its vertebra, or the relation of those above it to the bodies and transverse processes of their vertebrae. These various considerations will suffice to show how careful we should be, before forming an opinion as to the nature of any case of rudimentary rib, and the evidence we expect before any case can be received as one of true supernumerary rib.XIT. ON BRANCHES FROM THE FIFTH NERVE TO THE MUSCLES OF THE EYE. In some animals I have found the muscles of the eye to be regu- larly supplied with distinct filaments from the sensory or gan- glionic portion of the fifth pair of nerves, in addition to their ordinaiy supply from the motor nerves. These filaments may readily be found in a careful dissection of the orbit of the sheep, according to the following description, which shortly embraces the result of much labour in making minute dissections of these parts. The superior rectus usually receives two separate filaments, one on its orbital surface from the supra-orbital nerve, and another on its ocular surface, entering the muscle some distance in front of the point of entrance of its motor filaments from the upper division of the third nerve. But both of these may not be found in the same dissection. The internal rectus receives two filaments from the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, which enter on its orbital surface. The external rectus receives one or two small filaments from the lachrymal nerve, also entering on the orbital aspect of the muscle. The retractor muscle is pierced by a fila- ment or filaments from the fifth nerve, arising in the sphenoidal fissure, and associated with the long ciliary nerves. These fila- ments to be seen in various animals piercing the retractor muscle, may be in part traced on to the eye as long ciliary nerves, but, at the same time, they branch, and at least partly end in the muscle. . Filaments from the fifth nerve do not pass dh^ectly to the oblique muscles, but they join the motor nerves near the muscles. The superior oblique may be supplied directly by a filament from' the branch of the fifth which lies to the inner side of the roof of the orbit, but this filament usually joins the fourth nerve as the latter is about to enter the muscle, or it may partly join134 ON BRANCHES l'"EOM THE FIFTH NERVE. the fourtli nerve and partly enter directly into the muscle. The inferior oblique is not entered directly by a branch from the fifth nerve, but the latter constantly sends a twig to join the branch from the third nerve to the inferior oblique, as it passes forwards along the inferior rectus to reach the inferior oblique. This twig comes from below arising in the apex of the orbit from the second division of the fifth nerve, just after the latter has entered the orbit in connection with and close below, the first division. This twig runs obliquely upwards and forwards and terminates by three portions; one or two twigs enter the inferior rectus about or behind its middle; another passes obliquely forwards to join the motor nerve of the inferior oblique, or this one may come up as a long separate filament; and the third passes to the ciliary ganglion as its long root. I was often disappointed in my search for the long or sensory root of the ciliary ganglion in the sheep, looking for it to come from the nasal branch of the fifth, but finding it either wanting, or pre- sent as a very delicate filament, lying with the long ciliary nerves,— until I found that the true long or sensory root came from below, from the second division of the fifth nerve, at the back part of the floor of the orbit. This inferior long root crosses the nerve of the inferior oblique muscle, partly joining it, and passes to the ganglion, which lies close above the nerve of the inferior obhque. I am not mistaken in the nature of these filaments to the muscles of the eye. They are easily seen in a careful dissection, and easily recognised as nerves, traceable backwards to the ganglionic or sensory portion of the fifth nerve. Although an anatomist can readily recognise the nature of even a small nervous filament when it is quite fresh, I have, to prevent doubt on the part of others, often placed each of the filaments in question under the microscope, after its connections were made out, and always found what I had before concluded, that they were white nerves. I have numerous preparations of these filaments from the sheep and calf, which I made ten years ago, and have since repeatedly dissected them and shown them to my pupils and others; but I have not yet been able to find a corresponding arrangement in my dissections of the human orbit.XIIT. ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE, ANATOMICALLY AND PATHOLOGICALLY CONSIDERED. [From the Edinburgh Medical and Surgicai, Journal, April 1854.] Having met with a considerable number of instances of the diverticulum from the small intestine, and with several in which it was concerned in producing death, I have thought it might interest others were I to record the facts with which my investi- gation of this subject has made me acquainted. It is well known to anatomists that, as a rare variety, a diver- ticulum or csecal appendage may be found projecting from the small intestine; and various opinions have been expressed re- garding the origin or nature of this process. My object in this paper is chiefly to state anatomical and pathological facts in connection with the cases I have met with, but it is well that I should first briefly glance at the different views, so as to elicit the bearing of the details to be furnished. Monro^ has observed, "There are two kinds of diverticula, original malformations, and those formed consequent upon the protrusion of the intestines. The preternatural appendices occa- sionally found within the sac of a hernia are generally formed as stated by my grandfather, viz., by the gradual elongation of the • The Morbid Anatomy of the GuUet, Stomach, and Intestines. By Alexander Monro. Edinburgh, 1830, p. 93.138 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. side of the intestine, and probably also by the addition of new matter." His view seems to be that, by an adhesion forming, a portion of bowel is tied down and pulled upon, and thus becomes " gradually elongated into a cul-de-sac of some length." And, although this remark is apphed only to their production in a hernial sac, the view may be extended to the intestine generally. Monro farther remarks—" There is also a species of appendix different from any of the preceding; it has a much thinner covering, is of a globular form, and is shorter and wider. It seems to be formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane, through the other coats of the intestines." This view is strengthened by the comparison to the sacculi, or hernioB, which are known occasionally to occur from other parts, as the gullet, urinary bladder, and gall-bladder, and by the con- sideration that more than one may be found on the intestine of the same subject. The other view is, admitting the occasional occurrence of acquired protrusions on the small intestine, as on other hollow viscera, that the diverticulum is a congenital or original forma- tion, to which is farther to be added Meckel's explanation, that it results from the early connection between the umbilical vesicle and the intestine of the embryo, remaining partially unclosed and growing as the intestine grows. Some, admitting the original or congenital nature of the true diverticulum, objected to Meckel's view on the ground that he could not demonstrate an actual communication from the umbi- lical vesicle into the intestine in the human embryo; and there was the hypothesis of Oken, admitting the communication, but that it took place not with the ileum but the ca3cum, and that the appendix vermiformis was the remains of this early commu- nication. The latter view, however, was a hypothesis, not an inference, and is set aside by the demonstrable fact that the ctecum is seen forming or formed at some distance from the point where the vitelline duct, or pedicle, is seen to be connected with the small intestine. For an able discussion of the whole question, with a state-ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 139 ment of the facts and arguments on either side, I may refer to Meckel's excellent work on anatomy/ and shall here only state briefly the chief arguments advanced by Meckel as the founda- tion of his view, although he laboured at that time under the disadvantage of being vmable actually to demonstrate a continuity of canal between the intestine and the umbilical vesicle in the human embryo. His chief arguments are—That their charac- ters indicate them to be primitive formations, having the same structure as, and continuity with, the intestinal coats ; that they occur almost always at the same part of the intestine, and that the connection between the umbilical vesicle and the bowel occurs at this same part—viz., on the ileum near the caecum; that "we sometimes perceive in very young foetuses a canal which goes across the umbilical sheath, from the vesicle to the abdomen, and by which we can at pleasure empty the vesicle of this fluid, and fill it again;" that " it is not unfrequent, propor- tionally speaking, to find in the full-grown foetus a canal which extends from the intestine to the umbilicus, which opens in this latter place, and is alw^ays attended by the omphalo-mesenteric vessels." And lastly, he alludes to "the analogy with birds, reptiles, and cartilaginous fishes, in which it is proved that the communication in dispute exists at all periods of foetal existence." He admits of course that protrusions or hernise may occur here as elsewhere, and thus accomit for the occasional existence of a diverticulum or pouch on the jejunum, and for the existence occasionally of more than one. It is necessary therefore to distinguish diverticula into two kinds, true and false. On this M. Cruveilhier^ remarks: "These divei-ticula, into the composition of which all the tunics of the intestine enter, are very different from the hernia of the mucous membrane through the muscular coat, a hernia of which I have seen an example in the duodenum, and several in the rest of the small intestine. In a subject recently submitted to my observation, the small intestine presented fifty spheroidal 1 Manual of Descriptive and Pathological Anatomy. By J. F. Meckel, Professor of Anatomy at Halle. London edition, 1838, pp. 375-386. ' ' Traits d'Anatomic Descriptive. Paris, 1852, p. 361.140 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE, tumours, of unequal volume, all situated along the mesenteric border of the intestine, and formed by the hernia of the mucous membrane, through the muscular fibres." Having now drawn attention to the points of interest in con- nection with these diverticula, I shall next give an account of the various cases I have met with and examined, considering them first anatomically and then pathologically. These are twenty in number, of the true diverticulum ilei, and two of the false diverticulum, one on the jejunum, the other on the oeso- phagus, which will serve to contrast with the former or true diverticula. In the woodcut is given an outline of each. These sketches I made with care from the preparations, showing in each a sufficient portion of intestine, and representing accurately the proportion and the various points in the anatomy of each diver- ticulum. They are arranged in a gradual series; and as the numbers of the figures correspond to the same numbers in the descriptive notes, each may be referred to from the notes. I have deemed it best, at the risk of being thought tedious, to give all the facts in connection with each case, and, for brevity's sake, in the form of notes, which were made with the preparations before me. Of the twenty two preparations, eight (Nos. 1, 3, 6, 9, 16, 17, 19, 21) are in my own collection; for the others I am indebted to the Edinburgh Museums; eight (Nos. 2, 4, 7, 10, 12, 13, 20, 22) are in the University Museum ; and the remaining six (Nos. 5, 8, 11, 14, 15, 18) in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. Descriptive Notes of Cases of Diverticula, etc. 1. Pouch on oesophagus. Dried preparation, without history. Projects forwards from oesophagus at bifurcation of trachea, and occupies the recess between and behind the bronchi. It is a blunt laiob-like projection, measuring in depth, length, and thickness f inch. It begins gradually and without any con striction, occupying the entire breadth of the (Esophagus, theON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. measurement of winch, and of the base of the pouch is | inch. The oesopliagus at this point is slightly enlarged laterally, and is if anything larger below the pouch than above it. Pouch terminates in a smooth rounded extremity. The muscular fibres which run longitudinally on the gullet, are seen distinctly to be continued half-way along the pouch, splitting above and below to encase it. Circular fibres are visible on the gullet, but not on the pouch. The pouch is slightly more transparent than the gullet. 2. Dried preparation marked " portion of jejunum, with two small diverticula." The smaller pouch projects directly out- wards like a nut. It measures one inch across and three-fourths of an inch vertically. The commencement is abrupt, and marked by a sharp constriction on all sides. The larger pouch is situated three-fourths of an inch from the other, measures 1^ inch from above down, and 1^ across. It also begins by a sharp circular con- striction, and on one side it is considerably bulged or prolonged. The poi'tion of intestine is plainly marked with A'alvulse con- niventes ; but as it is stuffed, it is impossible to say whether the walls of these pouches differ in thickness from those of the bowel. 3. Dried preparation ; portion of small intestine, with diver- ticulum. Diverticulum one inch in length. Has funnel-shaped origin from whole breadth of bowel. Passes somewhat obliquely from bowel, which is considerably larger on the side of the obtuse angle. Forms a blunt cone, terminating in a smooth rounded extremity, without any appearance of ligament or mesentery. It proceeds from the bowel nearer to the mesentery on one side than the other. STo valviilse conniventes, but a small crescentic fold at commencement of diverticulum on side of acute angle. There is an evident continuity of tissue between the walls of the bowel and diverticulum. 4. Dried preparation, without history. Diverticulum two inches in length and 1;^ in diameter. Arises from whole breadth of bowel abruptly, and marked by a slight constriction, except on one side where they are gradually continuous. Direction, oblique fi'om the bowel, which is considerably smaller on the14J ON DIVERTICULA FEOM THE SMALL INTESTINE. side next the acute angle. The body is straight and very little tapering, and terminates in a smooth and rounded extremity, without any appearance of a ligament or mesentery. It is situated on the bowel much nearer the mesentery on one side than the other. The intestine presents no valvulze conniventes, but there is a small crescentic fold at the acute angle. Both the longitudinal and cu'cular muscular fibres are distinctly visible on the diverticulum, and continuous with those of the intestine. 5. Wet preparation; "small intestine having a cul-de-sac, from the body of a person in which no other morbid appearance was observed." Diverticulum 1| inch in length. Begins gradually from entire breadth of convexity of bowel. Directed obliquely, and bowel considerably smaller on the side next the acute angle. Terminates in a rounded, slightly conical ex- tremity, without appearance of a ligament. It is somewhat bent on the side of the acute angle, and along this edge of it lies a narrow mesentery, 6. Dried preparation, without history. Diverticulum two inches long. Arises gradually from whole breadth of bowel. Is directed obliquely from bowel, which is larger on the side of the obtuse angle than on the other. It is conical, and terminates in a smooth rounded apex, without any appearance of a ligament. It proceeds from one side of the bowel close to the mesentery, and, continued from the latter, rising up at right angles from it, is a small mesenteric fold, which reaches J of the length of the diverticulum. On the concavity of this curved piece of intestine, crescentic folds, like small valvulaa conniventes, are seen, and one more distinct at the acute angle where the diverticulum begins, but there are no folds on the convexity of the intestine. 7. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length. Begins by funnel-shaped origin on both sides, from whole breadth of bowel, and from that part of it which is directly opposite from the apparent former attachment of the mesentery. Is directed with very little obliquity, and the intestine is consider- ably larger on the side of the more obtuse angle, being in dia- meter li inch on one side, and one inch on the other. In form it is conical, the depth considerably exceeding the thickness orON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 143 breadth, and terminates by a smooth rounded end, without any appearance of Hgament or mesentery. The intestine presents no valvular conniventes. 8. Dried preparation. Diverticuhxm two inches in length, and conical in form. Has a funnel-shaped origin from the whole breadth of the bowel, opposite from the traces of the former mesenteric attachment. Has a slightly obUque direction, and the bowel is largest on the side of the obtuse angle. Extremity smooth and rounded, and no appearance of ligament or mesen- tery. No valvulse conniventes on the intestine. 9. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length, conical and curved. Has a gradual origin from about half the breadth of the bowel. It is directed obliquely, and the bowel is much larger on the side of the obtuse angle than on the other. Termination like point of fore-finger, with a little pea-shaped prolongation towards the concave side. It is connected with the bowel on one side, close to the mesentery, which sends a small mesenteric fold along the concavity of the diverticulum. No valvulas conniventes, but there is a crescentic fold at the acute angle, a httle below the entrance into the diverticulum. 10. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length. Origin funnel-shaped from whole breadth of bowel, and nearer the mesentery on one side than the other. Direction horizontal, and bowel apparently of equal size on the two sides. Form somewhat conical, the last half-inch tapering to a blunt apex, which is smooth and rounded without any appearance of a liga- ment. There is a small mesentery for |ds of its length, prolonged from the mesentery of the bowel, on that side which is nearest the mesentery. No valvnlaa conniventes on intestine. The longitudinal and circular muscular fibres are distinct on the diverticulum, and are seen to be continuous with those on the bowel. 11. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length, and conical. Origin funnel-shaped, from entire breadth of bowel on side opposite from mesentery, but nearer to it on one side than the other. Direction somewdiat oblique, and bowel con- siderably larger on the side of the obtuse angle. Termination144 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. smooth and rounded, without appearance of Hgament or mesen- tery. Intestine without valvulse conniventes. 12. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length. Origin gradual, or without constriction, from convexity of bowel, nearly equi-distant on both sides from mesentery. Direc- tion nearly horizontal, but is, as it were, continued from one end of the bowel, and this is a little larger than the other. Termi- nation smooth and rounded, without ligament or mesentery. Both sets of muscular fibres are plainly visible on the diverti- culum, though less so than on the bowel, and they are scarcely distinguishable towards the termination of the diverticulum. Intestine has no valvulse conniventes. 13. Dried preparation. Diverticulum 2^ inches in length. Origin, from whole breadth of bowel, funnel-shaped on one side, and somewhat constricted on the other; and a little nearer the mesentery on one side than the other. It is more in the direc- tion of the bowel on one side than the other, and the end fi'om which it seems more continued is here the smaller of the two, being that next the obtuse angle. Termination smooth and rounded, without appearance of ligament or mesentery. Intes- tine has no valvulas conniventes. 14. Dried preparation. Diverticulum 3^ inches in length. Origin gradual, from whole breadth of convexity of bowel, but nearer mesentery on one side. It is shaped somewhat like the forefinger, but twice as large, and is slightly bent to one side; and that end of the bowel which opens more directly into it is considerably larger than the other end. Termination smooth and rounded; the blood-vessels are injected, and are seen to cross over the bowel on both sides, and run along both the con- vexity and concavity of the diverticulum. On the concavity, an inch from the blind extremity, is a depression and puckering, and convergence of blood-vessels, as if a cord had passed off here. Small valvulaj conniventes are seen in the interior of the bowel, and a more distinct crescentic fold at the angle in the centre of the concavity of the portion of bowel. 15. Dried preparation. Diverticulum four inches in length. Origin somewhat abruptly from nearly whole breadth of bowel,ON DIVEETICULA FEOM THE SMALL INTESTmE. 14D and nearer to mesentery on one side. Bowel much larger at one end tlian tlie other. Body of diverticulum wider than the com- mencement, increasing to within 1^ inch from the extremity, towards which it now tapers to a distinct apex, without appear- ance of ligament. Vessels are seen to run along that surface which lies nearest the mesentery of the intestine. Intestine destitute of valvulaa conniventes. 16. Dried preparation. Diverticulum three inches in length. Origin gradual, from about half the breadth of the intestine, and nearer the mesentery on one side. Is directed obliquely from the bowel, which is largest on the side next the obtuse angle, and somewhat bulged or uniformly dilated opposite the commence- ment of the diverticulum. Body of diverticulum is curved, with convexity on side nearest the mesentery, and has uniform diameter of | inch, dilating in its last half-inch to a termination abruptly bulged on one side, giving it a transverse diameter of 1^ inch. No appearance of mesentery or ligament. Intestine presents no appearance of valvulas conniventes. 17. This specimen I examined in the recent state. Diverti- culum three inches in length. Origin, gradual or somewhat funnel-shaped, from about | of the breadth of the intestine, the diameter of the latter being 1^ inch, and that of the diverticulum one inch. Direction oblique from the intestine, which is some- what larger on the side of the obtuse angle. Body of diverti- culum is round, and increases somewhat in diameter towards the end, where it is bulged or enlarged to one side. The termina- tion is smooth and rounded, except to the side where it is bulged. Here there is a pointed extremity giving oflF a ligamentous cord, which was two inches in length, and blended with the mesentery. I regret that this was not more exactly noted at the time, but from my notes made then, and the appearance of the dried pre- paration now, I believe I am correct in stating that there was a narrow mesentery posteriorly in which this terminal ligament was contained. The diverticulum is attached to the bowel nearer the mesentery on one side, that on which the mesentery of the diverticulum has been situated. The diverticulum was at once seen hanging free down in the abdomen, not tied up upon K146 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. the mesentery of the bowels. The line indicating the attachment of its foi-mei- mesenteric fold, is on one surface near that border of the diverticulum which is continued from the obtuse angle, a little posterior to where the ligament is seen in the illustration, fig. 17. The intestine is entirely destitute of valvulae conniventes, and the diverticulum was situated on it about three feet from the ceecum. The longitudinal and circular fibres are obscurely visible on it, but as much so as on the bowel, the coats being evidently continued from one to the other. The ligament at the extremity appears to arise or be continued gradually from the walls or tissue of the pointed portion of the diverticulum which runs towards it. 18. Dried preparation of the small intestine of a child, with diverticulum 1^ inch in length. Arises somewhat abruptly from nearly entire breadth of intestine, and near mesentery on one side. Body of diverticulum is oblique and curved, and enlarges as it passes outwards, at middle having a diameter very little less than that of bowel, which is half an inch. Towards the extre- mity it again contracts, and from the apex is continued a narrow pointed portion, doubled upon the rest, in the preparation. There is no appearance of a mesentery or ligament. Intestine destitute of valvulas conniventes. 19. I removed this specimen at a post-mortem examination of a male aged 71, who died much emaciated, but without any apparent disease. Diverticulum 1^ inch in length. Origin gradual from whole breadth of bowel, which is somewhat en- larged from before backwards opposite the diverticulum. It arose from the concavity of the intestine close to the mesentery, and passed up resting on and attached to the mesentery. It is somewhat conical, passing up to a rounded extremity, the diameter of the body being IJ inch, and that of the extremity 1 inch. Proceeding from its posterior aspect near the extremity, is a secondary diverticulum^ forming a curved conical process, f inch in length. This secondary diverticulum arises abruptly from the parent diverticulum at its back part near the extremity, a circular constriction passing round, across which some liga- mentous fibres pass. It now curves downwards and backwardsON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. into the mesentery. It is at first somewhat dilated, being here the size of the httle finger, half an inch in diameter, and then tapers to a small rounded apex, from which a ligament passed. From the upper and fore part, near the apex, of the parent diver- ticulum, there projects a small pouch, like a tubercle or split pea, which has mucla tlie appearance of a hernia of part of the coats. It begins gradually at one side, and two-thirds round its base there is a slight constriction. The parent diverticulum is evidently continuous with the struc- ture of the intestine, both longitudinal and circular fibres being plainly continued from the one to the other. The circular fibres form a uniform layer, and at the base run obliquely across the bowel as its circular fibres, whilst the longitudinal fibres of the bowel turn and run up longitudinally, especially on one sur- face. The walls of the diverticulum and of the intestine have the same thickness. The secondary diverticulum is thicker and less transparent, but the circular fibres are obscurely visible. The little secondary hernia-like pouch is more transparent, and no fibres can be distinguished on its walls, as if it had passed through the muscular coat. In the di'ied preparation the apex of the secondary diverticulum is smooth and rounded, as if no ligament had been attached to it; this, along with the mesentery, having been removed before drying the preparatioii. The intestine is wholly destitute of valvulte conniventes. The diverticulum was situated on the bowel a distance of eighteen inches from the caecum. In the illustration, fig. 19, to show the position and form of the secondary diverticulum, I have drawn it as if passing from the side; naturally it passes backwards, and is not seen in a front view. 20. Dried preparation. Diverticulum, three inclies in length and very wide, with secondary diverticulum an inch in length. Origin gradual, from concavity of intestine, close to mesentery. Diverticulum, at its base or origin, measures two inches in breadth, and 1-^ in thickness, being considerably larger than the largest side of the intestine. This on one side is twice as large as on the other. Diverticulum forms a wide blunt cone, the ex- tremity smooth and rounded, but from its posterior aspect, near148 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. to the extremitj, passes off a secondary diverticulum, resembling, but larger than that in the last preparation. This secondary pouch IS a curved cone, bent backwards upon the parent diverti- culum. It begins by a constriction, is one inch in length, and at the middle | inch in diameter. From its apex passes a lio-a- ment or band, forming the thick free edge of a naiTow mesentery, li in length, which lies along the corresponding surface of the parent diverticulum, and is continued from the mesentery of the bowel. The circular fibres are plainly visible on the diverticulum, becoming gradually thinner towards the extremity, but they are more distinct on the intestine, the longitudinal fibres of which are likewise visible. The intestine is destitute of valvulte conniventes. 21. This specimen I examined in the recent condition, and it is now preserved as a wet preparation. The diverticulum is 3^ inches in length, intestiniform, curved, and bound down at the extremity, by the attachment of a termi- nal ligament. Origin funnel-shaped, from the convexity of the intestine, but nearer the mesentery on one side. The diameter of the intestine here is li inch. The diverticulum, at its com- mencement, has a diameter of one inch. The body of the diver- ticulum may be divided into three stages. The first inch is funnel-shaped, contracting at the end to a diameter of half an inch. The second inch continues to have this diameter, and the last 1;^ or 1^ inch is contracted to a diameter of ^ inch, the entire length of the tube being from 3| to 3^ inches. From the nar- row but rounded apex proceeds a ligament | inch in length, which is inserted into or continuous with the mesentery, half an inch from the mesenteric margin of the bowel, at the part where the diverticulum arises. This ligament is formed, as it were, by the serous coat of the diverticulum continued from its extremity. It is at first a narrow flattened band, but expands tiuangularly as it joins the mesentery, with the serous surface of which it is continuous upwards and downwards, and it consists of two layers of serous membrane, containing some fat and cellular tissue. There is no mesentery along the diverticulum. Thei*e is no ap- pearance of effused lymph or morbid adhesion.ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 149 The extremity of the diverticulum being tlius bound down to the mesentery, a ring or oval space is formed, bounded chiefly by the diverticulum, partly by the ligament, by half an inch of the surface of the mesentery, and by the side of the bowel from this to the origin of the diverticulum. This ring has a diameter of about an inch, and admits the points of three fingers. Through this, as I shall afterwards relate, a loop of intestine had passed, and, becoming strangulated, was the occasion of death. As I had only a mass of intestines sent me for examination, I am un- able to say how far from the caacum the diverticulum was situated, but, as there are valvulsE conniventes moderately marked near the place, I suppose it to be about the beginning of the last third of the small intestine. 22. Wet preparation. Diverticulum six inches in length, ver- miform, and at the extremity tied down to the mesentery by a ligament. The ring thus formed was likewise the cause of death, and the constriction near the extremity, and the dilatation beyond, seem to have been acquired or caused by the peculiar position of the diverticulum in the strangulated mass, as I shall subsequently describe. It arises by a funnel-shaped commencement from the bowel, which has here a diameter of one inch, whilst that of the diverti- culum is about half an inch. Its diameter is pretty uniform until near the extremity, 1^ inch after its origin there is a slight twist upon it, and at this part it is rather narrower than before and after. The last portion forms an abrupt oval expansion, one inch in length, and f inch in diameter at the middle. This is sepa- rated from the rest by a narrow constriction, i inch in length and diameter, and feels thick as if from the gathering together of the coats. On rubbing the coats between the finger, those of the di- verticulum feel thicker than those of the bowel, and the dilated extremitv of the diverticulum feels thicker still, thoutrh not so much so as the constricted portion. This constriction corresponds to where the diverticulum itself was embraced in the strano-ulat- mg ring. Attached to the extremity of the diverticulum, there is a pecu-150 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. liar pendulous body, soft, solid, and dark coloured. It is covered by serous membrane, and, on division, is seen to be composed apparently of fat and cellular tissue, very like a soft substance lying in considerable quantity between the two layers of the me- senteiy of the preparation, and is therefore apparently analogous to one of the appendices epiploic^ on the great intestine of fat subjects. Passing from the point where this pendulous body joins the diverticulum, is a ligamentous cord. It is round, strong, and fibrous-looking; is two inches in length, and then joins the me- sentery by a triangular expansion f inch in length, the serous surface of the mesentery running up each of its sides. The point where it becomes continuous with the mesentery is two inches up from the mesenteric border of the bowel. There is a narrow mesentery, inch in breadth, running along the concavity of the diverticulum, as far as the constricted point, within an inch of the extremity, and arising below from the bowel, not from the mesentery of the bowel. The diverticulum is placed on the bowel, one-half nearer the mesentery on one side than the other. The bowel at this part presents no valvulse conniventes, but there is a distinct trace of them about eighteen inches higher up the canal. In this case, then, it will be observed, there is formed a large ring, bounded for six inches by the diverticulum, for two inches by its terminal ligament, and for other two inches by the surface of the mesenteiy. Its diameter is about three inches, and it ad- mits the whole hand. Remarhs on the preceding Cases. Eeviewing these notes of cases of diverticulum from the intes- tine, it is evident that they must be considered as original or con- genital formations, and not of the nature of hernise or yieldings of one or all of the intestinal coats. Figure 2, representing two false diverticula from the jejunum, presents a striking contrast in respect to the form of the projection, beginning by a constric- tion, and then bulging outwards, aneurism-like, in the mode iii which a pouch formed by a dilating force from within usuallyON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. enlarges. Here we find two pouches, and notice that they occur on the jejunum ; but no instance has been recorded of the occur- rence of two processes having the form or structure of the true diverticulum ilei. As long as the pouch was short or small, I would not regard a constriction at the commencement as a neces- sary character, as illustrated by the pouch on the oesophagus, represented in fig. 1; which, though almost as natural look- ing as the true diverticulum ilei represented in fig. 3, must still be regarded as a pouch formed by partial rupture or sudden yielding of the oesophageal walls into the recess between the bronchi, as we do not know of any other explanation, from de- velopment or otherwise, which could be given for the existence of such pouches. Dilatations or pouches formed by rupture or yielding of one or all of the oesophageal coats occur, according to Meckel, only at the commencement of the oesophagus, as the pharynx contracts somewhat rapidly at this point, behind the cricoid cartilage, to the proper commencement of the oesojjhagus. A well-marked case in point, taken from William Hunter's collection, is related by Baillie,' in which a large pendulous pouch projected down- wai'ds and backwards from the commencement of the gullet. A cherry stone had rested there for a few days and formed a recess, which, during five years, became gradually dilated by the entrance of the food, and at last occasioned death by preventing the food passing to the stomach. According to Rokitanski these cylindrical or conical dilatations or pouches on the oesophagus may form at all parts, but are most common near the bifurcation of the trachea. In fig. 1 it will be seen that the pouch exists precisely in this situation. Above this point the oesophagus is supported by the contact of the soft but still resisting membranous back of the trachea ; but at the bifur- cation of the latter it suddenly loses this support, and, although in all its course the oesophagus is as little supported on each side as it suddenly here becomes in front, it is still interesting to notice this occasional position of the pouch in the recess between the 1 Morbid Anat. of the Human Body, London, 1799-; Part 3, Plate I., fig. 2.10^ ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. bronchi. Tins recess is naturally filled up by a mass of bronchial glands, usually of a dark colour; and in connection with this cir- cumstance may be mentioned the case referred to by Roldtanski, " in which the mucous membrane of the oesophagus was dragged out in consequence of the shrivelling of an adherent tracheal gland." The diverticula represented from fig. 3 to fig. 22, inclusive, are, however, evidently original pouches or processes, continuous with the tissue of the intestine. They appear all to have been situated near, or towards, the lower or colic extremity of the ileum. Of the two of which I had the opportunity of ascertain- ing the exact situation on the length of the canal of the small intestine, one, fig. 19, was eighteen inches, and the other, fig. 17, twice that distance upwards fi-om the CEecum.' As to the situa- tion of the diverticulum in the other cases, I can judge only by the valvulse conniventes, as I had only separate portions of the intestine. We can, however, form a very accurate opinion usually as to the situation of a portion of bowel whether it was from the upper or lower end, or middle, of the small intestine, by the size or absence of these valvulas. Very large and close together from about the entrance of the bile duct, downwards through the upper third, they gradually diminish in size and number in the middle third, and in the lower third are at first few and slight, and then altogether wanting. A portion of jejunum has thick coats, and when held uj) to the light, presents dark rings, and when everted or laid open the valvulse ai*e seen. A portion of ileum at the lower end again, has thin coats, is more transparent, and no dark rings or valvulas are visible. The same distinction is easily made although the preparation is dried. When held up to the light the jejunum presents numerous dark characteristic rings, and the lower portion of the ileum is thin, transparent, and destitute of rings. If, then, a portion of small intestine is pi'esented to us, either wet or dried, in which there are no valvulae or dark rings, we can with certainty pronounce it to be from the lower end of the ileum. The statements of anatomists differ as to how much 1 In another case since met with, the diverticulum was thirty inches from the csecum.ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. of tlie ileum is Wcanting in valvulas conniventes. It may vary in different cases, but M. Cruveilhier's statement, that " sometimes they are altogether wanting in the last two or three feet of the bowel," is, I think, incorrect, as representing them to exist too low down. My own observation would lead me to say that ge- nerally they are wanting in the lower third of the small intestine, that is for about six feet upwards from the caecum, allowing twenty feet as the average length of the small intestines. In one instance in which the small intestine was twenty-four feet in length, the lower half was entirely destitute of valvulse conni- ventes. At the commencement of the lower third, six feet from the CEecum, they are very small and scattered, or can scarcely be said to exist, and soon altogether disappear, so that (while I do not deny that sometimes they may exist nearer the caecum) at least in the last four or five feet of ileum, there are usually no valvulse conniventes ; and therefore a portion of bowel bearing a diverticulum, and free from these valvulse, or dark rings, may be safely pronounced to have been taken from within this distance from the caecum. Now this conclusion embraces all the specimens of true diver- ticulum, twenty in number, above described and figured. In one or two there were traces of valvulse, where the diverticulum oc- cuiTed, indicating that the situation was not more than five or six feet above the c^cum, whilst m all the others the intestine presented no valvulse. For this remarkable fact, that the true diverticulum occurs constantly near the caecum (whilst the false diverticula occur indiscriminately at any part of the alimentary canal, and may be one or more in number), taken in connection with its evident original natm-e and continuity with the intestine, there must be a reason ; and the view of Meckel that this explanation is af- forded by the early connection between the vitelline duct and the intestine, appears a very satisfactory one, when it is further con- sidered that the vitelline duct joins the canal at the same part where the diverticuhmi occurs, viz., at the lower part of the small intestine; and seeing that it is not a point capable of proof from actual demonstration, I am not aware of any objection that can154 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. be advanced against the conclusion, that Meckel's explanation is a very probable one, and a sound deduction from the considera- tion of all the facts of the case. The occurrence of a cord or ligament passing from the ex- tremity of the diverticulum is a point of considerable interest. This cord, which may be called the terminal ligament, may be looked upon as the remains either of the early vitelline canal, or of the more persistent pedicle of the vitelline sac, and of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels which passed along it. Its presence was distinctly noted in only five out of the twenty cases of true diverticulum above recorded. But I may observe that it may have been present in the cases of the dried ]n'eparations, and removed in the dissection without leaving any trace. This has been done in one of the cases in which I dissected it myself when recent, and now the dried preparation presents no trace of a terminal ligament, but a smooth apex. In all the cases in which the specimens were examined in the wet condition—Nos. 17, 19, 21, 22,—thei'e was a cord or terminal ligament. In case 21, as already observed, this ligament was short and might pass for a serous adhesion, but this view of its nature was improbable, and in case No. 22, this ligament is a true cord, fibrous, rounded and smoothly covered by serous membrane. On several of the specimens there are what I have called secondary diverticula. In Nos. 19 and 20 these are very distinct. Also in No. 18 there is a narrower portion from the end; and in Nos. 16 and 17 there is a projecting corner or portion to one side, from which in No. 17 the terminal ligament passed off. These appear to be portions of the original diverticulum which had not undergone the same growth or enlargement as the rest. The form, as seen in figs. 19 and 20, seems to render it likely that the original diverticulum had been curved down, and that the part at the turn had become dUated, or that beyond it had ceased to grow. The existence of a mesentery to the diverticulum does not ap- pear to be constant. In the above dried preparations it may have existed, although no traces are now visible. In several there was a narrow mesentery running along one side. A155 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. mesentery is not necessary for such a process as it is for the intestine, where it is necessary both for the retention of the bowel and the conveyance of the vessels and nerves. In one of the cases, No 15, the vessels were seen to run along one side, that nearest to the mesentery of the bowel; and in another No. 14, they are seen to cross directly over the bowel on both aspects, and run along the diverticuKim both on its concavity and con- vexity. That the diverticulum does not necessarily require a mesentery, as far as a conveyance for the blood-vessels is con- cerned, is also seen in a case figured by Cloquet.^ " The ap- pendix was three inclies long. Its serous membrane was perfectly smooth. The mesenteric artery furnished a principal branch, which descended upon one surface of the appendix, giving off branches to the right and left; the other side was only supplied by some fine, irregular, vascular ramifications.^ With regard to their relation to the intestine and mesentery, it will be noticed that one or two came off at the mesenteric attachment, and ascended, adhering to the mesentery,—that one or two came off from the middle or nearly the middle of the bowel,—that is, equidistant from the mesenteric border; but that the great majority were placed upon the bowel nearer the mesen- tery on one side than on the other, having usually about two- thirds of the circumference of the bowel on one side, and one- third on the other. Whether this situation was anterior or posterior could not at any rate be determined from the exaruina- tion merely of a portion of intestine; and in reality, when we consider how the convolutions of the intestines naturally lie, the terras anterior and posterior become inapplicable. We com- 1 Surgical Pathology; by Jules Cloquet. "With Plates. London edition, 1832 Plate XVI., fig. 1. » Since the above appeared in the Journal, I have met with another specimen of true diverticulum ilei, in the dissecting room. As mentioned on page 152, it is situ- ated 30 inches from the caecum, and there are no valvulaj conniventes near it. It is 3J inches in length, begins funnel-shaped, is cylindrical in form, of the same dia- meter as the bowel, and terminates by a smooth blunt extremity, without any terminal ligament. There is no mesentery to the diverticulum, but the blood-vessels are seen to run along both sides, especially that next the ciccum. The lining mucous mem- brane is natural, and is covered with villi. Here, then, there is neither mesentery nor ligament, but the diverticulum is free on all sides, with its smooth serous invest- ment.156 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE, monly speak of the intestine presenting two borders and two surfaces—a mesenteric or attached border, and a free or convex border (although this is not a border in the proper sense of that term, in, at least, the distended bowel), commonly designated by the obscure expression of the part " opposite the mesentery," mean- ing thereby farthest from the mesenteiy. But tbe surfaces have no constant position; what is anterior at one time may become posterior at another, according as tlie convolutions change; what is the front of a convolution passing from left to right, may, by the turning over of that convolution, become posterior, and then the bowel is passing from right to left; as, it is clear, in the ar- rangement or retention of the bowels, there must be a turn to the left side for every one that exists to the right, except the last to join the cascum. Nor has the mesentery itself, except at and to- wards its root, any fixed anterior or posterior surface. It rather lies laterally, like the ribs of a partially opened fan, that surface which is anterior joined to a convolution passing from left to right, be- coming posterior on the next convolution,passing from right to left; and these, together with the convolutions, change about in regard to convexity and concavity, so that, of a sigmoid portion of bowel and mesentery, what was convex may be changed to concave. It is therefore deceptive to speak of the movable intestine hav- ing an anterior or posterior surface, and in expressing any rela- tion or attachment, as that of a diverticulum, we can only say that it was placed on the bowel nearer the mesentery on one side than on the other. Lastly, it will be observed of these diverticula, that the great majority have a more or less oblique direction from the bowel, and that the bowel on one side is larger, usually considerably larger, than on the other. Whether the larger side was the colic or gastric side in the above cases, I am unable to say with cer- tainty, but am inclined to the view that the larger was the gastric end, which would give the conclusion that the diverticulum was usually prolonged from the bowel obliquely downwards, i.e., in the direction in which the chyle or intestinal contents were mov- ing, and it is conceivable that the obHquity had been determined in^this way, although I do not propose this as more than a sug-ON DIVERTICULA TKOM THE SMALL INTESTINE. gestion. There is usually no valve or other means to prevent a free entrance to tlie cavity of the diverticulum. When the acute angle is \v ell marked, there is a small crescentic fold at this part, and again, in Figs. 11, 13, 14, 15, and 20, there is a small cre- scentic fold at the angle where the two sides of the douhled-in piece of intestine meet over against the mouth of the diverticu- lum, like the septum of the bronchi facing the trachea; but such a crescentic fold will always be produced by bending up any portion of intestine at the sharp point of the bend, even although the interior was previously quite smooth; and any such small crescentic fold seen on one side or near the mouth of the diverti- culum, is not to be regarded as a valvular obstruction, or in any way involving this principle. The mouth of the diverticulum is usually funnel-shaped and smoothly open, so that the intestinal fluids must freely enter the recess, and again leave it by its own contraction. Diverticula from the small intestine patliologically considered. These diverticula may be considered pathologically under four heads. 1. As a cause of strangulation of the bowels. 2. As part, or the whole, of the contents of a hernial sac. 3. As pre- disposing to the lodgement and accumulation of foreign matters; and 4. As a part liable to disease. 1. Under the first of these heads are included two of the pre- ceding list of cases, being the two at the end, Nos. 21 and 22, and one or two others have been recorded by authors. Case I.—This is No. 21 in the notes and figures. The case occurred in the practice of Dr Archibald of St Andrews, aiid the intestines were put into my hands for examination by my friend, Dr Keillor. The patient, a young woman, was seized with symp- toms of strangulation, and died after a short illness. The mass of intestines which I received was much gorged with blood, and there was a peculiar loop, embracing and strangulating a portion of the intestine, which was in a gangrenous condition, and easily gave way in the centre during the examination. On careful examination, in the empty state, and also by inflation of the158 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. bowels, I made out the arrangement already described in the notes, No. 21, and seen in fig. 21 A, and also the following par- ticulars regarding the strangulation, as represented in fig. 21 B. The diverticulum was, as I have described, bent over and fixed down to the mesentery by a short terminal ligament. Whether this ligament existed originally, or is of the nature of an elon- gated adhesion, I cannot positively say, only there is no appear- ance of adhesion or old inflammation elsewhere, and it has all the appearance of a natural serous ligament, or double fold of peri- toneum connecting a viscus. A loop or ring was thus formed. When the bowel and diverticulum are inflated, it has the appear- ance I have drawn, fig. 21 A. The ring is oval, and, when rounded, an inch or little more in diameter. It is chiefly formed by the diverticulum, the rest being completed by the ligament, and a small extent of the mesentery and side of the bowel. Through this fatal ring, lying loose and open among the convo- lutions of the intestine, a convolution had passed. It is now easily drawn out of the ring, and the part embraced is marked off by two constrictions ; the first is immediately above the origin of the diverticulum, and is but slightly marked; the second is fifteen to eigliteen inches (according as it is measixred along the concavity or the convexity), farther up the canal, and is well marked, the bowel being, for an inch in length, contracted to one-half its diameter. The narrower constriction appears to be higher up the canal, i.e., on the gastric side of the other. These constrictions continue, notwithstanding the distension of the in- testine with air. When the strangulated portion of bowel is replaced, and the intestine distended, forcible strangulation is then apparent. This will be readily understood when it is recol- lected that the size of the ring is not greater than the ordinary diameter of a moderately distended single piece of small intestine, whereas, besides two portions, there was, of course, also through it, the mesentery passing to the strangulated portion. Case II.—This is No. 22 in the notes and figures. It is a wet preparation in the Monro collection, and in the printed cata- logue is designated, " Process from the ilium which formed aON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 159 knot round a fold of the intestine, causing strangulation of the included portion of the bowel; the process near its extremity is attached to a ligamentous band." On careful examination of the preparation, I made out the anatomy described in No. 22, and the following additional points connected with the strangulation. We have seen that there was f )rmed a large ring; first, by the diverticulum, six inches in length ; secondly, by its strong terminal ligament, two inches in length ; and thirdly, by two inches of the surface of the mesen- tery, besides a part of the side of the bowel; the ring being three inches in diameter, and sufficient to allow the whole hand to pass within it. Through this ring a portion of small intestine, eighteen inches in length, had passed; and, on withdrawing it from the ring, which is easily done, the strangulated portion is still plainly marked off by constrictions. One of these, moderately marked, is immediately above the origin of the diverticulum, where tlie bowel had turned round and passed through the ring close below it; the other is situated eighteen inches higher up the intestine, and is well marked, being, for an inch in length, as narrow as the little finger, whilst at the lower constriction the bowel is con- tracted for a third only of its diameter, for the distance of an incli and a half. Eighteen inches then of bowel, -with its mesentery, which is thick and loaded with fat, had passed through the ring; but this as yet had not caused strangulation, as, after distending the bowel on both sides, there is ample room for it, in the three-inch diameter ring, to move freely in and out, without obstruction or bending round the edge of the ring. The loose end of the di- verticulum itself has turned round and passed through between the two pieces of intestine, and has thus tightened itself round one side of the bowel. Through the fatal ring is seen to have passed, as shown in the diagram, fig. 22 B—first, the two sides of the knuckle of intestine, with the accompanying mesen- tery included between them; and, secondly, between these and in front of their mesentery, the pendulous body, the last inch of the diverticulum, and the contiguous portion of the terminal ligament. But for the end of the diverticulum also passing through the■iOU ON DIVERTICULA TROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. ring, there would have been no strangulation with this amount of intestine and mesenteiy, as the ring is wide and loose, but, by the end of the diverticulum passing through, its first porti n be- came tightened and the ring narrowed. There is first that side of the bowel where the diverticulum arises, strangulated by the diverticulum drawn across its front, the mesentery compressing It behmd; then the other side of the strangulated bowel is crossed in front by the diverticulum, which then turns round behind it, and then forwards through the ring, thus going completely round this end of the bowel. The faither the diverticulum made its way through the ring, the tighter it would draw the ring and constrict especially that end of the bowel which it embraced on all sides. On the latter, accordingly, the stricture is now best marked. The narrow constriction on the diverticulum itself within an inch of its end, is now seen to be the part where it is com- pressed by the ring, and the dilated last inch is the strangulated part beyond the ring. The ligament is not concerned in pro- ducing the strangulation, although primarily it formed part of the large ring. It has, as seen in the sketch, where it is rejsre- sented by a dotted line, also passed through the ring, but it not tight, and would act rather in preventing the diverticulum from going further through, if that were possible. The great resemblance between these two cases will be ren- dered more apparent by reference to the figures 21 and 22. These, it will be understood, are merely outline sketches. They were made with the preparations before me, and convey a more accurate idea of the anatomy and arrangement, tban could have otherwise been done. Fig. 21 A represents the diverticulum and the fatal ring formed by it, and its terminal ligament, and the surface of the mesenteiy between the ligament and the bowel; the moderate constriction on the bowel close above the diverti- culum, and the second constriction which was eighteen inches higher up. Fig. 21 B shows the manner in which the ring em- braced the portion of intestine and mesentery. Figs. 22 A and B are corresponding views of the preparation in the second case, showing the parts as already described. This preparation is figured by Monro. Of this I was not aware until after the aboveON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 161 description and my two sketches of it were in the hands of the printer and engraver. Monro's figure (Plate III., p. 179, op. cit.) shows the portion of bowel strangulated by the diverticu- lum encircling it, and the latter itself through the loop. No farther information is furnished, either as to the anatomy of the diverticulum, or the history of tlie case, than that above given in the extract from the printed catalogue. A case remarkably similar to the two preceding, in its princi- pal features, has been recorded by Professor Pirrie of Aberdeen.^ A lad seventeen years of age, and in good health, was suddenly seized with symptoms of strangulation, and died in sixty hours from the commencement of the attack. On dissection, Dr Pirrie found a portion of intestine, about twelve inches in length, strangulated through a loop formed by a diverticulum adhering to the mesentery by a ligament, the included twelve inches of bowel being greatly distended and in a state approaching gan- grene. There was no adhesion between the loop and the in- cluded bowel, as the latter could be drawn out of the loop. Two constrictions are seen on the drawing given by Dr Pirrie, one close above the origin of the diverticulum, and moderately marked, the other twelve inches farther up, deeper and more abrupt, contracting the bowel to about half its diameter. The diverticulum was 11 inch in length, and the terminal ligament being figured as of the same length, and as attached to the mesen- tery two or three inches from the edge of the bowel, the ring must have had a diameter of about two inches. " The diverticulum," says Dr Pirrie, " at its entrance into the intestine, was furnished with a semilunar valve, formed by a doubling of the mucous membrane ; but the diverticvdum com- municated with the intestine, and contained intestinal matters. It was 11 inch in length, and terminated in a slightly dilated cid-de-sac; from the extremity of which a membranous band was sent oflF, one extremity of which was evidently continuous with the serous coat of the diverticulum, and the other as evi- dently not merely attached to, but becoming continuous with, 1 Monthly Journal of Medical Science. July 1849. « A remarkable case of stran- gulation caused by a diverticulum."162 ON DIVERTICULA. FROM TtfE SMALL INTESTINE. the anterior lamella of the mesentery." In the drawing, it is seen to leave the intestine near the mesentery on one side by a funnel-shaped origin. It is directed with very little obliquity, and has an average diameter of ^ to ^ inch, enlarges somewhat towards the extremity, and presents two slight constrictions, which, however, appear to be accounted for in the drawings by their position as they present themselves at different parts of the strangulating loop. It is not said how far from the ctecum the diverticulum was placed on the intestine; but from the state- ment, in the description of the pathological appearances, that " the lower third of the ileum" was collapsed, I may infer that it was about four feet above the caecum. I am also indebted to Dr Pirrie's paper for a reference to the catalogues of the Museums of St Bartholomew's Hospital and the College of Surgeons of Ireland. The catalogue of the collection at Bartholomew's contains the following reference to a preparation which appears very closely to resemble the three preceding ones. " Portion of small intes- tine, from which a diverticulum is continued. The extremity of the diverticulum is adherent to the contiguous j^art of the mesentery, so as to form a circular aj^erture or ring. Through this aperture a portion of hitestine, twelve inches long, passed and became strangulated. The patient, a lad subject to consti- pation, died four days after signs of strangulation of the intestine. Eeferring probably to this case among others, Mr Lawrence^ observes regarding internal strangulation, " Membranous cords forming adhesions frequently cause strangulation. They may be attached to any part of the cavity, or of its contents. The appendix vermiformis, the Fallopian tube, the omentum, and diverticula of the small intestine, when fixed at their loose ex- tremities to some neighbouring part by such adhesions, may soon cause death in this way. I have seen several examples of such occurrences." Also Rokitanski mentions in his ]\Ianual of Patho- logical Anatomy, among the causes of internal strangulation, " an intestinal deverticulura {verum), which is directly or indirectly, 1 Treatise on Ruptures. London, 1838.ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 163 by means of an obsolete vascular cord, attached to a certain por- tion of the peritoneum ;" but he does not refer to any case. A more dangerous condition than such a ring lying loose and open among the coils of the small intestine could scarcely occur ; yet, unless we adopt the improbable view that the ligamentous cords passing from the extremity of the diverticula were of the nature of elongated morbid adhesions, and therefore compara- tively recent, we see the patients had attained nearly the adult state before the accident of the fatal passage of the intestine though the opening had actually occurred. The only natural ring or opening in the abdominal cavity is the foramen or canal of Winslow, and it has happened that a coil of intestine has passed through this opening, and become strangulated. Mr Lawrence refers to M. Jobert as an authority for this occurrence, and Rokitanski mentions that he " once found a large portion of small intestine strangulated in the fissure of Winslow." We may say it is well that the foramen of Winslow exists above and not below the transverse meso-colon. Before the small intestines can reach the entrance of this passage between the greater and lesser sacs, they would require to be displaced over the transverse colon. It is interesting to observe how the movable or loose intestines are kept together in the lower region of the abdomen. They are encircled by the great bowel, and kept down by the transverse meso-colon and colon, from the latter of which the great omentum hangs down in front of them; the transverse meso-colon lies horizontally above them, and forms M'hat I am in the habit of calling the great floatmg partition of the abdomen, which separates the stomach spleen and liver above, from the coils of small intestine below, and moves up or down according as the hollow viscera below or above are distended or empty. It is evident the foramen of Winslow would be a dan- gerous aperture indeed if the floating coils of small intestine were permitted to ascend to its situation. 2. A diverticulum may pass down and form part or the whole of the contents of a hernia. The only writer who refers to this, so far as I am aware, is Monro, whose attention appears to have164 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. been drawn to this point. He observes/ " The symptoms oc- casioned by such diverticula included within the hernial sac are in some instances somewhat different from those occasioned by stricture made upon a protruded turn of intestine. My grand- father has observed—' that, instead of an entire piece of intestine being thrust out, one side of a gut has been stretched out into an appendix CEeca. When this happens, the ingesta will not be stopped in their passage towards the anus, and the patient will go to stool, even though a strangulation of the hernia should come on.' But when the diverticulum only is contained within a hernial sac, it sometimes happens that a very violent inflamma- tion spreads from the diverticulum to the contiguous intestine, and proves fatal. The unnatural pi'ocess does not constitute an essential part of the intestinal canal, and has been cut off when in the sac of a strangulated hernia. Dr Wardrop did so in a case of this description, and after the operation the patient went to stool, and had a complete recovery." No reference is made to cases as a foundation for the above general remarks. 3. When we consider the position of these diverticula, we would expect them to be very liable to receive foreign bodies, and be the seat of the accumulation of intestinal matters. A glance at the sketches in the woodcut will show that the intes- tinal contents must pass into them, almost as readily as past them into the canal below. When intestinal fluids are making their way actively down the canal, they must fill these diverticula, and they will remain full until, the intestine above having ceased to fill them, they are enabled by their own muscular power to empty themselves again. We would expect, then, that any foreign matters descending in the fluids would be very liable to pass "into a diverticulum. On the other hand, it may be ob- served that they in this respect only resemble the normal caecum, which is, in this sense, a diverticulum from the onward direction of the alimentaiy canal; and into it most foreign bodies and matters must go for a time, as soon as they pass the ileo-colic aperture, yet the lodgment and accumulation of such matters I Op. cit., p. 94.ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 1G5 liere is but a rare occurrence, even although, in the erect and sitting postures, the caput ccecum coli is a depending recess. However, a case of such accumulation within a diverticulum ilei is referred to in the catalogue of the Museum of the College of Sm-geons of Ireland. The preparation is thus described, vol. i. p. 38, "A diverticuluin on the human intestine. This pre- paration was taken from a young woman who died of fever ; it forms a circumscribed bag about the size of a turkey's egg, and opens into the ileum at a point about three feet from the csecum, by a passage sufficiently large to admit the end of the little finger; it is filled with hard brittle matter, apparently the solid residue of fseces stained with bile. The omentum and intestine in the neighbourhood were closely joined to the tumour by ad- hesions, the result of a former inflammatory attack ; this woman had complained for many years before death of occasional very severe pains in the abdomen." 4. In conclusion, I have to add one case in which a diver- ticulum verum ilei was the seat of disease, without any apparent cause. This is the same case as No. 17 in the notes, and fig. 17. I found it in an adult male subject, and, on inquiry, learned that the patient, previously in good health, died after a few hours' illness, with symptoms of ileus or gangrene, but that the bowels had continued to move. The diverticulum was in a state of grangrene or approaching gangrene, healthy at its origin, as was also the intestine itself, but the rest of the diverticulum was gangrenous-looking. There was no strangulation or constriction at any part, nor was any other morbid appearance found. The diverticulum was carefully examined also by eversion, but inside there was no appeaj'ance of ulceration or irregularity, and it con- tained air alone when first examined. The diverticulum was, without any ascertainable cause, simply in a state of gangrene.I I 1ON YARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY; CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW OF A MANUAL OF ANATOMY-^ [From the Edinbubgh Medical and Sukgical Journal, April 1854.] Since the first edition of this treatise was published, in 1838, several text-books on anatomy have appeared, and become the favourites with the student. As systematic works, we have had the translation of M. Cruveilhier's anatomy, and the new edition of Quain's anatomy, by Mr R. Quain and Dr Sharpey, both of them complete and authoritative works; and, as less comprehen- sive works, the Manual of Anatomy, by Dr Knox, besides our author's well-known systematic manual, entitled " the Anato- mist's Vade Mecum." As dissecting-room guides, treating ana- tomy regionally, and describing the parts as they lie in relation to each other, we have had the work of Mr Ellis, and also that of Mr Holden, both excellent guides in the dissecting-room; and, besides, we have the new and enlarged edition of the long famous Dublin Dissector, in which there is, to some extent, a combination of these two methods, by the introduction of dis- sections along with the muscles. 11 have reproduced this Review here, with the permission of the Editor of the Journal in which it appeared, as it contains my views and opinions on several points in anatomy. Although the work reviewed deserved, perhaps, a more severe condem- nation at the hands of a teacher of anatomy, I would not have retained the critical remarks here if they could have been separated from the others. 2 The Dissector's Manual of Practical and Surgical Anatomy. By Erasmus Wilson, F.K.S. Second edition, 8vo, pp, 626. London, 1863.ON VAEIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY 168 We feel somewhat at a loss to whicli of these classes to refer tlie work now before us. In the preface we are told the work is devoted to display by demonstration, " the component structures in their relation to each other, and their complicity in the injuries and surgical operations to which the body may be subjected," whilst the systematic anatomy is " treated of in my other anatomical work, the Anatomist's Vade Mecum." In accordance with this, the work is divided into chapters, embracing different regions of the body,—as Inferior Extremity—Superior Extremity—Thorax —Back—Head and Neck, etc.; and we hoped, on seeing this arrangement, that the work was intended truly to supply the deficiencies of the author's Vade Mecum as a trustworthy guide to the student of anatomy ; but have been much disappointed to fiind that this work does not treat essentially of regional, or at least of relative, anatomy, or " of the component structures in their relation to each other," but is arranged in a.manner pecu- liar to itself, and not so as to be incompatible with the greater past being a reprint from the author's Vade Mecum,—the 1845 edition of which we happened to compare with it. The description of each region commences with some general remarks on the parts to be found in it, and on theii- surgical in- terest ; but from this fair beginning, the description soon breaks down into systematic anatomy ; first of the muscles, and then of the vessels and nerves, each of these being usually described not only separate from the others, but without special reference to them. There may be exceptions to this general statement, but we are correct in saying of the extremities and head and neck, where relative anatomy should be more especially studied, that the above remark regarding the arrangement is correct. For instance, in the region of the palm of the hand, we find, after the fascia, first the muscles systematically described, down even to the interossei, then the arteries, and then the nerves, whilst no description is given here of the long flexor tendons, either in the palm or within theii- fibro-synovial canals along the fingers. Of all parts of the body the neck is that which separate syste- matic descriptions fail to convey a correct knowledge of, and where the relative anatomist is most at home, with his various169 CONSIDERED IN A BEVIEW. triandes and their contents, one following the other. ^ But we find our author, after describing the pktysma and fascia, gmng first a separate description of the muscles down even to those ot the tongue, without regard to the nerves and arteries, winch follow, also systematically, in separate sections, whilst the relative anatomy in each triangle is given, if at all, in such a way that the parts are rather mentioned as if to be committed to memory than described so as to add to the student's knowledge. This we need hardly say is not relative anatomy. We admit that, in describing a region, there must or should be more or less systematic notice of the muscles, vessels, and nerves m it; but this is very different from giving an altogether separate and systematic description of each, and is compatible with a full ac- count of the relative anatomy of each region, and a particular account of the relations of each muscle, vessel, and nerve, to other muscles, vessels, and nerves,—such as may be found in the works of Ellis and Holden, already referred to. We have said that the greater part of the work before us ap- pears to be a reprint of the author's Vade Mecum. The same paragraphs are used, sometimes in the same, and sometimes m a different order. The description of the muscles especially is the same, only, singularly enough, omitting here the paragraphs on the relations. The arteries and nerves are occasionally altered, and more fuHy described. In the description of the viscera of the thorax and abdomen, the brain and spinal cord, the organs of the senses, and the ligaments, there is very little alteration. It is right, however, to mention, that it is the first edition of this treatise, which appears to contain the original descriptions, which have been subsequently transferred to the author's systematic treatise, and this may explain why the three books so closely re- semble each other. Perhaps our author may reckon it an advantage that the same descriptions should be given in both of his text-books, as the same muscles, vessels, and nerves form the theme of both; but, being so, one of two conclusions are evident,—either that the descriptions which are appropriate in a short systematic manual, cannot be so in a manual professing relative anatomy, or, if theyON VAKIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY 170 are so, that the appearance of the second book is altogether un- called for. But, as it may not be fair to condemn a book merely because the title is inappropriate, or the plan which the author has set for himself may not meet our approval, we shall now proceed to notice how the author has acquitted himself in the execution of his plan. On this score there should be little room for comment. In a student's manual, treating of matters of fact, wdiich have long been familiarly known, and compiled by one who, even be- fore writing the first edition, has had the " experience of seven years, engaged in the active duties of the practical teacher in the dissecting-room," the descriptions could scarcely fail to be correct, and suited to meet the difficulties which the student feels in his progress. Taken by themselves, many of the descriptions and hints for assisting the memory are good enough; and most of the illustrations are useful, well designed, and certainly almost all of them well executed by the artist; so that, indeed, the book might be recommended to the student as a good and useful one, were it not that we already possess several which are much superior to it, both in plan and execution. But, while we think the descriptions well executed according to the plan of the work, we at the same time can by no means give to them our unquahfied approval. There are not a few errors in point of anatomical fact there is frequently a want of precision, and not a few omissions, unpardonable in any text- book, but more especially in one professing to treat of sui-gical anatomy. We shall now notice a few of these, in the order in which we have happened to meet with them, and make such comments as may serve to fui-nish some information, as well as to point out the deficiencies of this treatise. INTEEIOB ExTREMiTT.-On page 8 there is a diagram of the thigh, of which we observe first, that the saphenous opening is placed too far inwards, as, when it is dissected, the outer edge of the opening corresponds usually to either the middle or the inner edge of the femoral arteiy; and secondly, that the apex otCONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. 171 Scarpa's tnangle is placed on the inside of the thigh nearly half way down to the patella, instead of at four inches below Pou- part's ligament, and just over the femoral artery. It is the upper, not the lower, border of the adductor longus that we have always been accustomed to consider as forming the internal boundary of the femoral triangle proper, just as we take the upper and not the lower border of the sartorius for the outer boundary. Fascia of Scarpa.—The true or deep layer of the superficial fascia of the groin is not correctly described. It is described as a deep portion of the superficial fascia, separated fi'om the other at the groin by the glands and superficial vessels, adhering to Poupart's ligament, passing down and becoming lost on the fascia lata, and also covering in the saphenous opening. Now, this fascia (which we shall call Scarpa's) is an important one, simple in its arrangement, and easily displayed if intelligently dissected.^ * * * * Important muscles and tendons are described without any re- ference to their surgical anatomy. Thus, there is no mention of the mode of effecting complete relaxation of the rectus femoris, as in the treatment of fractured patella,—that the hip must be somewhat flexed, in addition to extending the knee;—the ana- tomy of the tendo Achillis is meagerly described, and there is no mention of the operation of division of the tendon, or of the necessity of flexing the knee as well as extending the ankle, in order to relax the gastrocnemius completely, as in the treatment of the accident of rupture of the tendon; nor is any allusion made to operations on any of the tendons at the ankle; all points of importance according to our understanding of "surgical ana- tomy." Superior Extremity.—In connection with the axillary and brachial arteries, we find no allusion to their varieties, or even to the fact that there is often a high origin of one of the ai'teries of the forearm, although this occurs as often as in one in every five subjects. Nor can we appreciate the author's objections to the 1 To save repetition, I here omit the farther remarks on this subject, and refer to my paper on the fascia of Scarpa, No. XVI.172 ON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY operation of tying the third portion of the axillary artery, which may be done with ease and safety, where it lies in front of the conjoined tendon. Another blameable omission is, the absence, in the description of the hand, of all allusion to the thecce, or fibro-osseous canals, with their synovial linings, for the flexor tendons. The tendons are briefly noticed with the muscles of the forearm, but without any allusion to the thec« or to the synovial lining and nutrient vinculae within the canals; and with the ligaments of the hand, there is but a short notice of them, without any reference to their surgical anatomy. It is surely within the province of surgical anatomy to point out that these canals shut in the tendons along the fingers; that the incision for the relief of tension, or evacua- tion of matter, in whitlow, must be deep enough to lay this canal more or less open, without which the incision will be of no use; that an incision made longitudinally, and in the centre, will effect this purpose, and avoid the blood-vessels and nerves, whilst one made across, or obliquely, would divide the vessels and nerves, and, if it went deep enough, the tendons also, besides in- sufficiently opening the canal. If anatomists do not point out the reason for it, the student is not unlikely afterwards to forget the sm-gical direction as to incision here, for want of the free practice of which so many fingers are lostj or remain stiff" after the loss of the flexor tendons. Errors are made in the description of the passage of the ten- dons beneath the posterior annular ligament of the wrist. As our Edinburgh students know very well, this ligament is like a bridge with six unequal arches, each, without any variation, transmit- ting its tendon or tendons, with their synovial linings; and they could tell our author, as well as we can, that the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and extensor indicis lie in the same groove and canal, not in separate ones; and that the extensor minimi digiti Hes, not in a groove on the ulna with the extensor carpi ulnaris, but in a canal of its own, without contact with either bone. In the description of the thorax, we happened to observe that no notice is taken of the dilatation of the last part of the great173 CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. coronaiy vein into a muscular sinus, as was particularly described more than twelve years ago by John Keid. At the beginning of this sinus, some distance down the vein, we have found one or two valves, as described by Eeid, as well as by several of the older authors ; notwithstanding which, the remark has crept mto several text-books, that the veins of the heart are destitute of valves. Valves in the Internal Jugular and Subclavian Veins.— We may here also remark that we have always found a pair of valves, apparently unknown to most anatomists, at or near the lower orifice of the internal jugular vein, and also in the subcla- vian vein. This does not accord with the common statement that there are no valves in the veins of the head and neck, except in the external jugular vein; or again, that " the subclavian vein is the continuation of the axillary, but unlike it, has no valves." —(Quain's Anatomy, new edition). But our author does not mention that they exist even in the external jugular. The valves of the internal jugular vein, we have always found to occur close above its termination in the innominate, or from half an inch to an inch above its lower orifice. They are two in number, either transverse or oblique, and one of them is apt to be divided in slitting open the vein to search for them. We have found valves also in the trunk of the subclavian vein, near to its termination in the innominate, and are not sure but that, in the instances in which we met with one only, the other had been destroyed in slitting the vein. We have long been in the habit of pointing out these valves at the root of the neck, and find that they were known to former anatomists, as to Sir Charles Bell, who has indicated their existence by the swellings he has figured on the veins in this situation. The point comes to be one of practical interest. Can the distension of the right side of the heart and neighbouring great veins in asphyxia be relieved backwards by an opening in the external jugular vein ? This point had attracted the notice of Dr John Reid, who has shown in his paper, " On the effects of venesection in renewing and increasing the heart's action under certain circumstances," that the heart's action may be renewed in asphyxiated animals, by an opening made in theON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY 174 external jiigular vein. That there are valves in these veins there is no doubt, but they do not appear usually to resist injections, and would, therefore, probably allow of a return of the blood, especially in the then distended state of all these veins. The question is one deserving of further investigation on the liuman subject, and it would be interesting to institute a series of expe- riments to ascertain whether water thrown up, for instance, by the abdominal veins, would freely escape by a wound in the ex- ternal jugular. Neck.—Here we find a passage indicating a startling boldness in practice, upon the fascia of the neck, p. 231. " When, how- ever, tumours form beneath it, as bronchocele, enlargements of the lymphatic glands, aneurism, etc., the pressure which it then exerts may be fatal to the patient, from compression of the trachea, larynx, and nerves, unless (the italics are our own) the tension be relieved by incision." The list of primary branches of the external carotid artery is made up to ten, by the addition of sterno-mastoid and parotidean branches. Eight we hold to be quite enough for the learner to master, besides being the correct number of regular primary branches. The sterno-mastoid occasionally no doubt receives a separate branch from the external carotid, but is usually supplied chiefly by two twigs, one from the superior thyroid, which crosses the carotid sheath to reach it, and a larger one from the occipital artery. The parotid gland, again, is supplied by several twigs, coming both from the external carotid and its temporal branch. We observe the omission of all reference to varieties of tlie subclavian artery, or its branches, except in the statement that " when a fifth artery exists, it arises from the third portion, and is the supra-scapular." Now, all anatomists who have observed these arteries in the dissecting-room, or those who have studied Mr R. Quain's work on the arteries {London, 1844) know that it is very common to find a large branch coming from the third portion of the subclavian artery, as often probably as once in every three subjects, very near where a ligature would have been placed on the artery; and that this branch is seldom the supra- scapular, but is an artery which thereafter dijDS backwards,175 CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. USU ._ally between the two trunks of the plexus, to reach the upper angle of the scapula under cover of its levator muscle, and is there- fore, not the supra-scapular, but the posterior-scapular artery. Brain.—The corpus callosum is stated to be four inches in length. It may be so in a brain soft and flattened out on a table; but^the brain it will be granted is not longer than the cavity in which it lies, and at most the seven inches thus given are thus distributed;—corpus callosum, three inches; from corpus callosum to front of brain, an inch and a half; and from corpus callosum to posterior end of brain, two inches and a half The position of the corpus callosum bears an interesting relation to its relative thickness at the middle, and at the anterior and posterior extre- mities. Such points are easily and naturally settled by the ap- plication of a foot-rule, which, in a small form, the anatomist will find a very useful instrument. The foramen of Monro is described as " transmitting" the plexus choroides, and the veins of the corpus striatum, pp. 317 and 321. Now, the foramen of Monro does not transmit any vessels, or anything at all but serum, being merely an open pas- sage between the lateral and third ventricles, and formed simply by perforation or continuity of the lining serous membrane. It is not sufficiently expi'essed in descriptions of the brain, that the foramen of Monro, is not, as the communication between the third and fourth ventricles is, a hole or passage in the nervous substance, but in the lining serous membrane only. Were it not for the reflection or continuation of the internal arachnoid, from the upper surface of the fornix outwards across the rest of the floor of the lateral ventricle, there would be a foramen or fissure of Monro all the way back beneath the edge of the fornix, and the lateral and third ventricles would form one cavity, by continuity both above and below the choroid plexus and velum interpositum ; but the lining serous membrane prevents this, and only where the cms of the fornix bends round the shoulder of the thalamus is it perforated, so as to be continuous with the lining membrane of the third ventricle below. It was, we presume, the want of appreciation of these points regarding the nature of this hole, formerly so interesting to theON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY 176 Edinburgh student, which foi- some time after it was brought into notice by Monro secundus, led to a discussion among ana- tomists as to whether the hole really existed ; the point lying in this, that it is not a hole in the nervous substance or brain pro- per, but only in the lining serous membrane, as is still better seen in cases of chronic collection of serum in the ventricles, when we have seen it large enough to admit the point of the finger. As the foramen of Winslow does not transmit the vena porta?, but is a serous passage between the lesser and greater sacs, and is separated from the vein by a serous layer, so is the foramen of Monro an opening between the serous cavities of the third and lateral ventricles, and the plexus choroides does not pass through it, but bounds it behind, with a delicate serous layer between. It may be here observed that, although this foramen is named after Monro, it appears to have been well known to previous anatomists. Indeed, it is not easy to understand how it could have been overlooked. In the dissection of the base of the brain, when the grey matter in the floor of the third ventricle has given way so as to expose the ventricle, the two openings are so plainly visible behind the pillars of the fornix, that they could not have escaped the notice of the many accurate anatomists who described the brain before the time of Monro. The claims of that anato- mist to the discovery, now just a century ago, of these com- municating apertures, may be found in his work on the Brain, Eye, and Ear (1797) ; and the facts showing their existence to have been well known to previous anatomists, may be found in Sir Charles Bell's separate work on the anatomy of the brain, with engravings (1802), in which it is remarked—" the only dif- ference is that Winslow says it is a passage betwixt the third and the two lateral ventricles, while Dr Monro says it is a passage betwixt the two lateral ventricles and the third." The division of the middle portion or lobe of the cerebellum into several parts, each with a distinct name, is adopted; the superior into three parts, or at least three names, and the inferior into four, the names of which we abstain from repeating as a step towards their suppression. We cannot see any good pur- pose to be served by this subdivision, the greater part of which.CONSIDERED IN A EE VIEW. 177 besides, is unnatural, or at least not very apparent. We wish anatomists would agree to abandon tbe use of these terms, as sei-ving only to dishearten the student in his efforts to master tbe already overburdened nomenclature in connection with the brain. The decussation of the anterior pyramids of the medulla oblon- gata is mentioned merely as a free communication of the pyra- mids across the fissure by a decussation of their fibres. No mention is made of the interesting fact, as fully described by John Reid twelve years ago, that each pyramid, in chiefly decussating, passes, not merely across, but also backwards, so as to be con- tinued into the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord. There is a diagram, fig. 48, of a transverse section of the spinal marrow, in which the grey matter is very erroneously figured like two new moons joined across by a very broad grey commis- sure. The commissure should be narrow, and the anterior end of the crescent large and rounded, compared with the posterior. However correct the text may be, the student will still rather take his impression from the diagram. Perineum.—The fascia covering the levator ani is not noticed in the description of the ischio-rectal fossa. Now this fascia is of much importance in connection with the fossa. By its union with the obturator fascia it closes the fossa above, and, by lining the levator ani, it effectually prevents, in abscess in the fossa, the passage of matter into the rectum, at least earlier than close above the sphincter, an inch or little more above the anus, where the internal opening in complete fistula may be constantly found. When in the neighbourhood of the obturator internus, we are reminded to remark, that if our author, in the next dissection he sees of the deep gluteal region, will divide the tendon of that muscle and lift it inwards, he will see behind it not only the grooved cartilage and synovial membrane covering the lesser notch, but an appearance so striking that we are sure he will give it a prominent notice in future editions. Of lithotomy we read, that " the proportional distance between the tuberosity of the ischium and anus is the Scylla and Charyb- dis of the operation; for approaching nearer the former would endanger the internal pudic artery; and the latter the rectum," MON VARIOUS POIKTS IN ANATOMY 178 etc. This remark regarding the former danger may be a common one, but still we think the pudic artery so safe, in an operation with an oi'dinary knife making its way towards the bladder, that the incision might come close to either the tuberosity or ramus of the ischium, or even shave off a slice of the bone, without touching the artery. Even when the ischio-rectal space and the anterior part of the perineum are deeply dissected, there is con- siderable difficulty in bringing the trunk of the artery into view : it lies bound down by the obtui'ator fascia, and concealed above or within the edge of the tuberosity and ramus; so that to suc- ceed in wounding it in the operation would require a consider- able amount of design and dexterity with any ordinary lithotomy instrument. There is no allusion to the supposed danger of dividing the reflection of the pelvic fascia on the side of the prostate, so as to endanger infiltration of urine below the peritoneum ; and indeed the relations of the prostate and the formation of its sheath are but meagerly described. We have heard a great deal said about the danger of dividing this reflection of the fascia, but to us it appears the danger is an imaginaiy one, if the lateral operation be performed according to the common directions. The line of the reflection crosses the prostate obliquely, downwards and backwards, leaving in front about three-fourths, and behind two-thirds of the prostate, below this line. If, when the section of the prostate was being made, the knife was directed upwards and outwards, and carried at the same time deeply back through and beyond the neck of the bladder, the reflection of the fascia might be divided; but if the knife cuts even horizontally, or, as is usually directed, downwards and outwards, the reflection of the fascia, though, like the pudic artery, not very far away, is still perfectly safe. Anatomy of Fcetus.—In the description of the foetal vessels and heart, there is no direct statement of the fact that the point where the ductus arteriosus joins the arch of the aorta is invari- ably beyond the origin of the left subclavian, a fundamental point in connection with the foetal circulation; nor is it mentioned with the anatomy of the thorax, that the lefl recurrent nerve hooksCONSIDERED IN A EEVIEW. 179 round the arch to the left side of the remains of the ductus arteriosus, an important point in connection with the early de- velopment of the ai'teries and nerves. Nor is the valve of the foramen ovale sufficiently described, as lying to the left side of the apertm-e, serving to prevent the blood from passing from left to right during foetal life, as well as to close up the aperture after birth, by becoming glued to the edges of the hole on its left or posterior aspect. Of the foetal liver we read, "the left lobe is as large as the right." This is a common remark, but an erroneous one, at least as applied to the foetus near or at the full time. The left lobe is considerably, apparently neariy a half, smaller than the right; though of course proportionally to the right it is larger than in the adult, which we presume is the truth intended to be con- veyed by the erroneous statements such as the above. Nor is the distribution of the umbilical vein correctly given by our author. It is said to give branches—" 1, two or three which are distributed to the left lobe; 2, a single branch, which communicates with the portal vein in the tranverse fissure, and supplies the right lobe; and, 3, a large branch, the ductus venosus, which passes directly backwards, and joins the inferior cava"—p. 557. Now we have always found the arrangement to be this. It gives three or four branches on each side, those to the left lobe being larger than those to the right; some of these, or others, may be con- cealed, coming off between the vein and the fissure; and, having reached tlie transverse fissure, it breaks up into three branches, one to the left lobe first; one twice as large to the right lobe, which, after a coiu'se of half an inch, is joined by the vena portas; and a third. In the middle, the ductus venosus, not larger than the branch to the left lobe, which, after a course of three-fourths of an inch, enters, not the vena cava, but the left hepatic vein, about a quarter of an inch before the latter ends in the vena cava. The ductus venosus is not a " large branch," but a small one ; it cannot carry above a sixth or an eighth part of the blood of the umbilical vein straight on. Far too much importance is usually given to it in descriptions of the foetal circulation, as if it were of equal importance with the ductus arteriosus and foramen ovale.ON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY 180 In the foetal horse it is even altogether absent.'' In man it forms an escape or direct passage to near the heart for but a small part of the umbilical blood; the great part must first traverse the liver where some important change, probably of the nature of purifi- cation, is no doubt efi'ected on it by this organ, so large in the foetus although it is not yet engaged in the secretion of bile. Of the membrana pupillaris of the foetal eye, our author says "sometimes it remains permanently, and produces blindness." In the next edition this passage may stand thus—" It has been supposed that the membrana pupillaris sometimes remains per- manent, and produces blindness; but this is an error, as no authentic cases are on record, to prove that it has occurred as yet." Orbit and Eye.—On pp. 219 and 370 we have the old and erroneous description of the tendons of the recti muscles forming an expansion at their insertion; thus—" The insertion of the four recti muscles into the globe of the eye forms a tendinous expan- ion, which is continued as far as the margin of the cornea, and is called the tunica albuginea." How this mode of description has come to be so generally adopted in text books on anatomy we are at a loss to understand, as it is so easily seen to be erroneous and entirely without founda- tion. This siTpposed coat was the tunica tendinea, or timica albuginea of the old anatomists, the discoveiy claimed by Colum- bus, but before "known" to Galen. As long ago shown by Albinus and Zinn, not only is there no such membrane, but absolutely no arrangement in the least approaching to the forma- tion of such a membrane. The error may have arisen from the use of the term " tmiica albuginea," by which some may mean simply the white appearance of the sclerotica, while others fancied the supposed tendinous expansion of the ancients to be referred to in the use of that term. The term "tunica albuginea" ought therefore, to be altogether abandoned. But this source of con- fusion is scarcely an apology for the error of some modern anato- mists in describing a tendinous expansion to be formed by the 11 make this statement on the authority of Mr Barlow, the accomplished anatomist of the Edinburgh Veterinary School.CONSIDERED IN A EEVIEAV. 181 recti tendons, and " continued as far as the margin of the cornea." A very sliglit examination will satisfy any one that these tendons are inserted abruptly into the sclerotica, having become only a very little broader, but far from anything like approaching each other. Their edjies are as neat and clean cut as those of the muscles which end in them; their abrupt termination in the sclerotica is a Httle curved with the convexity towards the cornea, and about three lines ft-om it; and they dip in and are soon lost by becoming blended with the fibres of the sclerotica; but neither in it, nor over it, is there anything like a membrane formed by the expansion or union of the recti tendons. In propagating this error in modern times, our author, though by no means singular in this respect, must be held to have had a principal share. We have not only the description, but, on page 371, a diagram re- presenting the tendons joining each other, with beautifully curved edges, and forming a sheath over the front of the sclerotica; and, contrasting this with the statement in the preface to the first edi- tion, that the descriptions " have not been copied from the works of his predecessors, but have been penned from the great book of nature," we trust we have convinced our author of his fallibility, and that he shares in common with many of us the tendency to see things as others have described them, rather than as they really exist. We have equal fault to find with our axithor's statements re- garding the action of the oblique muscles, besides that he places the insertion of the superior too far back in saying that it is in- serted near the entrance of the optic nerve. But, as the action of the oblique muscles may be regarded by many as debatable ground, we shall remark only, that, whatever their actions may be, our author can give no pi'oof that they are such as he de- scribes, and that he seems to be quite unacquainted with all that has of late years been written in Dublin and in Edinburgh on this subject, all tending to establish the view of John Hunter and others, that they are provided for the purpose of rotating the eye on its antero-posterior axis. We observe a diagi-am of the nerves of the orbit (fig. 27), in which the roots of the fifth nerve are traced to before and behind182 ON VAEIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY the olivary body, as if tliis were an admitted point in anatomy, —in which the third nerve is the same size as the sixth, instead of being four times larger,—and in which the long root of the ciliary ganglion is an eighth of an inch, instead of half an inch, in length, and the little ganglion itself is actually as large as the first division of the fifth pair. The structure of the cornea is more fully described than in the first edition, but we find no mention of the anterior elastic lamina, discovered and described by Mr Bowman several years ago. We are informed that " the opacity of the cornea, produced by pres- sure on the globe, results from infiltration of fluid into the cellular tissue connecting its layers. This appearance cannot be pi-oduced in a sound living eye, although a small quantity of serous fluid (liquor cornese) is said to occupy the areolse of the cellular tissue." Can our author furnish any proof of the correctness of either of these three statements ? In connection with the choroid, we have a diagram (fig. 52) of the venas vorticosse, unlike any vense vorticosas we have ever seen; and we read—"in animals, the pigmentum nigrum, on the posterior wall of the eye-ball, is replaced by a layer of con- siderable extent, and of metallic brilliancy, called the tapetum." On the contrary, it will be seen, if the choroid be seized with the forceps near the tapetum, and pulled inwards, that the pigment is not here replaced, or wanting, but exists plentifully behind the tapetum, which is merely a brilliant arrangement of fibres on its anterior or internal surface. The ciliary ligament is figured like a belt drawn round the eye, with an abrupt posterior edge; and nothing is said about the deeper and posterior part of it being muscular, as several observers have of late years pointed out; although we may observe, in passing, that they are wrong in attributing the view of its mus- cularity to Porterfield, who scarcely mentions the ciliary liga- ment, but describes the ciliary processes or body under this name, and strongly advocates the view that this part is muscular in its nature. Of Jacob's membrane we read, " Dr Jacob considers it to be a serous membrane." Now, this implies the idea of a double re-183 CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. fleeted serous membrane, as Mr Dalrymple believed it to be when, in 1834, he wrote his book on the anatomy of the eye; but Dr Jacob, although originally he may have used the term serous, is careful to explain, writing in 1839, that it is not a serous membrane, part of his words being—" I have above stated my reasons for considering it a single layer, and not a double serous membrane ;" and as the nature or minute structure of the membrane is now well known, and bears out Dr Jacob's descrip- tion, it is hardly fair to assign to him, a living man in 1853, the antiquated opinion of another, which he had written to correct fifteen years before. The retina is described, after Treviranus, as presenting minute papillae on its internal surface, and oui' author would therefore seem to be unacquainted with the microscopical researches of Hannover and Bowman. The capsule of the lens is mentioned without any reference to the important fact that it is several times thicker in front than behind; and the old error, that it " contains a small quantity of fluid, called liquor Morgagni,'"_ is reproduced, although followed by the remark that " Dr Jacob is of opinion that the lens is con- nected to its capsule by means of cellular tissue, and that the liquor Morgagni is the result of cadaveric change," p. 378. Now Dr Jacob not only expressed his belief, but clearly demonstrated the fact, that there is a strong adhesion between the lens and its capsule, that there is no fluid here in a recent eye, and that it is incorrect to attribute to Morgagni the deliberate belief that there is fluid here in the living healthy eye. That the capsule of the lens should allow a fluid to pass in after death, but exclude it during life, is not more wonderful than that the same capsule should so easily become opaque during life, but resist all means to make it so after death; or that the cornea should not absorb and swell out with the aqueous humour during life, as with water after death; the difterence lying in the possession or loss of vita- lity ; but whatever the explanation may be of the formation of the fluid which may always be seen to escape on puncturing the capsule of an eye not recent, especially if it has lain a day in water, it does not alter the fact, which we had thought every184 ON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY anatomist now knew, that in the recent eye tliere is absolutely none; and the single layer of cells by which the union between the capsule and the soft exterior of the lens is effected our author will find described and figured in Mr Bowman's lectures on the eye, published four years ago. In fig. 54 the Ims is drawn like that of a very old person, the axis or thickness little more than a third of the diameter or breadth. It is very common to find the lens figured out of all proportion to the eye, either too large or too small, too convex or too flat; but the proportions are easily struck if these points be recollected—that the breadth or width of the lens is one-third of the axis or diameter of the eye, and measures one-third of an inch, whilst the depth or thickness of the adult lens in the middle is one-sixth of an inch, that is, half the breadth. We read that the free border of the ciliary processes " rests against the circumference of the lens," but in the diagram they are made to overlap in front of the rim so far, that were the pupil fully dilated they would be clearly seen from without in the living eye. The exact relation of the tips of the ciliary processes to the lens is a point of much interest. The above description accords rather with the view of Galen than that of modern anatomists, who are aware that the tips of the processes are free, not involved behind in the plaitings of the hyaloid membrane, but floating loose in the posterior chamber; not touching the rim of the lens, but lying a little in front of it; but how far they actually overlap in front of the rim is not quite certain. The fact that they are not visible when the pupil is fully dilated might lead to the supposition that they were retracted along with the iris, from their connection Avith it, or from the action also of the ciliary muscle; but that they are not so altered we have found, on examining the eyes in the horse within half an hour, and the cat within a few minutes, after death, one eye having been previously brought fully under the influence of atro- pine, when no diflerence could be detected between the two eyes in the position of the tips' ciliary processes. Besides, the pupil of the human eye dilates only suflaciently far to equal the size of an average lens.CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. 185 Of the chambers of the aqueous humour we read—" the two chambers are Kneel by a thin layer, the secreting membrane of the aqueous humour," p. 378. How long will this error be continued in descriptions of the eye? No one ever saw or traced such a membrane, and we submit that, in a question of anatomy such as this, what has never been seen, either with the naked eye or microscope, does not exist, or must be held not to exist. The membrane of Descemet or Demom's, so well described by Dr Jacob as the elastic cornea, is not, as some suppose, what is meant by the membrane of the aqueous humoxir, as it is a layer of the cornea, not reaching farther than into the ciliai'y ligament and origin of the iris. The single, layer of cells on the surface of the cornea, in contact with the aqueous humour, extends no farther; if it did, the cells would be seen elsewhere as well as on the cornea, but there are no cells on the front of the iris, or on the capsule of the lens, nor on the back of the iris distinct from those hold- ing the pigment of the uvea. The foundation for the view that thei*e is a lining membrane to these chambei's, is the supposition or idea that there must be one to secrete and contain the fluid, a serous membrane being, on the ground of analog}', supposed to be required. Analogy, we may remark, is at best not a proof or ground for inference, but merely suggestive of research to deter- mine the fact. But we may ask, in what does the supposed analogy consist? Are there any serous membranes in the body, with the cavities distended with or containing a fluid? The lialitus or steam of the older anatomists is now met with in a condensed condition only, as a moisture on the opposing sur- faces of the serous membranes, and more tlian this would render them less fitted for their purpose. The only serous cavity natu- rally holding any serous fluid, and that but in small quantity in health, is the ventricular space, divided into the several com- municating ventricles of the brain. On the other hand, there is only one instance of a considerable collection of serous fluid naturally existing in health, namely that around the spinal mar- row and certain parts at the base of the brain, and there it exists, not in a serous cavity, although there is one near enough to it'186 ON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY but loose in the sub-arachnoid spaces, secreted by the vessels of the pia mater, as the aqueous humour no doubt is by the vessels of the iris, and ciliary processes. The analogy then is rather the other way, agreeing with the fact, that no membrane can be traced lining these chambers. The JoiNTS.—The last chapter embraces the anatomy of the joints, and is all but a literal reprint from the author's systematic manual, and also corresponds closely to the text in the first edition. So far from disputing the propriety of introducing the joints into a manual for the dissecting room and of surgical anatomy, we are of opinion that there is no part of anatomy of greater importance to the surgeon than that of the larger joints, and perhaps there is none more neglected; but we do not think such descriptions as those with which we are here presented can serve any practical or surgical purpose. The author's views regarding the study of the joints may be gathered from the cir- cumstance that the chapter is headed, not of the articulations, but " Of the Ligaments;" and so it is with many, who seem to think that, in connection with the joints, they have only to com- mit to memoiy the names and attachments of the ligaments. Now, the study of the joints should embrace, first, a careful con- sideration of the form and adaptation of the articular surfaces, then the ligaments, then the synovial membrane, with the ex- tent and recesses of its cavity, and lastly, and of great importance, the natural motions of each joint; not merely the names of these motions, but the natui'e and direction and extent of each. In connection with the hip-joint, for instance, it is not enough to mention, as we find here, that rotation is one of its motions, but the kind of motion which rotation is, inwards and outwards, the effect it has in rolling the whole limb, and the method of moving the limb so as to perform it, as in the examination of the limb after an injury, are all points quite as worthy of notice as the fact that there is a capsular or a round ligament. Farther, we conceive the surgical anatomy of the joints to embrace the notice of the osseous prominences outside and near the joint, and the relative position of these in the different motions. AVith such a knowledge of the joints the surgeon can usually see at a glance,CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. 187 when there is no fracture or dislocation, the natural figure of the limb and motions of the joint remaining; and when there is, he readily detects the nature of the injury. We pass this general condemnation on the whole of this chapter, on the ground of its deficiency in practical and surgical bearing, and besides, notice several unpardonable omissions. Thus, in connection with the shoulder-joint, we are left to in- fer only that the long tendon of the biceps lies above the head of the bone. There is no allusion to the fact that it passes over the ball of the humerus, like a belt, serving, when the biceps acts, to keep it from rising up against the acromion pro- cess; or that the tendon lies in a grooved recess in the capsular ligament, the anterior boundary of which is so prominent that some have considered it as analogous to the round ligament at the hip; which, however, it is not truly, even although a probe may sometimes be passed round it, free within the joint, close to its attachment to the lesser tuberosity, and just in front of the commencement of the bicipital groove. There is conse- quently no allusion to the occurrence of dislocation or rupture of this tendon in the joint or groove, of which so many cases have been brought together in Mr Callaway's treatise on the shoulder-joint (Tjondon, 1849), which we would recommend to our author's notice. Of the Up-joint it is enough to say, that not only is there no mention of the strong periosteum, with the raised fibrous bands on the neck of the thigh-bone, which may retain the fractured ends in apposition, as we have seen, but there is not even any direct mention of the pregnant fact that the neck of the thigh- bone lies within the cavity of the joint. We would suggest for insertion in future editions, the general information as to the direction of flexion and extension of the great joints of the extremities, that, in the superior extremity, flexion is forwards and extension backwards at all the joints whilst in the lower extremity, flexion and extension are alternately forwards and backwards, as at the hip, knee, ankle, and toes; from which it follows, that when a muscle crosses two joints in the upper extremity it either flexes or extends both, if in the188 ON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY lower extremity it flexes one and extends the other, except in the cases of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. We would also ventm'e to recommend to all anatomists the omission of such terras as flexors or extensors of the thigh, or flexors or extensors of the leg, and to substitute for them the ex- pressions flexors and extensors of the knee, or of Hie ankle, as the flexors and extensors of the thigh are not the flexors and exten- sors in the thigh; the use of such terms leads to confusion, but no one can mistake what is meant when we speak of the flexors or extensors of any particular joint. In connection with the knee-joint, the synovial pouches at the side of each condyle (into which a loose cartilage may be pushed and fixed by operation) are not mentioned; nor is there any mention of the prolongation of the synovial membrane earned out of the joint by the tendon of the popliteus muscle, the passing of which close to the back of the superior tibio-fibular joint, so readily explains how there can be, as there occasionally is, con- tinuity of the cavity of this joint with that of the knee, a circum- stance, which otherwise it would be difficult to account for. The bursa is described as " jjlaced between the anterior surface of the patella and the fascia lata. It is the latter which is inflamed in housemaid's knee." We have always found this bursa to be placed in the cellular tissue immediately under the skin, and to correspond to the lower part of the patella, that part of it on which we rest in kneeling, and not under the fascia lata. The facility with which swelling takes place in eff'usion into it, and with which, after suppuration, pus makes its way to the surfoce, corresponds to this superficial position of the bursa. We have, at the same time, often noticed a bursa, or apparent bursa, still deeper, and between the prolongation from tlie fascia lata and the fibrous covering of the patella; but never without a free communication with the regular sub-cutaneous bursa; and cross- ing the interior of this bursa, and also of that between the tro- chanter major and the gluteus maximus, may be often seen a series of soft fibrous bands, like cordae tendinese, giving a com- plicated appearance to the bursa. In now concluding our notice of this manual, we trust that189 CONSIDEKED IN A REVIEW. our readers will forgive us for the length of some of the digressions we have been tempted to make, on the ground of the information furnished, and the interest of the points discussed. We also trust that our author will be duly sensible of the obligations he is laid under to us for the corrections and hints we have ventured to bestow; and, for ourselves, we shall not grudge the trouble this has given us, as, besides, it has afforded us the opportunity of warning the student against being misled by a new and at- tractive title to an old inferior book.Figs. 1 and 2. Illustrations of the supra-condyloid process in man. a a. Supra-con- dyloid process, h. Ligament completing the arch. Fig. 3. Anterior extremity of cat, reduced one-half. a. Brachial artery, m n. median nerve. Figs. 4 and 6. Humerus of kitten at birth, without and with the cartilaginous ex- tremities. Fig. (5. The same at fifth week after birth, also showing development of supra- condyloid foramen.xy. ON THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. [From the British and Foreign Medico-Chiburqicai. Keview, 1864.] A CONSIDERABLE number of varieties in the anatomy of the brachial region have fallen under my notice in the dissecting room, and some of these are so rare and interesting that I have thought it worth while to draw up a systematic account of them, and especially to call the attention of anatomists to the occurrence of the supra-condyloid process on the humerus of man. I shall arrange my cases and remarks under three heads— varieties of the muscles — the supra-condyloid process — and varieties of the arteries. I.—VARIETIES OF THE MUSCLES IN RELATION TO THE AXILLARY AND BRACHIAL ARTERIES. 1. The Axillary Artery Crossed by a Muscular Band. It is noticed by several anatomists that, occasionally, a slip of muscle is prolonged from the latissimus dorsi, across the axilla, to join the tendon of the pectoralis major, the coraco-brachialis, or the fascia over the biceps. This variety has occurred in eight out of 105 subjects dissected in my rooms since the first instance was N194 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. noted. Of these eiglit, at ages between 3 and 70, three were males and five females. In seven, it was present on both sides, of equal size in five of these seven, and in two of them broader on the left than on the right side. In one it existed on the right side only, and a few scattered fibres were prolonged from the pectoralis major to join it. These fibres were present on the left side also, but not the slip. This abnormal muscular band usually arises from the upper edge of the latissimus dorsi, about the middle of the posterior fold of the axilla. It is usually, I find, not a direct prolongation from the fibres of the latissimus, but, while the higher fibres may be so, the greater part or whole arises by a tendinous intersection between it and the fleshy fibres of the latissimus, or by a short intervening tendon, which in one instance was an inch in length. The muscular band varied from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch in breadth, in one case it was as thick as the pectoralis minor where this muscle crosses the axillary vessels; and its length varied from three to four inches. It disappears under the ten- don of the pectoi'alis major, and in four of the cases where it was afterwards traced, it formed a tendinous expansion, and became blended with the tendon of the pectoralis major.^ The point of greatest interest in connexion with this variety is the position of the muscle in relation to the axillary artexy, as ^ This corresponds to the normal arrangement in some animals. It is well seen in the cat. As the latissimus dorsi approaches the axillary vessels it divides, the an- terior part, being about a fourth of the entire muscle, passes across or in front of the axillary vessels and nerves, and ends in an expanded tendon, which above joins with the deep part of the pectoral muscle, and below expands as an aponeurosis binding down the flexor radii muscle, which corresponds to tlie biceps of man. The great part of the latissimus crosses behind the vessels and nerves, with the teres major, and ratlier higher up than the anterior portion. Both are fleshy where the vessels and nerves lie between them. The whole mouth of the axilla is closed over by a thin muscular layer, continued upwards to the edge of the pectoral muscle from the edge of the anterior part of the latissimus, and also partly from behind from the pannieulus muscle. The fleshy fibres forming tlie anterior part of the latissimus are continued onwards without any inter- vening tendinous intersection. In the cat this anterior part of the muscle as it crosses over the vessels and nerves is } inch broad. In the lion, it forms a tendon broader than the conjoined tendon of man, though not so thick, the lower edge con- tinued into the aponeurotic expansion over the brachial region, the upper edge rounded and free; and the tendon, having crossed over the vessels and nerves, runs in underneath the pectoral muscle to be inserted into the same ridge on the humerus, having formed at the sums time a large expansion over the flexor radii muscle, which it thus binds down.195 VARIETIES OF THE MUSCLES. it might mislead the sui'geon in the operation of tying this vessel. It crossed always in front of the axillary vessels and nerves, and usually opposite the upper part of the conjoined tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. It occupied this situation in all of the eight instances, except the one in which it was present on one side only, and, in this instance, it crossed as high up as op- posite the tendon of the subscapularis muscle, and an inch higher than the edge of the conjoined tendon. It is usually fleshy where it crosses the vessels, but in one instance was tendinous on its posterior surface at this point. As the ai'tery in the upper part of the third stage of its course, opposite to, or at the lower edge of the subscapularis muscle, gives off large branches, the circumflex and subscapular,—the part to be chosen for operation is where it lies upon the conjoined tendon,^ and therefore a little below where this muscular slip crosses over the vessels. It will, however, be exposed in the operation. In one of the cases, the operation was being practised by one of the pu.pils, and the ligature had been applied below the muscle on one side and above it on the other. In another of the cases I was showing the operation, and the muscle was exposed in the wound and recognised at a short distance above the point where the artery was tied. The fibres of tlais unusual muscle are trans- verse, whilst those of the coraco-brachialis, the only normal muscle which should be seen in the operation, are vertical. 2. Muscle cmcealing the Brachial Artery in the Upper Third of the Arm. This variety occurred in the right arm of a male subject in 1851. The coraco-brachialis muscle is twice the usual size, and sends a muscular layer over the vessels and median nerve. This muscular covering begins at the lower edge of the conjoined, tendon, and reaches down for three inches, near to the insertion 1 I use the term "conjoined" tendon as it is a convenient one in clescribiBg> tlie relative anatomy of the parts. Strictly speaking, there is but a very partial insertion of the Hbres of the teres major into the tendon of the latissimus ; and a little farther on they are altogether separated by a bursa, the tores ending in the internal bicipital ridge, while the latissimus glides over the ridge and bursa and is inserted in the floor of the bicipital groove.iyb THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. of the coraco-brachialis. It is of considerable thickness, passes quite round to the inner side of the vessels, and joins the internal head of the triceps, or a tendinous septum between them. There is thus formed a kind of tunnel, which admits the little finger, and ends below by a distinct tendinous arch, the outer side of which is the ordinary tendon of insertion of the coraco-brachialis. This tunnel incloses the imdivided brachial artery, its venge comites, and the median nerve, in their usual relative position. There is no other variety, except that the posterior circumflex artery arises with the superior profunda, and, as usual, when it so arises, courses up behind the conjoined tendon, to gain its usual position at the neck of the humerus. During the present winter I met with an example of an ap- proach to this variety. The coraco-brachiahs sent a thin mus- cular prolongation inwards over the vessels and nerve, as far as to conceal them partially, but on division of the aponeurosis con- tinued from it, it passed outwards and left the sheath exposed. 3. Brachial Artery concealed in the lower half of the Arm by a Broad Tliird Head to the Biceps Muscle. This variety occurred in 1848 in the right arm of a male sub- ject. The brachial artery is concealed in the lower half of its course by a broad thick muscular layer, extending from the inter- muscular septum to the biceps muscle. The artery, its venae comites, and the median nerve, disappear through a tendinous arch, situated a little above midway between the internal condyle and the lower edge of the tendon of the teres major. This fibrous arch is about an inch in length, extending obliquely downwards and inwards, and is continuous above with the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and below with the intermuscular septum. The unusual muscle arises from this arch, and from the inter- muscular septum, as far down as to within an inch of the inter- nal condyle, being a length of four inches and a half, leaving only a narrow cellular space between it and the pronator teres. The fibres pass downwards and outwards, approaching and accom- panying the inner part of the biceps. About one half of the ;3iuscle ends in the tendon of the biceps, just where that tendon197 VARIETIES OF THE MUSCLES. receives the belly of its muscle, and the other half ends in the semilunar process from the biceps to the fascia of the fore arm. It forms an uninterrupted muscular layer of a thickness between an ordinary sartorius or gracilis muscle, concealing the brachial vessels and median nerve in more than the lower half of their com'se. As it approaches the biceps it becomes narrower, from its obliquity, so that where it joins the biceps it is only two inches in breadth. When the upper part of it is held inwards from the biceps, the upper part of the artery is exposed, but behind its lower half the artery could not be exposed without division of the muscle. The radial artery appears as usual between the ten- don and semilunar process of the biceps. On raising the biceps and looking under it from the outside, this large unusual thii'd head is seen to be double, or split by tlie artery, a portion lying underneath the vessel, besides that already described. This deeper portion corresponds to the upper half of the superficial portion. At its origin from the intermuscular septum and internal margin of the humerus, it is two inches in breadth, but contracts below to three-fourths of an inch, and joins partly the tendon and partly the semilunar process of the biceps. The lower edge of this deep portion seemed to twist round or cross over the artery on its outside, to reach the semi- lunar process in front of it. This deep portion was thicker, though narrower, than the superficial. The fibrous arch protected the vessels and nerve from pressure as they entered on the deep part of their course, but it is not easy to see how below this the artery could escape compression, as it lay close between the two layers of the muscle. We have here then an instance of a large third head to the biceps muscle, consisting of a superficial portion, forming a broad continuous muscle concealing the lower half of the brachial artery, and of a deeper portion, lying at first beneath the artery, and about half the breadth of the other. On the left side of this subject, the biceps had a thu'd head, corresponding to the deep portion of the third head on the right side, and like it, lying behind the artery. There was no other variety on the left side.THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. 198 4. Muscular or Tendinous Slip passing inwards across Brachial Artery to Lower Third of Arm. The three following instances h'ave occurred during the pre- sent winter session:— (1.) Slip from Biceps across Brachial Artery.—This fleshy- slip is three inches in length, \ inch in breadth, and \ inch in thickness, and ends in a broad aponeurotic tendon two inches in length. The muscle separates from the inner edge of the biceps two inches below the lower margin of the teres major. It crosses obliquely over the brachial artery and conceals it for an inch and a half The belly having just crossed to the inside of the artery, the tendon is placed to the inside, as it passes down to end in an aponeurosis over the pronator teres, close above and to the outer side of the internal condyle. The inner edge of the tendon is joined to the intermuscular septum. Between its outer margin and the tendon and semilunar process of the biceps, there is now a triangular space f inch in breadth below, but they appear to have been joined across in front of the artery by a thin portion, although this cannot be determined now. This variety occurred on the left arm of an adult subject, and appears, from the remains of the tendon, to have been present on the other side also. (2.) Muscular and Tendinous Slip crossing over Brachial Artery. '—This variety occurred in the left arm of an adult female sub- ject. The muscle arises fixjm the external bicipital ridge by a long tendon, and again ends in a tendon, which is inserted into the aponeurosis over the pronator teres. The upper tendon arises from the upper part of the bicipital ridge of the humerus close to the great tuberosity, and crosses obliquely behind the long tendon of the biceps in the groove. After a course of 2^ inches it ends in a fleshy belly, which appears on the inside of the arm between the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles; passes down along the inner edge of the former and parallel to the outer side of the artery, which it now crosses obliquely, and, after a course of three inches, ends in a narrow flattened tendon, which is three inches in length before it spreads out over the pronator, | inch below the condyle. The fleshy portion is ^ inch, and the lower199 VARIETIES OF THE MUSCLES. tendon ^\ iiicli in breadth, as they lie in front of the artery. They cross the artery very obliquely so as to lie in front of it for three inches, one inch of the fleshy and two inches of the ten- dinous portion. The artery lies in a groove in the brachialis anticus muscle, from the raised portion on the outer side of which is sent off, over the artery, an aponeurosis to join the tendon of this abnormal muscle, which is quite distinct from the intermus- cular septun. (3.) Tendinous Slip from Pectoralis Major to Internal Condyle, crossing over Brachial Artery.—This variety occurred on the right arm only, in an adult female subject. The pectoralis major gave off its usual expansion to the aponeurosis of the arm. The tendinous slip comes from below this, from the deeper part of the tendon of the pectoral, as a cord or tendon about the size of a common probe. It crosses over the brachial artery obliquely, at and below the insertion of the coraco-brachialis. It now lies behind the basihc vein and internal cutaneous nerve, passes to join the true intei'muscular septum, and is continued with it to the condyle, an inch above which it also joins with the ligament- ous cord behind the septum, from which, above, it is quite dis- tinct. As this long ligamentous arch passes down the arm, its outer or anterior arch is free and rounded, and the posterior edge is continued backwards into the deep fascia of the arm. It lies obliquely over the artery for about an inch just at and a Kttle below the tendon of the coraco-brachialis. In an operation, this shp might mislead from its resemblance to the intermuscular septum. Reftmrhs.—ThQ two cases first related exceed any that I have read of in the extent to which the artery was concealed by a muscular covering. Mr Quain' has met with a case in which the arteiy was covered, for an inch and a half, by a thick mus- cular slip from the biceps to the intermuscular septum (Plate xxxvii. fig. 5). He also mentions another in which a third head to the biceps crossed over, instead of under, the artery; and refers to a preparation in Mr Allan Bums' museum, in which 1 The Anatomy of the Arteriea of the Human Body. London, 1844.THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. 200 slip of muscle passed across the brachial artery, and is said to have impaired the activity of the limb during life. The surgeon should be prepared to meet with these varieties of the muscles. Certainly, the operation of tying the brachial artery in the two cases first related would have been a puzzling one, from the re- semblance of the unusual muscle to the natui-al coraco-brachialis and brachialis anticus. But, seeing that the incisions were well placed, the nature of the difficulty might be recognised, and the pulsation of the covered artery, and the effect of pressure on it, would probably indicate the position in which it would be found on division of the muscle. If there happened to be a high divi- sion, and one of the arteries placed under such a muscle, it could scarcely but be overlooked in the operation. 5. Brachial or Third Head to Biceps Muscle. The occasional occurrence of a third head to the biceps has long been well known to anatomists. Theile^ states that it occurs as often as once in eight or nine subjects. In one case there were two additional heads from the humerus. I have noted this variety in four instances during the present session. (1.) Third head arises as upper and inner part of bracliialis anticus, with the fibres of which it is here quite continuous. It is half an inch broad and six inches long, and ends in the upper and inner part of a broader than usual semilunar process, and in the contiguous part of the tendon of the biceps. Left arm: no third head on right. (2.) Right arm, none on left side. Arises as highest and most internal part of the brachialis anticus, immediately outside inser- tion of coraco-brachialis. Is half an inch in breadth and five inches in length. Inserted, fleshy, into deep surface and inner edge of tendon of biceps at its commencement, and a few fibres run into the semilunar process. (3.) Both arms. Is small and narrow like a flattened lumbri- calis muscle. Arises by a short tendon, as in the preceding cases, and inserted also as in them. 1 Traits de Myologie et d'AngdioIogie. F. G. TheUe. Encyclopedie Anatomique. Paris, 1843.VARIETIES or THE MUSCLES. 201 (4.) Right arm. Left unascertained. Arises separate from the fibres of the brachialis anticus, for two indhes in depth, im- mediately external to insertion of coraco-brachialis, but reaching an inch above this, and also higher up than the brachialis anticus. Is one inch in breadth and six inches in length. Insertion ex- actly as in preceding cases. As the third head in all of these cases passed, as usual, behind the brachial artery, this occurrence does not affect the surgical anatomy of that vessel. 6. Brachial Artery overlapped or covered hy a portion of the Brachialis Anticus Muscle. Mr Quain relates two cases in which he saw the principal of two arterial trunks covered by a thin layer of the brachialis anticus muscle (Plate 37, figs. 3 and 4), and mentions in con- nection, with this that the fibres of the brachialis not unfrequently project at the outer side of the artery, in some cases even ovei-- lapping it. This condition I have repeatedly noticed, so often indeed that I gave up noting the individual cases. It occurs more frequently perhaps in the case of two arteries, when the deeper one has this position, but often enough it is seen with the single and otherwise normal artery. Tt is seen in various degrees. The brachialis presents a raised portion on the outside of the artery, and an aponeurosis, deeper than the common aponeurosis of the arm, is sent inwards from it, over the artery, which is thus closely bound down upon the brachialis, and is as if sunk in a groove in the substance of the muscle. In a farther 6tage*the fleshy fibres overlap the artery from the outside, although not so far but that, on division of the aponeurosis, these overlapping fibres slip outwards off the artery. In one of the cases noted this winter, the artery in both arms of an adult female subject was thus covered for three inches. But what is most commonly seen is a raised portion of the brachialis muscle, projecting on the out- side of the artery, sending a deep aponeurosis inwards over it, and binding the artery down in a kind of groove in the muscle. 7. IIi.gh Origin to Pronator Ter^s Muscle. We not unfrequently meet with the pronator teres muscle202 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OJT THE ARM. arising a little higher than usual above the internal condyle, but without much altering the relative anatomy of the bend of the arm. In the two following instances, however, the muscle arose unusually high, and changed the relative position of the arteries at the bend. 1. On left side pronator teres arises 1\ inch above the con- dyle. An aponeurosis reaches from it to join brachiahs anticus, external to position of artery. There is thus formed a kind of arch or tunnel, under which the principal artery and the median nerve pass, so as to become concealed half an inch above the transverse level of the condyle. Eadial artery rises above middle of arm, and passes over this aponeurosis, but lies imder the apo- neurosis of the arm and semi-lunar process of the biceps. Right side. No high origin to pronator, but a high division of artery, and the two arteries are separated by a deep layer of aponeurosis at the bend of the arm. 2. Right side. All the anatomy on left side normal. Pronator teres arises two inches above condyle, from intermuscular sep- tum. The high portion is almost a separate muscle, being at first separated from the usual pronator by a narrow cellular space. High pronator is soon joined, by aponeurotic fibres, to a raised portion of the brachialis anticus external to the position of the artery. Eadial artery arises in axilla, and is covered by the usual aponeurosis of the arm and the semi-lunar process of the biceps, but the principal artery passes, along with the median nerve, underneath the above mentioned deep aponeurosis and high pronator, by which they are concealed for an inch and a half above the transverse level of the condyle. II.—ON THE OCCURRENCE OF A SUPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS IN MAN. The part so named is a more or less hook-shaped process, which is occasionally developed on the inner surface of the humerus, two inches above the internal condyle. A ligament is continued from it to near the condyle, completing an arch, througli which the median nerve and brachial artery pass, afterTHE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PEOCESS. 203 deviating from their usual course; the whole forming an arrange- ment analogous to that which obtains in many animals, in the passage of the nerve and artery through an opening, the supra- condyloid foramen, in the humerus, in the same situation. A few instances of tliis variety had been recorded previous to 1848, wlien I gave a short account' of several which I had met with in the dissecting-room, and I have now met with the variety so frequently, that I am desirous of noticing it more fully, and of calling the attention of anatomists to it, as a variety which, I be- lieve, will be found to occur not unfrequently, to a more or less marked degree, if this part of the arm be carefully examined. The sketches at the commencement of this paper are taken from two of the numerous specimens of this variety now in my collection. In fig. 2, the bone and process are represented one- fourth the natural size. In fig. 1, the lower end of the humerus is shown half the natural size. The supra-condyloid process is broader and stronger in this specimen. The bone is seen a little on its external and inferior aspect, to show the size of the oval space, completed by the ligament, through which the nerve and vessels passed. Fig. 2, is from case No. 4, and fig. 1, from case No. 8, in the following list. List of Cases of Supra-Condyloid Process, ivith Azotes of the Peculiarities of each. 1. Left side. Process ^ of an inch in length. Adult female. Nothing known of right side. 2. Both sides. Process broad and long—nerve and artery passed round it on both sides. Adult female. 3. Both sides. Process of moderate length. Nerve and artery passed round on both sides. Adult male. 4. Both sides. Process f of an inch long on left side, and very short on right. Nerve and artery passed round on left side; on right side, nerve only, accompanied by small muscular arterial twie. 5. On right side only. Process of moderate length, and well- • Edin. Monthly Journal. Oct. 1848. See No. I. of this volume.THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. 204 marked groove behind it. Nerve and artery pass round process. Left side—groove well marked though process entirely wanting. High division at axilla, both arteries run down inner edge of biceps, radial most external. A small third head to biceps, behind arteries. Female set. 37. 6. Right side only. Process was of good length, but now partly broken off. Median nerve passed round process, but artery did not. Uncertain whether a small branch did not accom- pany nerve. Left side. All anatomy normal. Female set. 4. 7. Eight side only. Process moderate. Median nerve passed round process, accompanied by small muscular artery from inferior profunda. Artery did not deviate—was crossed behind by median nerve—divides an inch above elbow, and ulnar passes superficially, close under aponeurosis of forearm. Left side. No process, but a well-marked groove, and slight roughness just where process arises on other side. High division of artery at lower edge of conjoined tendon. Ar- teries usual in position, separated only by median nerve. Female set. 50. 8. Left side. Nothing known of right. Process | of an inch in length. Nerve and artery pass round it. This specimen is from the case related by Dr Knox,^ and came into my possession with his Museum of Human Anatomy. Middle- aged male. 9. Left humerus in my collection, without any history. Eough ridge ^ inch in length, where process arises in other speci- mens, and a distinct groove behind it. The following are specimens in other museums or from cases described by others. 10. Both sides. Process well formed. Preparation of child, showing arteries, in Barclay collection in Museum of Edin- burgh College of Surgeons. Eiffht side. Artery passes round process. Left. Eadial arises above middle of arm and keeps by edge of biceps— > Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1841.205 THE SUPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS. chief trunk deviates and passes round process. Nerves not preserved. 11. Leftside. Nothing known of right. Young child. 12. Left side. Nothing known of right. Nearly full grown arm. This, and the last, also in Dr Barclay's collection. In both, process is well developed,,and in both there is the same arrangement of arteries as on left side of No. 10. 13. Eight side only. Skeleton, also in College Museum. Fe- male, and probably £et. about 30. Process moderate on right humerus, with well marked groove behind it. Left has no process and only a shallow groove. 14. Case by Tiedemann.^ Eight side. Nothing said regarding left. Process distinct. Brachial artery usual in position. High inter-osseous passes round process. Nerve not repre- sented. Process designated " an unusual excrescence from the humerus." 15. Caseby Mr Quain.2 Eight side. No information regarding left. Adult. Nerve and artery pass round process. The following generalizations may be made with regard to this process and its relation to the nerve and artery. As regards situation, length, and form.—The situation is re- markably constant. In the adult bones it is two inches above the internal condyle, measuring from the upper edge of that prominence to the middle of the base of the process. In one it was ^ inch nearer, and in one ^ inch farther from the condyle. In case No. 2 only did it lie considerably nearer the condyle, being an inch and a quarter from it, and here the process was long and of unusual breadth. The length varies from inch to f of an inch. It is seen in all stages—as a short rough line, a pointed tubercle rising from a base elongated upwards and downwards, and a hook or spur like process of greater or less length. I have never seen it longer than I of an inch. In the specimens figured it is of this length. It begins by a vertical ridge half an inch to an inch in length, » Tabulaj Arteriarum, 1822. Plate xv., fig. 3. ' Op. Cit., p. 223. Plate xxxvi., fig. 3.206 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. gradually rising to the commencement of the process proper. The process projects away from the bone, forwards, downwards and inwards, is flattened from before backwards, tapers to a blunt point; and, if prolonged for an inch, would form an arch of bone joining the ridge half an inch above the condyle. This is repre- sented by the ligament, and the process and ligament together, enclose between them and the bone an elliptical space, an inch in length and one-third of an inch in breadth, through which the median nerve and the brachial artery, with its venas comites, passed. The origin of the process with regard to the borders of the humerus is also constant. It arises from the internal surface of the bone, midway between the internal and anterior borders or a little nearer to the latter, and behind it there is usually a well marked groove, to which I shall again allude as existing on many arm bqnes on which there is no process. As regards symmetry.—In seven of the cases nothing was known of the other arm. Of these seven, six were on the left arm and one on the right. In fom- of the cases it was present on both sides—In three of these it was of equal length on the two sides, in one pair long, in one pair short, and in the third of medium length; and in the fourth they were unequal, the left very long, the right very short. In four cases in which both bones were examined, but in which the process was present on one side only, this side was the right in all; but in the case where it was present on both sides, and unequal, the left was much the longest. As regards sex and age.—The sex was known in ten of the cases; three of these were in males, and seven in females. In two of the tliree males it was present on both sides, and was so in only one of the females. Tlie specimens are from subjects of all ages. Three of them were young children, and in all of the three the process is well formed. As regards the arteries.—The state of the arteries was known in twelve of the subjects, and four of these presenting the pro-THE SUPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS. 207 ■ cess on both sides, we have sixteen instances in which to notice the relation of the arteries to the process. Where the artery is afFected by the existence of the process, it leaves the biceps near the insertion of the coraeo-brachialis, and passes down, with the median nerve, along the internal inter- muscular septum to reach the concavity of the process, under- neath which it then passes. Out of the sixteen instances, in nine the undivided brachial artery deviated and passed round the process ; in four, there was a high division, one of the arteries keeping normally along the edge of the biceps, the other deviating to pass round the process. The vessel which deviated in three of these four was the prin- cipal trunk, the high radial not deviating; in the remaining in- stance—that by Tiedemann—the deviating vessel was a high interosseous. In the remaining three, there was no deviation of the artery, although the process was present. In two of these the other arm was in all respects normal, in the third there was a long process and the artery deviated. Relation to Median Nerve.—In all the instances in which the artery de\'iated, and in which the position of the nerve was known, it also deviated and passed around the process, lying in- ternal to the artery as they entered the arch. In three of my cases the nerve deviated without the artery. In at least two of these it was accompanied by a small artery derived from the in- ferior profunda, which ran down with it, in the same way as the inferior profunda itself runs down with the ulnar nerve. This, however, was not a leading vessel, but only a muscular branch, not extending beyond the elbow, nor again joining with the brachial or either of its divisions. In every case where there was a process, whether short or long, and the nerve examined, it de- viated to pass under the process, whilst in three of these instances the artery did not deviate with it. This points to the inference that the supra-condyloid foramen is provided not so much for the artery, as is commonly supposed, but principally for the nerve. Relation to Muscles and Region.—The anatomy of the soft parts in the neighbourhood of a supra-condyloid process appeal's208 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. to be the same whether the nerve is accompanied by the artery or not. Proceeding from the tip of the process is a ligament or fibrous band, which arches downwards and inwards, and, blend- ing with the intermuscular septum, is inserted into the ridge a short distance above the condyle.^ The true intermuscular sep- tum dips down to be attached to the internal condyloid ridge of the humerus, and between this on the inside and the brachialis anticus and supra-condyloid process externally, is a grooved space, in which the deviating nerve and artery are placed. This hollow is bounded behind by the humerus, on which there is a 1 Internal Intermuscular Septum.—It appears to me that the normal anatomy of the part so named is not usually fully described. Reaching down on the inside of the arm, and connected with the aponeurosis, is a white cord like band, but this is not the intermuscular septum. The true intermuscular septum lies some distance in front of this, and is not so evident on the surface of the museies. The true septum dips down as a strong fibrous membrane to be attached to the internal condyloid ridge, and is fully half an inch in depth, forming a fibrous partition, between the brachialis anticus in front, and the inner head of the triceps behind, to both of which it gives origin. Below it passes to the internal condyle, having before been joined by the pos- terior ligamentous band; and above it is continued along the internal border of the humerus, as far as the insertion of the teres major,^ having again been joined by the posterior ligamentous cord. The latter separates from the true septum at or above the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and passes down on the surface of the in- ternal head of the triceps, lying posterior to the true septum, at a distance varying from three-fourths to a fourth of an inch, and again it joins the true septum, about an inch, more or less, above the condyle. It is connected in front to the true sep- tum by an aponeurosis, through wliich the muscular fibres are visible, and behind it is continued into the aponeurosis of the posterior brachial region. Close be- hind it is the ulnar nerve and inferior profunda artery. I have seen the nerve lie some distance ibehind it and uncovered by it, but usually the nerve will be exposed by an incision along the posterior edge of this fibrous cord. It appears to have reference to the position of the nerve, and, forming a tolerably resisting band over or along the hollow on the inside of the humerus in the lower half of the arm, may serve to protect the ulnar nerve from any pressure made against the inside of the arm. It is united above to the true intermuscular septum, the two together forming a fibrous cord running up along, and attached to, the internal border of the humerus and passing behind the tendon of the coraco-brachialis. The latter is usually said to be intimately connected at its insertion with the intermuscular septum. It appears so, and on one or two occasions I have found some fibres of the tendon continued into the septum; but usually they may be easily separated down to the hone, and it is evident that the septum passes up behind the tendon, as far up as the teres major, or as high as the highest point of origin of the internal head of the triceps, of which it appears almost like a tendon of origin in its whole length. I have repeatedly examined these points with care, dissecting down to the bone, and the above will be found almost in- ■variably to be the precise arrangement. I shall again refer to the deceptive feeling as if the true intermuscular septum was attached not to, but in front of, the internal condyloid line. We must therefore distinguish the true intermuscular septum, dip- ping down to the bone, the edge of which is not very apparent at first on the surface, from the very evident ligamentous cord behind it, which usually bears a close relation to the ulnar nerve, and might be called the internal brachial ligament, as a means of distinguishing- it from the true septum.THE SDPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS. 209 more or less marked groove, tlie artery or nerve not lying actually in this groove, but in front of it. The inner boundary of the groove is the internal condyloid ridge, the outer gives origin to the most internal fibres of the brachialis anticus muscle. The nerve and artery begin to deviate at the tendon of the coraco- brachialis muscle, and pass down in this grooved space in front of the intermuscular septum, the nerve internal to the artery, and bound down by an aponeurosis from it to the brachialis an- ticus. They now lie between the intermuscular septum and the process, and passing underneath the concavity of the latter, are covered by it and protected from pressure. Their direction is now changed, and they pass obliquely outwards to gain their normal position at the elbow. From the point where they enter underneath the arch they may be covered by a high pronator teres, or by a strong aponeurosis passing inwards from a raised portion of the brachialis anticus. A high origin to the pronator teres, which may at first form a separate muscle, appears to be frequently if not generally present in cases of supra-condyloid process. Relation of Supra-Condyloid Process to Humerus.—It has been already mentioned that the supra-condyloid process is situated, with very little variation, at the distance of two inches above the upper edge of the internal condyle. Its relaition to the surface and borders of the humerus is also constant. It is always placed on the internal surface, either midway between the internal and anterior boi'ders of the bone, or a little nearer to the latter; and the liga- ment which completes the arch has to pass downwards and in- wards to join the intermuscular septum above the condyle. This constancy of the position of the process, both as regards the dis- tance above the elbow and the surface of the bone, is remarkable and interesting; and, both in position and direction, the process will be found to correspond closely to the arch of bone by which the foramen is completed in the lower animals. I must here remark upon a method of describing the shaft of the humerus to be found in several of our best text-books of ana- tomy, by which this bone is represented as presenting two sur- faces only, an anterior and posterior. But the humerus, like the oTHE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. 210 other long bones of the limbs, has distinctly three surfaces and three borders. The error as regards the humerus, has no doubt arisen from the circumstance that two of the surfaces may be seen on the anterior aspect, but these two are no less distinct from each other than they are from the posterior. It is only in the lower fourth of the shaft that it becomes flattened from before back- wards, and from this part up to the surgical neck, the shaft is at least as thick on a side view as when seen in fi-ont; and trans- verse sections of the bone are at all parts of the shaft more or less triangular. The lateral borders are continued up from the condyloid lines, the outer ending at the back part of the greater tuberosity, whilst the inner is lost at the surgical neck, after pass- ing up, faintly, a short distance behind the inner edge of the bicipital groove. The anterior border is the most distinct of the three, except in the lower fourth, where, however, it is still quite distinct, though not sharp or rough. It is formed in the upper third by the external bicipital ridge, and is continued down from it to within half an inch of the coronoid fossa, which it bifurcates to enclose, and separates the external from the internal surface, the former in the low^er half being the broader of the two, owing to the prominence of the external condyloid ridge. The internal surface is that which I desire more particularly to notice. It support3fcthe supra-condyloid process in the situa- tion already defined; and behind the process, or in this situation, there is a gi'oove. This groove has been mentioned by Dr Knox in his papers already referred to, as existing in many arm bones. This part of the internal surface of the humerus is generally somewhat concave, though sometimes it is flat or even a little convex, and I certainly have found this groove present in the majority of a large number of arm bones that I have examined on purpose. In some this groove is altogether wanting, in a considerable proportion it is well marked, and in the majority it is present. It is seen in some young and adolescent bones, and appears to be at least equally distinct in those bones, the smooth- ness and straightness of which indicate them in all probability to have belonged to female skeletons.^ This supra-condyloid groove 1 There is no separate bone in which the diflference between the male and femaleTHE SUPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS. 211 is bounded posteriorly by the internal border or condyloid ridge, and in front by a special ridge, which marks off the posterior half or third of the internal surface as the groove. It reaches for about an inch down from the situation which a supra-condy- loid process would occupy, and from one to two inches upwards from it, to near the usual situation of the principal nutritious foramen. Taken along with the existence of a supra-condyloid process, this groove is naturally supposed to correspond to the position of the deviating nerve or artery; but in two of my specimens with this process, the groove is not so distinct as in the opposite bone, where there is no process and was no deviation of the nerve or artery, and in case No. 3, the process existing on both sides with deviation of both nerve and artery, the groove cannot be said to exist. Besides, the occurrence of the deviation of the nerve and artery, or of a supra-condyloid process proper, is comparatively rare—whilst I have said this groove exists in the majority of arm bones; and farther, since the artery or nerve do not properly occupy or lie in it, but only in front of it, even when the deviation exists, we must conclude, that the groove is not there for the pur- pose of lodging a vessel or a nerve. Being much puzzled to explain the meaning of this groove I have lately carefully ex- amined in a great many arms the exact relation of the soft parts to the humerus at this part, and the following will be found to be almost invariably the exact arrangement. The true intermuscular septum gives attachment by its pos- terior surface to fleshy fibres of the inner head of the triceps. On dissecting these fibres off down to the bone, the septum is felt to be attached to a sharp ridge, and a little distance behind this ridge a prominent but somewhat rounded edge of bone is felt, as if it was the internal border of the humerus. It appears as if the septum were not attached to the border, but to a ridge ^ or ^ (or at least the muscular atid less mnscular) is usually more striking than the humerus. In articulatinjj four pairs of these humeri to each other, I noticed the curious fact, in three of tliem, that the right is longer than the left. In one pair, male, the difference is a quarter of an inch ; in the other two, female, it is as much as half an inch. It would be interesting to ascertain whether the right humerus is generally thus longer than the left.212 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. inch in front of it, but this, however plainly felt by the finger in the dissection, is deceptive. The bone is at this time partially rotated outwards, so as to turn its posterior surface a little for- wards. On careful examination of the macerated bones, the condyloid ridge is seen to be the true internal border when the humerus is fairly looked at in front, but if turned a little outwards the part of the bone behind the condyloid line now projects. The true intermuscular septum, then, is really attached to the internal condyloid ridge or true internal border. On now dissecting on the outer or anterior aspect of the septum, it is seen to give origin to fleshy fibres of the brachialis anticus, down to the bone. The brachialis is now seen to arise directly from the surface or floor of the groove, also by fleshy fibres, and on separating these the outer edge of the gi'oove is usually very distinctly felt by the finger, and is often especially rough at about two inches above the condyle. From this ridge, and especially at this rough part, the brachialis anticus arises usually by distinct tendinous bundles or fibres, whilst its origin is again fleshy to the outside of the ridge. The groove is usually very distinct to the touch when we have dissected down to it in this way, the distinct and shai-p inner boundary giving attachment to the intermuscular septum, while the sometimes still more distinct outer boundary, at the part mentioned, is seen to give origin to the tendinous bundles for the brachialis anticus. This groove, then, generally existmg on the humerus, has no relation to the position of a nerve or arteiy. It appears not to be constructed to serve any purpose, as a groove, but to result from the development of the two ridges, the internal giving attachment to the intermuscular septum, whilst the meaning of the outer and shorter one remains to be noticed. Considering its position on the internal surface of the humerus, considering that its roughest part is just two inches above the condyle, that a small point or ridge-like tubercle may exist on it here, and that this is precisely the point from which the supra-condyloid process in its various stages grows, it appears legitimate to draw the conclusion that this short rough ridge is a rudimentary condition of the supra-condyloid process, the base of which grows out from such a ridge running vertically on the boneTHE SDPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. 213; at this part. This development into a process, however, but rarely occurs, and the rudimentary ridge is employed for the specific purpose of giving origin to tendinous fibres for the bra^" chialis anticus. We have seen that, in every case in which a process existed, the median nerve, when its position was noted, de- viated and passed round it, but we have other cases still to record in which the nerve and artery deviated but in which there was no process beyond the existence of the short rough ridge. The correct view to take perhaps is this—that the median nerve, ac- companied or not by the artery, occasionally deviates, and that, when it does so, we occasionally or usually find a protective arch thrown over it, formed by a supra-condyloid process above and a ligament below, being an arrangement analogous to that which occvu-s in the most highly formed condition of this part of the mammalian humerus. Comparative Anatomy.—Although there is no doubt that the foramen in the humerus affords protection to the parts which it transmits, it is not understood precisely in what manner it does so in the animals in which it exists, nor why they, more than some others, require such an arrangement for the protection of the vessel and nerve. The arrangement is found among the Quadrumana, Rodentia, Edentata, Marsupialia, and more frequently among the Carnivora. The cat presents the most familiar example, and the following description is taken from my dissections of the part in that animal. Bone.—The humerus is three inches and a quarter in length, and the situation of the upper end of the arch which completes the foramen, is half an inch above the internal condyle. The supra-condyloid process in man occupies the same proportional situation, being two inches above the condyle, whilst the hu- merus is on an average twelve inches in length; that is to say, the distance of the foramen in the cat, and the process in man, from the lower end, or internal condyle of the humerus, is about one- sixth of the length of that bone. The supra-condyloid foramen is a short oblique passage, directed downwards and forwards. The space is oval, measuring one-fifth of an inch in depth and one-twelfth214 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. of an inch in breadth. It is formed on the internal aspect, hy an arch of bone leaving and again joining the shaft. This arch, however, does not project abruptly outwards, like the process in man, but only slightly bulges outwards the natural sweep from the condyle to the inner border of the humerus, and, in the adult bone, forms a lesser projection than that of the condyloid ridge on the outside. The foramen, therefore, is not, as some have sup- posed, merely a space left to hold and protect the artery in con- sequence of the great development of this part of the bone,^ and by which the artery would otherwise have been thrown out of its course; and the development of the foramen farther shows that it is originally formed as a specific provision. Development of the Foramen.—I find that the arch, by which the foramen is at length completed, grows, as a process, from above downwards. It is developed from the shaft, and again unites with the shaft below, and is completed altogether indepen- dent of the epiphyses of the lower end of the bone. This v?ill be better understood by reference to the illustrations, figs. 4, 5, and 6, in which the bone is reduced one-third from the natm'al size. Figs. 4 and 5 are from the new-born kitten, the cartilaginous ends being preserved in the second. Besides a number of pre- vious observations, I recently examined both limbs in three new- born kittens of the same birth. In some the lower end of the process is not yet united to the shaft; in others it is just about to unite with it, so as to complete the bony foramen. Fig. 6 is from the kitten, five weeks after birth. The fora- men is seen to be completed as part of the shaft, and independent of the epiphyses, which are now ossifying. The arch by which the foramen is completed, thus resembles, during the early stage of its development, the supra-condyloid process on the human arm ; and were the latter prolonged in the direction of the ligament, it would correspond exactly to the arrangement in the cat, with this difference, however, that in man it starts more abruptly away from the humerus, although, on the other hand, its direction is not greater in this respect than 1 Introduction to the Natural History of Maramiferous Animals. By "W. C. Linnceus Martin, p. 89.THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. 215 is necessaiy to' leave a sufficient space for the nerve and blood- vessels. Seeing this to be the mode of its development m ani- mals, we are not sui-prised to find it, when it is present in man, to occur in the very young subject and female, as well as m the adult and muscular. It is not unlikely that the arch may be liable to variety in the extent of its development, leaving the foramen unfinished, in animals which normally have it completed. In one arm of an adult cat, I found the arch represented by a ligament only, which, both above and below, joined a short spicu- lura of bone. On the other side, the arch was bony and well formed, as seen in fig. 3, which is sketched from the preparation made from it, and now in my collection. In the adult bone, the arch is directed downwards and backwards towards the internal condyle, is flattened, measuring one-tenth to one-twelfth of an inch in breadth, is somewhat concave towards the foramen, and convex and smooth superficially. There is a distinct groove on the hu- mei-us behind the foramen, both above, where the nerve and artery he, and below, where no nerve or vessel is near, but almost no groove, or a very short one, in front of the opening, which corresponds to the abnipt departure of the artery and nerve after they have traversed the foramen. Nerve and Blood-vessels.—The brachial artery does not lie as in man, along the course of the humerus, but as it crosses the subscapidaris muscle, is removed considerably to the inside of that bone. It now reaches obliquely downwards and outwards, supported behind by the internal head of the triceps, approaches and touches the humerus just before entering the foramen, through which it now passes along with the median nerve. It then leaves the humerus, lies at a considerable distance in ft'ont of the elbow, and, after a course of an inch and a quarter after leaving the foramen, it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. The median nerve accompanies the brachial artery in the arm, through the foramen, and below it, always lying to its outside, so that the nerve lies highest as they traverse the opening. I have not noticed any veins passing through the opening with the artery, and in one dissection in which the veins were injected, they did not pass through, but those accompanying the arteries-il) THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. in the forearm, joined the superficial veins below the foramen, and, passing with them over the arch, reached up the arm super- ficial to the artery. Muscles.—There is no deep muscle by which the nerve and artery would apparently be directly or unavoidably compressed against the bone. They lie along, and are somewhat overlap- ped by, the inner edge of a very broad one-headed muscle cor- responding to the biceps of man. A few fibres of the triceps arise from the posterior edge of the bony arcK forming a thin separate lamina partially covering the nerve and artery as they enter the arch, but this could not directly compress them, nor can this be the object of the provision of the foramen. The pronator teres arises very slightly above the condyle, and does not cover the nerve or arteiy. But, superficial to all these parts is a muscvilar layer derived as an expansion from the latissimus dorsi and pectoral muscles, and this covers the whole internal brachial region, down to the level of the elbow, and over the situation of the foramen. This expansion is derived posteriorly from the anterior edge of a muscle, which extends from the latissimus dorsi to the olecranon process. This muscle arises by a short tendon, or tendinous intersection, at right angles from the lower margins of the latis- simus dorsi and teres major; passes vertically down the posterior part of the internal brachial region, with a length and breadth much like one of the recti muscles of the human eye, and is in- serted by a flat tendon into the inside of the olecranon and the fascia of the forearm. From its anterior border the thin mus- cular expansion passes forwards and joins with a similar one from the lower and superficial part of the pectoral muscle. Tliis expansion covers the whole of the region of the brachial artery, and reaches down even below the level of the condyle, ending now as an aponeurosis in front of the forearm. Considering the size of the animal this muscular expansion is of considerable strength, being about of an inch in thickness. I have lately, by the kindness of Professor Traill, had the op- portunity of dissecting these parts in the lion and ichneumon, in both of which the supra-condyloid foramen is present. In the217 THE SUPRA-CONDTLOTD PTIOCESS. Lion (the animal dissected was from Mr Wombell's collection, an adult lioness, which died after parturition) there was no muscu- lar expansion over the region of the brachial artery. The muscle, or muscular expansion, from the latissimus dorsi, lay along the posterior part of the internal bracliial region, and, coming as far forwards only as the position of the ulnar nerve, it ended in a strong aponeurosis, which passed downwards over the olecranon and internal condyle, and forwards over the-bracliial vessels and nerves, where it united with a similar aponeurotic expansion from the pectoralis major. The foramen, therefore, is not for the purpose of affording protection from a superficial muscular expansion, as the examination in the cat alone might lead us to suppose. In other respects the anatomy is the same as in the cat, on a much larger scale. At the lower edge of the tendon of the teres major the brachial artery lies an inch inwards from the humerus, and, for three inches downwards from this, is related behind to the spiral nerve and inner head of the triceps muscle. It is now within two inches of the foramen and lies upon the humerus. It now passes through the foramen, and for an inch below it, is still related behind to the bone, some fat and cellular tissue lying between ; and 2| inches below the foramen it divides in the forearm into radial and ulnar. When the elbow is ex- tended the course of the artery appears direct, but when the elbow is flexed the axterj appears to dip backwards to pass through the foramen. The median nerve accompanies the artery, lying parallel to its outside both in the arm and through the fora- men, on leaving which the nerve has begun to divide. It is about one-third of the size of the injected artery, is smaller than the ulnar, and half the size of the spiral nerve. The veins do not pass through the foramen, but cross over the arch, as two large veins, which again meet the artery above the foramen. There is only one muscle which could press upon the nerve or artery, being the one corresponding to the human biceps. This flexor radii muscle overlaps the nerve and artery from the teres major downwards, and as they come to cross obliquely in front of the humerus this large muscle is so placed that it might press them against the bone, at the part where the arch is thrown over themTHE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. to form the foramen. This, however, is not strikingly evi- dent, as the nerve and artery are so situated that it might be maintained that they would be pushed inwards by it, and not directly backwards against the bone; but it is at the same time plain enough that, during its action, this large muscle will press backwards upon the protective arch. The arch, as seen on the macerated bone, corresponds remarkably to the supra-coiidyloid process of man. The arch springs from the internal surface, nearer the anterior than the internal border, and passes down- wards and inwards to join the latter close above the internal con- dyle. The arch does not project much outwards. Lengthways, it is slightly convex externally, and concave towards the foramen. Across, it measures i inch, is convex externally, and flat or a little concave towards the foramen. The foramen is oval, J inch Ions, and ^ across at the middle. The upper end of it is li inch above the higher and most prominent division of the internal condyle, the entii-e bone being 111 inches in length; and there is a groove for an inch above and behind, and for half an inch below and before the foramen. In the Ichneumon (a carnivorous animal larger than the cat— the mangusta of Cuvier) the supra-condyloid foramen transmits the median nerve only, the arteiy and veins passing over the arch on both sides. In other respects the anatomy resembled that of the cat, only, the thin muscular expansion over the brachial region seemed to have become aponeurotic before it reached the supra- condyloid region. The median nerve crossed behind the brachial arteiy, and at the jimction of the upper and middle thirds of the arm, deviated from the arteiy and passed down along the front of the small intermuscular septum, and entered the foramen. A small muscular artery accompanied the nerve down the arm but not through the foramen. The artery and veins keep close along or underneath the inner edge of the flexor radii muscle, and again meet the nerve below the foramen. The course of the blood- vessels appears direct, whilst the nerve appears to bend down- wards and inwards, out of the direct course, in order to pass through the foramen. The flexor radii is not, at least in this domesticated specimen of the ichneumon, so bulky by one half as219 THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. in tlie cat, and when it acts, it appears as if the vessels would be pushed aside, whilst the nerve is protected by the arch of bone. ■ It may be infeiTed from this, that the foramen is primarily in- tended for the nerve, and this agrees with what we have seen from the cases of the variety in man, that, when the process exists, the nerve always deviates, whilst the artery may or may not. It may be compared in this respect to the supra-scapular notch in man, which always transmits the nerve, as the structure of greatest importance and least tolerant of pressure, while the artery passes over the- ligament and only occasionally under it, with the nerve. It is not unlikely that the nerve only may pass through in many of the animals, the skeletons of which present the supra-condyloid foramen, and also it is not unlikely that a process may occasion- ally be found as a variety on the humerus of animals which, like man, do not possess it as a regular character. With regard to the necessity for protection, we observe that the nerve and artery approach the bone obliquely, and have to cross in front of it above the elbow. Here any compressing force would have pressed them against the bone, and here accord- ingly an arch of bone is thrown over the nerve and generally over the artery also. They here approach the humerus much in the same way as the femoral vessels approach the shaft of the thigh bone in man, as they are about to become popliteal, and an ana- logy may be drawn between this provision in the humerus and the oblique tendinous canal by which the femoral artery is pro- tected from muscular pressure against the bone. But even although the above explanation were to account sa- tisfactorily for the existence and use of the foramen in those ani- mals which possess it, it does not seem to explain why these animals have or require it more than some others in the same orders, but in which it is wanting. After examining carefully the arm and elbow of the dog, for instance, I cannot see why the median nerve should not require protection in this animal as well as in the ichneumon above noticed. In the same way, however, it might be said, that we can see no precise reason, from the ana- tomy of the smTounding parts, why, in man, the supra-scapular nerve should be so specially protected in addition to the protec-220 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. tion afforded by the general hollow between the upper angle of the scapula and the coracoid process. We can only infer, from the fact of the median nerve, with or without the artery, being sent through a foramen under an arch of bone, that it required >this protection, and that, therefore, it has it. III.—ON THE VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES OF THE ARM. The varieties affecting the arteries in the aim may be arranged in three classes:—!. Varieties in the muscular relations: 2. Deviation of the artery from its usual course : And, 3, An early division of the artery by which two or more arteries exist, instead of one. 1. The first of these classes of varieties I have above considered and furnished examples of, in the cases of the artery being covered by a slip fi' om the latissimus dorsi, by an expansion from the coi-aco-brachialis, by a broad third head to the biceps, by an aponeurosis from the brachialis anticus, or by a thin portion of the muscle itself, and by a high origin of the pronator teres. 2. The second class is made up nearly altogether by the variety in connection with a supra-condyloid process. In this, the condyloid deviation, the position of the artery is changed in the lower two-thirds of the arm. Accompanied, as usual, by its venae comites and the median nerve, it is covered only by the aponeurosis and a sheath of fascia, derived from the outer edge of the intermuscular septum, along which it runs. But below the process, the artery, besides being directed obliquely outwards, is generally more deeply covered than usual, either by an aponeu- rosis from the brachialis anticus, or a high origin of the pronator teres. As the artery, at the process, lies three-fourths of an inch from the inner edge of the biceps, the ordinary incision along the edge of that muscle could scarcely enable the surgeon to reach the artery, but an examination of the arm before the operation was begun, would probably indicate the deviation of the artery byVARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. 221 the unusual situation of the pulsation, and in the cases where the process is well formed, it is easily felt from the surface. But the artery may deviate in this manner independent of the existence of a supra-condyloid process; as in four cases described and figured by Mr Quaiii. In these, the median nerve continued in the course of the intermuscular septimi,—accompanied, in two of the cases by the undivided brachial artery,^ and in the other two by one of two trunks into which the brachial had divided,^ and crossed or perforated the intermuscular septum, two or three inches above the internal condyle, and tlien inclined outwards to the usual position, under cover of a high origin to the pronator teres muscle. I have met this winter with a well marked case of this con- dyloid deviation, without the co-existence of a developed supra- condyloid process. The median nerve and undivided brachial artery deviate and pass down in front of the intermuscular sep- tum to within If inch of the condyle, and now pass beneath a fibrous arch and a high pronator teres, and are directed down- wai'ds and outwards to the bend of the elbow. As the nerve passes down with the arteiy and its venae comites, the nerve lying internal, they are sunk in a depression between the septum and the brachialis anticus. On dissecting aside the fibres of the brachialis anticus which lie behind and support the nerve and artery, a groove is distinctly felt in the humerus. The outer edge of the groove is a ridge, giving origin to fibres of the brachialis, and presenting a more elevated portion, like a rudimentary supra- condyloid process, exactly two inches above the condyle, and situated nearer the anterior than the internal border of the humerus. From this more prominent point arises the fibrous arch, which then stretches down to join the intermuscular septum. The high pronator has an origin an inch broad, begin- ning two inches above the condyle. It arises highest from the fibrous arch and farther down from the intermuscular septum, the vessels and nerve lying beneath the lower part of this high pronator, after they have entered the arch. But the high pro- > Op. Cit. p. 259. ' Plate \xxvi. fig. 4, and Plate xxxvii. fig, 1.THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE AEM. 222 nator arises here also behind the vessels and nei-ve, which there- fore appear for half an inch to be embraced by the muscle. The high pronator ultimately joins the normal pronator teres, but there is at the bend of the elbow a cellular space of half an inch between them, in which the brachial arteiy fs seen dividing op- posite the level of the condyle into the ulnar and radial arteries, the latter then passing through between the two pronator muscles to occupy its usual position over the true or normal pronator teres. In this case, then, there is a true condyloid deviation, exactly as in the cases of a developed process, but here the pro- cess could scarcely be said to exist. As above related, in thirteen of the cases in which an artery deviated, in connection with a supra-condyloid process, it was the entire brachial artery in nine, and one of two large vessels in the remaining four. In the latter case the surgeon would be very apt to overlook one of the arteries. I suspect it must have been the occurrence of some such variety, which has led to the common observation, that the inferior profunda branch is liable to be mistaken for the brachial artery in an operation. A case in which such 'a mistake was made by a late eminent surgeon, has been placed on record;^ "the inferior profunda, which was unusually large, was exposed and tied on the supposi- tion of its being the brachial artery." As the pulsation in the aneurismal tumour was not arrested, an after operation was per- formed and the brachial trunk successfully tied. As the normal inferior profunda branch is not larger than a crow-quill, I infer that in this case, and in similar ones, there was a high division of the brachial artery, and that the vessel first secured was one of the two, either lying near to, or deviating from, the coiu-se of the other, Avhich occupied the vsiial position along the inner edge of the biceps muscle. 3. Eegarding the high division of the brachial arteiy, the rela- tive frequency of it, and the various nature of the early branches, little remains to be done after the careful and extended observa- tions of Mr Quain, as recorded in his beautiful and valuable work on the anatomy of the arteries. From the observation of 1 Cycloped. Anat. and Phys. vol. i. 1836. Brachial Artery.VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. 223 481 arms, he has shown that the proportion of cases in which two arteries exist in the arm, is one in 5^. The previous estimate of Harrison, given in his valuable treatise on the arteries,^ from the observation of 82 cases, gave a proportion ot about one in four. Adding together the observations of Har- rison and Quain, the proportion will stand about, though rather less than, one in five. The early vessel is well known generally to be the radial, sometimes the ulnar, and occasionally a high interosseous; or, by a short union or cross branch below, a condi- tion equivalent to a double brachial artery, with the two divisions either equal or with one of the vessels much smaller than the other. But, although these details are of much interest to the anatomist, they in reality are of Httle importance to the surgeon, who is concerned with this fact only, that frequently there are two arteries instead of one, and that it may be so in the case in which he is about to operate. The important practical question then comes to be, supposing a second artery to be present, how is its existence to be ascertained, and how can it be reached. Har- rison and Quain have remarked, that the two arteries generally lie close together. The latter farther remarks^ that the radial artery " often arises on the inner side, and, after lying close to the larger vessel, crosses over it at the bend of the elbow ;" and that the ulnar at the lower part of the arm has a tendency to in- cline inwards from the usual position of the brachial trunk. My attention has been directed to observing the exact relative 'position of the two trunks more than to ascertaining the relative frequency of the different varieties ; and, although this opportu- nity is very apt to be lost in the ordinary dissections in the anatomical rooms, I have been able to note the exact position of the two vessels in twenty arms, eighteen of these presenting instances of the high radial, and the remaining two, of the high ulnar artery; and ten of these occurred in sixty subjects dis- sected during the earlier part of the present session. It would be tedious to give the details in each case from the notes now before me, and will suffice if I state the conclusions to which I have come. In nearly all of the cases the division occurred in ^ The Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries. Dublin, 1839. " Loc. cit. p. 263.224 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM- the axilla or high in the arm, thus presenting two arteries throughout the whole or greater part of the brachial region. It is necessary to consider the upper and lower parts separately, taking the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or where the artery normally crosses the lower end of that muscle, as the termination and commencement of the two portions. In the first portion of their com-se, the two arteries lay, in all the cases, very near to each other, separated only by the median nerve and a layer of deep fascia or sheath. One of the trunks lies superficial to the other. It is the high radial or ulnar as the case may be, and is usually, more or less, the smaller of the two; the other and deeper trunk represents more the position of the brachial, the median nerve being related to it as it is normally to the single brachial arteiy. The high radial, I have said, is somewhat superficial in position to the other, but it may, at the same time, lie to either side, or directly over the deeper trunk. In most of the cases it lay external and superficial, but in some it arose on the inner or anterior aspects, and then crossed over the deeper trunk to get to its outside. This will be found to be the exact position of the two arteries in the upper part of the arm, one lies immediately below the aponeurosis, and superficial, or (m a'plane anterior to the other. Close either on its inner or, it may be, its outer side, and behind, or on a plane posterior to it, is the other trunk, the median nerve crossing very obliquely between the two, and a layer of sheath also intervening. The deeper trunk, if the division is as high as the subscapularis muscle, furnishes the circumflex and subscapular, and then the profundse branches, while the more superficial trunk, keeping down by the edge of the biceps furnishes the external muscular branches. In the lower half of the arm there is considerable variety in the relative position of the tvro trunks, and they seldom lie so close together as above described in the upper half. It is neces- sary here to distinguish between high radial and high ulnar. As Mr Quain has remarked, the high ulnar has a tendency to pass to the inner or ulnar side away from the edge of the biceps. In both of my' cases, the high ulnar was, below, removed half an inch225 VARIETIES or THE ARTERIES. from the inner margin of the biceps, the deeper trunk in one of the cases being external to it, in the other internal, having the position of the condyloid deviation. In both, the high ulnar passed over the muscles of the forearm, although not superficial to the aponeui'osis. In the more numerous and common cases of high radial, I have observed, that the more superficial of the two, or high radial, coui'ses down along the inner edge of the biceps, covered by the aponeurosis and, it may be, slightly overlapped by the edge of the biceps, whilst the other trunk occupies a position internal to it and deeper, to a varying extent. The median nei-ve is at first still crossing obliquely between the two arteries, but, in the lower third, has now gained the inside of the deeper trtmk and descends parallel to its inside, in the situation where the two arteries are most separated from each othier. The deeper trunk is generally, if not always, covered by a second aponeurosis. It is very frequently, if not generally, lodged or suidc in a groove in the brachialis anticus muscle, and from the raised or projecting fibres on the outside of the artery, an aponeurosis is sent inwards over the artery and nerve, binding them down upon the surface of the brachialis muscle, or into a groove in it. Frequently also, the fleshy fibres themselves pass across or partly across, and bind down or overlap the artery and nerve, as already described to be a position not uncommonly occupied by the undivided brachial artery. The deeper trunk is thus so placed, that, to expose it, requires the division of a deeper layer of aponeui'osis, or the division or displacement of some muscular fibres, but a more important point is the frequent removal of the deeper trunk more or less to the inner side, gradually approaching the intermuscular septum, until it constitutes a condyloid deviation of the deeper of the two trunks. In some of the cases the deeper artery lies close to the inside of the high radial, but deeper, in some it was a quarter of an inch to the inside, in some half, and in several three-fourths, of an inch: in either case bound down by the deeper layer of apo- neurosis. In five of the cases, this inward separation went as far as to constitute the condyloid deviation. Two of these five were P226 VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. on opposite arms of the same subject, and in one of the subjects the non-deviating artery was the high ulnar. In the two occur- ring in the same subject, the anatomy was the same on both sides. The deviating trunk was three times as large as the non-deviating high radial. The deviation commenced at the insertion of the coraco-brachialis. The larger arterjr, with the median nerve lying in this case still to its outer side, passed down in front of the septum, sunk into a depression between it and a portion of the brachialis anticus muscle, to within 2| inches of the condyle, when they inclined outwards to pass below a fibrous arch and a high pronator teres. This fibrous arch begins at the septum, 2^ inches above the condyle, and reaches downwards to the aponeu- rosis of the forearm opposite and below the condyle, and the artery and nerve are nearly opposite the level of the condyle before they become concealed below the arch and the high pro- nator. The high pronator teres, as large as the little finger, arises from the outer edge of the fibrous arch, but also, tendi- nous from 1^ inch of the intermuscular septum, behind the artery and nerve, which thus appear to split the high pronator at its origin. Higher up the arm than the high pronator and fibrous arch, the deviating artery is bound down by some over- lapping fibres of the brachialis anticus, and an aponeurosis is prolonged from these to join the intermuscular septum. Here the artery lies half an inch inwards from the high radial. At the bend of the elbow tliey are separated by the high pronator, over which, but underneath the semilunar tendon of the biceps, the high radial artery lies. In the other three subjects, the anatomy of the deviating vessel was so exactly the same that one description will suffice. There was no high pronator teres, or fibrous arch pi-oper. The artery left the high radial, or ulnar, at the insertion of the coraco- brachialis, and passed down in front of the intermuscular sep- tum, sunk into a deep depression between it and part of the bra- chialis anticus, supported behind by the fibres of the brachialis which arise from the septum. The median nei-ve has crossed over tlie deeper artery at the middle of the arm, and now passes down parallel to its inner side. Arrived at within 1^ inch fromVARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. 227 the condyle, the nerve and arteiy now turn gradually and incline outwards and downwards to the elbow. Before the artery thus begins to incline outwards, it is placed ^ to f inch to the inside of the high radial, which lay along the edge of the biceps, but, in one of the three, the other artery, being the high ulnar, was nearer to it, having itself inclined inwards half an inch from the inner edge of the biceps. From the middle of the arm downward, in these, as in all cases of condyloid deviation, the artery and nerve, lying in the deep groove in front of the intermuscular septum, were bound down by a strong aponeurosis passing between the septum and raised fibres of the brachialis anticus, and, especially below, for two or three inches, also partially concealed by some of the fleshy fibres of that muscle. . The practical conclusions from these observations regarding the relative position of the two arteries, may be easily drawn. In a preliminary examination of the arm, the existence of two arte- ries may be ascertained by the pulsation, or it may be visible, as I have seen in an emaciated person. If no such preliminary information can be obtained, and if the artery first met with is not unusually small, and the ligature of it arrests the pulsation or bleeding below, there is no necessity or warrant for making a farther search. If it is otherwise, another vessel must be sought for. The artery first met with will, in all probability, be the more superficial. If it is in the upper half of the arm, the other arteiy will, if indeed the pulsation has not already indicated its position, be readily found a little deeper, separated only by the median nei*ve and a layer of fascia or sheath, either directly behind, or close to one side of, the one first found. The mere appeai'ance of the artery being small, does not necessarily indicate that it is only one of two vessels, as, in some female subjects especially, the arteries look veiy small, and are, in all persons, considerably smaller than the distended arteries seen in the dissectino- room and in museums; and, besides, it is not easy to judge of the true size of an artery in an operation, owing to the veiy limited extent to which it is exposed. It has been recommended, in the case of two arteries being met with, to secure that one only which is con- nected with the aneurism or bleeding vessel, but it is evidentVAEIETIES or THE ARTERIES. 228 that there can be no greater danger to the vitahty of the fingers from tying two ai-teries in a high division, than in tying the one artery when it ia single, and various good reasons might be as- signed for the rule to secure both. This rule may be departed from in the cases of false aneurism, and wound, when it is enough to place two ligatures on the artery concerned, one on each side of the aneurism or wound. These being the chief conditions requiring an operation in the lower part of the arm, it may not be necessary to search for the other arteiy, although the one first secured should evidently be only one of two. But if it is desired, the above anatomical details show that it will not usually be so easily found as in the upper half of the arm. It is often concealed by fleshy fibres from the brachialis anticus, and generally, either with or without this, bound down upon that muscle by a deeper aponeurosis. The median nerve is not now over it, but to its inner side, and the artery and nerve are often more or less re- moved towards the intermuscular septum, sometimes for three quarters of an inch; so that the artery will be found, not only deeper, beneath muscular or aponeurotic fibres, but in some part of the space between the inner edge of the biceps and the inter- muscular septum. The existence of two arteries at the bend of the arm is com- monly referred to as increasing the danger in the operation of venesection. There are two chances instead of one, of puncturing an artery by a rash plunge of the lancet; and besides, and more especially, one of the arteries lies more superficial than the other, pressing forwards, as it were, against the back of the semilunar process of the biceps, and may therefore be more readily punc- tured by the lancet. But the belief as to the greater danger of wounding an artery, in the case of a high division, seems to have arisen from the error of describing the high artery as actually superficial or sub-cutaneous. Thus—" in general the anomalous artery is the radial, and is sub-cutaneous in its course"—some- times both radial and ulnar are sub-cutaneous.^ I have never seen an artery of large size lie over the aponeurosis of the limbs or occupy a truly sub-cutaneous position, but Mr Quain has seen 1 Cycloped. Anat. and Phys., vol. i. p. 466.229 VARIETIES or THE ARTERIES. the radial artery once/ and the ulnar on two occasions, in dissec- tion, occupy this position, and several cases in which the latter artery was sub-cutaneous at the elbow, but became covered by the aponeurosis, after passing a short distance down the forearm ; and states that he has also seen an instance of each of these in living persons, the condition being, according to him, easily re- cognised. The two arteries are usually very differently covered at the bend of the arm. The deeper, as I have already described, is usually bound down by fleshy or aponeurotic fibres upon the bra- chialis anticus, or it may be overlapped or covered below by a higher origin tlian usual to the pronator teres muscle. The more superficial artery usually lies close against the posterior surface of the semilunar tendon of the biceps, in front of the deeper vessel, which may now be more directly behind it than higher up. The high radial artery I have seen lately, on two occasions, split- ting the semilunar tendon, the thicker portion being still above it. Besides the two cases of high ulnar, already mentioned, in which the artery passed over the muscles but under the aponeurosis of the forearm, I lately examined carefully a case in which the ulnar arteries in both arms, arose half an inch below the level of the condyle, and passed, as the high uhiar usually does, to this super- ficial position. They lay over the semilunar process, and over the aponeurosis of the arm for three inches, when they perforated the aponeurosis and lay below it. But still they were not sub- cutaneous, in the sense in which we speak of the veins being so. A layer of aponem'osis passed over it, forming a kind of arch over it, and binding it down in a kind of tunnel, so that it did not lie in the superficial fascia, but really under a fibrous aponeurosis, though over the thicker and proper aponeurosis of the arm. The artery in this position had no venee comites, these, from three inches above the wrist, left the artery and joined the superficial veins. The aponeurosis over the ulnar arteries in this case, was very readily removed, giving the arteiy afterwards the appearance of having been truly sub-cutaneous. The artery was seen and felt through the sldn before the dissection was begun, as the subject 1 Op. Cit., p. 318.230 VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. was emaciated, but it was not so prominent as the veins, wliich were also injected. This is probably wliat some would call a sub- cutaneous position, and it is worthy of future notice whether, in those rare cases in which the radial or ulnar arteries appear to lie over the aponeiarosis, a layer of it, binding them down, has not been removed. As regards the operation of venesection, a preliminary exa- mination of the front of the elbow should always be made, and if there is an artery pulsating very distinctly, the other arm may be taken, or the vein opened at some little distance from where the artery is felt pulsating. In the case of a high division, giving two ai'teries in the arm, I have always found each ai'tery accompanied by vense comites, giving, when the veins have been injected, a very complex ap- pearance to the vessels. Some describe one vein only as accom- panying the brachial artery, but I have always found two, with the usual cross communications. A few inches above the elbow, the basilic vein usually passes through an oblique opening in the aponeurosis, and joins, or is joined by, the internal of the two vense comites, which thereafter is so lai'ge that the other is apt to be overlooked. As a general rule, venge comites exist with all arteries in the upper extremity below the axillary, and in the inferior extremity below the popliteal.xyi. ON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA. The fascia whicli I shall describe under this name, is that usually termed the deep layer of the superficial fascia, or the true superficial fascia, of the groin, and frequently also the fascia of Scax-pa. Although the description of this fascia by Scarpa, as contained in the translation of his work on hernia, is very brief and imperfect, I shall retain the title fascia of Scarpa, as it is preferable to have a short specific name for a part to which frequent reference is to be made. This fascia, I believe, is not commonly understood fully, in the simplicity of its anatomy and importance of its surgicahbear- ings, and is, at least in some text books, incorrectly described. It is described as a deeper layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, passing down over Poupart's ligament, adhering to it as it crosses, and then terminating on the fascia lata across the groin, or by some it is said to pass down the femoral region, as a deeper layer of the superficial fascia there, separated from the other by the superficial vessels and glands, and spreading over the saphenous opening so as to form the cribriform fascia. In the common mode of conducting the dissection of the gi'oin, the true origin of the fascia is divided; and unless the dissection is made with a view to the demonstration of this fascia, its nature and connections cannot be seen or understood.232 ON THE FASCIA QP SCARPA. Dissection to demonstrate the Fascia of Scarpa.—Having re fleeted the skin of the groin for some inches botli above and below Poupart's ligament, divide the superficial fascia of the thigh two or three inches below Poupart's ligament, and, using the point and handle of the scalpel, turn it up, oflF the surface of the glands and superficial vessels, to about an inch above Pou- part's ligament. Next, by an incision curving down from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to near the sym- physis pubis, divide the fascia through its whole depth, down to the tendon of the external oblique; and now dissect the whole fascia down, close off the external oblique. The lax cellular tissue here, yields almost to the handle of the scalpel, but at, or immediately below Poupart's ligament, the handle of the scalpel is suddenly and firmly arrested. The dissection is now done. Now take the femoral end of the dissected superficial fascia in one hand, and the abdominal end in the other hand, lifting them up a little and stretching them up and down, and, on looking in below, a thin semi-transparent fibrous membrane is seen, passing between the superficial fascia and the fascia lata. This is the fascia of Scai'pa, fiiUy displayed; but if the glands and surround- ing cellular tissue be now carefully picked away from its lower or femoral aspect, the fascia will be more clearly seen. Description of the Fascia of Scarpa and its Relations.—The fascia of Scarpa is a thin semi-transparent membrane, of con- siderable strength, and not merely cellular, but fibrous in its nature. It arises from the fascia lata, across the groin, imme- diately below Poupart's ligament; passes up over the latter, and, after a course of an inch, as a separate membrane, joins and blends with the common superficial fascia of the abdomen. It is separated from the common superficial fascia opposite Poupart's ligament, and for an inch, or half an inch, above it, by the trans- verse set of lymphatic glands and the superficial vessels. Imme- diately above the position of these glands, it unites or blends with the common superficial fascia, and is not naturally separable from it farther, that is, not without artificial dissection, although the fibres of it are no doubt continued up and across the abdomen, as the deeper aspect of the common superficial fascia.ON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA. 233 This fascia belongs altogether to the abdominal region of the groin; it does not exist in the femoral region; but begins im- mediately below Poupart's ligament, as a prolongation upwards from the fascia lata, as a thin aponeurotic membrane, as broad as the groin itself, and about an inch in depth as.a separate membrane, from its attached margin, or origin, obliquely up- wards to where it becomes united with the common superficial fascia. The error of some, in describing this fascia as passing down- wards into the femoral region, forming a deeper layer of super- ficial fiiscia there and also the cribriform fascia, has no doubt arisen from the circumstance that the true origin of the fascia, from the fascia lata, is divided with the knife, under the impres- sion that it is only an adhesion of the fascia to Poupart's liga- ment which is being divided; but if this be divided, the fascia of Scarpa is destroyed. For some inches below Poupart's ligament, no doubt there is the appearance as if the common superficial fascia consisted of two layers, separated by the femoral glands and superficial vessels ; a thicker and superficial, containing more or less fat; and, behind and between the glands, laminated cellular tissue as a deeper layer. But these are not separate fascias; they both belong to the common superficial fascia, are both cel- lular in their nature, and quite continuous with each other, except at the points where a gland or vein necessarily separates them in making a bed for itself. It is therefore unnecessaiy and erroneous, to describe the superficial fascia below Pou- part's ligament as consisting of two separate layers or separate fasclfe. It is also incorrect to describe the fascia of Scarpa as passing over the saphenous opening and there forming the cribriform fascia; first, because this fascia stops, or rather begins, close, as close as possible, below Poupart's ligament; and secondly, because the cribriform fascia is a diflPerent structure, the correct under- standing of which is bound up with a correct understanding of the nature of the saphenous opening. The cribriform fascia is simply a thin covering to the saphenous opening, and limited to this; prolonged from the outer edge of234 ON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA. the opening, and losing itself hy covering and uniting with the femoral sheath, which, on the inside, adheres to the pubic portion of the fascia lata on the pectineus muscle. The outer and upper parts of the edge of the saphenous opening do not naturally exist as defined margins, until this true prolongation from them is divided with the edge of the knife; and the cribriform fascia is, therefore, a thin prolongation of the fascia lata itself across the opening, and not a portion of the superficial fascia adhering to the opening as it crosses it. delation of the Fascia of Scaiya to the Fascia of the Perineum.— Besides those already described, the fascia of Scarpa has an- other important connection, in its continuation around the sper- matic cord, towards the perineum, where it becomes continuous Avith the true superficial fascia of that region; a connection which is usually correctly described. The fascia in the perineum is variously called the deep or true superficial fascia, the deep layer of the superficial fascia, or the superficial fascia. Amongst these various definitions the student is often at a loss to know which structure is being described, and to avoid this source of confusion and derive the advantage from the use of a short specific name, I am in the habit of calling it the fascia of Colles, as the general con- nections of this membrane, and especially the course of infiltrated urine 'determined by the fascia, appear to have been first fully described in this country by the late ]Mr Colles of DubHn, in his excellent and practical treatise on surgical anatomy; and if ana- tomists would agree to call these two fasciae the fascia of Scarpa, and the fascia of Colles, it would save much perplexity to the student. The fact is, there is only one superficial fascia in the body,—the common superficial fascia,—equally extensive with the skin, com- posed fundamentally of cellular tissue, and containing more or less or no fat according to circumstances, but whether very thin, or very thick from fat, it is still the same cellular membrane, composed of areolar or filamentous, or what is after all much better to be called by the old name of cellular tissue; and although, especially when fat is laid down in it stratum after stratum, pre- sentincv sometimes an ajjpearance of layers, it is still one fascia,ON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA. 235 the common superficial fascia, reaching from region to region as the skin does. Then we come to the deep fasciae or aponeuroses, not cellular, but fibrous membranes, thicker or thinner according to circum- stances, and serving the altogether separate purpose of binding down the muscles; and not usually, like the skin and superficial fascia, common from region to region, but with its special ana- tomy in each region, connected with its bones and binding down its muscles. Now, the fasciae of Scarpa and Colles are, in their nature, intermediate between the superficial fascia and the apo- neurosis. They are deep and fibrous membranes, aponeurotic, at theu' origin from fibrous structures or aponeui'oses, but become cellular at their other connection, as they blend with the super- ficial fascia; they pass between the deep and the superficial fasciae and partake of the nature of each as they join each. The fasciae of Scarpa and Colles form one continuous mem- brane.—The latter joins the base of the triangular ligament, or true deep fascia, of the perineum, and is also there, like the latter, continuous with the thin fibrous membi'ane or fascia on the outer surface of the levator ani muscle; at the sides, it is fixed to the rami of the ischium and pubes, and upwards from this, it is fixed to the fascia lata, keeping some distance outwards from the pubes. Here it runs directly into the fascia of Scarpa; which now forms a continuation of it, as a barrier across the gi'oin, immediately below Poupart's ligament. The origin, or fixed or deep line of attachment, of this united fascia, then, is,—the base of the trian- gular ligament, the rami of the ischium and pubes, the pubic portion of the fascia lata over near the origin of the gracilis and adductor longus muscles, and the fascia lata all the way across the groin immediately below Poupart's ligament. The posterior part—fascia of Colles—is continued forwards into the scrotum, blending with the common superficial fascia, and thus forms a pouch, closed behind in front of the anus, closed laterally at the sides of the perineum, and open forwards into scrotum and up- wards around the cord. The anterior part, or fascia of Scarpa, continues the attachment of the sides of the pouch across the groin, so that the pouch, continued up from the scrotum alouo- the236 ON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA. cord, now widens out and opens laterally and upwards on the abdominal wall, between the continuation of the fascia of Scarpa and the surface of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, in which space there is a plentiful and lax cellular tissue. Relation of the Fascice to Infiltration of C/nne.—When the urine escapes from the urethra into the perineum, it passes forwards. It cannot pass backwards to the ischio-rectal fossa or anal region, on account of the reflection of the fascia of Colles to join the base of the triangular ligament; it cannot gravitate downwards along the inside of the thighs, owing to the lateral closure of the pouch; and it must therefore pass forwards, in the direction where no obstruction is presented by the lax cellular tissue. This may be readily illustrated by introducing a blow-pipe, or bellows, through an opening in the fascia of Colles, in front of the anus, when the air will readily force its way for- wards and inflate the scrotum, but does not reach backwards or side ways. The infiltrated urine, if not evacuated by incisions, made deep enough to reach it, continues to ascend over the cord, passing up to the hypo-gastric or even to the umbilical region, but it does not gravitate downwards to tlie front of the thigh. This is pre- vented by the fascia of Scarpa, which, forming a fibrous barrier across the whole groin, fixed to the fascia lata, efifectually pre- vents the fiuid from passing downwards. It therefore passes upwards, and infiltrates the plentiful and very lax cellular tissue which lies close on the outer surface of the tendon of the external oblique; the continuation upwards of the fascia of Scarpa, as the deeper aspect of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, still pre- venting the fluid from becoming subcutaneous and descending to the thigh. Relations of the Fascia of Scarpa to Hernia.—The fascia of Scarpa forms one of the coverings of the cord, as it passes to be continuous with the fascia of Colles, turning round in below the cord, and forming a kind of tube or canal within which the cord descends to the testis in the scrotum. The fascia of Scarpa, then, assists in directing a complete inguinal hernia down into the scrotum, and forms one of its coverings. It does237 ON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA. not form a covering to the femoral hernia, but a complete femo- ral hernia lies upon it; and its union, a little above Poupart's ligament, with the common superficial fascia, will tend to obstruct the farther upward passage of a femoral hernia. The femoral hernia, after it has passed down the crural canal (which is rather, as far as the hernia is concerned, a broad ring than a canal) be- comes complete by turning round the lower margin of the falci- form process, there being now no longer any dense structure to keep it from swelling forwards, and now passes up so as to lie upon the falciform process and on the inner part of Poupart's ligament. Here it lies on the fascia of Scarpa, and has insinu- ated itself into the space occupied by the glands, and, meeting with the angle of union between the superficial fascia and the fascia of Scarpa, it will be arrested in its farther progress upwards, although at the same time, irrespective of this, there is little na- tural tendency in the femoral hernia to continue to ascend, but rather simply to swell out in all directions, if it continues to enlarge. The true relation of the fascia of Scarpa to the fascia lata was, as far as I am aware, first correctly described by Mr Listen^ in a Memoir, the chief purpose of which was to show that the crural arch, or deep crural arch, is formed independent of Poupart's ligament, by the iliacportion of the fascia latapassingin behind Pou- part's ligament, and joining with the fascia transversalis; the union of the two, arching inwards over the vessels and crural ring, and forming a tight arch, which remains so after Poupart's ligament has been altogether dissected out. He describes the true orio-in of the fascia which I have described as that of Scarpa, and cor- rects the notion that it passes down upon the thigh. He thus very correctly describes the terminations or connections of the fascia lata at the groin—" The iliac portion, forming the falciform process, is again divided into two layers ; the one passing ante- riorly to the abdominal muscles, and named the superficial ab- dominal fascia ; the other, again, lining their inner surface, and passing betwixt the transversalis muscle and peritoneum, forming the fascia transversalis. The lower part of the abdominal muscles ' Memoir on the Formation and Connections of the Crural Arch. Edin, 1819ON THE FASCIA 01* SCARPA, 238 andPoupart's ligament thus lie in the angle of splitting, or union of all these fescias, and the crural arch is formed by this lunc- tion." He refers to the relation of this fascia to inguinal hernia, but not to its relation to the fascia in the perineum, or to the course of the infiUrated urine, nor does he give a more ex- tended view of its connections than that stated or implied in the above quotation, which, however, shows that he Avas acquainted with its true origin from the fascia lata close below Poupart's ligament. The description I have given, embraces what I believe to be the true anatomy and surgical bearings of the fascia of Scarpa. The reason why it is by some incorrectly described, and perhaps in none of our anatomical works described clearly as having the anatomy I have endeavoured to explain, is, I believe, tliat its ori- gin, as a continuation upwards of tlie fascia lata is usually divided, either from above or from below, after which the fascia cannot be seen, that in fact this fascia is but seldom seen in dissections. But if the dissection is conducted according to the method above described, the demonstration of the fascia is very easy, and it only requires to be once seen in this way, to satisfy the dissector that this is its true anatomy. The whole anatomy of this fascia is very simple, and, together with its siai'gical bearings, may be shortly described thus— The fascia of Scarpa arises from the fascia lata close below Poupart's ligament, passes upwards for an inch, and blends with the common superficial fascia. It is separated from the lower part of the tendon of the external oblique, behind, by very loose cellular tissue, and, before, from the common superficial fascia by the superficial glands and vessels; and is continued inwards around the cord, becoming continuous with the fascia of Colles or true superficial fascia of the perineum. It is a thin aponeurotic or fibrous membrane, forming a barrier or septum across the groin, by passing between the fascia lata and the common super- ficial fascia. When the urine, infiltrated in the perineum, has been directed upwards along the cord by the fascia of Colles, the fascia of Scarpa prevents it from passing down the front of theON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA. 239 thigh. In relation to hernia,—it assists in directing an inguinal hernia into the scrotum, and forms one of its coverings; it is covered by a femoral hernia, and tends to prevent the femoi'al her- nia from passing upwards on the abdomen, by means of its union with the common superficial fascia. END OF PART I.MUURAY AND QIBB, PRINTERS, EDINBUBOH.r