57 HOW TO COOK. Fish and Oyster Soup.—Stew any small fish you may have, slices of skate or any fish which may happen to be plentiful, for some hours, in sufficient water. Strain it, season, flavour, and thicken it, and before dinner-time open a quarter of hundred oysters, and put them in; when they are hot and plump serve the soup. Lobster or Cray-Fish Soup.—Boil lobsters or cray-fish and pick out all the meat, and break up the shells small in a mortar; six small lobsters, or the same proportion of larger ones, or of cray-fish, will do. Put the broken shells into four quarts of water, with a pint of green peas, a turnip, a carrot, an anchovy chopped up. a little thyme, and seasoning of mace, cloves, pepper, and salt. Stew them over a slow fire until there is no goodness left in the shells; strain off the liquor, put in the lobster or cray-fish cut small, with the coral if there be any. Let it boil a little time, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, stir it well and let it simmer a few minutes. Fry a Fx-ench roll brown on all sides, lay it in the tureen, pour the soup on it, and serve it very hot. Fish and Vegetable Soup.—Stew six pounds of fish with a couple of carrots, some white-hearted lettuces pulled leaf from leaf, leeks and onions to taste, and a handful of sorrel, or its equivalent in vinegar, in water enough to cover them, until all are boiled to rags; then add water enough to make the quantity of soup required, and some to spare for waste, and let it simmer on, closely covered, for an hour. Cut up all kinds of vegetables, fry them until they are brown, strain off the soup, put it and the fi-ied vegetables together, season with pepper, salt, and two cloves, and simmer for half an hour. Put a French roll or two rounds of toast into the tureen, thicken the soup with three new-laid eggs well beaten up, or some flour, and pour it over the bread. Fish and Pea Soup.—Boil the fish with carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, &c., until all will pulp through a sieve. Boil old peas, di-y or green, pulp them also, and add to the rest, them and the liquor they were boiled in. Add milk or cream to taste, pepper and salt ; let the soup boil enough, keeping it stirred, and at the last boil young green peas until quite tender, allowing a pint to a good tureenful of soup; put the green peas into the tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Fragrant Fish Soup.—Take skate, flounders, and eels, cut them up, and if they are for brown soup fry them brown in