85 HOW TO COOK. EGGS, AND THEIR COMBINATIONS. Eggs, which contain every element of food, combine with almost every other article of diet, entering into the composi- tion of hundreds of delicious dishes. The white of the egg is almost pure albumen, the yolk is albumen and oil in nearly equal proportions. The proportions of white and yolk best liked in omelets, custards, puddings, cakes, are five yolks to three whites; but if a small quantity of rich milk or cream is added all the whites may be used. In cooking eggs in any of the hundred ways the first rule is not to cook them too much. The hard white of an egg is very slow of digestion. Eggs should be kept in a cool and perfectly sweet place, for they absorb through their porous shells all the odours about them. If these pores of the shells are filled with wax, gum, oil, or any substance that makes them air-tight, the egg will keep fresh a long time. They will also keep in a strong salt brine, or even covered with fine salt. If eggs are plunged in boiling water for half a minute, and then into cold water, and put away in a cold place, they will keep a long time, pre- served by a thin envelope of hardened albumen. To test an egg hold it to a candle; close one eye, and look through it. If clear, it is fresh and good; if there are only a few white spots, it will do for puddings; if a black spot, it is bad. Fresh eggs are taken raw from the shell, swallowing the yolk whole; or dropped in a glass of wine. Raw eggs are also beaten up with sugar and a little wine or spirits. Boiled Eggs are badly done almost everywhere. They are half- raw, or hard; whereas they should be cooked evenly through, the white a jelly, and the yolk well set. This may be done by putting them for five minutes in water at 200 degrees Farenlieit—12 degrees below the boiling point. An easier way is to put the eggs into cold water, and let them come, not too quickly, to the boil. The moment the water boils, remove them from the fire, and let them stay in the water one minute: or they may be sent to table in the water in which they were boiled. Fried Eggs have an agreeable flavour, but the whites spread, and are commonly made very tough and indigestible. The butter should not be too hot, and they should cook slowly.