110 HOW TO COOK. of milk for ten minutes; add another pint of milk, two ounces butter, four ounces white sugar, three well-beaten yolks of eggs; flavour with a few drops of almond extract, or a teaspoonful of pounded cinnamon. Or, soak in warm water one teacupful of tapioca; beat four eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sugar; melt in half a pint of milk one ounce of butter. Stir together; flavour to taste, and bake in a quick oven. Or, take a teacupful of tapioca; wash in cold water, and lay it to soak for six hours in a quart of new milk; then put it over the fire and stir until soft; add two ounces of butter, spice, sugar to taste, and two well-beaten eggs; put it into a well- buttered dish, with or without a rim of crust, and bake half an hour. Marmalade is sometimes put into the dish before bak- ing, and the tapioca, sago, or other pudding poured over it. Sago Pudding. Baked.—Boil two great spoonfuls of sago in a pint of new milk, with cinnamon, nutmeg, and sugar; when well thickened, mix in three beaten eggs; lay a puff-paste round your dish; put in the sago, and bake it for forty minutes. A plainer way is to wash a good tablespoonful of sago, and put it into a buttered pie-dish; pour a quart of milk over it; sweeten it; add a little spice, and place it in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Sago Pudding, Boiled.—Boil two ounces of sago in a pint of new milk till perfectly tender; when cold, add five beaten eggs, two ounces of bread-crumbs, a little brandy, and sugar to the taste. Mix all well together; boil it for one hour in a basin tightly covered with the floured cloth, and serve with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. Semolina Pudding.—Boil a pint of milk and gradually stir in enough semolina to thicken it sufficiently; add some loaf- sugar, three or four beaten eggs, and a spoonful of orange- flower water; butter a mould and dust it thickly over with sifted bread-crumbs and pounded sugar. Pour in, bake for half an hour. Arrowroot Pudding.—Boil a stick of vanilla in a pint of new milk, stir in a large spoonful of arrowroot, first mixed smooth with a little cold water; stir it over the fire until it is thick enough; sweeten it; add the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two. Line the edge of a buttered tart-dish with a rim of paste; put in the pudding; pour a little cream upon the top, and bake it for half an hour. Or, for a plain pudding, take