HOW TO COOK. 99 bake lightly. They are toasted, or heated under a cloth in the oven, and buttered. Muffins.—The dough, made with butter and egg as above, when risen is beaten twenty minutes with a wooden spoon, then formed into balls on a well-dredged board, covered and set to rise twenty minutes, then baked lightly on a hot plate. Muffins of Unbolted Flour (Wheat-Meal.)—Mix thoroughly together one quart unbolted flour, one gill line flour, two table- spoonfuls syrup or brown sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful salt, half cup yeast, one quart milk; let the batter stand in a moderately warm place over night, and bake in muffin rings, or in a quick oven in well-buttered patty-tins. Muffins.—Melt a quarter cup of butter in three-quarters of a pint of milk, add one tablespoonful of sugar, $alt, and two well-beaten eggs, a gill of yeast, and stir in sufficient flour to make a moderately stiff batter. Let the dough stand eight or nine hours to rise; bake as above. Benton Tea Cakes.—Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, four to eight ounces; add sufficient milk, and roll the cakes thin; bake in a pan or on tins in an oven. Rice Cakes.—Ground rice, sixteen ounces; or wheat-flour, eight #unces; and ground rice, eight ounces; eggs, twelve; sugar, sixteen ounces; the peel of one lemon grated, and half the juice. Breakfast Cakes.—Mix thoroughly one pound flour with half a teaspoonful of tartai-ic acid and same of salt, and one ounce sifted loaf sugar. Dissolve half a teaspoonful bicarbonate of soda in three gills of milk, to which add two well-whisked eggs, and with this liquid work the flour into a light dough. Divide into small cakes, and bake immediately. A Rich Plain Cake.—Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, eight ounces; one egg; sugar, eight ounces. Add currants, twelve ounces; citron, orange-peel, nutmeg. Scotch Bread.—Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, eight ounces; sugar,eight ounces; almonds, four ounces; candied lemon, two ounces. Form the whole into cakes about half an inch thick. Galette.—Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, twelve ounces; eggs, two; sugar, two teaspoonfuls; salt, quarter of a teaspoonful; cream, one gill; and a little milk if necessary. Work all well