HOW TO COOK. 126 rice, two ounces of sugar, a few drops of the essence of almonds, or other flavour, with two ounces of fresh butter; add one quart of milk, boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, then pour in a mould previously oiled, and serve when cold. It will turn out like jelly. If no mould, put either in cups or a pie-dish. Ground Rice Blanc-Mange.—Milk, one pint; ground rice, two ounces; sugar, two ounces; lemon peel, cinnamon, or other seasoning. Boil the milk, and flavour; mix the rice smooth with a little cold milk, and stir it with the boiling milk till quite thick; mould, and serve it with a little cream and sugar, or decorate with sweetmeats. Arrowroot and tapioca may be prepared in the same way. Or, two-thirds ground rice, and one-third arrowroot. Moss Blanc-Mange.—When carrageen moss is used, wash and steep from half to three-quarters of an ounce in water for three minutes; take it out, and shake the water from each piece; then boil the moss in a quart of milk, or milk and cream, until it attains the consistency of warm jelly, or until sufficiently thick to retain the shape of the mould. Strain it through a muslin bag, and season as above. Arrowroot Blanc-Mange.—Take one quart of milk, and mix with it four tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, flavour to taste, then boil the whole four minutes, stirring it all the time; allow it to cool in a mould, and serve up with milk and jelly, or milk and sugar. Isinglass Blanc-Mange.—Beat two ounces of blanched sweet almonds and six bitter almonds to a paste, mix them with a quart of rich new milk and quarter of an ounce of washed isin- glass; boil it until the isinglass is dissolved, sweeten, stir until it is almost cold, put it into a mould, wrhen set, turn it into a dish and serve. Or, you can use arrowroot, tapioca, sago, corr starch, in place of isinglass. Stewed Cheese.—Grated cheese, four ounces; new milk, a quarter of a pint; butter, half an ounce, or more, as the cheese may require; stew the whole till quite smooth; when cold mix it with a wrell-beaten egg, put it on a dish, and brown it as above. Stewed Cheese and Onions.—Stew four middle-sized onions in a pint of water till quite soft; then add four ounces of sliced or grated cheese, and two or three ounces of butter; stir the