102 HOW TO COOK. Wisconsin Calces.—Beat two eggs lightly, stir thoroughly to- gether two cups wheat meal, one cup line flour, one pint milk, a little salt, and bake in small fluted tins in a very hot oven. Excellent Breakfast Rolls.—Make a hole in a quart of flour put in half a pint of milk that has been boiled, and half a cup of butter, four do., melted. Add two table spoons sugar and yeast, and let tills stand two or three hours without stirring. Salt to taste, then knead it, and let it rise until light. Mould, and rise again in the pans before baking. The rolls require a quick oven. Sally Limn— Take one quart flour, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful carbonate soda, a half cup of butter, a quarter cup sugar, two eggs, a little milk. Sift the cream of tartar and soda with the flour, rub in the butter, add the sugar, eggs, and enough milk to make a moderately stiff dough. 'i: A Plain Cake —Take three cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, piece of butter the size of an egg, two tea- spoonfuls cream of tartar, one of carbonate of soda; any flav- ouring liked. Rub the sugar and butter together, add the beaten egg, the milk, and flavouring, and the flour through which the cream of tartar and sbda has been sifted.—(See note.) Gems.—Stir very slowly wheat-meal into cold water with a little salt, until it is as stiff as common batter. Bake in small buttered tins, previously well heated, in a fierce oven. Syrup Cake.—Take one cup sugar, one cup syrup, three- quarters cup butter, one cup milk, two eggs, one quart flour, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful mace, one cup raisins, one teaspoonful soda, and two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. Rub the sugar and butter together, add the syrup, eggs, and flavouring, then the milk in which the soda has been dissolved, the flour through which the cream of tartar has been sifted, last the raisins. Bake at once.—(See note.) Elizabeth Cake.—Take four cups flour, three cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, four eggs, one lemon, one teaspoon soda, half teaspoon cream of tartar. Rub the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs, jmlks and whites beaten separately, and the milk. Sift the cream of tartar through the flour, and add next, the juice and grated rind of lemon; last the soda. * Baking powder may be used, well worked into the flour or “pre- pared flour,” in place of the cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda.