31 HOW TO COOK. Whatever we mingle with it, water alone is the solvent of our food, and is the liquid portion of blood, brain, nerve, muscle, and the serous and lubricating fluids. Tea, coffee, and alcohol, are narcotics, and, in sufficient doses, poisonous: for drink, water is as proper and sufficient for man as it is for all other animals. Tea and coffee, like tobacco, act upon the nerves, and pro- duce more or less injury in proportion to the amount consumed, and the susceptibility of the constitution. Alcohol, whether in beer, wine, or spirituous liquors, stimulates, intoxicates, stupefies, and brutalises, if taken beyond a very moderate quantity. Those who cannot keep to the line of temperance should totally abstain. Those who have the requisite self- control may drink the finer fermented juices, which develop but a small amount of alcohol, not only without injury, but, in some cases, with advantage. Still, the rule remains that water is the best—the only real drink for men and animals. Pure soft water is best. Clean rain water can be had by means of filtration in most places. It is nature’s distilled water; and with a little trouble might be procured everywhere in sufficient quantities for drinking and cooking. The cele- brated Malvern springs are nothing but rain water filtered through clean hard gravel. The science of what I may call Dietetic Medicine has not been much studied. It is the misfortune of medicine that the health of the public and the interests of the profession are opposed to each other. Could doctors be paid in proportion to the healthfulness of the community, there would be far less disease. Food really is diseasing or curative—medicine or poison. For example, fine flour bread, cake, pastry, eggs, and all highly concentrated food cause constipation, whereas, boiled ■wheat, wheaten grits, or stirabout, coarse oatmeal porridge, figs, stewed prunes, most fruit, spinach, &c., remove it. Fat, greasy food, butter, cream, eggs, eels, mackerel, salmon, chocolate, make people bilious; fruit and fruit juices cure biliousness. The acid and sub-acid fruits, as grapes, straw- berries, currants, peaches, dissolve gravel, or urinary calculi. A coarse diet of fat flesh and fine flour, bread and pastry, make coarse blowzy complexions, or yellow bilious ones, whereas a bread and fruit diet gives purity of complexion, as well as vigour and clearness of intellect. For many diseases resolute fasting—that is, living on a very moderate quantity of food—is the only cure.