HOW TO COOK. 59 hour, skim it well, pass it through a sieve, and it will be found clear and ready for use. This is a plain neat stock; but it will be much nicer, if we add two cloves and about two ounces of carrot, and the same of turnip, leeks, celery, or a quarter of a pound of one of them, if you cannot get the variety. To add more zest to the flavour, add the smallest quantity of thyme, winter savoury, or a bay leaf. To colour, put in half a burnt onion—an onion fried in butter until it is quite black, or browning may be used. (See Sauces.) Beef Tea.—Cut a pound of beef into small dice, which put into a stew-pan with two small pats of butter, a clove, a small onion sliced, and two saltspoonfuls of salt; stir the meat round over the fire for ten minutes, until it produces a thickish gravy, then add a quart of boiling water, and let it simmer at the corner of the fire for half an hour, skimming off every particle of fat; when done pass through a sieve. If wanted plain, omit the vegetables and clove: the butter is taken out in skimming; pearl-barley, vermicelli, rice, &c., may be served in it if required. A little leek, celery, or pars- ley may be added. Qihlet, Oxtail, and other Thick Meat Soups.—Take a turkey’s giblets, or those of two chickens, or a pound of oxtail cut in pieces, or other meat, properly prepared; put into a pan a quarter of a pound of butter or dripping, melt it, add four ounces of flour, stir continually until it begins to brown, add two onions or leeks sliced, fry a few minutes longer, put in the giblets, fry gently for ten minutes, stirring now and then, pour over two quarts of water, stir till boiling, and set it to simmer; then add two teaspoonfuls of salt, half one of pepper, one of sugar, three cloves, a little thyme, bay leaf, and about a quarter of a pound of celery well washed and cut up small; continue simmering until the giblets are tender, remove the fat, and serve. Mutton Broth.—Cut two pounds of the scrag, or any other lean part of mutton, in ten or twelve pieces, put in a pan with two ounces of fat, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half of pepper, a gill of water, two middle-sized onions, a good teacupful of pearl barley. Set it on the fire, stir round until it is reduced, moisten with five pints of water, boil, and skim, simfiier two hours, and serve. Potato Soup.—Proceed as above, omit the barley, add two pounds of potatoes, peeled and cut in slices, put them in when