ADVERTISEMENTS Now ready, in 1 vol., crown 8vo., 496 pp., bevelled boards, extra cloth, with 7 0 illustrations. Human physiology the basis of sanitary and SOCIAL SCIENCE. In Six Parts: I.—The Actual Con- dition of Humanity. II.—Matter, Force, and Life. 111.—The Human Body. IV.—The Laws of Generation. V.—Health, Dis- ease, and Cure. VI.—Morals and Society. By T. L. Nichols, M.D., F.A.S., Author of “Forty Years of American Life,” “Eso- teric Anthropology,” &c., &c. London : Triibner & Co. New York : J. S. Redfield. This unique work treats in Part I. of Man and his Relations— Premature and Preventable Mortality—Mortality of Classes and Conditions—Infant Mortality and Infanticide—Poverty and its Evils—Ignorance—Drunkenness—Dishonesty and Crime—Vice and Immorality—Prostitution and its Consequences. In Part II., of Matter—Force—Life—Animal Life—Life in the Higher Orders of Animals—Human Life and Immortality, and the futilities of the Darwinian philosophy. In Part III., of Bones and Muscles—Brain and Nerves—The Five Senses—The Alimentary System—The Blood—Secretions and Excre- tions—Idiosyncrasies—Laws of the Bodily Life—Life and Death. In Part IV., of Vegetable Reproduction—Animal Reproduction— Germination and Fecundation—Embryology—Physical Love—Love and Marriage — Hereditary Transmission — The Laws of Sexual Morality—Problems of the Sexual Relations. In Part V., of Health—Conditions of Health—Disease—Causes of Disease —Prevention of Disease—Medical Systems and Practice— Hydropathy; or, the Water Cure. In Part VI., of the Moral Basis of a True Society—Human Rights and Responsibilities—Leadership and the Elements of Social ()nler— Economies of a True Society—Social Theories—Difficulties of Social Organisation—Government and Political Economy—Education— Principles and Preparation—The Human Constitution the Model of Human Society. Human Physiology may be had of all Booksellers, elegantly bound in bevelled boards, extra cloth, burnished red edges, price 7s. 6d. Subscription edition, plain boards, extra cloth, of the Author only, post free for 5s. 6d. Orders to Dr. T. L. Nichols, Hygienic Institute, 39 Museum Street, London, W.C. Post Office Orders on Great Russell Street. Each Part Separately, One Shilling.