HOW TO COOK. 65 serve it with lobster sauce or shrimp sauce. Large plaice will boil in the same manner, but will take less time. Turbot au Court Bouillon.—Boil water enough to cover the fish with salt, parsley, thyme, two or three laurel or bay leaves, an onion cut up and a clove of garlic; let it boil half an hour and stand to settle; when clear, pour it off. Rub the turbot with lemon-juice, and simmer it in the liquor prepared (the court bouillon) for an hour, if the fish be of medium size. It must never boil, but only simmer; and if the kettle be covered with a sheet of paper well buttered, it will keep the whiteness of the fish. Drain, and serve on a napkin sur- rounded with parsley, with caper sauce in a tureen. Other flat fish, the Brill, the Plaice, the Flounder, the Dab, and the Sole, are dressed in the same way. Scalloped Fish.—It may be done either in a pie-dish or in scallop dishes, using three or more to form a dish. Divide cooked fish into small flakes, roll them over in thin melted butter, thickened ci’eam, or any sauce that is liked, and flavour them nicely to taste with seasoning, minced herbs, spice, or any agreeable sauce. Pack the fish on a bed of bread-crumbs, cover it with more bread-crumbs, lay bits of butter all over the top, and bake it in an oven, or in a Dutch oven, until it is brown on the surface. It may be done in the same way, using very nicely mashed potatoes in place of the bread-crumbs. Fried Herrings.—Choose them, like all fish, of a bright sil- very appearance, stiffness, and brightness in the eyes and gills. Clean and scale, and dry in a cloth. Fry them to a bright colour. The herring, being so rich a fish, should be fried with less fat than fish of most kinds, and well drained and dried afterwards. A nice sauce to eat with herrings is sugar, mus- tard, and a little salt and vinegar. Crisp parsley to garnish them may be used. Fry Sprats in the same way; they require no sauce, unless it may be a little lemon, pickle, or ketchup. Broiled Herrings.—Clean and dry the fish, cut off their heads, flour them, and broil them. Break up the heads and boil them for a quarter of an hour in a little beer, ale, or water, with a little whole pepper and a bit of onion; strain off the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour, beat mustard up with it, and serve it in a tureen. E