HOW TO COOK. !)1 lpint; water, Jpint; or, rice,4 oz.; cream. 4pint; eggs, 4; but- ter, 4 oz. A little salt and two teaspoonfuls of sugar may be added. When the least number of eggs is used, add more flour and milk. Boiled rice, ratifias, macaronies, and any spice or flavouring may be added; or pepper and salt, sage, parsley. Small beer is sometimes- used instead of eggs. Mix half the milk or cream with the flour, &c., beat the other half with the eggs, and mix both. Ground rice is mixed with cold water and stirred into the milk when it nearly boils; let it thicken but not boil; cool, stir in the butter, and when cold add the eggs. Rice is boiled soft, and when cold mixed with cream and eggs; stir in warm butter, and as much flour as needed. French Batter.—Two ounces of butter cut into bits, pour on it less than a quarter of a pint of water boiling; when dissolved add three quarters of a pint of water cold, so that it shall not be quite milk warm; mix by degrees smoothly with twelve ounces of fine dry flour and a small pinch of salt, if the batter be for fruit fritters, but with more if for meat or vegetables. Before used, stir it into the whites of two eggs beaten to froth; previously to this, add a little water if too thick. This is excellent for frying vegetables, and for fruit fritters. To Fry Pancakes.—Melt a little butter in a frying-pan; put in as much of the batter as will cover the bottom of the pan, and make the pancake about the thickness of a pennj^-piece or the eighth of an inch; when the batter is nearly set, shake the pan round a little, and if the pancake will move freely, turn it over, adding a little more butter; when lightly browned, turn it again, and almost immediately slip it out of the pan upon a hot dish, placed over a pan or deep dish of hot water. Roll up each pancake as it is fried, and serve while hot with sugar and lemon juice. Some prefer butter and treacle, or boiled treacle. Milk Pancakes.—Put four yolks and two whites of eggs into a pint of milk, and dredge in flour until you have a smooth light batter; add a teaspoonful of grated ginger and a glass of brandy. Well heat some butter or oil in your frying-pan, and fry your pancakes of a nice brown colour; drain them carefully from the fat, and serve with pounded and sifted sugar strewn over them. Crepes, or French Pancakes.—Well beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them into a pound of flour; add a glass of brandy, and with an equal quantity of good ale and water dilute the paste until it is of the consistency of cream; let tills remain