87 HOW TO COOK. dry, and, if possible, small frying-pan, in which melt, and bring to a good heat, half an ounce of butter or perfectly sweet salad oil. Pour in the eggs, and let them simmer in a gentle heat; some say stirring gently, but I prefer not, but turning in the edges to keep them from burning, and if the pan is too large, tipping it so as to keep the eggs at the side, until the bottom is a light brown, and the top a thin jelly. Now gently slide the omelet upon a hot plate or shallow oval dish, fold it over, so as to keep the soft part inside, and serve instantly. An omelet can be cooked in about two minutes, and should go to the table hot, the instant it is done, and just when it is wanted. When eggs are dear more milk may be used if thickened with a little corn flower or arrowroot. Chopped parsley, chopped onions, grated cheese, chopped mushrooms, &c., are put in omelets; but the onions and mush- rooms must be very fine, or previously, at least, partly cooked. A little mushroom ketchup with a plain omelet, or mushroom powder in it, gives it a good flavour. Plain Omelet.—Eggs four, butter one to two ounces. To these may be added bread crumbs two to four ounces, or bread crumbs one ounce, and mashed potatoes two ounces, or flour one ounce, or boiled rice four ounces. To any of these forms add a little salt and pepper, or cayenne, or nutmeg and mace, and milk or cream sufficient to give the whole a proper consistency. Grated cheese and French beans boiled and cut small, of each two ounces, parsley a quarter of an ounce, may be added to the beaten eggs and butter. The butter may be omitted. Savoury Omelet.—Eggs four, butter a quarter of an ounce, flour a table-spoonful, cream or milk a tea-cupful, parsley shred fine a dessert-spoonful, two middle-sized onions, boiled and shred, cayenne and salt a little of each. The -whole should be of a light consistency, and may then be either fried or baked in cups. Sweet Omelets are made the same as the first, with eggs or eggs and milk, with a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, instead of pepper, &c. Sprinkle sugar over, glaze with a salamander, and serve hot. Omelette aux Confitures is made by covering the omelet as soon as done with a layer of any kind of fruit, sweetmeats, or jam, and then turning it over as before. Omelette au Rhum.—Well beat four eggs, add two ounces of