115 HOW TO COOK. Eve's Pudding.—Apples chopped small,bread crumbs,currants, each 8 oz.; sugar 6 oz., eggs 5, well beaten. Or, apples 8 oz., bread crumbs 4 to 8 oz., currants and raisins 2 oz. each, sugar 4 to 6 oz., eggs 4 or 5, rind of a lemon grated or pared quite thin, and chopped small. Peel, core, and chop the apples small; add the bread crumbs, currants, raisins, sugar, and lemon-peel; then the eggs well beaten. Boil the pudding three hours in a buttered mould, or basin, or cloth, and serve with a sweet sauce or bake it at a moderate heat. Apple and Apricot Pudding.—Peel and cut some apples as for a tart; fill a dish three parts full, shake powdered sugar over the apples, cover them with apricot jam, then with but- ter : mix three tablespoonfuls of arrowroot with a pint of new milk, a little cream, sugar and butter; stir it over the fire till it boils; if too thick, add a little more milk: it should be j ust thick enough to run smoothly ; pour it over the apples, and let the whole stand till quite cold; then bake at a moderate heat for an hour and a half, or half this time for a small pudding. Or use marmalade instead of apricot. Persian Pudding.—Take the pulp of six baked apples; add one ounce of rice boiled in milk, and beaten smooth, one ounce of sifted sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; mix; then beat the whites of four eggs to a fine froth, put in the other ingredients, whisk it all up; put in a warm mould, and place it in a tolerably quick oven; when pro- perly set, turn it out and pour round it a custard made with the yolks of the eggs. Fruit and Arrowroot Pudding.—Beat up three eggs with a tablespoonful of arrowroot, pour a pint and a half of boiling milk, stirring it briskly, then pour it into a dish over any fruit, apples, pears, currants, &c., as may suit the palate; bake im- mediately. Swiss Pudding.—Put a pint each of fine bread-crumbs and minced apples in alternate layers into a well-buttered pie-dish, with a sprinkling of chopped blanched almonds, currants, and sugar between each layer; pour in three ounces of fresh butter previously melted, dust over the top with more bread-crumbs, and bake for half an hour. Apple Dumplings.—Pare and core some baking apples, with- out dividing them; fill up the space made by coring with sugar and lemon-peel; cover each apple with a thin paste, and boil