IIOW TO COOIC. 16 article for its percentage of nutriment. A comparison of prices will readily show what food is most economical. Fish has about the same percentage as beef and mutton, but varies widely in the proportions of musculine and fat, from the skate, nearly pure muscle to the eel, more than half fat. I have said “ flesh forming” and “fat forming,” but nature seems to have a wonderful power of transforming substances The nitrogenous elements enter into the formation of skin membranes, tendons, and nerves, as well as muscle; and animal heat is now believed to be the result of the destruction of muscle and nerve matter, as well as fat. Starch is converted into sugar, and sugar into fat. Professor Johnstone, one of the latest and best authorities on food, in his “ Chemistry of Common Life,” gives many facts in addition to those in the above table. lie says the bran of wheat contains 18 per cent, of gluten; fine flour only 10 per cent. Figs, as they come in boxes, contain more nutri- ment than wheaten bread. The perfectly dry gooseberry is as nutritive as wheat flour. Dry cabbage leaf contains 35 per cent, of gluten, and is therefore one of the most nutritious of vegetable substances, but it needs to be eaten or mixed with potatoes, rice, or other fat or starchy kinds of food. Fish, perfectly dried, contains from 44 (in the fat eel) to 97 (in the skate), per cent, of musculine, or flesh and tissue forming element of food. Dried flesh contains 84 per cent. KINDS AND QUALITIES OF FOOD, AND MODES OF PREPARATION. In selecting food for our tables, we should seek what is most healthful—that is, what will best satisfy both our taste and the requirements of the system. For both appetite and health we need a certain variety, not only at each meal, but from dav to day. There are but few articles of food of which we do not grow tired by constant use. Happily, those which wear best with us are best for us. There should also be a certain harmony in the articles we group together on the table; a harmony of contrast, as well as agreement. Avoid two vegetables nearly alike. If you have cabbage, you do not want spinach, Brussels sprouts, kail, or brocoli. And consider what kind of lighter or more watery vegetables will taste best with your principal dish.