50 HOW TO COOK clean; boil in plenty of water and a little salt until tender, and serve like other greens, plain with vinegar, or chopped with butter, flour, and vinegar, or piquant sauce. Excellent and healthful. Vegetable Marrows may be first parboiled, then drained, dipped in batter, or bread crumbs and egg, and fried in butter. Green Peas are nicest boiled in a very little water, with a little salt and sugar; mint, if you like it. Boil till tender, and serve with butter. Slewed Green Peas.—Put a quart of green peas, a lettuce and an onion cut in slices, in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, but no water; stew gently an hour; then stir in a well-beaten egg and half a teaspoonful of pow- dered sugar; they must not boil after adding the egg, but, when nicely thickened, serve. Green Peas, when most plentiful, may be dried before the fire above the range, or in shallow pans in an open oven not too hot; and then soaked out and cooked as above, or used in soups, &c. Ripe Peas may be soaked, or parboiled, and freed from their shells, and then stewed or baked like haricot beans, or made into a thick porridge, or soup. Split Peas, freed from their shells, are most convenient for use. They vary very much in respect to the time required in boiling. A little soda in the water hastens the process. Some are said to boil more quickly by being put in boiling water. Broad Beans should be boiled alone like peas, and quickly served, with parsley and butter. If thrown into cold water, the skins being rubbed off, then heat with sauce and serve. French and Kidney Beans.—Head, tail, and string them; cut them down in thin strips, or in the middle; throw them into boiling water, in which a little more salt than usual has been put; boil tender, and serve either plain or with parsley and but- ter, and a little pepper and salt, and sugar. Haricots, or Small White Beans, are among the most nu- tritious of vegetables, far exceeding any kind of animal food. They require long cooking, the longer the better. When baked, they are left in the oven overnight, with great improvement of flavour. They should first be well parboiled with plenty cf