66 HOW TO COOK. Boiled Herrings.—Clean and dry the fish, rub a little salt over them, wash them over with vinegar, lay them carefully on the fish-plate, and put them into the kettle when the water boils. Ten or twelve minutes will cooktliem. Let them drain; serve with parsley and butter. Baked Herrings, Pilchards, or Sprats.—Clean the fish, and clear them of scales with wiping them; do not use water. Beat up and mix together allspice, black pepper, and salt. Arrange the fish in a pie-disli or pan, with a few cloves and a little bit of onion, and sprinkle the seasoning between every layer of fish. Cover them with half vinegar and half table-beer; tie them down with paper, and bake them in a slow oven. Boiled Mackerel.—Draw and wash the mackerel; place them side by side on the fish-plate, and put them into boiling water, from five to ten minutes ; put in fennel, parsley, and mint, in separate bunches, long enough to make them tender. Chop them separately very fine and quickly, and put them in the side-oven, or in some place where they will keep very hot, while the mackerel is dished. Place the mackerel side by side on the dish, and arrange the green in lumps around. Serve it with melted butter. Fried Mackerel.—Clean the mackerel, cut them open, and brush them over with egg beaten up. Mix crumbs of bread, parsley, chives and lemon thyme minced very fine, pepper and salt, cover the fish with this seasoning, and fry them. Serve with melted butter or plain. Some like them done with egg and bread-crumbs, without the herbs. Broiled Mackerel.—Clean the fish, cut off their heads, and draw out the roes, without opening them. Boil the roes and beat them with the yolk of an egg, a little nutmeg, a bit of lemon-peel minced fine, minced thyme and parsley, salt, pep- per, and some crumbs of bread. Stuff the fish with this force- meat, putting it in where the heads were cut off, flour them and broil them over a clear fire, taking care that they are well done through. Serve them with melted butter, and walnut or mush- room ketchup. Fricasseed Skate.—When the skate is cleaned and skinned, put it into a stew-pan, with "water, allowing a quarter of a pint of water to every pound of fish; put in a bunch of sweet herbs and a little mace, nutmeg, and salt. Cover the stew-pan close,