HOW TO COOK. G3 simmer gently for two hours, drain from the liquor, and serve on a napkin, in a bed of green parsley. Water and vinegar may be used instead of wine. To Cook Kippered Salmon.—Cut it into pieces of convenient size, wrap them in buttered writing-paper, and broil them. It does not take many minutes to cook. Or, make a wall of mashed potatoes round a dish. Have hard-boiled eggs largely chopped, divide the salmon into flakes, put both into half a pint of rich new milk, thicken with butter rolled in flour, stir it until it boils, and pour it into the dish with the potatoes round: or, toast the salmon. Place it in a basin with the cut side downwards, pour boiling water over it: if salt be objected to, repeat the process, place it on a dish the right side up- wards, and put butter on it before the fire; or, lay the pieces in a dish over night, with a little salad oil poured over them, and in the morning, with the oil remaining in the dish, fry the salmon lightly; or, soak the salmon for three or four hours, broil it, and pepper it slightly as it cooks. Boiled Cod, Ling, Hake, Haddock.—Wash, and rub it with vinegar. Put in warm water, salt, and vinegar A good-sized head and shoulders takes half an hour. It must not boil so briskly as to crack the skin. Serve on a napkin with melted butter, or any sauce preferred, as lobster, shrimp, anchovy, caper. See Sauces. Crimped Cod.—Boil in slices two inches thick in water well salted a few minutes. Take out and drain; flour them, and broil slowly. Any good sauce. Fried Cod.—Next to the head and shoulders cut collops for frying, two inches thick. Wash, and dry them in a cloth. Put egg and bread-crumbs over them; let the fat in the pan boil, and fry the slices of cod of 5, bright brown, and well cooked through. Salt Cod.—Put the cod in water the night before it is wanted, and let it soak all night. Boil it, lay it in a dish, separate the flakes, pour egg sauce over it, and send it up very hot. Or, instead of the egg sauce, boil parsnips quite tender, mash them with butter, cream, or milk, and spread them round the salt fish. If the cod be very dry soak it for several hours, lay it out to dry in a cold place, and then soak it again for a number of hours; this double soaking is said to soften the driest fish.