HOW TO COOK. 49 Stewed Cabbage or Savoys.—Cut in thin slices, wash, drain, and boil till tender; drain them free from water; put into a clean pot two ounces of butter or fat, and a little salt and pep- per; when hot add the cabbage, and stir it well until nearly dry, then throw over a tablespoonful of flour, keep stirring, and then add a cupful of either broth, milk, or water, let boil ten minutes, and serve. Cole Slaw.—One egg, one teaspoon sugar, half teaspoon maize flour or arrowroot, half teacup sweet milk, half teacup vinegar, piece of butter the size of a walnut, a firm head of cabbage. Shred very finely as much of the cabbage as will be required, and place it in dish. Beat the egg, sugar, flour, and butter thoroughly together, then add the milk, lastly, the vine- gar. Let this come to the boil in a lined saucepan, and when cold, pour over the cabbage, and serve. Chopped celery may be added when seasonable. Brocoli and Cauliflower should be put in salt and water some time before cooking, and require close examination that no insects are inside; cut off the root and the large leaves; put in boiling water; it will take about ten minutes. Serve plain, or with melted butter, egg sauce, or salad sauce. Cauliflower, or Brocoli with Cheese.—Boil two or three middle- sized cauliflowers; make half a pint of thick melted butter; grate, or chip in four ounces of good cheese; mix well with the sauce, and, when boiling, pour it over the brocoli; set in the oven or before the fire to brown lightly, and serve. Jerusalem artichokes, Scotch kail, Brussels sprouts, are nice this way. Spinach requires to be well washed, and the stalks picked off; boil with a very little water for ten minutes; take out, drain, press with the hands or plate to remove the water, and serve it as plain greens; or put it on a clean board, and chop it fine, put it in a stew-pan, with a little good butter, salt, flour; place it on the fire, with a little milk or broth, for a few minutes, and serve with toast round. Good with cream. Nettles.—Wash, drain, put in plenty of boiling water, with a little salt; boil about twenty minutes, drain, and serve like spinach, or with a gravy of a little skim milk, butter, sugar, salt, and pepper. Dandelions.—Take the leaves any time before full blossom- ing, and about an inch of the root; wash thoroughly and pick r>