124 HOW TO COOK. strawberries in layers, eacb layer of berries covered witb sugar, and strawberries atop. Fruit Creams.—Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in warm water enough to cover it; add this to a pint of cream and four spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it. When cool, place the preserved apricots, strawberries, &c., in a jelly dish, and pour the cream over. Rdgrod.—(A Scandinavian Dessert.) Put on the fire in a lined pan three and a half pints of currant, or any sour fruit juice, two pints of water, sugar to sweeten, and almonds, cin- namon, or any flavouring liked. When it boils, stir in one pound of sago or one and a quarter pounds of rice flour, made into a paste. Boil fifteen minutes, stirring often, and pour into wet moulds. When cold, serve with cream and sugar. MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS. * Milk is the first food of all the higher classes of the animal creation; and as it is formed of the blood, and contains all its elements, it has in it all that is required for the nourishment and growth of the young animal, oil, sugar, caseine, &c. Milk is good food for age as well as childhood, and enters, as we have seen, into the composition of a vast number of dishes. The milk of the cow is chiefly used, but the milk of goats, sheep, camels, asses, and horses is also used. Good milk can only be produced by healthy animals living upon their natural food, and in good health conditions. Better the milk of a healthy cow than that of a sickly nurse. Milk sold in towns is generally robbed of its cream, diluted with water, and sometimes adulterated with oatmeal, chalk, brains, &c. The best milk is that of a young cow, unmixed with any other—one that lives in good air, has good water, and lives chiefly on grass and-hay. Milk is now evaporated with a small proportion of sugar to the thickness of batter, and sold in air-tight cans. The flavour is slightly changed; but it is excellent for cookery, and can be used as thick and rich as cream. Cream contains the oily par- ticles of the milk, and enriches countless dishes. Whipped like eggs to a froth, it is poured over fruit and puddings. When the butter is separated by churning, the buttermilk left * See Advertisement of English Condensed Milk Company.