1C3 HOW TO COOK. Mush, Stirabout, Porridge, Hasty Pudding.—These are best made of the rather coarsely ground meals of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and Indian com. The best way with all but oatmeal, is to have your own mill, which will cost from six to twenty shillings, and grind your own grain. In this way yo.u can have it as coarse or line as you like, and always fresh and sweet. Have the water boiling over a good lire, with a little salt. Take a handful of meal and sprinkle it in, stirring it well with a large spoon or pudding stick into the boiling water. Go on until it is of the consistence of thin paste. Then let it boil; for oatmeal, five minutes; for wheat or rye, ten minutes; barley, fifteen minutes; Indian corn, twenty minutes. If coarse, a little longer. It should now be nearly thick enough to serve. If too thick, thin with boiling water; and, in any case, stir in thoroughly just enough meal to bring it to the proper consistence, that is, just so stiff as not to run, or so that a light stick will stand in it. In two or three minutes it may be turned on a dish, served without a cover, and eaten with brown sugar and milk, golden syrup, stewed apple, or stewed prunes, and milk, sugar, and butter; any combination you may fancy. Indian meal, as it requires more cooking, is best with- out tlie last addition of meal, and is most commonly eaten with butter and treacle. Coarse meal, called hominy, requires more time. Some cookbooks talk of boiling wheat mush an hour or more. This is a mistake. More than twenty minutes cooking gives it a raw taste and a pasty consistence. A dish of rather coarse wheat mush (wlieaten grits) once a-day ensures sufficient and the best kind of nutrition, and is a perfect safeguard against constipation. How to Boil Bice.—Wash a pound of rice, and throw it into a quart of boiling water; boil for ten minutes, or until each grain is rather soft, but separate; drain it in a colander, put it back in a pot which you have slightly greased with butter, let it swell slowly near the fire, or in the oven, until wanted. A little butter may be added; each grain will then swell up, and be well separated. Oatmeal Gruel.—Take two teaspoonfuls oatmeal, one cup raisins, one tablespoonful white sugar, a little nutmeg. Mix the oatmeal with a little cold water and salt; add the raisins; let it boil up and skim it well. Add the sugar and flavouring; one glass of wine if liked. Gingerbread Aperient.—Gingerbread, made with oatmeal or