96 HOW TO COOK. tion of the starch of the flour is converted by fermentation into carbonic acid gas. This fermentation is hastened by mixing with the flour-fermenting substances, as barm, brewers’ yeast, German yeast, &c. The dough, containing a small portion of these substances, is kept in a warm place, about as warm as new milk, until it rises, when it is made into loaves and baked. A little sugar stirred into yeast will restore its strength. Sour dough may be sweetened by working in twenty to forty grains of carbonate of magnesia to a pound of flour. Yeast may be made in this way:—Stir one pound of wheat- flour, or half a pound of flour and half a pound of boiled potatoes, into a gallon of cold water; boil the whole twenty minutes; then, if flour only has been used, add four ounces of coarse sugar; keep the mixture in a warm place two or three days, then pass it through a sieve, and pour it into a stone jug for future use. The jug should be well corked, and kept in a cool place. If a little yeast can be procured, it may be added when the mixture is nearly cool; let it stand all night in a warm place, then stir it up well, and pour it into the jug. Milk Yeast.—Put one teaspoonful loaf sugar, two-thirds spoonful line salt, and one cup new milk, into an earthen jug, and pour in one pint of water, which should be boiling. When this is blood warm, add flour to make a thin batter. Keep at the same heat for five hours, either near the fire or in a dish of warm water. Potato Yeast.—Boil three large potatoes, and mash them fine; stir into them one cup of flour, one tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonful brown sugar, one quart of boiling water, then add a cup of yeast when the mixture is lukewarm. When well-fermented, cork tightly, and keep in a cool place. A tablespoonful to a small loaf of bread. Domestic Yeast.—Boil one pound of good flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water, for one hour. When milk warm, bottle it, and cork it close. It will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. One pint of this yeast will make eighteen pounds of bread. Leavened Bread.—Flour or meal, eight pounds; leaven, three ounces, or yeast, two large teaspoonfuls, or German yeast, two ounces; warm water, one pint; salt, one dessert spoonful. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, break in the leaven, add the w'ater, and stir in about half the meal or