83 HOW TO COOK. season with the mace, and stir five minutes. When the crust is done, remove the cover, pour in the oysters and their gravy, replace the cover (minus plate), and serve immediately. Turbot Pie.—Parboil the turbot. Cut the meat into pieces of convenient size, and season them with pepper, salt, cloves, and nutmeg. Roll them over in parsley, chives, and sweet basil minced very fine; arrange them in your pie-dish with yolks of eggs round, and some gravy; put pieces of butter over, cover with a crust and bake in an oven which is not too quick. Any large, and not too oily fish may be done in the same fashion. Sole or Flounder Pie.—Clean, wash, and dry the fish. Par- boil them in as little water as will do, and cut the flesh clean from the bones. Lay some butter at the bottom of the dish, place the pieces of fish in order, and season them with pepper and salt. Boil the bones in the water in which the fish was parboiled, with parsley, lemon-peel, and a crust of bread. Let it boil down until there is only enough to make gravy for the pie; it should be strong enough to jelly when cold. Pour half over the fish, cover it with a crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. When it is taken out of the oven, fill it up with the gravy which remains, pouring it in at the hole in the centre of the pie by means of a small funnel. Herring Pie.—Clean and dry the herrings, and cut off their heads, fins, and tails. Season with mace, pepper, and salt; put some butter in the bottom of a pie dish, lay in the herrings, then some apples and onions sliced very thin, lay on a little more butter, pour in a little water, cover with a crust, and bake well. Fish Pudding.—Take two pounds of cod fish, cut in slices about the size of five shilling pieces, half an inch thick; fill the bowl with the paste, as usual, lay some of the fish on the bottom, season with salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley, onions, a little flour and pieces of the liver, if any, then the fish, and so on until full; add a gill of milk or water, shake it well, tie up, and boil one hour, and serve. A little bay leaf and thyme may be added, if handy. All fish may be done the same way, varying the flavour ac- cording to taste. Fish Pudding, a Plainer Way.—Cut one pound of any fish in small pieces, season with salt and pepper on a dish; add a