90 HOW TO COOK. ing milk, be sure the milk boils, bake immediately in a quick oven half an hour. Corn starch may be substituted for arrow root. Rice Custards—Boil two or three bay-leaves and some bits of cinnamon and lemon peel in a quart of new milk; rub down a great spoonful of ground rice in a little cold milk, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, gradually mix it with the boiled milk, straining the latter; put it over the tire in a saucepan, stir it gently until it thickens, pour it iuto a dish, stir in a spoonful of brandy, and, when cold, either put a whipped cream upon the top or serve in glass cups. Rice Custards without Rggs.—Take seven teacupfuls of new milk and one teacupful of whole rice: put it into a bain-marie, or in a jar placed to stand in a pot of boiling water, which must be kept boiling until the rice is boiled perfectly smooth; then sweeten it with pounded loaf-sugar; mix in two ounces of blanched sweet almonds beaten to a paste, and when cold, put it into your cups and serve. Rose Custards.—Take six ounces of dressed beetroot; pound it in a mortar until perfectly smooth; add enough rose water to make it pass through a sieve; strain into it the whites of three eggs, beaten, and a pint of thick cream; stir it over the lire until sufficiently thick; then serve in custard-cups or in a glass dish. PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. Pancakes are made of batter, and fried in thin cakes of any convenient size, say four to six inches in diameter, served hot, and eaten with butter and sugar, or some prefer golden syrup or well-boiled and clarified treacle. One of the favourite American breakfast dishes is pancakes made of the flour of buckwheat, made in a thin batter, raised with yeast or baking powder, and fried, either in a slightly buttered frying-pan, or on a soapstone (Scotch) griddle. The nicest sauce is the maple sugar syrup. The batter for pancakes should be of the consistency of cream, and should be well beaten up at the time it is used; but it may best be made an hour or two before it is fried. Pancake Batter.—Flour, 4 oz.; eggs, 1 to 4; milk or cream, i to i a pint; or ground rice 4 oz.; eggs, 1 to 4; milk or cream