HOW TO COOK. 70 and the fat, butter, or oil, about two lines deep, made very- hot. Place the steak, or chop, in the fat for a minute; then turn it, and let it stay three minutes; turn again, salting and peppering each time, and when it has been turned three or four times it will be done—say in ten to twenty minutes, ac- cording to the thickness. The object in heating quickly at first, and then turning often, both in broiling and frying, is to suddenly form a coating of coagulated albumen on the surface of the meat, so as to keep in all its juice and flavour. Done in this way, a Med steak or chop is nearly as good as a broiled one. ROASTING AND BASING. Roasting is governed by the same principles as broiling and frying. All dark meats should first be put near the fire for fifteen minutes; then moved back and allowed to do gently. Fowls should be first set close to the fire to set the skin; then well buttered, and moved back. When the gravy begins to appear, dredge with flour, which forms a hard crust and helps to retain it. Fifteen pounds of beef require three and a-lialf to four hours, twenty inches from a good fire; ten pounds, two and a-half hours, eighteen inches from a good fire; six pounds, one and a-half hours, fourteen inches from the fire. Veal, mutton, lamb, require less time than beef. In roasting of beef, mutton, lamb, pork, and poultry, place a dripping-pan under the meat, with a little clear dripping or fat for basting. A quarter of an hour before serving add half a pint of water to the fat in the dripping-pan; dredge the meat with flour and salt. When the meat is dished up, pour the contents of the pan into a basin, straining it through a gauze sieve kept on purpose; remove all the fat, add a little colouring and salt if needed to the gravy, and pour it into the dish under the meat. Yeal and poultry should have half the quantity of water put in the pan, and that, when strained, added to half a pint of thick melted butter, adding two teaspoonfuls of any sauce for flavour. In baking meats the same principles must be observed as in roasting. Large joints require ten or twelve minutes to the pound in a quick oven, and longer in a slow one. A slow oven and a long bake is preferred for some joints; but where there