121 HOW TO COOK. core, without peeling; flour a little, or dip in thin batter, and fry in nice oil or butter. Apple Sauce.—Pare, divide, and core some apples; stew them in a very little water, and when sufficiently done pulp them through a sieve. A little sugar, butter, and lemon-peel may be added. Buttered Apples.—Peel, slice, and core one pound of apples; put into a frying-pan about two ounces of butter; add the apple, and cover over with two ounces of pounded sugar; put them in the oven until done. Dished up on a nice crisp piece of toast, with sugar over. Apple Marmalade.—Peel and core two pounds sub-acid apples, and put them in an enamelled saucepan, with one pint of sweet cider, or half a pint of pure wine, and one pound of crushed sugar, and cook them by a gentle heat three hours or longer; until the fruit is very soft; and then squeeze it, first through a colander and then through a sieve. If not sufficiently sweet, add powdered sugar to suit your taste, and put away in jars, made air-tight by a piece of wet bladder. Oateau de Pommes, (Apple Cake).—Take half a pound of lump-sugar,put it to half a pint of water; let it boil till quite dissolved, and ready to candy; then add one pound of apples, pared and cored, and the peel of half a lemon. Boil it together till it is quite stiff; then put it into a mould, and when it is cold it will turn out. Serve it with thick custard round it. Apples in Jelly.—Pare twelve apples, which should be tart and well-shaped, dropping them into cold water as they are pared; place them in preserving pan, with water to half cover them; when softened on the lower side turn them, and remove them to jelly dish so soon as quite cooked; place them stem downwards; add a pound of sugar, and juice and grated rind of a lemon to the water, and boil until it jellies; pour over the apples, let it stand to set, and serve cold. Baked Pears.—Pare and cut in halves twelve pears; leave on the stems, but cut out the cores; put them in a covered jar; add a small lemon, in slices, three cloves, six allspice, and water to cover the whole, with one half pound of sugar to the pint. Cover close, and bake five or six hours in a very slow oven. Stewed Pears.—Take six large pears, well ripe; cut in two