31) HOW TO COOK. ketchup, are also much used for seasoning. The milder of the sauces sold at the shops present us some good flavours, if we could depend upon their composition or genuineness. Onions are fried or baked with butter, brown sugar, and vinegar, until they are flat, nearly dry, and quite black. They can be bought in this condition, and used to both colour and flavour soups, stews, &c. Almonds are peeled or blanched by putting them in cold water, bringing them nearly to the boil, then peeling and throwing them into cold water. Dry, and when required, pound them in a mortar to a paste, using a few drops of water. Rinds of lemons and oranges, vanilla pods, cinnamon, mace, &c., may be simmered in the milk used for custards, puddings, &c., to extract their flavour. Sweet herbs and the more fleeting aromas had best be added rather late in the process of cookery, to prevent their being dissipated by heat. Coffee and chocolate are sometimes used to flavour puddings, ice-creams, &c. Flavours should harmonise with each other, and with the article with which they are used; and not more than one of the same kind should enter into any combination. Too many spices, as well as too many cooks, spoil the broth. England’s “ one sauce,” which is the basis of a. hundred more, is “ melted butter,” or, as some call it, “ drawn butter.” Melted Butter.—Two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter of an ounce of pepper or less, mix together with a spoon, put in a quart pan with a pint of cold water; place it on the fire and stir continually. Take it off when it begins to simmer, add an ounce more of butter, stir till melted, when it is ready for use. More butter will make it richer, less butter plainer and cheaper. Melted butter is im- proved by a dash of lemon juice or vinegar. Many sauces are made with melted butter by the addition of flavouring articles. Anchovy Sauce.—Add to half a pint of melted butter—or drawn butter—two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovies. Mix in a saucepan, stir and serve when nearly boiling. In the same way make Harvey' Sauce, Soyer’s Relish Sauce, Yorkshire Sauce, &c. For sweet sauce add sugar; for saucepiquante, vinegar. Chili Sauce.—Three teaspoonfuls of Chili vinegar to half a pint of melted butter.