32 HOW TO COOK. Where much wine, or beer, or spirits are drunk at table, people are not in a condition to observe their own feelings, and the stomach is more likely to be gorged. So stimulating condiments provoke an artificial appetite, and prevent the sense of satiety, which should warn us that we have eaten enough. People who find they are liable to eat too much, either from carelessness or a morbid appetite, should, before beginning a meal, lay out the proper quantity, and never exceed it. When there-are several courses it is well to know what they are, in order to make the proper apportionment. The times of eating are of considerable importance. Some people live on one meal a day. The Romans ate but one set meal a day. One meal and a small collation is the strict rule of Lent. In England many eat five meals a day. The French take a cup of coffee and a little bread early in the morning— say at 7; at 11 or 12 they eat a good breakfast of soup, bread, meat, and vegetables; and dine from 5 to 7. In England the upper and middle classes eat a breakfast of tea, coffee, or cho- colate, bread, eggs, fish, ham, bacon, chops, or steak, at 8 or 9 a.m. Lunch of hot or cold meats, pies, puddings, tarts, at 1 or 2 p.m. At 5 o’clock tea before dinner, or one quickly following it; dinner from 6 to 8, consisting of soup, fish, joints of meat, poultry, game, pastry, dessert, ciieese; supper at 10 to 12, of heavy meats and pastry, all washed down with plenty of ale, port, or sherry. In America the breakfasts are more varied and heartier than in England—hot cakes, fish and fish cakes, steak, chops, eggs, oysters, fruit. The other meals much as in England, and dyspeptics more plentiful. What to eat, for careful and economical livers, I have tried to point out in “ How to Live on Sixpence a-Day;” and in this book will be found an abundant, and some may think too abundant, variety. But I have wished to suit a wide range of tastes, opinions, and purses. It becomes necessary, therefore, to point out to delicate persons and invalids, and to all who do not wish to become such, what to avoid. Avoid all food, unhealthy in its own character, or in bad condition; as diseased or stale fruit, vegetables, fish and flesh. Sour milk, and pretty ripe cheese, do not seem to be unhealthy. Pork in any form is worse than doubtful. It is a coarse and greasy food; and cheap as it may be, never worth its price in nutriment. I -quite agree with the Jews and Mahommedans about it. Salted and smoked meat and fish are hard of diges-