HOW TO COOK. 74 sides of the chop lightly with it. Chopped mushrooms are very good with broiled chops. Auy fleshy part of the sheep may be broiled the same way. Mutton Chops.—Cut three-quarters of an inch thick, leaving half an inch of fat round them, and broil over a clear fire for ten minutes, turning four times, sprinkle with salt and pepper, serve on a hot plate, one at a time, with a nice mealy potato. One and a half teaspoonful of salt and a half of pepper to a pound of chops. Mutton Cutlets.—Cut the chop from the neck nicely, and remove the bone at the thick part; then beat up the yolk and white of an egg, with a pinch of salt; have ready some bread- crumbs, made from stale bread, and sifted; beat out the cut- lets with a small chopper, dip them or rub them with a brush with the egg, place some of the bread-crumbs on a plate, and lay the cutlet on them; press them; serve both sides the same, and shake off all loose crumbs; have the fat in the pan quite hot, lay them in it; when nicely browned on one side, turn them over, and do the other side the same; take them out, lay them on a cloth, so that no fat remains; serve with any made sauce. Lamb Chops should be cut not more than half an inch thick, and broiled before the fire very close and quick; they will take from eight to ten minutes. Throw some pepper and salt over, and serve very hot, with fried parsley round them, if handy. Beefsteak in Baking Pan.—Take two pounds of beefsteak, which cut in pieces the size of walnuts, but only half an inch thick; peel two pounds of potatoes, cut in slices a quarter of an inch thick; two middling-sized onions sliced; mix two tea- spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper. Then lay five or six slices of potatoes on the bottom of the pan, season them, add some pieces of beef; season again, then potatoes and onions, then beef, until the pan is full, potatoes on the top, seasoning each time; pour in three quarters of a pint of water, cover close, bake for one hour and a half; when done shake the pot gently, that the gravy may mix with the potatoes and onions, and form a nice thick sauce. Skirt or any other part of beef is excellent. Vary the flavour by adding two onions or more for those fond of onions, and the judicious use of two cloves, or one blade of mace, or six peppercorns, or a teaspoonful of powdered ginger. Or with herbs, two small bay-leaves, two sprigs of fresh thyme, or some winter savoury, or lemon