12 HOW TO COOK. liquid. In pure water we cannot go above 212° Fahrenheit. All the fire in the world will not make water hotter, or things cook quicker. Therefore all fire beyond what is just necessary to keep the pot boiling is wasted. Boiling salt water is hotter than fresh. Boiling oil has a heat much greater. In boiling substances liable to catch to the bottom or sides of the kettle and burn, great care is required to stir them, or keep the kettle at a moderate heat. A better way is to have a double boiler—one kettle or sauce pan within another, with an inch or more space all round between them. If this outer space is filled with water, kept boiling, the water in the inner vessel will be kept at the simmering point. If the outer water be saturated with salt, the inner will boil. Fill up with boil- ing water as it evaporates. Many substances cook best in a moderate heat, taking more time. Count Rumford found that a shoulder of veal left by accident in a scarcely more than warm oven all night had become perfectly cooked, and was more tender and savoury than if done in a hot oven. An egg should never be boiled in boiling water. The white is too hard, the yolk too soft. When a pot or kettle has been once raised to the boiling point it can be set aside, and merely kept simmering. Or it may be enveloped in some non-conducting material. One small furnace may in this way cook a large dinner, by beginning with the dishes which require most time. Soups and stews are best made at the seething or simmering point of heat, only the process must have time. In high mountainous regions, liquids boil at lower temperatures than at the level of the sea, and of course all boiled dishes require a longer time for cooking. Whatever knowledge one may have, skill in cooking must be acquired by experience. Most things have to be done “ by the rule of thumb;” by good judgment, good guessing, or intuition. Some women are said to always have good luck with their baking. How is one to know when an oven is sufficiently hot? An experienced cook puts in her hand, and tells at once. For the rest we must look, feel, smell, taste— use all our senses. The colour of a roast, boil, or fry, tells its condition: we smell a scorch or burn; we try vegetables, fish, or meat, with fork or skewer; we must taste ragouts, gravies, sauces, &c., to get the right flavour. Bread or cake is baked when no dough adheres to the instrument that pierces it. A