HOW TO COOK. 135 the raid-day meal ought to be—delicate, pleasant, appetising and so easy of digestion as not to interrupt the day’s work. The fashion of a five o’clock tea before dinner I cannot think a good one. There should be an interval of five or six hours between meals; and many persons are much better for eating only twice in the twenty-four hours. Three times ought to suffice for all but very yoimg children, who are growing fast, and have quick digestions. If tea before dinner does not spoil the appetite it must hurt the digestion, English dinners are too formal, too slow, and in both mat- ter and manner, too oppressive. I like much better the gay little festivals one enjoys in every French family, even those of very humble means. First of all, they are so jolly. Parents, children, friends, all lay aside every care; they are full of sparkling wit and affectionate drollery, and the one female servant, who has cooked an exquisite dinner at half the cost of a very bad one in some other places, also brings it in, all smiling in her clean cap and apron, and each successive dish, passed round and eaten by itself, is just what should succeed the last, and prepare for the next. The meal goes on smoothly and gaily. There is just enough of each dish to go round, and nothing to waste. At the end every taste has been pleased and every appetite satisfied. Every Frenchwoman and, I believe, every Frenchman also, knows how to cook; it seems natural to them. And just as natural, that is habitual, is their economy. They buy in small quantities precisely what they want, and no more. A lady, cirrying her basket, or accompanied by her bonne, picks and cheapens through the market, or the trusty servant does it for ha\ It is the same with the cooking; just enough fire is used, and no more. Where an English cook burns half-a- hundredof coals to roast herself and spoil a dinner, a French cook uses a few handfuls of charcoal, and cooks it deliciously. The result is that the French nation expends in the two items of food aid fuel about half as much as the English and Ameri- cans, witi better results. And this is one reason why the great bocy of the French people have money to lend the governmeit, take up national loans, and pay off war in- demnities. And this is not despicable economy. What we save in oui food we save in health. The difference between a few costly meals and cheaper and even better ones, would buy us books, jictures, things to give us lasting delight. And if we live in a more economical fashion, which may be really