17 HOW TO COOK. When you do not have meat, or fish, or eggs, let one of your vegetable dishes be of a substantial and especially nutri- tious character, as peas, beans, lentils, macaroni, cabbage. If the early part of a meal is somewhat meagre, you can make up for it by a richer desert. A good pudding of bread, tapioca, or rice, with milk and eggs, or cheese, of itself affords sufficient nourishment. When you have fixed upon the pivotal dish of each meal or course, it is easy to select the lighter articles that make up the group, but this must be left to the taste of those most con- cerned. I propose to give a list of articles of food which go to make a healthy, economical, and tasteful dietary, and notice some of their combinations. We will begin with our most common and cheapest food— roots and tubers; as, turnips, carrots, parsnips, beets, potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, salsify, radishes. When taken from the ground, roots should not be cleansed from the earth. They keep better with their skins protected, and small root fibres uninjured. When about to be cooked they must be carefully washed, but the beet root must not be scraped, nor its small fibres broken. Turnips are peeled, and large ones cut into quarters. Old potatoes may be scored round or partly peeled, and it is well to soak them a few hours in cold water. Turnips and parsnips, if withered, are also the better for being soaked. The French and Swedish turnips, such as are grown for cattle, if of a moderate size, are excellent for the table, and have a finer flavour for soups than the common English turnip. The nutritive character of the turnip is shown in its being so largely used to give weight to sheep and cattle. Carrots contain sugar, starch, gluten, albumen, and are excellent food for horses and men. They are also used for flavouring soups, &c„ and are sometimes used in puddings and pies. Parsnips, though not so digestible as carrots, have nearly the same character. They are in best flavour—first boiled, and then broiled, or fried. Beet contains a large proportion of sugar, with albumen, fibrine, &c., about 15 per cent, of nutriment. In England it is used mostly as a mere garnish and in salads; and as the demand is small, the price is absurdly high. It should be nearly as cheap as the ruta baga, or as turnips, and is a healthy B