HOW TO COOK. 73 Saddle of Mutton.—Mind that the meat has been well hung. See that the butcher cuts off the flap and the chump end; he should also take off the skin, and skewer it on again to prevent the meat scorching; if this is neglected, a sheet of paper should be put over it before it is put down to roast. Twenty minutes before the meat is done, take off the skin or paper, baste the meat, and dredge it with flour, and sprinkle a little salt over it. Serve up good gravy and currant jelly. It will be done, if a moderate size, in two hours and a half. When done, lay the kidneys at the end. Loin of Veal.—Carefully paper the kidney fat of this deli- cate part of the calf; roast and baste it nicely about three hours. Serve up with melted butter. This joint well deserves the greatest care of the cook, being beyond all question the greatest delicacy of the veal kind. Breast of Veal.—The caul should be kept on the meat until it is nearly done, when it should be taken off: the meat should be floured, basted, and frothed. Veal Sweetbread.—Parboil it, let it get cool, and roast it. Or, if you like, egg and bread-crumb it, and roast it. Serve with melted butter and mushroom ketchup. To Cool't Toitfih Beefsteak.—Broil the steak nicely, saving the juice that flows from the meat while broiling. Then cut the meat into small pieces, removing the bone, skin, and a part of the fat. Put the pieces in a basin, adding the meat juice and a little boiling water. Cover the basin closely, place it in the steamer, and cook till perfectly tender. Just before removing it from the fire, thicken the gravy with a little flour or corn-flour, and season with salt, a little pepper, a small piece of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of tomato ketchup. Fried Steak.—A steak may first be dipped in flour, and well shaken; then, with a little fat or butter, fry it to a nice brown. Yeal cutlets, mutton chops, poultry and game, may be done in the same manner. Or, when your steak is partly done, dredge both sides over with a spoonful of flour, dish up, pour out the fat, put a gill of water in the pan; let it simmer a few minutes,—it will make a nice thick sauce. Mutton Chops.—These may be cooked and flavoured., like steaks, but garlic is sometimes used instead of eschalot/ Peel a clove of garlic, put it on the end of a fork, and rub both