HOW TO COOK. 80 in its turn, depends upon air, light, cleanliness, exercise, recreation, and good food, taken at proper times and in proper quantities. Our food should be pure, healthy in its own character, free from noxious adulteration, adapted to the requirements of the human system; bland, unirritating, not too concentrated in nutriment, nor heterogeneous in mixture. We should not overtask the stomach by compelling it to digest too great a variety at once. The stomach often exhausts its powers on the parts of a meal most easily digested, and leaves the harder part to give us a nightmare, or stomach cough, or other irri- tation. As to quantity, one may almost say, the less the better. Twelve ounces of solid food in twenty-four hours is enough for the average; but this requires and permits a larger weight of fruit, vegetables, &c., which contain from 60 to 90 per cent, of water. Franklin’s rule was to leave the table with a good appetite. Leave it, certainly, without any sense of fulness or oppression. Fiery condiments cause dyspepsia, inflammations, erysipelas, gout, and diseases of the liver, kidneys, and bladder. The bad livers that come home from India are more owing to curry and arrack than to the heat of the climate. Cayenne, white and black peppers, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, mace, ginger, mustard, should be used, if at all, very sparingly. In excess they all excite the nerves, stimulate the passions, and injure digestion. They act on the system like ardent spirits, exciting for the time, but causing a corresponding lassitude. The rule for the use of condiments and all added flavours is this: Use them to heighten or modify flavours, but never in such quantity as to give a distinct taste of the condiment. Thus cloves, or allspice, may be used to heighten the flavour of a soup, or dish of baked pears, or an apple tart, but the distinctive taste of the spice should be entirely concealed; and no one should be able to tell by taste or smell what was used to flavour it. This is a general rule in cookery; and if adhered to, most spices and condiments may be used without injury. The lighter flavours, as cinnamon, bitter almonds, bay leaves, vanilla, and sweet garden herbs, should also be used in mode- ration. Our drinks are, if possible, more unnatural and injurious than much of what we eat. Every physiologist and chemist will tell us that the only drink of men and animals is water.