HOW TO COOK. 84 little flavour; mix well, put it in the paste with a gill of water, and if you have a wine-glassful of any fish sauce, add it, cover up, boil one hour, and serve. Mackerel Padding.—Cut off the heads of two mackerel, cut each one in four pieces, keeping the roe in; fill the pudding with the pieces, season with salt, pepper, a little chopped onions and fennel, add a gill of water, boil one hour, and serve with fennel sauce over. • Lent Minced Pie.—Take the yolks and whites of four hard- boiled eggs; shred them fine; add to them three or four apples pared, cored, and chopped small, half a pound each of dried currants and raisins stoned and cut up, two ounces of sugar, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied-peel, and the juice of two Seville oranges. Stir the whole well together; line a dish with a puff-paste, lay in your mince, cover it with a top crust, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in a gentle oven. If preferred, you can make it into small pies, and bake them for twenty minutes. How to Make Mince-meat.—Chop fine one pound of beef suet, four ounces of lean beef previously roasted, half a pound of apples, four ounces of raisins previously stoned; the above articles must be chopped separately; put them all in a basin, add to it two ounces of candied lemon and orange peel and citron; cut these small, then put in a quarter ounce of mixed spice, four ounces of sugar, mix the whole well together, add in the juice of a lemon, a quarter of a pint of brandy, stir it, put it in a jar, and use when required. Stewed tripe (cold) may be used instead of beef, and half an ounce of bitter almonds and lemon peel. The above, if made one week before Christ- mas, will answer every purpose. Line your patty-pan with puff-paste, fill three-parts full with mince-meat, cover over with paste, egg over, sugar, and bake. Royal Mince-meat.—The mince-meat as made at Windsor Castle every year, the ingredients being mixed one month be- fore wanted, is as follows: 240 lbs. of raisins, 400 lbs. of cur- rants, 200 lbs. of lump sugar, 3 lbs. of cinnamon, 3 lbs. of nutmeg, 3 lbs. of cloves, 3 lbs. of ground allspice, 2 lbs. of ginger, 300 lbs. of beef, 350 lbs. of suet, 24 bushels of apples, 240 lemons, 30 lbs. of cedret, 72 bottles of brandy, 3 lbs. of mace, 60 lbs. of lemon-peel, and GO lb». of orange-peel.