HOW TO COOK. 80 PASTRY. Paste is a composition of the flour of wheat, rye, maize, rice, or potatoes, ancl butter, oil, or fat, worked together, with enough water or milk to make a plastic dough, for crusts of pies and tarts, and the outsides of boiled puddings, apple dumplings, &c. Puff paste is made of fine flour, water, and oil or butter so worked in by repeated rollings and foldings as to make it very light and brittle when baked. Eggs are added to increase the richness of the paste. If the flour, which should be well dried, is mixed with a small quantity of baking powder, much less butter may be used to make an equally light and more healthful paste; but it will not bear much rolling. The finest puff paste is made of equal weights of flour and butter. Mix the flour with cold water, and a teaspoonful of salt to the pound, into a softish, flexible paste. Work the butter into the same consistence, laying it top of the paste and pressing the two together. Roll out thin, then shaking on a little flour, fold it over, and roll out three or four times. Let it cool for half an hour, then roll out twice. Plainer pastes are made with less butter or with dripping. Pudding Paste is often made with suet; hut those who do not wish to use it can use butter or oil, and even small quan- tities of these, with baking powder, make very nice crusts. Excellent Paste for fruit or meat pies may be made with two- thirds of wheat flour, one-third of the flour of boiled potatoes, and some butter or dripping; the whole being brought to a proper consistence with warm water, and a small quantity of yeast added when lightness is desired. This will also make very pleasant cakes for breakfast, and may be made with or without spices, fruits, &c. Potato Paste.—Add an egg, or some butter, to boiled and finely bruised potatoes whilst they are warm; before the mix- ture becomes cold, roll it out on a well-floured board; cover the dish with it immediately, and bake. A Wholesome Crust.—Flour sixteen ounces, butter three to four ounces, baking powder one teaspoonful, water rather less than half a pint. Mix the powder intimately with the flour, well dried; rub in the butter, then add the water, and mix the whole with a wooden spoon without kneading it; take it from the bowl and roll it, fold it in three and roll again, and if not