98 IIO\^ TO COOK. flour, a little salt, four tablespoonfuls of yeast; knead thor- oughly; let it rise before the fire, make into loaves with a little of the flour reserved, and bake well in a slow oven. Apple Bread.—A very light pleasant bread is made in France by a mixture of apples and flour, in the proportion of one of the former to two of the latter. The usual quantity of yeast is employed as in making common bread, and is beaten with flour and warm pulp of the apples after they have boiled, and the dough is then considered as set; it is then put in a proper vessel, and allowed to rise for eight or twelve hours, and then baked in long loaves. Very little water is requisite. For cakes, pastry, &c., the flour should be sifted, well dried, and mixed up warm. A pound of flour, when hutter, sugar, or fruit is used, re- quires a tablespoonful of good yeast or a quarter ounce of Ger- man yeast or baking powder. A httle yeast, beaten with sugar and the yolk of an egg, makes cakes very light. For sweet cakes, puddings, &c., use about one teaspoonful of salt to a pound of sugar. Currants should be well picked, washed, and dried before the fire, before using. Raisins picked, washed, and put a few moments into boiling water over a quick fire to soften and swell them, then stoned, if required. Rolls.—Flour, one pound; milk, cream, or a mixture of the two, from a quarter to half a pint; yeast nearly a tablespoonful or German yeast one quarter of an ounce; salt one quarter of an ounce. Mix the dough, let it stand in a warm place to rise, divide into cakes of the size and form required, and bake in a quick oven. Tea Cakes are made of bread dough, with the addition of but- ter and sugar. Buns.—To the dough for rolls add butter from four to eight ounces; eggs, two to four; sugar, four to six ounces; currants or Sultana raisins, six ounces. Less milk will be required. Buns should be formed into a light dough or thick batter. Mix as for rolls. Crumpets, like rolls, with one egg to the pound, and new milk, to make a thick batter. When the batter rises, dip out with a cup and pour upon a hot plate or stone in rings, and