122 HOW TO COOK. lengthways; peel; put them in a very clean stewpan; cover with three ounces of white sugar, powdered; slightly peel a lemon; put in the rind in small strips; squeeze the juice on the top of the sugar; gently shake the pan, it will dissolve the sugar; then put it on a very slow fire for ten or fifteen minutes; shake it gently once or twice; turn each piece with a fork; put it on the fire, and let it stew again for ten minutes. When done put them on a dish to cool, then dress them on a flat dish; pour the syrup over, and serve. They may also he done in a slow oven. Currant jelly or jam, marmalade, or orange, may be mixed with syrup, or half a glass of maraschino or brandy. Pears, German Style.—Peel some cooking pears; cut them in quarters; take out the pips, and shake the pears in a frying pan over the fire, with a small quantity of butter; dredge flour over them; add a little wine and sugar, and simmer them until they are tender; thicken the sauce with some yolk of egg, and serve hot. Gooseberry Fool.—Put in a pan a quart of green gooseberries, with a wineglass of water and half a pound of sugar; stew on a slow fire for twenty minutes; keep stirring; put in basin, and whip a pint of cream; when the fruit is cold, mix with the cream, and serve in cups or dish, or with pastry round it. Apple may be done the same way; currants and raspberries, or stoned cherries may be done the same. If too much syrup, add a little isinglass. Gooseberry Tart.—Pick and nicely wash your gooseberries, and if possible, only use the rough or hairy sort; line the rim of a tart-dish with a very light crust, lay in the fruit, strew in a good deal of sugar, put in a top crust, and place it in a gentle oven. At the end of an hour it will be done; but if you intend the tart to be eaten immediately, you can open the oven-door and let it remain in the oven until it is quite cold, by this means, if the gooseberries are the right sort, they will turn red. Pihubarb peeled and cut in small pieces is done in the same manner. Damson and Apple Tart.—Damsons being a very rich fruit, require a few apples to lower them. Take equal quantities of fine ripe damson and sliced apples; mix; add plenty of sugar or honey, which is better, and bake one and a half hours in a pie dish covered with paste.