HOW TO COOK. 11 baked before the fire, as the wheat short cake, or the Indian corn hoe cake, or johnny cake. Toasted bread also shows the benefit of this free action of heat and air, and a roasted apple differs from a baked one. But in other cases the long continued action of heat, in close vessels, produces wonderful changes of flavour, as in the case of baked beans left all night in the oven, or coarse hard pears long baked or stewed with sugar. The usual mode of baking among savages is to dig a hole in the ground, build a fire in it, and when the earth is well heated, rake out the fire and put into it the articles to be cooked, placing the hot ashes and embers over all, or if necessary building a fire upon them. The clam bakes, fashion- able on the American coast, are made in this way,—the clam being a bivalve similar to the mussel but much superior in size and flavour. The Dutch oven as originally made of pottery, a covered dish set over the fire, and its dish-like lid filled with live coals and ashes, was the next improvement, perhaps, but it fails, as every oven does in some kinds of cookery, in proportion as it excludes the air. Count Rumford found that by letting air come into an oven through a tube heated by the fire, he got a flavour almost as good as that produced by roasting; and cooking in, or by means of a strong blast of very hot air might be an improvement on the open fire. Frying is a convenient way of cookery, and therefore much used, but it has some heavy disadvantages. The oil, butter, or fat, in which meat, fish, eggs, and vegetables, are fried tends to make them indigestible, unless skilfully managed; when the cook is careless or ignorant, this oil is liable to be absorbed in larger quantities than are desirable. Many sub- stances are, by over frying and careless frying, madehard, tough, leathery. Albumen in eggs, and some kinds of meat, becomes very difficult of digestion. The white of an egg too long fried in fat is a great trial to a delicate stomach. But frying can be well done as well as ill done, and when done properly, is a very nice way to cook potatoes, apples, plantain, parsnips, rice cakes, omelets, fish, oysters, flesh and fowl. |Farther on find full directions.] Boiling is adapted to a very wide range of cookery, and simmering, seething, and stewing, are varieties of boiling. The peculiarity of boiling is, that the heat to which any article can be subjected is limited to the boiling point of the