HOW TO COOK. 36 flour. &c. A hand mill, not only for coffee, but to grind wheat for grits or mush, and brown cakes, rice, peas, Indian corn, &c., is a great convenience, and in a few weeks will pay its cost. (See Advt.) The kitchen, pantry, and cupboard should be kept in such order that the cook can lay her hands upon any article required on the instant. “ A place for everything, and everything in its place.” The only way to secure this is to thoroughly clean and put in its place every article as soon as possible after using it. Cleanliness is of the first and last importance. Saucepans, frying-pans, dish cloths, everything, in short, should be kept perfectly sweet and clean, so that not the slightest taste or smell shall remain of what was last cooked. This is especially necessary when fish or onions have been cooked; and it is well to have special saucepans or boilers for these two articles. If not, such as are used must be thoroughly cleansed with soda. Have a bright, clear fire; just enough, and no more. For this purpose, the coal should be broken in small lumps, and fed often and sparingly, as required. Ilalf-an-hour before broiling or frying, make a good fire, and avoid the necessity of mending it while the cooking is going forward. Every kitchen should be provided with scales and weights, or some weighing apparatus, not only to insure the right quantities in following nice recipes, but to keep a salutary check upon careless tradesmen, who, however, seldom make mistakes against themselves. It may also be useful to know that— 30 drops of a thin liquid will fill a middle-sized tea-spoon. 4 tea-spoonfuls are equal to one table-spoonful. 4 table-spoonfuls are equal to two fluid ounces, the eighth of a pint, or a wine-glassful. 4 wine-glassfuls are equal to half a pint, a tumbler glass, or large coffee cup. A table-spoonful of salt, brown sugar, &c., will weigh 1 oz. A middle-sized hen's egg, 2 „ A middle-sized apple, .... • • 3 „ A pint of bread crumbs. 8 „ A pint of flour, sugar, dried peas, &c., 1 lb. A quartern or half gallon, . about 34,, A gallon, ...... 7 „ A peck or stone, . 14 „ A bushel or four pecks, . . 50 „