HOW TO COOK. 41 lemon (if no lemon, use vinegar); a little grated nutmeg may- be added. Pickle Sauce.—One tablespoonful of chopped pickle, one ditto of the vinegar from it; add to half a pint of melted butter, and boil for a few minutes. For fish, meat, and poultry. IVhite Sauce.—Add to one pint of melted butter two yolks of raw eggs, which mix well with a gill of cream, or milk, and when the melted butter is near boiling mix in and stir very quick, do not let it boil; add a little grated nutmeg or mace, and stir in a little more butter, season with a little more white pepper, and the juice of a lemon. For boiled fowls, &c. An Universal Piquant Sauce of sweet oil, sugar, salt, mustard, and vinegar (either plain or chili, cress, tarragon, or celery), is nice, not only for salads, but for meat, fish, crab, lobster, and most kinds of greens and vegetables. Walnut Ketchup.—The best is the vinegar from pickled wal- nuts : bottle it off, and improve the pickles with fresh vinegar. Mushroom Ketchup.—Get fine-grown, fresh-gathered mush- rooms, break them up, and sprinkle a good handful of salt over every layer. Let them lie for all the juice to run out, stirring them up often, but put no water. When the juice has run out, strain it off, and boil it well, with very little ginger, and quan- tum stiff', of pepper, but no other seasoning, as the full flavour of the mushroom is what is wanted. Tomato Ketchup.—Take six pounds of tomatoes, sprinkle them with salt, let them remain for a day or two, then boil them until the skins will separate easily; strain through a colander or coarse sieve. Put into the liquor a handful of shallots, a pint of Chili vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, ginger, and allspice. Boil all together until a third is wasted, bottle it, and when it is cold, cork the bottles very well. Shake it before using it. Shrimp Sauce.—Pick a pint of shrimps. Boil the heads and shells enough to take out all the goodness, adding pepper and salt to taste; strain, make melted butter with the liquor, and stir in the shrimps long enough to get quite hot. Lobster Sauce is made in the same manner, stewing and seasoning the shell, chopping the meat, and mixing in the coral and eggs, if any.