26 HOW TO COOK bringing it to tlie boiling point, being careful not to scorch it, or allow it to boil over. Cheese contains the same elements as meat, and is, weight for weight, more nutritious. It varies in the amount of butter it contains, from the skim milk cheeses to the rich Cheddar and Stilton, which are made of cream, added to new milk. The cheapest cheeses, made of skim milk, and which sell at from 3d. to 6d. a-pound, have more muscle-making nutriment than the richest Stilton. In France, most of the cheese is impressed, and is merely curds kept until ripe, and covered with a white or green mould. Great quantities of French cheeses, exported to all parts of the world, are made from the milk of ewes. Cheese in England is generally eaten with bread, or at the end of a meal, or toasted, or melted with a little beer and poured over toast (Welsh rarebit), with pepper and mustard. Grated, it is mixed with maccaroni and rice; or enters into the com- position of puddings, stews, or ragouts. A German cheese, fragrant with bitter herbs, is grated and powdered over bread and butter, or used as a flavouring for soups. Some Swiss, German, and Italian cheeses are made of curds which have entered upon putrefaction, so as to develop a high or gamy flavour. Eggs are composed of albumen, oil, and water. The white is almost pure albumen; the yolk is about half oil. They are highly nutritious, and blend pleasantly with almost every kind of food; enriching pastry, cakes, puddings, artificial creams, soups, &c. The French cooks have more than a hundred ways of cooking eggs. The eggs commonly eaten are those of the domestic fowl, the turkey, goose, duck, and plover; but the great eggs of the ostrich are said to be very good eating, and those of the turtle are a well-known delicacy. Many millions of eggs are yearly imported into England, which might be produced by her own cottagers with great advantage. In America there are large poultry farms, where fowls are kept by thousands, most of the produce of the farm being used to feed them. FLESH, FOWL, AND FISII. The flesh meat usually eaten in England is beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, bacon, ham, venison, hares, rabbits; geese, ducks, turkeys, chickens. The flesh of these animals is