32 HOW TO COOK. for two hours before using; then put a piece of butter as large as a walnut into the frying-pan, hold it over a clear fire until it smokes; put in enough batter to cover the bottom of the pan, and when nicely browned on one side, turn it, and as soon as it is done, serve with lemon, ginger-sauce, or spiced sugar apart. Put in another piece of butter for each succeeding pan- cake you have to fry. French Pancakes.—Beat two eggs and put in a basin with two ounces butter beaten to a cream; stir in two ounces sifted sugar, two ounces flour, and add a half pint new milk; stir and beat; put on buttered plates, and bake twenty minutes. Serve with a cut lemon and sifted sugar, or pile on a dish with layers of preserve or marmalade. Snow Pancakes.—When the snow is on the ground it may be advantageously employed for pancakes instead of eggs. Take four dessertspoonfuls of flour and two of snow, mix well together; then add enough cold water to make it into a very stiff batter. Fry quickly, and serve hot with spiced sugar and lemon-juice. Rice Pancakes.—Take a quarter of a pound of ground rice, put it into rather more than a pint of milk, and keep stirring it until it is as thick as pap; then put in a quarter of a pound of butter and half a grated nutmeg, Pour it into a pan, and when quite cold, stir in four eggs well beaten, two spoonfuls of powdered white sugar, and enough flour to make it of the consistency of batter. Mix the whole well together, and fry portions of it as pancakes over a quick fire. Fritters are pancakes containing fruit, rice, &c. Cherry Fritters.—Take half a pound of ripe Mayduke cher- ries; stone and halve them: make a pint of new milk pretty hot, sweeten it, and pour it upon your cherries; then well beat four eggs, put them with the cherries, stir all well together, add a little flour to bind it; put it into a frying-pan a spoonful at a time, and when the fritters are done, serve with sugar sifted over them. Fruit Fritters.—Eggs, three or four; rice, three ounces; flour, one tablespoonful; butter, one ounce; sugar, two ounces; milk, one pint; apples, four ounces; currants, three ounces; half a lemon rind. Simmer the rice in the milk till nearly tender, and till the mixture is thick and dry; add the sugar and butter, and when only just warm, mix the currants, apples chopped