HOW TO COOK. 112 ginger, mix and bake in a well-buttered mould for an hour and a half. Oat Pudding, Boiled.—Oatmeal, one pint; boiling milk, two pints; eggs, two; salt, a little. Pour the boiling milk over the oatmeal, and let it soak all night. Add the eggs well beaten; butter a basin that will just hold it, cover it tightly with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. Macaroni Pudding, Baked.—Take a quarter pound of Naples macaroni, swell it in milk with a pinch of saffron, or cinnamon, or mace, and sugar to taste; when soft, stir in a quarter pound of fresh butter and a glass of French brandy, put it into a but- tered pie-dish edged with a rim of crust, pour two beaten eggs over it, and bake for half an hour. Macaroni Pudding, Steamed.—Macaroni, four ounces; milk, one pint; cream, a quarter of a pint; eggs, four; sugar, four ounces. Boil the macaroni till nearly tender, then steam the whole in a pudding mould one hour. Vermicelli.—Like Macaroni. Pease Pudding.—Boil the peas, whole or split, in a cloth loosely tied, two or three hours, or till they are soft; then pulp them through a sieve; add salt, pepper, butter, and some well- boiled potatoes, also passed through a sieve; mix them all well together, tie them up firmly in a cloth, and boil them half an hour; then serve the pudding with melted butter. Soger's Economical Puddings.—Well butter a mould, basin, tart-dish, or tin cake-pan; fill lightly with either stale buns, muffins, crumpets, pastry, white or brown bread, sliced and buttered, the remains of sponge-cakes, macaroons, ratafias, almond cake, gingerbread, biscuit of any kind previously soaked, which you may intermix with fresh or dried fruit, preserves, plums, grated cocoa nut, &c. When your mould is full, put in. a basin a quarter teaspoonful of ginger, a little mixed spice, or cinnamon, grated orange, lemon, or a few drops of any essence you choose; put in three eggs, beat well, add three gills of milk for every quarter mould ; fill up nearly to the rim; bake or boil, or put into a saucepan, one-third full of water, with the lid over, and let simmer for an hour. Pass a knife round the inside of the basin or mould, turn out your pudding, pour over melted butter, with a little sugar, the juice of a lemon, or spirit sauce.