10 HOW TO COOK. sprouts, kale, broccoli, cauliflower, sea-kale, lettuce, endive, celery, dandelion, spinach, rhubarb, artichokes, beet tops, turnip tops, mustard, cress, water cress, &c. Cahlxtye, as men have long since discovered, is a highly nutritious vegetable, containing, the dried leaves, from 80 to 35 per cent, of gluten, or flesh-forming material. In cauli- flower the proportion of gluten sometimes rises to 56 per cent. Cabbages, See., are freed from slugs and insects by lying in cold salt water. They are also improved by a little salt being added to the water in which they are boiled. They should be cooked quite tender, in plenty of water. Veyetables should be as freshly gathered as possible, and kept in a cool place. They may be refreshed by cutting off their stalks, and putting them like flowers in water. Celery is eaten raw, with a little salt, or in stews and soups, to which it gives a fine flavour. The seeds and leaves of the mature plant are also used for this purpose. Lettuce is not only nice in a salad, but excellent stewed, served like spinach, or in soups. Endive is chiefly used in a salad; but would give a pleasant flavour to greens. Spinach is one of the most pleasant and healthful of plants, boiled soft, and served with a little butter and vinegar. It acts as a gentle aperient and blood purifier. The leaves and upper part of the root of young dandelions, cooked and eaten like spinach, but boiled longer, are by many liked better, on account of their fine bitter flavour. They are very nutritious and healthful; and as they grow wild in great abundance all over England where the farmers would be glad to get rid of them, they form a cheap as well as excellent article of food. Cut the root with a knife an inch below the surface of the ground, and they will pull up easily. The tops and roots of youny beets, when the crop is thinned out. also makes a sweet and excellent dish of greens, cooked and served like spinach. The tender leaves of the ruta-baga the same. Mushrooms are among the most nutritious of vegetable substances, and excellent, stewed, fried, broiled, or baked, under a cover, on toast to retain the flavour. There are many • good mushrooms besides the ones commonly sold, some of which resemble, and are a good substitute for, beef or mutton; but care must be used not to gather the poisonous varieties. Fruits —It is thought by many that the most natural food