132 HOW TO COOK. the sugar, and pour boiling water over, let it get cold, pass the liquor as above, and bottle; or a piece of bread, slowly toasted till it gets quite black, may be added to the above; or, a quar- ter of a pound of pearl barley; boil one hour; or, half a pound of rice, boiled in the above until in pulp, passed through a colander, and drunk when cold. All kinds of fruits may be done the same way, as figs and French plums, raisins; or rhubarb, in the same quantities, and done in the same way as apples, adding more sugar; or green gooseberries. For Summer Drink.—One pound of red currants, bruised with some raspberry, half a pound of sugar added to a gallon of cold water, well stirred, allowed to settle, and bottled; or use mulberry, adding a little lemon-peel. Ginger Deer.—White sugar twenty pounds, lemon or lime- juice eighteen fluid ounces, honey one pound, bruised ginger twenty-two ounces, water eighteen gallons. Boil the ginger in three gallons of water during half an hour; add the sugar, juice, and honey, and the remainder of the water, and strain through a cloth. When cold, add the white of one egg, and half a fluid ounce of essence of lemon. When the liquid has stood four days, bottle it. Currant Wine.—One gallon currants, two quarts water, four pounds sugar, one and a half gill good brandy. Press the juice from the currants, add the water and sugar, and let the mixture stand twenty-four hours. Then remove the scum, strain, add the brandy, and put into flasks. Gooseberry, rasp- berry, and rhubarb wines are made in the same manner. ^ESTHETICS OF EATING. In our food and its preparation, the sense of sight, as well as taste and smell, should be gratified. Every meal should be beautiful as well as fragrant and delicious; set, in a clean and orderly apartment, on a table of proper size and shape, and well placed, with respect to light and warmth. Let the table- cloth and napkins, which last should be provided at every meal, be clean, fresh, and as nice as you can afford, and the knives and silver bright. Study order and symmetry in plac- ing the dishes, to make the table a picture. A vase of flowers, or a dish of fruit with green leaves will help, or a vase of cool