35 HOW TO COOK. such food as will prevent constipation are sufficient safeguards against obesity. Brown bread and fruit, lean meats, if any, scale fish, eggs, milk, and most vegetables may be eaten in moderation; but fat persons may well avoid much sugar, starch, butter, oil, and fat meats, or fishes, which may be eaten more freely by persons of an opposite tendency. I hope, however, to be soon able to treat of all matters connected with health in a more thorough and scientific man- ner, in a larger work devoted expressly to the subject. KITCHEN REQUISITES AND MANAGEMENT. Kitchens and kitchen fires are matters of some importance. A good workman does not complain of his tools, but he can work all the better with good ones. English fire-places waste coals, and make kitchens unhealthy. A closed range, if managed with care, is far better and more economical than an open one, and more brick work or tile work and less iron would be an improvement. The American cooking stoves, or kit- cheners, do their work well, and save about half the coal. In French houses, each apartment, or suite of rooms, has its own kitchen on the same floor. They are very small; 6 feet by 8, perhaps. By the window, or a chimney which has a broad opening to carry off the fumes of cookery, is a strong, tile- covered table, of a convenient height, in which are a number of square or round holes 8 or 10 inches in diameter, and about 5 inches deep, with iron gratings at the bottom. In these places are made small charcoal fires, and in these small and often’almost dark rooms, and over these little fire holes, are prepared the most wonderful dinners. Count Rumford used finely split wood in preference to charcoal, and had flues to his furnaces to carry off the smoke, and dampers to regulate the fire. A gas range, with several burners, where the beat could be graduated down to the sim- mering point, and raised as required, would be very perfect for a great number of dishes. The cook requires a series of sauce-pans of different sizes, which should be well tinned or enamelled; two good frying pans, large and small; a single and double gridiron; dishes and covers; iron and wooden spoons, coarse and fine graters, an egg beater, mortar, chopper, paste-board, dredging-box for