52 HOW TO COOK. SOUPS. Many people begin every dinner with soup, followed by fish, flesh, fowl, salad, pudding, pastry, and fruit. In our large towns “ soups ” are placarded at every fashionable restaurant. But how seldom do we find this most economical, palatable, and nutritious form of food on the tables of the poorer classes! Yet few dishes are so easy to make, and none to so much ad- vantage uses up every otherwise wasted bit of meat, fish, or vegetables. In a well-made soup, the work of digestion is already half accomplished. Soup should be made with pure, soft water. The vessels in which it is made should be very clean, and, as it ferments readily, it must, if kept, be boiled every day or two. Soups are made of beef, veal, mutton, poultry, fish, oysters, mussels, lobsters, &c., milk, butter, cheese, barley, rice, peas, beans, lentils, arrowroot, corn starch, macaroni, vermicelli; potatoes, carrots, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, vegetable mar- rows, pumpkins, tomatoes, okra; onions,shallots, garlics,leeks, asparagus ; cabbages, cauliflowers, lettuces, celery, &c. It is flavoured and seasoned with sweet herbs, mushrooms, salt, sugar, pepper, mustard, cayenne, spices, ketchups. The stock, or broth, of soup is made of meat, fish, barley, peas, beans, &c.; reduced by long simmering to a fluid consist- ence. The articles added, to thicken, or make it more nutri- tious, or a better flavour, as barley, rice, tapioca, sugar, should be well washed, and then boiled in the soup, or if much time is required, boiled soft separately, then added. Count Rumford says that dried peas should be put in boiling water. There is a great difference in the quality and solu- bility of peas and beans, depending upon soil or seasons. A bit of soda i‘n the water hastens the process of solution; they may also be mashed. Vegetables should be well cleaned, scraped or pared, if needed, and sliced or cut into small pieces. Onions are sliced ; and if they are first fried nearly black with butter and sugar, they give a rich colour as well as flavour to soup. Baked onions may be bought at the shops. The flavour- ing ingredients should not be too much alike, as cloves and allspice, mace and nutmeg, and should harmonise together; nor should there be anywhere in cookery one flavour so strong as to overpower the others. Butter, and the flavours easily dissipated by heat, should be added last.