113 HOW TO COOK. Soger's Christmas Pudding.—Stone half a pound of common raisins, wash and clean half a pound of currants, half a pound of beef suet chopped fine, two ounces of brown sugar, three ounces of fiour, three eggs, half a pound of bread crumbs, half a gill of rum, and a gill of milk. Mix the night previous, put in a cloth, boil three hours, and serve. Poiir over melted but- ter, in which you have put one tablespoonful of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon, if handy. Half-pag Pudding.—Suet, flour, currants, raisins, bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound of each ; two tablespoonfuls of treacle and half a pint of milk, and boil in a mould three hours. Wine or brandy sauce. A Quick Made Pudding.—Take two ounces of grated bread crumbs, four ounces each of chopped suet and Hour, two eggs, two ounces of sultana raisins, two ounces of currants,nvashed and dried, and a little sugar and spice; mix the whole well together with a breakfast-cupful of new milk; put it into a floured cloth, and boil it for thirty minutes. This pudding is easily made, inexpensive and very good. Serve it with lemon or wine sauce. Cowslip Pudding.—Pull some cowslips from their stems, until you have a quart of flowers; bruise them, boil them in a pint of milk or cream, and when they begin to get tender, pour them into a dish, and add to them four well beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, or bread crumbs grated and soaked in milk, and a good piece of butter; mix, put into a buttered dish, and bake an hour. Pour a rich wine sauce over and serve. Chestnut Pudding.—Boil twelve large chestnuts for a quarter of an hour; peel and beat in a mortar, with a little white wine, to a paste; add the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, a quarter of a pound of butter, melted, and half a pint of cream, or milk; mix, sweeten, put it into a sauce- pan and stir it over the fire till it thickens, then put in a dish lined with puff-paste, and bake forty minutes. Quaking Pudding.—Beat eight eggs; add grated crumbs of a stale penny-roll, two spoonfuls of ground rice, a little nutmeg and orange-flower water; mix it smoothly together with a quart of new milk; put into a floured cloth, tie rather loose, plunge into boiling water, and boil briskly for one hour. Serve with red or white wine sauce. H