29 HOW TO COOK. dom leave tastes unperverted. We learn to love many tilings which are not good for us. Pure and simple food is always delicious to a natural appe- tite. Nothing is better both for the taste and the constitution than good bread, milk, and fruit. Sharp, burning, acrid, exciting, and irritating condiments, people learn to use as they learn to use raw spirits and tobacco. Physicians generally pay far too little attention to diet, as a condition of the preservation of health, or the cure of disease. To advise people to keep well is as obviously against their interests as for an attorney to advise people to keep out of law-suits. Most physicians are content with giving vague directions—“Be careful of your diet;” “eat what you find agrees with you,” &c. Just now the fashionable medico- dietetic advice is “ Eat plenty of good nourishing food, and drink ale or stout—port or sherry.” Homeopathic physicians have a list of prohibited articles for patients under treatment; but many allow them to take tea, coffee, and tobacco, which is against homeopathic principles. It is said that “ what is one man’s meat is another man’s poison.” This is true to a very limited extent, and in certain rare idiosyncrasies. I have never heard of a baby that was poisoned by the milk of a healthy nurse or cow, nor of a man who could not eat bread, and most kinds of fruit and vege- tables. There are rare cases of persons to whom eggs or cheese really seem to be poisons. It is true, however, that every one ought to avoid what he finds to permanently dis- agree with him; and if we were all to do that we should soon have a sufficient code of diet. Only we are very slow in attributing any ailment to what we are fond of. We charge it upon anytliing else. If we cannot sleep after a hearty supper, it is the bed, the clothes, the air; anything but our own excess. If a favourite dish injures us, we lay the blame on some quite innocent thing we little care for. We must learn that the stomach is a very important vital organ, upon whose good condition and proper treatment all the functions of brain and body depend. In nine cases out of ten, what are supposed to be affections of brain and heart have their real seat in a disordered stomach. Abernethy went to this centre to cure a sore finger or toe, and rightly; for there can be no reparation of any organ unless there be good blood; good blood depends upon good nutri- tion, and good nutrition depends upon good digestion, which,