HOW TO COOK. 130 infusion of the soluble matter of the leaves of a plant; coffee is an infusion of a berry, with narcotic properties developed by heat. Cocoa and chocolate contain stimulating properties similar to those of tea and coffee, mixed with more nutriment. Beer contains alcohol, the narcotic principle of hops, with a little sugar. Most of these beverages have but a slight nutritive value; the habit of using them is strong in proportion to their narcotic and stimulating elements, and their excessive use is destructive to health. Other beverages merely gratify the taste, and have no harmful element—such as lemonade, aerated waters, ginger beer, unfermented fruit, j uices, &c. Of all fer- mented drinks, light, pure wines are least harmful. The best coffee is the Mocha, next to that is Bourbou, Mauritius, Cey- lon, Madras, Java, and Jamaica. Good coffee is very rare in England. Not one “ coffee-house” in a hundred has anything better than a decoction of burnt sugar, roasted peas, &c. At many shops it is adulterated with chicory, roasted grains, burnt sugar, beefs liver, &c. Coffee acquires a fine flavour when a little butter and sugar is mixed with it while roasting. Many persons prefer coffee with one-eighth or one-sixth admixture of chicory. Substitutes for Coffee are made of roasted bread crusts, wheat, rye, barley, carrots, dandelion roots, peas, beans, figs, &c. Fig coffee is largely used in Austria. Some of these substitutes have much of tlxe flavour of coffee, and no injurious effect upon the nervous system. Coffee is best when fresh roasted and newly ground, or when kept in air-tight canistei's. The French burn half their coffee cinnamon colour, the other to a deep brown, find mix. One gives more stx-ength, the other more flavour. The percolator, or filtei-ing-pot, makes very nice coffee when well managed. The coffee should not be more than an inch deep, aixd the water turned on boiling hot. The first run has the finest aroma—the last is harsh and acrid. The best percolators are those of Loysel, made upon the hydrostatic principle. If ground coffee is put in cold water and brought slowly to the boiling point and then settled, or clarified, you get all the strength and flavour. Soyer’s method is also good for both tea and coffee. He put them in the pot, heated them quite hot, and then poured on boiling water, and let them stand to settle. Dr. Donovau recommends two and a half ounces of coffee to a quart of water. Pour one-half of the water cold upon the