HOW TO COOK. 100 into a good stiff paste; roll it into a cake three quarters of an inch thick; egg it over; score it with a knife in diamonds or any other shape; bake for about half an hour in a rather hot oven; sprinkle sugar over, and serve. Gingerbread.—Mix one pound flour with a quarter of an ounce bicarbonate of soda; dissolve one to four ounces butter; mix with half a pound to a pound treacle or golden syrup an ounce or two of powdered ginger ; mix into soft dough, and in from half an hour to an hour it will be ready to bake. Eggs may be used, and baking powder; in which case it can be baked as soon as mixed. A richer Gingerbread is the following: — Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, four to eight ounces; eggs, one to four; sugar, four to eight ounces; treacle, eight to sixteen ounces; ginger, half an ounce to two ounces. The following is eaten as a remedy for constipation:—Fine oatmeal, sixteen ounces; butter, four ounces, treacle, sixteen ounces; ginger, half to two ounces Scones.—Flour, two pounds, bi-carbonate of soda, quarter of an ounce; salt, quarter of an ounce; sour buttermilk, one pint, more or less. Mix to the consistence of light dough, and roll out about half an inch thick, and cut them out to any shape you please, and bake on griddle over a clear fire about ten or fifteen minutes: turning them to brown on both sides'; or they may be done on a hot plate, or ironing-stove. 'Rice Calces.—Rice, sixteen ounces, stewed in a pint of water; add two pints of milk, four ounces of butter, grated lemon-peel, or nutmeg, or cinnamon; boil till thick; then add two well- beaten eggs, a little salt, $nd four ounces of sugar; put it in a buttered bread-tin or pan; bake one hour. Serve with sugar or jam over it. Ground Rice Cake.—Break five eggs into a stewpan, which place in another, containing hot water, whip the eggs for ten minutes till very light, then mix in by degrees half a pound of ground rice, six ounces of powdered sugar, beat it well; any flavour may be introduced; pour it into buttered pan and bake half an hour. Ginger Cake.—Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, one ounce and half of ground ginger, six eggs; beat, well, stirring ©ne pound and a half of flour, and add as much milk, a little