44 HOW TO COOK. milk one pint, sugar four to six ounces, lemon juice or white wine. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold water, add it to the boiling fluid and sugar. If intended for dark sauce, substitute brown sugar and port wine; if for vegetables, season with pep- per and salt. Corn-starch may be used instead of arrowroot. Mock-Cream for Rice, Fruit, £c.—Pour half a pint of boiling milk on a teaspoonful of arrow-root, previously mixed with a a small quantity of cold milk; stir the mixture well, and when moderately warm, add the white of an egg well beaten. Place the whole over the fire, and stir it till it nearly boils. Tapioca Sauce.—Tapioca one ounce, water one pint, loaf- sugar four ounces, a little lemon peel. Simmer the tapioca in the water one or two hours, or until it is dissolved and clear; add the sugar and seasoning, and pour the sauce over a baked or boiled pudding. Jam, lemon juice, &c., improve it. Hard Sauce.—Work together white or nice brown sugar and butter until white, moistening with a few drops of wine or brand)'; add a little powdered nutmeg, cinnamon, or any fla- vouring essence you like. Serve on a small plate cold. Custard Sauce for Fruit Pudding or Tarts.—Put half a pint of milk in a clean saucepan and boil; beat two eggs, and add with three ounces pounded sugar to the milk, in a jug standing in a saucepan of hot water; stir till it thickens; add a table- spoonful of brandy and a little nutmeg, and serve in a tureen. Fruit Sauce.—Melt a small lump of butter, stir in half as much flour, or a quarter as much of corn-starch, arrowroot, or soaked tapioca, a pinch of salt, if the butter is not salted, a glass of acid wine or lemon juice, or a tablespoonful of vinegar ; sugar to taste; any fruit juice you have, as raspberry, strawberry, black- berry, elderberry, or jam will do; thin to the right consistence; bring it to the boil, and serve. Raspberry, and other fruit vinegars make excellent sauces. Fruit Syrups.—By getting fruit when it is most plentiful— apples, pears, plums, berries, blackberries and elderberries, simmering them with a very little water, squeezing through a jelly bag, and then boiling them a few minutes with about half as much weight of sugar as juice, you may bottle ofl'health- ful syrup, which will make the plainest puddings, or simple steamed bread, or boiled rice, delicious eating.