123 HOW TO COOK is good in cakes and pastxy. Milk coagulates into curd, which by time and pressure is made into cheese, one of the most nutritious of substances, and varying iu richness—that is, in the quantity of oil or butter, from the hard skim milk to Ched- dar or Stilton. Scalded Millt.—Milk brought quickly to the boiling point, and then rapidly cooled, will keep much longer in warm weather than in its natural state. Doubtful milk may by this means be made more healthy. Rice, Tapioca, Semolina, Vermicelli, or Macaroni Milk.— Wash and put three tablespoonfuls of either in one quart of milk ; simmer gently till tender, stirring to keep from burning, sweeten to taste, and add any flavour required. Milk Porridge, or Cruel, is made by boiling the milk, salting a little, and stirring into it a little flour, oatmeal, or similar article. It is a domestic remedy for diarrhoea. Curds.—Freshly soured and thickened milk is both whole- some and easy of digestion. In the country it may be easily prepared by stirring several spoonfuls of orange or port wine into a dish of sour milk before it sets, then leaving it to curdle, and eating with powdered sugar and a little nutmeg. Or vanilla and other flavours may be added with the wine. Ice Cream is cream sweetened and flavoured, put into a vessel, wdiich is set in a tub of pounded ice and salt, and shaken or stirred until it freezes; or use milk and eggs. Tapioca Cream.—Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in cold water two hours. Boil a quart of milk, and stir in the tapioca beaten with a cup of sugar, and then yolks of three eggs, and boil all till slightly thickened. Pour in mould, and when cold, ice with whites of the eggs beaten, with three table- spoonfuls sugar. Arrowroot Cream.—Take one ounce of arrowroot, one quart of milk, three ounces of lump sugar. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk, add the yolk of an egg, stirring it well and breaking the lumps. Boil the milk with the peel of a lemon and a little cinnamon, sweetening it with the sugar; pour it, boiling hot, over the arrowroot, stirring it well till cold; then pour into glasses. Snoic Mice Cream.—Put in a stewpan four ounces of ground