HOW TO COOK. 95 digestive organs than where it is not.” Chemistry has demon- strated that the wasted bran is richer in nutritive elements than the finest flour. The entire grain as God made it is sweetest, and most healthy.* Bread should be baked quickly and thoroughly, neither over nor under done, but with a light brown crust, It is best when a day old. A stale loaf may be made quite fresh by being dipped for a few moments in water, and then put in the oven until heated through. Bolls and biscuits may be so renewed. Bye, if free from ergot, makes very good bread. Indian corn makes excellent cakes, but for large loaves it should be mixed with a third or half of rye or wheat meal. Barley and oats are better in thin cakes, or still better in porridge. Biscuits, from bis, twice; cuit, baked, are thin cakes of flour aud water; but a great variety is made with milk, butter, sugar, eggs, &c. If they are to be dry and crisp, when three parts done remove them to a slow oven where the vapour can freely escape. A little potato starch or arrow-root, an ounce to a pound of flour, makes them more delicate. Dyspeptic Biscuits, formed of undressed wheatmeal and water, well made, and carefully baked, are probably the most wholesome kind of bread, and may be kept in tin cannisters for a considerable time without injury. Dyspeptics can digest these when other bread disagrees with them. Well toasted brown bread is nearly as good. Unfermented Raised bread is made by thoroughly mixing some alkali, usually bicarbonate of soda, with the flour, about half an ounce to four lbs., and then mixing acid enough to neutralise it with the water or other liquid, one quart, with which the dough is formed. The same weight of hydro-chloric (muriatic acid) will answer, and forms common salt. The common baking powders contain both alkali and acid. Mix thoroughly, through a sieve or otherwise, then pour in the water and mix quickly, working but little. The dough should be softer than for fermented bread. Put in a deep dish, and bake in a hot oven. Sour milk or sour butter milk may be used instead of the hydro-chloric acid. Fermented Bread is made of dough, in which a small por- * I very strongly recommend to every family to have a hand mill and grind their own wheat. I have one in use two years, which seems as good as ever. Good mills can be had from six to twenty shillings. {See advertisement at the end of the book.)