IIOW TO COOK. 88 Puddings, tarts, cakes, and custards, are flavoured with orange and lemon peel, or the essential oils they contain, bay leaves, laurel leaves, peach leaves, orange flower water, rose water, vanilla. Some, perhaps all these substances, are poisonous, in certain quantities, and must be used sparingly and delicately, as we find them in nature. Our gardens supply us with a variety of sweet and bitter herbs of a warm and aromatic character, which are agreeable to the smell and taste of most persons, and which gently stimu- late appetite and digestion. These are parsley, common thyme, lemon thyme, orange thyme, knotted majorum, sage, mint, summer and winter savoury, sweet basil, tarragon, tansy, chervil, burnet, fennel. These are used simply, or oftener in combination, to season soups, stews, meat and fish pies or puddings, stuffings, &c. The great fault with cooks is using too much of them. They are best kept dried and powdered in bottles, either single or mixed according to taste, or for different purposes. Then we have the pungent condiments, as mustard, horse radish, cayenne, onions, shallots, garlics, leeks. Onions come under the head of food as well as flavour; and all can be used so carefully as not to offend the most delicate taste or smell, and yet give a rich aroma to the kinds of food to which they are adapted. Garlic especially, one can scarcely use too little of. Merely rubbing the dish or knife is often sufficient. Wine and brandy are also much used as flavours; and the same may be said of raisins, currants, &c. Salt is food as well as a condiment, and enters into every dish, yet too much is a great fault. As it is always on the table it is safer to use too little. The spices should be bought whole, and ground and mixed at home to avoid adulterations. The aromas of orange and lemon peel, aromatic leaves and flowers, majr be extracted by brandy or alcohol, so as to be ready and handy for use. The bitter herbs are best steeped in vinegar, as with tarragon and basil vinegar. Horse radish vinegar, shallot and garlic vine- gars, cress vinegar, are also convenient preparations. To make them, fill bottles two:tliirds full of the bruised lemon peel, seeds, roots, &c., and fill up with good vinegar; use according to the strength. Essence of celery is made by putting a half ounce of the seeds in a gill of brandy. The powder and juice of mushrooms, mushroom ketchup, walnut ketchup, or the vinegar from walnut pickles, and tomato