37 HOW TO COOK. ORDER OF COOKING. In preparing a meal, consider how long a time will be required for the dishes it takes longest to cook, as soups, boiled meats, or puddings. Where a stock pot is not kept constantly ready”, the soup should be begun early in the morn- ing. Let the other dishes follow according to the time required; and be ready at the end, when everything else is dished, to make an omelet, or poach eggs, or prepare other delicate dishes which require but a few moments to cook, and which should be taken from the fire to the table. SAUCES, RELISHES, AND FLAVOURS. I have already spoken of the substances used to flavour food, and I now propose, before giving recipes for cookery, to give some account of flavouring ingredients, sauces, and relishes, which enter so largely into the composition of a great many dishes. It is desirable that the cook should know some- thing of these before being called upon to use them. Strong flavours first stimulate, but in the end injure the diges- tive powers, and the blandest, or least flavoured articles of food relish the longest. High seasoned dishes are forbidden to invalids, and should be to all liable to become invalids. What we want are delicate and natural flavours, or close imitations of nature. The productions of the tropics may be used to warm, sweeten, and give delicate aromas to the cold, bland, or sour, and often insipid productions of our northern clime. Thus-we use sugar, honey, treacle, to soften sour fruits, and give not only a pleasanter taste, but more nutritive quali- ties to puddings, cakes, and even to many soups and vegetables. We use vinegar, lemon juice, &c., to make vegetables, fish, and sweets more palatable. For puddings, custards, jellies, we use sweet and bitter almonds, vanilla, nutmeg, cocoanut, &c. The aromatic spices, as pepper, allspice, cayenne, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, mace, ginger, celery, are used, one or more, in almost every kind of cookery. Pepper, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, are to be used very sparingly. There should scarcely ever be the distinct taste of any of those articles, only a suggestion of warmth and an aroma mingling with that of the staples of the dish. Cinnamon and ginger are milder flavours, and may be used more freely. UNIVERSE LIBRARY i pros