HOW TO COOK. 25 enter largely into the dietary of all who use much muscular exercise. The green pods of beans are eaten as well as the seed; and the pods of green peas, generally thrown away, should be used for soup. ANIMAL PRODUCTS. Next to fruits, grains, and what we call vegetables, the earliest food of the human species, came milk and eggs. The eating of fish and flesh must have been later inventions. As milk is the first food of man, as of all the mammalia, it is evidently perfectly adapted to his nutrition, and contains all the elements needed in the human system. The milk of cows, goats, and sheep, is even richer than human milk in nutritive elements. Milk contains, and is divisible into, whey, curd, or caseine, which is the equivalent of gluten in wheat, albumen in eggs, and fibrine in flesh, and butter. Milk unites readily with the cereals in bread and puddings; with potatoes and onions; with eggs in cakes, puddings, omelets, and custards; with most fruits, and in some cases with meat and fish. Cream, or the lighter portion of milk containing fat globules—butter—is with many more digestible than milk, and blends deliciously with all farinaceous substances and fruits. Butter, the separated oil globules of milk, when well made, and carefully washed, or worked clear of the other constitu- ents of milk, obtained from healthy animals, living on pure food, is a good form of oil or fat, for mixing with flour in pastry, with flour and eggs in cakes and biscuits, dressing vegetables, making sauces, and for frying fish, pancakes, frit- ters, &c. For frying, salt or rancid butter may be clarified by melting it in a large quantity of pure water, thoroughly stirring it, skimming off impurities, and then letting it cool. The solid butter may then be taken from the top, melted, poured into jars, and kept for use. Lard, dripping, and other animal fat may be t larified in a similar manner. Butter may also be purified by thoroughly working it in cool water or churning it with milk. An ingenious machine has been patented for squeezing it in water through small holes, so as to allow the ■water to act upon a large surface. In warm weather, when milk is liable to turn sour, it may be kept sweet for a long time by scalding it—that is, jus!