HOW TO COOK. 118 before it is cooked. Batter puddings are lighter when boiled than baked, and should be well boiled. As flour is improved by long boiling, and milk injured by it, water is preferable to milk in making batter for boiled puddings; on the contrary, milk is better for baked puddings, which are improved by being baked quickly. Batter Pudding.—Flour, four ounces; milk or cream, or a mixture of the two, half a pint to a pint; eggs, one to four. Sugar and butter may be added in the proportion of from two to four ounces of each, and then apples, currants, raisins, or seasoning. Fill a floured pudding-cloth with the batter, and tie it tight; or buttered teacups, or small pudding basins, with a cloth tied over each; plunge each pudding into boiling water, and let it boil fast half an hour, or an hour and a quarter, according to size; or cook it by steam. The pudding should be just firm enough to stand, when removed from the cloth or mould. Or, take one pint of sour milk or butter milk, add one beaten egg, a little salt, stir in flour to thicken, in which you have rubbed a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, add any fruit in season; steam or boil, and serve with sweet sauce. Light Dough Dumplings.—Make a pound of raising dough into balls the size of eggs; put upon a plate and set in steamer, and boil continually half an hour or longer. Serve with boiled syrup in which a little butter has been melted. Popovers.—Beat three eggs very light; add three cups of milk; beat in three cups of flour rapidly and smoothly; bake in cups, half filled, in a quick oven. Serve as soon as done with wine or fruit sauce. Very nice made with wheat meal. Puff Pudding.—Stir smoothly into one pint of boiling milk nine tablespoonfuls of flour, first wetted with a little milk. When this is cold add a little salt and three eggs, thoroughly <vell beaten; then bake in a buttered dish. Serve with sauce. FRUIT AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Some kind of fruit should he eaten every day; best, I think, at breakfast: good at lunch; good at dinner, if one has not eaten more than enough before it comes upon the table; doubtful at supper; but then supper itself is a very dubious meal.