51 HOW TO COOK. water, drained, and put in a baking-pan with sufficient water or milk, salt, butter, and a great spoonful of brown sugar or treacle to a quart. Some put a piece of salt pork, or salt beef in the centre, in which case no other salt is needed ; but they are nicer with butter or cream. Soyer says—“ Haricots, plain boiled, should be first washed, then put into the saucepan one quart of them, with four quarts of cold water, one ounce of butter or fat; boil them gently for three hours, or till tender; the water will be nearly absorbed, if the haricots are good: draw off the remainder; mix in a pint of it three teaspoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoonful of pep- per, add it to the haricots; boil for ten minutes, keep stirring, and serve, adding three teaspoonfuls of salt; an ounce of but- ter is an improvement. Four onions in slices, fried, may be added with the seasoning, when the haricots or lentils are nearly cooked. The broth, if ample, when strained from them, may be used as soup, with bread in it.” White Beans ( Haricots) Stewed.—Soak a quart of white hari- cot beans, or other small beans, for some hours in cold water; put them in fresh water and simmer until they are quite ten- der. If the water boils away, fill up with cold. Drain well; put in a saucepan with a quarter pound of fresh butter, one tablespoonful minced parsley, salt and pepper; move about, but do not stir with a spoon until quite hot; squeeze in a lemon, or a dash of vinegar, and serve. Lentils.—Wash and cook them like haricots, putting them in cold water; they will not take so long, but try when tender. The liquor of either makes a nutritious soup, by adding fried onions, a little flour, pepper, and salt, and poured over bread previously sliced and put in a soup basin. Tomatoes, Balced.—Pour boiling water over the tomatoes to loosen the skins; peel; cut in thick slices, and place them in a well buttered baking-dish, with plenty of salt and pepper, and butter in bits. Cover with bread-crumbs, in which mix grated cheese and powdered sweet herbs. Bake twenty or thirty minutes. Or stew over the fire, stirring in the bread-crumbs and sea- soning.