HOW TO COOK. 119 Ripe strawberries, grapes, peaches, apricots, cherries, plums, pears, and some apples, cannot be improved by cookery. These may be eaten freely by most persons, particularly those who live chiefly on vegetable food, with great advantage. When fresh fruits are not to be had, we can fall back upon dried fruit, canned fruit, and fruit in preserves and jellies. Water is seldom to be used with fruit puddings or pies. Use lemon juice, grape juice, or cider when possible. When pies are made of green gooseberries, apples or rhubarb, it is advisable to clarify the sugar, that is, to boil it in a little water, but water should not be poured into the pie for this purpose. The parings and cores of apples and pears may be stewed in a little water, and the strained liquor poured through a small funnel into the pie when it has been baked. All pies made with summer fruit, cranberries, or winter pre- serves, will be improved by the addition of apples pared and sliced. When apples are mixed with jam, they should be sliced thin; and if syrup be wanted, a few slices should be boiled with a little of the jam, in sugar and water. Fruits preserved with sugar should be added after the crust has been baked. A cover may be baked for them. A little sago or tapioca is a pleasant addition to rhubarb; it should be scattered between the fruit. Those who prefer much flavour in their fruit pies, may add lemon-peel, cinna- mon, nutmeg, marmalade, etc. Short Crust for Tarts.—Rub into each pound of dry flour, one half or three-quarters of a pound of butter; add one table- spoonful of sifted sugar, and mix into a stiff paste with water; roll and fold over three or four times. Baking powder may take the place of a portion of the butter. Rice Paste for Sweets.—Boil four ounces of ground rice in a small quantity of water; strain off all the moisture, and dry it well; beat it in a mortar, with half an ounce of butter, and one egg well beaten. This paste is very much preferred by some for tarts. Syrup, to Clarify for Jellies, dc.—Two pounds of sugar to a quart of water, in a stewpau, over a gentle fire; when the sugar is dissolved, stir in thoroughly the white of an egg, one for every three or four quarts, and simmer gently and skim; strain, and keep for use.