109 HOW TO COOK Elegant Bread Pudding, Boiled.—Take light white bread in thin slices. Put into a pudding-shape a layer of any sort of preserve, then a slice of bread, and repeat until the mould is almost full. Pour over all a pint of warm milk, in which four beaten eggs have been mixed; cover the mould with a piece of linen, place it in a saucepan, with a little boiling water, let it boil twenty minutes, and serve with sauce. Bice Milk.—Boil a cup of rice until perfectly soft, drain the water from it, and mix in one quart of milk. Boil, stirring carefully. Beat two eggs, with a cup of sugar, and stir into the boiling milk for ten minutes ; remove from the lire; flav- our with vanilla, cinnamon or almond, and serve. Plain Rice Pudding.—Wash a teacup of rice, and put in a pie-dish with half a teacup of moist sugar, one quart of milk, one half oimce of butter, in small bits, a little nutmeg; bake in a slow oven two hours. Rice Pudding, Boiled.—Take a quarter of a pound of rice and half a pound of sultana raisins; tie them in a cloth, allow- ing the rice room to swell. Boil it two hours; turn it out, and pour over it melted butter, sugar, and nutmeg. Or it may be boiled without the raisins, and serve jam-sauce or currant- sauce apart. Or, for a nicer one, swell six ounces of whole rice by scalding it in a quart of new milk; let it grow cold, then mix it with a quarter of a pound of currants well washed and rubbed dry, a quarter of a pound of white sugar, and two eggs well beaten. Mix the whole well together; put it into a but- tered basin or floured cloth, and boil for forty minutes. Serve it with any sauce you like. Cream Rice Pudding.—Take two large tablespoonfuls rice, one quart milk, one teacup sugar, one cup cut raisins, a little salt. Put all together; let the basin stand in a warm place three hours, then bake the pudding one hour. Rice and Tapioca Pudding.—Bice, two tablespoonfuls boiled in water, add a little salt, and set it by the fire till the rice is quite soft and dry. Put it in a bowl, add two ounces of butter, four tablespoonfuls of tapioca previously washed, milk, a pint and a half, a little grated nutmeg, sugar to taste, and two eggs well beaten. Stir all together; then put the mixture in a but- tered dish, and bake one hour. Tapioca Pudding.—Simmer four ounces of tapioca in a pint