88 HOW TO COOK. pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and two ounces of currants washed, dried in a cloth, and plumped in brandy. Fry as above, and serve with a glass of rum poured over it; set fire to the rum, and send it to table, flaming. Omelette Soujlee.—Carefully break eight eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, beat the whites to a snow, mix the yolks with a little grated lemon-peel and a spoonful of sugar; then mix the whites and yolks together, put them into a buttered dish, sprinkle it over with sugar; put the omelette into a gentle oven, and immediately it is well risen, serve it dusted over with sifted sugar. Omelet with Arrow Root.—Beat up two eggs, and mix with them one tablespoonful of arrow root, and a teacupful of milk, add a little pepper and salt, and sugar, if preferred, throw the whole on to a flat saucepan, previously well heated and cov- ered with butter, keep the saucepan in motion over the fire, then turn it several times, and roll it up, keeping it in motion till it is slightly browned. The Friars' Omelet.—Bake some fine large apples, peel them, and take a pint of their pulp, freed from core; mash it up with four ounces each of fresh butter and loaf-sugar in powder, and, as soon as cold, add four eggs well beaten; then take a tart-dish, butter it thorough^, and strew it over with a thick coating of bread-crumbs; put in the ingredients, strew more bread-crumbs on the top, and bake it forty minutes. Turn it out to serve, and dust it over well with pounded lump- sugar. Custards are soft, sweet, and delicate preparations of eggs, cream, milk, and sugar, in the proportions of milk, or milk and cream, one pint; eggs, one to five; sugar, two to four ounces; delicate flavours, as lemon peel, orange flower water, rose water, almond, laurel leaves, vanilla, mace, cinnamon, nutmeg, &c. For cream a little butter may be substituted, and a tea- spoonful of arrow root, corn starch, potato starch, or ground rice may be used for lack of sufficient eggs. Add the sugar and flavouring to one half the fluid, and let it simmer ten min- utes; when the eggs have been well beaten with the remainin'* fluid, add them to the hot fluid; place the whole over the fire again, and stir it till it becomes sufficiently thickened, but do not let. it boil. Remove from the fire, and stir it occasionally till cold; pour it into custard glasses. Or, put the custard into a mould, which place in a steamer containing very little