now TO COOIC. 13G better and pleasanter, we can enjoy that greatest of pleasures, helping those who have not even the necessai'ies of life. In Part Sixth of “ Human Physiology the Basis of Sani- tary and Social Science,” I have given my idea of a true social organisation, founded upon the nature of man, and adapted to his wants and capacities. In such a society the production, selection, and preparation of food—the whole science and art of gastronomy would have a place correspond- ing in importance to the functions of smell and taste, masti- cation, deglutition, digestion, and assimilation in the human body. Nutrition would be studied as a science and practised as an art. Every vital function should be accompanied with enjoyment. Whatever is needful to do should be doneniot only well, but happily. What we must do every day, we should try to do in the best manner. We must eat, as we must breathe, and we should eat good food, as we breathe good air. Not live to eat, indeed, but eat in such a manner as to live long and well, and so as to build up, nourish, and sustain the body, with all its organs of motion, sensation, thought, and feeling, so as to make it the best possible in- strument for the soul. Taste, conscience, and our most intel- ligent judgment should be used in the selection of our food and beverages, for they influence our thoughts, and feelings, and actions. What we eat and drink makes our blood, and of our blood are formed all the solids and fluids, tissues and organs of our bodies. “The house we live in” should be carefully built of the nicest and best materials. “ Choose what is best, and habit will make it most agree- able.” There is much truth in this, for “habit is a second nature; ” yet I would not have one fanatical in eatng and drinking. We have' habits and idiosyncrasies formed in us before we were born. Our tastes and aptitudes hsve been largely shaped for us by our progenitors, and it is really true in rare and exceptional cases that “ what is one mans meat is another man’s poison.” Morbid and hurtful appeti.es, how- ever, are not to be indulged but conquered, and supplanted by healthy ones. We are to find out what is reallp best for us, and resolutely do that best. But all these matters, and nearly all matters connected with human health, veil-being, and happiness 1 have treated of in my larger work 01 “Human Physiology,” and to that I refer the intelligent and inquiring reader. T1IE END.