HOW TO COOK. CO the broth is boiling; simmer till in pulp, and serve.. A few sprigs of parsley, or the flowers of four marigolds, is an im- provement, and, at the same time, an agreeable change. Arrowroot Thickening for Soups.—Take an ounce of arrow- root, and very gradually add sufficient liquid to it to make it of the consistency of batter; and in order that it may be smooth, it should be moistened sparingly at first and beaten with the back of a spoon, until every lump has disappeared. The soup should boil quickly when the thickening is stirred into it, and be simmered for ten minutes afterwards. One ounce of arrowroot is sufficient for one quart of soup. Corn Starch (called flour), sago, tapioca, rice flour, potato starch, as well as common wheat flour, may be used nearly in the same fashion. Ox Cheek Soup.—Rub an ox cheek (middle size, or half a large one) with four teaspoonfuls of salt and one of pepper; put in four quarts of cold water; when it boils, simmer gently for three hours. Skim off the fat. A head of celery, or some leaves of it, or onions, and any vegetables may be added in boiling. Put the meat on a dish, and serve the soup sepa- rately, with bread in it. Any small quantity of mixed vegetables may be used. They should all be cut into dice, and not peeled, but well cleaned, with the exception of the dried skin of the onion. One pound of rice is a great improvement; or half-a-pint of split peas, or barley, or a pint of white haricot beans, or a little flour to make the gravy or broth thick. It may be varied in several ways; but the chief point is, when once boiled, simmer slowly till tender, which you may ascertain by piercing it with a fork; if it sticks to it, it is not sufficiently done. Sheep and lamb’s head may be done the same way, but will only take one quarter of the time; season accordingly. FISH. Fish contains about the same nutriment as its weight of flesh, and the less oily varieties are richer in nitrogen, or the flesh-forming elements. It is also good food for the brain and nerves, from its large supply of phosphorus. The quantities of fish which might be taken all round the