10 HOW TO COOK. Egg Sauce.—To melted butter add two hard boiled eggs cut into dice. Caper Sauce.—Add two tablespoonfuls of chopped capers. Fennel Sauce.—Add same of chopped fennel. Parsley Sauce, the same. Mild Onion Sauce.—Boil four onions in salt and water, take them out, chop them up, and add them to melted butter, with a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little milk or cream; salt to taste. Sage and Onion. — To the above add a tablespoonful of chopped green sage and a little more pepper. Celery Sauce.—Boil in a half-pint of white gravy, or water, one fine head of celeiy, cut in one inch lengths and well washed —it will take about twenty minutes—add to it the melted butter. The yolk of an egg beat up and stirred in is an im- provement; it may require a little more salt. Serve with poultry. Celery Vinegar may be made by pouring one pint of good vinegar on a quarter an ounce of pounded celery seeds. Infuse a fortnight and strain. Nice in salads, sauces, &c. Apple Sauce.—Peel six good-sized apples, cut in four pieces, cut out the core, slice fine, put into a stew pan with one ounce of brown sugar and a gill of water; stew till in pulp. Mint Sauce.—Chop three tablespoonfuls of green mint, put it into a basin with three of brown sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of pepper, and half a pint of vinegar. For roast lamb, cold meat, and poultry. Horseradish Sauce.—Grate two tablespoonfuls of horseradish, which put into a basin; add to it one teaspoonful of mustard, one of salt, a quarter of pepper, one of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; moisten with a little milk or cream until of a thick- ish appearance. For rumpsteak, cold meat, &c. Wine and Spirit Sauce.—Add to half a pint of melted butter, without salt, two teaspoonfuls of white or brown sugar, a glass of brandy, or rum, or sherry, or any liquors. Hotel Keeper s Sauce.—Mix in half a pint of melted butter one tablespoonful of hotel keeper’s butter, warm it and serve. Hotel Keepers Butter, which may be kept in store, is made in the following manner:—Put on a plate a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto ol pepper, two of chopped parsle}r, the juice of a middle-sized