106 HOW TO COOK. soaked in water an hour or more before they are made into puddings, in order to remove unpleasant flavours. Half a pound of rice may require two quarts of milk; barley will require more. They may be enriched and flavoured by adding butter, cream, eggs, cinnamon, nutmeg, lemon-peel, &c. The eggs should be well beaten, and added to the ingredients, when the latter are rather cool; but eggs are seldom required for rice or other seed puddings. They may be varied by add- ing currants, raisins, apples pared, cored, and quartered, or chopped small. For a savoury pudding, use water instead of milk, and onion one or two ounces; powdered sage, half a teaspoonful,; mar- joram one quarter of a teaspoonful; butter, one ounce; and leave out the sauce. When a pudding is sufficiently brown on the surface before it has been well baked through, lay a sheet of writing paper over it, but not before it is set; when quite firm in the centre, it will be sufficiently baked. Potato Pudding.—Bruise with a wooden spoon, through a colander, six large or twelve middle-sized boiled potatoes; beat four eggs, mix with a pint of good milk, stir in the potatoes; sugar and seasoning to taste; butter a dish; bake half an hour. Potato Pudding, Nice.—To half a pound mashed potatoes add two ounces butter, two eggs, a gill of milk, three table- spoonfuls of sherry, a little salt, juice and minced rind of a small lemon, four ounces sugar; beat all together; put in a but- tered dish, and bake a little more than half an hour. Potato Pudding, Boiled.—Boil four large floury potatoes till they are thoroughly done; peel them and mash them smooth with the back of a spoon; mix them with enough milk to en- able you to rub them through a sieve, then add six ounces of butter, first melted, four ounces of sugar, a wine-glass of brandy, four well-beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pound of washed cur- rants. Put it into a buttered mould, and boil it for forty min- utes. Serve with wine sauce poured over it. Potato and Carrot Pudding, Boiled.—Potatoes, carrots, bread crumbs, or flour, &c., each four ounces; sugar, one to four ounces; butter, two to four ounces; currants or raisins, four to eight ounces; lemon rind, two ounces; nutmeg and cinnamon together, half an ounce. Wash and grate the vegetables, and