101 HOW TO COOK. warm, as will make a nice stiff dough for bread; bake in pan; it will take two hours. Bread Apple Cake.—Well-butter a tart-dish of any size, about three inches deep, cut some slices of bread quarter of an inch thick, which lay in it so that the bottom and sides are quite covered, stew some apple nearly dry, put it on the bread until the dish is full, cover over with more butter and bread, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour; remove it from the dish; turn over, and dish it up with sugar on the top. How to Toast Bread.—Procure a loaf that has been baked one or two days, then with a sharp knife cut the slices about half an inch thick. Have a clear fire; place a slice of the bread upon a toasting-fork, about an inch from one of the sides, hold it a minute before the fire, then turn it, hold it another minute, by which time the bread will be thoroughly hot, then begin to move it gradually to and fro until the whole surface has assumed a yellowish-brown colour, then turn it again, toasting the other side in the same manner; lay it then upon a hotplate, have some fresh or salt, and rather soft, butter, spread a piece over, and cut the toast into four or six pieces; six such slices take about a quarter of a pound of butter. French Toast.—Dip slices of bread into a batter made of three eggs and one pint of milk; place them in a pan of boil- ing oil or butter, and fry brown. Sprinkle sugar and cinna- mon on each piece, and serve hot. Johnny Cakes.—Sift a quart of Indian corn meal into a p'an; make a hole in the middle, and pour in a pint of warm water. Mix the meal and water gradually in a batter, adding a tea- spoonful of salt; beat it very quickly, and for a long time, till it becomes quite light; then spread it thick and even on a stout piece of smooth board or sheet iron, or back of a large plate or tin pan; place it upright on the hearth before a clear fire, with something to support it behind, and bake it well; cut it into squares, and split and butter them hot. Indian Bannock.—One pint of Indian com meal, one quart of milk; boil the milk, and scald the meal thoroughly; beat up three eggs; thin your dough to a batter with cold milk; add a piece of butter half as large as an egg; put in your eggs with a little salt; pour in shallow pans, and bake brown. This is a delicious breakfast cake.