HOW TO COOK. 68 a blade of mace, and some pepper. When all the good is got out of the shells, strain off the liquor, put the lobster into it, thicken it with flour and butter, give it a boil, stir in a glass of white wine, or two spoonfuls of vinegar, and serve it up. Cold Crab.—Pick out all the meat from a fine large crab with a silver fork, take out the meat of the claws and cut it up; take out the contents of the cart, and mix all up together. Make dressing as for salad, mix enough with the crab to fla- vour it thoroughly, put it back into the cart, piling it up in the centre, and garnish round the edge with sliced lemon cut in quarters. Buttered Crab.—Pick the meat out of a large crab, cut it into small pieces, and mix all well together with bread-crumbs and a little minced parsley, equal to a third of the crab in quantity ; mix in bits of butter here and there, season it with pepper, salt, and cayenne, to taste, pack it into the cart, and squeeze over it the juice of a lemon, or drop in a spoonful of lemon pickle or vinegar. Cover the top with a thick layer of bread-crumbs, put small bits of butter all over, and bake either in a moderate oven or before the fire. Stewed Oysters.—Strain the liquor of the oysters, to make sure it is quite clean; put it into a stew-pan with a little beaten mace, thicken it with flour and butter, and let it boil three or four minutes. In the meantime toast bread, and lay it in three-cornered bits round the dish intended for the oysters. Put into the stew-pan a spoonful of cream, and the oysters, shake them round, and let them stew until they are quite hot, but do not let them boil, or they will be hard and small. Canned oysters are done in the same manner; first boil the liquor, thicken a little, or add hot milk, and season; then add the oysters, bring to the boil, and serve. Scalloped Oysters.—Ingredients; Four to six dozen oysters, grated biscuit, three ounces of butter, a little flour, salt, and pepper. Scald the oysters lightly in their own liquor. Take them out with a fork, arrange in basin with layers of grated biscuit, bits of butter, salt, and pepper. Hub a little flour into the rest of the butter, stir into the oyster liquor, fill up the basin and brown in the oven. Broiled Oysters.—Large oysters, of a mild flavour, like the Americans, are excellent, dipped in biscuit powder, or fine bread-crumbs, broiled on a double gridiron to a light brown, dipped in, or brushed over with butter, and served on toast.