21 HOW TO COOK. ing. Many know what nice tarts and puddings and syrups can be made of the blackberries or brambleberries found in every hedge, but few are aware of the delightful flavour of ripe stewed, or baked elder-berries. When fresh fruits cannot be had, there should be an abun- dant supply, dried, canned, bottled, or otherwise preserved. Normandy pippins, which are dried whole and packed in baskets, make excellent tarts and puddings. It is best to cut out the cores. In America great quantities of apples are pared with machines, quartered, cored, strung on twine and dried in the sun, or by being hung near the ceilings of warm rooms. France supplies us with dried plums—prunes—of various quali- ties which retail for from 4d. to Is. a pound. Soaked in water over night, and then slowly stewed with a little sugar, they make an excellent and very healthful sauce. They may also be used after soaking, like fresh plums, in puddings or tarts. Figs are not often cooked, but the dried ones are nice soaked out in boiling water, or hot milk, and also make a delicious pudding, chopped with bread crumb, flour, milk, and eggs. Melons need no cookery; but squashes and vegetable marrow peeled, boiled, and either served in large pieces with white sauce, or mashed with butter or cream, are very nice. Pies are made of squashes and pumpkins, with eggs and milk, flavoured with ginger and nutmeg. Pumpkin and vegetable marrow are also a good basis for soups. Tomatoes grown in England have not the high flavour of those produced in America or the south of France, but they make an excellent dish, raw, with salt, sugar, and vinegar, stewed, baked, or broiled. They are dried with sugar like figs, made into rich preserves, and also into tomato sauce or ketchup. The Egg Plant, seldom seen in England, is a great favourite in America, where it is cut in slices, dipped in batter and fried. Cucumbers are sometimes cooked in a similar manner. Okra, a plant with glutinous pods of delicious flavour, is much used in America in soups, stews, salads, &c. FARINACEA. We come now to the seeds of grasses and leguminous plants, which furnish a large portion of the food of the whole human