27 HOW TO COOK. composed of fibrine, albumen, gelatine, fat, and certain salts, as soda, potass, &c. The fibrine or muscular matter is the same, chemically, as the gluten of wheat, the albumen of eggs, or caseine of milk. The Extract or Essence of Meat, Liebig’s, &c., is only the salts and flavouring matter of meat, separated from the fibrine, gelatine, and fat, which are thrown away. It contains very little nutriment; and can contain only its actual weight. It is of no use but to give a pleasant flavour to other food. Of course, a teaspoonful of Liebig cannot be more than a tea- spoonful of nutritive, or tissue-forming matter. In fact, it contains scarcely any; and it is rather a stimulant or condi- ment than actual food. Meat should be bright and fresh in colour, plump and elastic to the touch, neither pale, nor flabby, nor glutinous. The legs of fowls should be shining, and their combs full and red. For Soups and Stews meat should be put into cold water, heated slowly, and allowed to barely simmer for a long time, so as to dissolve the fibres and extract the juices. When it is to be eaten solid, it should be plunged into plenty of boiling water, and kept boiling, skimming, as needful in both cases, until done. By this process av sort of case is formed over the meat and loss prevented. Roasting should be done before a bright fire, near at first, then farther removed, with the joint slowly turning on a spit or suspended by a string, dredged with flour, and basted with the gravy falling in the dish below, until fairly cooked. Ten dishes of meat are baked to one that is roasted. The rule of baking is the same as roasting. The meat should be well but not over done; and the more hot air is let in to the oven, the better the flavour. Baked meat, like roast, is the juicier for a good dredging and basting; and for being begun in a pretty hot oven. The rule for broiling is often quoted from Shakespeare:— “ If ’twere done when 'tis done, then ’twere well it were done quickly.” A steak should be done over a very clear hot fire, turned five or six times, or as often as it drips, done through, but not allowed to dry up or burn. Beef and Mutton grow tender by keeping. They may be kept in a dry room, cold to near the freezing point, for weeks or months. A dry box in an ice house would be an excellent meat safe.