123 HOW TO COOK. Croutes aux Abricots (Apricot Tarts).—Halve and stone some apricots; place each half with the inside uppermost upon a thin square-shaped piece of bread; fit them into the bottom of a well-buttered tart-dish, lay a piece of butter upon each, sprinkle them with sugar, and bake them for half an hour in a moderate oven; when done, arrange them carefully in a dish, pour over them the syrup they made in cooking, and serve hot. Peaches, large plums, and pears may be done thus. Dried Apples, Dried Peaches.—All dried fruits require to be well soaked in water, and then stewed with such addition of sugar or flavouring as may be required. Prunes, or Dried French Plums, can be bought up wholesale for about 2£d, or 3d. a pound. Soaked or stewed slowly with a little sugar, they make an excellent breakfast dish. The American canned peaches are put up before they are ripe, and require to be stewed a very little with some addition of loaf sugar. It is generally enough to boil up the juice with some sugar, and pour the syrup over the peaches. Dried Pears, French, and dried peaches, American, stewed like prunes, are delicious. Dried Figs, picked over, and washed, may be soaked in boil- ing water, or put in a pan with milk enough to cover them, simmered until tender, and in either case set away to cool. They need no sugar. American Apple Pies are baked in round shallow plates, with a bottom and top crust, and less than an inch thick; the apples being pared and sliced in with sugar, bits of butter, and cinnamon, lemon peel, or other flavouring, American Pumpkin Pies are made shallow, with only an undercrust. The pumpkin is stewed, then beaten with milk and eggs, and flavoured with ginger and spices. The squash or vege able marrow, or grated carrots or apples, may be used instead of pumpkin. Strawberry Short Cake.—Beat one tablespoonful of butter, t wo of white sugar, and one egg to a cream, and mix with a pint of flour, in which you have put the proper quantity of baking powder, adding milk enough to make a moderately stift dough. Bake in a thin sheet in a quick oven. When cold, cut into squares of a convenient size, and arrange cake and