HOW TO COOK. 86 When nearly done, pour the hot butter on the yolks until they are set. Scrambled Eggs have a nicer flavour than fried ones. Tut a lump of butter, a little salt and pepper, or a pinch of powdered sweet herbs into a frying-pan or sauce-pan; break in the eggs and stir them over a gentle fire until they are barely set. Turn out quickly into a hot dish and serve. Baked Eggs, CEufs sur plat, are very nice if not overdone. Break the eggs into a buttered dish which will bold the number required without spreading, lying side by side nearly in their proper shapes; sprinkle salt and a little pepper over them, and some bits of butter; set them in a gentle oven, and remove as soon as they are barely done through, and while the whites are still a semi-transparent jelly. Or they may be done on the hot plate and finished at the top with a hot shovel or salamander. Fondue—Eggs and Cheese.—Add to well-beaten eggs one- third their weight of grated cheese, and one-twelfth of butter, broken in bits; stir with a wooden spoon over the fire in a lined sauce-pan until they are thick and soft, add a little pepper and salt if needed. It must be very hot, but must not boil. Serve on a hot plate. One egg to each person. Poached Eggs on toast, or with spinach, are very nice eating. Have some water about an inch deep, in which you have put a little salt and a dash of vinegar, simmering in a shallow sauce-pan or frying-pan; break each egg into a basin, so as to keep the yolk whole, and slide it carefully into the water; or, better, break each egg into a tea cup, and quickly turn tlie cup over, so that it stands bottom up in the water with the egg inside. In a minute the egg will be set so as to preserve its round shape; remove the cups, keep the water at the simmering point, and remove each egg, as soon as white and yolk are well set, to the toast, which should be buttered, and a little soaked, and placed in a hot covered dish. Omelets— In France everybody can make an omelet, in England almost nobody. Break, and put in a basin, say five eggs, removing the whites of two; or, as some prefer, keeping all the whites and adding a tablespoonful of milk for each egg. Some beat in butter, crumbled into bits. Put in a little salt, pepper, sweet herbs, if liked, and beat, all thoroughly. Some beat the yolks and whites separately, and then mix them Tliis makes the omelet lighter. Have now a perfectly clean