54 HOW TO COOK. ment. The most nutritious bases for soups are barley, peas, beans, and lentils; a well-browned crust of bread gives colour and nutriment. The cheapest vegetables of the markets—even the stalks and tops thrown away as refuse, have only to be carefully picked and washed to make very good food. A very palatable and nourishing thick soup can be made for considerably less than a penny a quart. Rice, Macaroni, or Vermicelli Soups.—Have a clear veget- able, or meat, or fish soup boiling, and into it drop rice pre- viously boiled or well soaked so as to quickly boil soft: or short lengths of boiled, or partly boiled macaroni; or broken vermicelli, which should always be dropped in boiling liquid to prevent it from sticking together. When tender, season and serve. Clear Vegetable Soup.—Cut into small dice about half a pound of carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, and put them in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of raw sugar; put on the fire, stir often, and when no moisture is seen, add three pints of clear broth; simmer and skim until the carrots are tender, and serve. Jerusalem artichokes, green peas, brocoli, Brussels sprouts, small asparagus chopped, and almost any nice vegetables may be used in the same way. Vegetable Soup.—Peel and cut up very fine three onions, three turnips, one carrot, and four potatoes, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a bunch of parsley, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire; then add a good spoonful of flour, mix well in, moisten with two quarts of vegetable broth, and a pint of boiling milk, boil up, keeping it stirred, season with a little salt and sugar, and rub through a hair sieve, put it into another stewpan, boil again, skim and serve with fried bread in it. Count Rumford’s Soups, on which he fed some twelve hundred beggars in Munich, while they were taught to work, at an expense of less than half a penny each per day—fuel and service included—were not only astonishingly cheap, but very palatable and nutritious. I take one formula from “ How to Live on Sixpence a-Day.” Boil slowly 8 oz. of barley and G oz. of peas in 4 quarts of water until they are tender, which will take several hours; add 1£ lbs. of peeled potatoes, 1 oz. salt, £ teaspoonful of pepper.