now TO COOK. 58 dripping, if for white soup put them into the kettle without frying; season them with mace, pepper, and salt; put in also an onion stuck with three cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots cut up, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover the kettle close and let it simmer two hours, thicken the soup by dusting in it a little dry flour, if it require it, and serve. Skate Soup.—Make the stock by boiling down the skate with onions, pepper, salt, and spice (if approved) to taste. Strain off the broth, and boil in a tureen of soup an ounce of vermicelli until it is tender Beat up the yolks of two eggs, beat into them half a pint of cream or good milk, stir them into the soup near but not on the fire, until they thicken it enough, and serve it poured over a hot French roll, or toast, laid in the tureen. French Soup, or Pot au Feu—Bouillon et Bouilli.—Put a gallon of water in the pot, with four pounds of the buttock of beef, or shin, or five pounds of the thick part of the leg, three teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, four onions, four leeks cut in pieces, two carrots, and two good-sized turnips, three cloves, one burnt onion, or three spoonfuls of colouring; set it on the fire; when beginning to scum, skim it, and place the pot on one side of the fire. Add now and then a drop of cold water; it will make it clear. Simmer four hours. Slice some bread, put into the tureen, and pour the broth, with some of the vegetables, over; serve the meat separate, and the remain- ing vegetables round. The proper PotauFeu, however, is a pot, well covered—an earthen one is best—into which the waste bits and scraps of meat and poultry, bones, &c.; crusts, vegetables, pulse, are kept simmering to form the stock broth for the daily soup, to make more rich and savoury stew or ragout, and to season vegetables. The cost is almost nothing, yet it is the basis of French cookery. Stock for Clear Soup.—Soyer says—Cut two pounds of knuckle or scrag of veal into small pieces, place them in the iron pot or stewpan, with two ounces of salt butter, three tea- spoonfuls of salt, half a spoonful of pepper, a gill of water, three middle-sized, or six ounces of, onions sliced. Put on the fire; when boiling, stir round with a spoon for about ten minutes, or until it forms a whitish thick gravy at the bottom, or gets rather dry, then add five pints of hot or cold water; when boiling, let it simmer gently for three quarters of an