HOW TO COOK. 47 A boiled enion may be added, and, instead of potatoes, half the quantity of boiled carrots, turnips, beet-root, or Jerusalem artichokes may be used. The greens should have the water well pressed from them. Potatoes, Onions, do.—Boil and mash the potatoes ; boil the onions, and pass them through a sieve; mix the whole well in a stewpan, adding a little butter, and serve while hot. Potato Scones.—Mash boiled potatoes till they are quite smooth, adding a little salt; then knead flour, or barley-meal, to the thickness required; toast on the griddle, pricking with a fork to prevent them blistering. Eat with butter. Potatoes are also used in bread, puddings, pies, soups, stews, in modes which will be found in their several chapters. A Substitute for Potatoes.—Steam or boil one pound of turnips; mash them well over the fire, sprinkling in about two ounces of oatmeal or peas-meal very slowly; put the mixture into a buttered dish, and brown it before the fire or in an oven. A little pepper, salt, and sugar, should be added according to taste. Jerusalem Artichokes can be boiled and eaten like potatoes. Clean, put into warm water, with a little salt, boil till tender, and serve; or mash as soon as done, with salt, pepper, and butter. They can be treated in everyway like turnips, and are nice in soup. Artichokes are boiled like cauliflower; cut off the tops, and trim the leaves, and put them in boiling water, in which you have put salt, pepper, and savoury herbs, if liked. When the leaves come out easily they are done. Serve with melted butter. Turnips should be boiled in plenty of water. To mash, put them in a saucepan over the fire, with a bit of butter, or sour milk, or cream, salt, pepper, aud a pinch of sugar; mash until rather dry, and serve. Turnips, dc., German Style.—Pare and cut into dice six or eight turnips; melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan; put them in and season with salt and pepper; toss over the fire for a few moments, then add half a pint of weak stock, or broth, or milk, and simmer until tender. Brown a tablespoonful of flour with a little butter, add, simmer five minutes, and serve. Jerusalem artichokes, celery, salsify, carrots, may be done in the same way.