14 HOW TO COOK. should give no distinct taste of their own, but only heighten harmonious flavours. It is not that food should not be agreeable to the taste; it is very desirable that it should be; but it is not at all desirable that men should be stimulated into gluttony, and then be obliged to depend upon stimulants to excite their jaded senses. Hunger is the best sauce, and natural flavours sulfice for men with good appetites and good digestions. Sugar enters very largely into our cookery, in combination with flour, rice, tapioca, fruit, eggs, &c. Many of the fruits of tliis northern clime need fire to ripen them, and sugar to sweeten them. But sugar may also be used with advantage to make more palatable and nutritious many of our vegetables. A teaspoon ful of sugar in a dish of green peas, boiled in a very little water, makes them wonderfully more delicious. The same with asparagus. Any vegetable wanting in sweet- ness will be improved by this addition. Soyer makes brown sugar a part of the foundation of most of his soups. It may require to be balanced by a dash of vinegar, but out of the two comes a delightful flavour; and not* mere flavour, for sugar is food as well. And a teaspoonful of sugar is one of the ingredients of a salad dressing. In fact, there are few dishes in which sugar cannot be used, at the proper stage of preparation, with advantage. Not in meat dishes, you think; but what of sugar-cured hams? If in a soup, why not in a ragout? I have proved elsewhere that the average Briton can, so far as food and drink are concerned, live very comfortably on sixpence a-day; but in this book I have, to suit all tastes, given recipes which belong to a much more expensive style of living and cookery; yet the economical housewife who reads it will see her way to great elegance and economy united. For the greatest economics, however, we must come to the purchase and preparation of food on a large scale, and to some form of associated or co-operative house-keeping. If from twenty to a hundred families, living in the same neighbour- hood, were to unite, they could buy everything at an average reduction of 20 to 30 per cent., have one kitchen instead of from twenty to a hundred, one head cook, and from t\yo to five assistants, and savings which would make an aggregate reduc- tion of 30 to 50 per cent., while the food might be better prepared and more satisfactory. And what a saving of time, trouble, fuss, and worry!