HOW TO COOK. 114 FRUIT PUDDINGS. These may be made of apples, pears, quinces, plums, berries, in a great variety of ways, and are bealtliy and delicious. Many can be made without either milk or eggs. Brown Betty.—Pare and slice eight large apples; arrange in deep basin or tart dish; first a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of apples, over which strew brown-sugar and bits of but- ter ; then layer of crumbs, and so on until the dish is full. Pour over a small teacup of water; then cover the whole with a close layer of thin slices of buttered bread; press a dinner plate firmly over, and bake slowly. May be served with or without cream and sugar. Roman Brown Betty.—Make apple sauce in the usual way, well sweetened and flavoured to taste. Good apples require none but their own, but a quince, pear, lemon, orange, cinna- mon or ginger, may be used if liked; butter a round pudding dish, cover the bottom and sides with buttered slices of bread, brown or white—the butter outside; fill with the apple sauce; cover with bread and butter the sauce; put a plate, over and bake in a slow oven an horn' or more—the longer the better; turn out on a dish and serve with hard or wine sauce. These may also be boiled in a basin covered with a cloth. Bird's Nest Pudding.—Pare and core some apples, and fill the cavities with raspberry or strawberry jam or marmalade: border a dish with paste, put in the apples, leaving a little space between them, and fill it up with boiled rice or soaked tapioca, or sago; sift sugar over, and bake one hour at a tolerable heat. Or, pare and core; fill cavities with sugar; place them in a buttered pie-dish, pour over them a nice light batter, and bake at a moderate heat. Apple Pudding, Boiled.—Make a good paste; roll it flat; pare, core, and cut up your apples ; put them in a heap upon the paste; sweeten well; close the whole carefully, and boil it, tied in a cloth, two hours; when done, lift a bit of the crust, la v in some butter and serve hot. Model for every kind of fruit puddings. Apple-Sago Pudding.—Large apples four, sago 5 oz., sugar and lemon flavour to taste. Prepare the apples as for apple sauce; boil the sago in a small quantity of water; addHlie apples, sugar, and flavour, and bake in a pie-dish.