HOW TO COOK. 105 PUDDINGS. Puddings made of eggs, milk, sugar, butter, and flour, meal, bread, rice, tapioca, sago, fruit, &c., are nutritious, healthful, and to a simple taste, delicious forms of food. They are boiled, steamed, or baked; boiling and steaming requiring about double the time of baking. To make them light, the eggs should be thoroughly beaten, and a shilling egg-beater will save a great deal of time and labour. The eggs become a mass of air vesicles which make puddings, cakes, fritters, &c., light or spongy. A little baking powder, rubbed into the flour, answers a similar purpose, but, of course, adds no nutrition. A rich pudding, that is one containing plenty of eggs, butter, or milk, sugar, and flavouring articles, requires no sauce. A fruit pudding requires none, if properly sweetened; but very plain puddings, and even plain boiled rice, or boiled or steamed wheat, cracked wheat, plain batter puddings, dumplings, &c., can be made delicious by a good pudding sauce. Several de- lightful pudding sauces will be found in the chapter on sauces, flavours, &c. In choosing a sauce for a pudding, consider what it requires, what will harmonise best with its ingredients, whether it needs sweet, acid, spice, or fruit flavour; if the right one does not suggest itself, experiment.—(See Sauces.) For fruit puddings, the fruit should be carefully selected and prepared. Apples should be pared, cored, and either used whole, cut in quarters or sliced, chopped or grated. When used whole, the centres may be filled with butter and sugar, marmalade, jam, &c. If the apples are very sour, they need plenty of sugar; if lacking in flavour, lemon juice, lemon peel, or cinnamon, will improve them. Winter pears or quinces may be used with apples. Prunes should be simmered and stoned. Simmering the kernels with the fruit, or bruising them, and putting them in the pudding, improves the flavour. Figs may be used with some apples, and both be improved. Fruit pud- dings are made by surrounding the fruit with a paste crust, and then boiling, steaming, or baking them; by putting it in layers with bread crumb, or boiled wheat, barley, or rice; or by mixing them together; or the dish may be lined, and the fruit covered with thin slices of bread and butter. Pears, apples, and hard fruits require a long slow baking, unless pre- viously stewed. Sago, tapioca, and all kinds of seeds should be washed and