HOW TO COOK. 107 mix with the rest; put into a mould or basin, and boil or steam three hours or more. Carrot Pudding.—Mashed potatoes four ounces, boiled car- rots two ounces, flour four ounces, currants and raisins four ounces of each, sugar three ounces, butter two ounces, a little nutmeg and a very little salt. Bruise and beat the carrots to a paste, mix the whole well, and boil it in a cloth from two to four hours. One egg would improve it. Or carrots and bread crumbs each four ounces, eggs one to three, sugar one to four ounces, butter one to four ounces; milk one quarter to three quarters of a pint. Mix well and bake. Parsnip Pudding.—Parsnips boiled, and the water squeezed from them, four ounces, yolks of eggs two, bread crumbs four ounces, a little cream. Mash the parsnips well, and add the other ingredients. Make the mixture sweet or savoury, as may be desired; beat the whole well together; line a dish with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Boiled rice or rice flour may also be added. Parsnips and potatoes, or parsnips, beans and rice may be used in the same way. Apple-Potato Pudding.—Boil six potatoes and mash them, add a little salt, two ounces butter, and flour enough to roll out like a good pastry crust. Into this put eight to twelve peeled and sliced apples, roll up, and steam one hour. Serve with sweet liquid sauce. Asparagus or Green Pease Pudding.—Put one half pint of asparagus cut up the size of peas, or as much green peas in a basin, with four well beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one ounce butter ; pepper and salt to taste. Add milk enough to make a thick batter. Put it in a buttered mould or dish, tie down with a floured cloth, place in boiling water, and boil two hours, Turn out on a hot dish, and pour plain melted but- ter round it. Bread Pudding.—Cut bread, and butter thin, place it in a pie-dish, lightly, three-parts full; break into a basin one egg, add two teaspoonfuls of flour, three of brown sugar; mix all well together, add to it by degrees a pint of milk, a little salt; pour over the bread ; bake about half an hour. This may be done in twenty different ways, by varying the flavour of the ingredients, as lemon-peel, orange-peel, nutmeg, cinnamon, or mixed spice, or essences of any kind. Dates, or French plums, or figs, previously soaked and cut, may be added.