HOW TO COOK. 79 nearly an hour. If done in a floured cloth, they are whiter. Serve with white, parsley, celery, or mushroom sauce. Roasted Chickens are done in the same way as roasted turkey. Chicken, Fricasseed.—Carve into joints, parboil in boiling water two or three minutes; take out, and plunge into cold water to make them white. Put the giblets, with the head and legs into a stew-pan, add a bunch of parsley and green onions, or a chopped onion, a clove, two blades of mace, a shallot, a bay leaf, salt and pepper to taste, with the water in which the chicken was parboiled; simmer an hour. Into another saucepan put the pieces of chicken, two ounces of butter, dredge with flour, and let them get very hot, but not brown ; moisten with gravy from the trimmings, and stew gently half an hour. Now put the chicken in another saucepan, skim the sauce and reduce it by rapid boiling, and strain over the chicken; add one-quarter pint of cream ; season, let it boil up, stir in two or three eggs till they tliicken, but they must not boil. Goose, Roasted.—Select a goose with a clean white skin, plump breast, and yellow feet; prepare and truss, and stuff with sage and onions, or apples, onions, sage, or potatoes, and any seasoning liked, and roast one and a half to two hours before a good fire. The giblets may be stewed for a gravy. Ducks are prepared, stuffed and roasted, like geese. Goose Stuffing.—Peel and cut in two, crossways, four large- sized onions, weighing altogether about one pound; slice fine, put in a pan two ounces of butter; add the onions chopped with two teaspoonfuls of sage if green, three if dry, one of salt, one of brown sugar, half one of pepper. Set this on a slow fire, letting it stew for fifteen to twenty minutes; then while hot, stuff your bird. This may be done in winter a few days before it is put to the spit, as it imparts to the goose a nice savoury flavour. To vary it add four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, or two of broken biscuit, or four of chopped apples, or four of rice, or four of cold boiled potatoes, or a little chopped lemon, or a little herbs of almost any kind, or chopped boiled beetroot. Other stuffings are made with potatoes, bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs.