64 HOW TO COOK. A nice way to cook salt cod for breakfast is to broil it first, then lay it in a basin with the skin upwards, pour boiling water over it, and let it soak for a little time. If the fish is very salt, put fresh boiling water upon it, then lay it in a dish, skin down, before the fire, and rub butter over it, or pour over cream, or melted butter. French Ways of Dressing Salt Fish.—For cod au blanc soak the tail of a salt cod, separate the flakes, make a sauce of cream, butter, and flour, a little parsley chopped fine, pepper, and salt. When this is well mixed, put in the cod, let it sim- mer very gently for a quarter of an hour, and serve it very hot. For cod au vert jire cook the fish with milk, butter, and sweet herbs, arrange it on a dish, strew over it parsley chopped very fine, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and serve it hot, without any other sauce. Cod au beurre roux, boil a piece of cod and separate it into flakes. Brown some butter, dredge in a little flour and a little sugar in powder, and in this fry some slices of onion to a fine brown. Throw in a tablespoonful of vinegar, give a boil up, pour over the fish, and serve garnished with crisped parsley. Broiled Cod Sounds.—Lay them a few minutes in hot water If fresh, rub them with a little salt, clean them until they look white, and give them a gentle boil. Take up, dry, flour, sprinkle salt and pepper, and broil them. Serve with melted butter and mustard, or whatever sauce may be preferred. Fricasseed Cod Sounds.—Clean the sounds well, boil them in milk and water, and drain them. Put them into a clean saucepan, season them with pepper, salt, a little mace, and a little nutmeg, pour in a cup of cream or good rich milk, thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and keep shaking the saucepan until the contents are hot and thick. Then pour them into a dish, and garnish with pieces of lemon. Cod sounds may be simply boiled in milk and water, and served with egg sauce. Boiled Turbot.—Clean the fish, but do not leave it to lie in water; rub it over with vinegar to make the flesh firm Put it into the kettle when the water boils, with the white side upwards, with salt and vinegar in the wrater, let it boil gently, and skim the pot whenever the scum rises. Half an hour to three-quarters will cook a moderate-sized fish. Slip the turbot off the fish-plate with great care to avoid breaking it, and