HOW TO COOK. 12S almost every French dinner. The Germans are fond of them, and they are slowly coming into fashion in England. It is said that a noble French refugee from the Revolution of 1793 (Soyer says an Italian Count) made a handsome fortune in London by going to the houses of the nobility and dressing- salads. Before that time salads were eaten with the simple, and perhaps more healthful, dressing of sugar and vinegar. Salads are composed of fresh and tender leaves of the let- tuce, endive, dandelion, water-cresses, mustard, common cress, young onions, radishes, both root and top, marigold, nasturtium leaves and flowers, cold boiled potatoes, boiled beet root, boiled French beans, cucumbers, &c. A Spanish proverb says a salad dressing requires a spendthrift for oil, a judge for salt, a miser for vinegar, and a madman to mix them. There are two ways of dressing a salad. One is to sprinkle the condiments over the lettuce, &c.; the other to thoroughly mix the ingredients of the dressing, and mix it with the salad afterward. We will give both ways. Coss Lettuce.—Take two large lettuces, remove the faded leaves and the coarse green ones, then cut the green top off. pull each leaf off separate, cut it lengthways, and then in four or six pieces; proceed thus until finished. This is better without washing. Having cut it all up put it into a bowl; sprinkle over with your finger a small teaspoonful of salt, half one of pepper, three of oil, and two of English vinegar, or one of French; with the spoon and fork turn the salad lightly in the bowl till well mixed; the less it is handled the better; a teaspoonful of chopped chervil and one of tarragon is an im- mense improvement. Soyer gives the above as the method of his Italian Count. I will give my own way. Salad Dressing.—Take the yolk of a hard boiled egg and mash it soft; a teaspoonful of brown sugar, a bit of mealy potato as large as a walnut, a small teaspoonful of salt, do. of made mustard, French preferred, a dust of pepper, the yolk of a raw egg, mix thoroughly, and add two great spoonfuls of per- fectly sweet olive oil, pouring it in slowly, and working it in thoroughly; add now and mix well a tablespoonful of vinegar, or more according to the strength. Some add a very little chopped onion, parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Cream may take the place of the oil. This dressing is to be poured over and well mixed with the salad.