104 HOW TO COOK. with barley flour, is a very agreeable aperient for children, much better than medicine; but coarse wheat porridge is still better. Macaroni.—Put a quarter of a pound of macaroni in boiling water; simmer till it is quite tender, but not too soft. Pour olf the water, place the macaroni in a basin; add half a pint of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, one ounce grated cheese; strew fine bread-crumbs thickly over the top. Bake till nicely browned. Or put in an iron pot or stew-pan two quarts of water: let it boil; add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one ounce of butter; then add one pound of macaroni, boil till tender; let it be rather firm to the touch; it is then ready for use, either for soup, pud- ding, or to be dressed with cheese. Drain it in a colander; put it back in the pan, add four ounces of cheese or more, a little butter, salt, and pepper; toss it well together and serve. It will be found light and nutritious, and well worthy the no- tice of vegetarians. Some prefer salad oil to butter. Or, take macaroni, four ounces; milk, one pint; ground rice, a large tablespoonful; cheese, grated or in thin slices, four ounces; butter, half an ounce; cayenne, grated nutmeg, and salt, a little of each. Boil the macaroni in the milk till tender, then add the rice, previously mixed with a little cold milk or water; stir it well, then add the cheese, butter, pepper, &c. When the whole has been well mixed, and the milk has been ab- sorbed, put it in a buttered dish; strew bread-crumbs and a few small pieces of butter over it, and brown it with a salaman- der or in an oven. It must be boiled in a double sauce-pan, or well watched and shaken to prevent burning. Those who can- not take cheese will find maccaroni simply boiled, with a little oil, butter, cream, or milk added, and seasoned to taste, excel- lent, and very nutritious. In America, Indian corn or maize furnishes a number of excellent dishes, besides the cakes already given. The half ripe sweet corn is roasted, or boiled on the cob, and eaten with butter and salt, or it is grated off and made into fritters. Boiled young corn may be found in London in tins, also Lima beans, and a mixture of corn and beaus, called succotash. Sweet corn is also dried, but preserved in any way, it loses much of its flavour. Maize is also hulled and boiled whole, or cracked or coarsely ground, and eaten as a vegetable, like rice or macar oni, or with milk or syrup. Indian meal mush, the Italian polenta, when cold, is cut in slices and fried, and eaten with syrup.