53 HOW TO COOK. For thickening soups use wheat flour, rice flour, arrowroot, corn starch (or corn flour, as it is called), potato flour, &c. Flour or starchy thickening should be mixed with the sugar, salt, spices, ketchup, &c., and then with enough of cold liquid, the soup, or browning, to make a thin batter. Stir it into the hot soup, stir and simmer ten minutes, and serve. An ounce or two of sugar, and about the same of salt, may be added to each gallon of soup, with a gill of vinegar—but the taste of a good cook must decide as to quantities, and it is always best to rather under than over-season, as more can be added. Toma- toes and lemon-juice supply more delicate acids than vinegar. Celery vinegar gives a double and delightful flavour. The broths or foundations of vegetable soups may be pre- pared from— 4 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 heads celery, 4 onions, a slice of toasted bread, 4 qts. water; or, 1 turnip, 1 carrot, 1 head celery, 4 oz. onions, 3 oz. butter, 1 pint peas, crust of toasted bread, 4 qts. water; or, 6 potatoes, G onions, six carrots, 4 turnips, 3 celery heads, 4 oz. butter, or brown toast, 4 qts. water. To make, put the prepared vegetables into the cold water, heat slowly and simmer, until they are reduced to a pulp, skimming well at first; then pass the whole through a colander, then a sieve. If a broth is wanted for clear soup, let it settle and turn off the liquid. The sediment will do for thick soup, or stews. Or, in Soyer’s fashion, put butter and sugar in a stewpan, add the sliced vegetables, stew them carefully till tender and browned, then add boiling water, bread, boiled peas, &c., sim- mer, skim, season, strain or decant, and serve. Nice stock for soups is made of sago, tapioca, arrowroot, salep, Irish moss, as well as isinglass, fish, beef, veal, mutton, &c. Any of these may be extended and varied with Jerusalem artichokes, vegetable marrow’, potatoes, and similar vegetables. Clear soups commonly have an addition of green peas, chopped asparagus, macaroni, rice, or sippets of fine bread, to make them more substantial. The macaroni, or rice, should be boiled previously; the peas, if large; but the others can be dropped into the boiling soup, and cooked in ten or fifteen minutes. The clever cook or housewife will have no difficulty in making a hundred excellent soups without ever calling on the butcher. Flesh meat, when used in soups, is more for flavour than nutri-