HOW TO COOK. 77 to taste, and let it simmer gently for a half hour. Pack closely in a stone jar, pour melted butter or dripping over, and keep in a cool place. Hashed Beef or Mutton.—Meat that has been already cooked ought to be under-done to make a good hash. It should be cut into thin slices, seasoned with pepper and salt, and the skin, bones, and gristle, should be taken off, and made into gravy, as follows:—Put a bit of butter with a little flour and a table- spoonful of broth or water into a stew-pan; cut a couple of onions into slices, and add them to it, and brown them lightly; next put in the bones, and pieces of meat not wanted for the hash ; add a piclded onion, walnut, or gherkin, and a sprig or or two of sweet herbs; pour in as much w'ater as is wanted, and let the whole stew until you have made a good gravy. Strain it, season it with a little ketchup, tomato sauce, or vinegar. Pour it over the slices of meat in the stew-pan, and let it sim- mer only just long enough to warm the meat through. Serve up with toasted bread in the dish. Observe, that if the meat which has been already cooked once is cooked a second time by hashing it, the less the hash is done the better; if done too much, the meat cannot fail to be hard, dry, and unsavoury. Frioandeau of Veal.—Cut some slices of the leg, beat them flat, and trim them nicely. Stew the meat until it is quite tender, in as much water as will just cover it; take it up when done, and put it by, near the fire. Add some sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and mace, to the gravy, with tomato or sorrel, or other sauce; let it boil up quickly, and strain it over the veal. Jugged Hare.—Skin and thoroughly clean the hare, cut it up as to serve at table, make some stuffing into balls, as if for roasting, adding seasoning, &c., and put the whole into an earthen jar large enough to hold it conveniently. Put a pint and a half of good beef gravy into it; add, if you like, the juice of a Seville orange, and a bit of thin lemon-peel. Tie the jar down tight, and let it stew in a saucepan of boiling water up to the neck for three hours. When served up, the gravy may be flavoured with wine, &c., according to taste, and may also be thickened with flour and butter. Irish Stew.—Cut three pounds of mutton into convenient pieces, pare and halve five pounds of potatoes, slice five large onions; put in a stew-pan, laying first potatoes, then mutton, then onions, with salt and pepper for each, topping with onions