43 HOW TO COOK. quarter pound of loaf-sugar. Claret, or home-made wine will do for this sauce. Sultana Sauce.—Put two dessert-spoonfuls of water into a small saucepan; when it boils, add a quarter pound of butter ; stir it round one way until the butter is melted; then put in two ounces of sultana raisins that have been swelled in brandy, and serve immediately. Sauce Au Vin.—Pour quarter of a pint of wine upon the yolk of three eggs; beat it together for ten minutes; add sugar, grated lemon-peel, and cinnamon to your taste. Warm, but do not boil it. Cider Sauce.—Simmer a pint of cider and a quarter pound of sugar to a syrup ; add two ounces of butter; make hot, and serve. Rich Wine Sauce—Rub two tablespoonfuls of butter and four of sugar to a cream, and into it stir a cupful of hot water; pour into metal or tinned pan, stirring steadily until it boils ; then one half cup of lemon or fruit juice, or fruit jelly. Give it an- other boil, remove from the fire, add one wine glass of wine and brandy mixed, and serve. If properly served, it will not be oily, and will have a rich foam. Orange Sauce.—Rub together two ounces of butter and one ounce of flour; put into a saucepan, and add the juice of four oranges, with the grated rind of one-half one, and two table- spoonfuls of loaf-sugar. Serve when melted. Fruit Pudding Sauce.—Whip a cup of sugar and a half cup of butter to froth, add a wine-glass of mixed wine and brandy, and into this stir boiling milk, until the sauce is of the consist- ence of thick cream. Stir when serving. Jam Sauce.—Take two good dessert-spoonfuls of jam; stir it over the fire in a glazed saucepan until pretty hot, then add two ounces of fresh butter and a tablespoonful of brandy, wine, cider, or grape-juice: when the butter is melted, serve. Almond Sauce.—Blanch and beat smooth two ounces of sweet almonds ; throw upon them half a pint of boiling milk ; strain it, add a dessertspoonful each of orange-flower water and pow- dered loaf-sugar, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir it over the fire until it is quite hot, but not boiling. Arrowroot Sauce.—Arrowroot, one tablespoonful, water or