108 HOW TO COOK. A Cheap Bread Pudding .—Take some slices of stale bread, free them from crust, and soak them well in cold water ; pi ess ■out the water, add a little salt, ginger, sugar, nutmeg, and a few well-nicked currants; mix the whole well together, lay it in a buttered dish, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and bake forty minutes. Brown Bread Padding.—Cut in slices half a pound brown bread, spread them over with cream, lay them in a buttered dish strew finely-shred candied citron-peel between each slice, pour half a pint of boiled new milk, with some sugar and cin- namon, over the bread, and when nearly cold, beat three eggs and pour into the dish ; bake for half an lionr. Bread and Batter Padding.—Butter a deep basin, line it with slices of bread and butter, and fill with slices laid lightly m, scattering well soaked currants or raisins between the layers. Make a custard of four eggs, and one quart of milk, flavouring it with lemon or mace. Pour over the bread, and bake till the custard is firm. The Queen of Bread Paddings.—Soak one pint of fine bread crumbs in one quart of milk, add the beaten yolks of foui eggs, one teacup brown sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and two ounces of butter. Bake until done, but not watery, vv hip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with the juice of the lemon, and a cup of white sugar. Spread over the pudding a layer of jam, pour the froth over this, and replace in the oven to brown lightly. To be served cold, with or without cream. Bread-and-Batter Pudding, Boiled.—Butter some slices of bread, strew sugar upon them, beat four eggs, dip your biead, and lay the slices in a basin, butter side down; when the basin is about three parts full, pour in a pint of milk, flavour to taste, and, when cold, and the bread swelled, tie a well- floured cloth over it, and boil for an hour. Serve with melted butter. Bread Pudding, Boiled.—Put a pint of new milk in a sauce- pan upon the fire, and stir in four ounces of fresh buttei , as soon as this is melted, throw in as much grated white biead as will make it pretty thick; add four ounces of sugar, salt, ginger, and nutmeg, four beaten eggs, and a spoonful of rose- water; put, in a buttered basin, and boil half an hour. Serve with any sauce preferred. Two ounces of sultana raisins or cleaned currants may be added.