HOW TO COOK. 18 and delicious vegetable, fresh boiled, and eaten hot with a little butter and vinegar. Salsify, sometimes called the Oyster Plant, is cooked and eaten like parsnips, or like asparagus. It is a bland, nice vegetable, and good in soups. Jerusalem Artichokes are boiled, and eaten with melted butter, or cut up and used in soup, in which they are sweet and nutritious. Radishes, though commonly eaten raw with a little salt, or in a salad, are also nice boiled, like artichokes and salsify, or in soups. Potatoes are not properly roots, but tubers, growing from the roots. A potato is a bag of starch, with a small portion of nitrogenous matter. Potatoes are highly nutritious, requir- ing, however, to be combined with other food containing albumen, fibrine, or their equivalents, as bread, milk, cheese, eggs, fish, flesh. Potatoes, from their bland, starchy, sugary character, combine readily with a great number of articles. With flour they make bread and puddings; with meat and fish, excellent and nutritious hashes, stews, fish cakes and puddings; they enter readily into the composition of soups; they are good boiled, roasted, baked, fried, fricasseed, and form the basis of hundreds of dishes. Bulbous Roots—as onions, leeks, garlic, shallots, chives, all possess similar properties, and have been used as food, or as a seasoning to soups and stews, from the remotest antiquity. The onion is very nutritious, containing, dry, from 25 to o'-' per cent, of gluten. The Spanish onions are very large and mild in flavour, and, eaten raw or cooked, form a large part of the nourishment of the Spanish peasantry, a fine muscular people. Garlics, leeks, &c., are chiefly used as flavours. The odorous oil of these vegetables, passing out of the system unchanged through the lungs, skin, &c., renders those who eat onions or garlic very unpleasant to some; but, as with most flavouring substances, they may be used so as to blend softly with other flavours, without producing disgust by the strength of their own. The young shoots of Asparagus, boiled till tender in a very little water, with a little salt and sugar, and served with butter, make a delicate and excellent dish. The young shoots of schoke, or garget, milk weed, and several other plants, are used in the same manner. Leaves, Stalks, d~c.—Of these we have cabbages, Brussels