71 HOW TO COOK. is danger of their drying too much, water should be kept in the baking pan. Most kinds of meat should be carefully basted during the whole of the time they are roasting: and near the close of the roasting they should be dredged with flour, and a little salt sprinkled over them. It should be the object of the cook to send her joint nicely frothed and browned, without being burned. The dripping ought to be kept clean, and preserved for frying, &c. BOILING. In boiling a joint of meat there should be water enough to cover it; it should be boiling when the meat is put in, and brought again slowly to the boil; then it may be removed from the hottest fire and allowed to simmer, so as to do evenly through. All the scum should be carefully removed as it rises, and after skimming, some salt may be put in, and other season- ing if liked. In boiling meat, twenty minutes must be allowed for each pound. The water in which meat is boiled should be used for soup or gravy. All meat loses weight in cooking. In roasting, beef loses 19 per cent.; mutton, 22 to 24 per cent.; chickens, 15; geese, 19; turkeys, 20; ducks, 27 per cent. In boiling, the loss in weight is rather more than half as much as in roasting. GRAVIES. Beef Gravy.—Put some slices of lean beef into a stew-pan, with an onion and a little pepper and salt; cover them with water, take off the scum, and let the gravy simmer until the juice of the meat is wholly extracted. Put a crust of bread toasted brown into it, and strain the gravy when done, Broun Gravy.—Cut a piece of lean beef or veal into thin slices, and put them into a stew-pan, with a bit of butter or a slice of fat bacon, and an onion sliced; brown the meat lightly, and cover it with sufficient water or broth for the gravy; take off the scum, add pepper and salt, sweet herbs, &c., and stew the whole until the meat is thoroughly done. Strain the gravy, and, if you like, thicken it with flour. It may also be flavoured, to suit the dish for which it is required, with ketchup, lemon- juice, cayenne, &c. Gravy for Roast Meat may be made by putting any trim- mings of the joint into a small sauce-pan, and stewing them before the meat is done. Gravy is commonly made by pouring