45 HOW TO COOIC. PREPARATION AND COOKING OF VEGETABLES. Potatoes must take precedence of all so-called vegetables. They are very nutritious, especially abounding in the heat- forming elements, and so agreeable to the appetite that we eat them every day, like bread, without getting tired of them. There are many favourite sorts, some best for boiling, some for baking. The smaller the eye the better the potato. Old potatoes should be peeled, or partly peeled, and soaked some hours in cold water. New potatoes should have their skins rubbed off with a coarse cloth, and a little salt if needed. Some prefer boiling potatoes to steaming them; but steaming is safest. Mrs. Kundell says—“ Boil in plenty of water, and, when half done, throw in some cold water and salt. When nearly done, turn off the water, and let them stand in the open pot near the fire.” Mrs. Glass says—“ Boil in as little water as possible—that is, steam them.” Soyer says, “ Some require to be put in cold, some in boiling water. Choose all about the same size. When they begin to crack, turn off the water immediately; place them near the fire with a cloth over them until dry and done. Salt should be put in at the beginning. A watery potato must be put in boiling water, and well dried when done. A piece of lime in the water is said to make them mealy.” Baked Potatoes, with the skin on, should be chosen a large size (regents), placed in a slow oven, and so that they do not touch: or if in a Dutch or American oven, befoi’e the fire, they should be turned often; they will take from one and a half to two hours. When the skins are, beginning to brown, take up the largest, and feel if it is cooked through the centre. If so, take them out one by one in a towel and break each a littlo open, by grasping it with both hands ; then cover with a cloth and serve as soon as possible. An over-baked potato is spoiled; an unbroken one becomes heavy. Mashed Potatoes.—After having boiled twelve middling- sized potatoes until mealy, peel them, if with the skins on, and remove the eyes or specks; put them into a bowl, and take two forks in one hand, with the points of the prongs turned out- wards, or a wooden fork; bre k the potatoes up with them over the fire; when breaking, add an ounce of butter and a gill of milk or a little more to them, and half a teaspoonful of salt to every pound, and a pinch of pepper: they should be beaten