HOW TO COOK. 76 a little longer time. A bunch of parsley and sweet-herbs may be added, but should be removed when served. The flavour is exquisite, and may be served with vegetables or without, as liked, but then the broth should be strained, and the vegetables served separate, or the broth made into spring or other soups. Haricot Mutton.—Cut breast or scrag of mutton into square pieces, and fry to a nice colour; dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Put in a stew-pan, moisten with boiling water, add an onion stuck with three cloves, a little mace, herbs; simmer till the meat is done, skim off fat, add dice of carrots and turnips fried in sugar; simmer for ten minutes, remove the onions and herbs, and serve. An Excellent Economical Stew.—Take four or five pounds of beef from the cheaper portions of the animal; cut it in small pieces, removing the fat, skin, and gristle. Dip the pieces in vinegar, then place them in the stew-pan, with two onions sliced, six berries of allspice, cover with cold water, and let it stew gently till thoroughly tender. Just before serving, thicken the gravy with one and a half teaspooufuls of flour, and add salt and two ounces of butter. It will take four to six hours. Ragout of Beef.—Cut two pounds of cold roast or boiled beef into rather large pieces, and put them in a sauce-pan, with six onions sliced, with salt, pepper, and mixed spices or herbs to taste; pour over them one-lialf pint boiling -water, and about as much gravy, or lacking the gravy, a pint of water; let the whole stew very gently two hours. Stewecl Shin of Beef.—Saw the bone into four or five pieces, cover with cold water, boil and skim; put in a head of celery cut up, a sliced onion, fagot of herbs, salt, spice, and pepper, and simmer until the meat is tender; cut up four carrots, two turnips, and put them, with twelve button onions, in a sauce- pan, and boil till tender. Take out the meat and keep hot; thicken the gravy with butter and flour worked together; season with mushroom ketchup, or other sauce; give one boil, and pour it over the beef, and garnish with the vegetables. Potted Beef.—Put a beef shank into water sufficient to cover it, and boil until perfectly tender. Remove the meat from the water, and let both meat and water stand untouched over night. Carefully cut away the bone and cartilage from the meat, chop very fine, and replace in the water, whence the fat must have been skimmed; season with salt, pepper, and mace