IIOW TO COOK. 34 -—and the last is obviously the most dangerous—it should be most thoroughly cooked, so as to insure that the germs of tape-worms and trichinae may be cooked also. It is not known what effect heat may have upon scrofula. Beef and Mutton are also liable to disease. Cattle plague has raged for several years in England, and many persons have suffered from eating the flesh or milk of diseased cattle; thousands of sheep are victims to scab, rot, and small- pox. The Government has mercifully appointed inspectors of meat markets, and thousands of tons of meat are seized as being diseased or putrified, and utterly unfit for human food; but there is no likelihood that more.than a mode- rate percentage is ever seized by the inspectors. A much larger quantity is sold to the poor, or made up into sausages. Nor is it always possible to tell what meat is fit or unfit to be eaten. As among the Jews, every animal should be carefully inspected before it is killed, and the meat as carefully examined microscopically and otherwise afterwards. If the flesh of clean and healthy animals is eaten, certain parts of even such animal ought to be avoided. It is not well to eat glandular bodies which are employed in separating impurities from the blood, and casting them out of the system. I cannot, therefore, think it well to eat the kidneys, which separate urine from the blood, nor the liver which frees it from bile, and which is one of the first organs to be diseased. There are few stall-fed animals with entirely healthy livers. The lungs have a similar tendency to disease. The heart, however, seems to be as pure as any portion of the muscles, and the pancreas and stomach—sweetbread and tripe—ought to be as pure as any portion of the body. Some persons eat only the outer carcase, and refuse' all kinds of viscera. If one eat but two meals a day, the best hours would be 9 or 10 a.m., and 3 or 4 p.m. Three meals should divide the day so as to leave an interval of five or six hours between. No hard work, mental or physical, should be done for at least half-an-hour before a meal and an hour after. There must be time for digestion, and the blood and nervous power cannot be called off from the stomach to either the muscles or brain, until digestion is well begun, without injury. For the same reason, no cold bath should be taken either soon before or after eating. I am sometimes asked “ What do you think of Banting?” I think that temperance, exercise, bathing, and the use of