HOW TO COOK. 82 slices, two pounds of potatoes, a quarter of a pound of onions; season with three tcaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper; mix it * well together; put the meat and potatoes into the pie-dish, in alternate layers; add a pint of water; cover with paste, and hake for one hour and a half. Artisans Pie.—Take two pounds of meat, not too fat, cut in slices, season it with three teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, four sliced onions; peel four pounds of potatoes, cut in thick slices, which place on the bottom of the dish, then a layer of potatoes, then the meat; add a pint of water, cover with paste, and bake for two hours. Trimmings of meat of all kinds may he purchased in every large town, especially in London, and are the proper pieces for such economical pies; in buying them, take care there is none tainted. Poor Mans Potato Pie.—Wash and peel six pounds of potatoes, cut them in slices; take half a pound of the fat of mutton or beef, or dripping, cut into small dice; season the whole with a teaspoonful of pepper and three of salt; cover with paste, and bake one hour and a half. A bloater, boned and cut up with the fat, makes a nice change of flavour. Vegetable-Tapioca Pie.—Vegetable -marrow and celery in equal quantities, and one onion boiled; cut them small, season with pepper and salt, and a dessert-spoonful of tapioca steeped in a quarter of a pint of cold water, and one ounce of butter; cover with paste, and bake. Vegetable Pie.—Potatoes, carrots, turnips, onions, celery, equal quantities of each. Cut the carrots and turnips into dice, and the onions and celery into small pieces; fry them in butter, with a little flour, pepper, and salt, till tender, but not burnt; put them in a pie-disli with the sliced potatoes, a little butter and flour, and a cupful of water; stew the whole in the oven till tender, then cover with a crust, and bake. Oyster Pie.—Ingredients—Oysters, puff paste, bread crumbs, a little mace, two ounces butter, two or three eggs. Line a deep dish with the paste. Place a plate the same size as the dish on the top of it: over this put the top crust, set into the oven and bake. While this is baking strain the liquor from the oysters, thicken it with the yolks of the eggs boiled hard and grated; add the butter and a few fine bread crumbs;