23 HOW TO COOK. under pressure, with water which has absorbed a large quan- tity of carbonic acid—which is, in fact, what is called “ mineral waters”—eaux gaseuses—like the ordinary seltzer and soda waters; and a loaf of bread could be nicely made by stirring a bottle of soda water very quickly into a sufficient quantity of flour and baking immediately in a quick oven. The addition of baking powder to flour enables the pastry cook to make a light crust with one-third the usual quantity of butter, but such crust must be made up quickly, and does not bear much kneading or rolling. Aerated bread, and that made with baking powders, keeps good much longer than bread made with yeast, and may be eaten hot from the oven with less injury. In making bread with alkali and sour milk, care should be taken not to have an excess of alkali; and it should always be thoroughly mixed with the flour before adding the milk or other sour liquid. Very good bread is made of rye, which is the chief bread staple of a large part of central and noi’tlxei'n Europe. Barley bread is rather heavy, but sweet and nuti’itious. Oaten cakes are eaten in Scotland and the north of Ireland; but oatmeal is best in porridge. In America and the soutli of Europe, excellent bread is made of the meal of maize, or Indian corn; and still better, pei’haps, of a mixture of Indian corn and rye meal—the famous Boston Brown Bread, which used to be a staple bread in every family in New England. Rice, potatoes, and even pumpkins and turnips, are some- times used with flour to make bread, which is much cheaper than that made entirely of wheat, and very wholesome. Arrowroot is used to increase the delicacy of cakes and pastry. Bread made with water, in which bran lias been boiled for some hours, is economical, sweet, and nutritious. Milk, cream, butter, and eggs, enter largely into the com- position of nice bread, cakes, biscuit, and pastry. Sweet oil can be used instead of butter, and oily nuts mashed or pounded in a moi'tar, make cakes light, and more rich in nutriment. The meal of peas, beans, or lentils, in the proportion of one- fourth, renders bread much more hearty and muscularly nutritious. Apples and other pulpy fruits make bread more healthful. Perhaps the best, the most healthful, and to an unperverted taste, as the taste of childhood, the most delicious ways of