75 HOW TO COOK. thyme • if dried, a little more should he used; two teaspoon- fuls of chopped parsley may be employed. A little celery seed is also very good. Ox Heart, baked.—Wash an ox heart in several waters, cut it in six pieces lengthways, like a steak; lay a few slices of potatoes at the bottom of the pan, then a little beef suet, then the heart, then suet again, and then potatoes over all; season as you fill up, add half a pint of water, bake one hour, and serve. Stewed Fresh Beef and Rice.—Put an ounce of fat in a sauce- pan, cut half a pound of meat in large dice, add a teaspoonful of salt, half one of sugar, an onion sliced; put on the fire to stew for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally, then add two ounces of rice, a pint of water; stew gently till done, and serve. Any savoury herb will improve the flavour. How to Steiv Fresh Beef, Mutton, and Veal.—Cut two pounds of fresh beef into ten or twelve pieces; put these into a saucepan with one and a half teaspoonfuls of salt, one tea- spoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of pepper, two middle- sized onions sliced, half a pint of water. Set on the fire for ten minutes until forming a thick gravy. Add a good table- spoonful of flour, stir on the fire a few minutes; add a quart and a half of water; let the whole simmer until the meat is tender. Beef will take from two hours and a half to three hours; mutton, about two hours; veal, one hour and a quarter to one hour and a half; add half lb. of sliced potatoes, or some turnips, carrots, peas, &c., as you like, and boil till tender. Beef with Vegetables.—Peel two carrots, two turnips, two onions, cut in pieces, put some vegetables at the bottom, then the meat in centre; season, and cover over with remaining vegetables; add a few cloves, a pint of water, or half ale and half water; put in slow oven for three hours, take off the fat, and serve. Any inferior part of beef will eat tender done thus. Leg, Breast, Scrag, and Head of Lamb.—These may all be done as follows:—Put it into a gallon pan, with one carrot, two turnips, one leek, cut in thick slices, thirty young button onions whole, three teaspoonfuls of salt and one of pepper, cover with water, and set it on the fire, or in your oven for one hour; at the end of one hour put in one pint of peas, a little green mint, and a teaspoonful of sugar; set it by the side of the fire or in the oven for half an hour longer, and serve. This is for a leg or joint of five pounds weight; for a larger one take