HOW TO COOiv. 120 Apple Jelly.—Cut washed apples, with skins and cores, re- moving only the unsound or wflrmy parts, into small pieces ; put in a lined saucepan, with cold water to cover them; boil an hour; drain through a hair sieve or jelly-bag, and measure the juice; to each pint add three-quarters of a pound of sugar; boil three-quarters of an hour, skimming, stirring, and not allowing it to burn. A lemon cut in this, and boiled with the apples will improve the flavour, or cinnamon or ginger, if liked. Currant Jelly.—Put in a pan half a sieve of fresh gathered currants, with the stalks; add to it a gill of water, put on the fire, and boil till every currant has opened; then pass the juice through a sieve or colander, and to every quart put one pound of wdiite sugar; boil fast and skim, and when the preserve begins to stick to the spoon, and is quite clear, fill your pre- serve pots, and cover over when cold. Jam.—Take apricots, damsons, any kind of fruit; allow to each pound of skinned and stoned fruit, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, refined for the more delicate fruits, raw for the stronger flavours. Some fruits require rather more sugar. The meats of stone fruits, and seeds of others, improve the flavour. Pound the sugar and strew' it over the fruit, and let it stand for some hours; put all into a preserving pan, and simmer until the syrup is clear; skim out the fruit; put it in pots, and pour over the syrup. Small and soft fruit is to be poured into the pots. When cool cover the jam with oiled paper; then tie over thin paper, and brush it with white of egg. Damsons, Plums, do., Preserved without Sugar.—Most kinds of fruits may be kept for tarts without sugar. Pick sound fruit into clean dry wide-mouthed bottles or jars. When full pour boiling water on until it stands an inch above the fruit cut a piece of paper to fit over the fruit, and pour on it melted mutton suet, clarified butter or wax, and cover with browm paper. When used, remove the fat, pour off the water, and use the jell}' at the bottom with the fruit. Baked Apples.—Pare and core the apples; fill the cavity in each with sugar, and a small bit of butter, pour a little w'ater in a pan with them. Baste occasionally with the syrup while baking. Fried Apples.—Slice large tart apples evenly across the