56 HOW TO COOK Cheap Pea Soup.—Put into the saucepan or pot 4 oz. but- ter, two good onions sliced; fry them gently until brownish, then add one large or two small turnips, the same of carrots, one leek, and one head of celery, all cut thin and slanting (if all these cannot be obtained, use any of them, but about the same amount); fry for ten minutes more, and then add seven quarts of water; boil up, and add one pound and a half of split peas; simmer for two or three hours, until reduced to a pulp, which depends on the quality of the peas, then add two tablespoonfuls of salt, one of sugar, one of dried mint; mix half a pound of flour smooth in a pint of water, stir it well; pour it in the soup, boil thirty minutes, and serve. Puree, or Thick Vegetable Soups.—Green Pea.—Put a quart of large green peas, when cheap, in the pot or pan, with three or four ounces of butter, a middling-sized onion, a little mint, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half the same of pepper, a gill of water; set on slow fire, stir now and then, or until no more moisture remains on the bottom of the pan; add two or three tablespoonfuls of flour, stir round quick, and break the peas against the side of the pan with a wooden spoon; moisten with a quart of milk and a quart of water, simmer twenty minutes, or more if old peas, and serve. Fried bread, in small dice, is a good accompaniment. By pressing the peas with the back of a spoon, through a hair sieve, an inviting puree is produced; after which warm up, and serve. Lettuce Soup.—Wash, dry, and cut up four cabbage lettuces, and one coss ditto, a handful of sorrel, a little tarragon and chervil, and two or three small cucumbers peeled and sliced; put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, then set in the vegetables; put on a slow fire, and stir often, until there is no liquid remaining; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, and moisten with two quarts of broth or water, and set it to boil; when boiling, add a pint of green peas, two tea- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a little pepper and salt; when the peas are tender, serve. If you use water, increase the quantity of seasoning. Fish Soup.—The water in which fish has been boiled may be saved for soup. In it boil also the bones, head, fins, &c., with onions, herbs, vegetables, as turnips, carrots, Jerusalem artichokes, salsify, celery. A little milk improves it. Thicken, and season to taste.