HOW TO COOK. Ill nearly four tablespoonfuls of arrrowroot, or three and a half ounces, to one quart of milk; boil four minutes, stirring it briskly; allow it to cool, and then thoroughly mix it with two eggs, well beaten with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste, and bake for half an hour in an oven. “ Corn-flour,” the starch of maize, may be used as arrowroot. Indian Meal Pudding.—Take one pint meal, one quart milk, one quart syrup or treacle, a little salt. Stir all together; put in a strong cloth with plenty of room for the pudding to swell; plunge in boiling water, and boil four hours. Serve with syrup and cream or butter. Or, for a cheaper pudding, take Indian meal, eight ounces; boiling water, nearly one pint; treacle, two ounces; salt, one-sixth of an ounce; pour the mix- ture into a pudding-cloth previously dipped in boiling water, leaving a space equal to about one-sixth of the contents; boil six hours. Baited Indian Pudding.—Boil a quart of milk, sifting into it a small cup of Indian (maize) meal, and some add a teaspoon- ful of “corn flour,” or two of wheat flour; pour into a buttered dish; when cool stir iu three well beaten eggs, three spoonfuls of brown sugar, and bake three hours or longer in a slow oven. Sliced apples or raisins maybe added, and flavour, if liked, but most prefer its own flavour. Hominy Pudding.—Hominy, four ounces; milk, a pint and a quarter; eggs, three; sugar, two to four ounces; steep the hom- iny twelve hours in half the milk; add the remaining milk and the eggs well beaten, a little cinnamon, and three drops of almond flavour. Bake in a moderate oven. Barley Pudding.—Pearl barley, four ounces; sugar, two to three ounces; salt, half a teaspoonful; milk, two pints. Soak the barley for a few hours in cold water; pour off the water, add the sugar and milk, and let the whole simmer gently for two or three hours; then bake at a gentle heat. If a richer pudding be required, remove it from the oven when nearly cooked enough; stir in butter one to two ounces; eggs, two or three; return it to the oven till sufficiently baked. Oat Pudding, Baked.—Soak one pound of whole groats over night in a quart of new milk; add a quarter of a pound each of currants washed and picked, raisins stoned, and half a pound of veal suet finely shred, or a quarter pound butter, two to four well beaten eggs, and sugar to the taste; add plenty of