HOW TO COOK. 1-29 • i Some break the leaves of lettuce, &c., instead of cutting them. Some cut only with a silver knife. A wooden spoon and fork are used in serving. Cold chicken, lobster, or the remains of cooked fish, may compose a part of a salad. An ornamental lobster salad, or crab salad, is made as follows:— Lobster Salad.—Have the bowl half filled with any kind of salad herb you like, either endive or lettuce, &c. Then break a lobster in two, open the tail, extract the meat in one piece, break the claws, cut the meat of both in small slices, about a quarter of an inch thick, arrange these tastefully on the salad, take out all the soft part from the belly, mix it in a basin with a teaspoonful of salt, half of pepper, four of vinegar, four of oil; stir it well together, and pour on the salad; then cover it with two hard eggs, cut in slices, a few slices of cucumber, and, to vary, a few capers and some fillets of anchovy; stir lightly, and serve. If for a dinner, ornament it with some flowers of the nasturtium and marigold. Salad Dressing in Verse.—The following has been attributed to the witty Dean of St. Paul’s:— Half a potato passed through kitchen sieve, Will welcome softness to the salad give, Of mordent mustard add a single spoon— Distrust the condiment which bites too soon; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, To add a double quantity of salt: Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown. And once with vinegar procured from town. True flavour needs it, and your poet begs, The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs, Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, And, scarce suspected, animate the whole. BEVERAGES. The beverages of this country are tea, coffee, cocoa, cho- colate, ale, or beer, wine, spirits. The real drink of all animals, and the best drink of man—or rather the only drink—is water. Water forms about 90 per cent, of blood and brain or nerve matter, and about 70 per cent, of the weight of the body, Water is the real drink, and the other substances added flavours, nutritive, or stimulating. Pure soft water is the most natural, and best of all beverages. Milk is food and water. Wine is water with fruit juices and alcohol. Tea is water with an