HOW TO COOK. 78 and potatoes. Pour in a pint of water, cover well, and stew two and a half hours. Cold Beef with Mashed Potatoes.—Mash some potatoes with hot milk, tiie yolk of an egg, some butter and salt. Slice the cold beef, and“ lay it at the bottom of a pie-dish, adding to it some sliced eschalot, pepper, salt, and a little beef-gravy; cover the whole with a thick paste of potatoes, making the crust to rise in the centre above the edges of the dish. Score the potato- crust with the point of a knife in squares of equal sizes. Put the dish in the oven, or before the fire in a Dutch oven, and brown it on all sides; by the time it is coloured, the meat and potatoes will be sufficiently done. Tripe, Lyons fashion.—Boil two pounds of tripe; when done, drain it, dry with a cloth, cut it in pieces about an inch square; put in the pan four ounces of butter, four middling-sized onions cut in slices; fry for a few minutes, then add the tripe, stir them every four minutes for about a quarter of an hour, then put in a teaspoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, two table- spoonfuls of vinegar, mixed well, and it will be ready for serv- ing. Vermicelli boiled in the water that the tripe has been boiled in, makes good soup. Rice and bread are also nice. Turkey, Boiled.—A hen turkey of moderate size is best, killed three or four days. Pluck, carefully draw, and singe with white paper ; wash inside and out, and dry with a cloth; cut off head and neck, draw out the sinews from the thighs, cut off legs, fill the body with stuffing; run a skewer through legs and wings, break the breast-bone, and make it round, Put into sufficient hot water to cover it, bring to a boil, and remove all the scum. Simmer gently one and a half to one and three-quarter hours, and serve with white, or celery, or parsley sauce. Oyster stuffing and oyster sauce are sometimes used. Turkey, Roast.—Choose a fine, fat, short spurred, black- legged cock-turkey ; pluck and wash as before ; stuff and truss. Bread-crumb, potato, or chestnut stuffing is good, seasoned to taste. Fasten a sheet of buttered paper to the breast, and put before a bright fire, at some distance at first; then draw nearer, and keep well basted. After one and a half hours, dredge with flour, baste with butter, and do to a nice brown, and serve with brown gravy, or bread sauce. Chicken, Boiled.—Prepare the same as a turkey; truss firmly and put in a stew-pan with plenty of hot water; bring to the boil, and skim carefully. Simmer very gently until tender—-