HOW TO COOK. 55 sweet herbs, 4 oz. vinegar. When done, stir in 8 oz. stale bread cut or broken in small pieces. Thin with boiling water, if required. Onions, carrots, turnips, celery, cabbage, &c., may be added to vary it; and any flavours. Cheap Vegetable Soup.—Peel and cut into small pieces six potatoes, three turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 head celery, 2 mushrooms, if to be had; toast a large slice of bread very brown, and put all into a saucepan with 6 quarts of water. Simmer for three hours, and when quite soft pass it through a sieve. Warm up and season with salt, pepper, and any sauce you like, with a dash of vinegar. Barley Soup.—Put 2 lbs. shin of beef, £ lb. pearl barley, a large bunch of parsley, 4 onions, 6 potatoes peeled and sliced, salt and pepper, in 4 quarts of cold water, bring slowly to boil and simmer gently three hours. Rice, peas, beans, or tapioca, may be used in place of barley, and celery or sweet herbs for parsley. Onion Soup.—Cut up eight middling-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with 3 oz. butter, and fry well; mix a tablespoon- ful of rice flour with 2 quarts of water; add the onions, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar; simmer till tender; thicken with butter and flour. Pea Soup.—Cut up and fry £ lb. of onions, £ lb. carrots, 2 oz. celery in a little butter or dripping; add 4 quarts of water, or liquor in which meat or fish has been boiled; when boiling, add | lb. of peas; simmer until the peas are thoroughly done; add 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar, salt, and pepper, and a little mint or other herbs, and a dash of vinegar. French Vegetable Soup.—Pumpkins or vegetable-marrow two pounds, cut in large dice, an onion sliced, butter three or four ounces, salt and sugar two teaspoonfuls of each, pepper a quarter of a teaspoonful, -water half a pint. Stew gently for twenty minutes; when in pulp, add two tablespoonfuls of flour and three pints of milk gradually, stirring the whole well during the mixing. Pea Soup.—Put in your pot 4 oz. of butter, half a pint of peas, three pints of water, one teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, half one of pepper, four ounces of vegetables, cut in slices; boil gently two hours, or until the peas are tender, as some require boiling longer than others, and serve.