HOW TO COOK. 20 of man is that which is found ready prepared for his use pleasant to the sight, delicious to the smell and taste, and affording the most healthful kind of nutriment; as strawber- ries, grapes, apples, pears, oranges, bananas, melons, &c. It is certain that men could live very well, perhaps better than in any other way, on fruit and nuts alone, in genial, temperate, and tropical climates, where they are produced in great abundance. It is also believed that fruits which grow in the air and ripen in the sun are a higher and purer form of food than roots, stalks, and leaves. Most fruits are eaten, and many are best eaten raw. We can hardly improve grapes, strawberries, or peaches by cookery; still we have grape jellies, and dried grapes, or raisins, are used abundantly in cakes anck puddings. Strawberries are eaten in tarts and preserved in jams; while peaches and pine-apples make delicious fritters, dumplings, tarts, and puddings. Some of our common fruits which can scarcely be eaten at all raw, when they are ripened more thoroughly, and have their flavour developed by fire and the addition of sugar, become truly delicious. This is the case to a remarkable degree with the quince, the coarse hard pear, and many kinds of apples. The quince is sometimes stewed and eaten alone, but more commonly used to give a finer flavour to apples. The uneatable pears are slowly stewed or baked: the longer the better, with a little water and brown sugar or treacle in the dish. Apples may be cooked in a hundred ways, and in all are healthful and nutritive. They are good roasted before the fire; stewed whole; stewed into sauce, with a little sugar, butter, and cinnamon or lemon peel, if liked; boiled; baked in their skins; pared and cored, filled with butter and sugar and baked; placed whole or sliced into puddings of almost every kind; made into dumplings, baked or boiled; in short, as the components of an endless variety of dishes. Gooseberries, currants, cherries, plums, apricots, &c., also supply us with the materials for jellies, jams, tarts, &c. Goose- berries and currants can be used very early, as soon as large enough to pick, supplied with sugar, and ripened by fire. Young and tender apricots are also cooked for tarts, but they have a rather high flavour, which might be used in connection with old or dried apples. Some of our wild berries become by cooking very good eat-