138 HOW TO COOK. celery. There is a charm in a nice butter dish. Try not to crowd things. Make every meal a little ceremony, and a re- freshment to all the senses. Observe how well-bred people behave at table and imitate their manners. Avoid uncouth noises and gestures, and every- thing that can give disgust. Never speak at table upon any unpleasant subject, such as bodily ailments, the sewage ques- tion, cattle plague, contagious diseases, &c. Have only cheer- ful and tasteful subjects of conversation. Learn how to escort a lady to table, how to carve, how to help others, how to take wine, how to use your finger glass, by quietly observing how others do, and following good exam- ples. Conform quietly to the manners of those about you. You need not, indeed, eat with a knife; but George IV. showed his right to the title of First Gentleman in Europe, when, taking tea with some old-fashioned ladies, he adopted their custom of cooling their tea by drinking it from their saucers. Learn to eat and drink nicely, silently, and inoffen- sively, if not tastefully and elegantly. Eat with moderation as to time and quantity. If we eat what is set before us, there is no obligation to eat all, nor even of all, that is offered us. If hosts press, we must parry. Eat what you feel will not hurt you, and, if doubtful, keep to the safe side, and set a good example of temperance and sobriety. An elegant table need not be a profuse or expensive one. The nicest meals are those in which a few delicately prepared and served dishes of cheap and simple food are handed round in succession, and no one is tempted to excess, while every one has enough, which is not only as good as. but much better than, a feast. Finally, I commend this book to the study of mothers and daughters, as a help to making happy‘homes for people of every class; and I believe that one month's training in its principles and rules, would make a good reliable cook of any intelligent servant, who can see and feel that the glory of a house is a clean and well-ordered kitchen, and a tasteful, attractive, and healthful table. To this end, mistress and cook should have a daily consultation in the kitchen, and always have a perfect understanding with each other. And every woman, it seems to me, whatever her position in life may be, should know how to cook.