131 HOW TO COOK. coffee, bring it just to the boiling point, let it stand to settle a little, then pour the liquid off; add the remaining half of the water at a boiling heat to the grounds, boil for about three minutes, let it stand to settle a little, then povur off the clear part, and add to it the other liquor. The first operation ex- tracts the aroma of the coffee, the second the bitter principle. Coffee and Egg.—Put four ounces of freshly roasted and ground coffee in a basin, and break to it an egg, adding yolk, white, and shell. Mix it up with a spoon to the consistency of a thick batter; add to it a quart of warm, not boiling, water; put it in a coffee-pot, and let it boil up and break three times; let it stand a few minutes, and it will be as clear as amber. The egg will render the coffee rich and smooth. Cafe au Lait.—Put four ounces of coffee into a biggin, and pour upon it three-quarters of a pint of boiling water. To half a pint of boiling milk add one quarter of the coffee just made, or a less quantity if desired weaker, and sweeten it with lump sugar. To make Tea, all that is wanted is clean, hot vessels, boiling water, and a bright, quick infusion; though some kinds require more time than others. Tea should never boil. Soft water is much more economical than hard. Chocolate and Cocoa are often largely adulterated, and Eng- lish chocolate has seldom a good flavour. French, Spanish, and Italian chocolates are much better. Chocolate needs to be simply well dissolved in milk, or at least in half milk and water. Let it boil up two or three times, and be well agitated with a mull, before serving. Chocolate is often flavoured with cinnamon, or vanilla; orange flower water, a teaspoonful to a cup, is also liked by many. Lemonade, hot or cold, or Lemon-and-Orangeade, is best when one lump of the sugar is well rubbed on the peel of the lemon, and the juice squeezed upon the rest. Claret wine, a fourth or half, is good in lemonade. Apple Water.—Put a gallon of water on to boil, cut up one pound of apples, each one into quarters, put them in the water, and boil them until they can be pulped, pass the liquor through a colander, boil it up again with half a pound of brown sugar, scum, and bottle for use, taking care not to cork the bottle, and keep it in a cool place; the apples may be eaten with sugar; or, bake the apples first, then put them in a gallon pan, add