94 now TO COOK. BREAD AND FARINACEOUS PREPARATIONS. Bread, the staff of life, must have been one of the earliest forms of cooked food. To crush the seeds of plants, mix the meal with water, and bake the dough on a flat stone before a fire, is one of the simplest modes of cookery, and one of the best. A hollow in a rock was the first mortar; two stones rubbed together the first mill. To this day the negro in Ame- rica makes his hoe cake of pounded Indian corn in this simple fashion. Indian Johnny cake is made in the same way, of finer meal. This is the unleavened bread of the Scriptures, and may he made of wheatmeal or flour, oatmeal, rye, barley, or maize. But when bread is made in larger loaves it is more pleasant to eat, if not more digestible, to be lighter—that is, of a spongy texture, with small air-cells interspersed in its substance. This may be accomplished in several ways. Fermentation, which may be rapidly produced by yeast, causes the formation of carbonic acid gas, which swells up the whole mass of mois- tened flour. Or the mixture of an acid and alkali in the dough will produce veiy rapidly the same result. Aerated bread is made of flour or meal moistened with water, which holds a large quantity of carbonic acid gas in solution. The bread of bakers is generally raised too much, destroying its substance and sweetness, and making it dry and chippy to the taste. It is also often made of inferior or damaged flour, doctored with alum, white vitriol, &c. The brown bread of the bakers often seems made of refuse flour and bran, and is very inferior to good home-made bread made of whole wheat—the entire meal without separation. Bread made of rather coarse meal is sweeter than the finer. Some of the aroma of the wheat escapes in the crush and heat of the mill-stones. The air of the mill is full of it, and this is so much lost to the bread. M. Soyer says—“The bread which I strongly recommend is that made from unbolted flour, or whole meal. The mass of bread is increased one-fifth, and the price lowered, between the difference of the price of bran as flour, or as fodder for cattle. It is only in more modern times the sifted flour has been known and has been used by the poor, to imitate the luxury of the wealthy, at the expense of their health. Certain it is, that where whole meal is used as bread, the population have better