72 HOW TO COOK. a little boiling water over the brown parts of the joint about half an hour before it is done. Another way is to pour a little boiliug water over the inferior parts of the meat after it is taken from the tire. Care should be taken, in following these methods, that the meat is not soddened by using too much water. Gravy for Boiled Meat is usually made by putting a little of t he liquor in which it was boiled into the dish. Gravy for a Fowl maybe made by stewing the neck, giz- z ard, &c., with the liver bruised; a bit of lemon-peel should be added, and a spoonful of ketchup. Strain it when done. Gravy for Venison is best made with the trimmings of the meat, or with mutton. Brown the pieces of meat in a stew- pan, or broil them a little. Cover them with boiling water, take off the scum, and season with a little salt. When quite done, take the fat off. Stuffing.—Soyer gives the following stuffing for veal, poul- try, and game, which, of course, may be varied to suit taste:— Chop half a pound of suet, put it in a basin with three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of pepper, a little thyme or lemon peel chopped, three whole eggs, mix well, and use where directed. A pound of bread crumbs and one more egg may be used: it will make it cut firmer. Leg of Mutton, to Boil.—Plunge into boiling water enough to cover it, let it boil up, then remove to the side of the fire till you can bear your finger in the water; bring to a gentle sim- mer, skim well, add a little salt, and in two and a-half hours after it begins to simmer a moderate sized leg will be done. Bibs or Sirloin of Beef.—Boast beef, being a justly famous English dinner, deserves the best care of the cook. Put a nice sheet of paper over the fat, put it before a good fire, baste it constantly, and when nearly done, take the paper off, dredge the joint with flour, and sprinkle a little salt over it. A joint of fifteen or twenty pounds will require three hours and a-half roasting. Garnish with horse-radish. Roast Leg of Mutton.—Mind that the meat has been pro- perly hung, and roast it before a brisk fire a couple of hours, for a joint of eight pounds. Dredge and baste, as directed for beef. A Shoulder of Mutton of seven pounds weight will take about an hour and a half roasting. Onion sauce.