now TO COOK 93 fine, flour, and eggs. Fry in small fritters from five to seven minutes, then sift white sugar over them. Rice or Grain Fritters.—The various grains may be made into flitters thus: Soften the grain in water or milk, and when nearly cold add eggs, well beaten, in the proportion of five eggs to six ounces of grain, weighed dry; season with pepper and salt, and fry in cakes about four inches in diameter and three quarters of an inch thick. Before being fried they may, if pre- ferred, be dipped in beaten egg. Serve with brown sauce, or crisped parsley and melted butter. Bread-Crumb Fritters.—Pour half a pint of boiling water or milk upon four ounces bread crumbs, and let them soak one hour; beat the mixture with a fork, removing all hard pieces; add four beaten eggs and half an ounce of butter, and if intended to be sweet, add from two to four ounces of sugar, and a little lemon rind and juice; also, if liked, three ounces of currants, or four of chopped apples or other fruit, and fry. If intended to be savoury, substitute for the sugar, &c., onions previously boiled in two or three waters and chopped small, two to four ounces; oatmeal, one ounce; sage, one teaspoonful; lemon, thyme, and sweet marjoram, half a teaspoonful of each; a little pepper and salt. Mix the whole well, adding more fluid when necessary; fry and serve up with brown sauce. Or, use mashed potatoes, sixteen ounces; bread crumbs, two ounces; eggs, five; season with pepper and salt; or, rice, coarsely ground, four ounces; eggs, four; parsley, one teaspoon- ful; onions, finely chopped, one teaspoonful; pepper and salt. Boil the rice in about half a pint of water; let it cool, then add the other ingredients, and mix well. Fry, and serve with brown sauce. Bread Fritters.—Cut some nice slices of bread half an inch thick, dip them in milk which is sweetened, or sprinkle sugar over, then dip it into some batter of milk and flour, and fry nicely, or put some butter in a tin dish, with the bread over, and put in an oven. When quite hot and nearly hard, put some fruit over, and serve. Cream Crullers.—Ingredients: Two cups sugar, three eggs, one cup sweet cream, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt, half teaspoonful nutmeg, one flour. Mix the sugar with the flour, and beat the cream with the eggs. Flour enough to roll out hard. Fry in plenty of boiling oil or butter.