HOW TO COOK. 89 water, and not too tightly covered. As soon as the custard will bear the weight of your finger, remove it from the steamer, let it stand till cold, turn it out of the mould, and garnish with whipped cream. Baked Custard.—Milk or milk and cream, one pint; eggs beaten, three or four; sugar, two ounces; nutmeg or other flavour when desired. Line a dish with good paste, pour in the custard, and bake it half an hour; or pour it into cups, and bake or steam it ten minutes or more. Plain Custard.—Boil a pint of milk, in which place two ounces of sugar, the thin peel of half a lemon; break in a basin four eggs, beat them well with a fork, then pour in the milk by degrees, not too hot; mix it well, pass it through a cullender or sieve, fill cups with it, which place in a stewpan, on the fire, which contains one inch of water; leave them till set. Arrow Root Custard.—One quart of milk, and mix with it two ounces of arrow root, one or two eggs well beaten, add a little butter and four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste and boil four minutes, then pour it into a pie-dish, and brown it before the fire. Lemon Custard.—Beat the yolks of three eggs with six tablespoonfuls sugar, add four tablespoonfuls of milk and the juice and grated rind of a lemon; pour the mixture upon puff paste arranged in a deep plate. While this is baking beat the whites of the egg, with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, to a stiff froth. When the custard is baked, spread the froth evenly over it, and return to the oven until lightly browned. Floating Custard.—Set one quart of milk on the range in a daintily clean vessel. Then separate the yolks from four eggs, and beat the whites to a stiff froth. When the milk is scalding hot, slip spoonfuls of froth upon it, turning them over gently so that that they will cook. Lift them carefully out upon a dish, -whip the yolks with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, pour into the milk, and stir rapidly until it reaches the boiling point. Remove them instantly, and pour into float dish; when a little cool add any flavouring liked, and lay the snowballs upon it. This dish may be varied by beating the different fruit juices or jellies with the whites of the eggs. Custard Pudding.—Beat up two or three eggs with a small dessertspoonful of arrow root, sweeten with loaf sugar, add seven drops of essence of almonds; pour on this a pint of boil-