ADVERTISEMENTS. HOW TO LIVE ON SIXPENCE A-DAY. BY T. L. NICHOLS, M.D., Author of “Forty Years of American Life;” “Human Physi- ology tiie Basis of Sanitary and Social Science;” “How to Cook;” “Esoteric Anthropology, or the Mysteries of Man,” &c. “ Dr. Nichols' advice is sound and practicable. He shows that a cheap diet is sufficient for bodily nourishment, conducive to bodily and mental strength, and may be made more delightful to the senses than costly and pernicious luxuries. We confidently recommend this tract to all true philanthropists who know how deeply down must be laid the foundations of social regeneration.”—Mechanics' Magazine, copit d into the Times of India, Bombay. ‘ ‘ A valuable little treatise, full of the most useful information, set down in clear, plain English. Dr. Nichols discusses the whole question of food and nutrition; and he succeeds in showing (what many would regard as an absolute impossibility), how life may well be kept up at the little expenditure mentioned. . . . The production evidently of a learned, thoughtful, and philanthropic man.”—Weekly Dispatch. “ A remarkable little work—remarkable for the many interesting facts embodied in it, and also for the ability with which the talented author shows how practical it is for every individual to live, and live well, on Sixpence a-day. It well merits a thoughtful perusal.” —Alloa Advertiser. “ An excellent work, and one of the most sensible tracts on food matters we have seen for a long time.”—Dietetic Reformer. “The bona fide work of a medical gentleman residing at Great Malvern. As such, it commends itself to the careful reading of all persons of limited means, but especially of the clergy and other philanthropic persons. There is matter in it which is worth every- body’s attention.”—Gloucester Mercury. Many persons have written to the author to thank him for health regained, or greatly improved, by following the advice given in “Howto Live on Sixpence A-Day.” It has been republished in America, and the publisher writes that wealthy and philanthropic gentlemen are buying it in dozens and hundreds for gratuitous distribution. Sold by Dr. T. L. Nichols, at the Hygienic Institute, 39 Museum Street, London, W.C., and at all Railway Stalls and Booksellers, Price Sixpence.