24 HOW TO COOK. preparing wheat and other bread-making grains, are the most simple. Wheat soaked for twenty-four hours, and then boiled in water, or steamed until it cracks open, is very sweet and nice, eaten with a little milk or syrup, or both. Wheat, mashed, cracked, or coarsely ground, stirred into boiling water, and boiled to a mash, mush, stirabout, or por- ridge, which will require fifteen or twenty minutes, and served hot, or kept in a dish or mould and eaten cold, is one of the sweetest of farinaceous dishes, eaten with syrup, sugar and milk, or cream, and also one of the most healthful; a perfect remedy for, and prevention of, constipation, and all the diseases that follow in its train. Oatmeal porridge is too well known to require eulogy. It should be made of medium or coarse meal, stirred into boiling water, not too thick, and is well cooked in ten minutes. Rye, barley, and rice, require nearly the same treatment as wheat. Indian corn meal, when fresh or well kept, makes the hasty puddings, mush, or stirabout, so much eaten in America. Ground coarsely, or barely cracked, it is sweeter to the taste, and is then called hominy. Indian corn has even more oil than wheat, but less gluten, and is hearty, excellent food. It requires to be cooked from twenty-five minutes to an hour, according to its coarseness. Cold Indian corn mush, or hominy, cut in slices, dredged with flour, fried, and eaten with treacle or syrup, is an American and Italian luxury. Wheat mush can also be fried with a fine development of flavour. As Indian meal contains more oil than wheat, it requires less butter or cream. Rice is the staple food of more than half the human race. It contains less gluten than wheat, and a larger proportion of starch. It requires, therefore, the addition of milk, cheese, eggs, or vegetables, which contain more flesh-forming ele- ments. It is good boiled as a vegetable, baked in puddings, mixed with flour in bread and cakes, in soups, &c. Very*easy of digestion, it is a bland good food for children and invalids. Buckwheat is used chiefly in the form of griddle cakes. The meal is mixed up thin with a little yeast; and when it rises, fried in a buttered frying pan, or better, on a dry soap-stone griddle. It is also made quickly with baking powder. Peas, beans, and lentils are the richest of all our food seeds in flesh-forming nutriment—far richer, pound for pound, than beef or mutton. They are good in soups, stews, boiled as vegetables, baked, and in various combinations, and should