HOW TO COOK. 62 simmer the whole for two hours, and strain it. Let the fish which is to be cooked in it only simmer, and if the marinade is boiled and skimmed, after using, it will do again and again ; but if put by for days it must be kept tightly covered. To Broil Fish, if large, like salmon, cut it in slices about an inch thick, roll them in a batter of melted butter, flour, and salt, and broil over a clear but slow fire. Or it may be simply dried in a cloth, floured, and broiled, and served with butter. To Fry Fish,.—Fish is best fried in salad oil. This oil may be kept in a special jar for the purpose, and used when re- quired. Whole fish may be rolled in flour, or fine biscuit powder, or Indian corn meal; but slices of fish are best with yolk of egg, or a thin batter. The oil, or other fat, should be very hot, and the fish nicely browned. Batter for Frying Fish.—Beat up an egg until it froths, beat in flour enough to make the batter so thick, that a suffi- ciency of it will adhere to the fish dipped into it before frying. Season it with salt and pepper to taste, and add mace and nut- meg in fine powder, if the flavour be liked. Dip the fish into this, and put each piece as dipped into the boiling fat or oil. Another batter for fish is: beat up the yolks of two eggs, beat in a spoonful of flour, powdered nutmeg, mace, salt, and pepper to taste. Or beat four spoonfuls of flour with one of oil, and just beer enough to make it of a due thickness, beat in the whites of two eggs, or one egg, yolk and white both. A Mayonaise of cold fish is simply a good salad sauce poured over it;' with a garnish of lettuce, beet-root, nasturtian flowers, &c. (See Salads.) Stewed Fish.—Take white wine and water in equal parts, or, lacking wine or cider, use a little vinegar and water, just enough to cover the fish, and let it stew gently until it is cooked. Put the fish by to keep hot, and thicken the liquor with butter and flour. Beat two eggs, mix gradually with the gravy, salt to taste, and serve the fish in the gravy. Chives and parsley may be chopped fine and added if liked. Boiled Fish, French Style.—After the fish is cleaned and scaled, place in the inside a piece of butter rolled in flour, and pom1 a glass of boiling vinegar over it. Place the fish in a stew-pan with wine enough to cover it, to which add salt, pepper, a laurel-leaf or two, and two slices of lemon. Let it