HOW TO COOK. Cl British Islands, and sent by rail into the interior, would go far to feed the whole population. In two days of October, 1871, there were taken by the’fishermen of the single port of Lowestoft twenty-two millions of herrings. As they had no means of curing so immense a number, many tons had to be sold for manure. The best cured herrings come from Great Yarmouth. Fish is best fresh from the water. Some, as cod, ling, turbot, soles, and even salmon, keep for some days in a cool atmosphere; others, like mackerel, should be eaten on the day they are caught. But most kinds can be preserved by salting, smoking, or drying, and these can be made more palatable and healthful by being soaked in cold water before using. The most delicate isinglass is made of the swimming bladder of the sturgeon. The water in which fish is boiled is a good foundation for soups, if its odour is not disagreeable. The vessels in which fish is cooked must be perfectly clean; and they should be freed from all smell of fish after using, especially if intended for other uses. This is particularly the case with the frying-pan and gridiron. A pan in which coals can be put to stand over a fish and brown its surface is required for some dishes; while others need the bain-marie, which is simply a jar or other vessel, set into a saucepan of boiled water, or oblong vessel made for the purpose, so that its con- tents are kept at the simmering point without burning. To Boil Fish, have just water enough to cover the fish, in a vessel not too large. Most kinds should be put in boiling water. To the water add a rather large quantity of salt, and a strong dash of vinegar. In France fish are commonly boiled in white wine, sour cider or perry, of the sour cheap kinds, would answer. In the water may also be put a little pepper, mace, or sweet herbs, parsley, &c. Very ordinary fish may in this way be brought to a delicious flavour. A fish is boiled enough when it separates readily from the bone. Marinade.—A sort of flavoured broth in which fish may be boiled. Cut up a carrot, a large onion, a good-sized clove of shallot, or two small ones, and half a clove of garlic. Put them into a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a bunch of pars- ley, and other sweet herbs, and let all brown a little. Then stir in gradually a bottle of cheap foreign wine, good home- made wine, or cider. Put in a good tablespoonful of salt, some pepper, ground allspice, and two cloves, beaten up;