13 HOW TO COOK. fish is done when the meat no longer adheres to the bones, or you can turn a fork in it. Potatoes are done when a fork passes readily through the largest. The larger the article, the less heat, or the further from the fire, and the more time. Much judgment is required in the use of what may be called the accessories of cookery—the condiments and flavouring materials. Many substances afford excellent nourishment which have very little taste. Rice, arrowroot, potatoes, cab- bages, and in the English climate many vegetables and fruits, need salt, or sugar, or vinegar, pepper, mustard, spices, sweet herbs—something for a relish. And, to a certain extent, these articles are not only agreeable, but useful. Salt enters largely into the formation of the blood and animal tissues. Our tears and other secretions are perceptibly salt. It may be true that we should get enough in our food without addition; but we tolerate larger quantities, and up to a certain point, salt added to our food seems to favour digestion, while an excess is un- pleasant and injurious. Few things seem to need salt more than eggs; yet those who have tried the experiment say that to one who uses no salt, a fresh egg seems to be strongly salted. Vinegar gives a pleasant taste to many kinds of food, really softens some and makes them more digestible, and appears to join with the acid of the gastric juice and increase its efiicacy: but an excess of vinegar brings on dyspepsia. For many uses lemon or lime-juice is nicer and better than vinegar, but always more costly, and at times not easy to get. Vinegar may be well used on cabbage, greens of all kinds, beet root, and a judicious dash of vinegar improves the flavour of almost every kind of soup, stew, or gravy. Fish of all kinds is the better for a little acid. Mustard is, perhaps, one of the least objectionable of the hot or biting condiments; but an excess of mustard is to be avoided for this reason: the more we use the more we require, and the delicate coats of the stomach will not bear above a very moderate quantity without injury. The same remark applies with still greater force to black, white, and red pep- pers, and the peppery sauces into which they so largely enter. A healthy stomach and simple taste should never be burned up and destroyed by any kind of fiery, feverish, and exciting stimulants; and all condiments and flavours should, esven as a matter of taste, be used in the most moderate quantities. Thus spices should seldom be used with fruits, or, if used,