1I0W TO COOK 42 Browning for Sauces.—rut half a pound of brown sugar into an iron saucepan, and melt it over a moderate fire for about twenty-five minutes, stirring it continually, until quite black, but it must become so by degrees, or too sudden a beat will make it bitter, then add two quarts of water, and in ten minutes the sugar will be dissolved. Bottle for use. Or, spread flour on a tin or dish, colour it without burning it in a gentle oven, or before the fire in a Dutch or American oven; turn it fre- quently, that the whole may be equally browned. This blended with butter is a convenient thickening for soups and sauces when a deep colour is required. Brown Sauce.—Butter two ounces, flour one ounce. Melt the butter in a frying-pan or saucepan, add the flour, and stir the mixture till it is of a brown colour; add as much boiling water as will render it of the consistency of thin cream; season with pepper and salt. Add a little browning and ketchup. Celery Sauce.—Celery two roots, one small onion, flour one ounce, butter one ounce, cream a gill. Cut the celery and onions small, and stew them in a pint of water till tender; stir in the flour, butter, and cream, previously mixed together, till the butter is quite dissolved, and add a little pepper and salt; simmer the whole gently fifteen minutes, rub it through a tin strainer with a wooden spoon, return the sauce to the pan, and stir it till it boils. Mixed Herbs.—Pound together in a Wedgwood mortar dried mint and sage half an ounce of each, celery seed one drachm, cayenne a quarter of a drachm, or a drachm of allspice or black pepper. Rub them through a fine sieve. This gives a savoury relish. Or, dried parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savoury, lemon thyme, of each two ounces; lemon peel cut very thin and dried, and sweet basil, of each one ounce. Some add bay leaves and celery seed, a drachm of each. These may be dried and pounded together, then kept in closely stopped bottles. Sweet Pudding Sauce.—Equal quantities of white wine and sugar, added to some very rich melted butter. Some use brandy. TP kite Pudding Sauce.—Take a gill of white wine, some loaf- sugar, and the whites of three eggs; beat them over the fire until they form a high froth, and serve immediately. Red Wine Sauce.—Simmer half a pint of red wine, and one