48 HOW TO COOK. Swedish Turnips, such as are fed to cattle, when of a medium 6ize, are preferred by some to the common kind. They must be cut into slices, and boiled in plenty of water. Carrots should be scraped and boiled tender, which may take twenty minutes or an hour, according to quality. Serve in quarters, cut lengthwise, or round slices, with butter, salt and pepper. Beets, but little used in England as a vegetable, are very sweet and nutritious. They must be boiled with their skins on, and scraped afterwards. Cut in slices, put in a pan with gravy, butter, or milk, and a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. Good cold as a salad or pickle. Good baked also. Parsnips are good plainly boiled till tender; partly boiled and thin sliced lengthwise, and fried in butter; or broiled; or stewed with a little milk and floured blitter, salt, and pepper. Onions may be boiled in water with a little salt till tender, and served with butter; baked whole in a covered dish with a little milk or gravy; cut in quarters, and stewed with milk, butter, salt, pepper, and a little flour. The large and mild Spanish onions can be tied in a cloth and boiled or steamed like a pudding. A crust of paste receives and retains the flavour. Or first boil, then bake in a paper. Onions, though often eaten as a vegetable, are still more used to give their mucilage and flavour to soups, stews, or meat and fish pies, which see. Asparagus.—Scrape the bottom part; boil in a clean sauce- pan with but little water, a little salt and sugar. Serve on toast, with butter or melted butter. Celery, oftenest eaten raw, is very nice, cooked and served like asparagus. It also gives a delicate flavour to soups and stews. Sea Kale is cooked like Asparagus. Green Cabbage and Savoys.—These close-leaf plants require well washing and soaking in salt and water before boiling; remove the stems, and boil in plenty of water, with salt and a little soda. If large, cut in four. Sprouts, Spring Greens, Turnip Tops, Ac.—These only require washing before boiling, and boil till tender in plenty of water, with a little salt.