HOW TO COOK. 28 Steaks may also be made tender by pounding them with a mallet so as to mash the fibres. Fowls, turkeys, pheasants, &c., are boiled, roasted, or baked; geese and ducks usually roasted or baked. Birds cooked whole are stuffed with potatoes, bread crumb, onions, salt, pepper, sweet herbs, &c. Turkeys and ducks are sometimes stuffed with olives, chesnuts, truffles, mushrooms; geese with onions. As apple-sauce is eaten with roast goose, an apple stuffing should be good; or a cranberry one in turkeys. Chickens, if young and tender, are by many preferred broiled. They should be split in half through back and breast bone broiled thoroughly over a clear lire, salted and peppered, anc. served on a hot plate with butter and bits of parsley. Tough chickens are best stewed or fricaseed, because time can be taken to stew them slowly and make them tender. A1J tough meats can be made tender by slowly simmering or steaming them for a sufficient time in a closely covered vessel. The most scraggy portions Of necks and skins may in this way be made tender and good eating; and these cheapest parts of animals contain more nourishment than the more choice and costly ones. Fish abound in English seas, and furnish a vast quantity of highly nutritive food. It is boiled, fried, broiled, baked, and made into stews, soups, hashes, pies, and puddings. Most fish to boil require to be plunged in plenty of boiling water, which is the better for salt, vinegar, white wine, and some flavours. Lobsters, crabs, oysters, &c., furnish a variety of nice dishes. The cheaper kinds of fisli are often really better food than the most costly; and, when properly cooked, are very palatable. Canned meat, ready cooked, is now brought in large quantities from Australia, &c., and canned salmon and lobsters from North America. The meat is cheap and does well for stews, meat pies, and many other purposes. FOOD IN ITS RELATIONS TO HEALTH. In the choice of food audits preparation, the first considera- tion should be its healthfulness. The gratification of the palate must be a quite subordinate consideration. A natural, unperverted taste, may be a good guide to a nutritious and healthful diet; but unhappily, our artificial modes of life sel-