YET A WORE. In the important matters of cooking and eating we can learn something of our neighbour nations, and even from people whom we look upon as barbarians or savages—people who lack the refinements of civilisation, but whose instincts are in many respects finer than our own. The English, and their descendants, the Americans, who have exaggerated some of their faults if they may also have improved upon some of their virtues, are profuse eaters—wasteful, extravagant— tending always to excess in eating and drinking, and tending also to the diseases which it engenders. The Americans eat too many things, eat too hurriedly, too much, and do not give themselves time or leisure for digestion. The English eat too often, too much, and too large a proportion of animal food. An American, in ten or fifteen minutes, will eat for breakfast—a beefsteak, mutton chop, veal cutlet, fried ham and eggs, fried fish, broiled oysters, and buckwheat cakes, and wash it all down with two or three cups of strong coffee, glancing meanwhile at the morning paper, and then hurrying off to business. At noon he bolts a lunch as hurriedly, stand- ing at a counter or perched on a high stool, and after a hard day's work comes home to a profuse dinner. American child- ren even are allowed to eat nearly in the same fashion, and so stimulated into precocity and disease. An Englishman takes a light breakfast, but with too little variety, and his favourite rasher of bacon is not a nice dish to begin with. A nicely boiled, scrambled, or poached egg, or a well cooked omelet, or bit of fried or broiled fish, would be much better. The breakfast rolls of most English bakers are detestable. As a rule they make the worst bread in Europe, and'I fear the American bakers are not much better. Why is it that when one can always get delightful bread in France, Germany, Italy, and especially in Austria, English and Ameri- can bakers should fail so utterly ? The Aerated Bread, how- ever, both white and brown, seems pure and wholesome. The English lunch is not generally a nice meal. It is too much bread and meat. The French dejeuner a la fourchette, with its succession of four or five nice dishes, is delightful, and just what