HOW TO COOK. 33 tion, in proportion to the saturation with salt or smoke. As a rule, what will make meat and fish keep out of the stomach, hinders its digestion. This rule applies also to fruits preserved in sugar, and to rich cakes, mince pies, and other pastry. It does not, of course, apply to dried things, and those kept from the atmosphere. Hard boiled, and still more hard fried eggs, are very difficult of digestion. So are some kinds of cheese, and especially toasted cheese. When cheese is used in cookery it should be grated fine, and well distributed through the maccaroni, pud- ding, or vegetable soup, so as not to run together in lumps. When so separated, or if eaten without cooking, well masti- cated and mingled with other food, it digests with sufficient readiness. Many persons cannot sleep well after eating fruits cooked in nuich sugar, as sweet tarts, preserves, jams, &c. All fruits are by many considered best in the morning. The Spaniards say that oranges are “gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.” All greasy food is to be avoided. Fats, and especially animal fats, and fats exposed to much heat, are very difficult of digestion, clog the liver, and overload the whole glandular system. Olive oil and sweet butter are the least harmful, but these shoidd be used in moderation. “ Rich” pastry is indi- gestible, because the flour is protected from the action of the gastric juice by the baked oil, butter, or fat. Bettor use less shortening and some baking powder. Salmon, mackerel, eels, and other very oily fish are difficult of digestion. Veal and lamb, and immature animals, generally are harder to digest than meats at their maturity. Three-fourths of the human, race eat little or no flesh meat. Even in Great Britain half the people seldom taste it except on Sundays. Millions in various parts of the world refrain from eating flesh from religious or sentimental scruples, or from a conviction that it is needless, or prejudicial to health. It is quite certain that it is not necessary to sustain the highest health, the greatest physical and intellectual vigour, or the greatest longevity. When flesh is eaten, it should be that of animals called clean in the Law of Moses. Swine are always unclean and often diseased, and infested with the germs of tape-worms and scrofula. If eaten in any form, pork, bacon, ham, or sausage c