97 HOW TO. CQOK. flour; cover it with the remainder let it stand all night in a moderately warm place. In the morning add the salt and as much warm water as will make the whole into a stiff paste; knead it well, and let it stand near the fire for two hours; then form it into loaves, and bake. The pans should be well but- tered. When sufficienfly baked, remove the loaves from the pans, and turn them on their sides, or upside-down, till cold, otherwise the under part of the loaves will be wet and blis- tered in consequence of the steam not escaping. The whole meal absorbs more liquid and requires rather more yeast or a longer time to rise than fine flour. Dough formed of coarse meal should not be made so stiff- as when formed of fine flour; if it be too soft after it has risen, add a little more meal; it also requires a hotter oven, and should remain in it longer. When brown bread is preferred rather moist, mix rye-meal with the wheat-meal; or pour a pint of boiling water upon one- third of the wheat-meal; stir it till it forms a thick paste, which divide into small portions to cool; then knead it ex- ceedingly well with the remaining two-thirds of the meal, adding the yeast and remaining fluid at the temperature of eighty or ninety degrees. Wheat-meal may be mixed with the meal or flour of rye, barley, oats, rice, or with boiled potatoes, apples, and any of the pulpy vegetables. A small proportion of rice flour or boiled rice makes the bread keep moister. One- fourth pea or bean meal first boiled in water, makes bread very hearty, and better than the same weight of beef at a quarter the price. Apples give a nice flavour to bread. They should be pared, cored, and stewed in very little water, and then kneaded with the meal or flour. Very little water is needed. A Peclt of Oootl Bread.—Peel and boil three pounds pota- toes, and beat to a cream while warm, add a pint of cold water, and strain through a cullender; add a half pint of good yeast. Stir well together, and pour into the centre of a peck of wheat- meal or flour, mix to consistence of cream, cover closely, and keep warm an hour; pour in five pints of milk-warm water, and two ounces salt, and mix the whole to a nice light dough. In about two hours make into seven loaves, and bake one hour and a half in a good oven. Bread, Wheat flour and Rice.—Simmer one pound of rice in three quarts of water until the rice is soft and the water absorbed; when cool, mix it thoroughly with four pounds of G