81 HOW TO COOK. sufficiently smooth roll it a third time. The addition of a little cream would be an improvement. This crust, when well made, is very agreeable and wholesome. Good Crust—Put some light white bread into a basin, and add a pint of boiling milk; let it remain closely covered till cold; rub a little butter in, and as much flour as will render it of proper consistency; add a little salt, mix the whole together, and roll it out as required. Or, flour sixteen ounces, butter three ounces, white and yolk of an egg well beaten, yeast one table-spoonful. Warm the butter in half a pint of new milk, let it stand till lukewarm, mix well all together, and let the dough stand to rise; roll it out, and bake as quickly as possible. MEAT AND FISH PUDDINGS Are easily made, and are an economical form of cookery, as the paste envelope saves all the nutriment and flavour. They require, however, good digestions. Cheap meat and fish may be used; but not any that is in the least tainted. Lumps of charcoal, or washing in Condy’s fluid, will remove a slight taint. A lump of charcoal may be placed in the centre of the pudding, or any dish which re- quires it. Pudding cloths must be kept very clean, but should never be washed with soap. Beef Pudding.—Cut up about a pound of beef steak, pieces of beef, or cold roast beef, put in a dish, and sprinkle over with a teaspoonful of salt, a half ditto of pepper, and a tea- spoonful of flour, the same of chopped onions; mix well to- gether; make six or eight ounces of paste, roll a quarter of an inch or more thick; put the pudding cloth in a basin, sprinkle some flour on it, lay in your paste, then the meat, some fat, and three wine-glasses of water; enclose in the paste, tie the cloth loosely, boil in four quarts of water one hour. This will serve as a model for boiled meat puddings; but they may be baked in a dish witli a crust over, when they are generally called pies; but made in the same manner. In either case a sauce or gravy may be added; in the baked dish by opening the crust, and turning it in just before it is done; in the boiled, when it is dished for the table. Family Steak Pie.—Take and cut two pounds of beef in F