11(3 HOW TO COOK. it in a cloth or cup, or bake it thirty or forty minutes. Serve with butter and sugar, or pour custard over each. Bachelor's Pudding.—Take four ounces of minced apple, four ounces well-washed and picked currants, four ounces grated bread, two ounces of sugar; beat up three eggs with a little essence of lemon and nutmeg, put in a buttered dish, tie down and boil three hours. Holy Poly Pudding.—Stewed fruit, jams, marmalade, cur- rants, chopped raisins, or treacle, &c., may be spread upon a light paste, then rolled up and boiled in a cloth. Roll out the paste thin, and cut it eight or ten inches broad, and as long as convenient. Spread upon it a thick layer of fruit, leaving an inch at each end free from fruit: roll it up and twist the ends; wrap it in a floured cloth, or put it in a net, and boil it an hour or an hour and a half, according to size. Gipsy Pudding.—Cut some thin slices of stale bread; spread one side thickly with jam of any kind; pack them into a but- tered tart-dish, and pour over them the yolks of six eggs beaten up in a gill of French brandy. Bake for twenty min- utes, and sift sugar over it before serving. Sweet-Orange Pudding, Balced.—Beat together four eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of four sweet oranges, and the grated rind of one; add four ounces of sugar, a gill of white wine, and sufficient grated biscuit to make it a batter. Put in tart-dish, bind with a puff paste, and bake half an hour. Gooseberry Pudding, Balced.—Scald a quart of gooseberries in water until they are soft, drain, and when cold, work them smooth with a spoon. Add half a pound of powdered loaf- sugar, four ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of bread-crumbs, and the yolks of six and the whites of four eggs. Beat all to- gether for a quarter of an hour. Strew sifted sugar over, and serve either hot or cold. Rhubarb Pudding.—Make a good paste; line your pudding- basin; cut your rhubarb into short lengths about the size of gooseberx-ies; add the rind of a lemon pared as thin as possi- ble, a good slice of butter, and plenty of sugar, a few chopped almonds if liked. Pack in the rhubarb as tightly as you can; no water; cover it with a top crust, tie a floured cloth over it, and boil for an hour or more. Fig Pudding.—Wash and chop fine half a pound of the figs,