HOW TO COOK. 67 and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. Take out the bunch of herbs, and put in a quarter of a pint of cream ; thicken the liquor with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled in flour; stir in a glass of white wine; keep shaking the pan one way until the fricassee is thick and smooth, dish it up, and garnish it with slices of lemon. How to Cook all Kinds of Fish in Baking Stew-pan.—Take six pounds of any fish, cut it crossways, two inches thick, put them in the pan, with salt, pepper, chopped onions; fill it up, well intermix the seasoning; when full, put in a basin four ounces of flour, which mix with a quart of water, which pour over, shake the pot, well cover it, bake two hours in a rather hot oven; seasoning to be four teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, two onions, and chopped parsley; onions may be omitted, but use herbs and mixed spice. Fish Cakes.—Take the meat from the bones of any kind of cold fish Put bones, head, and fins into a saucepan, with a pint of water, salt, pepper, an onion, sweet herbs, to stew for gravy: mince the fish, and mix it with cold potatoes and bread- crumbs, with a little parsley and seasoning, Make into cakes with white of egg, or butter, or milk; egg over, cover with bread-crumbs, and fry a light brown. Pour over the gravy, and serve hot. The commonest and cheapest fish, salt cod, ling, haddocks, herrings, bloaters, &c., if boiled and freed from bones, are good minced with cold boiled potatoes, or mashed, and then fried or baked, either in a mass or in cakes. Boiled Lobsters.—Put the lobsters into a kettle of boiling w ater, with a little salt in it. A large lobster will take half an hour. When the lobster is taken up, tie a little piece of butter, or dripping, in a bit of muslin, and just rub it lightly over the shell to make it look bright; oil does better. For roasted lobster, only half boil it, rub the shell with but- ter, set it before the fire, and baste it with butter until it has a dark brown colour. The French way of boiling lobsters is to put into the water in which they are to be cooked—salt, pepper, vinegar, parsley, scallions, or an onion, and bay leaves, and to leave the lob- sters in the liquor until it is cold. To Stew Lobsters.—Pick all the meat out of the shell of a fine boiled lobster, or two smaller ones, and do not break it more than necessary. Boil the shells in a pint of water, with