HOW TO COOK. 10 healthful and delicious diet! What is there more lovely to the sight, or delightful to smell and taste than a dish of ripe strawberries, peaches, apples, pears, grapes, &c.? It is hard to tell whether sight, smell, or taste gives us most pleasure. It is good to enjoy them all. Unhappily, we do not have a full supply of such food in all climates, or at all seasons, and we are forced to prepare coarser materials by the processes of cookery for our ordinary diet. Thus we gather the seeds of various grasses—wheat, rye, oats, barley, maize, rice,—and by grinding, roasting, baking, boiling, toasting, and by combinations with milk, butter, eggs, sugar, fruits, etc., we make a variety of food which satisfies our palates and nourishes our bodies. We do the same with the leaves of plants, roots, bulbs, and tubers, and by the application of heat make cabbages, turnips, onions, and even potatoes palatable and nutritious. Heat seems to create the peculiar properties as well as flavours of tea, coffee, and chocolate, and it wonderfully alters the smell, taste, and digestibility of potatoes, peas, beans, and many vegetables. The flesh of animals would scarcely be eaten raw, save in the last extremity of famine; and though civilized men eat raw oysters, and savages raw fish, few fish would be caught but for the transformations of cookery. Heat swells and bursts the starch cells in plants, as seen in parched corn, boiled rice, and boiled or baked potatoes; it hardens the albumen in eggs, fish, and flesh; it softens fibrous substances, as in the roasting and baking of apples, pears, roots, and vegetables; and it develops or creates new flavours, as in pulpy fruits, the crusts of bread, roasted or boiled flesh, eggs, beans, and peas. Cold lias some of the effects of heat. All lovers of ices know that cold makes sweets and certain flavours more delicious. Honey never tastes so good as at or below the freezing point. We all know the taste of cold water. In a warm climate a lump of ice to cool our water, wine, milk, butter, fruit, or salad, makes a world of difference. If drying in the sun was the earliest kind of cookery, roasting before an open fire must have been the next. Broil- ing on the coals soon followed, then baking in the hot ashes. Some of the best flavoiu’S are developed in the open air, and by the free action of oxygen. Roast or broiled meat is better than baked or fried, and has a much finer flavour than boiled meat. So the sweetest bread is the thin cake