46 HOW TO COOK. until they become quite light, never hard like paste, as when stirred with a spoon. Potatoes, if large, may be peeled and cut in four pieces, put in boiling water with some salt, boiled rather fast, and well drained when done ; dry near the fire, and mash as above. Broiled Potatoes.—Parboil large potatoes, peel and cut in thick slices. Broil on gridiron over a clear fire, until brown on both sides. Serve on hot dish, with a little salt, and bit 01 butter on every shoe. Fried Potatoes.—Peel a pound of potatoes, cut them into very thin slices, almost shavings; put oil, butter, or fat, two inches deep, into a frying-pan; when very hot, but not burning, throw a few slices in at a time, move them about with a skimmer. When a nice brown colour, take them out and sprinkle some salt over; serve separate, or over broiled meat. Fried Cold Potatoes.—Cut them in slices from one quarter to half an inch thick, and slightly dredge with flower and salt; fry in a little oil, butter, or fat until of a nice brown. They may also be egged or dipped in batter, but in that case must be fried slowly. How to dress Cold Boiled Potatoes.—Slice, or cut in pieces six or eight potatoes, and put in a frying or saucepan, with half an ounce of butter; stir a teaspoonful of flour in half a pint of milk, and add a little salt, pepper, and parsley or celery ;‘pour upon the potatoes, simmer gently ten minutes, and serve. Many cold boiled vegetables are nice done in this way. Sweet Potatoes, or Yams, are either boiled or baked in their skins, and may be cooked in a variety of ways like potatoes. Potato Kale or Colcannon.—Half head of cabbage, six pota - toes, two ounces of butter, one gill of cream. Boil the cab- bage, till very tender; boil and mash the potatoes. Then mix them together with the butter, cream, and salt to taste; put them in a saucepan over the fire, and stir till hot. Servo immediately. Potatoes, Cabbages, So.—Cabbage, greens, spinach, &c., boiled and chopped fine, may be mixed with twice their weight of mashed potatoes; then add a little butter, pepper, and salt, and press the whole into a well-buttered basin or mould ; set it in a hot oven five or six minutes, then remove the mo.uld, and serve.