117 HOW TO COOK. add them to two cups of grated bread, and a cup of cream, or its equivalent of butter, already beaten together, then add a half cup of sugar and a cup of milk; an egg or two will not hurt it. Pour the mixture into a well oiled mould, and steam four hours. Serve with wine or lemon sauce. Cocoa Nut Pudding.—Remove the brown skin from the meat of a cocoa nut, grate it, and mix with half a pint of milk, three ounces of white sugar, and half an ounce grated lemon- peel, and a little butter if liked. Put in a tin lined with paste, and bake a light brown. Normandy Pippin Pudding.—Put six or eight Normandy pippins into a tart-dish, quite cover them with cider, strew in a good deal of sugar, and place them over-night in a very alow Oven. The next day they should be found to be nicely swelled, and have absorbed the cider. Put more sugar to them, place an edge of crust round the dish, make a rich custard, pour it Over the apples, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. Souffle.—Boil rice in milk until tender; or take ground rice, arrowroot, or corn flour boiled in milk; whisk the whites of eggs to a firm froth, stir gently together, and bake in a moder- ate oven, keeping the door closed fifteen minutes. Serve immediately. Custard Pudding.—Flour or ground rice two ounces; milk or cream, one pint; eggs, four to six; sugar, two ounces; flavouring. Beat the eggs with the sugar and flour; stir in the milk gradually. Simmer or steam in a buttered dish or in cups about forty-five minutes; or bake twenty minutes. Minute Pudding.—Take for each person one teacup of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of flour. Place the milk over the fire, stir in the eggs beaten very light, and the flour wetted smooth with a little cold milk. Let it cook a few minutes, stirring constantly; then put the pudding into well-oiled tea- cups. When cool, turn the cup over a saucer and the pudding will slip out. Wine or fruit sauce. Batter Puddings.—The batter for puddings should be neither too stiff nor too liquid. When fruit is added, the batter must be made thicker, or the fruit will sink. Flour puddings are improved by mixing the ingredients, except the eggs, some hours, or even a day, before they are cooked; but when milk i3 used, it should not be mixed more than an hour or two