HOW TO COOK. 22 race. These are wheat, rye, barley, oats, maize, called Indian corn, or “corn” in America, rice, buckwheat, millet, peas, beans, lentils. These are all highly nutritious substances, affording an abundance both of the heat-producing and flesh- forming principles. Peas, beans, and lentils are especially rich in the latter, and afford a perfect substitute for the flesh of animals. The German armies in France in the late war were admirably sustained by vegetable sausages, of which peas were the chief ingredient. The cereals, as wheat, rye, maize, &c., are chiefly used in the form of bread; but it is not clear that this is the best mode of eating them. It is, however, one of the most convenient. Bread, unhappily, is now made almost entirely by the bakers, taking from women one more branch of productive industry and inflicting over-raised, deteriorated, tasteless, and often miserably adulterated bread upon us, instead of the sweet, healthy, home-made bread that might be baked in every family. The best bread is made of reheat, and the best wheat bread is that made of pure unbolted or whole meal. The brown •bread of the bakers is generally an inferior article, made of a mixture of poor flour and bran, and spoiled by too much fer- mentation. Bakers’ so-called “ home-made” bread is merely their ordinary white bread, fermented much less than usual, and therefore more sweet, healthful, and nutritious. Unfermented bread is made more quickly, and is by many preferred to the fermented. If a small quantity of carbonate or bi-carbonate of soda be intimately mixed with the flour, and it then be wet with sour milk, a weak dilution of hydro-chloric acid in water, or vinegar in water, carbonic acid will be disen- gaged by the union of the alkali and acid, which will form little bubbles through the whole mass. If baked at once in a quick oven, the bread so made is light and wholesome. The bread rises by means of the same g s that is produced by fermenta- tion. The common baking powders are a combination of bi-carbonate of soda and acetic, or other dry acid. The most perfect combination is that of bi-carbonate of soda and hydro- chloric acid, which form common salt; the acid, however, is not so convenient to use as the dry combined powders, and is not always pure. The purest bread, though its taste does not always suit people accustomed to that made with yeast, is the Aerated, made by patented machinery. The flour is mixed in a cylinder,