HOW TO COOK. 127 whole over the fire for one minute, after the cheese has been added. Pouncled Cheese.—Dry or hard cheese, eight ounces; butter, one to two ounces, or a tablespoonful of salad oil. Pound and rub the cheese and butter in a mortar till quite smooth; it may then be spread on bread, or between two pieces of bread as sandwiches; some add mustard and cayenne. When not used immediately, it may be pressed well down in a jar, and cov- ered with clarified butter. Welsh Rabbit.—Toast a round of bread from a quartern loaf; put about four ounces of cheese into a small saucepan or pipkin with a teaspoonful of mustard, a little pepper and salt, and a wineglass of ale or milk; break the cheese small, set it on the fire, and stir until it is melted, then pour over the toast, and serve quickly; or, toast a round of bread, and place on it two pieces of cheese, single Gloucester, a quarter of an inch thick; place it before the fire, and as the cheese melts, spread it over the bread with a knife, also a little cayenne and mustard. Cheese Stirabout.—Nearly fill the iron pot with water, throw in three teaspoonfuls of salt; when boiling, throw in by de- grees some Indian meal,—the quantity depends on the quality; on an average, if the water is soft, one pound to every two quarts; that would be four pounds. When well stirred, re- move the husk with a spoon which floats on the top. Then throw in one pound1 of strong cheese, broken in pieces, or grated. Boil for twenty minutes, and serve. Or, when cold, cut in pieces, and fry. Cheese Pudding.—Cheese grated, four ounces; crumb of bread, two to four ounces; butter, one to four ounces; yolks of eggs, one to four; cream or milk one cupful. Pour the boiling milk upon the bread crumbs, and, when nearly cold, add the cheese and butter, beat the whole well, and boil it gently till smooth; let it stand till rather cool, then stir in the eggs pre- viously beaten. SALADS. In southern climates, a salad is an important part of almost every meal. It makes its appearance with great regularity at