THE RECEIPT BOOK. 45 changing- that which is disagreeably sandy to a pleasant colour : the method of preparing it is as follows—take two ounces of scrapings of leaa, an ounce of hartshorn shav- ings, a quarter of an ounce of lithage ol gold, and'adram of camphor, put them into a pint of soft water, and let them boil for half an hour. When cold and fine, pour the liquid off, and add a drachm each of sugar of lead and rosemary flowers. Boil these up together; pour off the liquid; and when fine, it is fit for use. 178. Dr. Stoughton's celebrated stomachic elixir.—Pare off the thin yellow rinds of six large Seville oranges, and put them in a quart bottle, with an ounce of genetian root scraped and sliced, and half a drachm of cochineal. Pour over these ingredients a pint of brandy; shake the bottle well several times during that and the following day; let it stand two days more to settle, and clear it off into bot- tles for use. Take one or two tea-spoonsful morning and afternoon, in a glass of wine or in a cup of tea. This is an elegant preparation, little differing from the compound tincture of gentian either of the London or Edinburgh dispensatories; the former adding half an ounce of canella alba, (white cinnamon;) and the latter only substituting for cochineal of Stoughton, half an ounce of husked ana bruised seeds of the lesser cardamom. In deciding on their respective merits, it should seem, that Stoughton’s elixir has the advantage in simplicity, and, perhaps, altogether as a general* stomachic. Indeed, for some intentions, both the London and Edinburgh compositions may have their respective claims to preference; in a cold stomach, the cardamam might be useful; and, in a laxative habit, the canella alba. As a family medicine, to be at all times safely resorted to, there is no need to hesitate recommend- ing Dr. Stoughton’s elixir. 179. Cure for a pimpled face.—Take an ounce each of liver of sulpher, roch alum, and common salt, and two drachms each of sugar-candy and spermaceti. Pound and sift these articles, then put the whole into a quart bottle, and add half a pint of brandy, three ounces of white lilly water, and the same of spring water. Shake it well toge- ther, and keep it for use. With this liquid the face is to bo