78 THE RECEIPT ROOK. colour, add some of the dark blue mixed with turpentine. Throw on red, yellow, black and green, in the pro- portion that you choose; then with a quill draw lines through the colours; after which throw on a greater or less quantity of blue, green, pink or purple, much diluted, and containing plenty of gall or turpentine.—4. Throw on very fine red for veins: then plenty of the turpentine blue. If your colours are good this produces a handsome pattern in a short time.—5. Throw on some dark blue mixed with turpentine, and take this up with a paper previously stained of yellowy light blue, red, pink or green colour. To obtain a good g-reen for this purpose, boil French berries in wrater, add a little spirit or liquid blue, and carefully brush over the paper (which must be good and well sized) with this mixture. 281. A few general and recapitulary observations may not be useless. Let your materials be of the best quality. Grind your colours finely, and keep them clean. When your colours are too thick for use, add fresh ground co- lour with water and a little gall to them, and stir them up well. Be particular in getting good turpentine. W hen the gum gets dirtied throw it away and make a fresh one. 282. The neatest and most convenient method of marb- ling-, the edges of books, is to dip one volume at a time, doing the ends first, throwing back the boards to do the fore edge ; and hold the booK tight with both hands and not to dip deeper than the surface, to prevent the solution from spoiling the book. It is the safest way to tie the book betw'een boards before dipping. For the sake of conveni- ence and economy, when only a few books are to be mar- bled, a small trough should be used. 283. Marbled paper is glazed by a machine similar to that with which cottons are glazed, a sight of which may be obtained at any calenderers, but a machine of this kind would only be required by such as might marble very largely. Book edges are polished by the agate burnisher, and so might small pieces of paper be polished, which were required for any particular purpose. Good common pressing, or at most hot-pressing, might serve instead of glazing-. For any fancy work it would have a fine effect