108 THE RECEIPT BOOK. This may be either be employed as an assistant to a course of mercurial alteratives, or taken after the mercury has been used for some time. It strengthens the stomach and restores fresh vigour to habits emaciated by the vene- real disease. It may also be taken in the rheumatism, and cutaneous disorders proceeding from foulness of the blood and juices. For all these intentions, it is preferable to the Decoction of Woods. This decoction may be taken from a pint and a half to two quarts in a day. The following decoction is said to be similar to that used by Kennedy, in the cure of the venereal disease, and may supply the place of the Lisbon diet-drink. Take of sarsaparella, three ounces; liquorice and me- zereon root, of each half an ounce; shavings of guaiacum and sassafras wood, of each one ounce; crude antimony powdered, an ounce and a half. Infuse these ingredients in eight pints of boiling water for twenty four hours, then boil till one half of the water is consumed; then strain the decoction. This decoction may be used in the same rnauner as the preceding. 381, Decoction of seneka.—Take of seneka rattle-snake root, one ounce ; water, a pint and a half. Boil to one pint and strain. This decoction is recommended in the pleurisy, dropsy, rheumatism, and obstinate disorders of the skin. The dose is two ounces, three or four times a day, or oftener, if the stomach will bear it. 382. White decoction.—Take of the purest chalk, in powder, two ounoes; gum arabic, half an ounce; water, three pints. Boil to one quart, and strain the decoction. This is a proper drink in acute diseases, attended with a looseness, and where acidities abound in the stomach. It is proper for children when afflicted with sourness of the stomach, and for persons who are subject to the heart- burn. It may be sweetened with sugar, as it is used, and two ot!' three ouhces of simple dnnamon water added to it. ' An ounce of powdered chalk, mixed with two pints of water, will occasionally supply the place of this decoction, and also of the chalk julap.