188 THE RECEIPT BOOK. roll, and put it in the middle of your dish, moistened first with some of the soup ; and when the cakes are thoroughly melted, set it over the fire till it is just at boiling. 612. A white portable soup.—Bone a leg of veal, take off all the skin and fat; likewise two dozen of fowls, or chicknns’ feet, washed and chopped to pieces; put all into a stoving pot, with three gallons of soft water, till the meat is so tender as to separate. Keep the pot covered, and under a constant fire; in about eight hours, try the jelly in a cup, and when cold, if it is so stiff that it may be cut w'ith a knife, take it off, and strain it throug'h a sieve, but take of all the fat: provide china cups, and fill them with the clear jelly, and proceed as directed for the brown portable soup. When any is required fpr use, take a piece the size of a walnut, and pour a pint of boiling water on it, stirring it till it is dissolved; season it with salt to the taste, and it will make a bason of strong broth. If for a dfsh of soup, boil vermicelli in water, then to a cake of soup pour a pint of water, four cakes wall make two quarts; when melted, set it over the fire to simmer, pour it in the dish, put in thin slices of bread hardened before the fire, and the vermicelli upon them. 619. Gravy soup.—Take the bones of a rump of beef, a piece of the neck, and boil all the goodness from them j strain it off, take a piece of butter, put it into a stewpan, brown it, and add to it an onion stuck with cloves, some celery, cos lettuce, cheroil, endive, spinach, turnips and carrots; season it with pepper, salt, and cloves, and boil all together; put in sippets of bread dried by the fire, and a glass of red wine. Serve it up with a French roll, and laid in the middle. If in season, add green peas, tops of asparagus,- and button onions, steamed. See. Spring soup and soup jnlien are the same as the above, omitting the Lettuce and chervil for the latter, the former is named from the season when carrots and turnips are to be had. 614. White vermicelli soup.—To three quarts of veal gravy, add a quarter of a pound of vermicelli, blanched.