46 THE RECEIPT BOOK, freely and frequently bathed; remembering to shake the bottle, and, on going to bed, lay all over the face linen w hich has been dipped in it. In ten or twelve days, it is said, a perfect cure will be effected of this very unplea- sant complaint, as nothing in this composition can prove prejudicial. 180. Art of making red sealing wax.—To every ounce of shell lac, take half an ounce each of resin and vermillion, all reduced to a powder. Melt them over a moderate lire, and, when thoroughly incoroorated, and sufficiently cool, form the composition into sticks, of any length or thick- ness, and either flat or round, as may be thought best. On account of the dearness of shell lac, seed lac is usually sub- stituted, even in what is denominated the best Dutch seal- ing wax. Boiled Venice turpentine may be used, with good effect, instead of resin: thus may be made a line red sealing wax. A more ordinary sort, but very good for most occasions, may be made by mixing equal parts of resin and shell lac, wflth two parts of red lead, and one of vermillion, instead of all vermillion, according to the pro- portion directed for the best wax, and to be made in a si- milar way. In a still commoner sort, the vermillion is often omitted; and even a large proportion of whitening, strange as it may seem, is also actually introduced. 181. The art of making black sealing icax, Sfc.—This sealing wax is made by stirring into any quantity of gum lac, or shell lac, half its weight of finely powdered ivorv black; adding—to improve the beauty of the wax, as well as to prevent its becoming’ too brittle—half their weight of Venice turpentine. When the w hole is melted, and incorporated by sufficient stirring over a slow' fire, it is poured on a stone or iron plate, which has been previously well oiled, and, while soft, rolled into sticks; the sticks, both of red and black wax, are lastly exposed to a proper degree of heat for acquiring a glossy surface. In a simi- lar way, substituting’ verditer, Prussian blue, and other proper powder, for ivory black, may easily be made sealing wax of any desired colour. t 183. Soft sealing wax for impressing seals of office, &c