THE RECEIPT ROOK. 150 here directed ; and add a trifling quantify of the solution of tin in, war in water, passing the silk through this previous to dipping it in the dye. The quantity of solution used should be barely sufficient to acidulate the water. This colour may be done also with cochineal and safflower, and it is then fust. You may proceed as for scarlet, only adding some prepared safflower dye, and a little old cochineal liquor, if you mean to dye very deep. 508. To make flesh colours.—Flesh colours are done with cochineal. In preparing your silk, wet it first in warm water, then in warm water again, in which a small quantity of alum water, and a smaller of tartar have been dissolved. Both these together must hardly make the water taste. Then if you have been dyeing common red with cochineal, dip a small quantity of this old dye into your pan ; but if too strong, add hot water ; then put in your goods, and handle them to colour. If you want them deeper, strengthen your liquor and your dye. 509 To dye thick silks, satins, silk stockings, Sfc. of a flesh colour.—Wash your stockings clean in soap and water, then rinse in hot water ; if they should not then appear perfectly clean, cut half an ounce of white soap into thin slices, and put into a saucepan half full of boiling water ; when this soap is dissolved, cool the water in a pan, then put in the stockings, and boil them twenty minutes; take them out, and "rinse in hot water ; in the interim, pour three table spoonfuls of purple archil into a wash-hand bason half full of hot water; put the stockings in this dye water, and when of the shade called half violet or lilac, take them from the dye water, and slightly rinse them in cold water; when dry, hang them up in a close room, in which sulphur is burnt, when they are evenly bleached to the shade required of flesh colour, take them from the sulphuring room, and finish them by rubbing the right side with a clean flannel. Some persons calender them afterwards. Satins and silks are done just the same way. 510. To dye a buff, inclining to a dull orange.—This co- our has been much worn of late, and is known to the trade