THE RECEIPT BOOK. 58 212. Ginger drops.—These drops may be made in the following’ manner:—Beat, in a marble mortar, an ounce of the best candied orange-peal, with a little loai sugar, and, when it becomes a smooth paste, add hall a pound of loaf-sugar, and half an ounce of the best powdered s-ing-er. Then, with a little water to dissolve the sugar, boil the whole to a candy and drop it off irom the point of a knife on writing paper, in small round drops, they will come off the paper. When quite cold, are to be kept in papered boxes. Among other good qualities of gin- gered is said to be beneficial in dimness of sight, &c. 213. Peppermint drops.—The best peppermint drop* are made by sifting finely-powdered loaf sugar into lemon iuice sufficient to make it of a proper consistence; then, gently drying it over the fire for a few minutes, and stir- ring in about fifteen drops of oil of peppermint for each ounce of sugar, dropping them from the point of a knife, 'like the ginger drops in the preceding article: some, in- stead of using lemon juice, or any heat, merely mix up the sugar and oil of peppermint with whites of eggs; beating the whole well together, dropping it on white paper, and drying the drops gradually before the fire, at a distance. 214. Art of making barley sugar.—Put some common or clarified syrup into a saucepan with a spont, such m im melting butter, if little is wanting to be made and bod it till it comes to a thickish consistence, carefully taking off whatever scum may rise; and , having prepared a mar ble stone, either with flutter or ml, just sufficiently o pre- vent sticking, pour the syrup gently alongdhe> in long sticks of whatever thickness may be desired, twist it, while hot, at each end, and let it remain till cold, w hen it will be fit for immediate use. •___ The rasped rind of lemon, boiled out of the sj rup,, g 5 a very agreeable flavour to barley sugar ; and indeed, die best is so prepared. So are Parley-sugar drop*. 915 Best Turkish method of making cofee.—It is ob- served by Mr. Eton, in his Survey of the Turkish Empire, that coffee* to be good, must either be 8J?^one b tbe moat impalpable powder, or pounded, a y Turks, in an iron mortar, with a hea>y 1 > . P