THE RECEIPT BOOK. 195 1 raCn Srr-tt0ltle UqCr bolum it is rich, ^ave 'Sya pie« of butter according to y°“ ; “leXi” aid boil a few minutes, and it will be good. 639 To draw gravy.-Fry some pieces of lean beef brown in a stewpan, with two or three onions, and two or three slices of lean bLn; pour in a ladle of strong broth, rubbing the br'own from the pan very clean ; add to it more strong broth, ohret white wine, anchovy, and a bunch of sweet herbs, reason it very well. Strain it off, and keep for use. 940. To make gravy for a Turkey or Fowl.—Toko a pound of lean beef, hack it, and flour it, put a piece of butter, as big as an egg into a stewpan, when melted, put in your beef fry it on all sides a little brown, pour n/three pints ot boiling water, a bundle of sweet herbs, two blades ot mace, three cloves, twelve wligle pepper corns, a piece of carrot, a crust of bread toasted brown, cover it close, and boil it till re- duced to about a pint, or less ; season it with salt, strain it on. 641. To make a standing Sauce.—Put in a-glazed jar, wit h the juice of two lemons, five anchovies, some whole Jamaica pepper, sliced ginger, inace, a few cloves, a little lemon peel, horseradish sliced, some sweet herbs, sixshalots, two spoonsful of capers and their liquor, into a linen bag, and put it info a quart of sherry, stop the vessel close, set it in a kettle of hot. water for an hour, and keep it in a warm place. A. spoonful or two of this liquor is good to any sauce. f>4‘2. Bechemel.—This is ,a stiff white sauce, somewhat of the nature of cream, but considerably thicker, and even approach- ing to a batter. Take strong veal gravy, boil, skim, and thicken it with flour and water, or a piece of butter rolled in flour ; add some more gravy, and when' sufficiently boiled, strain it off, put cream enough to make it entirely white, and of the consistency of a light batter ; then just simmer it toge- ther, but do not suffer it to boil above a minute or two, or it will injure the colour.. R. 2