THE RECEIPT BOOK. G9 some finely powdered fluate of lime, (fluor spar;) strew it evenly over the glass plate, (upon the waxed side,) and then o-ently pour upon it, so as not to displace the powder, as much sulphuric acid, diluted with thrice its weight ot water, as is sufficient to cover the powdered fluor spar. Let every thing-remain in this state for three hours, then remove the mixture, and clean the glass by a wash ot oil of turpentine,the figures which were traced through the w'ax will be found engraved on the glass ; while the parts which the wax covered will be uncorroded. 247. Preparation of ginger beer powder.—Take two drachms of tine loaf sugar, eight grains of ginger, and twenty six grains of carbonate of potass, all in fine pow- der—mix them intimately in a Wedgewood’s ware mortar Take also, twenty-seven grains of citric or tartaric acid, (the first is pleasantest, but the last is the cheapest.) The beer is prepared from the powder thus: take two tumbler glasses, each half filled with water—stir up the compound powder in one of them, and the acid powder in the other; then mix the two liquors—an effervescence takes place— the beer is prepared, and may be drank off. The effer- vescence is occasioned by the discharge of the carbonic acid of the carbonate of potass, which is given up because the potass has a stronger affinity for the tartaric acid. 248. Soda water poivders.—Soda water is prepared from powders precisely in the same manner as ginger beer,(see preceding art.) except that, instead of the two powders, there mentioned, the two following are used: for one glass thirty grains of carbonate of Soda; for the other gdass, twenty-five grains of tartaric (or citric) acid. 249. Lemonade powders.—Mix one part of citric acid with six parts of finely pounded loaf-sugar; a very fine dry lemonade is thus prepared, which may be preserved for any length of time. The quantity of this mixture neces- sary to be put into a glass of water to make a pleasant drink must be regulated by the taste of the person using it. 250. Instantaneous production of curds and whey from milk. —A very ready and elegant mode of procuring curds, and also a pleasant acidulous whey, is, by adding to a glassful of milk a little solution of citric acid—taking care not to