THE RECEIPT BOOK. 219 T 2 If it make them fly, open them all for a moment, and stop them up again. It will be tit to drink in a quarter of a year. 743. Orange Wine.—Put twelve pounds of fine sugar, and the whites of eight eggs well beaten, into six gallons of spring water ; let it boil an hour, scumming it all the time : when it is nearly cool, put to it the juice of fifty Seville oranges, six spoonsful of good ale yeast, and let it stand two days ; put it into another vessel, with two quarts of Rhenish wine, and the juice of twelve lemons ; let the juice of the lemons and the wine, and two pounds of double-refined sugar, stand close covered twelve hours before it is put into the orange wine, and scum off the seeds. The lemon-peels must be put in with the orange; half the rinds must be put into the vessel. It must stand ten or twelve days before it is fit to bottle. THE ART OF DYEING.—Resumed from Page 180. 744. A Yellow, supposed to stand all sorts of Proof.—First wash the articles in soap and water, then rinse in warm water, and boil together equally well, and adding the decoction to the colour required ; lastly, take them out, and let them be rinsed slightly, and dried in a warm room. Every gradation in the shades of slates or greys is made as in the foregoing recipes, by adding a larger or smaller quan- tity of dyeiDg materials. 745. For Bright or Pearl Grey:—For a mantle of about a pound weight, boil your water, and then put in about one ounce and a half of logwood—if good logwood, less may do; boil this twenty minutes ; add to it three or four drachms of pearl-ash ; let this boil five or ten minutes. In the meanwhile, wet your garment in warm water, and wring it; have also another copper or boiler, in which put a small bag with a handful of wheaten bran in it, and two drachms of powdered alum ; the alum will throw the scum on the top of the liquor, which take off; then put in your garment for five or ten minutes ; take it out, and pour a bowl of the logwood decoction into the vessel containing the bran water 5 then put in your goods, and boil to colour, adding more logwood than required.