50 THE RECEIPT BOOK. prints that represent the rising or setting of the sun will have a very picturesque appearance. Such as represent conflagrations have also a striking effect. There should be two groves for the print next the glass, that you may insert a second subject before you draw away the first; and that the lights in the back of the box may not be discovered. You must not, thinking to make the print more trans- parent, cover it with varnish; for that will prevent the gradation of the colours from being visible. The frame should enter the side of the box by a grove, that a variety of subjects may be introduced. 190. Chinese mode of rendering all sorts of cloth, and even muslin, water proof.—By the following simple process for making cloth water-proof, it is asserted that the Chinese render not only all the strongest cloths, but the most open muslins, impenetrable to the heaviest showers of rain; nor yet as it is said, will this composition fill up the interstices hf the finest lawn, or in the slightest degree injure the most brilliant colours. The composition to which these valuable qualities are imputed, is a solution of half an ounce of white wax, in a pint of spirits of turpentine. In a sufficient quantity of the mixture, made with these ma- terials, immerse the articles intended to be rendered water- proof, and hang them in the open air till they are dry. This is all the process necessary for accomplishing so de- sirable a purpose; against wkich, however, may be ob- jected the expence, and unpleasant scent, of the turpen- tine spirits; the objection may be remedied by using equal parts of spirits of wine and oil of wormwood, a mix- ture of which is said to dissipate the smell of turpentine; but the former, must necessarily be, at the same time, in seme degree augmented. 101. Incomparable apricot wine.—Take eight pounds of ripe apricots, slice them into two gallons of spring wa- ter, and add five pounds of powdered loaf sugar. Boil them together for some time, without taking off the scum, then skim it off, and quit it in a clean sieve, over a pan to save the liquor which comes from it. When the boding liquor is as clear as it can be made from the dross of the