THE RECEIPT I300K. 158 and run your feathers through it: rinse in cold water, and finish them as you would other feathers. 527. I'o clean brown fawn colour, and white feathers. —All these colours, are cleaned after the same method. Sup- pose a plume of three feathers is to be done, take a large sized wash-hand bason, cut two ounces of pure white soap into thin slices, and pour boiling river water upon it; add to these a piece of pearl-ash, as big as a pea; when this soap water comes to a hand heat, keep passing your feathers through it, and draw them gently between the hand. When this liquor is spent, a second must be made of half the quantity of soap, but of an equal quantity of ashes; as at first, you must run your feathers through this liquor, and, at last, rinse them in cold water, and beat them across the left hand, holding the feathers in your right; and thus, by continuing this ten minutes, the feathers will be nearly dry : then, with a fruit knife, or any other round edged knife, take one or two of the fibres at a time, and scrape them with the knife, turning them round as you want the curl to be ; then, if wanted flat, put in a large book to press. 52S. For cleaning copper or brass utensils used for dye- ing,—After you have been dyeing any colour in your copper or brass boiler, it is frequently tinged with the dye used ; it is therefore customary to clean these utensils out with a small (juantity of oil of vitriol and water, a little fine sand, or ashes, and a coarse flannel cloth ; it must afterwards be rubbed quite dry. 529. How to take the stain of the dye from the hands.— Take a small quantity of oil of vitriol and pour it into some cold water, in a wash-hand bason, and wash your hands in it without soap ; the dye will then come off. You may after- wards cleanse them completely in hot soap and water, taking care that all the acid is washed away before the soap is ap- plied. 530. To take off the stains of light colours, reds, greens, blues, $c. from'the hands.—Wash your hands in soap and water, in which some pearl-ash is dissolved.