26 THE RECEIPT BOOK. that the receipts following, will be found serviceable to tlu; public at large, and to the respectable body of cabinet makers in particular. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. It being necessary to say something as to the quality, na- ture, and texture of the wood most fit for dying, I shall state my remarks according to the following order: First, the wood mostly used to dye black is pear-tree, holly and beech, all of which take a beautiful black ; it should at the same time be observed not to take wood which has been long cut, or aged, but as fresh as possible. I have likewise found, that after the veneers have had an hour’s boiling, and taken out to cool, that the colour has struck much stronger. It should likewise be observed, that after the veneers are dyed, they should be dried in the air, and not by the fire, or in a kiln of any kind, as it tends to destroy the colour. Secondly, in order to dye blue, green, red, or other colours, take clear holly, put the veneers first in a box or trough, with clear water, and let them remain four or five days, changing the water once or twice as you find occasion ; the water acting as a purgative on the wood will bring forth abundance of slime &c. letting them dry about twelve hours before they are put in the dye; by observing this you will find the colour strike quicker and be of a brighter hue. 106. A fine black dye.—Have a chair-makers copper fixed, into which put six pounds of chip log-wood, and as many veneers as it will conveniently hold without pressing too tight; then fill with water and let it boil slowly for about three hours ; then add half a pound of powdered verdigris, half a pound of copperas, and four ounces of bruised nut-galls filling the copper up with vinegar as the water evaporates ; let it gently boil two hours each day till you find the wood to be dyed through, which according to the kind, will be in more or less time. 107. For a fine blue dye.—Take a clean glass bottle, into which put one pound of oil of vitriol, then take four ounces of the best indigo pounded in a mortar into small lumps; pHt