THE RECEIPT BOOK. 227 them for table. If you use them as a pickle, boil them as they come out of the brine, and lay them in vinegar. 777. Nasturtium seeds.—Take the seeds fresh of the plant when they are large, but before they grow hard, and throw them into the best white wine vinegar that has been bottled up with what spices are most agreeable, keep them close stopped iu a boitle. They are fit for use in eight days. 778. To pickle or make mangoes of melons.—Take green melons, and make a brine strong enough to hear an egg ; pour it boiling hot on the melons, keeping them down quite under the brine ; let them stand five or six days'; then slit them down on oneside, take out the seeds, scrape them a little in the in- side, aud wash them clean with cold water. Take a clove of garlic, a little ginger and nutmeg sliced, and whole pepper, put these proportionably into the melons, filling them up with mus- tard seed lay them iu an earthen pot with the slit upwards, and take one part of mustard, and two parts of vinegar enough to cover them, pouring it upon them scalding hot, and keep them close stopped. 779. Mushrooms.—Cut the stems of small buttons at the bottom wash them in two or three waters with a piece of flannel Have a stewpan on the fire, with some spring water that has had a handful of common salt thrown into it, aad as soon as it boils, put in your bottoms. When they have boiled about three or four minutes throw them into a cullender, and spread them quick upon a linen cloth, and cover them with another, Have ready several,wide mouthed bottles, and as you put in the mushrooms, mix a blade of mace and some nutmeg sliced amongst them, fill your bottles with distilled vinegar. Pour over them some melted.mutton fat that has been well strained. 780. Barberries.—Take white wine vipegar, and 4>ater, of each ;an equal quantity, to every quart, put in half a pound of moist sugar, pick the worst of your barberries, and boil them in this liquor, and put the best into glasses. Boil it till it looks of a fine colour, let it stand till cold, strain it through a cloth, wringing it to get all the colour from the barberries,