THE RECEIPT BOOK. 157 522. Another receipt.—Use blue vitriol and logwood, as before described for silk and woollen, at a. blood heat; this also is a false colour, but very bright. 523. Broton feathers—Next require our consideration. Neither cam-wood, bar-wood, nor the other woods will do ; but madder, archil, walnut root and find, and green copperas are used ; brown being a shade of black, and such a number of combinations entering into it, must be dyed as black is, only not adding the copperas till the feathers have been one or two days in the liquor. The copperas, in the browns, serves to blacken them. Galls and sumach are always used for browns. If for red or brown madder, archil, &c. are mostly used, and saddened by copperas. In fawn colours, bright root colours. See. fustic is also used ; but for chocolate, coffee, &o. yellow is- omitted; and consequently fustic, or other yellow dyeing ma- terials are not requisite, if the stem or quill is required to be stained, the feathers must remain longer in the dye-water, and a little heat may be applied. 524. For orange, moidore, Sfc.—These colours are very simple, and are produced by annattoand pearl-ash, which dye the feathers of a buff colour; they are reddened or arranged by mean of acids, as vinegar, cyder, lemon juice, tartar, and bran water. Oil of vitriol, See. are also used, and especially vinegar, beiug the most simple; green copperas is also applied as a corrective: thus annatto and turmeric are used in dyeing bright reds and scarlets, as they redden by means of the acid liquor, and, at the same time, add beauty and fulness to the co- lour. 525. Chocolate and fall rich broions.—'These are produced by archil, logwood, and sumach, boiled together, and the liquors heated at different times. The feather must be dipped as hot as it will bear, without injuring its texture. Fustic is also used when for chocolate brown, and copperas ; and, sometimes pearl-ash in the saddening. 52G. To clean black feathers.—Pour a pennyworth of bul- lock’s gall into a wash-hand bason; pour warm water on this, o