3 THE RECEIPT BOOK. common brimstone match is to be introduced and rubbed against the side of the phial, take it out instantly, cork the bottle, and if the match does not ignite instantly, rub it briskly on a smooth bit of cork. ~ N. B. The phial which should be used ought to be shallow, such a one as is generally used for holding hair oil is well adapted for the purpose. A tin case should be made that will hold the bottle, and a small piece of cork, with a vacancy for the matches. 9. Fulminating silver.—Put into a small necked bottle, resting on a little sand, one part of fine silver filings, and three parts of aquaregious (nitre-muriatic acid.) When the silver is dissolved, pour the solution into a glass, add five times the quantity of water, then take spirit of sal ammoniac and pour it into the solution drop by drop, until the silver is entirely precipitated to the bottom of the glass, decant the liquor that swims at the top, and having washed it several times in warm water, tlry it, and place it on paper capable of absorbing the moisture. If a grain of this powder, put into a tpoon (it should be an iron one) be exposed to the flame of a candle, it will explode with a loud report.—The crackers are made with this powder, a small quantity placed in a bit of pa- per with a pea and a bit of sand twisted up. 10 The art of bronzing.—Bronzing is that process by which figures of plaster of Paris, wood, &c. are made to have the appearance of copper or brass. It is as follows : Dissolve copper filings in aqua-fortis, when the cop- per has impregnated the acid, pour off the solution, and put into it some pieces of iron filings. The effect of this will be to sink the powder to the bottom of the acid. Pour off the liquor, and wash the powder in successive quan- tities of fresh water. When the powder is dry, it is to be rubbed on the figure with a soft brush or piece of lea- ther; biit observe, that previously to the application of the bronze powder, a sort of green is to be laid on the figure; and if you wish the powder to adhere stronger, mix it with gum water, lay it on like paint, or previously A a