THE RECEIPT BOOK. 11 44. A Powder which catches fire when exposed to the air. Put three ounces of rock alum, and one ounce of honey or sugar, into a new earthen dish, glazed, and which is ca- pable of standing a strong heat; keep the mixture over the fire, stirring it continually till very dry and hard: then remove it from the fire, and pound it to a coarse powder. Put this powder into a long necked bottle, leaving part of the vessel empty; and having placed it in a crucible, fill up the crucible with fire sand, and surround it with burning coals. When the bottle has been kept at red heat for about seven or eight minutes, and no more va- pour issues from it, remove it from the fire, then stop it with a piece of cork; and having suffered it to cool, pre- serve the mixture in small bottles well closed. If you unclose one of these bottles, and let fall a few f rains of this powder on a bit of paper, or any other very ry substance, it will first become blue, then brown, and ■will at last burn the paper on which it is placed. 45. Golden Ink.—Take some white gum arabic, reduce it to impalpable powder, in a brass mortar; dissolve it in strong brandy, and add a little common water to render it more liquid. Provide some gold in a shell, which must be detached, in order to reduce it to a powder. When this is done, moisten with this gummey solution, and stir the whole with a small hair brush, or your finger ; then leave it for a night, that the gold may be better dissolved. If the composition becomes dry during the night, dilute it with more gum water, in which a little saffron has been infused; but take care that the gold solution be suffici- ently liquid to flow freely from the pen. When the wri- ting is dry, polish it Avith a dry tooth. 46. Another tray.—Reduce gum ammonaic into poAvder, and dessolve it in gum arabic water, to which a little garlic juice has been added. This water Avill not dissolve the,ammoniac so as to form a transparent liquid ; for the result Avill be a milky liquor. With this liquor form your letters or ornaments on paper or vellum, with a pen or fine camel’s hairbrush; then let them dry, and afterwards breathe on them some time, till they become moist; then apply a few bits of leaf-gold to the letters, which you press doAvn gently with cotton avooI. When the Avhole is dry brush off the superfluous gold with a large camel’s hair brush, and burnish with a dry tooth