174 THE RECEIPT BOOK. being- dyed enough, and putting into the copper a little dissolved green copperas, from a table spoonful to one and a half. 569. A pretty kind of fawn broivn.—Take a quarter ol'a pound of fustic, or somewhat less from one to two ounces of madder, sumach, two or three ounces ; a little copperas and archil. But if the shade require it, more ingredients may be added ; the quantity of ingredient must also be in- creased according to the quantity of cloth to be dyed. There is scarcely a drug used in dyeing generally that may not be used in dyeing brown. You have only to put in what drugs you think proper, boiling them half an hour, then put in your goods, and boil them from one to two hours, as the shade is required. Brown may be diversified in the copper £c adinfinitum” by adding a larger quantity of the ingredient that pro- duces the desired colour. For instance, canrwood makes it redder, fustic more yellow, stomach browner, green cop- peras blacker, archil redder, logwood more of the puce. Thus a madder after being boiled strongly half an hour, produces, without any preparation, a red brown-: and with fustic, and a little sumach makes fawn and drab colours, with the addition of a little archil, which tends at all times to brighten browns. Having given a slight sketch of the colour each drug produces, I will proceed to the mixture of them. All browns are saddened, or made to incline towards black, by g-reen copperas. Lime is often used for browns. 570. To make a very bright and beautiful yelloie on fine doth.—This is done by giving it a preparation of half the quantity of the articles mentioned in the preceding receipt and, in'ten minutes, previous to your taking out the goods for rinsing, add a little muriate of tin ; put in your goods and boil them ten minutes. They must be slightly rinsed in spring water. 371. For gold colour.—Prepare as for the receipt pre- ceding the last, only adding so the weld powdered turme- ric and fustic, aceordiug to the shade required.