207 THE RECEIPT BOOK. 697. Lemon wine.—Take six large lemons, pare off the rind, cut them, and squeeze out the juice, steep the rind in the juice, and put to it a quart of brandy ; let it stand in an earthen pot, close stopt, three days, then squeeze six more, and mix two quarts of spring water, and as much sugar as will sweeten the whole; boil the water, lemons, and sugar together, letting it stand till it is cool; then add a quart of white wine, and the other lemon and brandy; mix them together, and run it through a flannel bag into some vessel; let it stand three months, then bottle it off: cork your bottles very well, and keep it in a cool place : it will be fit to drink in a month or six weeks. 698. Barley wine.—Take half a pound of French bar- ley, boil it in three waters, and save three pints of the last water, mix it with a quart of white wine, half a pint of borage water; as much clary water, a little red rose wa- ter, the juice of five or six lemons, three quarters of a -pound of fine sugar, and the thin yellow rind of a lemon ; brew all these quick together, run the liquor through a strainer, and boil it up, it is pleasant in hot weather, and very good in fevers. 699. Plumb wine.—Take twenty pounds of Malaga rai- sins, pick, rub, shred them, and put them into a tub; take four gallons of water, boil it an hour, let it stand till it is blood-warm, and put it to your raisins: let it stand nine or ten days more, stirring it twice a day. Strain out your liquor, and mix it with two quarts of damson juice, put it in a vessel, and when it has done working, stop it close ; at the end of four or five months, bottle it. 700. Palermo ivine.—Take to every quart of water a pound of Malaga raisins, rub and cut the raisins small, and put them to the water, and let them stand ten days, stirring once or twice a day; boil the water an hour be- fore it is put to the raisins, and let it stand to cool; at ten days’ end strain the liquor, put a little yeast to it; and put it in the vessel, with a sprig of dried wormwood; let it be close stopped, and at three months’ end bottle it. 701. Frontinac wine,—Take six gallons of water,