19 THE RECEIPT BOOK. If a remarkable storm of thunder and rain is to succeed, for some days before it lodges almost continually without the water, and discovers uncommon uneasiness, in violent throes, and convulsive-like motions. In the frost, as in clear summer weather, it lies at the bottom. And in snow, as in rainy weather, it pitches its dwelling upon the very mouth of the phial. What reasons may be assigned for them, I must leave philosophers to determine, though one thing is evident to every body, that it must be affected in the same way w ith that of the" mercury and spirits in the weather-glass, and has a very surprising sensation, that the change ot wea- ther, even days before, makes a visible alteration upon its manner of living. Perhaps it may not be amiss to note, lest any of the cu- rious should try the experiment, that the leech was kept in an eight ounce phial close, about three fourths filled w ith water, and covered on the mouth with a bit of linen rag. In the summer the water is changed once a week, and in the winter once a fortnight. This is a weather- glass which may be purchased at a very trifling expence, and which will last some years. 88. The following is a most excellent remedy for a cold. —Take a large tea-cup-full of linseed, two penny worth of stick-liquorice, and a quarter of a pound of sun raisins. Put these into two quarts of soft water, and let it simmer over a .slow fire till it is reduced to one; then add to it a quarter of a pound of brown sugar-candy pounded, a table-spoonful of old rum, and a table-spoonful of the best white wine vinegar, or lemon-juice. Note. The rum and vinegar are best to be added only to the quantity you are going immediately to take; for, if it is put into the whole, it is apt to grow flat. Drink half a pint at going to bed, and take a little when the cough is troublesome. This receipt generally cures the worst of colds in two or three days, and, if taken in time, may be said to bo almost an infallible remedy. It is a most balsamic cordial for the lungs, without the opening qualities which endanger fresh eolds in going out. It has been known to euro colds that