THE RECEIPT BOOK. / 197 (347 To make browning.—To make browning, a very useful culinary preparation, beat small four'ounces of fine su- gar, put it into a frying pan, with an ounce of butter, feet it over a clear fire 3 mix it well tog'ether, and when it begins to be frothy hold it higher. , When the sugar and butter are of a deep brown, pour in a little wine, and stir it together ; then add more wine, till half a pint is used. Add half an ounce ot Jamaica pepper, six cloves, four shalots, peeled, two or three blades of mace, three spoonsful of ketchup, a little salt, anti the rind of a lemon. Boil it slowly about ten mihutes, and pour it into a bason. When cold, take off the scum, and bot- tle it for use, 648 Beef gravy.—Cut a piece of the neck into small pieces, strew some flour over it, put them into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover them, an onion, a little allspice, pepper, and salt. Cover close, and sk.im it; throw in some raspings, and let it stew till the gtavy is rich and good ; strain it off, and pour into the sauceboat. . . 649 Stock for gravy soup.—Put a knuckle of veal, about a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the learn of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, .into a stewpan, with onions,,turnips, celery, two of each, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it brown. When thus prepared, it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy ; if for brown, put some of the browping, and boil it a few minutes. 650 Gravy for a fowl.—Take the neck, liver, and gizzard, boil them in half a pint of water, with a little piece of bread toasted, pepper and salt, and a bit of thyme; boil them till re- duced to one Jialf, add a glass of red wine, boil, and strain it; bruise the liver well, strain it again, and thicken with a little piece of butter rolled in flour. 651 Gravy to make mutton eat like venison.—Pick a stale woodcock, take out the bag from the entrails, cut it in pieces and simmmer it with as much unseasoned meat gravy as you require. 652 Poivrade sauce for partridges.—Rub the bottom of a stewpan with a glove of garlic ; put a small piece of butter, u 3 /