THE RECEIPT BOOK- 56 one drachm each of cardamoms,grains of paradise and gal- leng-ah; half a drachm each of nutmeg and cloves; one scruple each of saffron and cochineal; and hall a handful each of camomile flowers and Roman wormwood. Infuse the whole in two quarts of brandy, rum, or Ma- deira wine; and, after it has stood some time, pour olt what is clear, and add to the ingredients a quart more ot either liquor, but brandy is best for that purpose. This, too, having remained a longer time, and been occasiona y shaken, may be in like manner poured off for use. 1 wo tea-spoonfuls, are directed to be taken, an lioui be ore dinner, in half a glass of wine. 207. Art of making the best black ink powder.—Infuse a quarter of a pound of finely powdered nut galls in three pints of rain or river water; exposing it, occasionally, well stirred, to a moderate degree ot warmth for a lew days, till the colouring matter seems fully extracted: then filter the solution into a vessel slightly covered, and place it in the open air for several weeks; when, on removing the mouldy skiu from the top, it must be carefully col- lected, have hot water poured over it, undergo another filtration, and then be evaporated to dryness. Thus wi . be produced a grey crystalline salt, called ^e acid sail ot o-alls, and which is the essential basis of black mk. On triturating a dram of this salt with an equal quantity ot Soffron, and a pennyweight of theWj : bic, a composition will be obtained which affoids an ex- cellent black ink, on being dissolved in warm water.. 208. Dutchess of Rutlands stomach plaisterjor a Take bees-wax. Burgundy pitch, and resin, ea- ounce, melt them together m a pipkin, and stn ^ three quarters of an ounce of turpentine, aud half an ounracd oil of mace. Spread it on a piece of sheep s leather, »ra some nutmeg over the whole plaister, and app } 1 to the stomach.. 209. Easy method of restoring and renting legtM damaged Parchment Deeds, Sfc.—When a parchment deed becomes obliterated and discoloured bv ply immersing it in spring water, for about a minute.