<5 THE RECEIPT BOOK. t when mixed, produces a green. Blue tincture of violets, and brown spirits of sulphur, produce a crimson. Red tincture of roses, and brown spirits of hartshorn, make a blue. Blue tincture of violets, and blue solution of cop- per, give a violet colour. Blue tincture of cyanus and blue spirit of salammoniac coloured, make a green. Blue solu- tion of Hungarian vitriol, and brown ley of potash, make a yellow. Blue solution of Hungarian vitriol, and red tincture of roses, make black, and blue tincture of cyanus and green solution of copper produces red. 21. To soften horn.—To one pound of wood ashes, add two pounds of quick lime, put them into a quart of water, let the whole boil till reduced to one third, then dip a feather in, and if on drawdng it out, the plume should come off, it is a proof that it is boiled enough ; when it is settled filter it off, and in the liquor thus strained, put shavings of horn. Let them soak three days, and first anointing your hands with oil, work the whole into a mass and print or mould it into any shape you please. 22. To take a plaster of Paris cast from a person's face. —The person must lie on his back, and his hair be tied behind, in each nostril put a conical piece of paper, open at each end to allow of breathing. The face is to be lightly oiled over, and the plaster px-epared, it is to be poured over the face (taking particular care that the eyes are shut) till it is a quarter of an inch thick. In a few minutes, the plaster may be removed. Thus a mould is formed, from which a second cast is to be taken, that will furnish casts exactly like the original, 23. To clean oil paint mgs.—Oil paintings frequently become soiled with smoke or dirt, when they must be treated w ith great care—dissolve a small quantity of salt, in some stale urine, dip a woollen cloth in the mixture, and rub the paintings over with it, till they are clean, then wash them with a sponge and clean water, dry them gra- dually, and rub them over with a clean cloth. Should the dirt be not easily moved by the above pre- danrtion, add a small quantity of soft soap, be very careful not to rub the painting too hard.