THE RECEIPT BOOK. 151 bv the name of Indian buff. There are several ways ofdyeing it; the principal of which may be noted in the three following 'L ThCcolour is generally applied upon cotton, and silk, either woven together or seperate, The first receipt is the most ex- pensive ; nor would I recommend it, excepting for a very va- luable article, such as an Indian shawl or scarf, and then tne dyeino- materials should be first boiled ; when they have given out their colour to the water, check the boiling, and put in a pattern ; in five minutes it will be seen what colour the con- tents of the copper will afford. If such a colour as is required put in your shawl, allowing for what alteration the lime will effect in the saddening. 511. Fora common size shawl.—For a common sized silk shawl, boid, for half an hour, from one to two ounces of weltT; take this dye liquor, and put it into a pan, to which add a quarter of an ounce of alum ; when dissolved, putin the shawl for half an hour ; draw it out, and rinse it in cold water , in the meantime dissolve a quarter of an ounce of annatto, with an ounce of pearl-ash, in a teacup of water, add this solution to a small pan of warm water ; put in your shawl, and keep hand- ling it for half an hour at least; then take it out and pass it again through lime water; lastly rinse it in cold water, which finishes it. Dry in a warm room, and send it to a calen- der’s This colour will wash well if a small quantity of pearl-ash be used with the soap-liquor, and it be at last rinsed in pearl-ash and water. 512. For dyeing Indian buff.—This colour is dyed by giving the silk or cotton a ground colour of fustic, which co- lour is saddened with lime; a fresh copper is prepared with old madder liquor, into which the silk is to be dipped now and then. It must afterwards be returned into the fustic liquor, and, at last, saddened in lime water. It is somewhat singular that it is necessary that lime should be used to produce the shade of Indian buff. There are other means of procuring this shade, but those already specified are the principal. The