THE RECEIPT BOOK. 60 set the whole in a vessel all night on the hearth, or in any warm place; this will be a good yeast, and having a troth on its top next morning, in this cold climate, especially at a cold season, it should stand longer to lerment, per- haps twenty four or forty eight hours, and the quantity of peas should be larger. Experience, must determine this; the above quantity made as much bread as a half quartern loaf; the quality of which was very good and light. 218. Patent potatoe composition to be used instead of veast.—To make a gallon of this composition, boil eight pounds of potatoes as for eating: bruise them smooth ; and mix with them, while warm, two ounces of honey, or any other sweet, and a quart of yeast. For making bread, mix three pints of the above composition, with a bushel ot flour, using: warm water in making the bread, t he wa- ter to be warmer in winter than in summer, and the com- position to be used in a few hours alter it is made: and, as soon as the sponge, or the mixture of the composition with the flour, begins to fall the first time, the brea should be made, and put in the oven. 219. The true Dafy's elixir.—Take five ounces of anni- seeds, three ounces of fennel-seeds, four ounces of parsley- seeds, six ounces of liquorice, five ounces ol senna, on ounce of rhubarb, three ounces of elecampane root, seven ounces of jalap, twenty-one drams of saffron, six ounces of manna, two pounds of raisins, a quarter ot an ounce of cochineal, and two gallons of brandy. Stone the raisins, slice the roots, and bruise the jalap. Mix the A\hole o gether; and, after letting them stand close covered for fifteen days, strain out the elixir. n So favourite a remedy has Daffy's elixir been, for a chollicy pains, during the last hundred years, that many families have been enriched by its preparation and sale, a few of whom have used not half the ingredients above enumerated. The cheap stuff, commonly used as Daff} s elixir, is little more than an infusion ol aniseeds, liquorice, ZA jalap, in the coarsest, and most fiery malt spirit, low- ered with common water.