135 THE RECEIPT BOOK. on woollens, the best quantity of madder is one half the weight of the woollens that are to be dyed: the best pro- portion of salts to be used is five parts of alum, and one of red tartar, for sixteen parts of the stuff. A variation in the proportions of the salts, alters the colour that the madder gives. If the alum is lessened, and the tartar increased, the dye proves a red cinnamon. If the alum be omitted, the red disappears, and a durable tawny cinnamon is produced. If woollens are coiled in weak pearl-ash and water, the greatest part of the colour is destroyed. A solution of soap discharges part of the colour, and leaves the remain- ing more beautiful. Volatile alkalies heighten the red colour of the madder, but they make the dye fugitive. 466. Remarks on logwood dye.—Volatile alkaline salts or acids incline this to purple ; the vegetable acids render it pale; the vitriolic and marine acids deepen it. 467. Lime water.—Lime water in dyeing brown or or black, is found to be a good corrosive, as also an alter- ative, when the goods are not come to the shade required ; but practice alone can shew its utility; it answers for either woollens, silks, or cottons. 468. To make chemic blue and green.'—Chemic for light blues and greens, on silk, cotton, or woollen, and for cleaning and whitening cottons, is made by this process : Take one pound of the best oil of vitriol, which pour upon one ounce of the best Spanish flora indigo pounded and sifted; add to this, after it has been well stirred, a small lump of pearl-ash as big as a pea, or from that to the size of two peas, this will raise a fermentation, and cause the indigo to dissolve in minuter and finer particles than otherwise. As soon as this fermentation ceases, put it into a bottle tightly corked, and it may be used the next day. If more than the quantity of pearl-ash should be used, it will deaden and sully the colour. Chemic for green, as above for blue, is made by adding one fourth more of the oil of vitriol,. M a