131 THE RECEIPT BOOK. your soft brush} strike your coat over with it, and this will brighten the colour if either blue, black, or green. 457. For sulphuring ivool, silks, straw bonnets, See.— Put into a chaffing dish some lighted charcoal; put this chaffiing dish into a small close room, without a chimney, or into a closet or large box; then pound an ounce or two of brimstone, and strew it on the hot coals. Hang up the articles you would have bleached, make your door fast, and let them hang three hours, or all night, if you have time. This is what is called dry bleaching woollens: all fine coloured wroollens should be sulphured in this way previously to their being dyed. Straw bonnets are like- wise bleached in the same manner. 458. Remarks on scouring woollens.—It often happens that woollens are dyed with a false dye, which is gene- rally more brilliant than a fast or good dye When this happens to be the case, especially in very fine colours as purple, greens, maroons, &c. instead of spotting the clothes with soap in the solid state, other means must be used. A thin solution of soap should be made, and the brush dipped in and then applied to the dirty places; and in case it is a false green, after it has been treated the same as all light colours, a pan should be filled half full of spring water, and the coat, &c. having been previously well rinsed in tw'o waters at least, a tea spoonful or rather more of the best oil of vitriol should be poured into this vessel of spring water, and the coat put in and handled a minute or two, wrhich will revive the colours, if a chemie green; and if not, it will not hurt any fast greeiv 459. For scouring grey, drab colours, fawns, maroons, and all other coloured woollens, such as ladies' pelisses, mantles, coats,'8cc.—Supposing the garment to be a coat, take some of the best yellow soap, ana cutting it into thin slices, pour upon it a sufficient quantity of water, just to moisten it. Then roll it into a ball, and rub all the greasy and dirty spots of the coat with it. Let it dry a little, and then taking warm water, dip your brush in it, and stroke off the soap: if not quite clean, proceed as before,