138 THE RECEIPT BOOK. ounces cf the best crop madder; mix the pear-ash and mad- der together, and boil them in three fourths of the water of the vat, for a quarter of an hour. This liquor must re- main in the copper, and the fire be damped ; previously to this the indigo must be cleaned and pounded in a mor- tar, with hot water, with about half a pound of pearl-ash. When this has stood to settle, the clear is to be poured into the vat. Proceed as before with a like quantity ol pearl- ash, and a third time if required. Then pour grounds and all into the vat. A pound of bran, well cleared Irom the flour should be put in the bottom of the vat, and the solution of indigo poured upon it; the vat must then be stirred, observing no heat must be applied to it till it comes to a hand heat, when a little heat must be added to keep this degree of heat up, It is continued in this state until it turns green ; when this appears stir it, and a scum will rise on the top of the vat; this should be blown off; and if it again forms, the vat is come to work, and a pattern maybe dipped in ; if it striked, make a fresh liquor with a pound of pearl-ash, and two-ounces of madder , pour this in, rake it well, in three hours itwill be fit for use. 475. To make an alum tub.—It is here proper to enume- jate the colours necessary to be aluined; which are, all yellows, and reds, and shades from these colours, as cin- namons, maroons, bright reds, yellows, gold colours, &c. Small dyers have a tub in which three pounds of alum is dissolved and in this way, a tea kettle of boiling water is poured on the alum after the alum has been beaten small. When this is dissolved it is to be poured into a tub of cold water, about fifteen gallons. This tub must be made nar- row at the bottom, and gradually wider toward the top, so that, when garments are put into it they may be easm opened, and spread out to receive the alum regularly. A few sticks are to be put across the top of this tub and a pin, bent as a fish hook is to be tied to a piece of string and let down under the surface of the alum liquor, then fastened round these sticks, if a garment is wanted to be put into this preparation liquor, it is to be raised up and down two or three times in order to wet well. 1 hen the widest end is hooked on the pins, and the other end is et