THE RECEIPT BOOK. 13 51. A liquor to remove spots, Sfc.—Dissolve two ounces of pearlash in a quart of spring- water, to which add two lemons cut into small pieces; mix this well, and keep it in a warm state two days, by placing it near the fire, strain it olF, and keep it in a bottle for use. To use it, pour a little upon the part, and when it disappears, wash the part in cold water. This is a useful article to re- move pitch, grease, See. 52. Nankeen dye.—Boil equal parts of arnatto and pot-ash in water till the whole are dissolved. This will produce the pale reddish buff, so much in use, and sold under the name of nankeen dye. 53. To dye silk a fair blue.—Take white silk, and soak it in wrater, then having wrung the water out, add eight ounces of woad, four ounces of indigo, and one ounce of allum ; then warm and dissolve them in the water.: after which, dip your materials till the colour has taken. 54. To stain leather gloves.—Those pleasing hues of yellow, brown, or tan colour, are readily imparted to leather gloves, by this simple process: Steep saffron in boiling-hot soft water for twelve hours, then having sewea up the tops of the gloves, to prevent the dye from staining the insides, wet them over with a sponge, dip- ped into the liquid. The quantity of saffron, as well as of water, depends on how much dye may be wanted, and their relative proportions on the depth of colour required. A common tea-cup will contain sufficient in quantity for a single pair of gloves. 55. To make spruce beer.—This cheap and wholesome liquor is thus made: take of water sixteen gallons, and boil the half of it; put the -water thus boiled, to the re- served cold part, which should be previously put into a barrel, or other vessel; then add sixteen pounds of trea- cle or molasses, with a few table spoonsful of the essence of spruce, stirring the wffiole together ; add half a pint of yeast; keep it in a temperate situation, with thebunghole open, for two days, till fermentation subsides ; close it up, or bottle it off, and it will be #t to drink in a few days. B