132 THE RECEIPT BOOK. and use your water a little hotter ; rince at least three times, in two or three buckets or pans of wrater ; the first of these should be blood warm, or even hotter. Hang’ to dry, as before directed. 400. For scouring black, blue, anFdark brown woollens, such as broad and narrow cloths, gentlemens' coats, ladies' pelisses, fyc.—Supposing the article to be cleaned is a man’s coat, first dry about two ounces of fullers’ earth by the fire, then pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water on it to dissolve it to the consistence of treacle; take a suffici- ent quantity of this on the top of your three fingers, and plaster thinly over such spots of grease as may be on the coat, particularly those on the cuffs, collar, the pocket- holes, and under the arms, &c. This done, if you have time, dry it by the fire, or in the sun: prepare a penny- worth of bullock’s gall, and mix with it half a pint of stale urine; add to this, if required, a little boiling water, to make the quantity of alkaline liquor sufficient for your purpose, such as chamber lye, pot-ash liquor, or bullocks’ gall. You must take care not to weaken this too much with wTater; but instead of it, add as much as you like of the chamber lye. Dip your hard brush in this liquor, and brushing the spotted places in your coat, you will find it to produce a white froth, like soap lather. After this you must mind and dip the coat in a bucket of cold water, spring water is the best, to wash off the filth and bad smell. Then take a walkiug stick, and put through the two arm-holes, aud putting a string round the middle of the stick, hang the coat to dry. When it is nearly dry, take your brush and lay the nap the right way of the cloth, an^l when quite dry, pour a small drop ot oil of olives in your hand, and pass it over the brush,with which strike your coat ; and, if too much oil is not used, it will give it the appearance of new. 461. For scouring party-coloured woollen, as carpets, hearth-rugs, fyc.—It is customary with the scouring trade iu this metropolis, to have a large scouring board ; the narrowest part of the carpet is first pulled on the table, and, accordiug to the colours that are in the carpet, either gall or soap must be used, and sometimes both. Carpets