THE RECEIPT BOOK. 130 454. To raise the nap on cloth.—When woollens are wore thread bare, as is the ease in the elbows, sleeves, cuffs, &c. of men’s coats, the coat. See. must be soaked in cold water'for half an hour, then taken out of the water, and put on a board, and the thread-bare parts of the cloth rubbed with a half-worn hatters’ card, filled with flocks, until a sufficient nap is raised. When this is done, hang your coat, &c. up to dry, and with a hard brush lay the nap the rig-ht way. This is the method which is pursued by the dealers in old clothes. 455. To revive the faded colour of black cloth.—If a coat, clean it well, as described in scouring blues, blacks, browns, &c. then boil from two to four ounces of logwood in your copper or boiler for half an hour; dip your coat in warm water, and squeeze it dry, and put it into a copper and boil half an hour. Take it out and add a piece of green copperas about the size of a horse bean ; boil it another had! hour, ihen drhw it, and hang it in the air for an hour or two; take it down, rinse it in two or three cold waters, dry it, and let it be well brushed with a soft brush, over which a drop or two of oil of olives has been rubbed : stroke your coat regularly over. If any part of the coat, Sec. should be worn thread-bare, the nap must be raised with a prickly thistle. Sec. and the coat will look as new. Some dyers use old black liquor instead of logwood and copperas. 356. To dry-clean clothes of any colour.—First, examin- ing where the spots of grease are, dip your brush in warm gall, and strike over the greasy places, when the grease will disappear; rinse it off in cold water; dry by the fire, then take sand, such as is bought at the oil shops, and laying your coat flat on the table, strew this sand over it, aud knocking your brush on it, beat the sand into the cloth; then brush it out with a hard brush, and it will bring out all the filth with it. This does also for coach linings, and gentlemen’s clothes, Sec. In the summer time, when the dust gets into clothes, &c. after they have been well shaken and brushed again, pour a drop or two ot the oil of olives into the palm of your hand, rub this over