THE RECEIPT BOOK. 120 receiving- the dye, or appearing clear; wheraas the solu- tion if made as'described for quilts. See. will extract all impurities, and do it evenly. It often happens in coloured cottons, where greens, reds, &c. are used, that the colour will run; in such ca'esome acid, as lemon-juice, vinegar, oil of vitriol, or any other, should be infused in the rinsing waters to preserve the colours, especially in Scotch plaids. 452. The method of dipping scarlet cloth.—The mode of dipping scarlet cloth, after it has been cleaned with soap, and rinsed in warm water, is as follows: When the spring water in your copper (or boiler, or tin kettle, or whatever your convenience may be) boils, put in a quarter of a pound of young fustic, and a drachm of pounded and sifted cochineal, and an equal quantity of cream of tartar and cochineal; then, when these have boiled five or six minutes, cool down your copper by adding a pint or two of cold spring water, and a table spoonful of the solution of tin ; then stir the mixture, put in your cloth, and boil it for ten minutes; when dry, send it to be cold pressed. 453. A cheaper method.—But not so good as the fore- goingjWhich I never knew to fail, is as follows: heat your copper to a hand heat, add two ounces of the best crop madder, and a like quantity of turmeric, if required ; but for a deep red, turmeric must be omitted. When these have simmered ten minutes, then put in your goods, and simmer them ten minutes, or longer, if required. The Irish dyers, instead of the solution of tin, use a few drops of the oil of vitriol, so as to make the liquor taste tart; handle the goods through this for two or three minutes, then take them out, rinse them in cold spring water, and hang them up to- dry. Care must be taken, when the madder is used for reds, not to let the water boil, as this drug, as well as the carthamus, affords two colours, the one red, the other brown; madder, on being* boiled, gives out the brown.—This method will not answer for fire-coloured scarlet, but w7ill do for bright coloured reds, when the colour requires to be saddened.