THE RECEIPT BOOK. 149 to-finish it, take it from the dye water, and when cold, rinse it in cold water, then pin it out. 504. To dye a shawl crimson.—Take about a table spoon- ful of cudbear : put. it into a small pan, pour boiling water upon it, stir and let it stand a few minutes, then put in your silk, and turn it over a short time, and when the colour is full enough, take it out; but i ti tshould require more violet or crimson, add a spoonful or two of purple archil to some warm water, and dry it within doors. lo finish it, it must be man- gled or calendered, and may be pressed, if such a convenience is at baud. , 505. Lilacs.—Lilac may be said to be a shade of crimson, as crimson is of a purple : these are only the two same colours mixed with purples in greater or lesser quantity. In the pur- ple the blue predominates ; in the violet or lilac, the red and blue are nearly alike ; but in the crimson the red is sure to prevail. 506. To make half violet or lilac.—For every pound of silk, take one pound and a half of archil, mix it well with the liquor; make it boil a quarter of an an hour, dip the silk quickly, then let it cool, and wash it in river water, and you have a fine half violet, or lilac, more or less full. 507. Different ways of dyeing peach blossom.—Clean your silks well, and rinse them in warm water, to extract the- soap that may remain, then slightly alum them ; next pass them through purple archil in warm warter, and this will be of the colour of red violet, the silks should then be taken out, and a sufficient quantity of solution of tin added, which will immediately turn this liquor from a violet to a bright red. Some dyers, for a silk spencer, &c. pour a quarter of a pint of archil, or less, into a small pan, and dissolve a sufficient quantity of alum, and a little tartar, which they and to this archil dye, to give it that shade of the peach blossom which may be required. Your silk havingbeen washed in soap and water, and rinsed in warm water, is to be dipped in this liquor till it receives the shade intended. Others do it by preparing the liquor as N 3