102 THE RECEIPT BOOK. put it into a pan with hot water ; put in your goods; dissolve two drams of verdigris in a tea cup full of warm water, which put into a pan of cold water ; take your gown from the dye, and run it through the verdigris water, well handling it for ten minutes; take it out, and wash it in clean water, then through the dye liquor, and again in the verdigris water, and so con- tinue this process till you obtain the colour required, only taking care to wash it out of the verdigris water before you put it into the dye liquor : dry it in the shade. 539. For yellow cotton.—To make a lemon yellow, first wash your article well in soap and water, then rinse it in warm water. Por every yard of stout cotton, dissolve a piece of blue vitriol as large a horse bean, in boiling water; and, when the water is at an hand heat, put the cotton in, and handle it well for half an hour. In the interim, take a quarter of a pound of weld for every yard of cotton, and boil it well for half an hour; dip the liquor out in a pan, and handle your cotton through this till it comes to the fulness required ; take it out to cool, aud when cold, wash it out, and dry it in the air. 540. For a full yellow.—Wash your goods well in soap and water, and rinse in warm water; then dissolve from a quarter to half an ounce of alum in a pan of boiling water ; when at a hand heat, put in your goods, and let them remain for two hours, handling them now and then : boil a sufficient quantity of weld, and dip the liquor out in a pan ; take your goods from the alum water, and put them into the dye, and handle them well for one hour, or till they are come to the shade required : wash and dry in the air. 541. For a gold colour.— The articles must be washed, as above, with soap and water, and you may use, or not use, a small quantity of sugar of lead with your alum; after preparing, boil with weld, to every yard of cotton, a quarter of an ounce of turmeric ; dip your liquor into your pan, and handle your goods as directed; wash and dry in the air. 542. For an orange colour.—The process in this is the same as above, only, instead of turmeric, put in the same quan-