164 THE RECEIPT BOOK. liquor from the copper into a -pan ; put in your shawl, and handle it for twenty minutes, or longer. If it require to be fuller coloured, dip out of your Brazil tub half a pint or less of fermented Brazil liquor, and add to your madder liquor in the pan. When dyed enough, take it out, rinse it in cold spring water, and hang to dry. 547. A plum-coloured cotton.—The article for this must be boiled in purple archil, and passed through the vat to the shade required ; then through archil; and when cold, rinsed in cold water. If this should be too blue, it maybe rectified by passing it, to the colour required, through warm water, in which a drop or two of oil of vitriol has been added: some- times, as for reds, sumach is first given. If for very light blues, put into a pan half full of warm water, a sufficiency of the liquor of the vat, and the cotton may be dipped here into colour. 548. False purple, plum colour, Sfc. on cotton.—This is done by passing the goods through strong alum liquor for two ' hours; then put into your copper a quarter of a pound of logwood ; boil them half an hour ; cool down your copper, put in your article, and simmer it for half an hour ; then add pearl- ash, which will sadden it to the depth of colour required. All gradations of shades may be made this way, from the violet, the pansy, &c. to the darkest purple. 549. Another method—Put archil and pearl-ash in your copper, and this, kept at a hand-heat, dyes nearly the same colour. N. B. No blues, purples, plums, 8tc. are half so fine as those dyed in a vat. 550. Brown cottons.—Wash your cottons well in soap and water, then rinse them in warm water ; pass them at a hand heat, through sumach in a pan for an hour; take them out and rinse, and pass through alum water for twenty minutes. In the meanwhile boil brazilletto in your copper for half an hour ; cool it down, put in your goods, and keep the liquor at a hand-heat till it has taken the desired redness ; then take out the goods and handle them through a pan of warm water,.