THE RECEIPT BOOK. 147 tfissolve a piece of alum as big as a horse-bean in warm water, and let your shawl remain in this half an hour ; take it out ana rinse in cold water. In the interim boil a quarter of an ounce of the best cochineal for twenty minutes, then dip it. out ol your copper into a pan, and let your shawl remain m this from twenty minutes to half an hour, which will make it a lull blood red. Then take out your shawl, and add to your liquor in the pan a quart more of that out of your copper, if you have as much remaining, and about half a small wine glass full ot the solution of tin, or more if you require your colour to be of the scarlet. But observe that too much solution impoverishes the colour ; when cold, rinse it slightly out in spring water. 499. Another scarlet, called, false scarlet.—Clean your shawl as discribed in the last recipe ; then dissolve from a quarter of an ounce to half an ouuce of aunatto in warm water : handle your shawl through this twenty minutes, take out and rinse in cold water. In the interim dissolve a quarter of an ounce in hot water : when this alum-liquor is at a hand-heat, put in your shawl for twenty miuutes ; take out and rinse cleau in cold water. In the meanwhile boil a quarter of a pound of ground Brazil wood for half an hour ; pour this dye liquor into a pan, and handle your shawl through it for half an hour; then take it out, and add half a wine glass full of the solution of tin ; put in your shawl and handle it ten minutes louger. It must be rinsed slightly in its own liquor, and dried in a warm room. Some use turmeric instead of annatto ; and many do not use any alum, but only a solution of tin. Then after it has a weak liquor of Brazil, and is strongly impregnated with solution of tin, a second and stronger liquor of Brazil is prepared at a hand-heat. The shawl is next immersed in this strong Brazil liquor for twenty minutes ; and lastly, more solution of tin is added. In this way the colour is more bright, but less hold- ing. 500. Maroon silk.—This must be first well cleaned, then •trong annatto is to be put in hot water ; then washed out; then alumed, and washed out: then two galls are bruised, and boil- ing water poured on them. The silk is run through this liquor also. It must theu be slightly rinsed through Brazil