THE RECEIPT ROOK. 160 Joes not taste sour, or until the acid is entirely saturated, or neutralized, Take o( this neutralized liquor enough to dye what goods you require, and put it into a tub of water, about blood warm, and by dipping a small pieceof cotton into it, you inay judge the depth of the colour. To dye with this Chemic Fat, for so it is called, first wet out your goods in warm water, then immerse them in the dye water, and handle them to the shade required. Blue when dyed this way should be dried in a warm room; if book muslins, they must be pinned out: if cotton furniture it must be made stiff with starch or flour, and afterwards be glazed, sleeked, mangled, or calendered. 533. Remarks on this dye.—If the acid of the vitriol is n >t overcome by the pearl or pot-ash, the goods worked in this dye will be rotten ; the liquor should rather have a salt than an acid taste, and then you will be sure of its working well ; but the nearer you can bring it to neutralization ihe better will be the effect. 534. To dye a puce colour on cotton.— Boil the cotton in archil to a full violet, then handle it quickly through your blue vat; it must then be taken from the vat, rinsed, and passed through weak sumach water, and saddened iu cop- peras. 535. For a red puce.—Soak your gown, &c. in hot water, with half a pound of sumach, all night: Take it out next morning, and rinse it in cold water; then pour half a pailful of boiling water on a pound of purple archil, handle your goods through this for half an hour. If it be too blue for the shade required, dissolve about a quarter of an ounce of alum in water, run your goods through this to the shade required. If it should now be too red, have a pan with warm water, in which a small bit of pearl-ash has been dissolved, and it will blue it again to colour. 530. For slate-coloured cotton.—First wash your cotton clean in soap and water, rinse in warm water ; then put a half pound of sumach in a sieve, and pour boiling water over it, let it drain into a pan ; put in your article, and let it steep