146 THE RECEIPT ROOK. your silk from the dye, and run it through this vitriol liquor, and then back again through the dye liquor, until you have the shade required.—Rinse it in two or three waters. 49G Another yellow, bordering on a gold colour.—This is the same as the first recipe given for yellow silks ; only when you lake out your weld, add a small quantity of pow- dered turmeric, stirring it well in the copper tor ten minutes , this will give it a gold cast: when the article is dyed, it should be slightly rinsed, and dried in doors.—Some give it the tur- meric, first, then rinse it in cold water, and alum it, then give it the weld. 497. A most beautiful bright, though a false yellow.—For a silk spencer, put in a pan, of convenient size, Irom one to two ounces of the best turmeric root in coarse powdei, and an equal quantity of pearl-ash. or the best yellow soap ; pour on this a sufficient quantity 'of boiling river water, to make it of the consistence of treacle, or just as much as will dissolve it thoroughly. In the interim, have a pan full of hot water, in which pour your solution of turmeric and soap ; handle it over in this dye liquor for half an hour, till it has taken a full orange or nasturtium colour, when it must, be slightly rinsed m cold water add to this water a sufficient of oil ot vitriol, enough to <r\xe your liquor a slight acidulous taste ; stir it well; 1 un your silk quickly through this acidulous water, and so continue to do till the colour is of one uniform shade; .that is, of a beauti- ful bright yellow.—Dry it in a warm room. 498 For dyeing silks red of all shades, crimsons, Sfc. of a permanent colour.—For a scarlet silk shawl ; first dissolve twro ounces of white soap in boiling water, handle your shawl through this liquor, now and then rubbing such places with vour hands as may appear dirty, till it is as clean as this water will make it. A second, or even a third liquor may be used, if required ; the shawl must be rinsed out in warm water. Then take half an ounce of the best Spanish annatto, and dissolve it in hot water; pour this solution into a pan ot warm water and handle your shawl through this for a quarter of an hour, ’take it out and rinse it in clean water. In the meanwhile