THE RECEIPT BOOK. 166 dry so black- as you wish, leave your'liquor in the copper, and add a little more copperas and chipped logwood, and boil it again for an hour, handling it well all the time; ifitshould not appear to have body enough, add an ounce or two of sumach and a little more copperas ; should thegown when dry have toomuch purple, put a small quantity of alder bark, and simmer again for an hour, and add a small quantity of copperas, if necessary. Observe, more copperas may be added ; but if once the dye is poisoned with using toomuch copperas, not only the texture of the cotton will be injured, but the woods will not give their colour, and a good black can never be made. 553. To dye linen, cotton, and thread, hlaek, after the French method—First steep them in galls or sumach six hours ; then alum then strongly, dip them in a weld-liquor, and make a strong decoction of logwood in your copper, to which add a quarter of a pound of blue vitriol for every pound weight of the substances to be dyed. Your goods must be well washed in cold water, but not yvrung hard. They must he afterwards dyed in madder, using half a pound of this dye for every pound weight of goods to be dyed. The articles must then be dipped in a boiling soap-liquor, handled ten minutes, and dried in the air. Cotton velvets are dyed as plain cottons are, and silk velvets as plain silks ; both are finished by being pinned out, and then well brushed backwards and forwards before or near a fire, or in a warm room. Crapes are finished by being passed through a little gum, or red leather cuttings ; size them well, beat them between the hands, and let them be pinned out as on a frame. 554. To finish cottons and silk velvets.—This is done by brushing them when almostdry, near a fire; and if pinned out on a table, (for want of a frame), rub them with a hard brush to and from you, till the rnjoor plush is raised upright, and every hair appears to stand in its place. Velvets are seldom stiffened ; when they are, a small portion of gum or isinglass must be dissolved in water, and lightly rubbed on the wrong side of the velvets, with a sponge wrung almost dry.