THE RECEIPT BOOK. 220 IN . B. This process may be conducted in one copper by making the decoction of logwood first; many dyers do it in this manner. 74f). Another Grey.—Which, being taken from one I had given me, I cannot answer for; the expence, however, of trying the experiment, will not be two-pence.—For one pound weight of cloth, take three ounces of alum, and five ounces of -fenugreek seed, and boil them with the goods an hour; then take the liquor, kc. off, and add seven ounces of pearl-ash, and three ounces and a half of Brazil; boil them gently with the goods half an hour; rinse them out and it is said, that the colour will be very fine. 747. To dye a grey green on prince's cord, or corderoy. —Boil for one hour, half a pound of chipped fustic and a quarter of a pound of sumach ; in the interim, pour some boiling water on two ounces of sumach ; strain the liquor, and put your goods in it for half au hour, then take them out, and slightly rinse in cold water ; after this, dissolve an ounce of alum in hot water ; when at a hand heat, put in your goods for twenty minufres, take them out again and cool down your cop- per with cold water : slightly rinse your goods from the alum liquor, and put them into the copper, (after first taking out the bag containing the sumach and fustic.) The goods must,sim- mer in this liquor for twenty minutes; take them out once more from the copper, and they will be of a yellow brown colour.; slightly rinse them in cold water, and add to the liquor in the copper a table-spoonful of chemic and a small lump of copperas something less then a quarter of an ounce; suffer this to boil ten minutes, then cool down your copper, put in your goods, and boil from ten to fifteen minutes ; wash them in cold water, and dry in a warm room. The quantities here specified will serve for two pair of breeches. 748. Crimson.—Pour boiling water on a sufficient quantity of purple archil, handle your silks through this for hplfan hour ; then take them out and add such a quantity of oil of vitriol to your archil as shall be sufficient to make them of the desired shade. Some use solution of tin instead of oil of vitriol, and this makes a pretty bright red.