THE RECEIPT BOOK. 179 salts enter at the same time, it follows that the colour is not only hoi cling- but regular, The same thing- happens with black and other shades from this colour. ON FAST AND FUGITIVE COLOURS, AND ON SALTS OR MORDANTS FOR PREPARATION. 580. The cause why some colours are more holding than others.—Browns and blues or shades from them, require no preparation, but reds and yellowrs, either of silk, cotton or woollen, require a preparation to make them receive the dye, and hold is fast when it has received it. Alum and tartar, form a mastic within the pores of the substance that retains the dye, and reflect the colour in a manner transparently. The dyeing materials contain in them- selves a sufficient degi-ee of astringent quality to retain their own colours. A very fast red is also made with Bra- zil wood, by boiling the woollen in alum and tartar, ac- cording so the receipt laid down in this treatise, and suf- fering the cloth to remain several days in a. bag kept moist with the preparation liquor. The cause of the so- lidity of the colour from Brazil wood, dyed after this me- thod, arises from the alum and tartar masticating* itself within the pores of the wood in quite a solid state. Then such parts as can be again dissolved by being put into the boiling dye instantly seize the colouring substance, and the pure dye water being- of a more soluble quality, and of a finer nature than the gross particles of alum and tartar, the stain of the dye penetrates through the masti- cated alum and tartar, and, of course, becomes holding and transparent. There is not a drug used in the whole art of dyeing, but may be made a permanent dye, by finding out a salt, or solution of some metal, that," when once dissolved by acids, or by boiling water, will neither be affected by the air nor be dissolved by moisture. Such are alum and tartar, the solutiou of tin. See. But these salts and solutions do not answer with all ingredients that are used in dyeing This proves that the dyeino* art is by no means brought to perfection, yellow is also one