THE RECEIPT BOOK. 72 trate of strontian, thirteen parts of finely powdered sul- phur, five parts of chlorate of potash, and tour parts of sulpliuret of antimony. The chlorate of potash, and sul- phuret of antimony, should be powdered separately in a mortar, and then mixed together on paper, after which they may be added to the other ingredients, previously powdered and mixed. 261. Green Fire.—Green fire has long been a desidera- tum in pyrotechny, and when burned in a reflector, sheds a beautiful green light upon all surrounding objects. Take of flowers of sulphur thirteen parts, of nitrate of baryta seventy seven, of oxymuriate of potassa five, of metallic arsenic two, of charcoal three. The nitrate of baryta should be well dried and powdered : it should then be mixed with the other ingredients, all finely pulverised, and the whole triturated until perfectly blended together. A little calamine may be occasionally added, in order to make the compound slower of combustion; and it is above all things requisite that the rubbing together of the materials should be continued until they are mixed. 262 Best method of making hartshon jelly.—Boil a quar- ter of’ a pound of hartshorn shavings, in three pints of water, till on taking a little of it out to cool, it hangs on the spoon as a jelly. Then take it off, strain it while hot into a saucepan, with half a pint of old hock, and a quar- ter of a pound of powdered loaf sugar, and beating up the whites of two or three eggs to a froth, put it into the iellv; stir the whole and pour it a little from one vessel to another, that it may the more perfectly unite. Let it now boil two or three minutes, and then put in the juice of one large lemon, and, boiling it up a minute or two longer, when it will be finely curd ed, and of a pure white colour, place a good swanskin jelly bag over a pan or bason, and run it through three or four times till Koksasckaras crystal Put a c now beneath the bag ; and having clean leUv glares readv half fill them from the bason as the jelly once more i’uus through ; then throw some dun o and a little Seville orange-peel into the bason, and,v 1 n the iellv has all passed through, fill up the rest of Snsieif and the felly will look of a ine.embercolonr. This is the best method, when required to p