THE RECEIPT BOOK. 217 737. Red or white elder wine.—Gather the elder-berries ripe and dry, pick them, and bruise them with your hands, and strain them ; set the liquor by in glazed earthen vessels for twelve hours to settle ; put to every pint of juice a pint and a half of water, arid to every gallon of this liquor three pounds of Lisbon sugar ; set it in a kettle over the fire, and when it is ready to boil, clarify it with the whites of four or five eggs; let it boil an hour, and when it is almost cold, work it with strong ale-yeast, and run it, filling up the vessels from time to time with the same liquor, saved on purpose, as it sinks by working. In a month’s time, if the vessel holds about eight gallons, it will be fine and fit to bottle, and, after bottling, ..will be fit to drink in twelve months: but if the ves- sel be larger, it must stand longer in proportion, three or four months at least for a hogshead.—Note. All liquors must be fin:id before they are bottled, or else they will grow sharp, and ferment in the bottles. .. Add to every gallon of this liquor a pint of strong moun- tain wine, but not such as has the borachio, or hog’s skin fla- vour. This wine will be very strong and pleasant. 738. Sage wine.—Boil twenty-six-quarts of spring water a quarter of an hour, and when it is blood-warm put twenty-six pounds of Malaga raisins, picked rubbed, and shred into it, with almost hall-a-bushel of sage, shred, and a porringer of ale-yeast; stir all well together, and let it stand in a tub, co- vered warm, six or seven days, stirring it every day, then strain it off, and put it into a runlet ; let it work three or four days, then stop it up ; when it has stood six or seven days, put in a-quart or two of Malaga sack, and, when it is fine bottle it. 739. Gooseberry toine.—Gather your gooseberries in a .dry season, when they are half ripe, pick them, and bruise them in a tub with a v/ooden mallet, for no metal is proper ; take about the quantity of a peck of the gooseberriesput them into a cloth made of horse-hair, and press them as much as possible, without breaking the seeds : repeat this till all your gooseberries are brmsed, adding to this pressed juice the other in the tub ; add to every, gallon, three pounds of powder- ed sugar, stir it together till all the sugar is dissolved, and then T