145 the receipt book. peras as big as a pea ; or sadden it with peari-ash, winch js preferable. This recipe does for a spencer, or two yards ot silk ; but, according to the colour required, you may add to or diminish the ingredients. 493. Another drab, inclining to a grey, called a dove co- lour.—-Is made by using more archil. When your copper boils, put in a quarter ot au ounce of sumach, ooil it ten mi- nutes, then add cheniic blue and archil, according to the shade required ; when your liquor is of the colour you wish, which may be seen by lifting it up, cool down your copper, put in your silks, and boil then to colour.—Some dyers use Brazil, logwood, sumach, and green copperas, 494. The french, way of dyeing yellow silk.—First alum your silks, half au hour, in cold alum liquor, then wash them. Pass them through a pan of weld liquor, at a hand heat, It they are to be of a lemon yellow, dissolve a trifling quantity of blue vitriol in your pan to the colour required. If orange co- lour is wanting, first dye the silk buff, with annattoor turme- ric, but annatto is the best; then let it be washed in cold water, and alumed afterwards for twelve hours : run through the weld liquor to the colour required. 495 Yellow bordering somewhat on the blue cast, or lemon, —Put your silk in warm water to soak ; in the meanwhile pour a pail of boiling water on a piece of blue vitriol, about the size of a marble : when this vitriol liquor comes to a hand-heat take the silk out of the warm water, squeezing it gently, and immersing it all at once in this vitriol liquor, and keep hand- ling it over for half an hour at least, which will tinge the silk of a blue cast, though hardly perceptible ; then take it out, and squeezing it gently, put it in a bag, or damp cloth, and let it remain a day or two. But if it should have what you may think too much of the blue cast, you may rinse it in luke- warm water for a minute, gently squeeze it, aud put it on a plate. In the interim, boil, for half an hour, about a pound and half of weld ; pour this dye liquor into a pan, aud when at a hand-heat, put in your silk, and keep handling it well. If you should require it to be more on the green blue, you may difsolve a small piece of blue vitriol in warm water, take out