THE RECEIPT BOOK. 70 add too much ; an experiment or two will readily show the quantity necessary to effect the purpose. 251. To detect copper in pickles or green tea.—Put a few leaves of the tea, or some of the pickles cut small, into a phial,with two or three drachms of liquid ammonia diluted with one half the quantity of water. Shake the phial; when if the most minute portion of copper be present, the liquid will assume a fine blue colour. 252. To discover ifhreadis adulterated with alum.— The bread must be soaked in water, and the water in which it has been soaked, a little of any test for sulphuric acid must be added. (Solution of muriate of lime will do.) Upon which, if any alum be present, the liquid will be pervaded with milkiness; but, if the bread be pure, the liquid will remain limpid. 253. To prepare parchment for painting.—Take about a yard and half of list, and roll it up very tight in a circular "form ; then take some finely powdered white pumice stone put the list in it, and rub it over the parchment. This plan, which is simple and very common, answers the best of any If you wish it to take water colours without sinking, choose that which is not spongy and soft, and use alum water with the colours when you mix them for use. 254. To wash chintz, so as to preserve its gloss and beauty.— Take two pounds of rice and boil it in two gallons of water, till soft; when done, pour the whole into a tub ; let it stand till about the warmth you in general use for coloured linens then put the chintz in, and use the rice instead of soap; wash it in this, till the dirt appears to be out; then boil the same quantity as above, but strain the rice from the water, and mix it in warm water. Wash it in this till quite clean; afterwards rinse it in the water the rice was boiled in, and this will answer the end of starch, and no dew will affect it as it will be stiff while it is worn. If a gown, it must be taken to pieces, and when dried, hang it as smooth as pos- sible ; after dry, rub it with a sleek stone but use no iron. 255. To cause a stone to be in perpetual motion.—Put small filings of iron into aquafortis, let them remain there until the water takes off the iron requisite, which it will