THE RECEIPT BOOK. 22b ia your mince-meat, a spoonful of white wine, and a little salt, and give it a gentle boil. Beat up the yolk of an egg ; two spoonsful of cream, and a little grated nutmeg. Put in the mince and shake it over the fire till quite hot, but do not let it boil. Put sippets into the dish, pour it over the whole, and garnish with lemon sliced. 7G8. Veal.—Let the pot boil, and have a good fire, when you put in your meat. A knuckle of veal will take more boil- ing in proportion to its weight than any other joint, because the beauty is to have all the gristles soft and teuder. You may send up boiled veal with either parsley and butter, or with bacon and greens. 7G9. Calf's head.—Pick your head clean, and soak it in a pan of water some time before it is put in the pot. Tie the brains up in a rag, and put them in with the head. When enough, grill it before the fire, and serve it up with melted butter, bacon, aud greens, and with the brains chopped and beat up with a little salt, pepper, vinegar, or lemon, sage, and parsley, and the tongue slit and laid in a separate plate. 770. Lamb's head.—Wash it well, and lay it in warm wa- ter, boil the heart, lights, and part of the liver; Chop, and flour them, put them into some gravy, w ith ketchup, pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and a spoonful of cream. Boil the head white, lay it in a dish and the mincemeat round it. Place the other part of the liver fried with bits of bacon on the mince- meat. add the brains fried in small cakes round the rim, with crisped parsley between- Pour melted butter on the head and garnish with lemon. 771. Leg of lamb.—A leg of lamb, if boiled as it ought to be, in plenty of water, may be dished up white as milk. Send it to table with stewed spinach ; and melted butter in a boat. / . 772. Neats tongue.—A dried tongue should be soaked all night, put it into cold water, and letithave room ; it will take four hours, A green tongue out of the pickle need not be soaked, but it will require the same time. An hour before you