THE RECEIPT BOOK. 71 do-in seven or eight hours. Then take the water and put it into a phial an inch wide, with a large mouth, and put in a stone of lapis calaminaries, and stop it close ; the stone will then keep in perpetual motion. . 250. To gild the edges of writing paper, or leaves of books.—Screw a quantity of pages strong'ly into a press after being cut as smooth as possible. Size them with isinglass glue, mixedup with spirits of wine, and then apply the gold leaves when the size arrives at a proper degree of thickness. 257. To silver the backs of looking glasses.—Take a sheet of tin foil, and spread it upon a table, then rub mercury upon it with a hare’s foot till the two metals incorporate. Lay the plate of glass upon it, and load it with weights, which will have the effect of pressing out the excess of mercury, that was applied to the tin foil. In a few hours the tin "foil will adhere to the glass and convert it into a mirror. About two ounces of mercury are sufficient for covering three feet of square g-lass. 258. Method of rendering glass less brittle.—Let the gdass vessel be put into a vessel of cold water, and let this wa- ter be heated boiling hot, and then allowed to cool slowly by itself, without taking out the glass. Glasses treated in this way may, while cold, be suddenly tilled with hot water, without any risk of their cracking. If the glasses are to be exposed to a higher temperature than that of boiling water, boil them in oil. 259. New dye.—A chemist of Copenhagen has disco- vered a means of producing a lively yellow colour for dying cloth. He gathers the tops of the potatoes when ready to flower, presses the juice, mixes it with water, and suffers the cloth to remain it twenty four hours. He then dips it in spring water. The cloth may be either of wool, silk, cotton or flax. By plunging "the cloth thus tinged with yellow, into a vessel of blue, a brilliant and lasting green is obtained. 260 Redfire of the Theatres.—The beautiful red fire, which is now so frequently used in the theatres, is com- posed of the following ingredients : forty parts of dry ni-