THE RECEIPT BOOK. 06 flammatory and putrid disorders. Its effects are to cool the blood, quench thirst, counteract a tendency to putre- faction, and allay inordinate motions of the system. It likewise promotes the natural secretions, and, in some cases, excites a sweat, while the warm medicines, called alexipharmic, tend to prevent that salutary evacuation. Weakness, faintings, vomitings, and other hysteric affections, are often relieved by vinegar applied to the mouth and nose, or received into the stomach. It is of excellent use in correcting poisonous substances, when taken into the stomach; and in promoting their expulsion, by the different enmnetories, when received in the blood. Vinegar is not only an useful medicine, but serves to extract the virtues of several other medicinal substances. Most of the odoriferous flowers impart to it their fra- grance, together with a beautiful purplish or red colour. It alse assists or coincides writh the intention of squills, garlic, gum ammoniac, and several other valuable medi- cines. The effects are not to be expected from every thing that is sold render the name of vinegar, but from such as is sound and well prepared. The best vinegars are those prepared from French w ines. It is necessary, for some purposes, that the vinegar be distilled ; but as this operation requires a particular che- mical apparatus, we shall not insert it. 349. Vinegar of litharge.—Take of litharge, half a pound ; strong vinegar, two pints. Infuse them together in a moderate heat for three days, frequently shaking the vessel; then filter the liquor for use. This medicine is little used, from a notion of its being dangerous. There is reason to believe that the prepara- tions of lead with vinegar are possessed of some valuable properties, and that they may be used in many cases with safety and success. A "preparation, of a similar nature with the above, has of late been extolled by Goulard, a French surgeon, as a safe medicine, which he calls the Extract of Saturn, and orders it to be made in the following manner :—-Take ot litharge, one pound ; vinegar made of French wine, two pints. Put them together into a glazed earthen pipkin,