153 THE RECEIPT BOOK. and boil half an hour, taking care not to spoil the liquor with too much copperas. If the silks should be wanted ot a blue black, a little more logwood and a small lump of blue vitriol should be added ; and the silk may remain in the copper all night, if the copper is not wanted. Next morning, wasu and dry. *" . N. B. You may add a little more fustic, or rather less log- wood, as this recipe specifies. Should the silks appear rustv, or what is known to the dyers by the name of copper burnt, or foxy, it is customery to pass them through warm water into which about half a tea-spoonful or less of oil of vitriol has been thrown; this will leave the silk, of a beautiful raven black. If the silk is a soft and thick one you may make a thin soap lather,and pass it through; but this must not be done when it as been passed through vitriol. And if care he taken to boil the silk in this process, without any of these alteratives, it will be a most beautiful black, and wear a long while. The oftener the silks are taken out and cooled, the blacker they become. Observe, bullock’s gall and hot water are preferred ; but the silk must be cooled from the dye-liquors before it is rinsed in g'all water, that the dye may be consolidated. 516 For dyeing silk stockings black.—These are dyed like other silks, excepting that they must be steeped a day or two in bark liquor, before they are put into the black silk dye. At first they will look like an iron grey ; but to finish and black them, they must be put on wooden legs, laid on a table, and rubbed with your oily rubber, or flannel, upon which is oil of olives, and then the more they are rubbed the better. Each pair of stockings will require half a table spoonful of oil at least, and half an hour’s rubbing, to finish them well. Sweet oil is the best in this process, as it leaves no disagreea- ble smell. 517 For dyeing straio and chip bonnets.—Chip hats being composed of the shavings of wood, are stained black in various ways. First by being boiled in strong logwood liquor three or four hours ; they must be often taken out to cool in the air and now and then a small quantity of green copperas must be added to the liquor, and this continued for several hours.