THE RECEIPT BOOK. 103 / greenish hue, and to the white parts, various tints of yel- fow. After applying- this stain to cherry and apple wood, if the wood slightly reddened with a tincture of some red dye whose colour is not liable to fade, a handsome dye is thus given, which becomes more beautiful as the wood grows darker by age. 366. Mode of imitating seed pearls.—Cut silver lace in pieces of various lengths ; put them into a crucible, with pounded charcoal, one stratum above another; give it a heat sufficient to melt the silver, which will be found on cooling, fused into grains, resembling pearls. 807. Chinese paints.-—The peculiar beauty of Chinese drawings is owing, not to the nature of the colouring substances, but to their being mixed with glue or size, instead of gum water, as fs the practise in Europe. In regard to the preparation, two things must be observed ^ first, that the beauty depends, in a great measure, upon the fineness of its particles, the finest being the most beau- tiful. A Chinese painter, employs a man for three or four days to grind a small quantity of vermilion in a porcelain morter, and it is from this they derive their fine reds. Se- condly, it must be considered, that most mineral colours are prepared with acids, alkalies, or other salts, and that a small superabundance of those saline substances remains with them, which, after a shorter or longer time produces considerable alteration in their brilliancy, and often entire- ly changes their colour. To obviate this inconvenience, the paint, after having been livigated, must be repeatedly washed in clean water ; distilled water is the fittest. To effect this properly, put half an ounce of the paint in a half-pint glass phial, and fill the rest of the phial nearly full of water ^ shake it well, then let it stand lor a while, and the coloured powder will soon fall to the bottom; pour off the water, by inclining the phial, so as not to disturb the sediment, and fill it again with clean water, and so on for five or six times \ after which the colour being gently dried, must be ground a little longer, when it is fit for use. The glue or or size to be mixed with the paints is extrac- ted from parchment as follows Take about four ounces