THE RECEIPT BOOK. 156 animal substances, are more alike in nature than any other two bodies, either animial or vegetable. You must remem- ber that in dyeing silks the water is used hot, for most colours : but feathers must be always dyed in cold liquors, except for black, the dyeing materials being first boiled, and then let to cool; your feathers must then be put in, and when this liquor is exhausted add a fresh one, pouring off the old liquor. For dyeing feathers black, the same liquor as for silks mus-t also be used, but with this difference, that for the feathers, the dye- ing materials must be boiled for two hours, and then Used as warm as the feather will bpar, heating the liquor four or five times. It often happens that a feather is four or five days dye. ing black ; but violets, pansies, carnations, light purples, light blues, &c. are dyed in ten minutes. Light blues are dyed in chemic blue : the. greys, in galls and green copperas ; the violets in warm archil and water; the greens with ebony wood, in warm water and chemic blue. These are to be finished by being gently beaten out over the hand, and this will dry them : just before they are dry it is requisite to curl them, which is done with a round edged knife. 521. The finest blue, on feathers.—Is however obtained by means of the silk blue vat. The feathers should be well cleaned in soap and water, then rinsed in water. By these means the feathers will be suffici- ently soft; next boil as much water as will serve to dye it, to which add (for one feather) half a teacup full of purple archil; simmer the feather twenty minutes, until it is of the full vio- let colour, then take it out of this dye, and immerse it in the vat. According to the shade required so deep must be the shade of the violet; a full violet, by remaining in the vat long enough, will dye a full blue. There are various other ways of dyeing blue on feathers ; for instance : clean the feathers as described in the preceding' receipt, «and when your water boils, throw in a teaspoonful of tartar, and as much chemic blue as will dye the desired shade of blue. Cool down the copper by means of cold water, and put in the feathers, and keep the water much below a hand heat, and you will have a blue of the brightest dye, more or less full, but of the false dye.