THE RECEIPT BOOK. 200 four days, in the same manner as directed for British Madeira. When poured off clear into a sweet cask, add five pounds of the best raisins, bruised and stoned: stir up the liquor once or twice a day; and after standing' slight- ly bunged two days, add about a gallon of French bran- dy; bung the cask, and in three months bottle it for use. 705. British Champaigne.—Take of white sugar, eight {jounds; the whitest raw sugar seven ditto ; christallised emon acid or tartaric-acid, an ounce and a quarter; pure water, eight gallons; white grape wine, two quarts; of perry four quarts; of French brandy, three pints. Boil the sugars in the water, skimming it often for tAvo hours, then pour it into a tub, and dissolve in it the acid. Before it is cold, add some yeast, and ferment in the same manr ner as directed for British Madeira. Put it into a clean cask, and add the other ingredients. The cask is to be well bunged, and kept in a cool place for tAvo or three months; bottle it, and keep it cool for a month longer, when it will be fit for use. It it should not be perfectly clear after standing in the cask two or three months, it should be rendered so by the use of isinglass before it be bottled. By adding a pound of fresh or preserved strawberries, and tAvo ounces of powdered cochineal, to the aboA e quan- tity, the pink Champagine may be made. 706. Clary Wine.—Take tAventy-four pounds of Mal- aga raisins, pick them and chop them very small, put them into a tub, add to each pound a quart of water; let them steep ten or eleven days, stirring it twice every day ; it must be kept covered close all the while; then strain it off, and put it into a vessel, and about half-a-peck of the tops of clary Avhen in blossom; stop it close for six weeks, and then bottle it off; in tAvo or three months it is fit to drink. It is apt to have a great settlement at bottom; therefore it is best to draAV it off by plugs, or tap it high. 707. Saragossa Wine, or English Sack. To every quart of water put a sprig of rue, and to every gallon a hand- ful of fennel root: boil them half-an-hour, strain it off. and to every gallon of liquor put three pounds of honey; boil it two hours; and skim it Avell; when it is cold, pour