THE RECEIPT BOOK. 203 ing, and roll it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit, and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity of vine- gar, and a teaspoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it im- proves the look and flavour. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, currant jelly, and melted butter. 680. Mutton, venison fashion.—Take a hind quarter of mutton, cut the leg like an haunch, lay it in a pan, with the backside of it down, pour a bottle of red wine over it, and let it lay twenty four hours ; spit it, and baste it with the same liquor and butter when roasting. Ifrahould have a good quick fire. Have a little good gravy in a boat and currant jelly in another. 681. Chine of mutton.—Remove the skin near the rump without taking it quite off, or breaking it. Take lean ham, truffles, morels, spring onions, parsley, thyme, and sweet herbs chopped small, with spice^ pepper, and salt. \ Strew them over the mutton, where the skin is taken off; put the skin over it neatly, and tie over it some white paper, well but- tered." When it is nearly done, take off the paper, strew it over the grated bread, and when of afiue brown, take it up. Serve with good plain gravy, potatoes, brocoli, French beans, or cauliflowers. 681 A breast of mutton ivith the forcemeat,—Raise the skin and put the forcemeat under it, and fasten it down ; before you dredge it, wash it over with beaten eggs. Garnish with lemon, and put some gravy in the dish. The forcemeat may be the same as in the preceding receipt. 683. A tongue or udder.—Parboil the tongue before you put it down to roast, stick a few cloves about it, bast'e it with butter, and send it up with some gravy and sweet sauce. An udder eats very well done the same way. 684. Lamb—Lay it down to a good fire that will want little stirring, baste it with butter, and dust on a little flour; a little before you take it up, baste it again with butter, and sprinkle on a little salt, and parsley shred fine. Send it to table with a salad, mint sauce, green peas, French bean*, or cauliflowers.