THE RECEIPT BOOK. 175 572. For orange colour.—The same process is to be used as specified in the last receipt, only .with the addition of annatto, which must be dissolved, with nearly its weight of pearl-ash, made into a perfect solution, and otherwise fur- nished as the preceding receipt for a full yellow. If a permanent orange colour be wanted, instead of an- natto a small quantity of best crop madder and fustic must be added to the weld; and these three drugs, viz. weld fustic, and madder must be worked well together, with the same preparation as for common yellow, only do not let them boil in the alum and tartar quite so long as for a full bodied yellow: practice alone can make you a judge of what quantity of madder to use. Weld produces a fine yellow, Fustiean orange yellow, Madder a fire red. These three colours being used in due proportion, pro- duce orange colour of the brightest dye. I am thus particu- lar, in order that you may vary the shades to your fancy. The proportions of alum and tartar .also will vary the sim- ple colour of yellows. Please to recollect that your garment - should receive the yellow of tjie weld and fustic before the madder is used, except you take care not to boil the madder, for, whenever madder is boiled it turns brown, and conse- quently will not afford that clear red, which is so necessary for an orange. Stuffs dyed with chromate of lead have their colours im- mediately, and completely destroyed by the subacetate of soda, and by the muriatic acid when cold. 573. For cleaning and restoring blues, purples, and shades from them, such as mazarine, prin ce's garter, royal and navy blues.—These should be cleaned by dissolving hard white soap, as before described, adding to it a small quantity of the best American pearl ash ; and if the colours are faded almost to a red, this will restore them. You must add more or less pearl ash as the colour may require. Wash the silk in this liquor, as you would a linen garment, then instead of wringing, gently squeeze, and sheet them. When dry, finish them with fine gum water, or isinglass, dissolved by