THE RECEIPT HOOK. G5 240. Ink for print'iug on linen with types.—Dissolve one drachm of asphaltum, in four drachms of oil of tui pen- tine, then add lamp black or black lead, in fine powder in sufficient quantity to render the ink of a proper con- sistence for printing- with types. 241. Cure for smoky chimneys—Inflate a large ox blad- der with air, and tie it by the neck to the middle of a stick, which place across the inside of the chimney, about two feet from the top, or at the foot of the chimney-pot. The buoyancy of the air keeps the bladder continually in a circular motion, and thereby prevents the rush of air into the tunnel from descending- so low as the fire place. 242. Modelling.—The eleg-ant and cheap chimney orna- ments, manufactured by oriental seamen (mostly) here in London are formed of rice flour, cast into moulds, or Shaped with tools while plastic. An eleg-ant cement may also be made from rice flour, which is at present used for that purpose in China and Japan. Mix the flour with cold water, and g-ently sim- mer over the fire; when it readily forms a delicate and durable cement, not only answering- all the purposes of common paste, but is admirably adapted for joining- to- g-ether paper, card, &c. in forming- the various beau- tiful and taseful ornaments which afford so much employ- ment and amusement to the ladies. When made of the consistence of plastic clay, models, busts, basso-relievos, &c. may be formed; and the arti- cles, when dry, are susceptible of a high polish and are very durable. 243. Eau de Luce.—Is a kind of liquid volatile soap, of a strong pungent smell, and is repared as follows :— Ten or twelve g-rains of white soap are dissolved in four ounces of rectified spirits of wine, after which the solu- tion is strained; a drachm of rectified oil of amber is then added, and the whole filtred. With this solution mix, in a crystal glass bottle, such a proportion of the strong- est volatile spirits of sal-ammoniac as will, when suffi- ciently shaken produce a beautiful milk-white liquid. If a kind of cream should settle on the surface, add a small quantity of the solution of soap. Those who may wish to have this liquor perfumed may employ lavender or hungary instead of spirits of wine. F 3