192 THE RECEIPT BOOK. 927. Asparagus soup.—Cut half a pound oi fat bacon into thin slices, put them in a stewpan, add five or six pounds of lean beef cut in lumps, and rolled in flour; co- ver your pah close, stirring' it till the gravy is drawn: and two quarts of water, and half a pint of ale. Let it stew gently for an hour, with some whole pepper, and salt; skim off the fat, and strain off the liquor; put in the leaves of white beet, some spinach, cabbage lettuce, a little mint, sorrel, and sweet marjoram powdered; boil these in the liquor, put in the green tops of asparagus cut small, and boil them till tender. Serve it up hot, with a r rench roll in the middle. 028. Soup Lorraine.—Blanch a pound of almonds, and beat them fine in a mortar, wltu a little water to keep them from oiling. Take the white part of a roasted fowl and the yolks of four poached eggs, and pound all toge- ther very fine, pour three quarts ot strong m ' ea §T<TV3I in a stewpan, with the other ingredients; boil ^em ov®r J slow fire, and mince the white part of another fowl fine. Season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a li beaten mace. Melt butter about the size oi an egg, tujh a spoonful of the soup strained. Cut two trench r into thin slices, and set them before the fire to cnsp, the hollow crust of a third French roll, and fill it with the minced fowl, close the roll neatly, and keep it hot. S rain the soup into a saucepan, and let itstew til of the thick ness of cream. Put the crisped bread into the tureen, pour the soup over it, and place the closed roll in th centre. 629. White pottage, with a chicken in the middle.—'To an old fowl, put a knuckle of veal, a scrag of mutton, som xoice some sweet herbs, and onions; boil all together, have ready some barley boiled very white strained through a cullender, with some bread ready toasted in a dish, an a fowl in the middle; green 1 vour breld naeh and sorrel; pour some of the broth to }oi » herbs and chicken; add barley well strained, and stew a together.