THE RECEIPT BOOK. 44 174. Admirable wash for the hair, said to thicken its growth better than bear's grease.—Take two ounces each of rosemary, maidenhair, southernwood, myrtle-berries, and hazle-bark, and burn them to ashes on a clean hearth, or in an oven : with these ashes make a strong- ley, with which wash the hair at the roots every day, and keep it cut short; this wash, destroys the worm at the root, and proves far more effectual than bear’s grease or pomatum, which rather feed than destroy that unsuspected enemy to the human hair. 175. Genuine Turlington's balsam.—This is a good vul- nerary balsam for common uses; and may be safely taken internally, where the genuine Friar’s 'balsom is not at hand : the receipt for making the true Turlington’s bal- sam, is as follows—take an ounce of the Peruvian balsam, two ounces of the best liquid storax; three ounces of the best gum benjamin, impregnated with almonds; and half an ounce each of the aloes, myrrh, frankincense, angelica roots, and the flowers of St. John’s wort. Beat all these ingredients in a mortar, and put them into a glass bottle; adding- a pint and a quarter of spirits of wine. Let the bottle stand by the kitchen fire, or in the chimney corner, two days and nights; then decant it off, in small bottles well coi-ked and sealed, to be kept ready for use. The same quantity of spirits of wine poured on the ingredients, well shaken up, and placed near the fire, about six or eight days and nights, will serve for slight occasions, on being bottled in a similar manner. 176. Cephalic snuff.—Take half an ounce each of rose- mary, sage, lilies of the valley, and the tops of sweet mar- joram, with a drachm each of asarabacca root, lavender flowers and nutmeg. Reduce the whole to a fine powder, and take it like common snuff, as often as may be neces- sary for the relief of the head, &c. : there are many more powerful snuifs, for medicinal purposes, but few so use- ful, agreeable, and innocent, to be used at pleasure. 177. The art of making Brillau's incomparable liquid for changing the colour of the hair.—1This is said to be the best liquid in the world for making the hair curl, as well as for'