41 THE RECEIPT BOOK. the whole well tog-ether. These things being in readiness, place over a frame or support, the stone on which the co- lours were ground, with a charcoal fire to warm it. This being’ done, grind the colour fine with a muller, on the warm stone; after which, adding a sufficient quantity of poppy oil and spermaceti, work the whole together with a muller to the proper consistence. Lastly, taking a piece of the fit size for the cake intended to be made, roll it into a ball, put it into a mould and press it, and the process is completed. These cakes, on being wanted for use, must be rubbed dow n in poppy or other oil, or in a mixture of spirits of turpentine and oil, as may suit the convenience or intention of the artist. 166. Infallible remedy for the ague.—Mix a quarter of an ounce each of finely powdered Peruvian bark, grains of paradise, and long pepper, in a quarter of a pound of treacle; of which mixture, take a third part as soon as the cold fit commences, washing it down with half a quartern of the best brandy. As the cold fit goes off, and the fever approaches, take a third part, writh the like quantity of brandy; and, on the following morning, fasting, swallow the remainder, and the same quantity of brandy as before. This excellent electuary, which is said never to* fail, cured an afflicted person, after being tormented for the greater part of four years, having almost every fit accompanied by delirium, during which period innumerable other re- medies had been tried in vain. The person from whom it was obtained, declared that he had cured hundreds of persons, and never met with but a single instance where the three doses did not immediately effect a cure, and even then a second three prevailed. To children under nine years old, half the above quantities must be given. 167. Bailey's patent cakes for liquid blacking.—This blacking has been the source of an ample fortune to the patentee, the celebrated Mr. Bailey, of Cockspur Street, Charing-cross, whose exclusive right has lately expired. It is made, according to the specification in the patent office with one part of the gummous juice which issues from the shrub called goat’s thorn, during the months of June, July and August; four parts of river water, two parts of neat's-