10 THE RECEIPT BOOK. yellowish fume: this, when caught in a dry receiver, is Glauber's spirits of nitre; probobly the prepartion, under that name, may be obtained at the chemist’s, which will of course save time and troble. You then put a drachm of distilled oil of cloves, tur- pentine, or carraways in a glass vessel; and if you add an equal quantity, or rather more, of the above spirit, though both are in themselves perfectly cold, yet in mix- ing them together, a great flame will arise and destroy them both, leaving only a little resinous matter at the bottom. 40. To make a ring suspend by a thread, after the thread has been been burned.—Soak a piece of thread in urine, or common salt and water. Tie it to a ring, not larger than a wedding ring. When you apply the flame of a candle to it, it will burn to ashes, but yet sustain the ring. 41. To change blue to white.—Dissolve copper filings in a phial of volatile alkali, when the phial is unstopped, the liquor will be blue; when stopped, it will be white. 43. Iron transformed into copper.—Dissolve blue vitrol in water, till the water is well impregnated with it; and immerse into the solution small plates of iron, or coarse iron filings. These will be attacked and dissolved by the acid of the vitriol, while the copper naturally contain- ed in the vitriol will be sunk and deposited in the place of the iron dissolved. If the piece of iron be too large for dissolving, it will be so completely covered with par- ticles of copper as to resemble that metal itself. 43. To so dll a glass with water that it cannot be removed without spilling the whole.—This is a mere trick; but may afford some amusement. You offer to bet any person that you will fill a glass with water that he shall not move it off the table without spilling the whole contents. You then fill the glass, and laying a piece of paper or tmn card over the top, you dexterously turn the glass upside down on the table, and then drawing away the paper, you leave the water in the glass, with its mot upwards. It will therefore be impossible to remove the glass irom the table without spilling every drop.