THE RECEIPT BOOK. 726 the same way, but not brushed. If the silks are for dying instead ot passing them through a solution of soap and water, they must be boiled off; but if the silks are stout the water must only be of heat sufficient to extract the filth. Being then rinsed in warm water, they are in a pro- per state for receiving the dye. 442. Another method for cleaning white satins.—French chalk must be strewed over them, and then brushed off with a hard brush. Should the satin not be cleansed by the first dusting, it may be done a second time, and it will both clean and beautify the satin. The more it is brushed the better. 443. To clean orange colour on silk, cotton, and woollen. —If it is a silk garment, it must be cleaned with a solu- tion of soap, and in the second liquor pearl-ash must be used to stay the colour. The water must be used much under a hand heat for silks. If requiring more to scarlet or redder, the pearl-ash must be omitted, and a little vi- negar used in the rinsing water. See the mode of clean- ing of coloured woollens in the following pages, recollect- ing that acids heighten the red colour, and alkalies make it more upon the buff. 444. Of cleaning black silk.—If this is a slip, unpick the seams, take one piece at a time, and put it on a table, then take a penny worth of bullock’s gall, and boiling water sufficient to make it pretty warm, dip a sponge in the gall licpior, and, washing your sponge in warm water after dipping it into the liquor, rub the silk on both sides squeeze it well out, and proceed as before. Then hang up this piece of silk, and clean the others in the like man- ner. When the whole are done, immerse them altogether in a pan of spring- water, to wash off the dirt which the gall has brought upon the surface of the silk: change your rinsing waters till they are clean, and after washing, dry your silks in the air, and pin them out on a table,' &c. first dipping a sponge in glue water, and rubbing it on the wrong side of the silk. Dry it near the fire, and it will be as new.