191 THE RECEIPT BOOK. 623. A cheap soupTake the water that has boiled a leg of mutton, put it into a stewpan with a quantity of chopped leeks, pepper and salt; simmer them an hour, then mix some oatmeal quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and simmer it gently, take care that it does not burn. 624. Gihlet soup.—rScald and clean three sets of giblets, stew them with a pound or two of gravy beef, scrag ot mutton, or the bone of ajknuckle of veal; add three onions, a lar^e bunch of sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of white pep- per, and a large one of salt. Put five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards are quite tender, skim it well, and add'a quarter of a pint of cream, two teaspoonsful of mush- room powder, and an ounce of butter mixed with a de- sert spoonful of flour. Boil it a few minutes. Season with two glasses of Sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. Add salt it requisite. 625. Soup Creset/.—Stew twelve large carrots, cut, in a stewprn wdth turnips, celery, leeks, and onions, cut in pieces, and half pint of split peas, in a quart of water till tender, with some strong beef gravy; rub the whole through a tamis, add five pints of strong veal gravy, and some blanched watercresses, boil the whole tor twenty minutes, and season it with salt; let it be the thickness of pea-soup, and serve it up. 626. Transparent soup.—Cut off the meat from a leg of veal as thin as possible : when cut clean from the bone, break the bone in small pieces, put the meat in a large jar, with the bones at top, a bunch of sweet herbs, a quar- ter of an ounce of mace, half a pound of Jordan almonds, blanched and beat fine ; pour on it four quarts of boiling water: let it stand over a slow fire all night: remove it into a well tinned saucepan, and let it simmer till it is ro- dueed to twro quarts, taking off the scum as it rises ; strain it into a bowl, let it stand for two hours to settle; pour it into a saucepan clear from the sediments; have ready two ounces of boiled vermicelli; put it in, and serve it up.