51 THE RECEIPT BOOK. sugar, pour it with the drainings of the sieve hot on the kernels of the apricots; which must be put, with the stones into the pan where it is intended the wine should be left to cool. Stir it well together, cover it up till it grows cool, and then work it with a toast and yeast. In two or three days, when it is found to be settled, fine it oft into a cask, leaving it to ferment. After it has done working, pour in a bottle of old hock, or sherry* and stop it up for -six months; then, if fine, bottle it off", and keep it twelve months. This is a most delicious wine; and when well managed,little inferior to the best productions of the grape. 192. Pill for an aching hollow tooth.—Take half a grain each of opium and yellow sub-sulphate of quicksilver, for- merly called turpeth mineral; make them into a pill, and place it in the hollow of the tooth some hours before bed time, with a small piece of wax over the top, when it is said never to fail effecting a complete cure. 193. Liquorice cough lozenges, as made in France.—Put into an earthen vessel a quart of river water, with a pound of fresh liquorice scraped and cut into very small pieces, two pinches of French or pearl barley, and four apples; make the whole boil over a slow fire for four or five hours, till all is thoroughly done, and the liquor reduced to a pint or less : ana then, mixing it together as much as pos- sible, pass it forcibly through a sieve. Into the vessel which receives this mixture, put a pound of clarified syrup, and two ounces of dissolved gum tragacanth; mix and dry up the composition over the fire, stirring it con- tinually with a wooden spoon till it no longer sticks to the fingers, and then empty it on a slab, rubbed over with a little oil. When it is cold, cut it into lozenges, and place them to dry in a Warm situation. They may be taken at pleasure, aud are very efficacious-in curing a catarrh, as well as relieving the violence of obstinate coughs. This is all that can be expected from liquorice ancl the simple gums; which are sufficient for almost any recent eough, when timely and plentifully taken. 194. Excellent embrocation for the whooping cough„—All the dreadful consequences of the chin or whooping cough,