THE RECEIPT BOOK. 43 be observed, that this is only recommended for a quinsy. It affords good professional authority, for the preferable use of such vapourous inhalements over common gargles and other medicines, in dangerous complaints of the throat, lung-s, &c. 171. A fine balsamic elixir for confirmed coughs and con- sumptions.-—Take a pint of old rum, two ounces ol bal- sam of Tolu, an ounce and a half of Strasburg turpentine, an ounce of powdered extract of Catechu, formerly called Japan earth, and half an ounce each of gum guaiacuiu ana balsam of copaiva. Mix them together in a bottle, and keep it near the fire, closely corked, for ten days, frequently shaking it during that time. Afterwards let it stand two days to settle, and pour off the clear for use. Half a pint of rum may then be poured over the dregs ; and, being treated for twelve days in the same manner as the first will produce more elixir: the dose may be from fifty to a hundred, or even two hundred drops, according to the urgency of the case, taken twice or thrice a day in a wine glass of water. 172. German cure foi a consumption.—Take a pound of pure honey, and let it boil gently in a stewpan; then having washed, scraped clean, and finely grated with a sharp greater, two large sticks of fresh horse-radish, stir into the honey as much as you can. It must remain in a boiling state five minutes, but stirred so as not to burn; after which, put it into small earthen pots, covered up for use; two or three table spoonsful a day, according to the strength of the patient, is said to perform wonders, even where there is a confirmed phthisis pulmonalis, or con- sumption of the lungs. It is also serviceable in all coughs where the lungs are greatly affected. 173. Pleasant emulsion for a cough, cold, or hoarseness. ■—Mix half a pint of hyssop water, half an ounce of oil of almonds, two ounces oi‘ powdered loaf sugar, and a tea- spoonful of hartshorn : take a table-spoonful every night and morning. If there be any soreness of the throat or breast, add two tea-spoonsful of" Friar’s balsam, or of Tur- lington’s balsam or drops.