154 THE RECEIPT BOOK. The saucepan or kettle that that they are dyed in may remain with the bonnets in it all night; the next morning they must be taken out and dried in the air, and brushed with a soft brush. Lastly a sponge is dipped in oil and squeezed almost to dry- ness; with this the bonnets are rubbed all over, both inside and out, and then sent to the blockers to be blocked. Others boil them in logwood and instead of green copperas, nse steel filings steeped in vinegar ; after which they are finish- ed as above. 518. For dyeing straw bonnets brown.—Take a suffici- ent quantity of Brazil wood, sumach, bark, madder, and cop- peras, and sadden according to shade required. See also the Cotton Dye for Browns. 519. For dyeing straw bonnets black.—Wash the bonnet in a little warm chamberlye and water, rinse it in cold water, and take for one bonnet about a quarter of a pound each, alder bark, and logwood. Boil the bonnet in this liquor one or two hours ; then take it out, and add a small piece of blue vitriol, as big as a small tick bean; enter the bonnet and boil for half an hour longer ; then take it out, cool it in the air, and add two ounces of fustic chips ; boil these half an honr then put in the bonnet again, and put in, at the same time, a piece of green coppears, as big as a small bean ; boil again for one hour ; take the bonnet out and cool it in the air; and, if the liquor remaining in the boiler or copper be of a jet black, you may put in the bonnet, and let it remain all night : but if the liquor be not quite black, add a handful more of bark, and a little logwood and green copperas. The next morning take out your bonnets and dry them in the air ; when dry brush them with a soft brush, and afterwards rub them with an oily cloth, (called by the trade an oily rubber ;) lastly, send them to the blocker’s to be blocked, If this recipe be attended to, the bonnet will be a most beautiful raven black. It is cus- tomary with some hat dyers to steep them in oak saw-dust, one night previous to ibeir being dyed, which is a good method and generally esteemed ; more copperas may be used than is here specified : it may be used iu the copper before the article is dyed.