200 THE RECEIPT BOOK, Forcemeat is a principal ingredient in cookery, and imparts an agreeable flavour in whatever dish it is used The articles principally in request for this purpose are, fowl, veal, the in- side of sirloin of beef, ham, bacon, suet, bread, parsley, and eggs. To vary the taste of these ingredients, may be added penny royal,savory, tarragon, knotted marjoram, thyme, basil, garlick, shalot, olives, oysters, anchovy, salt, Jamaica pepper, cloves, and nutmeg. In making forcemeat, observe that no one article should predominate ; but if various dishes are served on the same day, the varied taste of the forcemeat should be attended to. 066. Force-meat for soup maigre,—Pound the flesh of a lobster, an anchovy, the yolk of anhard boiled egg, with black and whi,te pepper, salt, mace, some bread crumbs, a little but- ter, and two eggs well beaten in a mortar; make them into balls, or roll them long, and fry them brown. Add them to your soup when ready to serve up. 667. White sauce for carp, Sfc.—Put an onion, a few sha- lots,and three anchovies, into half a pint of cream. Boil them together, then put in two ounces of butter, the yolks bf two eggs, and a little white wine vinegar, stir it continually while over the fire to prevent curling. 668. Lobster sauce.—-Cut a lobster into pieces the size of a dice, pound the spawn, a bit of butter, and four anchovies, in a mortair, and rub them through a hairsieve, put the cut lobster into a stewpan with half a pint of gravy, and a bit of butter rolled in flour, set it over a stove, and keep stirring it till it boils, if not thick enough, add a little flour and water, and boil itagain, put the spawn in and simmer it, if the spawn boils it is apt to spoil the colour of the sauce; put a little lemon pickle and corach, and squeeze in half a lemon. 669.Shrimp sauce,—'Pick your shrimps, and put them in- to a stewpan, with a ltttle gravy, when hot, pour in melted but- ter, and some anchov) essence, add a little lemon pickle and corach. 670. Oyster snuce,—Blanch and strain the oysters, beard them, put them into a stewpan with a piece of fresh butter,