THE RECEIPT BOOK. 7 G 273. Compound colours are madeby mixing1 the colours mentioned in the foregoing paragraph, in certain propor- tions. The following may be particularized : To make red colour, mix three parts of rose-pink, with one of ver- milion. A finer red ; Four parts of rose-pink, two parts of vermilion, and one part of droplake; for very fine work use droplake alone, but use it sparingly, for” it is a dear article. Yellow. Two parts of Dutch pink, and one part each of King’s yellow and English pink. Green: made by mixing blue and yellow. Dark blue: Indigo ; which may be made lighter by the addition of verditer. Orange brown : Two parts of Venetian red, and one part of orange lead. Fine orange: Put some yellow ochre in a ladle over a fire, and keep it there till it assumes a dark red colour. Take of this red ochre (finely pounded) and of Venetian red equal quantities, and add a little orange orpiment or rose-pink, mix altogether. Umber colour : Equal quantities of Venetian red and ivory black. Cinna- mon colour: Venetian red with a little Prussian blue. All other colours can be made by mixing together those already described, as experience will dictate. 274. In addition to the articles already mentioned, ob- tain the following: a bottle of ox-gall, a bottle of good oil of turpentine, and some pure water. 275. Supposing you to be provided with the materials for marbling, the next thing is to shew you how to set about the operation. In the first place, the trough, al- ready described, must be filled (at least to the eighth of the top) with a solution of gum tragacanth, which is to be prepared as follows: gum of a pale white, semi-trans- parent appearance,(gum of a pure white or of a brownish colour is often bad) is to be soaked in water for at least forty-eight hours, in the proportion of half a pound to a gallon and half; this should make a gum water as thick as that used in miniature painting. Pass this solution throuo-h a hair sieve or linen cloth, and pour it into the trough. In all cases when the trough is to be used, the solution should be stirred with a few quills, and the sur- face of it cleared from film, &e. by the skimmer descri- bed in receipt 266.