THE RECEIPT BOOK. P 3 178 400. For dyeing black cloth dark green.Cleftn your coat with bullock’s gall and water, and rinse in warm water, then make a copper full of water boiling hot and take from one pound to one pound and a half ot ins tic, p it in, and boil it twenty minutes, to which add a lunJP • alum, as big as a walnut; when this is dissolved m your copper, put in your coat and boil it twenty minutes hen take it out, and add a small wine glass, three parts full, at chemic blue, and boil again from hall an hour to an houi , the cloth will be a beautiful dark green, w ash out and dry . 567. Maroons.—Which are shades ot red, are done wi Brazil wood and galls. Supposing^ thingto be dyed be a pelisse, after the cloth is well scoured, boil it tor halt an hour in alum and tartar,' as for madder red; then in the second liquor, when you put in your Brazil, as tor i azi. red, add two blue galls well pounded, m a bag. ei they have boiled a quarter of an hour, take them out be- fore you put in your goods, for if the galls be left in die copper in the bag, they may spot, and cause the ye o e Some dyers boil the goods for an hour m galls or sumach both being of the same nature, then draw them out, an wash in cold water, and afterwards boil them for an hour in alum and tartar, using rather more tartar for reds. 1 his second preparing liquor is thrown away, and a third li- quor is made for dyeing with about half a pound ot Brazi wood, and sometimes more, as the shade is required. 561. To make a Decoction of Brasil Wood, otherwise call- ed Brazil Juice, or fermented Brazil. Much Brazil is saved by this means, and it works much better. Fill your copper quite full of hard spring water; then put in three or four pounds of Brazil, for every ten gallons of water ; boil them an hour, draw oil* the clear ot this liquor, and put it it in a deal cask, or pan, pouring fresh clean water on the Brazil grounds; boil as before an hour or two, and so continue till the Brazil is spent. Keep this fermented Brazil juice any length of time, till it becomes oilyr, the older the better. In tact, this is the only way Brazil wood will give out its colour. _ _ • If a dark maroon be required, it is to be saddened by taking out the goods a quarter of an hour previous to their