48' THE RECEIPT BOOK. * 180. To gild leather for doors, folding screens. See. —Take one 4ozen of clear brown sheep-skins, damp them with a sponge and water, then strain them tight ^fith tacks on a board, sufficiently large; when dry, size them with a clear double size; tnen take the whites of fresh eggs, beat them with a whisk to a foam, and let them stand to settle; then taking books of leaf silver (about three do- zen will be sufficient, according to the size of the skins,) and blow out the silver on a gilder’s cushion; pass over the leather with the egg size, and with a tip-brush lay on the silver, closing any blister with a bit of cotton; when dry varnish them over with yellow lacker till they are of a fine gold-colour $ your skins being gilt, cut them out as you please, and join them with paste to any length. Observe to perform the foregoing operation in the height of summer, when the air is clear, dryr, and warm, that the skins may dry* well before you size them ; that the size may have the desired effect upon the outer pores , and that the silver may not tarnish before you lacker it. 187. To make improved wholesome purl.—Take Roman wormwood two dozen, gentian-root six poonds; calamus aromaticus (or the sweet flag root) twro pounds; a pound or two of the galien-gale root; horse-radish one bunch ; orange-peel dried, and juniper berries each two pounds.; seeds or kernels of Seville oranges dried, two pounds. These being cut and bruised, put them into a clean butt, and start mild brown beer upon them, so as to fillup the vessel about the beginning ot November, and let it stand till the next season; and make it thus annually. 188. Saponaceous draught for the yellowj aunp ice.—Take from two scruples to four, according to the age and state of the patient and the disease, of the best \ eruce soap, and boil it in six ounces of milk till reduced to four, then af d three drams of sugar and strain it for a draught. Inn quantity is to be taken every morning and afternoon tor four or five days, and is a prevailing remedy against the iaundice According to Barbette, a similar draught 'cured a young woman of the most dreadful epileptic fits,, with w hich she had been afflicted almost a whole year.