_165 THE RECEIPT BOOK in which a little green copperas has been'dissolred. In the meantime add madder, cam-wood, or red-wood to your copper, with more sumach, if required, for half an hour ; then cool down your copper, and keep it at a hand-heat; lastly put in your cottons, and boil to colour. 551. Another broiun.—Supposing the article a gown, you must wash it and rinse it in warm water. Then boil a quarter of a pound of sumach, one ounce of madder, and three ounces of fustic, saddened by green copperas. When dissolved, and tho^ roughly mixed with the liquor, cooldown your copper and put in your gosvn ; keep the copper at a hand-heat. Some use a great body of archil in dyeing these browns ; by these different ingredients the shades may be varied without end. Walnut root, and the green rind of walnuts, &c. are used for dyeing cottons brown; so are logwood and sumach, in dyeing chocolate, 8cc. which are saddened by copperas. When the browns are too red and dull, it is customary to add a very sn>all quantity of red, oak dust gives the greatest body. 552. To dye a cotton gown black.—The receipt that follows, I consider the best for black cotton ; but I have dyed black various ways ; the first method I followed for a considerable time ; but oak dust gives the greatest body. For a gown, take half a pint of ground sumach, put it into a sieve, and place it in pan : then pour boiling water on it, and let the sumach water run into a pan ; put in your gown, and let it steep for six hours; dissolve two ounces of green cop- peras in another pan of cold water, into which put the gown ; handle it well, and let it remain for two hours; then take it out, and slightly rinse it; next take about three or four ounces of slacked lime; put this in a pan of cold water, and let it stand for a quarter of an hour; pour off the clear, into which put your gown, and handle it well for ten minutes; take it out and wash it; prepare your copper with half a pound of chipped logwood, and one pound of fustic; boil these half an hour; then cool your copper, and put in your gowns for half an hour; take it out and add an ounce or more of copperas; put in the gown again for half an hour; take it out, cool it, put it in again for twenty minutes, taking care to handle it well all the time; then take it out, wash it, and dry it. If it should not