THE RECEIPT BOOK. 53 •will be left behind. Freshwater is then to be poured into the bag-, till all the alum is washed away; after which thocolour must be dried, so as to prevent any dust from settling- on it; and, being- previously reduced to an impal- ¥ible powder, on g-lass or marble, it will be fit for use. he best carmine generally sold, is supposed to be manu- factured from cochineal, by a process which is carefully concealed among the few who are interested in keeping the secret. 196. Method of making alum finings for all sorts of spi- rituous compounds and cordials.—'The method of preparing alum water for the purpose of making finings, is by boil- ing a drachm of alum in a pint of water, till half the water has evaporated; and putting in the cordial liquor, which requires fining, after the rate of only half a tea-spoonful, made of the warmth of new milk, for every gallon. This small quantity will not be found at all to affect the liquor, but care must be taken never to exceed that proportion. 297. Artificial musk.—The mode of making artificial musk, which is used in Germany, for that expensive drug, is as follows—Add, to one drachm of oil of amber, by small portions at a time, four times the quantity of nitrous acid, carefully stirring them together with a glass rod all the time, and continuing to do so till the whole be con- verted into a yellow resin, possessing the smell of musk. It must be kept closely stopped up, like real musk; and may sometimes supply the place of that high-priced arti- cle, not forgetting the nature of its chief ingredient. 10S. Syrup and oxymcl of garlic, for old and asthmatic coughs.-—The garlic syrup, though one of the least plea-' Sant syrups much is made,' gives the virtues of garlic in the best manner they can be acquired, and retained by means of any watery menstruum. It is prepared accord- ing to the Dublin Dispensary, for it does not appear to be now used either in the English or Scotch practice, in the following manner—Macerate one pound of sliced garlic, in a vessel containing two pounds of boiling water, for twelve hours; and add four pounds of refined sugar to E a