47 . THE RECEIPT BOOK. Tliis sealing wax, which is seldom used for any other purpose than that of receiving- the impressions of seals of office to charters, patents, proceedings in chancery', &c. is prepared, when to be used white, by mixing- half a pound of bees-wax, an ounce and a half of turpentine, and half an ounce of sweet oil, and carefully boiling- them tog-e- ther, till the compound becomes of a fit consistency for moulding into rolls, cakes, or balls, for use. If colour be wanted, it is readily obtained by stirring into the melted mass about half an oz. of a proper pigment, as in making the red or other coloured hard sealing wax. 183. Curious method of separating gold and silver from lace, without burning it.—Cut in pieces the gold or silver lace, intended to be divested of any thing but the pure metal; tie it up tighly in linen and boil it in soap ley, till the size appear diminished: then take the cloth out of the liquid, and, after repeatedly rinsing it in cold water, beat it well with a mallet, to extract all the alkaline particles. On opening the linen, to the astonishment of those who have never before witnessed the process, the metallic part will be found pure and undiminished, in all its natural brightness, without a single thread. 184. Permanent red ink for marking linen.—This useful preparation, which was contrived by the late learned and ingenious Dr. Smellie, of Edinburgh, who wras originally a printer in that city, may be used with either types, a hair pencil, or with a pen: take half an ounce of vermil- lion, and a drachm of salt of steel; let them be levigated with linseed oil, to the thickness or limpidity required for the bccasion. This has not only a very good appearance, but will be found to resist the effects of acids, as well as of all alkaline leys. It may be made of other colours, by substituting the proper articles instead of vermillion. * , 185. Best method of making common or simple syrup for general use.—Dissolve a pound and three quarters of dou- ble-refined sugar in a pint of water, by means of what is called the water bath; this, besides other advantages, prevents the possibility of the sugar boiling over: after it has stood a few hours pour it into a stone jar for use.