THE RECEIPT BOOK. 60 244. Pomacl divin.—Clear a pound and a half of beef marrow from the string’s and bones, put it into an earth- en pan or vessel of water fresh from the spring', and change the water night and morning1 for ten days, then steep it in rose water twenty four hours, and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce each of storax, gum benjamin,cypress powder, half an ounce of cinnamon, two drachms, of cloves, and two drachms of nutmeg-s, all finely powdered, and mix them with the marrow above prepared. Put all the ingredients into a pewter pot that holds three pints ; make a paste of white of eg-g- and flour, lay it upon a piece of rag-, and over it another piece of linen. With this cover the top of the pot very close that none of the steam may be evaporated ; put the pot into a larger copper pot with water, taking care to keep it steady, that the water may not reach to the covering of the inner pot. As the water shrinks, constantly add more, boiling hot ; it must boil 4 hours without ceasing. When the steam has ceased to rise, uncover and strain the ointment through a linen cloth into small pots; and cover these up close with bladder and paper as soon as cold. Silver knives and spatula should be used, those of other materials absoi'bing a part of the odours. 245. Gilding upon glass.—The art of gilding upon glass, which is a revival and improvement upon attempts made many years ago, is chiefly used for decorating the borders of prints, in executing- name-plates, and inscrip- tions for various purposes ; as also for ornamental decor- ations in a variety of elegant works, with different co- loured ground ; but as black is the most general one in demand, I shall first proceed to treat on that, You are to procure some of the finest isinglass, which you will distinguish by holding between you and the light, when that which is white and transparent is the best, and the contrary is totally unfit for this purpose : you are to dissolve it in very clean water, pretty thick, and strain it through a linen cloth, then into a tea-cup of very clean milkwarm water; put about the size of a small pea, of the isinglass jelly, which let gently incor- porate with water, then having your glass that is to be gilt, quite clear, and free from any dirt or grease, get some leaf gold, the less porous in the beating, the better, put it on a gilding cushion, and cut it in pieces to suit,