228 THE RECEIPT BOOK. Let it settle, and pour it clear into the glasses. Cover them close with a bladder and leather. 781. Radish pods,—Make a pickle with cold spring water, and bay salt strong enough to bear an egg ; put your pods in, and lay a thin board upon them to keep them under water, let them stand ten days, drain them in a sieve, and lay them in a cloth to dry. Take while wine vinegar, as much as will cover them, boil it, and put the pods in a jar, with ginger, mace, cloves, and pepper, Pour on your vinegar boiling hot; coyer ihem with a coarse cloth ; three or four times double, that the steam may come through a little, and let them stand two days Repeat this twice or thrice; when cold, put in a pint of mus- tard seed, and some horse radish, cover them close. 782. Onions.—Take small onions, peel them, lay them in salt and water a day, and shift them in that time once ; dry them in a cloth, and take some white wine vinegar, cloves, mace, and a little pepper ; boil this pickle,and pour over them, and when cold cover them close. 783. Samphire.—Lay green samphire in a pan, and throw two or three handsful of salt over it. Cover it with spring wa- ter. When it has lain four and twenty hours, put it into a brass receiver, with one handful of salt, and cover it with the best vinegar. Cover your saucepan close, and set it over a gentle fire ; let it stand no longer than till just crisp aud green for it would be utterly spoiled should it stand till it be soft. As soon as you have taken it off the fire, pour it into pickling pots, and cover it close. 784. Cahhage.—Take a fine red cabbage, and cut in thin slices, season some vinegar with whafespiee you think fit, and put it on scalding hot two or three times. 785. French beans.—Gather them before they have strings put them in a very strong brine of water and salt till they are yellow, drain them from the brine, putting boiling hot water to them, and stop them close twenty four hours, do so foilr or five days following, and they will turn green, put to a peck of beans half an ounce each of cloves, mace and pepper.