THE RECEIPT BOOK. 149 liquor at a hand-heat, and likewise in its own liquor, and dried in a warm room. This colour may be saddened by pass- ing it through a liquor of warm water, in which a small piece of green copperas lias been dissolved ; and, on some occa- sions, the silk is passed through warm water in which a small quantity of purple archil is mixed. 501. A false crimsdn.—Supposing the article to be a silk gown, and you wish to dye it quickly of a crimson ; first clean it well, and rinse it in very warm water; then dissolve an ounce of alum, and when the alum water is at a hand-heat, put in your article, whiclfmust remain in this liquor for two hours, now and then handle it over.. At the expiration of that time, take it out, and slightly rinse it in cold water. In the interim, boil half a pound of ground Brazil wood, for half an hour or an hour : then pour it into yowr pan, and put in your goods, and handle them half an hour ; then take from your copper the remaining part of your Brazil liquor, and put it into your pan, and handle there until you see your gown, &c. will not take a fuller colour. To crimson it to the shade re- quired, add a sufficient quantity of purple archil. It may bt; rinsed by adding a quart or two of your dye liquor, to a pan of warm water ; lastly, dry it in doors. 502. Another method of dyeing crimson.—This is done by pouring boiling water on cud-bear. After your silks are well cleansed, handle them through this cudbear dye for half an hour, and if not crimsoned enough, they may be saddened, or made more of the violet, by adding pearl-ash, chamberlye, or any other alkaline solution. They must be rinsed very slightly. 503. Another crimson taken from the French method of dyeing.—Take two ounces of gum arabic, and for every pound of silk two ounces of cochineal, and the third of an ounce of agaric, and the same quantity of turmeric ; mix and put them into your copper, and when they begin to boil, and the gum is dissolved, put your silk in, let it boil two hours, and then it is dyed; wash it slightly, and dry it in the shade. N. B. The above receipt will produce a most beautiful vio- let, if it be dipped for a short time in a blue vat of any kind :