S3 THE RECEIPT BOOK. All these tinctures are designed as stomachics and cor- roborants as well as purgatives. In weakness of the sto- mach, indigestion, laxity of the intestines, fluxes, eho- licky and other complaints, they are frequently of great service. The dose is from half a spoonful to three or four spoonfuls or more, according to the circumstances of the patient, and the purposes it is intended to answer. 297. Paragoric elixir.—Take of flowers of benzoin half an ounce; opium two drachms. Infuse in one pound of the volatile aromatic spirit, four or five days, frequently shaking the bottle ; afterwards strain the elixir. This is an agreeable and safe way of administering opium. It eases pain, allays tickling coughs, relieves difficult breathing, and is useful in many disorders of children, particularly the whooping cough. The dose to an adult is from fifty to sixty drops. 298. Acid elixir of vitriol.—Take of the aromatic tinc- ture one pint; oil of vitriol, three ounces. Mix them gradually, and after the foeces have subsided, filter the elixir through paper, in a glass funnel. This is one of the best medicines that I know for hys- teric and hypochondriac patients, afflicted with flatulen- cies, arising from relaxation of the stomach and intestines. It will succeed where the most celebrated stomachic bitters have no effect. The dose is from ten to forty drops in a glass of wine or water, or a cup of bitter infusion, twice or thrice a day. It should be taken when the sto- mach is most empty. 299. Camphorated spirit of wine.—Dissolve an ounce of camphor in a pint of rectified spirits. This solution is employed as an embrocation in bruises, palsies, the chro- nic rheumatism, and for preventing gangrenes. The above quantity of camphor, dissolved in half a pound of the aromatic spirit, makes Ward’s Essence. 800. Spirit of minder erus.—Take of volatile sal ammo- niac, any quantity. Pour on it, gradually, distilled vine- gar, till the effervescence ceases. This medicine is useful in promoting a discharge by