THE RECEIPT BOOK. 20 quire more than a pint or quart at once. That in general tise being white hard varnish. 117. To varnish apiece offurniture.—-First, observe the work to be clean, then see if any knots or blemishes requires filling up, which must be done with cement of the same co- lour. Have your varnish in an earthen pot, with a piece of wire diametrically across the top, slackened downwards, to stroke the brush against; then see that your brush is clean, and free from loose hairs, dip your brush, and give the work a thin coat, and regular ; soon after that another, and another, always taking care not to pass the brush twice in the same place; let it then stand to dry, in a moderately warm place, that the varnish may not chill. When you have given the work about six or seven coats, let it get quite hard (which you will prove by pressing your knuckle on it, if it leaves a mark it is not hard enough;) then with the three first fingers of your hand rub the vainish till it chafes, and proceed all over that part of the work you mean to polish, in order to take out all the streaks or partial lumps made by the brush ; give it then another coat, and let it stand to harden. 118. To polish varnish—Has been considered by many as a matter of difficulty, they having furnished themselves with a quantity of materials, and as often failed of success for want of patience, the process being rather tedious. Take two ounces of Tripoli powdered, put it in an earthen pot or basin, with water to cover it; then take a piece of fine flannel, four double, lay it over a piece of cork or rubber, and proceed to polish your varnish, always wetting it with the Tripoli and water ; you will know when the process is done by w iping a part of the work with a sponge, and observe whether there is a fair eveu gloss, then take a bit of mutton suet, and fine flour, and clean oft' the work. 119. General Observations.—'First, the varnish for cabinet work should be very clear and bright, otherwise it will give a dingy shade to all light-coloured woods. Secondly, some persons polish with rotten stone, others with putty-powder; and I have seen varuish polished with C 3