THE RECEIPT BOOK. 121 Infuse the roses in the water for four hours, in an un- g-lazed earthen vessel; afterwards, pour in the acid, and haviug strained the liquor, add it to the sug-ar. In an excessive flow of the menses, vomiting of blood, and other haemorrhages, a teacupful of this gently astrin- gent infusion may be taken every three or lour hours. It likewise makes an exceeding good gargle. As the quantity of roses used here can have little or no effect, an equally valuable medicine may be prepared by mixing the acid and water without infusion. 420. Infusion of tamarinds and senna.-—Take of tama- rinds one ounce; senna, and crystals of tartar, each two drachms. Let these ingredients be infused four or five hours in a pint of boiling wrater ; afterwards let the liquor be strained, and an ounce or two of the aromatic tincture added to it. Persons who are easily purged, may lea^e out either the tamarinds or the crystals of tartar. A tea- cupful may be given every half hour till it operates. This supplies the place of the Decoction of Tamarinds and Senna. 421. Spanish infusion.—Take of Spanish juice, cut into small pieces, an ounce; salt of tartar, three drachms. In- fuse in a quart of boiling water for a night. To the liquor add an ounce and a half of the syrup of poppies. In recent colds, coughs, and obstructions of the breast, a tea-cupful of this infusion may be taken with advantage three or four times a day. 422. Infusionfor the palsy.—Take of horse-radish root? shaved, mustard seed, bruised, each four ounces ; outer rind of orange peel, one ounce. Infuse them in two quarts of boiling wrnter for twenty-four hours. In paralytic complaints, a tea-cupful of this warm sti- mulating medicine may be taken three or four times a-day. It excites the action of the solids, proves diuretic, and, if the patient be kept warm, promotes prespiration. If two or three ounces of the dried leaves of marshtre- foil be used instead of the mustard, it will make the An- tiscorbutic Infusion. L