THE RECEIPT BOOK. 155 520. For dyeing and cleaning feathers.—Feathers to be dyed, must first be cleaned, by passing them through the hands, in warm soap and water, and by giving them fresh liquors of soap and water, and at last rinsing them in warm water. Previously to their being dyed, it is necessary that they should be soaked in warm water for several hours. The same degree of heat should be kept up but the water must be little more than blood warm. If for yellows or reds, they must be alumed in cold alum liquor for a day or two, according to the body of colour you require the feathers to imbibe; then immerse them in your dye liquor. For some drab colours, it will be necessary to use the alum water at a blood heat: its beiug too hot would injure the fea- thers. For dyeing browns, archil, &c. are used instead of woods, barks, cudbear is also used. After a feather has been dyed any dark brown or other dark colour its nature is lost, and consequently its texture. It is unprofitable for the wearer to re-dye them, and difficult even for a dyer to perform. A feather by being beaten across the hand soon dries ; by this means feathers are as easily dyed as silk or woollen, and there is greater certainty of obtaining the desired shade. The only difficulty in dyeing feathers is in compounding the dye- ing materials, and making a homogeneous liquor of them, so as to produce the desired shade, alter being saddened or made of a darker colour by means of green copperas, which is generally used to darken brown greys, blacks, slate colour, &c. Sumach and fustic, or sumach alohe, is the general grounds of browns : the red as I have before observed, is obtained by archil : and the black hue by green copperas, in warm water : after the feather has been put into the copperas water, it may be returned again into the dye water, aud back again into the copperas: but care should be taken each time that the feather is rinsed from the copperas water, before it is again returned into the dye liquor, otherwise the copperas would spoil it. Care also should be taken not to use too much copperas in sad- dening colours, as it injures the texture, and prevents the colour from appearing bright : arid if the ground colour be not of a sufficient body, the saddening or copperas will make it uneven. The same preparation as would dye silk, of the same colour will dye feathers; in short, feathers as well as silk, being