THE RECEIPT BOOK. 31 being patronised by the nobility of France, they became in- dispensable appendages to the boudoir and library. The Parisians next attempted to copy them, but never suc- ceeded, proofs of which are still to be seen in the mansions of the nobility of this kingdom. Since which brass has gradually been brought into general use in ornamenting the best work. The French mode of ornamenting with brass differs widely from ours; theirs being chiefly water-gilt (Or Moulu,) ex- cepting the flutes of columns, &c. which are polished very high with rotten stone, and finished with elder coal.—Many elegant pieces of workmanship have been executed here in the same manner, but from the high prices of casting, chasing, and gilding, it never came into general repute. Our ingenious brass foundejs, both in town and country, have at length not only equalled, but surpassed the French in finishing, bronzing, and lackering their exquisite productions —so that at present the use of Or Moulu ornaments is confined to a small circle. Since the French visited Egypt, the furniture in the first circles of Europe has literally displayed a most grotesque as- semblage of monsters from the Nyle of Cydnus, which, (how- ever calcalated they may be to inspire fear in a beholder,) have caused much joy among the carvers, the race of whom would probably by this time have been extinct. 124. To make the gold lacker for brass.—Take of rectified spirits of wine two quarts, and three pounds of seed lac (picked particularly clean, and clear off all black and brown specks and pieces, as upon that depends the entire beauty of the lac) add them together, keep them warm, and shake them often; when the lac is dissolved it is fit for use. 125. To clean old brass work for lackermgt—Y\rst boil a strong lye of wood ashes, which you may strengthen by soap lees ; put in your brass work, and the lacker will immediately come off, then have ready a pickle of aquafortis, and water, strong enough to take off the dirt, wash it immediately after i n clean water, dry it well and lacker it. 126. To clean silver furniture. —Lay the furniture piece by piece upon a charcoal fire, and when they are just red take