T HE RECEIPT BOOK. 204 685. Veal Escallops.—Mince your veal very small, simmer it with some spice, pepper, salt, and a little cream. Put it into the shells, add to them rasped bread with some butterand brown them before the fire. Chickens dressed in the same way make a very, good dish. GSG. Sweetbreads.—Parboil them, and when cold, lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Duich oven. For sauce, serve plain butter, and mushroom ketchup. 687. Calf’s head.—Take out the bones, dry it in a cloth. Make a seasoning of beaten mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg,, some bacon cut very small, and grated bread. Strew it over the head, roll it up, skewer it, aud tie it with tape. Baste with butter, and when done pour rich veal gravy over it, and serve with mushroom sauce. 688. Calf's Liver.—Cut a long hole in it, and stuff it with crumbs ofbread, chopped anchovy, herbs, tat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, bit of butter, aud an egg : sew the hole up, lard it, or wrap it in a veal caul. Serve with good brown gravy and currant jelly. 98fh Leg of Pork.—Parboil the leg, take off the skin, clap it down to a clear fire, and baste it with butter, shred sage fine, mix it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and bread crumbs, Stew some of the mixture occasionally over it; baste it again with butter just before you take it up, that it may be well frothed. Serve with gravy in the dish, and with potatoes and apple- sauce. Or cut a slit in the knuckle, and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. 690. Veal.—Paper the udder of the fillet, to preserve the fat and the back of the loin to prevent it front scorching, lay the meat some distance from the fire, that it may well warm through, baste it with butter, and dust on a little flour, when it has soaked some time, draw it nearer the fire, and a little be- fore you take it up, baste it again, roast the breast with the caul on, and the sweetbread skewered on the inside. When it is near done take off the caul, and baste it with butter. It is proper to have a toast baked, and laid in the dish with a loin of veal. Oarnish with lemon and barberries.