187 THE RECEIPT BOOK the bones, and put them into a saucepan with some gravy and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace and pepper. Have ready two or three ox palates blanched, and cut into small pieces. A cow-heel, cut into pieces, may be added. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and put the gravy to it. Then add the meats cut into small pieces, and stew. Half pint of sherry, an anchovy, two spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, two of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs, balls, &c. N. B. Make your forcemeat-balls as directed for turtle, which see. 611. Brown portable soups.—‘Take a large leg of beef, bone it, and take off the skin, and the fat; put it into a stoving pot with a tight cover, with about four gallons of soft water, six anchovies, half an ounce of mace, a lew cloves, half an ounce of whole pepper, three onions, a bunch of thyme, sweet marjoram, ana parsley, with the bottom crust of a small loaf; cover it very close, and let it Jiave a constant fire to do ltisurely for seven or eight hours; stir it well together, to make the meat separate ; cover it close again, and in an hour try your soup in a'cup if it will glutinate; if it does, take it off, and strain it in a canvas bag; have china, or glazed earthen cups ready, and fill them with the jelly : put them into a gravy-pan, or'stew-pan, with boiling water, and let them boil till it is perfectly glutiuous. When they are almost cold, run a knife round them, and turn them on a piece of flannel, to draw out the moisture; in six hours turn them,and do so till they are hard and dry; put them into stone jars, and keep them in a dry place. When you intend to make it into soup, shred and wash clean what herbs you have to enrich it,as celery, endive, chervil, leeks, lettuce, or what herbs you please, or use the essences as mentioned in the observations on soups; boil them in water till they are tender, strain them off, and dissolve what quantity of portable soup you please, ac- cording to the strengtli you would have it. Fry a French