29 THE RECEIPT COOK. 161. To varnish harps, dulcimas, Sfc. in the Indian man- ner.—Prepare the work with size and red ochre, then take oehrr, burnt umber, and red lead, well ground, and mix up a dark brown colour in turpentine varnish, adding- as much spirits of turpentine that you may just be able to work it, pass over your work even, and while it is yet wet, take a muslin sieve, and sift as much Hutch metal (bronze) upon it as you may think requisite to produce the effect, after which varnish and polish it. 162. To destroy hugs.—Mix half a pint of spirits of turpentine and half a pint of best rectified spirits of wine in a strong- bottle, and add about half an ounce of cam- phire, which will dissolve in a few minutes. Shake the mixture well tog-ether; and, with a spong-e or brush dip- ped in it, well wet the bed and furniture where the bug-s breed. This will destroy both them and their nits, though they swarm. The dust however should be brushed from the bedstead and furniture, to prevent, from carelessness, any stain. If that precaution is attended to, there will be no dang-er of soiling the richest silk or damask. On touching a live bug- with only the tip of a pin put into the mixture, the insect will be instantly deprived of life, and should any hugs happen to appear, after using the mixture, it will be from not wetting the linen, &c. of the bed; the foldings and linings of the curtains near the rings or the joints, or holes in and about the bed, in which places the vermin nestle and breed; so that those parts being w ell -wetted with more of the mixture, which dries as fast as it is used, and pouring it into the- joints and holes, where the sponge and brush cannot reach, it will never fail totally to destroy them. The smell of this mixture, though powerful, is extreme- ly wholesome, and to many persons very agreeable. It' exhals however in two or three days. Only one caution is necessary; but that is important. The mixture must be well shaken when used ; but never applied by candle light, lest the spirits, being attracted by the flare of the candle, might cause a conflagration. 168. Instant relief for a pain and lax state of the boivels. Take twelve drops of laudanum, half a gill of spirituous D 2