THE RECEIPT BOOK. 7 24. Lead tree.—-To a piece of zinc fasten a wire, twist- ed in the form of the worm of a still, introduce it into the bottle, suspended to the cork. Let the bottle be filled with spring' water, with a small quantity of sugar of lead added. In a few days the tree will beg'in to grow, and produce a most beautiful effect. 35. To silver iron.—•Dissolve mercury in marine acid, and dip a piece of iron into it, or rub the solution over the iron, aud it will assume a silvery appearance, 36 To melt iron in a. moment and make it run into drops. —Heat a piece of iron thoroug'hly, and then apply to it a roll of sulphur, the iron will immediately run into drops. This experiment should be performed over a bason of wa- ter, in which the drops that fall down will be cooled. 37. Soft Pomatum.—Melt in a water bath half a pound of the best lard, take it off the fire, and add half a pint of rose water, stir it continually with a clean piece of wood or ivory, made in the form of a spatula or knife, until it is cold, then drain off the superfluous water that swims, on the surface, add a few drops of the otto of roses, or any other scent you please. In order to prevent its turning- rancid add a table spoonful of spirits of wine. .38. Hard pomatum.—Melt in a water bath a quarter of a pound of lard, quarter of a pound of mutton suet, and one ounce of white wax, take it off the fire, add a little spirits of wine, and for scent, otto of roses, or any other you choose.—Stir it continually till nearly cold, turn it into moulds, when cold take them out, and put paper round them. Ajs it is my intention to explain every process of making- preparations in as plain a method as possible, it perhaps may be uecessary to inform my readers, the simplest me- thod ol making- a water bath. I do it more readily as the numerous receipts for ointment, 8cc. will require its use. Get a glazed earthen pot capable of holding-two quarts, take a g-ood sized saucepan, or if it can be had a large size stew or preserve pan would be preferable—half fill it with water, and place the earthen pot (which holds the ingredients) in it, which forms at once a water bath, no-