170 THE RECEIPT BOOK. broken in the copper ; when the liquor is of a good red dye, which will be within half an hour, put in yonr goods, and han- dle them well one hour, or thereabouts. This will produce a bright red ; but if you want to have a fine red, you should deciease the quantity of madder, and add decoction of ground Eiazil wood. If you want them to be of a crimson cast, add purple archil to your pattern. The above is the cheapest red that is dyed. 5GO. Reds from brazil ivood alone.—The water of pre- paration must, for each pound of wool or woollen stuff, consist of four ounces of alum and one of red tartar; the hardest well- water must be used. The Brazil should be ground or rasped and boiled at least an hour before the goods are put in ; and they should also boil in the preparing-liquor, for two hours at least, and then be cooled from the preparing-liquor previous to their being put into the copper in which the Brazil has been boiled. They should be riused in two waters, and dried in the shade, or in a warm room. \ 561. For crimson in grain.—This is easily made: your copper being ready to boil, put in for each pound of cloth or stuff two ounces and a half of alum, and an ounce aud a half of white tartar ; let this boil a minute or two ; put in your goods, and boil them for an hour and a half; they are then to be taken out, and cooled in all places alike. The preparing liquor be- ffng emptied away, your copper is to be filled again with fresh water, and, when about lukewarm, put in about an ounce of cochineal, finely powdered ; when this boils, cool it down with a pint of cold water ; put in your goods and boil an heur or an hour and a half, as you may see occasion. They must be then taken out, washed and hung to dry. If a lighter shade is required, use less cochineal and less alum and tartar. A larger proportion of 'alum may be used, but not of tartar, as tartar would obscure the red, and leave a brick colour. 562. For a puce.—The following will produce a very beau- tiful fast coloured puce, which is, in fact, a purple browrn ; the red spuce may be germed a brown violet, ora gris dc lin, and these are much worn. Supposing the garment to be a pelisse ; when your copper