172 THE RECEIPT BOOK. 565. To dye a pelisse black.—Fill your copper wiill soft water to the brim, and when it begins to boil, add , 4 ounces of logwood, I ditto of sumach. 3 ditto of alder bark. When these ingredients have boiled half an hour, put in your pelisse, always recollecting to handle it over every ten minutes which is done with a short stick ; when you have done handling it, keep it under the water, and boil it this first time an hour, then take out your pelisse, and hang it across your horse or stick to cool. In the interim, take a bowl of your boiling liquor out, and put therein six ounces ol green cop- peras to dissolve ; when dissolved, put almost two thirds of it into your copper, and mix it well with the liquor, then check your copper, by throwing in as much water as may have eva- porated (or old alack liquor, if at hand) put in your pelisse handling as before, with a stick, See. at a boiling heat, during an hour, then it is to be taken out again, and cooled in all parts alike. In the interim add the remainder of your dissolved copperas check your copper again with cold water, or old liquor, and put in your pelisse again, and boil as before for two hours: then cool it again. While the cooling is carrying on, put into your copper, two orthree ounces of logwood, two or three ounces of bark, an ounce of grden copperas, nearly two ounces of pearl-ash and about half an ounce of powdered argol. These ingredients must be made to boil one hour ; when the copper must be checked as before, and the pelisse put in, and made to boil one hour, keeping it handled as before. Instead of the pearl-ash in this process, chamber-lye may be substituted. It the cloth should not be sufficiently boiled, or should seem not to be black enough, you may add a little more bark, and a little more logwood and copperas ; then putin again, and boil it an hour; afterwards, having cooled your cloth, put it again into the copper, and there let it remain till next day, but if you are in a hurry, there is no occasion for this? Lastly rinse your pelisse, &c. in three or four cold waters. It this process be regularly followed, it will produce a most beautiful black.