THE RECEIPT BOOK. 42 foot, or some other softening1 oil; two parts of a deep blue colour, prepared from iron and copper; and four parts of brown sug-ar-candy. The water is then evaporated till the composition becomes of a proper consistence, when it is formed into cakes of such a size as to produce, when dissolved in hot water, a pint of liquid blacking. 168. German method of blacking leather.—Take two pounds of the bark of elder, and the same quantity of the tilings of rust of iron ; steep them in two gallons of river water, and put them in a cask or earthen vessel closely stopped. After it has stood two months, put to the liquid when wrell pressed out, a pound of powdered nut-galls, and a quarter of a pound of copperas; then, after stirring it over a good fire, press out the liquid, with w hich the leather is to be three or four times brushed over, wrhen it becomes of an excellent and most durable black. 169. An incomparible fumigation, or vapour, for a sore throat.—Take a pint of vinegar, and an ounce of myrrh f boil them wrell together about half an hour, and then pour the liquid into a bason. Place over the bason the large part of a funnel which fits it; and, the small end being taken into the mouth of the patient, the fume will be in- haled, and descend to the throat. It must be used as hot as can be borne, and should be renewed every quarter of an hour, till a cure is effected. This remedy seldom fails if persisted in, only for a day or twro, and sometimes a very few hours, in the most dangerous state of either an in- flammatory or putrid sore throat, or even a quinsy. 170. Dr. Fuller's vapour for a quinsy.—Take powdered pepper, one ounce; milk, a quart; and boil them to a pint and half. Put the wrhole into a glass bottle with a small neck, and let the vapour be received as hot as can be en- dured with open mouth. “This euporiston,” says that learned physician, “ more powerfully than any gargle, attenuates, melts dow~n, and draws forth tough phlegm ; which, by obstructing the spongy flesh, and hindering the free passage of the blood and humours through them, occasions the inflammation and tumour; and takes off this distemper better than any of them.” It is to