THE RECEIPT BOOK. 54 the strained liquor. This syrup may be taken, a tea- spoonful or two at a lime, in obstinate coughs, whenever they are troublesome; and it is adapted to be used on auch occasions during the night. Garlic is well known to be not only a powerful expectorant, but a good diuretic, even sudorific, provided the patient be kept warm. For these purposes the oxymel of garlic, neglected by all the new dispensatories, seems to be still better than the syrup. It is easily made—Boil a quarter of an ounce each of carraway and sweet fennel seeds, in a glazed earthen vessel contain- ing half a pint of vinegar; when they have boiled a short time, add an ounce and a half of garlic cut in slices, cover the whole closely up, and let it stand till cold. The liquor must then be expressed, and mixed, in a boiling water- bath, with half a pound of clarified honey. - This medi- cine, it is said, not only relieve, but absolutely cure, an old asthmatic cough. 199. How to make paper fire-proof.— This effect is pro- duced by a most simple process. It is only necessary, whether the paper be plain, written, or printed on, or even marbled, stained, or painted for hangings, to immerse it in a strong solution of alum-water, and thoroughly dry it, when it will become fire-proof. This experiment is readily ascertained, by holding a slip of paper thus pre- pared over a candle. Some paper will require to imbibe more of the solution than it may receive by a single im- mersion ; in which case, the operation of dipping and dry- ing must be repeated till such paper becomes fully satu- rated, when neither the colour nor quality of the paper will be in the smallest degree affected, but that, on the contrary, both will be even improved. 200. Dr. Fuller's chemicalsiiufffor the head-ache, palsy, and drowsy distempers.—Medicinal snuffs, or errliines are chiefly to be used in the morning ; but, if needful, at any other time also. Take half a scruple of turpeth mineral, half a drachm of powdered liquorice, a scrupl e of nutmeg, and two drops of oil of rosemary; make them all into a fine powder, and snuff up into the nose a small quantity. This is so powerful, that it brings off thin lympha. Head- vises, that it should not be often repeated, without suuff-