152 THE RECEIPT BOOK. precise quantity of ingredients cannot be given, but it must entirely depend on the judgment of the person performing this process. ol3. London smoke colour.—There are several ways of dyeing this colour ; it is, in fact, a full bodied grey brown. It may however be termed a dingy shade of black, and is of the colour of smoke ascending from chimneys were coals are burnt. For a silk spencer, boil in your copper about two ounces of ground sumach, and add a very small quantity of archil : then dip out into a pan, and handle your silks after they are well cleaned for about twenty minutes ; lastly, add a small portion of old black silk, c'otton, or woollen liquor, See. copperas being dissolved, will answer as well. 514. On dyeing blacks and brown.—It is immaterial how great the quantity of dyeing materials are, which are used in dyeing either black or brown, so that it is according to pro- portion. For blacks I would always advise a good body for finishing. 515. For a black silk goivn.—When your copper boils put in half a pound of alder bark, and a gall or two, bruised: boil (or simmer) your silks in this for one hour ; then take them out and cool them well, by hanging them up in the air. In the interim, add a piece of green copperas, as big as a small horse bean ; when this is dissolved, cool down your copper, by adding cold water, and put in your goods, keeping your cop- per on the spring for half an hour, all the while handling your goods over with a stick : this is what is called bodying, stuf- fing, or preparing the silks to receive a black dye. Then draw them out again, and cool them and wash them. In the interim, add to your copper 6 ounces of fustic, half a pound of logwood, and a quarter of a pound of alder bark ; put in your goods, and simmer them an hour. After handling them well, draw them out, and add half an ounce of green copperas, and two ounces of logwood ; putin your goods again, and simmer for two hours. If the liquor in the copper, on the goods being taken out, does not appear of a jet black, more green copperas must be added i