THE RECEIPT BOOK. 98 350. The Horizonloriuttii — The horizontorium, on wliich the sketch in the frontispiece is founded, is an in- genious recreation, which was introduced to the public about three years since, and is one of the most amusing- deceptions ever witnessed. When viewed at any other but the correct point of sight, the designs appear a" g-roup of distorted objects, but when seen correctly, has all the appearance of reality. As the effect depends entirely upon placing- the sig-ht-piece, throug-h which it is to be viewed, we have adopted a mode of describing it.—A piece of paper, or card (which is better) must be cut out, of the precise shape and height of the piece ABC; an aperture for the eye, about the size of a pea (A) must be made, precisely on the spot shewn in the sight-piece must be folded back at a right'angle, so as to form a kind of foot to stand upon. The sight-piece must then be placed perpendicularly, exactly over the place D. Then keep- ing- the paper perfectly horizontal, and placing- the eye close to the aperture A, there may be seen a representa- tion of a castle, surrounded by scenery. A little expe- rience will g-ive the image or model exactly; if not, the person who makes the trial has not placed the sight-piece correctly. The light ought to fall on the side of the figure opposite the shadow. If the representation of the sight piece A B C is found to interfere with the picture, it may be covered with a piece of paper. Especial care should be taken that the paper be perfectly smooth, as the slightest wrinkle will distort the figure materially. The eye must also be placed close to the sight hole. 351. Vinegar of roses.—Take of red roses, lialfapound, strong- vinegar, half a gallon. Infuse in a close vessel tor several weeks, in the heat, and strain off the liquor. This is principally used as an embrocation for liead- aclis, & c. 352. Vinegar of squills.—Take of dried squills, two ounces; distilled vinegar, two pints. Infuse for ten days or a fortnight in a gentle degree of heat; strain off the liquor; add a twelfth part of its quantify of proof-spirit. This medicine has good effects in disorders oi the breast, occasioned by a load of viscid phlegm. It is also of use in hydropic cases, for promoting a discharge of urino.