8 THE RECEIPT BOOK. thing- more is required than placing- it over the fire, and the heat of the water boiling melts whatever may be placed in the earthen pot. w. p. C. II the the pomatums are for public sale, it will be high- ly requisite to obtain neat labels, which may be had at a moderate price, at Mr. Shaw’s, 137, Fetter-lane. 29. To make old gold appear like neiv.—Dissolve sal ammoniac in urine, boil the chain in it, and it will have the desired effect. 30< Gold lacquer.—Take fine sulphur and pulverise it, then boil some stale spring water, pour it hot upon the powder and stir it well together, boil it, and pour into it an ounce of cragon’s blood, after it is well boiled, take it off, and filter it through a fine cloth, pour this water into a mattass ( a chemical vassel) place in the liquor what you wish to colour br lacquer and boil it, and it will be a • beautiful gold colour. 31. Another way.—Take hepatic aloes, nitre and Roman vitriol of each equal quantities, and distill them with wa- ter in an alembic, till all the spirits are extracted, it will at last yield a yellowish water, which will tinge any sort of metal a gold colour. 82. To clean silver plate.—Dissolve alum in a strong ley, scum it carefully, and mix it up with soap, and wash your silver with it, using a linen rag. S3. Receipt for a Cold.—Take a tea-cupful of linseed, a quarter of a pound of stick liquorice sliced, and a quarter of a pound of sun raisins, put them in two quarts of soft water, and let it simmer over a slow fire, till nearly reduc- ed to one quart, then strain it off, and add to it, while it is hot, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar candy pounded. 34. A cure for the tooth-ache—An eminent apothecary, in the vicinity of this metropolis, has lately recommended, as an ffectual cure for the tooth-ache, the following re- medy, which he has been in the habit of using for many- years, and out of the number of cases, eight tenths have succeeded, viz, to take three table spoonfuls of brandy, adding to it one dram of camphor, with thirty or forty- drops of laudanum, and then dropping a little on some Jint, and apply it to the tooth affected, keeping the