THE RECEIPT BOOK. 163 tity of Spanish annatto dissolved in pearl-ash and warm water ; when this is done, throw it into your copper, then dip it out. into a pan, and proceed at a hand heat, as for yellows. Dry in a warm room. Some dyers run it through weld for halt an hour before they add the solution of annatto. 543. Nasturtium.—This is the same as orange, only not so strong of weld liqnor, but rather more so ot annatto and pearl-ash. 544. For red cottons.—Let your gown, or other article, be washed in soap and water, and rinsed in warm water, then take a quarter of a pound of sumach, and run some boiling water through it into a pan ; steep your gown in this for two hours ; dissolve two ounces of alum in a pan of hot water ; take- your gown and wash it clean out of the sumach, and put it iuto the alum water, and let it remain in it two hours, at a hand heat, handling it often ; put in your copper one pound andean half of peachwood, and a little Brazil wood ; boil these well for half an hour ; strain your liquor through a sieve into a pan, take your gown out of the alum, and give it a slight rinse in cold water ; put it iuto the pan of dye liquor, and handle it at a hand heat for half an hour or an hour, still adding fresh liquor out of your copper, till it comes to the fulness required ; wash it in the clear of the dye liquor, and dry it in a warm room. 545. For a madder red.—Some dyers use the best madder for red cottons, and put iu the pan, at a hand heat, some Bra- zil liquor. 546. For a red shawl, inclining to crimson. First wash your shawl in hot soap and water, and rinse in warm water. Into this put two or three ounces of sumach at a hand heat, for twenty minutes. In the interim, boil two ounces of madder for about twenty minutes, or simmer for half an hour. Next put your shawl in a liquor, consisting of two ounces of alum dissolved iu boiling water, and handle it now and then. After keeping it in for one or two hours, drain it, and let it cool; then rinse it slightly in cold water, and draw your madder