1G8 THE RECEIPT BOOK. mi, or strike fast enough, a little verdigris must be dissolved ill water, and added to your boiling water, which will cause it to adhere. For olive green, you may use a little altim with the fustic. 557. A process of dyeing blue by logwood.—This is quite a ialse colour, and should not be used where the goods are to be exposed much to the air, but is very beautiful in appearance. When your water boils, add for a pelisse, two pounds of logwood; when this has boiled half an hour, add a lump of vitrujljfrom one to two ounces, or more ; when this is dissol- ved, coffl your copper down, and put in your goods, and boil from one hour to an hour and a half, till the colour appears even and regular all over. Sometimes half the time dyes it. 558. On dyeing of yellows on stuff's and woollens.—I must begin this receipt by observing that all cloths, previous to being dyed, should be well scoured, and also be run through warm water, before they are put into the copper to be dyed. This colour is the first I have treated upon which actually requires any preparation, and which without it would not only have a dull appearance, but the colour would neither be even nor bright. Supposing' the garment to be dyed weighs two pounds, your copper should be made to boil, aud six or seven ounces of alum put in it, with two ounces of tartar; when this is dissolved, cool down your copper with cold water, and putin your goods and boil them, if you have time, from an hour aud a half to two hours, but it may often he prepared in an hour, if it has been well stirred in the copper; this liquor is then thrown away, and your copper filled and boiled. When it boils, put in about five or six pounds of weld ; the French is best, When this has boiled half an hour, more or less, till its virtues, are extracted, take it out, put in your goods, and boil to colour. Sometimes half an hour’s boiling does, or from that to two hours will do; but in this receipt the preparing liquor is very strong therefore the colour will strike in quickly. Supposing you want lighter shades as lemon yellow, pale yellow, straw, &c. half the quantity of alum and tartar will do; when dyed rinse in cold water. This receipt is for a full bright yellow.