161 THE RECEIPT BOOK. for two hours, now and then handling it, that it may take the colour evenly : then take it out, and immerse it for five mi- nutes in a pan of warm swater, in which a quarter or half an ounce of green copperas has been dissolved. It will then be a lead grey, more or less full. But, to turn it on the blue slate, draw your gown from that liquor, and run it through a decoc- tion of weak logwood liquor, made by boiling an ounce of log- wood chips, in a quart of water, with a small bit of pearl-ash, and throwing it into a pan of warm -water : handle the gown in this till it comes to the shade required ; wash and dry it in the air. 537. Another grey, called pearl or silver grey.—Fill your copper or boiler half full of river water; when it boils, take out half a pailful, and strain it through a quarter of a pound of sumach ; put in your gown to steep in this liquor for half an hour. In the mean time, throw a handful of wheaten bran into the copper, and boil it five minutes, then put two drachms of powdered alum into your copper. This will throw up all the scum, which must be taken off carefully with a bowl; take out your goods from the sumach liquor, wash them clean in cold water, put them again into the copper, and let them sim- mer ten minutes, having previously boiled two or three ounces of logwood for half an hour, with a quarter of an ounce of pearl-ash. The decoction should be boiled some time before it is used, and kept in ajar. A small quantity of it is to be added to the bran watt*- in the copper; cool down your copper, put in your goods, and let them simmer, handling them well, and adding the decoction to the colour required ; lastly, take them out, and let them be rinsed slightly, and dried in a warm room. Every gradation in the shades of slates or grey is made as in the foregoing receipts, by adding a larger or smaller quan- tity of dyeing materials, 538. For an olive green.—Let the article be first washed in soap and water, then wetted out in warm water ; then boil two ounces of chipped logwood, and three ounces of chipped fustic together for half an hour ; dip out your dye liquor, and o 3