218 THE RECEIPT BOOK. put it in a vessel, which must be quite filled with it. If the vessel holds about ten or twelve gallons, it must stand a fort- night or three weeks : or if about twenty gallons, about four or five weeks, to settle in a cold place : draw off the wine from the lees. After you have discharged the lees from the vessel, return the clear liquor into the vessel again, and let it stand three months, if the cask is about three gallons ; or between four or five months, if it be twenty gallons, and bottle it. This wine if truly prepared, according to the above directi- ons, will improve every year, and keep good for many years. 740. Currant wine.—Gather your currants full ripe; strip them and bruise them in a morter, and to every gallon of the pulp put two quarts of water, first boiled and oold : let it stand in a tub twenty-four hours to ferment, run it through a hair sieve: let no hand touch it, but take its time to run, and to every gallon of liquor, put two pounds and a half of white su- gar ; stir it well, put it in your vessel, and to every six gallons put ja quart of the best rectified spirit of wine. Let it stand six weeks, and bottle it. If it is not very fine, empty it into other bottles, and, after-it has stood a fortnight, rack it off into smaller bottles. 741. Raisin Wine.—To every gallon of clear river water; put five pounds of Malaga or Belvidere raisins ; let them steep a fortnight, stirring them ever day ; pour the liquor off,squeeze the juice of the raisins, and put both liquors together in a vessel that is the size to contain it exactly. Let the vessel stand open, till the wine has done hissing, or making the least noise: add a pint of French brandy to every two gallons; stop it close, and when it is fine, bottle it. If you would have it red, put one gallon of Alicant wine to every four of raisin wine. 742. Cherry Wine.—Pull off the stalks of the cherries, and mash them without breaking the stones press them hard through a hair bag, and, to every gallon of liquor put two pounds of coarse su^ar. The vessel must be full, and let it work as long as if makes a noise in the vessel; stop it up close for a month or more, and when it is fine, draw it into dry bottles.