THE RECEIPT BOOK. 12 47. IV kite ink for writing on black paper—Having care- fully washed some egg-shells, remove the internal skin, ajid grind them on a piece of porphyry. Then put the powder in a small vessel of pure water, and when settled at the bottom, draw off the water, and dry the powder in the sun. This powder must be preserved in a bottle; when you want to use it, put a small quantity of gum ammoniac into distilled vinegar, and leave it to dissolve dui'ing the night. Next morning the solution will ap- pear white; and if you strain it through a linen cloth, and add to it the powder of egg-shells, you will obtain a very wrhite ink. 48. To construct paper balloons.—Yake several sheets of silk paper ; cut them in the shape of a spindle ; or, to speak more familiarly, like the coverings of the sections of an orange; join these piecestogether into a spherical or globular body, and border the aperture w ith a ribbon, leaving the ends, that you may suspend from them the follow ing lamp. Construct a small basket of very fine wire, if the balloon is small, and suspend it from the aperture, so that the smoke from the flames of a few sheets of paper, wrapped together, and dipped in oil, may heat the inside of it. Before you light this paper, suspend the balloon so that it may, in a great measure, be exhaus- ted of air, and, as soon as it has been dilated, let it go, together with ihe wire basket, which will serve as ballot. 49. The fiery fountain.—If twenty grains of phosphorus, cut very small, and mixed with forty grains of pow der of zinc, be put into four drachms of water; and two drams of concentrated sulphuric acid, be added thereto, bub- bles of inflamed phosphorated hydrogen gas will quickly cover the whole surface of the fluid in succession, forming a real fountain of fire. 5j0. To give silver the colour of gold.—Dissolve in com- mon aqua-fortis as much silver as you please; to eight ounces of silver take four ounces of hepatic aloes, six ounces of turmeric, two ounces of prepared tutty, that has been several times quenched in urine. Put these to the solution of the silver, they wrill dissolve, but rise up in the glass like a sponge; the glass must therefore be large, to prevent running over, then draw it olf, and you will have ten ounces of silver as yellow as gold.