196 THE RECEIPT BOOK. 643. Fish Cullis.—Tiroil a pike, take off the skin, and separate the flesh from the bones. Boil six eggs hard, take out the yolks, blanch a few almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, and then add tbe yolks of eggs, mix these well with butter, putin the fish, and pound all together, Take half a dozen onions, cut them into slices, two parsnips, and three car- rot?. Set on a stewpan, with a piece of butter to brown, and when it boils put in the roots, turn them til! brown, and pour in a little stock to moisten them. When boiled a few minutes, strain it into another saucepan, add a leek, some parsley, sweet basil, half a dozen cloves, some mushrooms and truffles, and a few crumbs of bread. When it has stewed gently a quarter of an hour, put in the fish, &c. from the mortar. Let the whole stew some time longer; but without boiling. Strain it through a hair sieve. This is a.good sauce to thicken most made dishes. 644. Family Cullis— Take a piece of butter rolled in flour, stir it in your stewpan till the flour is of a fine yellow colour ; then put in some good gravy, a glass fof white wine, a bundle of parsley, thyme, laurel, sweet basil, two cloves, some nutmeg or mace, a few mushrooms, pepper and salt. Stew i t an bour over a slow fire, skim all the fat clean off, and strain it through a sieve. 645. White Braise.—Put the udder of a leg of veal into cold water for a few minutes, cut it in small pieces, and put them intp a stewpan, with a piece of butter, some ouions, a bundle of thyme and parsley, a little mace, a lemon pared and sliced, and a spoonful ot water, put it over a slow fire, and stii it for a few minutes, then add white gravy, according to the quantity you want to braise. It is generally used for tender- ness, for lamb, chicken, or any thing you wish to look white. 646. Brown Braise—Take some beef suet, with any trim- mings you may have, put the;n into a stewpan, with some onions, thyme, parsley, marjoram, mace, and a sliced carrot, set it over the fire : add abit ol butter, a little gravy, a few bay leaves, and six heads of celery; let it draw down for half an hour, then fill it up with good gravy, and a little white wine.