THE RECEIPT BOOK. 23 ink, and a common pen with a fine nib ; but this, even if it succeeds in making- a delicate black outline, is likely to be effaced by damp or wet. It would add to the natural resemblance, if the outlines __ were drawn with a strong- tint of each of the natural co- lours of the object; but in this respect please your own fancy. When the outlines are dry, colour and shade your figures; but observe, to temper your colours with strong white varnish. A pleasing effect will be produced, if you leave strong lights m some parts of the drapery, &c. with- out any colours. The best colours for this purpose are transparent ones; opaque or mineral colours will not do. The following are in most repute. For Pink and crimson...... Lake or carmine Blue Prussian blue Green Calcined Verdigris, or distilled do. Yellow Gumboge. 100. A liquor that shines in the dark••—Take a bit of phosphorus, about the size of a pea; break it into small parts, which you are to put into a glass, half full of water, and boil it in a small earthen vessel, over a moderate fire. Have in readiness a long narrow bottle, with a well fitted glass stopper, and immerse it, with its mouth open, into boiling water. On taking it out, empty the water, and pour in the mixture in a boiling state; then put in the stopper, and cover it with mastich, to prevent the entrance of the external air. This water will shine in the dark for several months, w ithout being touched; and if it be shaken in dry warm weather, brilliant flashes will be seen to rise through the middle of the water. 101, To melt a piece of money in a ivalnut-shcll, without injuring the shell.—-Bend any thin coin, and put it into half a walnut shell; place the shell on a little sand, to keep it steady. Fill the shell with a mixture made of three parts of very dry pounded nitre, one part of flowers of sulphur, and a little saw-dust w'ell sifted. If you then set light to the mixture, you will find, when melted, that the metal will also be melted in the bottom of the shell in form