77 THE RECEIPT BOOK. 276. Colours intended to represent veins.—are made by adding- a small quantity of gall to the colours, and stir- ring- each up well with a brush, in order that they may be properly mixed. Previous to use, these mixtures of colour and" g-all are to be thinned with water to the con- sistence of cream, and are to be well stirred up. 277. Colours for making spots like lace-work.—Take some dark blue, or other colour, add some g-all to it, and about as much, or a little less, oil of turpentiue; stir all well tog-ether, and dilute with water. 278. Your troug-h being- prepared, and your colours all at hand, it will now be proper to try if the latter are in a proper state. To do this, throw on the solution, by shaking- the various colour brushes over it, some spots of colour. If the spots spread out larg-er than a crown piece in size, the colours have too much g-all: if the spots, after spreading out a little, contract again, there is too little g-all in them. In the one case more colour must be added, in the other, more gall. 279. If the colours are in good order, and paper is to be marbled, the whole surface of the solution in the trough must be covered by colours, in spots, streaks, or curls, ac- cording to the pattern required, and laid on according to directions which will be given presently. The paper should be previously prepared for receiving the colours, by dipping it over night in water, and laying the sheets on each other, with a weight over them. The sheet of paper must be held by two corners, and laid in the most gentle and even manner on the solution covered with the colours, and there softly pressed with the hand that it may bear every where on the solution; after which it must be raised and taken off with the same care, and then hung to dry over the rods, 280. The following directions will serve to show how the various patterns are made.'—1. Throw on red till the solution is nearly covered, then some yellow, black, and green. You may add if you please a little purple with plenty of gall and water in it; yon may twist the colours into any shape you choose by means of a quill.—2. Throw on red, yellow, black and green, as before; but for a last