THE RECEIPT BOOK. 9 lint moistened for five minutes only to the tooth and gum. 85. Superior bitters.—Take half an ounce of the yolks of fresh eggs, carefully separated from the white, half an ounce of gentian root, one dram and a half of Seville orange peel, and a pint of boiling water; pour the water hot upon the above ingredients, and let them steep in it for two hours, then strain them through cap paper, and bottle it for use. 3-6. Ginger Wine.—Take four gallons of water and seven pounds of sugar, boil them half an hour, skimming it all the time: when the liquor is c*bld, squeeze in the juice of two lemons: then boil the peels, -with two ounces of white ginger, in three pints of water, one hour; when cold, put it altogether into the cask, with one gill of fin- ings, and thee pounds of Malaga raisins : then close it up, let it stand two months, and then bottle it off. N. B. A lump of unslacked lime put into your cask, will keep wine from turning sour. 37. To render boots and shoes snow and wafer-proof.—■ Dissolve a little bees wax and mutton suet in a napkin, then slightly rub it over the shoes and the stiches, which will repel the wet, and notin the least prevent the black- ing from having the usual effect. 83. Cure for the Gravel.—Dissolve three drachms of prepared netron in a quart of cold soft water, and take half this quantity in the course of the day. Continue this medicine for a few days, and that painful complaint will be dislodged.—It may be taken at any hour, but is best after a meal. It is 9aid, that the greatest martyrs to this disoi-der have been perfectly relieved by this sim- ple remedy, which every person should remember, and note it in a pocket book, as few families are without some individual afflicted with gravel in a greater or less de- gree. 89, To produce fire by the mixture of two cold liquids.— Take half a pound of pure dry nitre, in powder, put it in a retort that is quite dry; and distilling the mixture in a moderate sand heat, it will produce a liquor like a