THE RECEIPT BOOK. G2 to the surface of the heated tin, repeating1 the same se- veral times, until the material acted upon loses its heat, or you may be satisfied with the appearance of your work. A transparent varnish is now to be laid on, much whereof will be absorbed, and will of course be affected by any colouring matters you may mix with it; these, however, should not be opaque colours ; and a good po- lish being given to the work, produces that enviably brilliant covering we find lately so much in vogue for covering iron story posts, &c. 223. Another method,.—The fancy may be employed in using your acids in various degrees of dilution,whereby the cloudy reflections more or less resemble mother of pearl, or assume the deep shades of rude leaves, of stars and other figures or simply shapeless granulations. This is the process of M. Baget, and these his various mixtures. 1. Dissolve four ounces of muriate of soda in eight ounces of wrater, and add thereto two ounces ot nitric acid. 2. To eight ounces of water put two ounces of nitric acid, and three ol muriatic acid, 3. To eight ounces of water, add two ounces of muriatic acid, and one of sulphuric acid. One of those mixtures, at your pleasure, is to be poured upon the heated tin, while this rests upon a vessel of stone ware j the mixture is to be poured on by instalment, as it were ; the tin is then to be thrown into a slightly acidulated water, and after- wards washed in clean water. 224. Gold varnish.—To be laid on the tin which has been ornamented, by undergoing the process just des- cribed Take of shell Lac 2 oz. Arnatto . . . . 1 oz. Turmeric 1 oz. Dragon’s blood 30 grains. dissolve the whole in tw enty ounces of spirits of wine in a gentle heat. 225. Inebriation.—When men are reduced to this de- o-raded state, by the inordinate use of fermented liquors, fliey may be restored by adminstering a tea-spoon lull ol spirits of hortshorn, in a glass of water. Smelling at the spirits, dissipates the fumes arising front the same cause.