THE RECEIPT BOOK. 102 302. Chalybeate or steel wine.—Take filings of iron, twoonnces: cinnamon and mace, of each two drachms; Rhenish wine, two pints. Infuse for three or four weeks, often shaking- the bottle : pass the wine throug-h a filter. In the obstruction of the menses, this preparation of iron may be taken in the dose of half a glass twice a day. The medicine would probably be as g-ood if made with Lisbon wine, sharpened with half an ounce of the cream of tartar, or a small quantity of vitriolic acid. 363. Stomach wine.—Take of Peruvian bark powdered, an ounce; cardamon-seeds, and orange peel, bruised, of each two drachms. Infuse in a bottle of white port, or Lisbon wine, for five or six days; then strain off the wine. The wine is not only of service in debility of the sto- mach and intestines, but may also be taken as a preven- tive, by persons liable to the intermittent fever, or who reside in places where this disease prevails. It is of use to those who recover slowly, after fevers, as it assists di - gestion, and helps to restore the tone and vigour of the system. A glass may be taken two or three times a-day. 364. Singular effect of heat.—If a piece of tin foil be wrapped in a piece of platinum foil of the same size, and exposed on charcoal to the action of the blow pipe, the union of the two metals is indicated by a rapid whistling, and by an intense brilliancy in the light which is emitted. If the globule thus melted is allowed to drop in a basin of water, it remains red hot at the bottom ; and such is the intensity of the heat, that it melts and carries off the glaze of the basin from the part on which it falls. 365. Anew stain for wood.—A beautiful new stain for wood, consists of a decoction of walnut or hiccory bark, with a small quantity of alum dissolved in it, to give per- manency to the colour. Wood of a white colour receives by this liquid a beautiful yellow tinge, which is not lia- ble to fade. It is adapted for furniture made of maple, particularly that kind called bird’s eye. The application of the walnut dye gives a lustre even to the darkest shades, while to the paler and fainter ones it adds a somewhat