THE RECEIPT BOOK. 21 93. Yellow basilicum ointment.—Take of yellow wax, white resin, and frankincense, each a quarter of a pound ; melt them together over a genue fire; then add, ol hogs’ lard, one pound. Strain the ointment while wrarm. This ointment is employed for cleansing and healing wounds and ulcers. 94. Electuary for the piles.—'Take flowers of sulphur, one ounce ; cream of tartar, half an ounce ; treacle, a suffi- cient quantity to form an electuary. A tea-spoonful of this may be taken three or four times a-day. 95. Useful embrocation.—This receipt was never before made know n to the public in any shape whatever. In the capital of the west of England, (it was, and I believe is now,) made by a chemist, and sold as patent medicine. The success that attends its application in all kinds of bruises, swellings, green wounds, cuts, and sores, has ob- tained it an immense sale. Most families, who has wit- nessed its effects, keep it in their houses, as a remedy for all casual accidents.—Indeed I strongly recommend it, having witnessed its powers in several instances. The cheapness of the composition gives it a double claim to pub- lic patronage. It is made in the following manner : Take half an ounce of camphor, cut it into small pieces, and dissolve it in half a pint of spiritss of wine, in a closely corked bottle : when completely dissolved, add one pint of ox-gall, (which can be had at any butchers) and about forty or fifty drops of laudanum; shake it well, and bottle for use. The application is simple, requiring nothing more than beiug applied with some lint dipped into it. W. P. C. 96. Efficacious ointment for the Itch.—Mix two ounces of lard, with one ounce of sulphur-vivum, and a few drops ol essence of lemons. On going to bed apply the whole of this by well rubbing it on every part of the body, arms, &c. especially the parts most affected. The next morning let the ointment be washed off with soft soap and warm water; change the linen and clothes: should the disease