88 THE RECEIPT BOOK. of the^powder of the dried leaves, form it into pills of the ordinary sizo. The extract of hemlo k may be taken from one grain to several drachms in the day. The best method, how- ever, of using these pills is, to begun with one or two, and to increase the dose gradually, as far as the patient can bear them, without any remarkable degree of stupor or giddiness. 822. Mercurial pills.—Take ofpurified quicksilver and honey, each half an ounce. Rub them together in a mor- tar till the globules of mercury are perfectly extinguished; then add, of Castile soap, two drachms; powdered liquor- ice, or crumb of bread, a sufficient quantity to give the mass a proper consistence for pills. When stronger mercurial pills are wanted the quantity of quicksilver may be doubled. The dose of these pills are different, according to the intention with which they are given. As an alterative, two or three may be daily taken. To rise a salivation, four or five will be necessary. Equal parts of the above pill and powdered rhubarb, made into a mass, with a sufficient quantity of simple •yrup, will make a mercurial purging pill. 323. Mercurial sublimate pill.—Dissolve fifteen grains of the corrosive sublimate of mercury in two drachms of the saturated solution of crude sal ammoniac, and make it into a paste, in a glass mortar, with a sufficient quantity of the crumb of bread. This mass must be formed into one hundred and twenty pills. This pill, which is the most agreeable form of exhibit- ing sublimate, has been found efficacious, not only in cur- ing the venereal disease, but also in killing and expelling worms, after other powerful medicines had failed. For the venereal disease, four of these pills may be taken twice-a-day ; as an alterant, three; and for worms, three. 324. Purging pills.—Take of succotrine aloes, and Cas- tile soap, each two drachms; simple syrup, a sufficient quantity to make them into pills. Four or five of these pills will generally prove a suffici-