205 THE RECEIPT BOOK. RULES FOR MAKING WINES. 691. Mead.—To thirteen gallons of water, put thirty- pounds of honey, boil, and scum it well; take rosemary, thyme, bay-leaves, and sweet-briar, one handful all toge- ther; boil it an hour, put it into a tub, with a little ground malt; stir it till it is lukewarm; strain it through a cloth, and put it into the tub again; cut a toast, and spread it over with good yeast, and put it into the tub also, and when the liquor is covered over with yeast, put it up in a barrel; take of cloves, mace, and nutmegs, an ounce and a halt’; of ginger, sliced, an oxince: bruise some spice, tie it in a rag, and hang it in the vessel, stopping it up close for use. 692. Balm wine. Take a peck of balm leaves, put them in a tub; heat four gallons of water scalding hot; pour it upon the leaves, and let it stand all night: in the morn- ing strain it through a hair sieve; put to every gallon of water two pounds of fine sugar; and stir it well. Take the whites of five eggs ; put them into a pan, and whisk it very well before it be over hot; when the scum begins to rise, take it off, and keep it skimming all the while it is boiling; let it boil three-quarters of an hour, and then put it into the tub; when it is cold, put a little new yeast upon it, and beat it in every two hours, that it may head the better; work it for two days, put it into a sweet vessel, bung it close, and when it is fine, bottle it. 693. Birch ivinc.—-The season for procuring the liquor from the birch trees is in the beginning of March, while the sap is rising, and before the leaves shoot out; for, when the sap is become forward, and the leaves begin to appear, the juice, by being long digested in the bark, grows thick and coloured. The method of procuring the juice is by boring holes in the body of a tree, and putting in faucets, which is commonly made of the branches of elder, the pith being taken out; if the tree is large, tap it in several places at a time, and by that means save many gallons every day.