THE RECEIPT BOOK. 104 of dean parchment, cut into bits, and put it to soak in a quart of clean water for about twelve hours; boil the whole on a gentle tire, and in the beginning- take olf the scum with a spoon. The vessel must remain uncovered, and the liquor mint be stirred occasionally. After boiling- about an hour, take off the pot from the fire, and strain the liquor while hot, through a coarse sieve. The liquor must be again put over the fire, in a clean pot, and boiled till half is evaporated ; the remainder is then spread very thinly upon panes of g-lass, which being kept in a warm place for a day or two, the size will dry, and become very hard. When it is wanted for use, put a little of it in a cup of warm water, and dip the hair pencil in it. The properties of this glue, which render it superior to gum-water, are the following :—It does not deaden, nor alter the colours with which it is mixed: it does not crack like gum, and it is so soon hard, as not only to de- fend the colours from being affected by smoke, but even to bear the surface of the drawing, being eleanded by the means of a wet sponge. 368. Imitation of mother-of-pearl.—The imitation of mother-of-pearl is produced by a preparation of sea-shells reduced to powder, aud formed into a paste. The Chi- nese is said to form their imitations of mother-oi-pearl from rice glue, which is notliiug more than rice ground to an impalpable powder, mixed with cold water, and then boiled; a paste is thus produced, which may be formed into moulds or figures. 309. Method of cleanint; playing-cards— Nothing Soils sooner than playing-cards, and they are an expensne ar- ticle to replace' owing to the high duty they pay. The following method will be found to remove every thing from them but a stain, and will give the dirtiest pack the appearance of being new. Rub the soi ed card with a pieceof flannel and fresh butter, until the butter has cleaned off all the dirt. So soon as the dirt is removed, wipe off the butter with a clean rag ; and to restore the card to its former gloss, rub the surface sharply With a piece of flannel and flour; cut the edges neatly with a pair of seissars, and the operation is completed.