THE RECEIPT BOOK. 22 not be entirely eradicated with one application, try ano- ther in the same manner. At the same time, take some flower of sulphur, mixed with a little cream of tartar, in milk, beer, or treacle. Should there be more than one in the family, it is necessary that each apply the above quan- tity, and half the quantity for a child. 97. The artificial rainhoic.—Opposite a window into which the sun shines direct, suspend a glass globe, filled with clean water, by means of a string that runs over a pulley, so that the sun’s rays may fall on it. Then draw- ing the globe up, you will observe, by placing yourself in a proper situation, a purple colour in the glass; and by drawing it up gradually higher, the other prismatic colours, blue, green, yellow, and red, will successively appear; after which, the colours will disappear, till the globe is raised to about fifty degrees, when they will again appear, but in an inverted order, the red appearing first, and the blue or violet last; on raising the globe a little higher, they will totally vanish. 98. Curious experiment with the magic lantern.—The construction of this amusing optical machine is so well known, that to describe it would be superfluous; particu- larly as it can now be purchased very reasonable at any of the opticians; but as many persons who have a taste for drawing might not be pleased with many designs to be had at the shops, or might wish to indulge their fancy in a variety of objects, which to purchase would become ex- pensive ; we present our readers, in the first place, with the method of drawing them, which will be succeeded by a plain description of diverting experiments. 99. Of painting the glasses.—You first draw on a paper the size of the glass, the subject you mean to paint; fasten this at each end of the glass with paste, or any cement, to prevent it from slipping. Then with some very black paint mixed with varnish, draw with a fine camel’s hair pencil, very lightly, the outlines sketched on the paper, which are reflected through the glass. Some persons affirm that these outlines can be traced with japan writing