THE RECEIPT BOOK. 140 mueh as can be required. Without enumerating- the whole, I shall now describe those colours that are most ea- sily made, and most worn in spencers, shawls, pelisses, scans, bonnets, gowns, &c. beginning with light blue. 479. Light blue silk—Your silk being boiled in white soap and water, and made quite white, must be rinsed in warm water. Then, take a vessel of sufficient size to wash your goods m ; as for a small article a wash-hand bason, four into this some cold water, sufficient to cover your goods to the depth of two or three inches. Then drop from your chemic blue bottle, one or two drops; if the shade is to be azure blue, or pale blue, these will suffice ; but for a darker shade more must be used. Put in your goods and handle them from ten minutes to half an hour, as the shade requires; lift up now and then some of the dye, and letting it fall again, look through it as it falls, to see if the blue is expended, and then according to the colour of your dye-water, will be that of yoursifk. 480. False violet, pansy and colours bordering on pur- ple* Purples are made by giving them a first colour, in a yat, more or less full as you would have the shade to be, into a blood-warm water, pour a quantity of archil, from half a pint to a pint and a naif; and when this liquor is almost scalding hot, put in your goods and handle them well; and, by simmering them an hour or there abouts, you will have a pretty fine violet, or pansy, more or less full, according to the quantity of archil used : but if the colour requires to be darkened, add barilla, alkaline lye, or potash, which will sadden it. 481. To make a bright red icith the same ingredients. Instead of adding pearl-ash to your liquor, take out your goods, and put in half a wine g:lass of the solution of tin; stir it, put your goods in again, and boil them half an hour; take them out again and add half a pint more archil and as much more of the solution of tin ; put in your goods again, and boil them for ten minutes ; talce them out, and rinse in cold water. This last process will give them a fuller body. You will have a beautiful red rather more