27 THE RECEIPT BOOK. them into the vitriol (take care to set the bottle in a basin or glazed earthen pan, as it will ferment;) after it is quite dis- solved, provide an earthen or wooden vessel, so constructed that it will conveniently hold the veneers you mean to dye; fill it rather more than one third with water, into which pour as much of the vitriol and indigo (stirring it about) till you find the whole to be a fine blue dye, by trying it with a piece of white paper or wood ; put in your veneers ; let them remain till the dye has struck through. 108. To dye yelloiu.—Take of the roots of barberry four pounds, reduce it by sawing to dust, which put in a copper or brass trough, add four ounces of turmeric, to which put four gallons of water; then put in as many white holly veneers as the liquor will cover, boil them together for three hours, often turning them ; when cool add two ounces of aqua-fortis, and you will find the dye strike through much sooner. 109. To dye a bright green.—Proceed as before to pro- duce a yellow ; but instead of aqua-fortis add as much of the vitriolated indigo as will produce the desired colour. 110. For a bright red.—Take two pounds of genuine Bra- zil-dust, add four gallons of water, put in as many veneers as the liquor will well cover, boil them for three hours and let them cool; then add two ounces of alum and two ounces of aqua-fortis; and keep it luke-warm until it has struck through. 111. To dye a purple.—Take two pounds of chip logwood, half a pound of Brazil-dust, and add four gallons of water ; put in your veneers and boil them well, then add six ounces of pearl-ash and two ounces of alum ; let them boil two or three hours every day till you find the colour struck through. 112. To dye the silver grey.—Take a cast-iron pot of six or eight gallons, and from time to time collect old iron, nails, hoops, &c. &c. expose them to the weather in it until they are covered with rust, add one gallon of vinegar and two of water ; boil all well for an hour, then have your veneers ready, which must be of air-wood (not too dry) put them in the copper you