the receipt book. 125 dying and scouring. 439. To clean white lace veils.—Make a solution of white soap, in a clean saucepan ; put in your veil, and let it boil gently a quarter of an hour; take it out into a bason with some warm water and soap, and keep gently squeezing it till it is thoroughly clean ; then rinse it from the soap^and have ready a pan of cold water, in which put a drop of chemic or liquid blue; rinse the veil in this liquid, then take a tea-spoonful of starch, and pour boiling water upon it, run the veil through this, and clear it well, by clapping it between the hands ; frame it or pin it out, and keep the edges straight and even. 440. To clean black lace veils.—These are cleansed by passing them through a warm liquor of bullock’s gall and water; after which they must be rinsed in cold water, then cleansed for stiffening, and finished as follows. Take a small piece of glue, about the size of a bean, pour boiling water upon it, which will dissolve it; when dissolved, pass the veil through it: clap it between your hands and frame it as described in the preceding receipt. 441. Method of cleaning white, satin, silks, Sfc.—Make a solution of the finest white soap, and when at a hand heat, handle your silks through this, drawing them through the hand if they are such as will bear it. If any spots appear, which may be seen by holding the satin up to the light, such spots must be dipped in the liquor, and rubbed between the hand. Sometimes two or three liquors are required in this way. The things must then be rinsed in lukewarm water, then dried and finished by being pinned out, and flossy or bright side brushed with a clothes brush, the way of the nap. The more it is brushed,the more beautiful it appears. If you are near a calenderer your articles may be calendered; if not, finish them by dipping a spong-e into a little size, made by boiling isinglass in water, and rubbing the wrong' side. Your things must be pinned out a second time, and again brushed and dried near a fire. Silks are done L 3