THE RECEIPT BOOK. 167 ON DYEING WOOLLENS, STUFFS, GENTLEMEN’S AND LADIES’ CLOTHES ; AND DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING A WO AD YAT. 555. On the woad vat.—I will here give the process of the woad and other blue vats, as taken from the work of a very ingenious dyer. The process here laid down I have practised myself with the greatest success ; though (excepting the woad vat) the other blue vats, may be made fifty different ways/ always remembering that the cold vat is mixed with pearl-ash, green copperas, lime, madder, and bran. The hot vats are prepared either with water or urine ; if with water, pearl-ash and a small quantity of madder must be added : if with urine, alum aud tartar must be joined to the iudigo. Both of these vats being principally intended for wool, require a moderate degree of heat; but, at the same time, strong enough for the wool to take a lasting dye, such as will withstand the des- troying action of the sun and air. I beg here to observe, that the liquor of all vats appears green beneath the surface, as also do all woollen cloths, as soon as they come out. of any vat ; but, being exposed to the air, they will immediately turn blue ; and were it not so, the dye would not be lasting. 556. For a woman's Pelisse.—When your water in the cop- per boils, add from a quarter to half a pound of fustic, from two ounces to four of sumach, and from two to four ounces of logwood or more, as you require the shade to be ; but if it re- quires to be of a green brown, a.larger proportion of fustic and sumach must be used. Then the pelisse is to be taken out, and a little verdigris added : if the vei'digris does not green it enough, add logwood chips, as you require the colour to be deeper. Green copperas also will sadden this colour, and lime browns it. It is almost impossible to give the exact quantity for a gar- ment, as the goodness or badness of the drugs would in these colours cause so great an alteration, as not to resemble the co- lour intended. But a single trial will be sufficient to guide you. The article must be boiled as for brown ; but it often does not require above an hour, and may be saddened, or made darker, by copperas ; and, if the dyeing liquor does not draw