74 THE RECEIPT BOOK. twelve, and between the horizontal lines and diagonals, divided into halves, quarters, &c. On the handle C, and close to the g-lass, is fixed the style or hand, E Now, as the distance of the style from the flame of the lamp is only half an inch, then, if the distance of the frame from the style be six inches, w hile the float that contains the light descends by the decrease of the oil, one inch, the shadow of the style on the frame will ascend 12 inches, being its whole length, and showr, by its progression, the regular increase of the hours, with their several divisions. You must be careful always to burn the same oil, wRich must be the best; and the wdck must never vary in size; if these precautions are not attended to, the dial never can be accurate. i 264. Plain directions for the marbling of paper and book edges—We presume that the following instructions for the marbling ofpaper, will be of use to our readers generally. To bookbinders in country .towns, we know that they will be invaluable : and they must be serviceable to all others who have occasion to make use of marbled paper, and wish to have it cheap. These instruction are w ritten from the experience of years employed in the operations that they describe; and they contain more information relating to the subject then is to be obtained from any “ School of Arts,” or “Encyclopedia,” in the kingdom. 265. The first thing required is a wooden trough, made of inch deal, about one inch and threeforths in depth and half an inch in length and breadth larger then the sheets of paper there are to be marbled. This proportion between the size of the trough and paper should always be observ- ed, to prevent w'aste of colour; of course, troughs of vari- ous sizes will be required, where paper ot various sizes is to be marbled. The trough must be water-tight and ihe edo-es of the sides must be sloped or bevelled off on the outside, to prevent any drops oi colour w hich may fall on them, from running back again and sullying its contents. 206. A skimmer or clearing stick must be provided for each trough: this is apiece of wood, twro inches and a