176 THE RECEIPT BOOK. boiling*. A sponge must be dipped in this, and squeezed almost dry, and then rubbed reg-ularly all over the wrong side, and lastly, they should either be framod or pinned out. A small bit of pea'rl ash should be added to the isin- g-lass, or gum water, which will preserve its brightness. N. B. These blues of all shades are dyed with archil, and afterwards dipped in a vat: therefore cleaning with pearl ash restores the colour. There are some blues on silk, of a very light shade, thatjare dyed with chemic blue which will not clean. These may be distinguished by their not being* of a red cast, 574. Olive green.-v-There is a kind of dirty looking green, that may be cleaned much in the same manner, only no acid must be used ; or great care must be taken to use no more than a sufficiency of it to harden the water. But if the water used is of a hard nature, no acid will be wanted a small quantity of verdigris dissolved in water, or a drop or two of what is termed a solution of copper, mixed with water, will revive the colour again. 575. A method of cleaning chintz bed and window furni- ture, so as to preserve the gloss and beauty.—This will gene- rally answer where the cloth is not in a very dirty state:— Take two pounds of rice, boil it in two gallons of water till soft; put the whole into a tub; and when your liquor is at a hand heat, put in your chintz, and use the rice as you would soap.’ Then take the same quantity of rice and wa- ter, but when boiled, strain the rice from the water. Wash the chintz in this till it is quite clean : afterwards rinse it in the water, in which the rice was boiled, smooth it out with the hands; and hang it up to dry, then hub it with a sleeking stone, or glaze it, and it is finished. 866. The method practised by dyers is as follows: Clean the chintz by washing it or rather beating it with the doll in a tub of warm soap lather, at a hand heat: and, at last, either take flour or starch, and make it of the consis- tence of oil; the article is then beaten up in this; let it be opened well, that it may be smooth; dry in the air, and