210 the receipt kook. it oil into the vessel or cask; keep it a year in the vessel, and bottle it. 708. Mountain Wine.—Pick out the stalks of Malaga raisins, chop them small, and put five pounds to every gallon of cold spring water; let them steep a fortnight or more, squeeze out the liquor, and barrel it in a vessel with brimstone. Do not stop it close till the hissing is over. Put half-a-pint of French brandy to every gallon of wine. 709. Cherry fo-andy .—Take six dozen pounds of cher- ries, half red and half black, mash or squeeze them to pieces with your hands, and put to them three gallons of brandy, let them steep twenty -four-hours; put the mashed cherries and liquor, a little at a time, into a canvass bag, and press it as long as any juice will run; sweeten it to your taste ; put it into a vessel; let it stand a month, and bottle it off. Put a lump of loaf sugar into every bottle. 710. Shi'ub.—Take two quarts of brandy, the juice of five lemons, the peels of two, and a nutmeg; stop it up, let it stand three days, add to it three pints of white wine, and a pound and a half of sugar; mix it, strain it twice through a flannel, and bottle it up. 711. Fine Milk Punch.—Take two quarts of water, one quart of milk, half-a-pint of lemon-juice, and one quart of brandy, with sugar to your taste; put the milk and water together a little warm, then the sugar and lemon- juice ; stir it well together; then the brandy, stir it again, and run it through a flannel bag till it is very fine, and bottle it. It will keep a fortnight or more. 712. To recover Wine that has turned sharp.—Rack off your wine into another vessel, and to ten gallons put the following powder: take oyster-shells, scrape and wash off the brown dirty outside of the shells, and dry them in an oven till they will powder. Put a pound of this powder to every nine or ten gallons of wine; stir it well together, and stop it up; let it stand to settle two or three days, pr till it is fine. As soon as it is fine, bottle it off, and cork it well.