THE RECEIPT BOOK. ' 193 630. Crayfish soup.—Take three quarts of strong veal broth, made without herbs, the crumb of four French rolls, the meat of a lobster, and fifty crayfish pounded, with some live lobster spawn ; skin and rub it through a tamis cloth, season it with salt, and Cayenne pepper. Cut the crust of French bread into small round pieces when served up. 631 Oyster soup.—Take a pound of skaite, four flounders, and two pounds of eels ; cut them in pieces, season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, some parsley, and sweet herbs. Cover them with water, simmer for an hour and a half, and strain it off. Beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, with the hard part of a pint of oysters, in a mortar. Simmer all together for half an hour : have ready the yolks of six eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it on the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. Serve all together. 632 Eel soup.—To every pound of eels put a quart of water and a crust of bread, two or three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bundle of sweet herbs ; cover them close, and let them boil till half the liquor is wasted ; strain it, toast some bread, cut it small, put it in the dish, and pour in your soup ; set the dish over a stove for a minute, and send it to table hot. Should your soup not be rich enough, add a little brown gravy to it. 633 Mussel soup.—Boil them till they open, take them off, put them into another stewpan, then, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, some parsley, and sweet herbs, with some good gravy, let them simmer till reduced to one half. Add a liaison, and serve it up hot. 634 Milk soup.—With cinnamon boil a quart of milk, two bay leaves, and moist sugar; put some sippets in a dish, pour the milk over them, and set the whole over a charcoal fire to simmer till the bread is soft; take the yolks of two eggs, beat them up, and mix them with a little of the milk, and throw it in ; mix it altogether, and serve it up. 14