THE RECEIPT BOOK. 127 445. For dipping black silks when they appear rusty, or the colour faded.—For a silk dress, your own discretion must be used, whether the silk can be roused, or whether it requires to be redyed. Should it require redying-, this is done as follows: for a g-own, boil two ounces of log-wood ; when boiled half an hour, put in your silk, and simmer it half an hour: take it out, and add a piece of blue vitriol as big- as a pea, and a piece of green cop- peras as big- as the half of a horse bean ; when these are dissolved, cool down the copper with cold water, and put in your silk, and simmer half an hour, handling- it over with a stick; wash and dry in the air, and finish as above. If only wanting- to be roused, pass it through spring wa- ter, in -which is half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol. Han- dle in this five minuteB, rinse in cold water, and finish. 446. Of silks stained by corrosive or sharp liquors.—We often find that lemon juice, vinegar, oil of vitriol, and other sharp corrosives, stain dyed garments. By adding a little pearl-ash to a soap lather, and passing the silks through these, the faded colour will be restored. Pearl- ash and wrarm water will do alone, but it is the best me- thod to use the soap lather and pearl-ash together. 447. To clean silk stockings.—Wash them in soap and water: and then, either into a tin or copper boiler, cut an ounce of white soap into thin slices, and, putting the stockings in, boil them ten minutes; take them out and rinse them in cold water. If they are to be of a blue cast take one drop of liquid blue, put it in a pan of spring w-ater, run the stockings through this, and dry them in the air. If they are to be of a pink cast, drop one or two drops of the saturated pink dye into a pan ot water, and run them through this instead of the ehemic blue. If they are designed to have a flesh colour, a little rose pink is used in a thin soap liquor. All silk stockings, black excepted, are to be rubbed with a clean flannel, and sent to be calendered or mangled. 448. The mode of extracting grease spots from silk, co- loured muslins, fyc.— Take trench chalk, finely scj-aped.