113 THE RECEIPT BOOK. For the extraction of pulps.it will be necessary to boil un- ripe fruits, and ripe ones, if they are dried, in a small quantity of water till they become soft. The pulp is then to be pressed i out through a strong hair sieve, or thin cloth, and afterwards boiled to a due consistence, in an earthen vessel, over a gentle fire, taking care to prevent the matter from burning by conti- nually stirring it. The pulps of fruit that are both ripe and fresh may be pressed out without any previous boiling. 393. Lenitive electuary.—Take of senna, in fine powder eight ounces; coriander seed, also in powder, four ounces, pulp of tamarinds and of French prunes, each a pound ; mix the pulps and powders together, and, with a sufficient quantity of simple syrup, reduce the whole into an, electuary. A tea-spoonful of this electuary, taken two or three times a day, generally proves an agreeable laxative. It likewise serves as a convenient vehicle for exhibiting more active medicines ; as jalap, scammony, and such like. This may supply the place of the electuary of Cassina. 394. Electuary for the dysentry.—Take of the Japonic confection, two ounces ; Locatell’s balsam, one ounce ; rhu- barb, in powder, half an ounce : syrup of marshmallows, enough to make an electuary. It is often dangerous in dysentries to give opiates and astringents, without interposing purgatives. The purgatives is here joined with these ingredients, which renders this a very safe and useful medicine for the purposes expressed in the title. About the bulk of a nutmeg should be taken twice or thrice a day, as the symptoms and constitution may require. 395. Electuary for the epilepsy.—'Take of Peruvian bark, in powder, an ounce; of powdered tin, and wild valerian- root, each half an ounce ; simple syrup enough to make an electuary. Dr. Mead directs a drachm of an electuary similar to thi(s to be taken evening and morning, in the epilepsy, for the space of three months, it will be proper, however, to discon- tinue the use of it for a few days every now and then. I have • K 3