208 THE RECEIPT BOOK. twelve pounds ot white sugar, and six pounds of raisins ol the sun cut small: boil these together an hour, then take of the flowers of elder when they are falling, and will shake off, the quantity of half a peck, put them in the liquor when it is almost cold ; the next day put in six spoonsful of syrup of lemons, and four spoonsful of ale- yeast ; two days after, put it in a vessel; when it has stood two months, bottle it. 702. British Madeira.—Put one bushel of good malt into a tub, and pour upon it eleven gallons of boiling wa- ter, after stirring them together, cover the vessel over, and let them stand to infuse for three hours, strain off the li- quor through a hair sieve, dissolve in it three pounds and a half of sugar candy, and ferment it with yeast in the usual manner. After fermenting three days during which lime the yeast is to be skimmed off three or four times a day, pour the clear liquor into a clean cask, and add the following articles mixed together:—French bran- dy, two quarts; raisin wine, five pints; and red port two bottles ; stir them together, and let the cask, be well bung- ed, and kept in a cool place for ten months, when it will be fit to bottle. This wine will be found superior to the Cape Madeira, and after having been kept in the bottle twelve months, wil be found not inferior to East India Madeira. Good table beer may be made with the malt after it has been infused for malting this wine. 703. British Port fVine.—Take of British grape wine, or good cider, four gallons, recent juiceof red elderber- ries, one gallon; brandy, tw'o quarts; logwood, four oun- ces; rhatany root (bruised) half a pound. First infuse the logwood and rhatany root in the brandy, and a gallon of the grape wine or cider, for one week; then strain off the liquor, and mix it with the other ingredients. Keep it in a cask well bunged for a month, when it will be fit to bottle. 704. British Sherry.—Take of pale ale wort, made as directed for British Madeira, four gallons ; of pure water, seven gallons; of white sugar sixteen pounds, boil them to- gether for about three quarters of an hour,, skimming it; pour it into a clean tub, and dissolve in it four pounds ot sugar-candy, powdered— ferment with yeast for three or