40 THE RECEIPT ROOK. cinnamon water; or, if that cannot be immediately had, in the best brandy. This will seldom fail to give instant re- lief ; but should it so fail in the first instance, it may be repeated in about an hour. 164. Macaroni cordial.—This favourite French liqueur is very little known in England. The secret of making it is, even in France, confined to few persons. We have, with difficulty, obtained the genuine receipt, which is as follows: Infuse, for fourteen days, in nine pints of brandy one pound of bitter almonds, with a small quantity of Bohemian or Spanish angelica root beaten together; sha- king frequently the vessel which contains all these ingre- dients. At the end of that time, place the whole contents in a curbit; and, distilling in a water bath, five pints of spirit thus impregnated with the flavour of the almonds and angelica, make a symp with five pounds of sugar, two quarts of eau de-mille-fleurs, and three quarts of distilled water. This being mixed with the spirits, add thirty drops of the essence of lemon; then filter it through blotting paper. This operation is readily performed; and the liquor, having once passed through, becomes a delici- ous cordial, of brilliant clearness; charming, at the same time, both the taste and sight. 165. Blackman's celebrated oil colour cakes for artists. The following is the process, as described in the transac- tions of the Society of Arts.—Take four ounces of gum mastich, and a pint of spirits of turpentine; mix them to- f ether in a bottle, stirring them often, till the mastich be issolved. Where haste is required, some heat may be applied, but the solution is better when made cold. Let the colours be the best you can get; taking care that,by washing. See. they are brought to the greatest degree of fineness. When the colours are dry, grind them on a hard close stone, for which purpose porphyry is best, in spirits of' txirpentine, adding a small quantity of the mastich var- nish. Let the colours so ground become again dry, then prepare, in the following manner, the composition for Forming them into cakes; procure some of the purest sper- maceti, melt it in a clean earthen vessel, over a gentle fire, and when fluid, adding one third its weight of poppy oil,