134 THE RECEIPT BOOK. a variety of hues, or colours almost to infinity. From yel- low, blue, and brown, are made the goose dung, and olives of all kinds. From brown, blue, and black, are produced the brown olives. From the red, yellow, and brown are derived the orange, the gold colour, feuille- mort or faded leaf, dead carnations, cinnamon, fawn, and tobacco, by using three, or two of the colours, as required. From yellow, red, and black, browns are made. From blue and yellow, greens of all shades. From red and blue, purples of all kinds are formed. 464. The names of the principal dyeing drugs, and the current prices, averaged for seven years together.—From these an accurate idea maybe formedaa to the expence of dyeing each garment, which will not exceed one-eighth of the charge made by a dyer. Thus it will be seen, that eight garments may be dyed and redyed at the expence charged by the trade for one. A dyer charges from three shillings and sixpence to five shillings and sixpence for cleaning a lady’s pelisse; whereas, done at home, the charge will not exceed sixpence; namely, twopence for bulldck’s gall, or if of alight colour, a quarter of a pound of soap, two pence, and pressing as before. The names of the principal dyeing materials are alum, argol, or tar- tar, green copperas, verdigris, blue vitriol, roch alum, American or quercitron, and oak bark, fenugreek, log- wood, old and young fustic, Brazilwood, braziletto, cam- wood, barwood, and other red woods, peach wood, su- mach, galls, weld, madder, of three or four sorts, safflowr- ers, savory, green wood, arnatto, tumeric, archil, cudbear, cochineal, lac cake, lac dye, and indigo. Brazil wood is about flne shilling and sixpence per pound, sumach five- pence, other woods from twopence to three pence per f>ound, safflower one shilling and sixpence to two sail- ings, cudbear two shillings, and archil tenpence. ON THE EFFECTS OF VARIOUS SALTS OR MORDANTS ON COLOURS. 465. Remarks on the dye of madder.’— For a madder red