5T THE RECEIPT BOOK. then pressing1 it between sheets of blotting-paper, to pre- vent its shrivelling- up while g-etting- dry ; it will gener- ally, when it has nearly approached that state, be found to have resumed its original colour, and appear perfectly plain, but should the characters not prove legible on its becoming1 moderately dry the operation must be repeated as often as it may be necessary.—The following1 mixture, it is asserted, will make writing1 which has been obliter- ated, faded, or sunk, either on paper or on parchment, immediately legible—Bruise two or three nutgalls, infuse them in half a pint of wine, and let the bottle stand for two days in the sun or any other equally warm situation: then wash the part of the parchment or paper which is wanted to have the writing recovered, by means of a sponge or soft brush dipped in the vinous infusion; and the purpose will be immediately answered if it be suffici- ently strong. Should that not happen, its powers must be increased by an additional quantity of galls; and perhaps, in some cases, stronger heat, and even stronger wine, may also be necessary. 210. Japan varnish.—Take spirits of wine a pint, gum lac four oz., which must be thus cleansed. Break it first from the stick, &c. and then roughly concuss it in a mortar; put it to steep in clear water, tied up in a bag of coarse linen, with a small piece of the best Castile soap, for twelve hours ; then rub out all the tincture from it; to which add a little alum, and reserve it apart. The gum lac remain- ing in the bag with one ounce of sandrach, (some add as much mastick and white amber,) dissolve it in a mattras or mndlet, well stopped, with the spirits of wine; by two days' disgestion, often agitating it, it will not adhere to the sides of the vessel: then strain it, and press it into a less vessel, and keep it for use, which will be lasting, if well stopped. 211. Syrup of ginger.—An agreeable and moderately aromatic syrup, impregnated with the flavour and medi- cinal virtues of ginger, is thus prepared:—Macerate an ounce and a half of beaten ginger in a quart of boiling water, closely covered up, for twenty four hours; then, straining off the infusion, make it into a syrup, by adding at least two parts of fine loaf sugar, dissolved and boiled up m a hot water bath.