68 THE RECEIPT BOOK. shade them to fancy, or from the drawing1 you have by you, and then mixing1 any colour you choose with white copal varnish, you may vary your ground as you please But the most important secret in the g-lass gliding-, is the method which only two or three persons in London are acquainted with ; in an instant after your glass is blacked, taking away the parts wdiere your gold is to appear,and the remainder part of the black to stand fast by which means the black gliding work is done in one half the time, and with hall the gold leaf. The process is simple, and is thus performed ;—You are to get the very best black japan varnish, such as is used for the root’s of carriages, to which you must add a very small share of burned lamp-black, very finely ground in spi- rits of Turpentine, then, with a flat varnish brush, give your glass one even thin coat, holding it between you and the light, observing that it does not appear a thick dead black, but exhibits a degree of transparency, and not too much so, as to prevent its appearing a good black at the right side of the glass. After this, you are to have your letters, or ornaments drawn on paper, as before mentioned, and trace it in the same manner on your black varnish, when it is perfectly dry; the drawing will be very critically transferred to the black. You are then to get a fine needle, and fix it in a wooden handle, firmly, with which yon are to scribe the outlines, of what black is to come out, through the varn- ish, so as not an edge hangs to the main body of the black. Then take some thick brown paper, dip it in water, and squeeze it gently, and spread it over the parts of the var- nish you want to detach from the glass, and in a few mi- nutes, by raising one edge of the black, it w ill peel awray fis clean from the glass as if it never was on it in an instant. When all the black you wrant is taken out, lay your glass to the fire, and the remaininig part of the varnish, Will in- stantly become hard, and ready to have the gold put on. 240. To engrave figures on glass.—Cover one side of a flat piece of glass, aier having made it perfectly clean, with bee’s wax, and trace figures upon it with a needle, taking care that every stroke cuts completely through the wax. Next, make a border of wax all round the glass to prevent any liquid when poured on from running off. Now take