THE RECEIPT BOOK. 128 and put it on the grease-sjpot, holding1 it near the fire, or over a warm iron reversed, or on a water plate, in which is boiling- water. This will cause the grease to melt, and the French chalk will absorb it, and it may then be brushed off. If any grease remains, proceed as before. The French chalk is a fine powder, and of a dry quality, acting upon silks as Fuller’s earth does upon woollen. 449. Method of taking out the spots of paint, or other solid substances, from cloths, silks, fyc.—Supposing a small quantity of paint had dropped on a coat, a pen should be dipped in spirit of turpentine, and its contents dropped on the paint spot, in a quantity sufficient to discharge the oil and gluton that is mixed with the paint. Let it rest several hours, that it may penetrate and suck up the oil: and when it has done this, take the cloth between your hands, and rub it; the paint spot will then crumble away like dried earth. The turpentine will not injure the cloth. If the spots be numerous, apply the spirit of turpentine over the silk, &c. with a sponge, as soon as possible after the oil or paint, &c. has been spilt upon it, and before it is become dry : by these means it may in general be com- pletely washed out. 450. To prevent scarletcloth from being stained black.— As all corrosive, vitriolic, or salt liquors stain this colour, as the dirt of the streets, the dropping of houses, &c. and as these contain a vitriolic property, when any spots of this nature appear upon your return home, wash them out in a little spring water, in which a dust of tartar has been thrown, and it will extract the filth, and leave no manner of satin. 451. For cleaning thin cottons, as gowns Scc.-~Instead of rubbing the soap on the cottou, make a solution of soap and put in your goods; then wash them as a washer- woman would. The benefit resulting from the difference of procedure is, that the cottons are cleaned all over in an equal begree, which ts not the case when the soap is rub- bed on the body of the cotton: for then we often find soap in the pores of the cotton, which prevents such parts from