24 THE RECEIPT BOOK. of a button, which will become hard when the burning' matter round it is consumed ; the shell will have sustained very little injury. 102. Luminous liquor.—Put a little phosphorus with es- sence of cloves, into a bottle, which must be kept closely stopped. Every time the bottle is unclosed, the liquor will appear luminous. This experiment must be in the dark. 108. The burnt writing restored.—Cover the outside of a small memorandum book with black paper, and in one of its inside covers make a flap, to open secretly, and ob- serve there must be nothing- over the flap but the black paper that covers the book. Mix soot with black or brown soap, and rub the side of the black paper next the flap; wipe it clean, so that a white paper pressed against it will not receive any mark. Provide a black lead pencil that will not mark without pressing hard on the paper. Have a small box, about the size of a memorandum book, and that opens on both sides but on one of them by a private method. Give a person the pencil and a slip of tlnn paper, on which lie is to write what he thinks proper; you present him the book, at the same time, that lie may not write on the bare board, l on tell him to keep what he writes to himself, and direct him •to burn it on an iron plate, laid on a chafing dish ot coals, and give you the ashes. You then go into another room to fetch your magic box, before described, and take with vou the memorandum book. 5 Having previously placed a paper under the flap in the cover of the book, when he presses hard with the pencil, to write on his paper, every stroke, by means ot the stuff rubbed on the black paper, will appear on that under the flap. You take it out, and put it into one side of t^ box. ki then return to the other room, and taking a slip of Wini.n *er vou put it into the other side of the box, strewimMhe ashe^of the burnt paper over it. Then shak - ino- the'box for a few moments, at the same time turning it 'dexterously over, you open the other side, and shew tin petnX paper vl fir«j put in, the tvrmng on »h,A he will readily acknowledge to be his.