206 THE RECEIPT ROOK. If you do not use it immediately, in order to keep it in a good condition for brewing, and that it may not turn sour till you have got the quantity you want, the bottle in which it dropt from the faucets must be close stopped, and the cork waxed or rosined. Clear your birch with white of eggs; to every gallon of liquid take two pounds and a half of fine white sugar; boil it three quarters of an hour, and when it is cold, put in it a little yeast; work it two or three days, then put it into the barrel, and to every five gallons, add a quart of brandy, and half a pound of stoned raisins. Before you tun your wine, burn a brimstone match in the barrel. 694. Apricot wine.—Take three pounds of sugar, three quarts of water, boil them together, and skim it well; put in six pounds of apricots pared and stoned, and let them boil till they are tender; after you have taken out the apricots, let the liquor have one boil, with a sprig of flowrer clary in it. The apricots make marmalade, and are very good for present using. 695. Damson wine.—Gather your damsons dry, wfeigh them, and bruise them; put them into an earthen pan that has a faucet; add to every eight pounds of fruit a gallon of water; boil the water, skim it, and pour it on your fruit; let it stand two days; draw it off, and put it into a vessel fit for it, and to every gallon of liquor put two pounds and a half of fine sugar, let the vessel be full, and stop it close: the longer it stands the better; it will keep a year in the vessel; bottle it off. Put a small lump of refined sugar in each bottle. 696. Quince wine.—Take your quinces when they are thorough ripe, wipe off the fur very clean, take out the cores, bruise them, and press them, adding to every gallon of juice two pounds and a half of fine sugar; stir it toge- ther till it is dissolved, put it in your cask, and when done working, stop it close; let it stand six months before bot- tled. Keep it two or three years, and it will be the better.