THE RECEIPT BOOK. and its commonly tedious: duration, may be obviated and shortened by the following- remedy—Mix well tog-ether half an ounce each of spirit of hartshorn and oil of amber ; with which plentifully anoint the palms of the hands, the Sit of the stomach, the soles ot‘ the feet, the arm-pits, and le back bone, every morning and evening for a month, suffering no water to come near the parts thus anointed, though the fingers and backs of the hands may be wiped with a damp cloth. It should be rubbed in near the fire, and care used to prevent taking cold. It is best to make only the above quantity at a time; because, by frequently opening the bottle, much of the virtue will be lost, ft should be kept in a glass stopper bottle. Indeed, the harts- lumi is always thus kept by the faculty; and. where it forms so large a part of the mixture, the necessity of pre- venting its effluvia from escaping is equally great. These precautions taken, its use will seldom fail to be attended with success : frequently in a much shorter time than it is judged prudent to advise its being continued, as it can never do the smallest injury even to the tenderest infants. 195. Art of extracting carmine powdet from shreds of scarlet cloth.—That incomparable crimson colour, called carmine, which so beautifully participates in the most de- licate tints of scarlet and of purple, is so very expensive, that miniature painters are otten induced to substitute for carmine a composition of lake; by the following process, it is credibly asserted, that a better carmine may be ma- nufactured than much of what is imported from France— Take five or six gallons of the purest water, and dissolve in it a sufficient quantity of pot-ash to make a strong ley. After having filtered the solution, put it in a brass pot, and boil in it a pound of the clean shreds or clippings ot the finest scarlet broad cloth dyed in gn-ain, till they have entirely lost their colour; then squeeze the shreds, and pass all the ley through a flannel bag. Dissolve twro pounds of alum in a proper quantity of water, and add this solution to the ley; stir them well together, and the whole will become thick. It is then to be repassed through the flannel bag, and the liquor will run out clear; but, if it be at all tinged, it is to be again boiled, with a little alum, and passed through the bag a third time, when all the carmine