37 THE RECEIPT BOOK. into the bottle you mean to keep it in for use, weakening it if required, with pure filtered river water. 472. A cold indigo vat for silks, woollens, fyc. (Freneh method.)—Take four pounds of East India indigo, well pounded and sifted, put them into one gallon of vinegar, which must be set over a slow fire, twenty four hours to dissolve. At the expiration of this time, if the indigo is not dissolved, pound it in a mortar, with the liquor, adding now and then a little urine; afterwards put into it half a pound of the best madder. Mix these well and pour them into a deal eask, containingsixty gallons of urine; mix well again, and stir them well morning and night for eight days, till the liquor is green, and, when stirred pro- duces froth like other vats. It may then be worked; always stirring it before. This vat remains good till the dyeing matter is exhausted, and will dye sillcs blue by dipping them in warm water, and putting them in the vat for a longer or shorter time as the colour may require. Deep purples and mazarine blues must first pass through archil and hot water, then in the vat, and then in the archil, and so proceed till you have obtained the desired colour. A vat is generally made of half a wine cask, 'cleanly planed out, and well washed in clean soap suds. 473. To prepare the sour water used in dying scarlet and reds of all kinds on silk, cottons and woollens.—To make fifteen gallons of sour water, boil the same quantity of clear river water, and pour it into a tub upon a peck oi wheaten bran. Let the liquor rest that night, but stir it next morn- ing and so continue to do four or five times a day. The tub should be put in the sun, if it be in the summer, as the water will then turn quicker. Lime water is often used : a lump of lime should be immersed in water. When it cracks or falls to pieces it should be taken out and put into a boiler and boned half an hour; keep this lime-liquor for use. 474. An indigo blue vat, after the English method.— Take from three to four pounds of the East India indigo, from two to three pounds of ^earl ash, and from five to six