110 TIIE RECEIPT BOOK. described will dissolve more copal than the'menstruum will re- tain when cold ; the most economical method will therefore be to set the vessel which contains the solution by, for a few days, and when it is perfectly settled*, to pour off the clear varnish, and leave the residuum for a future operation. 384. To illuminate the surface of ihe icater.—Wet a lump of fine loaf sugar, with phosphorized ether, and throw it into a bason of water: the surface of the water will become lumin- ous in the dark, and by gently blowing upon it, phosphorescent undulations will be be formed, which illuminate the air above the fluid to a considerable distance. In winter the water must be rendered blood-warm. If.the phosphorized ether be applied to the hand, or other warm objects (which may be done with safety,) it renders them luminous in the dark. 385. To beautif / glass, $c.—Spread on a plate of glass or smooth slate, a few dropsof nitrate of silver, previously diluted with double its quantity of soft water ; place at the bottom of it, flat upon the glass, and in contact with the fluid, a copper or zinc wire, bent to any figure, and let the whole remain uu- disturbed in a horizontal position. In a few hours a brilliant crystallization of metallic silverwill makeits appearance around the wire upon the glass, and this arrangement of crystals will extend gradually till the whole quantity of fluid has been acted on by the wire. 386. To preserve fruit and flowers the whole year, with- out spoiling-—Mix one pound of i itre with two pounds of bole armontacj and three pounds of clean common sand , then in dry weather, take fruit of any sort, which is not fully ripe, allowing the stalks to remain, and put them one by one into an open glass, till it is quite full; cover the glass with oiled cloth tied closely down. Put it three or four inches down in the earth, in a dry cellar, and surround it on all sides to the depth of three or four inches with the above mixture, The fruit wili thus be preserved quite fresh all the year round. 387. Chemical change in a fair lady's complexion. It is well known .that white oxide of bismuth, under the name of