THE RECEIPT BOOK. m g-laze it. Should the colour fade in washing, that is the red and green, it will be necessary to give the goods a drop of vitriol in water after rinsing, this stays the colour, 577. For scouring thick cotton ; as counterpanes, quilts, c.—Cut a pound of mottled soap into thin slices, put it into a pan with a quarter of an ounce of pot-asli, and one ounce of pearl-ash; then pour a pail ol boiling water on it, let it stand till it is quite dissolved ; then pour hot and cold water into your scouring tub, with a bowl of your solution of soap. Put in your counterpane, and beat it well out with a doll, often turning the counterpane over in the tub. When this is done, wring it across a gallows or a hook, which is done .by turning the two opposite ends round each other, and putting- a small clean stick between them. By this method you may wring it as dry as possi- ble, the harder'without injuring it the better. Having given it this first liquor, you may put in some old cottons or woollens, that the liquor may not be thrown away, and then give your counterpane a second liquor as before. Wring it out again, and rinse it in cold water ; then pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water into your tub, with a small quantity of the solution of soap, so that you will re- duce it to a very thin lather. Put three teaspoonsful of li- quid blue into the tub, and the acid of the liquid blue and the alkali ef the pearl-ash and the soap lye will cause a slight fermentation; stir this blue liquor with a stick, and put in your counterpane; beat it out with a doll about five minutes, which will colour the counterpane of a fine blue, of the lightest shade : but as it dries in the wind, the blue mostly goes oft', and leaves a brilliant white. • N. B. In some cases, where the cottons are very brown and bad, it is necessary, instead of the last of these three liquors being poured into the tub, that it should be thrown into the copper, and the cottons putin and boiled an hour. When taken out, return them into a tub with some cold wa- ter, and add the before mentioned quantity of cliemic blue; and dry the articles in the air. 578. For cleaning scarlet cloth.—When these things are