171 THE RECEIPT BOOK. p 2 boils, add a quarter of a pound of the best Cam-wood, three ounces of sumach, a quarter of a pound of logwood, and from half a pound to a pouud of the best purple archil; if you should want it of a deeper blue, add more arbhil : a small lump of pearl-ash or blue vitriol purples it. If required to be of the red cast, some dyers use either a small quantity of oil of vitriol in the copper, or they pass the article through oil of vitriol, in warm water, after it is dyed. But to prevent any occasion for this, be sparing of your archil, and use no pearl-ash. I dyed upwards of seventy pelisses in one season after the above method. You may proportion your ingredients to the colour required. Cam-wood, as I have before observed, gives a red Ibrown; sumach a greenish grey brown • ar.chil a blue voilet,; and logwood nearly the same colour; handle well, and boil one hour and a half; then wash and dry. 593. A pretty red brown, remarkably bright; and the cost of the dye not more than sixpence.—For a middle sized woman’s pelisse; when your copper boils, put in the following dyeing materials: Half a pound of ground cam-wood 2 ounces of sumach (ground). 1 ounce of logwood chips. 1 ounce of alder bark. 2 ounces of chipped fustic. N. B. A larger quantity of ingredients may be used, but they must be in the same proportion as mentioned in this re- ceipt. When these ingredients have boiled half an hour, cool your copper by throwing in a pint of cold water ; put in your goods and boil from one hour to an hour and a half; take them out, and add from half an ounce to one ounce of green coppefas, according as you wish the colour to be darker. Lastly, adding a tea-spoonful of powdered argol, take out your goods, and rinse them in one or two clean waters, and hang it in the air to dry ; send them to the press to be finished. 5f>4. To dye woollen stuffs black.—The process of dyeing black, is one of the most tedious, on account of the time it takes which is at least ten hours.