61 THE RECEIPT BOOK. 220. Epsom salts.—To form the sulphate of magnesia, commonly known by the name of epsom salts. Take a quantity of common mag-nesia, and saturize it with dil- uted sulphuric acid foil of vitriol with water.)—filter the solution, and chrystalize the salt by concentrating the solution, and then allowing it to cool. 221. To distinguish the solution of Epsom salts, from that of oxalic acid.—1st Taste a single drop of the solution, if it is Epsom salts it is bitter, if oxalic acid extremely sour. 2nd. Pour a little tincture of litmus into the solution, if it is a solution of Epsom salts, the blue colour of the litmus in it will be unchanged.—If oxalic acid, the blue will be turned to red. 3rd. A few drops of black ink being thrown into it,if it is Epsom salts it appears rather purple, if on the con- trary it is oxalic acid, it will change to a reddish colour. 4th. Oxalic acid, when dropped into water, makes a cracking noise,—Epsom salts does not. N. B. If the above remarks are attended to, no mis- take can possibly occur, by taking the poison (oxalic acid) instead of Epsom salts. 222. To crylallise Tin.—After cleaning away every extraneous matter, as dirt or grease, with warm soapy water, rinse your tins in clean water ; then, after dry- ing it, give it a heat to the temperature of bare suffer- ance to the hand, and expose it to the vapour of anv acid that acts upon tin, or the acid itself may be poureS on, or laid on with a brush, the granular crystallization varying according to the strength of the wash, and the heat ol' your plates . Hence it must be perceived, what- ever quantity is reqifired for any particular job, should be made all at one time ; no two makings coming away alike, but depending entirely upon accident. Wash 1. Take one part by measure of sulphuric acid, and dilute it with five times as much water. 2. Take of nitric acid and water, equal quantities, and keep the two mixtures seperate. Then, take of the first ten parts, and one part d? the second ; mix, and apply the same with a pencil or sponge