A* «w .m « J' jr #1/ 1OUTLINES or COMPARATIVE ANATOMY.t <_ vn.trno ■ /y 1 ifA » r < MtT JLT ’i * > « jrt ,' -1- . ...ir iK^ Y i/ ()T> / A. 3 V n / il / 4 wr> ) ■ / ' • / Y' '1<I« A. Vi 1:.)‘ ,'^Vi. i T , '.-I ' I ■i, • Hih; V »;«!'« MMUiw • < <V’» 4 ••♦ ' • * ' '• » W K<,' j«*«ort 4VtA ■>?; V >♦ It . . SOUTLINES OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. INTENDED PRINCIPALLY FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS. By ANDREW FYFE. EDINBURGH Printed by J. Pillans ^ Son, FOR ADAM BLACK, SOUTH BRIDGE STREET, EDINBURGH AND THOMAS UNDERWOOD, 32. FLEET STREET,' AND 40. WEST SMITHFIEtD, lONDON. 1818.i I I 1 I ' !ADVERTISEMENT. The Author thinks it necessary to acknow- ledge here, that much of the information con- tained in the following Outlines is derived from modern Zootomists, particularly Blu- MENBACH and Cuvier, whose works deserve to be carefully perused by every one, who proposes to make Comparative Anatomy a particular object of pursuit.r » ^ \ 4 •« ■) Sr r 1 r r nr V O n/. ?■ ♦ ... — » •- ^ yv • • • • • > 1 on lit' 3tlT ftv.rOI.rU'•'■ *i‘ i ' 1 i' / - • 1 1*. T^b' ' *»• 1 ' .' . ' •’ .!) ni Jjpniii.* ihVi A •Hr)'’}.',- t/ ' >N r;^ ' f rnoil ’ ■ / -‘..V • .; -I <>vnr 2? ■■:>•!'■.. • ♦ ie M /,rro v 1 •'1 L•••MI'7^ » * , M 'n i ''fr'T / / 1 • • - , .-fi fH (f. . - V . f »*^4 ‘<PAj'k • * • ’V i4r *C' tl •*- . ■ - • -1 ' •• . . i « ■..mM ^ . i'. . . - Ro ^ . j- , . - «< »> . — * V. W^^O ■'^:; •• ',ifn jiHT no '“p . „*T* t ■■——■“■■ U' • J *CONTENTS. \ PART I. OF MAMMALIA. Pag. Of the Bones in General, - - 35 Skeleton, _ - - 36 Bones of the Head, - - 37 Os Hyoides, - - 42 Trunk, - - - 43 Anterior Extremities, - - 50 Posterior Extremities, - - 55 Of the Muscles, - - - 59 Muscles of the Anterior Extremities, 67 ——— Muscles of the Posterior Extremities, 70 Common Integuments, - 74 Brain, - - - 84 Of the Cerebral Nerves, - - 89 Cf the Spinal Marrow and Vertebral Nerves, 91 Of the Eye, - - - , 92 Ear, - - 99 OiS CONTENTS. Pag. Of the Nose, - Mouth and Throat, with their Appen- dices ^ Lips, - - ib. Tongue, - - ib. Salivary Glands, - - Throat, - - - 119 Teeth, ^ - 121 Heart and Blood-vessels, - 132 Arsorbents, - 138 Larynx, &c. - - I'll Lungs, - - - I'l'^ Stomach, - - 149 Intestines, - - 156 Liver, Pancreas, and Spleen, - 166 Liver, - - - ib. Pancreas, 169 Spleen, - - - 170 Omentum, - - 171 — Kidneys, - - 172 Renal Glands, - - 174 Bladder, - - 175 Male Organs ^Generation, - 177 Testes, - - ib. Penis, - - 182 Female Organs ^Generation, - 188 Gravid Uterus, - - 191 Fietus, and Organs which nourish it Jbr some time after Delivery, - 195 PART I9 CONTENTS. PART II. OF BIRDS. / Pag. Or THE Bones, _ _ - 198 Muscles, - - 205 Integuments, - - 210 Brain, &c. - - 214 Nerves, - - 216 Eye, - - 217 Ear, - - - 222 -- Nose, - - 224 Mouth, Throat, &c. - 226 Tongue and Salivary Glands, - ih. Heart and Blood-vessels, - 229 . Absorbent System, - ' 230 Organs ^ Voice Respiration, 232 - Alimentary Canal, - 238 Granivorous Birds, ^ - ih. Carnivorous Birds, - - 241 — ■■ ■ Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera, 244 Liver, - - ih. Spleen, - - • 245 Pancreas, - - 246 Kidneys, - - ih. Renal Glands, - - 247 Male Organs of Generation, - ih. Female Organs of Generation, 249 FART /CONTENTS. 10 PART III. OF REPTILES. Pa^\ Of the Bones, - - - 256 M usct.es, - - 261 Integuments, - - 265 Ijhain, - - - 267 Eye, . - . 270 Ear, - - - 271 Nose, _ _ - 273 Mouth, _ _ - 274 Heart and Blood-vessels, - 276 Principal Blood-vessels, - 278 Veins, - - - 279 Absorbents, - - 280 — Organs o/'Voice and Respiration, 282 Alimentary Canal, - 285 I.TVER, Pancke.as, and Spleen, - 287 Liver, _ _ _ il), Puncreaa, _ _ _ 288 Spleen, - - 289 Kidneys. - _ _ iJj, Male Organs ^Generation, - 291 Organs ^Apprehension, - 293 Female Organs ^Generation, ib. PART IV. OF FISHES. Oe the Bones, - - - 296 lUl’SCLEc. - - 800CONTENTS. 11 Pag. Of the Integuments, - - 301 ■ ■ ■ Brain, '&c. _ _ _ 304 Eye, . _ _ 310 Ear, - - - 814 Nose, - - - 318 * •' ' Tongue, - 319 Heart and Blood-vessels, - 320 Absorbent Vessels, - - 323 —■ ■■ Organs o/^Respiration, - 326 -■ Alimentary Canal, - 327 Air-Bag, - - - 330 Liver, &c. - - 333 Urinary Organs, - - 335 Male Organs of Generation, - 336 Female Organs o/*Generation, 338 PART. V. OF MOLLUSCA, - - 341 Jaws—Epidermis—Muscles—Nervous System —Eye—Organ ofHearing—Organ of Smell I —Mouth—Lips— Tongue—Salivary Glands —Circulating System—Organs Respira- tion—Alimentary Canal—Liver—Organs of Generation. PART VI. OF CRUSTACEA, - - 354 Jaws—Skin—Muscles—Feet—Nervous System —Eye—Organ of Hearing—Organ of Smell —Circulating System—Organs of' Respira- tion—Alimentary Canal—Liver—Organs of' Generation. PARTCONTENTS, 12 . PART VII. OF INSECTS, ... 360 Jaws—Lips—Antennw—Palpi—Larvae—Mus- cles—Body—Members——Epidermis—Brain and Nervous System—Eye—Ear—Organs Taste and Salivation—Circulating System —Respiratory Organs—Alimentary Canal— —Liver, 4-c.—Organs cf Generation. PART VIII. OF WORMS, - . - 372 Epidermis—Miescles—Nervous System—Circu- lating System—Intestinal Canal—Organs of Generation. PART IX. OF ZOOPHYTES, - - 379 Skin— Teeth—-Muscles—Nervous System—- Vascular System—Organs Respiration— Alimentary Canal and Cavity—Organs of Generation. AR-CLASS t • A ^ ARRANGEMENT OFANIMAIA ACCORDING TO THEIR ANATOMICAL STRUCTURE. Animals are divided into, 1. Such as have a Vertebral Column and Red Blood; and, 2, Those which want Vertebrae^ and have in general Colourless Blood. Vertebral Animals are subdivided into those with warm, and such as have cold Blood. In warm-blooded Animals, there are two classes, Mammalia and Birds. Cold-blooded Vertebral Animals consist also of two classes. Reptiles and Fishes. Invertebral Animals consist of Mollusca, Crustacea, Insects, Worms, and Zoophytes.ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. 14 CLASS I. A. Vertebral warm-blooded Animals. Mammalia. In the Mammalia, the Females are viviparous, and suckle their young. The greater number of them are Quadrupeds, and these, for the most part, are covered with Hair, and walk on the Earth ; the rest have a sleek Skin, and inhabit the Ocean. They consist of the following Orders : ^ 1. Bimanum.—Two-handed, Thumbs separate on the Superior Extremities only. Homo, Man. 2. Quadrumana.—Four-handed, the Thumb or Great Toe capable of being opposed to the other Fingers or Toes on each of the four Extremities. Simiw, Apes, which have no Tails ; Baboons, which have short Tails; and Monkeys, which have long Tails. Lemur, Makis or Macoucos, (a kind of link be- tween the Simiae and other Quadrupeds ; hav- ing the hand-like Paw and Flat Nail of the former, and the crooked Nail of the latter.) 3. Brydafoda.—Slow-moving Animals, with their Bo- dies generally covered by a hard crust. Some 'want the Incisor Teeth; others want the Incisors and Cus- pidati; in others, the Jaws are destitute of Teeth. Brady pus, or Sloth. Mermc^15 ARRANGEMENT OE ANIMALS. Mermecophaga^ Ant-eaters. • Manis^ Scaly Lizard, or Pangolin. Dasypus, Armadillos. Ornithorrynclvs, Duck-billed Animal. •L Cheiroptera.—Having the Fingers elongated, for the expansion of Membranes which act as Wings. Vespertilio, Bat. o. Glires, seu Rodentia.—Gnawing Animals, having large Incisors in each Jaw, by which they divide hard substances. Canine Teeth wanting. SciuruSf Squirrel. f ; Glis, seu Myoxus, Dormouse. MuSf Mouse and Rat. Marmota, Marmot. Cavia, Guinea Pig. Lepus, Hare and Rabbit. Jaculus, Jerboa. Castor, Beaver. Kangtirus, Kanguroo. Hystrijc, Porcupine. 6. Fer^.—Predaceous and Carnivorous Animals; large Canine Teeth, the Molares forming pointed pro- minences for tearing and cutting the Food. Erinaceus, Hedge-hog. Sorex, Shrew. * Talpa,^o\e. Meles, Badger. Ursus, Bear. Dldelphis, Opossum. Viverra, Weasel, Ferret, Pole-cat, Civet. Mustela, Skunk, Stoat, &c. Cams, Dog, Wolf, Jackal, Fox, Hyena. Felrs,ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. 16 Fdis^ Cat, Lion, Tiger, Leopard, Lynx, Pan- ther, &c. - Lutra, Otter. Phoca, Seal, or Sea-calf. 7. SoLiDUNGULA, seu SoLiPEDA.—A single Toe or Hoof on each Foot. Six Incisor Teeth in each Jaw. All herbivorous. Eqtius, Horse, Ass, Zebra, Quagga, &c. 8. Pecoea, seu Bisulca, seu Ruminantia.—Two Toes or Hoofs on each Foot. No Incisors in the Upper Jaw. All herbivorous, and ruminate the Food. Camelus, Camel, Dromedary, Lama. Ovis, Sheep. Capra, Goat. Antilope, Antelope, Chamois. Bos, Ox, Buhalo. Giraffa, Girraf or Camelopard. Cervus, Elk, Deer kind. Mosel ms. Musk. 9. Bellu.e, seu Pachydekmata.—Animals of unshape- ly form, and tough thick hide. Have more than two Toes. Incisors in both Jaws. Some have enormous Tusks. * Sus, Pig, Pecari, Babiroussa. Tapir, Tapir. Elephas, Elephant. Rhinoceros, Rhinoceros. Hippopotamus, River-horse. Trichccus, seu Morse, Walrus, or Sea-cow. 10. Ce- " The Sm Scrofa Domestiea of Linnaeus has undi^'^dcd Hoofs.n ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. 10. Cetacea.—Whale kind, living in the Sea, and breathing through a hole on the top of the Head. Bodies in the form of Fishes. Tail flattened hori- zontally. MonodoTif Narwal, or Sea-unicorn. Balcena^ proper Whales. Physeter, Cachalot, Spermaceti Whales. Delphinics, Dolphin and Porpoise. CLASS II. Birds. Birds are Oviparous; have two Feet and two Wings. They have a horny Bill, and are covered with Feathers and Down. They form two divisions, Terrestrial and Aquatic. Terrestrial Birds. 1. Accipitres.—Birds of prey, with strong hooked Bills and curved Talons. VtiUur, Vulture. Falco, Falcon, Hawk, Kite. Strixy Owl. LaniuSy Shrike or Butcher Bird. 2. Levirostres.—Light-billed Birds, having a large, light, hollow Bill. PsittacuSy Parrot kind. RamphostoSy Toucan. BuceroSy Rhinoceros Bird. 8. Pic.E, or Pies. PicuSy Wood-pecker. VoL. IV. B Jvnx'^18 arrangem:^nt of animals. Junx, Wry-ueck. Sitta, Nuthatch. Alcedo, KingVfisher. ‘ Trochllus, Humming Birds. &c. &c. 4*. Coraces.—Coraceous Birds, the character not de- fined. Corvus, Crow, Raven, Jackdaw, Magpie, Jay, &c. Coradas, Roller. Paradisea, Birds of Paradise. Cuculus.^ Cuckoo. &c. &c. 5. PASsERfes.—Small Singing-birds, <&c. something in the fonn of the Passer, or Sparrow. Alauda, Lark. Sturmts^ Starling. Turdm, Thrush, Blackbird. , Emberha, Bunting, ' Frinffilla, Finches, Canai'y Bird, Linnet^ Spar- ' row. Motadlla, Nightingale, Red-breast, Wren. Hirundo, Swallows, Martins, &c. Caprbmdg'us, Goat-sucker, &c. 6. Gallix.e.—Gallinaceous Birds, mostly domesticat- ed ; possessing a large Crop and strong Mu.scular Gizzard. Coluniba, Pigeons. Tetrao, Grous, Quail, Partridge. Numida, Guinea Fowl. MdeagriSy Turkey. ' Pavo,B 2 . Class AtoANaEMENT OF ANIM4.J.S. i0 PavO) Pea-fowl, Ottis, Bustard. V. Struthiones.—Struthious Birds. The largest of the class; with Wings too small for flight. Striit/doy Ostrich. Casiutf'ius, Cassowary. Aquatic Bijacs. Grall.«. r^Waders; frequenting marshes and streams j long naked Legs; long ^^eck; cylindri-^ cal Bill of different lengths. Ardca, Crane, Stork, Heron, Bittern. Scolopax, Woodcock, Snipe, Curlew THnga^ Lapwing, B.uffs, and Reeved Charadrius, Plov.er, Fulica, Coot. RaJluSi Rail. PJiccnicopteruSy Flamingo. ■TantuluSy Tantalus, &c. S: Axseues.—Swimming-birds; web-footed; Bill broad and flat* ColijmhuSy Diver. Larus, Gulli Procellaria, Petrel. Diomcdea, Albatross. Pdccanus, Pelican, Cormorant,* AnaSy Swan, Duck, Goose. Merg'uSy Merganser or Goosander;’ Alca.j Auk, Puffin. Aptenodytay Penguin.ARRANGEMENT OE ANIMALS. V.0 CLASS CLASS III. B. Vertebral cold-blooded Aniniah. Reptiles. Their Body is covered with a Shell, or with Scales, or is C[uite naked. They have neither Hair, Mamma?, Feathers, nor radiated Fins. They breathe through the Mouth and Nose by means of Lungs; are ovipa- rous and amphibious. They ai‘e divided into Reptiles strictly so called, and Serpents. 1. Reptilia.— Having generally four, seldom two Feet. Testudo, Tortoise, Turtle. Rana, Frog, Toad. Lacerta, Lizards, Crocodile, Chamaeleon, Newt, Salamander, Iguana, &c. 2. Serpentia.—No Feet. Some are ovi-viviparous. having the Egg hatched in the Oviduct. CrotaluSy Rattle-snake. Ron, huge Serpents of India and Africa. Coluber, Viper. Anguis, blind Worm. Amphhbccna, Amphisbaena, Caccilia, Caecilia.21 ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. CLASS IV. They possess Branchiae or Gills in place of Lungs, live in water, and do not breathe. Body scaly or naked. Have radiated Fins in place of Feet and Wings. They are divided into those with Cartilaginous, and such as have Osseous Skeletons. Cartilaginous Fishes. 1. Chonhropterygii.—Having Branchiie fixed, and no Gill-flap. Petremyzon^ Lamprey. > . Gastrohranchus^ Hag-flsh. Raja, Skate, Torpedo,'Stingray Squalus, Shark, Saw-fish. Lophius, Sea-devil, Frog-fisli. ^ 3 Balistes, File-fish. Cldmoera, Sea-monster. % Branciiiostegi.—Having Branchise free, and a Gill-flap. Accipenscr, Sturgeon, Beluga. Ostracion, Trunk-fish. Teirodon, Sun-fish. Diodon, Porcupine-fish. Cycloptcrus, Lump-sucker. Ccntriscus, Trumpet-fish. Syngnathus, Pipe-fish. Pegasvs, Pegasus. B3 OsseousARRANGEMfiNT ANIMALS. Osseous Fishes. Osseous Fishes are arranged according to the situa- tion of their Fins. |. Apodes.—No V’^entral Fins. 1 % Muraena^ Eel-kind. Gymnotus^ Electrical Eel, AnarrhichaSy Sea-wolf, XiphiaSi Sword-fish. Ammodit'es, Launce. Ophidtum, Ophidium. StromateuSf Stromateus. Tricliiuru^y Trichiurus. 2, Thoracici.—Ventr^ Fins directly under the Thor racic. Echeneisy Sucking Fish. CoryphcBna, Dorado. ZeuSy Dory. PleuronecteSy Flounder, Plaice^ Dah, Holibut, Sole, Turbot. CluBtadony Chaetadon. SparuSy Sparus. PercUy Perch. Scombery Mackerel, Bonito, Tuhny. Mullwty Mullet. &c. &c. 3. Abdominales.—Ventral Fins behind the Thoracic; chiefly inhabit fresh water. Cohitlsy Loach. S'lluruSy Silurus. Salmoyarrangement op animals. 2S SalmOf Salmon, Trout, Smelt. Eaox^ Gai’fish, Pike. Chipea^ Herring, Sprat, Shad, Anchovy. CyprinnSi ('^rp, Tench, Gold-fish, Minnow, &c. L JuGULAREs.—Ventral Fins in front of the Thoracic. Gadus, Haddock, Cod, Whiting, Ling. Urajioncopus, Star-gazer. Blennius, Blenny. CalUonyrrms, Dragonet. TrachinuSf Weaver. CLASS V. C. Invertebral and cold-blooded Animals. • Mollusca. Mollusca have soft fleshy Bodies, from which they derive their name. No articulated Members. Have a Heart and Blood-vessels; Brain and Nervous System. Respire by means of Gills. Some are destitute of an external covering, and called Mollusca Nuda; others are inclosed in a Shell, and termed Mollusca Testacea. When the Shell consists of one, two, or more separate pieces, it is called Uni valvular, Bivalvular, and Multi- valvular. They are divided into the following orders : 1. Cephalopoda.—The Head surrounded by the Feet, which are the Tentacula. Sepia, Cuttle Figh. B 4. Ar^onauta,ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. 21 Argonauta^ Paper Nautilus. Nautilus, Pearl Nautilus. 2. Gastebopoda.—The Head free. They crawl upon the Belly, which serves them as Feet. They are univalvulai', or multi valvular. None are bival- vular. Limax, Slug, or naked Snail. Aplysia, Aplysia. Doris, Sea Lemon, &c. Clio, Clio. Pattella, Limpet. Helix, Snail. Haliotis, Venus’s Ear. Murex, Caltrop, or Rock-shell. Scrombus, Screw. Bticcinum, Whelk. &c. 3. Acephala.—No distinct Head. Bivalvular. Ascidia, Ascidia. Thalia, Thalia. , Ostrea, Oyster. Solen, Razor-shell. Cardium, Cockle. Afytilus, Muscle. &c. CLASS VI. r C BUST ACE A. Crustacea possess a hard external covering, and nu- merous articulated Limbs. Antennas and Palpi. A Heart,ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. 25 Heart, with Circulating Vessels and Gills. A Nervous System. Cancer, Crab, Lobster, Cray-fish, Shrimp. Monoculus, having sometimes but one Eye, or two so cl»se as to appear but one. CLASS VII. Insects. Insects have Antennae, Palpi, and articulated Limbs. Those which fly metamorphose, or pass through ,cer- tain changes in their Body, before they become com- plete Insects. They breathe by means of Tracheae, but have no Cellular Lungs. They have a Nervous System and Blood-vessels, but no Heart. They are divided into the following orders : 1. CoLEOPTERA.—Having a hollow liomy Case, under which the Wings ai*e folded. Scarabceus, Beetle. Lucamis, Stag-beetle. Dermestes, Dermestes, f ; Coccinella, Lady-bird. Curculio, Weevil. Lampyris, Glow-worm. Mcloe, Spanish Fly. Staphylinus, Staphylinus. Forficula, Ear-wig. 2. Hemiptera.—Four Wings, either stretched straight out, or resting across each other. Blatta, Cockroach. Gryllus, Locust, Grasshopper. Fnlgoro/fS6 ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. CLASS Fulgoray Lantern-fly. Chnen, Bug. LtriDorTEUA.—Soft hairy Body, and four expand ed Wings. Papilio, Butterfly. 1'. NSuuoptera.— Four reticulated Wings. Libellula, Dragon-fly. Ephemera, Ephemera. Hymexoptera.—Generally possessing a Sting. Vespa, Wasp, Hornet. Apis, Bee. Formica, Ant. Ter vies, AVhite Ant. Ichneumon, Ichneumon. 6, Diptera.—Two Wings. (Estrus, Gad-fly. Musca, Common Fly. Ciilex, Gnat, Mosquito. Hippobosca, Horse Leech. 7. Aptera.—No Wings. Podura, Spring-tail. Pediculus, Louse. Pulcx, Flea, Chigger. Acariis, Tick, Mite. Aranea, Spider. Scorpio, Scorpion. Moths. Plialaena, 3 &c. &c. &c. &c.arhangement of aniMaM-h. ^7 CLASS CLASS Vlir. Worms. Worms have neither Limbs, Antennas, nor Heart, Some have Circulating Vessels yi'ithout Nerves; others have both Vessels and Nerves. They do not metamor- phose. L'hey may be divided into Iriiernalj or such as inhabit the Bodies of other Ahlnials, and ExteriiAl. 1. Interna.—Some have distinct Vessels for carrying in their nourishment; but fe«" of them have any ^•islble Nerves. ✓ Gordius, Guinea-worm. Hair-worm. Ascaris, Thread-worm. Round-worm. Trichuris, seu Tricocephdlus. Fasciola, Fluke-vwfn. Taenia, Tape-worm. Hydaiis, Hydatid. 9. Externa.—Have Circulating Vessels; a Ner\'ous Cord with Ganglia; an elongated Body comppsed of Rings. Aphrodita, Sea-mouse. Hirudo, Leech. Nereis, Nereis. Kais, Nals. Planaria, Planaria. ' Lumbricus, Earth-worm. 8;c. ;58 ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. CLASS IX. Zoophytes. Zoophjtcs, or Animal Plants, resemble Vegetables in their external structure, but are real Animals. The greater part of them are inhabitants of the Sea. They have the parts of their Bodies radiated, with their Mouth in the centre of the Radii. 1 hey have no articulated Limbs, nor Heart, though some have Ves- sels running from the Stomach through the Body^ They have neither Brain nor Nerves. They consist of the following Orders: 1. Echinodermata.—Covered by a hard and Coria- ceous Skin. jSchinuSy Sea-urchin or Egg. Asterias.^ Star-fish. Holothuria, Holothuria. Sipuncuius, Sipunculus. 2. Gelatinous Zoophytes.—With Stomachs hollow- ed out of the Body, Medusa^ Sea-blubber, Sea-nettle. Actmitty Sea-anemone. Hydra, Fresh-water Polypus. S. Infusoria.—Animalcula of Infusions. . Vorticella, Wheel-animal. Bracluonus, Brachionus. Vibrio, Eel of Vinegar. Volvox, ^"olvox. Monas, Monas. Sic. 4. Zoo-ARRANGEMENT OF ANIMALS. 1*. Zoophytes strictly so called.—The productions o£‘ Polypi, having a Medullary Body traversed by a Horny Substance, and the Branches terminated by the Polypi. Tuhidaria, Tubulated Coralline. Sertulai'ia, Sea-moss. &c. 5. Eschara.—Where each Polypus is contained in a Calcareous or Horny Shell, without any central * Axis. Flustra, Matweed. Corallma, Common Corallines. &c. 6. Cebatophyta.—Where there is a Horny Axis, co- vered with a Fleshy Substance, from the cavities of which Polypi occasionally appear. Gorgxmia, Sea-fan. Coralliurrij Coral. Pennatula^ Feather-like Coralline, or Sea-pen. &c. 7. Lythophyta.—In which there is a Stony Axis, with cavities serving as the Receptacles of, and formed by. Polypi. Madripora^ Madripore. Milleppra^ Millfepore. 8. Spongia.—With a Spongy, Friable, and Fibrous Substance. Alchmm, Alcinum. Spongia, Sponge.- M i i p S •If!'-' '•.«J»r ■^»w I ■•‘‘ • ■‘U<r«* ilV ■*'#«i4v»- ffART I. MAMMALIA. o VoL. IV. crs' ~ ■ \ ■ V A- 'T^ n • " • t r >■• t r i •** ■‘ * .'iAfi ^ .• - • r:a » "H V ' '’■-J ' ■" , >'.. -■ *'rea*>/rjir ■-, . T ( . Z'- tif ■■ j M>\. -<4mf''iritr f ^ S'ira"- • F' '4 4' v*< '-’\ ■*' -. I ♦ — I f ** %f t ,v- t . ''d Vi^i* *1- ■Kj^' ‘ i' -S"'*' ■' • *t#* •!■ •‘ .* 'W%^.‘-{,l»»,>.^;- ' n" ■> M:’ ;' ■» _ ■ . crff «■■ - - iik..^ JLki^ y . Jl Vi • ‘-•. f-v »^, ’ ^ ^ " \3M f :*-I" *OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. The Bones of all the Mammalia are nearly of the same colour and general appearance as those of the Human Body. In some, however, as the Dentes Mo- lares of the Elephant, and the larger Herbivorous Ani- mals, the colour is observed to vary in different parts of the same Bone. They are covered with a Periosteum, and contain Marrow, which in the Whale tribe is fluid. Ossification varies in rapidity in different Animals, and in different Bones of the same Animal. In the Internal Ear, it is complete sooner than in any other part, and the Bones of this Organ surpass all others in density. Bones acquire their complete formation sooner or later, according to the length of time at which the Animal at- tains its full growth. The Bones of some of the larger species are of a coarser te.Kture than in the Human Body, especially those of the Whale tribe, in which the Fibrous Struc- ture is rendered very distinct by steeping them in w'ater. C 2 The:it> OF THE BONES [PartI. The Cetacea and Seal have no cavities even in their long Bones. The Horns of some Animals, as the Stag-, are of the same nature with the Bones, but internally have neither Cavities nor Marrow. The component parts of the Bones of all Mammalia correspond in a gi'eat measure with those of the Human Body ; but their relative proportions are found to differ, not only in the various Genera and Species, but in the different Bones of the same individual. The Horn of the Stag is similar to Bone, not only in its texture, but also in its component parts, in which there is a large proportion of Gelatine. OF THE SKELETOJSr, The Skeleton of Mammalia is divided into Head, Trunk, and Extremities ; the last of which, in Quadru- peds, owing to the horizontal situation of the Animal, are denominated Anterior and Posterior, the former corresponding to the Superior, the latter to tlie Inferior Extremities of the Human Body. BONESOF MAMMAIJA. J*AUT I.] BONES OF THE HEAD. Cranium.—Next to the Human Species, the Ape tribe *6 found to have the largest Cranium in proportion to the Face; but the Cranium is small here when compared with that of the Human Body, While, in a European Man., the Area of a longitudinal vertical section of the Cranium is almost four times larger than that of the Face, (the Lower Jaw excluded) ; in the Mofixkey it is little xnore than double. In most of the Ferae it is nearly equal. The GUres, Solipeds, Pecora, and Bel- luae, have it less. It is only about a half in Pecora, and little more than a fourth in the Horse; and in propor- tion as the Cranium becomes less than the Face, the Animal is observed to become more stupid or ferocious ; though to this rule there are many exceptions. The Facial Angle assists likewise in discovering the proportion between the Cranium and Face, It is more obtuse in the Human Species, and more acute as we descend in the scale from Man, till in the lower classes of Vertebral Animals it disappears. In the Human Adult European, the angle is 85®; in the Ourang^out- ang 67®; in some of the other Monkeys, it goes as low as 30®; and among the other Genera of Quadrupeds, it is in some only 20®. The Temporal and Occipital Ridges, or Cristae, vary considerably in different Quadrupeds, They serve chiefly for the attachment of the strong Temporal and Cervical Muscles attached to them, and are most con- C 3 siderablc. 38 [Part I. OF THE BONES siderable in Carnivorous Animals. The situation and direction of tlie Foramen IMagnum Occipitis also vary considerably among some Animals. In most Quadru- peds it is placed obliquely at the extremity of the Cra- nium, with its posterior edge turned upward. Ani- mals going upon all fours have the Occipital Foramen situated farther back, in proportion as the Face is elongated; to compensate for which, the Head is sus- pended by strong Muscles, and also by the Liga- mentum Nuchae placed upon the upper part of the Neck. Tlie Ape trihe^ but more particularly the Ourang- outang, which fornts a medium between Man, who walks erect, and Quadrupeds that move in the horizontal posture, have this passage nearer the centre of the base of the Cranium than it is in any other Animal, in con- sequence of which, they can support an erect posture longer than other Quadrupeds. The number of Bones here is in general the same as in !Man; but Ossa Triquetra are seldom seen. All the Ape tribe have eight distinct j^ieces. In the Ferev, and many others, the Parietal Bones are united at an early period; but in many Quadrupeds, particularly Horned Cattle^ the Os Frontis is divided by the Sagittal Suture for a considerable time. In some, as the Ferae and Horse, there is only one Parietal Bone; while in others they are joined by accretion to the Os Occipitis. The Bones of the Cranium, in the Elephant, are soon united into one piece, so as to appear like a single Bone. In the Cetacea, the Parietal, Occipital, and Temporal Bones, are early united. In a great variety of the Ani- mals39 Part I.] OF MAMMALIA. mals of this class, the portion of the Os Temporis, con- taining the internal parts of the Ear, is separated from the rest of the Bone by a Suture. In the Cetacea^ tlie connecting medium is so soft, that the j)arts can be rea- dily removed Irom each other. In the order Glires or Rodentiu^ the Temporal Bone has no Carotic Canal, the Artery entering between the Temporal and Sphenoid Bones. There is a considerable variety, also, among the other Foramina at the base of the Cranium ; those of the Cribriform Plate of the Eth- moid Bone being, in number and size, in proportion to the acuteness of smell. In the Cetacea^ the Cribriform Plate of this Bone is w anting. The three large Fossce at the inside of the Base of the Cranium in Quadrupeds, are more superhcial as the Animal is removed from Man. In many Carnivorous Animals, the Cavity for the Cerebellum is separated from that of the Cerebrum by a broad Osseous Lami- na, projecting from the inner side of the Cranium. The Scull of the Elephmit presents a remarkable ap- pearance ; the two Tables are separated from each other to a considerable distance, and the space is occupied by numerous Osseous Plates, that form large Cells, com- municating with each other, and then w'ith the Eusta- chian Tube, which leads into the Throat. These Cells are filled with air, which, without adding to the weight of the Head, allows it to be increased in size, for the attachment of the strong Muscles necessary for the mo- tion of the Lower Jaw and Proboscis. In the Cctecfa, the Scull is .very globular, and the C 4 Face40 OF THE-BONES [Part I. Face flat and small, the part analogous to the Nose be- ing upon the summit of the Head. Face.—The size and form of the Face depends, in a great measure, on the figure and extent of the Upper Jaw. Quadrupeds, the Ape tribe not excepted, have two Bones in the Face in addition to those found in Man. These contain the roots of the Dentes Incisores, when such are present, but exist also in Animals destitute of Teeth. They are termed Ossa Interniaxillariay Ossa Jnc'.soria^ vel Labia/ia, and are situated between the Ossa Maxillaria; but the Suture which separates these ■from the Maxillary Bones is obliterated in some Ani- mals at an early period of life. In the Ourang-outang^ as well as in Mammalia in ge- neral, the Jaw’s are longer than in the Human Body. The Elongation is produced by the depth and situation of the superior jVIaxillary Bones, and increases in Qua- drupeds in proportion as they recede from Man. When standing in the ordinary or horizontal posture, the Head of the Quadruped is supported by Muscles, and by the Ligamentum Nuchae, which in general becomes stronger according to the Aveight of the Head. I he prolongation of the Bones of the Face may be determined by the Facial Angle, which becomes more acute according to the length of the Face. 'I he Face of the Ferae, and of several other Quadru- peds, differs from that of the Ape, in having the Nasal Processes'of the superior Maxillary Bones broader, which removes the Orbits to the sides of the FIcad ;—in the Orbitar Surface of these Bones not forming the under, but the anterior parts of the Orbits;—in the Ossa41 Part 1.] OF MAMMALIA. Ossa Malarum not being articulated with the Os Fron- tis, nor Os Sphenoides, but only contributing to form the Zygomatic Arches and the inferior edges of the Or- bits;—in the Orbits^ not being inclosed below and be- hind, but communicating with the Temporal Fossae;— in the Ossa Palati forming a considerable proportion of the inner part of the Orbits, and supplying the want of an Os Planum of the Ethmoid Bone. The Lower Jaw of Quadrupeds deviates particularly from that of man, in being destitute of a Chin, and is also longer in proportion to the Cranium. The Con- dyles are found to vary according to the nature of the Food the Animal has to manducate, and the sti'ength of the Muscles fixed to the Jaw. In the Fercs^ they are so locked in by the fore and back parts of their Articu- lar Cavities, that rotatory motion is entirely prevented ; the Jaw moving only in a vertical direction, which is all that is necessary for the tearing and cutting of Animal Substances. In many Herbivorous Animals they are rounded, for admitting motion in every direction, so as to adapt them for grinding the Food. In many of the Glires they are parallel to each other, and placed in a longitudinal direction, by which the Incisores of the Lower Jaw can move horizontally, and advance or re- cede upon those of the Upper Jaw, so as to break the hard substances upon which these Animals frequently live. In many of the Mammalia, as the Fercc^ &c. the lateral portions of the Jaw are connected by Cartilage for life; but in the Ape tribe^ Horned Cattle, &c. they are united into one piece. The most singular form of this[Part L 42 OF THE BONES The this Bone is that of the Duck-bill appearance which it has in the Oniithon'7/nchus. Os Hyoides.* The Os Hyoides has the same parts in general as in Man. It can be divided into Body and Cornua ; but in many Animals, the long Cornua are so united with the Body, as not to be distinguished from it. Those corresponding to the small Appendices in Man are here larger than the other Cornua, and, being articulated be- fore them, are distinguished by the name of Anterior^ the other being called the Posterior. The first are fixed, on each side, to the Styloid Process of the Temporal Bone, or to a slender Bone supplying its place. In the Ourang-outanff, the Os Hyoides is nearly as in Man. It varies in the other Apes. In the Carni- vora., it is generally long and slender. In the SoUpeds, the Posterior Cornua and Body form an Arch, from which a long Process descends ; the Anterior Cornua are short, and are directed forward to be articulated with the Styloid Processes. In Ruminants, the Posterior Cornua unite with the Body into an Arch, which has a Tuberosity in the middle of its inferior part; the Anterior Cornua have each two pieces of unequal length, the short one being articulated with the Styloid Process. In Amphibious Quadrupeds, as the Seal, the Body of the Os Hyoides is slender; the Posterior Cornua are continued in an Arch with the Body ; the Anterior are formed of three Bones.OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] 4J3 The Cetacea have also their Os Hyoides ; with its An- terior and Posterior Cornua, which are of considerable length, and of a particular form. TRUNK, The Trunk in Mammalia, as in the Human Body, is divided by Anatomists into Spine, Pelvis, and Tho- rax, the first of which is the most constant part of the Skeleton, The Spine has the same number of Cervical Vertebrae in the different individuals of this class, as in the Human Body, excepting the thrce-toed Sloth, which, instead of seven, has nine. In the Ape tribe, the Cervical Vertebrae differ from those in Man, chiefly in the Spinous Processes being proportionally stronger, and not forked. In the Ferae, the Spinal Holes are almost in the Bodies of the Verte- brae. The first and second Vertebrae in these Animals are remarkable, the former for the strength of its Transverse, the latter for that of its Spinous Pro- cesses ; these parts affording attachment to the powerful IMuscles which correspond with the other parts in ena- bling the Animal to seize its prey, or defend itself. In the Armadillo, and other Animals of this order, the six last Cervical Vertebrae are in a m.anner soldered together, and have a kind of Groove in which the Eso- phagus is lodged. In the Cetacea, the Bodies of the Cervical Vertebrae are remarkably thin, and two or three of them arc frequently anchylosed. The 'Dorsal Vertebras in true Quadrupeds have the anterior[Part 1. OF THE BONES anterior Spinous Processes augmented, in proportion as the Head is heavy or joined to a long neck, for the more advantageous attachment of the Muscles and the Ligamentum Nucha?. We have examples of this in the Elephant, Ox, and Camel, in which they are remark- ably long. The Lumbar Vertebrae vary much in number in the different species of this class, as will be seen in the Table annexed. The Spinous and Transverse Pro- cesses are directed forwards in the sanae angles ; as, for example, in the Dog and Cat. The size of the Trans- verse Processes is considerable in some, as the Ox and Horse, to give attachment to the strong Muscles of the Loins. The Os Sacrum varies more in appearance than either of the former sets of Vertebrae; the number not being the same, even in the different species of the same Ge- nus. It is generally narrower in proportion than in Man, but wider in such Genera as occasionally stand erect, as the Ape, Bear, Sec. The Spinous Processes are longer in most of the Eerce than in Man. In most Ruminants, they almost form a continued crest In the gi eater part of the Ape tribe, it has one or two pieces fewer than in the Human Body. In the long-tailed Ape, indeed, there are six; but in the Ou- rang-outang there are only tliree. In the Horse, it is I'emarkable for the long Lateral Processes at its anterior extremity. The Cetacea want the Pelvi.s, of course the Sacrum. The Os Coccygis is extended to form the Tail, which, in many Quadrupeds, consbts of a great num- ber4/> OF MAMMALIA. Part L] beT of pieces; and these are of two kinds, one which has a Spinal Canal, and another in which there is no perforation. In such Apes as want Tails, this Bone is found to have at most three pieces; but these are per- forated for the passage of the Spinal Marrow and Nerves. In other Quadrupeds, the Vertebrae of the Tail near- est the Sacrum are perforated for the Spinal Marrotv, and have Articular, Transverse, and Spinous Processes, while the other, diminishing gradually in size to the end of the Tail, have only small Processes for the inser- tion of the Muscles. In Animals with prehensile Tails, as some of the Aj/e ' tribe, Opossum, &c. there are frequently small Processes, or even supernumerary Bones, for giving proper direc- tion to the Muscles. In the Beaver, where the Tail is used as a Trowel, the Caudal Vertebne are remarkable for the size of the Transverse Processes. The following Table gives the number of the Verte- bra? found in a few of the Species of this Class. » V[Part I. K) OF THE BONES Species. 1 Cervical. Dorsal. Lumbar. Sacral. Caudal. Ourang-outang, i 12 4 3 4 Other Apes, 1 11-14 3-8 1-6 3-32 Two-toed Sloth, 7 23 o 4 7 and upwards. Three-toed do. 9 14 4 3 13 Bat, 7 11-12 4-7 1-4 0-12 Rat, 7 12-13 7 3-4 23-26 Mouse, 7 12 7 4 24 Hare, 7 12 7 4 20 Rabbit, 7 12 7 2 20 Mole, 7 13 6 7 11 White Bear, 7 13 6 7 11 Brown Bear, 7 14 6 5 5 and upwards. Weasel, - 7 14 6 3 14 Dog, 7 13 6 3 22 Wolf, 7 13 7 3 19 Fox, 7 13 7 3 20 Cat, 7 13 7 3 22 Lion, 7 13 6 3 23 Tiger, 7 13 7 4 19 Otter, 7 14 6 3 21 Seal, 7 15 5 2 12 Horse, 7 18 6 2 17 Ass, 7 18 5 2 17 Mule, 7 18 5-6 2 17 Camel, 7 12 7 4 17 Sheep, 7 13 6 4 16 Goat, 7 13 6 4 12 Ox, 7 13 6 4 16 Deer, . 7 13 6 3 11 . Fig. 7 14 5 3 5 and upwards: Elephant, - 7 20 3 4 24 Dolphin and Porpoise, in all 66OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] 47 The The Pelvis is narrower in proportion, and has less of the bason appearance, in the whole of this Class, than it has in Man, the Ape tribe not excepted. In some the Ossa Ischia are so long, as to have the Acetabulum almost in the centre of the Ossa Innomi- " nata. In the species of Apes which are frequently in a sitting posture, there are broad and flat Tuberosities belonging to the Ossa Ischia. The Ossa Ilia of the order Bradypoda are somewhat of a prismatical form ; the Sloth, Armadillo, and some others, have the Tuberosities of the Ischia so much approximated, that the Ischiatic Notches are converted into a complete Foramen. In the Ant-eaters, on the con- trary, the Ossa Pubis are at a distance from each other, as in Birds. In the Glires, the Abdominal Surface of the Ossa Ilia is turned towards the Spine, dhey are concave exter- nally, and in some are of a prismatical form. The Beaver and the Kangaroo have the Ossa Pubis joined together by an Accretion of Substance. The Marmot, Kangaroo, and Opossum, are remarkable in the diminu- tive size of the Brim of the Pelvis, and proportional magnitude of the Foramen Thyroideum; but still more so on account of two long narrow' flat Bones, articulated with the Ossa Pubis: these give origin to particular Muscles in the Female, for supporting the Pouch that contains the Young. They are also said to belong to the male; at least to some of the species. Marsupial Bones have also been found in the Ornithorrynchus, or Duck-billed Animal.48 [Pakt 1 OF THE BONES The The Ferce have the Abdominal Surface of the Osstt Ilia turned towards the Spine. They are nearly as broad behind as before, and are hollow externally. In the Mole^ tlie Ossa Innomlnata are almost cylindrical, and so close together, that the Parts of Generation are situated on the Abdominal side of the Brim of the Pel- vis. The BeaVf which rests much on its Buttocks, has the Pelvis more similar to that in man, than in many others. In the Otter and Sealy it is similar to that of other Carnivora. In the Solipedsy the Ossa Ilia are large, and the Ossa Ischia short. The Acetabula, as in many other Quadrupeds, correspond with the posterior third part of the length of the Ossa Innominata. The Symphysis Pubis is remarkable for its length; and, in old Animals, is frequently Anchylosed. In the larger RuminantSy as the Oar, the Ilia are of great breadth. In the more diminutive species, they are proportionally smaller. The external surface is con- cave. Among the Belhia;, the Pelvis of the Pig is similar to that of the Ferae, but the Ossa Ischia go farther back, and the Notches of the Ilia extend farther into the Bones. 4 he Elephant and Rhinoceros have broad Ossa Ilia; the Abdominal Surface is concave, the Pel- vis is of enormous size, and the Symphysis Pubis of great length. 'I he Cetacea have no Pelvis, except two thin flat Bones, suspended in the flesh of the back part of the Belly, and side of the Anus, and somewhat analogous to flic Ossa Pubis.VoL. IV. D ^J’he PAR^r'l.] OF MAMMALIA. 49^ The Thorax of Animals without Clavicles is common- ly compressed externally, or is deeper from Spine to Sternum, than in the Human Species, especially in long- legged Animals. The Ribs are present in all the individuals of this" class. They vary in number in different tribes ; the greater number of Mammalia possess more Ribs than are found in Man, though in a few the number is smaller. There is also considerable variety in the form ; in Herbivorous Animals, they are observed to be broad and thick. The Armadillo has the two first pairs very large in proportion to the rest. The txvo-toed Ant-eater has Ribs so broad as to overlap like the tiles of a house,' and give the appearance of a coat of mail. The number of the Ribs on each side of the Thorax of Mammiferous Animals, corresponds with that of the Dorsal Vertebrae, and can therefore be readily known by examining the preceding Table. Sternum.—This, in the Ourang-outang, is broad and flat as in Man, but in other Apes, and in many Mam- malia, it is narrow, of a roundish form, and composed of several moveable pieces, corresponding to the mo- tions of the' Spine. In the Bat it is like a T, the fore part going across to be articulated with the Clavicles. The Mole has the Anterior Extremity prolonged be- fore the Ribs,, to be joined to the Clavicles under the Neck, so as to give origin to strong Muscles of the An- terior Extremities, which assist the Animid in burrow- ing under the ground.50 OF THE BONES [Part I. Tlie Horse and Elephant have the Sternum flattened laterally. Tl le Pig has it narrow before, but much enlarged posteriorlj.- ANTERIOR EXTREMITIES. The Anterior Extremities in Mammalia can be di- vided nearly as the Superior Extremities of the Human Body, though in some of the individuals of the class, they vary considerably from the corresponding parts in Man. Most Quadrupeds want Clavicles, in consequence of which, the Anterior Extremities come nearer each other, and their pi'ogfessive motiorl is rendered easier. The Clavicles are found in all Quadrupeds which use their Anterior Extremities much for other purposes be- sides walking. They exist in the Ape tribe, and there they resemble those in Man. They are present also in the Bat, where they are remarkable for their thickness and strength; in the Mole, Shrew, Hedge-Hog, Squirrel, Rat, and Beaver. In the Dog, Cat, Weasel, Bear, Otter, Seal, Hare, there is only a Clavicular Bone, suspended in Flesh ; these animals forming a sort of medium between the former and those that want Clavicles, such as, SoHjjcds, Ruminants, Bellua?, and the Cetacea.' Scapula,—This exists in all the Mammalia. It differs hi 4 i \ i51 Fart I.] OF MAMMALIA. ill sliape from that in Man, and its form varies- consi- derably in differcht Animals. In the Ape and Elephant, the edge next the Spine is, as in Man," the longest; in most other Quadrupeds, it is the shortest. The Coracoid Process is commonly wanting,' though present in many; In the Pig, the Spine of the Bone is almost effaced near the Humeral Extremity; but about its middle, there is a large projecting Process. Arm.'i—\n all Animals, the Os Humeri is single in each Anterior Extremity, as in the Human Arm, and becomes shorter as the Metacarpus is elongated. In Animals with a single Metacarpal Bone, the Os Humeri is deeply seated in the Fleshy parts of the Thorax. There is often a hole in a kind of Linea Aspera which projects in the Arm-Bone,- and frequent- ly a perforation in the Bone where it receives the Ole^ cfanon. In the Mole, the Os Humeri is peculiar, not only for its" shortness, but in being articulated by one small head to the Scapula, and by another to the Clavicle. It is altogether of such a nature as to turn the Palm out- wards, for working with the Hand: Fore-arm.—The motiorfe of Supination and Prona- tion are found in the Anterior Extremity of a few Ge- nera only, and these are chiefly for enabling the Ani- mals to lay hold of, or search for, their food. In Apes, the Bones have the same general appear- ance as in Man, but the Radius is the principal Bone. The Bat has no Ulna, or only the Rudiment of one. D 2 In'[Part I. OF THE BONES Jn Carnivora, the Olecranon is extended farther back than in Man. In the Pig, Elephant, and some other Animals of similar shape, the Radius is placed entirely before the Ulna; they move on a single pulley. In SoUpeds and Pecora, the Ulna is only an Appen- dix of the Radius. In the latter it is anchylosed with the Radius almost its whole length. In Solipeds, there is a Furrow, with a slit on the top. Hooved Animals have the Inferior Head of the Radius compressed, and the back of the Carpus turned forward. I n the Ceta- cea, the Radius and Ulna have a flattened form. Hand.—Ihe Caipus in Apes has one Bone more than in man. The Os Pisiformc is so prominent as to serve as a sort of Ileel; and the .same thing happens in the Carnivora. In the Mole, besides nine Bones, as in the Monkey, there is a Fakjform Bone, which gives the shovel-like form to the Hand. In Carnivora, the Scaphoid and Lunar Bones are joined into one piece. Ruminants have four Bones in the first range. IMost have two in the second. Solipeds have four in the first range, and three in the second. In Cetacea, the Bones of the Carpus are flattened, and joined together in the form of a pavement. Metacaipus.—The number of the Bones here is in general equal to that of the Fore Toes, except in Soli- jjeds and Ruminants, where, in the former, the Meta- carpal Bone consisted originally of two pieces, and, in the latter, the two Metacarpal Bones are at an early age united into one piece. Jn both these orders, this single piece is termed Canon or Shank Bone. In the Horse, the Canon Bone has a pair of much shorterPart L] OF MAMMALIA. o‘d ^ho^tcr pieces, called Styloid or S})lint Bones, firmly at- tached to its posterior and lateral parts; these have been considered also as Metacarpal Bones. In the Pig^ the Metacarpus consists of four distinct Bones. In the Dog, Horse, Ox, Sheep, See. where only the Toes touch the ground in supporting the Body, the Metacarpus forms the part commonly called the Pore Leg, the Carpus being termed the Knee. Toes.—There are always from three to five Toes in Mammalia. All clatced Quadrupeds have five. Solipeds have one perfect, and two imperfect. Ruminants have two perfect, and two imperfect. Each perfect Finger or Toe has three Bones, ex- cept the 'I’humb or Great Toe, which has never more than two. The Metacarpus and first Phalanx are more curved towards the Palm, and the Phalanx on which the Nails are placed is always rounded, and more pointed than in Man. The Ape tribe have the Thumb separate, and opposed to the other Fingers, but always shorter than in the Human Species. In this respect, the Human Hand is superior to that of every other Animal. 1 he different parts of the Hand are found in several individuals of this class, but less complete than in the Hand of the Human Body, tlie great superiority of which, arises from the size and strength of the Thumb, which can oppose the Fingers in the various offices the Hand has to perform. In the Bat tribe, the Phalanges of the Fingers, bc- T) 3 tweeft[Part I. OF THE BOXES >>4 tween wlildi the ^lenibranes of the "Wings are extend- <‘(1, are much elongated, espeeially the last, which have no Nails; but the Thinnb is short, and furnished with a Claw, in form of a hook, by which the Animal can suspend itself when in a state of rest. 'I'he GUres have the Thumb short, but otherwise perfect. In the Fcrcr, the Toe, re.sembling the Human I humb, is on the same ])lane with the other Toes ; of course they have not the power of grasping any thing. In some, as the Bear, Badger, &c. it is almost equal in length. In the Dog', Cat, &c. it is shorter. Each of the Bones of the last Phalanx in the Lion, Tiger, Cat, &c. is remarkable in having the fore part in form of a hook, which receives the -Claw' as in a / .sheath. The back part forms two Processes, to which the Muscles arc attached, that can at once extend the Claw and bend the Phalanx. In Ruminants, the single Metacarpal Bone supports the two Toes which form the part termed Cloven Foot. Several species have besides two little Bones, frequently covered with Nails, Avhich represent two other Toes ; but these are so short as not to touch the irround. There is here also a small Bone, which forms a Rudi- ' ment of the 'I humb. In Solvpcds, the only vestige of the lateral Toes, are the two sharp-pointed Styloid Bones, on each side of the Canon Bone. 'I'he three Bones of the single Poe are tm med Pastern, Coronet, and Coffin Bones; the last of which is received into the Hoof. At the back parjt of the Pastern arc also two Sesamoid Bones. Tim Cof- finTaut L] 55 OF MAMMALIA. fin Bone has a piece connected to it, under the name of Shuttle Bone. Tlie Elephant has five perfect Toes, but they are al- most entirely concealed by the Skin of the Foot. In the web-footed Quadrupeds, as the Otter and Seal, and in the Pectoral Fins of the Cetacea,^ the Bones analogous to those of the Hand, are in a flattened form, and, in the latter kind of Animals, are often in a state of Cartilage. The Anterior Extremities of the Seal, &c. form a sort of medium between those of other Mam- malia and the Cetacea, being more confiupd than tlm former, but less so than the latter. POSTERIOR EXTREMITIES. Os Femoris.—In every class of Animals^ the Os Fe- moris, like the Os Humeri, is single. It varies in length according to that of the Metatarsus. In most Quadru- peds it is so short, that it scarcely projects beyond the Abdomen, in consequence of which the Leg, properly so called, is commonly termed the Thi^gh. The Cervix of the Thigh-bone here is remarkably short, but the Great Trochanter rises considerably a- bove the head of the Bone. In some Animals^ as the Horsey there is an Unciform Process. This, in the Rhinoceros, forms, with the Trochanter Major, a Fo- ramen between tliem and the body of the Bone. The Leg Bones are nearly as in Man, but the Tibia, in general, is considerably longer than the Os Femoris. In the Ape tribe, they are more nearly equal. In some D 4 of[Part L OF THE BONES 56 of this family, the Bones of the Leg and Tliigh are much shorter than those of the Fore-arm and Hu- tuerus. Jn the Rat and Mole, the Tibia and Fibula form one continued Bone for a considerable part of their length. In the Rodentia, the Fibula is placed entirely behind the Tibia; also in the Dog, where the two Bones are attached through their whole length. In the Hoi'se, the Fibula is only a Rudiment anchy- losed by age to the upper part of the Tibia. In Ru- minants, it is wanting. In the Pig and Elephant, the Fibula is anchylosed throu"h its whole length to the Tibia. Tarsus.—In Quadrupeds w'ith Toes, the Tarsal Bones have a near resemblance to diose in Man; they differ only in a few particular circumstances. In Mon- keys, strictly sq called, the ‘Os Calcis generally wants the Tuberosity of the Heel, at its Posterior Extremity; and the Tarsus is articulated w’ith the Leg Bones, in such an oblique manner, that the Foot rests more on its outer edge than on the Sole. In some of the Lemurs, the Os Calcis and Os Scaphoides are so long, as to give the Foot the appearance of a Hand. In Carnivora, the Ginglymus at the lower end of the Tibia is more complete than in Man. The Heel is longer, and cpiite straight, in those that walk only on the Toes. In the Mole, the Tibia alone is articulated with the Tareus. RocJenfia have the Os Calcis much elongated. Jn some Animals, as the Opossum and Heaver, the Tarsus has a Supernumerary Bone on its inner side. SoTipedf^57 OF MAMMALIA. Fart L] SoUpeds have only two Cuneiform Bones in the Tar- sus. In Ruminants, the Scaphoid and Cuboid Bones are united together, except in the Camel, which has them distinct. The Tarsus of the three-toed Sloth has only four Bones, viz. the Os Calcis, the Astragalus, and two Cu- neiform Bones. The Astragalus is articulated with the Fibula, with the Os Calcis, and the Great Cuneiform Bone, in such a manner, that the Foot possesses only lateral motion, but which is perfectly adapted to the re- quisite purposes of embracing and climbing the Trunks and Branches of Trees. Metatarsus.—The structure of the Metatarsus is in ge- neral the same with that of the Metacarpus. The Ape trihe have the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe only about half the length of the others, but it can be readi- ly separated to some distance from them. SoUpeds and Ruminants have a single Metatarsal or Canon Bone of the Hind Leg, which, in the former Genus, and some- times in the latter, has a small Styloid Bone on each side. Toes.—In Apes, the smaller Toes are longer than in Man. The Phalanges are much of the same nature ,with the corresponding parts of the Anterior Extre- mities. The Great Toe is shorter than the rest, but the Me- tatarsal Bone can move like the Thumb, in opposing the other Toes when the Animal is climbing trees, &c. The same thing takes place in the Genus Opossum, but this structure is only in the Posterior Extremity. In Carnivora in general, the Great Toe is united with, and58 [Part I. OF THE BONES I and parallel to the rest. The Bear, Badger, and Mole, have it nearly equal to the length of the other Toes. In the Dog, Cat^ and Hare, it is almost obliterated. The Elephant has five perfect Toes, the Pig four. iSolipc(U have one perfect Toe, and two imperfect, articulated with a single Metatarsal Bone. Ruminants have two perfect Toes, and two small ones, attached to the under part of a Metatarsal Bone. Cetacea have no Bones in the Tail Fins, which correspond to the Poste- rior Extremities of Quadrupeds. In clawed AnimalSy the Plialange.s of the Toes of the four Extremities are the parts on which the Animal is supported. In hooved Animals, no part touches the ground but the last Phalanx. In the Bear, Hedge- hog, &c. a larger portion of the Foot touches the ground than in any other Quadruped. The Os Calcis comes near it; but in none of the Mammalia except Man does the Foot rest completely on the ground. OF.OF MAMMALIA. jtjO Paut I. ] OF THE MUSCLES. The Muscles must vary In the different orders of Mammalia according to the nature of the Skeleton. TJie degree of resemblance between the Muscles of the Animals of this class, and those of Man, may be known in a general way, by comparing the Skeleton of any particular Animal with that of the Human Body. The Muscles in the Ape tribe bear the greatest re- semblance to those in Man; but a striking difference appears in the former, on account of the smallness of the Fleshy part of their Hips, and in the diminutive appearance in the Calfs of their Legs. Muscles the Integuments.—In Mammiferpus Ani- mals, with the exception of a few, as the Hog tribe., there is a thin Fleshy expansion, termed Panniculus Carnosus, lying directly under the Skin. It coyers the greater part of the Trunk of the Body, and also a por- tion of the Neck, Head, and upper part of the Thighs. Its Fibres unite belo\v the Axilla, where they are in- serted by one or two tendons, along with the Tendon of the great Pectoral Muscle, under the Plead of the Humerus. It acts partly upon the Anterior Extremity, but[Part I. CO OF THE MUSCLES but serves chiefly for the motions of the Skin. By it also, the Animal can make the Hair stand on end, par- ticularly in the Neck. The Skin of the Hedgc-hog possesses a curious com- plex Muscle. It is of an oval form, and is placed along the Back, adhering closely to the Skin, and even to the roots of the Prickles or Spines. It sends slips to the Face, to the under parts of the Throat, Thorax, and Abdo> men, and to the lateral parts of the Tail. By the con- traction of these slips, assisted by the Flexor Muscles of the Head and Trunk of the Body, the Animal, when in danger, can coil itself up as in a Sac. It re- turns to its ordinary posture, by acting with the middle part of the Cutaneous Muscle, the other parts becom- ing relaxed, so as to leave the lower parts of the Body, the Hands, and the Feet free. In the Armadillo, the Cutaneous Muscle, though less strong and complex, is also of such a nature as to allow the Body to be coiled up. The Panniculus Carnosus exists also in the Dolphin. Muscles of the Eye and Ear.—They will be noticed afterwards in the description of these Organs. Muscles of the Nose and Mouth.—In Apes, the Nose is affected by a continuation of the Panniculus Carno- sus. In Carnivora, as the Dog, the Nose is moved by the Levator Labii Superioris Ala?que Nasi, that covers the Cheek, and the Depressor Aim Nasi, which is small. In Animals with projecting moveable Snouts, as the Bear and the Mole, the Cartilaginous Tube of the Nose IS moveable in every direction on the end of the OsseousPart I.] 61 OF MAMMALIA. Osseous Snout, by several Muscles, In the Mole and the Hog, they extend from the side of the Head and Bones of the Upper Jaw, and terminate by Tendons which are placed round the Nasal Tube. They serve for raising or depressing the Snout; or, by the action of the Muscles of the same side, it is turned laterally. The Snout in both of these Animals is surrounded by Annular Fibres, which are a continuation of the Orbi- cular Muscle of the Lips. In Solipeds, besides Muscles analogous to the Levator Labii Superioris Alaeque Nasi in Man, there are others arising from the Bones in the neighbourhood, and fixed to the Nostrils, of which four are described by Authors, viz. the Pyramidalis, belonging also to the Mouth; the Transversalis, which runs parallel to the Orbicularis Oris ; the Musculiis Brevis, which goes from the Nasal Bone to the False Naris; and the Musculiis Maxillaris, serving for the dilation and contraction of the Naris. Ruminants have the Muscles of the Nose less compli- cated : two arise from the Os Maxillare, and go to the upper, outer, and under edges of the Nostril. The Proboscis of the Elephant has, between the Ex- ternal Integuments and the two Tubes which it con- tains, a thick Fleshy Layer, composed of two sets of small Muscles, or fasciculated Fibres; an inner one, running in a transverse, and an outer one, in a longi- tudinal direction. Of the Transverse Fasciculi, some run across the Proboscis, others in a radiated, and some in an oblique direction, between the surface of the 'Pubes and the inner part of the longitudinal Fibres. These form the inner part or body of the Organ. 'I'he radiated[Part I. OF THE MUSCLES 69. radiated and oblique Fibres approximate the Skin and tile Tubes without contracting the cavity of the latter. 'I'he odiei-s, which go across the Proboscis, contract both the surface of the Organ and the Canals it contains. 'J'hev can at the same time elongate the whole of the >' Organ, or a particular part only. T he longitudihai Fasciculi form four large IMuscles, which occupy all the outer part of the Organ.' 'i'hcy are divided by Tendi- nous Intersections, and take their origin behind from the Bones of the Face. I hey serve to shorten the Avhole or a part of it, and give that extraordinary power which the Animal possesses of moving the Snout in every direction. The IMuscles of the Mouth of Quadrupeds must vary according to the shape of the Lips. In the Llcg*, the Mouth is moved by six pairs of Muscles and a Sphinc?- tcr, viz. the I..evator and Depressor Labii Superioris Almque Na'si,- the former of which is principally used in snarling; the Levator and Depressor Labii Inferio- ris, the Buccinator, and Masseter. The five first are nearly as in Man; the last has many of its Fibres spread out upon the Buccinator, in consequence of which they can forcibly raise the corners of the Mouth. The Mouth of the Horse is moved by the following Muscles, viz. tlie Levator Labii Superioris, which in this Animal is used in neighing, and in the Ass for braying; a Muscle termed Pyramidalis, analogous to the Levator Labii Superioris and Levator .4nguli Oris,' arising from the fore part of the Superior Maxillary Bone at the Zygoma, and fixed to the Ala Nasi and’ Corner of the Mouth; another Levator, termed Max- illartd,''OF MAMMALIA. 63 Part I.] Ulay lSf coming from the Forehead, and going obliquely outwai-ds by two sRps to the wing of the Nose and angle of the Mouth ; the large Zygomatic Muscle; the Buccinator; the Levator Anguli Oris, termed Molaris^ spread out upon the Buccinator; the Depressor Labii Inferioris ; two small Muscles, termed Middle Superior and Middle Inferior of the Lips ; and the Orhicidaris. Muscles of the Lower Jaw.—The Temporal Muscle in the Ape kind differs but little from that in the Human Body. In* the FercBy it is mucli thicker and stronger in proportibn to the size of the Animal, cor- responding with the hard substances the Teeth have to divide. In the Glires, the Muscle is less extensive than in the former; but in some of the Rat kind, the Muscle is so extensive, as almost to meet its fellow on the op- posite side of the Head. The Masseter agrees with the Temporal Muscle in’ being thick ahd strong, corresponding with the force required in bringing the Jaws together. Besides the Muscles mentioned above, and which are common to Quadrupeds in general, many of the Glires, as the Scpiirrel, Rat, &c. have a fifth pair, for assisting in the elevation of the Under Jaw. Each takes its origin from the Upper Jaw, near the Infra-Orbitar Foramen, and is fixed to the Lower Jaw near the Ptervgoideus Externus. 'Ihe Pterygoid Muscles only vary in size and length, and in the obliquity of their Fibres, corresponding with ihe size and form of the Jaw^ 1 he Digastric, in the Ape tribe only, possesses two distinct Fkshv Bellies, and a middle Tendon, pcrfb-OF THE MUSCLES [Part I. raling' the Stylo-hyoid Muscle. Among the FeraSy there is only one Belly, and it runs forward to be fixed tQ. the Base of the Lower Jaw, most frequently a little beyond the Masseter. Among the Rodentia, it is continued to the Chin, to whicli it is fixed. In other Mammalia, it varies a little in its general appearance and attachment, according to tl>e nature of the Jaw, and of the motions it has to perform. Muscles about the Neck and Throat.—The place of the Platysma Myoidcs is supplied by the Panniculus Carnosus. The Sterno-mastoideus is nearly as in Man, but is blended in various ways with the Trapezius and Del- toides. The Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid Muscles arise in common from the Cartilaginous Extremity of the first Rib; but in the Lion, tlie origin of the former extends in the Thorax, along the three anterior Bones of the Stenium. In the Seal, where the Anterior Extremity of the Sternum is slender, the Sterno-hyoideus arises from the first Rib. The Stylo-hyoideus is perforated by the Digastricus in the Ape, but not in other Quadrupeds. In Quadrupeds possessing a Styloid Process, there is a Muscle peculiar to them, termed Stylo-mastoideus, which arises from the outer surface of the Mastoid Pro- cess, and is fixed to the Styloid, which it raises out- wards. Some Carnivora have also a small Muscle fill- ing the space between the Cornua of the Os Hyoides. The65 OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] The other Muscles connected with tlie Os Hyoides vary in different Animals, according to the shape of the Bone. Muscles sitiMtcd on the Inferior and Lateral Parts the Abdomen.—The Abdominal Muscles differ from those in Man chiefly in regard to their proportional length. This difference is most remarkable in the Recti of Carnivora, which’ often extend as far as the Anterior Extremity of the Sternum. In such cases the Pyra- midales are frequently wanting. Muscles of the Parts of Generation,—see Articles Parts cf Generation. Muscles situated xvlthin the Cavity of the Abdomen.' —The Fleshy part of the Diaphragm is generally broad- er in proportion, and it has more extensive motion than in Man, not being so firmly united to the Pericardium. The Quadratus Lumborum, Psoas Parvus, Psoas Mag- nus, and Iliacus Internus, are present in most Quadru- peds. They differ only in proportion, which depends upon the number of the Vertebrae of the Loins, and the length of the Os Ilium. Muscles situated upon the Inferior arid Lateral Parts (f the Thorax.—The Pectoralis Major is for the most part proportionally larger than in Man, and is divided into se- veral portions, giving in some measure the apj>earance of as many distinct Muscles. In Carnivora, the insertion of the Muscles extends as far as the under part of the Hu- merus. The Pectoralis Minor in Carnivorous Animals and Ruminants, is wanting ; but in the Horse, its place is supplied by another Muscle, though this is so con- VoL. IV. E> nectedG6 OF THE MUSCLES [Pakt I. nected with the Pectoralis Major, as to go partly to the Humerus. The Subclavius, In the Ape tribe, is as in Man; in Mammalia without Clavicles, it is wanting. The Serratus Magnus is more extensive in the Infe- rior Mammalia than in Man, being attached not only to the Ribs, but to the Transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebrae. Aliiseles situated bctzocen the Ribs, and within the Tho- rax.—The Intercostal and Sterno-costal Muscles are nearly as in Man, only the latter Muscle is generally larger, and may therefore act more powerfully upon the Ribs. Muscles situated on the Inferior part of the Vertebras of the Neck.—The Muscles on the inferior part of the V'^ertebrae of the Neck are not materially different from the corresponding Muscles of the Human Body, but generally have their Fleshy Bellies proportionally larger and more distinct. Muscles (f the Spine and Superior Parts of the Tr unk in general.—In A2KS, the Muscles of the Spine differ only in the strength of their Tendons. In the other Mammalia, they differ in the number of their attach- ments, which depends upon that of the Vertebrae. The motions of the Os Coccygis are much more visible in the rest of Mammalia than in Man. The Tail, which is merely an elongation of it, can In general move readily in every direction ; may even be turned upon its own axis, or rolled spirally. The Muscles of the Os Coccygis in Animals with prehensile Tails are remarkably numerous, to assist themPart I.]' G7 OF MAMMALIA. E 2 fa.:: them'in climbing, as in the Monkeys and Opossums, or in springing, as in the Kanguroo. The Spine of the Horse is remarkable on account of the great breadth of the Ligamentum Nuchae, which as- sists in supporting the Head. There is likewise a pecu- liarity of this substance in the Mole, w here a large por- tion of it is ossified, being employed in throwing up the earth. ^ The small Muscles of the Head exist in Quadrupeds as well as in Man. In general, the Complexus has one continued Fleshy Belly, though, in the Feres, there are Tendinous Intersections through its w^hole length. The Splenius is inserted into the Ligamentum Nuchae in such Animals as have this Ligament considerably raised- above the Vertebrae. MUSCLES OF THE ANTERIOR EXTRE- MITIES. Muscles e^the Shoulder.—The Serratus Magnus, Pec- toralis Minor, and Subclavius, have been already taken' notice of. In the Ape, the Trapezius resembles that in Man ; but in other Quadrupeds, it is complicated with the Sterno-mastoid and Deltoid Muscles, and in some with the Levator Scapulae, which has great variety, in the number and insertions of its Tendon, in different Qua- drupeds. In the Rabbit, a peculiar Mu.scle arises fi'om the fore part of the Spine of the Scapula, and is inserted into the Clavicle. The Rhomboid in Apes js extended asOF THE MUSCLES [Part I. US far as the Occiput. The Occipital portion of it, in Carnivora^ forms a Muscle termed Levator' Scapula’ Map-rius. The Omo-hyoicleus is wanting in Animals whicli have no Clavicle nor Coracoid Process, as in Dogs. The Subclavius is present in Animals with, but absent in those without Clavicles. Muscles the Arm.—All the Muscles of the Hume- rus exist here, but with some variety. The Pectoralis Major, as already mentioned, is generally more Fleshy, and divided into different portions. The Latissimus' Dorsi differs little. The Supra-spinatus, Infra-spina- tus, Subscapularis, Teres Major, and Teres Minor, differ chiefly in their proportions, corresponding with the form of the Scapula. The Coraco-brachialis exists in Quadrupeds in general; but in those wanting the Coracoid Process, it arises from the upper edge of the Scapula. Monlecys have the Coraco-brachialis divided into two portions, one of which extends along the whole length of the Humerus. JSIusclcs of the Fore-Arm.—The Biceps and Brachialis internus are similar in Monkeys to those in Man, except that the Brachialis arises almost as high as the Neck of the Humerus. In many Quadrupeds, as the Dog., Cat, Horse, &c. the Muscle corresponding to the Biceps has only one Head, which has no connection with the Coraco-Bra- chialis. In Morrkeys, the Triceps has an additional portion, wliich arises horn the Tendons of the Latissimus Dorsi and Teres INInjor. In many other Animals, this fourth portion is found. In Quadrupeds in general, the Ex- tensorsPart I.] OF MAMMALIA. 69 tensors are complicated, and of great strength, corre- sponding with the purposes required in their progres- sive motion. In the Cetacea^ where the two Bones of the Fore-arm are not moveable upon the Humerus, the Triceps is wanting. But the Anconeus is present in all the Animals mentioned above. f Muscles of the Hand.—Apes have Supinators similar to those in Man. The Dog and Cat have the Supina- tor Brevis, but the Longus is wanting. They are both wanting in Solipeds, Ruminants, and Bellucc. The Pronators are the same in Apes and Carnivora as in Man. Solipeds and Ruminants have no Pronators. The number of Flexors and Extensors of the Hand is nearly the same in Monheps, and other clawed Quadru- peds, as in Man. In Quadrupeds with a Canon Bone, the Extensor Carpi Radialis is inserted into the fore part of the Base of that Bone, which it extends; and the Flexor Carpi Iladialis is inserted into the back part of the Base. The Flexor Ulnaris and Extensor Ulna- ris are fixed to the Bone that corresponds to the Os Pi- siforme. The three last Muscles are Flexors in these Animals. Mmcles of the Fingers.—The Extensor Digitorum Communis, in Quadrupeds with four Fingers or Toes independent of the Thumb, has four Tendons, in Ru- minants two, in Solipeds only one. The Extensor Pro- prius Digit! Minimi, in Mmlceys, sends Tendons to the fifth and fourth Fingers; in Dogs and Bears, to the fifth, fourth, and middle Fingers. In Solipeds, there are two Extensors fixed to the first Phalanx of the Toe. E 3 In70 OF TPIE MUSCLES [Part I. In Ruminants, this Muscle extends the Outer Toe, and the Extensor Indicis the Inner Toe. The Extensor Indicis Proprius, or Indicator, in MorJceys, sends a Tendon to the fore, and another* to the middle Finger. In Dogs and Cats, it is situated as in Man. In Solipeds and Ruminants, it is wanting. The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis is similar, in Apes and many other clawed Animals, to that in Man. In Solipeds and Ruminants, it is fixed to the base of the Metacarpal Bone, and forms the Oblique Extensor of the Canon Bone. The Extensor Primi Internodii is present in Apes, Dogs, Cats, &c. The Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis is indistinct in Apes, and wanting in the Dog, Cat, &c. In Solipeds and Ruminants, the two last- named IMusoles are wanting. The Flexors of the Thumb, in clawed Quadrupeds, are somewhat similar to those in Man. In Ruminants, the Flexor Sublimis and Flexor Profundus of the Fin- gers send each two Tendons to the Toes. In Solipeds, there are two similar Muscles, but only a single Tendon to each, the one also perforating the other. MUSCLES OF THE POSTERIOR EXTRE- MITIES. Muscles of the Thigh.—In the generality of Quadru- peds, the Gluteus Medius and Minimus are large. In the Horse, the Muscle corresponding to the Maxi- mus in Man is the smallest of the three, and is almost Aponeurotic.Part L] OF MAMMALIA. 71 Aponeurotic. The Medius in that Animal is the Mus- cle principally used in kicking. In the Bear, however, the Gluteus Maximus is so large, compared with the other Muscles, as to enable the Animal frequently to put itself into the upright posture. The Iliacus Internus and Psoas Magnus are general- ly in proportion much longer than in Man, correspond- ing Avith the greater length of the Pelvis. The Pecti- neus, in the Dog, is peculiar for extending to the bot- tom of the Os Femoris. In the Cetacea, the Muscles of the Thigh are entirelv wanting. Muscles ()f the Leg.—In Apes, the Muscles here are similar to those in j\Ian, except that corresponding to the Biceps, which has only a single Head. In the Ro~ dentia and Ccij-nivora, the Extensors of the Knee are smaller tlian in Man, while the Flexors are stronger, corresponding with their purposes of walking. The Sartorius and Gracilis form the anterior edge of the Thigli. In all Quadrupeds, the short head of the Muscle analogous to the Biceps is wanting; but the single head not only covers a great part of the outer side of the Thigh, and is inserted into the Fibula, but gives Fibres to the whole length of the Fascia Lata, and performs the office of an Exten- .sor of the Thigh. In all Quadrupeds, the Gracilis is large ; the Semimembranosus and Semltendinosus, Avhich are never wanting, are inserted so much farther down the Tibia than in Man, as to keep the Limb in a state of semi exlon. This is found to be a principal cau.se in preventing Quadrupeds from walking in an E 4 erect[Part I. 72 OF THE MUSCLES erect attitiule. The other Muscles are nearly as in Man. Muscles of the Foot.—The Gastrocnemius is always present, but the Solcus is smaller than in Man, and is remarkably slender in Solipeds and Ruminants. In Moidceps, the Plantaris is continued over the Os Calcis, to the Aponeurosis Plantaris. The Tibialis Anticus, in Animals which have no Great Toe, as the Dog and Rabbit, is inserted into the first of their Toes. In So- Jipeds and Ruminants, it is inserted into the Base of the Canon Bone. The Tibialis Posticus, in Animals desti- tute of a Great Toe, is inserted into the first Toe. It is wanting in Quadrupeds with Canon Bones. The Peroneus Longus, in the Ape kind, is peculiar for drawing the Great Toe towards the other Toes. In Animals without a Great Toe, it is inserted into the Metatarsal Bone of the first Toe. In Ruminants, it crosses over the Joint of the Canon Bone, to be insert- ed into the first Os Cuneiforme. The Peroneus Brevis and Tertius, in clawed Animals, are as in Man. The Horse has but one Peroneus. In Ruminants, the Pe- roneus Brevis is wanting. Muscles of the Toes.—Monlicys have two Extensors of the small Toes ; but, besides an Extensor PoUicls, there is an Abductor Longus Pollicis, which is peculiar to this tribe of Animals. Other digitated Animals have the same number as in the Human Body. The Extensor Pollicis is w'anting in Animals destitute of a Greai. Toe, as the Do^o-and Rabbit. In the Solipeds and Ruminants, the Meshy Fibres arise from the Canon Bone, and are inserted into the Tendon of the Exten- sorPart L] OF MAMMALIA. 73 sor Longus, of course supplying the place of the Ex- tensor Digitorum Brevis. In Ruminants, there is an Extensor Proprius analo- gous to the Extensor Pollicis; but in Solipeds, it is wanting. In Monlceys, the Aponeurosis of tlie Sole, continued from the Plantaris, must affect the Metatarsal Bones, into which it is inserted. The long and short Flexors of the Toes are confusedly connected to each other, and to the Bones of the Foot and Toes. The Massa Carnea is attached not only to the Flexor Longus Digitorum, but to the Flexor Longus Pollicis. In other Quadrupeds, the Flexor Brevis Digitorum is wanting, but its place is supplied by the Plantaris, which is proportionally strong, and has its Tendons perforated by those of the Flexor Longus, the number of which is equal to the number of the Toes. Though the Great Toe is wanting in these Animals, they have a Muscle analogous to the Flexor Longus Pollicis, the Tendon of which is united to that of the / Flexor Profundus. OFT4- OF THE INTEGUMENTS [Part I. OF THE COMMON INTEGUMENTS. 1 HE Integuments in Mammalia consist of the same number of Layers as in Man ; but these vary not only in different Species, but in different parts of the same individual. The Cuticle is more or less dry, according to the ele- ment in which the Animal lives, being like horn in those that live in the Air, and more of a Mucilaginous nature in such as inhabit the Water. In general it is uniform in its texture, but is often marked with lines corresponding with inequalities of the Cutis Vera. In particular parts of some Animals, as in Apes and Ba- boons, in the parts on which they sit, it is remarkably thick, while in the points of their Fingers it is thin and delicate. In some, as the Elephant, it forms a horny covering. In some, it is detached from the Skin in the foi'm of scales; in others, it comes off at the same sea- son with the Hairs. In the Cetacea, it is remarkably smooth, being always covered w'ith an oily matter, which defends it from the water in which it is constantly immersed. The Corpus Mucosum varies in thickness in different Animals,Part L] OF MAMMALIA 75 Animals, and sometimes in different parts of the same individual. In the Cetacea, it is thicker than in any other Animal. The colour of this substance is also very variable. In some Apes, it is white on the Cheeks ; in others, it is of a violet or carmine colour on the Nose and Buttocks. On the Belly of the Whale, it is of a silver white. A connexion also is observed to subsist between the colour of .this substance and that of the Palate and Iris. The Cutis is more variable in its thickness than the Cuticle. In the Wing of the Bat, it is remarkably thin. In most of the Bdluce, as the Elephant and Rhinoceros, it is of great thickness, but much more so on the Back than the Belly. In these Animals, it is deeply fissured. The Cuticle, here also very thick, fol- lows the fissures to their bottom. The Nervozis Papillce of the Skin are nearly of a si- milar nature in all the Mammalia to those in Man, and are also most distinct in parts most susceptible of touch. Their figures vary considerably, but their structure is nearly the same, as may be seen by macerating them for some time in water, 'f hey are very apparent in the Snout of the Mole, Hog, Elephant, &c. and on the Fingers of the Monkey tribe. They have a thread-like form on the Paws of the Bear, and some of the other digitated Animals. They have an elegant appearance at the Teats of the Balena, or true Whale ; and are very dis- tinct on the Tongue of the Bolipeds and Ruminants, and in the Wings of the Bat. A sixth sense has of late been ascribed to the Nervous Papillae in the Skin of the Bat, whicli is found to pre- vent7G OF THE INTEGUMENTS [Part I. vent tlie Animal from coming against extenial objects, even when the Eves, Ears, and Nose are shut, lliis is considered to be partly owing to the Nerves which are so plentifully dispersed between the Integuments of the ings, and is imagined to be something similar to that sensation by which a blind person discerns, by the Hands and Face, his approach to a wall, or to the door of a house, &c. before he touches them, and mere- ly by the shock given to the air. The Cellular Substance in Mammalia is, as in Man, commonly filled with Fat, the consistence of which va- ries according to the Species, and the state of the Body. In Ruminants, it is of a firm consistence, and forms the Tallow. In the Pig, it is thicker and more uni- form, and has the name of Lard. In the Cetacea, where it forms the Blubber, it is still thicker than in the Hog, but is so fluid, that on a cut being made into the Skin, and without any pressure being applied, it runs in the form of Oil. In this last tribe of Animals, it renders the Body specifically lighter, while, at the same time, it prevents the coldness of the Avater from affect- ing the Blood, which is found to be about the heat of the rest of the Animals of this class. The surface of the Skin of Quadrupeds is lubricated, like that of the Human Body, by an unctuous matter, which defends it from the action of the surrounding clement, and which, in the Dog kind, must supply the want of sweat, that excretion, in these Animals, in some measure passing off, or at least its want being supplied, by a free discharge from the Salivary Glands In many, as the Horse, a lubricating liquor is pro- duced.77 OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] tluced, which covers the Skin, and extends along the Hairs; or a greasy matter is discharged from visible Follicles on certain parts, as in the Axillae and Knees of the Animal just mentioned. Glandular Follicles are in some collected into masses, and appear in certain parts of the Body, as in the Groins. The secretions from the Skin, in some of the Mam- malia, have peculiar smells, by which one Animal can follow the track of another, or the Dog even trace the footsteps of his master. Under the Common Integuments is the Panniculus ■Carnosus, which has already been taken notice of in tlie description of the Muscles. All Quadrupeds have Hairs more or less numerous, or something of a similar nature, to protect them from the effects of the weather, or from external injury, or to serve as ornament. They are commonly in greater abundance on the upper, than the under parts of the Body, and, as in Man, they are implanted in the true Skin, and sometimes go as deep as the Panniculus Car- nosus. The form of the Hair is commonly cylindrical, as in the Horse, but sometimes is flat, as in the Toes of the Ornithorrynchus and common Porcupine, Whiskers of the Seal, and Tail of the Hippopotamus; or they are curled and waving, as in many Ruminants. The texture is affected by climate and manner of life. They are long and stiff* in northern regions, as in the Hog of Siberia, and Sheep of Iceland ; fine and silky in southern parts, as in the Dog of Malta, Cat, Rabbit, and7S OF THE INTEGUMENTS [Paiit F. . and Goat of Angola; thin, or almost wanting, as iii- tlie Dog of Guinea, and Sheep of Africa. Tile colour of the Hair is for the most part nearly the same with that of the Corpus Mucosum; but the colour is observed to reside under the Cuticular Cover- ing, and not in the Pith or Medulla. Some of the larger Bristles, as the Whiskers of the Cat, have a small Canal internally, while the Prickles of the Hedge- hog, and Quills of the Porcupine, are furrowed on the surface, and are filled with a white substance inter- nally. In some Animals, as the Sheep, the Skin is covered with Wool in place of Hairs; in the Martin, Her- mine, &c. with a silky stuff, which forms the Furs ; or in the Pig, with Bristles; or in the Hedge-hog, with S])ines or Quills; or in the Arnmdillo, with hard Plates laid like tiles on a roof, &c. Animals" are commonly born with Hairs upon them, though in some they are not observed till a certain period of life, and then only on certain parts of the Body. The Hairs in Mammalia have nearly the same component parts, and grow in the same manner, as in Man. The Horns are found chiefly on the Heads of Rurm'- nants, though, on particular parts of the Body, in many other Animals. They are commonly formed on Processes of the Frontal Bone, and grow from the base at an early period of life. The Skin of the part which, by its protrusion, is afterwards to form the Horn, becomes callous, then gradually changes inter Horn. In some, as the Ox, the Horns are round ; in others,Fart I.] OF MAMMALIA. 79 as tlte Sheeps they are flat, and they form different cur- vatures according to the kind. Between the Process of Bone and the Horn covering it, a soft Vascular Sub- stance is interposed, which, while it nourishes the out- side of the Bone, produces the Horn in successive Layers, sent off upon the internal surface. As the Ani- mal advances in life, F urrows extend across the root of the Horn, frcan which', by experience, the age of the Animal can nearly be known. The Horn of the Rhi- noceros only differs from that of Ruminants^ in being situated over the Bones of the Nose, in appearing to take its origin from the Skin, and in having no Osseous matter w'ithin. The colour of the Horns, as of the Hair, depends upon that of the Corpus Mucosum. In their consist- ence they are solid, insensible, and of a Fibrous tex- ture ; the Fibres bearing a considerable analogy to the Hairs, as may be more distinctly seen in the Horn of the Rhinoceros. They are more or less transparent ac- cording to their thinness. When artificially softened by hot water, &c. they may be bent in any direction, and moulded into any form. The Antler of the Stag differs from Horn, in grow- ing from its extremity, and not from its base; in being covered, at g, certain period, with Hairs; and^ in being deciduous. It is a real Process of Bone, appearing, when fully grown, a continuation of the Os Frontis, and is covered, during the time of its growth, with a Periosteum and a hairy Skin, which is very Vascular ; the Vessels passing through an Osseous circle at the rootOF THE INTEGUMENTS [Part I. 80 root of the Antler. The growth is commonly finished betbre the end of the third month. IVhen it is completely formed, it loses its covering of Skin and Periosteum, in consequence of the Vessels at its root being obstructed, and remains afterwards quite bare; and no distinction can now be ob-served, but an irregular projection of a cii'cular form at its base. When it dro})s from the Head, the Integuments close over the Bone witb which it was connected, till the ])eriod of its renewal returns, w'hen a Process pro- jects, and forms the succeeding Antler, which is always' found to be longer than the preceding one. It is also observed, that the Branches of the Carotid Artery, which supply this substance, are dilated during its growth, but return to their former dimensions when it has acquired its full size. The Nails and Clares cover the last Phalanx of the Toes of Quadrupeds, and are of the same nature, and formed after the same manner, as Horns. They grow from the base to which the Integuments are fixed, and commonly cover the upper part of the Toes; but in some, as the Squirrel, Rat, &c. they entirely surround them. They belong to Quadrupeds in general, and are orginally formed before the birth of the Animal, 'riieir colour, as in the Horns, depends upon that of the Corpus Mucosum. They serve for rubbing, scraping, and for catching the prey, and, in general, for protecting the extremities of the Toes.' They have no sensibility but at their I'oots. 'i'hey are wanting in those Animals which do not use the d'oes for walking, or for laying hold of the food. InPart L] 81 OF MAMMALIA. In such Animals as frequently dive or swim, the Toes are inclosed in Membranes. In the Cetacea, they are concealed under the Skin, and form the Fins. All Ruminants, and many of the Belluce, have two Toes inclosed in triangular Hooves, forming a mould on which they walk. SoUpeds have but one Toe, the last Bone of which is inclosed in a semicircular Hoof, which supports them in walking. This is com- posed of a horny covering, similar in its structure and formation to the Hooves of Ruminants; but it incloses the whole Bone. The internal surface is formed into numerous Laminae, which have intermediate Layers of Vascular matter for their nourishment. In the inferior part of the Hoof, there is a soft matter full of Nerves, and very sensible when punctured. Besides the parts mentioned above, there are others connected with the Common Integuments, destined for the secretions of peculiar fluids. These occur in cer- tain Genera and Species belonging to particular classes of Animals. In the Temple of the Elephant is a Gland, from which a duct runs downwards and forwards, and ter- minates half way between the Eye and the Ear ; through this, in both sexes, but more especially in the Male, a brownish liquor is discharged upon the Skin at rutting- time. In the Dee7’, Antelope, and Hare, are Membranous Sacs, with Follicles opening into them, placed in a Sub- orbitar Fossa of the superior Maxillary Bone.' From these a Viscid, Adipose, dark Fluid is discharged through VoL. IV. F a82 OF THE INTEGUMENTS [Part I. a clift In the Skin. This liquor was formerly supposed to have some relation to the Tears. In the substance of the Prepuce of the Gians of the Penis and Clitoris, in many of the Glires and Carnivo- ra, as the Rat, Lion, Civet, See. are two sets of Glands, termed Preputial, one consisting of simple Follicles, the other of Conglomerate Glands. Each sends out a Duct, which discharges a Sebaceous matter, to defend the parts near them. In the Prepuce of the Beaver are similar Glands, which furnish the Castor. They form a mass, that has a bag near it which contains this .substance, and opens at each side of the chink common to the Anus and Penis. In the male MtisJc Goat, (Moschus Moscifer), are parts similar, and similarly si- tuated, to those of the Castor. They are of an oval form, and are full of Follicles, which separate the Musk. In the Hare, and the greater part of Ruminants, are Glands under the Skin of the Groin, and therefore termed inguinal, which secrete a Sebaceous foetid sub- stance, and send it into Cavities from which it is dis- charged by an orifice at each side of the Prepuce. In many of the Glires, but especially in Land and Amphibious Carnivora, as the Badger, Civet, Pole-cat, Dog, Fox, Lion, &c. peculiar Glands and Bags are found near the outer end of the Rectum, and therefore called Anal. They are commonly of a spherical shape, and have a single orifice frequently ending at the side of’ the Anus. They secrete a matter of various’ colours, but commonly yellow or brown, of a strong disagree- able smell. In the Badger, Pole-cat, and Fox, the smellOF MAMMALIA. Part I.] 83 smell is remarkably strong; and some of the JFease/ tribe in America, as the Skunk and Squas?if are ob- served, upon being pursued, to pour out the contents of these Bags so profusely, that their followers cannot approach them. The matter secreted in these Bags may he excvemea- titious in some Animals; hut in others, it appears to lubricate the Skin, and defend it from being injured by the Foeces. The Badger, Opossum, and other Marsicplal Animals, have Pouches on the Abdomen, lined with fine Hair, and discharg-irrsT from their surface secretions of a Seha- ceous nature, which, when recent, have a disagreeable odour, hut are found, after being dried, like the Scent Bags in many other Animals, to acquire an agreeable musky smell. Over the Sacrum of the Aper Moserfer, or Mexican Hog, there is a Gland termed Dorsal, some inches in length, and lobulated, from which a Duct opens on the Skin, and pours out a liqdor which also has a musky smell. In the Feet of several Ruminants, especially in Sheep, are Glandular Cavities, lined with Hair, and sending out an Excretory Duct, which opens at the junction of the Hooves. 1.^ cl X. ^ OF %84 OF THE BRAIN [Part I. OF THE BRAIN. The Brain in Mammalia completely fills the Cranium, and has nearly the same parts as in the Human Bo- dy ; but there are certain peculiarities which distin- guish the Brain of all other Animals from that of Man. These consist chiefly in its being much smaller in pi'oportion to the Body, and also to the Cerebellum and Spinal INIarrow, but more particulai'ly to the Nerves arising from it. To this last circumstance there aie no exceptions, though there are several to the others. Some of the Ape and Mouse kind equal Man in the proportion of the size of the Brain, and certain Birds surpass him ; but, according to Soemmerring and Elbe, the size of the Brain, to the Nei’ves arising from it, bears an exact ratio to the faculties of the Ani- mal’s Mind; and though, in some small Anlmal.s, the Brain is proportionally larger to the size of the Body than in Man, yet all, even the Monkey tribe, are far inferior to him in respect to the proportion between the Brain and Nerves. It is difficult to ascertain the exact proportion the Brain bears to the rest of the Body, on account of the diffe- rentOF MAMMALIA. Part I.] •85 rent stales of fatness and leanness of the Animal; but, taking things in a very general way, it is found that small Animals have the Brain largest in proportion. The largest Brain Soemmerring found in the Horse weighed 1 lb. 4 oz. while the smallest in Man was 2 lb. 5^ oz.; yet the Nerves in the former were ten times larger than those in the latter. Dr Monro found the Brain in the Ox only one-fourth the weight of that of the Human Brain, while the weight of the Body of the former was six times greater than that of the latter; or, the Human Brain is twenty- four times greater in proportion to the weight of the Body, than that of the Ox. In Man, at different times of life, its weight varies from a 22d in a young person, to a 35th of the Body in a Subject advanced in life. In the Ourang-outang, it is a 48th; in other Apes, it varies from a 22d to upwards of a 100th ; in the Mouse, it is a 41st; in the Rat, a 76th; in the Hare, a 228th; in the Mole, a 36th; in the Hog, from a 47th to a 305th; in the Cat, a 94th; in the Bear, a 265th ; in the Horse, a 400th ; in the Ox, an 860th; in the Hog, from a 412th to a 512th ; in the Dolphin, from a 25th to a 102d ; in the Porpoise, a 91st. The proportion which the Cerebrum bears to that of the Cerebellum is as follows: In Man, as 6 to 1; in Apes, from as 6 to 1 to as 14 to 1 ; in the Mouse, as 2 to 1 ; in the Rat, as 3f to 1 ; in the Hare, as 6 to 1; in the Mole, as 4^ to 1; in the Dog, as 8 to 1 ; in the Cat, as 6 to 1; in the Horse, as 7 to 1 ; in the Ox, as 9 to 1 ; in the Sheep, as 5 to 1. F 3 TheOF THE BRAIN SG [Part I. Hic proportional breadth of the Brain to that of the Medulla Oblongata, Is, will) few exceptions, greater in Man than in other IVIainmalia, In Man, it is as 7 to 1; in Apes, from as 4 to 1 to as 5 to 1 ; in the Doff, as 11 to 6; in the Cat, as 11 to 4; in the Horse, as 21 to 84 in tJie Ox, as 13 to 5 ; in the Deer, as 5 to 2; in the Dolphin, as 13 to 1. The Falx of the Dura Mater, in IMannnalia, is smaller in proportion than in Man; the Hemispheres being less in danger of injuring each other. It is of different breadths in different Animals. In a few individuals of the class, as tJie Orniihorrpiichus and Porpoise, it is partly Osseous. The Tento- rium in Quadrupeds is proportionally broader tlian in Man; and in many, particularly the Carnivora, it contains in its substance a plate of Bone. In the Cat and Bear kind, this plate is in one piece; in the Hoi •se, ^Off, and Seal, in three. The Osseous Tento- rium is commonly considered as obviating the effects of concussion, tliough it is found in some Animals of slow, as Avell as in those of quick motion. The Falx Minor is wanting in Quadrupeds. The other two Membranes of the Brain are similar to those in the Human Spe- cies. The form of the Brain varies in different Animals. In the Ape tribe, it is oval, as in Man ; in Carnivora, and some others, as the Hare and Babbit, it is narrower anteriorly ; others have the Cerebrum almost round. In the Dolphin, it is remarkable, in being twice as broad from one side to the other, as from before back- wards.Part L] OF MAMMALIA. 87 The Lobes of the Brain, particularly the Lateral, are not so prominent in other Animals as in Man, though there is considerable variety here among diffe- rent individuals. In the Ape^ there are Posterior Lobes, and these lie over the CerebMlum, as in the Hu- man Body; but in other true Quadrupeds, the Poste- rior Lobes, strictly so called, are wanting; the Cere- bellum lying exposed behind the Cerebrum. In the Dolphin, the Cerebellum is covered by the Cerebrum. The circumvolutions of the Brain are not so deep in other Mammalia as in Man, and they are generally less numerous. In the Ape, they are much fewer. In the Rodcntia, as the Mouse, S^c. there are, in general, no distinctly marked convolutions ; though they are nume- rous in Carnivo7-a, Solipeds, and RxLminants. In all Mammalia, the Cerebellum is marked nearly as in Man, Avith Transverse Fissures, which, in Carni- Tora, Solipeds, and Ruminants, divide it into Lobules, forming Convolutions somewhat as in the Cerebrum; but these vary much in different Animals. The middle Lobes of it are proportionally larger than in the corre- sponding parts of the Human Body. The Cortical and Medullary parts of the Brain are similar to those in Man. The Corpus Callosum, Cor- pora Striata, and Fornix, vary only a httle in their breadth, the last frequently covering a considerable por- tion of the Optic Thalami, The Lateral Ventricles have no Digital Cavities, in consequence of the absence of the Posterior Lobes. The Cornua Ammonis are, in general, larger in pro- portion, but they are not so prominent on the surface. F 4 InOF THE BRAIN [Part I. 58 Or In the Horse, Ox, Sheep, &c. the third Ventricle forms a sort of circular passage, which surrounds the Coinniissura Mollis of the Optic Thalami. The fourth Ventricle has nothing remarkable about it; the Arbor Vita', in the substance of tlie Cerebellum, has a consi- derable resemblance to that in the Human Brain. The Tubercula Ouadrigemina are larger, hence bet- ter named Nates and Testes in the Quadruped, espe- cially in Herhivora, than in Man, though they are more nearly of the same size in the Ape. The Nates are Cortical, and the Testes” Medullary externally, as in Man. In Carnivorous Animals, the Testes are gene- rally larger than the Nates. In the Dolphin, they are triple the size. In Herhivora, the Nates, on the con- trary, are much larger than the Testes, and are of a round form. The Pineal Gland, in Quadrupeds, is si- milar to that in Man, but is generally more conical and pointed. The Acervulus Cerebri, so frequently occur- ring in, or near, the Pineal Gland in the Human Brain, is seldom met with here. It has been seen in some of the Pecora, as the Fnlloiv Deer and Goat. The inequalities at the Base of the Brain are much less considerable than in Man. The Tuber Annulare is less prominent. In Carnivora, there are two Cor- pora Albicantia; in Herhivora, there is only one of these bodies. The Corpora Pyramidalia are considerably longer than in the Human Species.89 OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] Of the Cerebral Nerves. There is nothing very particular in the origins of the Cerebral Nerves within the Cranium, excepting the Ol- factory. These, in the tribe only, resemble those in Man. In other Quadrupeds, they form two large Emi- nences, termed Mammillares, which are chiefly of a Cineritious nature, and fill the Fossa of the Ethmoid Bone. They are remarkable for their size in Herbivo- rous Animals. Each contains a Cavity, which commu- nicates with the anterior part of the Lateral Ventricle of that side by a small passage; of course, there are six Ventricles in proper Quadrupeds. This circumstance gave rise to the ancient opinion, of the first pair of Nerves conducting the Pituita from the Brain to the Nose. The number of the Nerves from the Brain is the same as in Man. They vary chiefly according to the form and extent of the parts on which they are dis- From the First Pair, numerous Fibrillae come off, to be distributed upon the different parts in the upper por- tion of the Nose. In the Sheep, there is also a Branch, arising, within the Cranium, from the upper part of the Trunk of the Nerve. In the Dolphin and Porpoise, the Olfactory Nerve is entirely wanting. The Optic Nerves are conjoined as in Man, but they appear to be still more intimately incorporated. In large Animals, the Fibrillm composing these Nerves are so separated from eacli other by the Pia Mater, that afterOF THE BRAIN, &c. [PAnr I. i)y after tlie ]\Iedu]lary Substance is dissolved by macera- tion, the remaining parts, by being inflated, appear like so many distinct Canals. The Third Pair goes through a hole ajjpropriated to it-, when there is no Sphenoid Fissure, either singly, or in company with some of the other Nerves of the Eve, and is distributed as in i\Ian. The Fourth, also, is as in Man. The Fifth, as in the Human Species, is also divided into three Branches, and these are larger or smaller, according to the form of the difierent parts of the Face. In Cai'nivorous Animals, as the Tiger^ the second and third portions of this Nerve appear to be uncommonly large. I’lie Sixth Pair, as in the Human Body, is bathed in Blood; and, while in the Cavernous Sinus, it is con- nected by one, two, or more Branches with the Great Sympathetic. ‘ U'hc Seventh, as in j\Ian, divides into the Portio Dui'a and Portio Mollis. The former differs according to the form and extent of the diflerent parts of the Face upon which it is dispersed. The Portio Mollis, as in Man, is entirely spent in the Labyrinth of the Ear. The Eighth and Ninth are dispersed nearly as in JMan. The Great Sympathetic Nerve has nearly the same connexion in the Cranium with the Fifth and Sixth Pail'S,—the same connexion in its course with the Nerves near it,—and forms the same kind of Ganglia, as in Man; only varying a little in the number of I'llamciUs sent off, or in tJie form of the Ganglia. SpinalPaih' I.] OF IMAMMALIA. 01 Spinal Marrow and Vertebral Nerves. The Spinal IMarrow is covered by the same Mem- branes, and divided into two Lateral Cords in the same manner, as in the Human Body. The division into two Lateral Portions is still more distinctly marked than in Man. The number of the Nerves coming off from the Spinal arrow is equal to that of the holes between the Vertebra’; and tliey arise in a similar manner as in the Human Subject. The Cervical Nerves are seven in number on each side in Mammalia in general, besides the Occipital and Accessory Nerves. The size and extent of the Branches of these Nerves vary according to the nature of the parts which they supply. The Brachial Plexus is produced by the three last Nerves of the Neck, and lirst of the Back. They consist, as in INIan, of a num- ber of large Trunks, variously disposed, according to the shape and size of the anterior extremity. The Dia- ])hragmatic Nerve is quite similar to that in Man. The Dorsal and Lumbar differ only in number from those in the Human Body, and they may be known by attending to the number of the Vertebrae. Of the Pelvic and Caudal Nerves, the former is as in Man, the latter go from the Vertebral Canal, by the Foramina between the first pieces of the Caudal Verte- brae, to be dispersed upon parts at the root of the Tail, and upon the continuation of that substance. The Nerves of the Posterior or Abdominal Extremi- ties form a Plexus, of which the Cords, and their dis- tribution, are nearly as in the Human Species. orOF THE EYE [Part I. 9^2 OF THE EYE. All Mammalia have two Eyes. They are largest in proportion in small Animals, excepting in such as live much under ground, as the Mole and Shrew, in which they are quite diminutive. In the Ape kind, their direction is forward as in Man, but they are closer together. In other Quadrupeds, they are placed laterally, and proportionally more dis- tant from each other. In Man, and in the Ape tribe, the axis and diameter are nearly equal to each other. In the greater number of Quadrupeds, the axis is rather less than the dia- meter. In the Cetacea, it is found to be nearly as two to three. Eye-lids are common to all the Animals of the class, but the under one, in most Quadrupeds, wants Cilia. In most of the Ape tribe, in the Elephant, &c. they are present in both Eye-lids. The Sebaceous Follicles are very distinct in the larger Mammalia, as the Ox, &c. The greater number of Quadrupeds have a third Eye- lid, termed Mcmbrana iViciiians, or Palpchra Tertia vel Interna’. It is of a thick substance, and crescentic form.OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] form, is placed at the inner corner of the Eye, and va- ries in size as circumstances may require. In many, it is only a partial covering. In the Lion and Cat tribe, Elephant, Seal, &c. it goes over the whole anterior part of the Eye. In Man and Apes, there is only a Rudi- ment of it. In the Cetacea, it is wanting. The Caruncula Lacrymalis is observed in some, as the hooved Animals; but in others it appears to be wanting. The Lacrymal Gland exists in almost all the Animals of the class, and has nearly the same situation as in Man. In some, as the Ruminants, it is divided into Lobes. In the Hare and Rabbit, it is so large as to cover a great part of the Eye. The Ducts of this Gland are numerous, and, in larger Quadrupeds, can be readily seen passing through the upper Eye-lid. Besides the Lacrymal Gland, several Quadrupeds have an additional substance, termed Glandula Harderi. It exists in some of the Glires, in the Carnivora, Rumi- nants, and Belluoe. In Ruminants, it is situated at the inner angle, and discharges a whitish humour, which passes by an orifice under the Palpebra Tertia. The Puncta Lacrymalia are in general the same as in Man. In the Hare, Rabbit, and some others, in place of Puncta, there is a slit under the Palpebra Tertia, opening into the Lacrymal Duct. In Sheep, the Puncta join into a long Nasal Duct, which terminates near the bottom of the Nose. 0 Some of the Ruminants, as the Deer and Antelope, are remarkable for the Larmiers, or Fossae Lacrymales, which are small Cavities upon the Cheek under the Eye- lids,[Part T. OF THE EYE Jids, and communicate by a Gixwvc witli the inner angle of the Eye. In the Elephant^ the Lacrymal Organs have not been found; and in the Cctacca, as in most Animals living constantly in the wateiv they are wanting. The Tunica Conjunctiva agrees, in general, with that in Man, varying only a little in colour over the Tunica Sclerotica. The Cornea, in Quadrupeds, is not quite circular, being somewhat wider in a transverse than in a longitudi- nal direction. It varies a little in convexity in different Animals, and also in its proportion with respect to the Sclerotica. In' all it is composed, as in IMan, of trans- 'parent thin INIembranes, closely united. The Iris exhibits great variety in colour in different Animals. Each Species, in the wild state, is observed to have a fixed colour : but this varies in domes- tic Animals, though less than in the Human Spe- cies. These variations are found to correspond, in some measure, with the colour of the Hair ? and in party-coloured Animals, a mixture of colours has been observed in the Iris. A Fibrous structure appears in the Iris of some Animals, as the Ox, which Du ]\Ionro thinks, if Muscular, may affect the Pupil. Blumen- Dach has not been able to discover true Muscular Fibres in the Iris even of the Elephant and Whale. The motions of the Iris in the whole Animals of this class are involuntary. 'I'he form and size of the Pupil correspond Avith the Animars manner of life. In the Ape kind, and many Carnivora, it is round as in Man. In Solipc(h‘, Ruminantx, and Cetacea, it is transversely oblong.Paut I.] OF MAMMALIA. 95 oblong. In the Cat kind, it forms an oval, placed in a vertical direction, and, in a strong light, is contracted almost to a line. The size of the Pupil is in propor- tion to the quantity of light wanted. Night-watching Animals, as the Cat tribe, have it contracted through the day, and dilated through the night, to receive a sufficient quantity of light. In the Foetus, at an early period of Gestation, the Pupil is covered with a Mem- Itrana Pupillaris, as in the Human Species. The Sclerotis, in most of the Mammalia, corresponds in texture with that in Man, and, as in the Human Eye, is thinner at the anterior than posterior part. In the Seal it is thick and firm, except at its middle, where it is so thin and flexible, as to influence what are termed the Internal Changes of the Eye. In a Whale of or- dinary size, where the Eye is only equal to the bulk of an Orange, the Sclerotis is fuUy an inch thick at its back part, but thinner and more yielding anteriorly, which may in some measure answer the same purpose with the flexibility in the middle of the Sclerotica of the Seal. The Cornea, in the Whale, is received into a Groove of the Sclerotic; but in the other animals of this class, there is considerable variety in the attachment of these Coats ; thougli in all, it appears they can be separated from each other by maceration. The Clioroid Coat and Cihary Processes exist in all tlie Animals of the class; and both af these parts, as well as the back of the Iris, are generally lined with a Pigment, which, in the Ape kind, is brown or black, as in Man. The Ciliary Processes, and their Vascu- larity, are very conspicuous in some of the larger Ani- mals96 OF ;rHE EYE [Part I. mals of this class, as the Leopard^ Horse, Ox, Wliale, &c. In some of tlie Glires, as the Hare and Rabbit, and in the Carnivora, Solipeds, Ruminants, Belluae, and the Cetacea, there is a real Pigmentum Nigrum at the fore part of the Eye; but at the Back and Temporal Side, the colour is brilliant, and is termed Tapetum Lucidum. This is wanting, however, over the entrance of the Optic Nerve. In the Horse, Goat, and Deer, the Ta- petum is of a silver blue, changing into violet. In the Ox, it is green, changing into a sky blue; in the Sheep, green ; in the Cat kind. Bear, and Dolphin, pale yellow; in the Badger, Dog, and Fox, it is blue, changing into white. In general, the paint is brightest in night- watching Animals, the brightness reflecting more light upon the Retina. Wherever the Pigmentum exists in the Eye, it is of a black colour where it lines the fore part of the Choroides and back of the Iris. In some entirely white Animals, as the White Rabbit, White Mouse, &c. there is no paint upon the inner side of the Eye; in such cases, there is a great degree of redness, owing to the Blood-vessels of the Choroides shining through the Retina and Humours; where, however, there is the least spot of a dark colour, this is not always observed. The Optic Nerve commonly passes through a Cribri- form part in the bottom of the Eye, and has in gene- ral the same appearance, and same kind of termination, as in the Human Subject. Jn some Animals, as the Hare and Rabbit, the Nerve goes, w’ithout dividing, through the Sclcrotis and Choroides, and forms a sort of Cup, fromOF MAMIMALIA, Part I.] 9T from the edges of which the Retina arises, having Me- dullary Fibres in it, and these running chiefly in a transverse direction. The Foramen Centrale, of sjx)t seen in the Retina near the axis of the Human Eye, has been observed in several of tjie Ape tribe, where the Eyes are placed nearly in the same direction as in Man. The Lens, in all Quadrupeds, is divided into two spherical segments ; the posterior is generally the more convex of the two. In Man, tile I^ens is found to be proportionally the least and flattest. Of all other Mammalia, Blumexbach found it proportionally the greatest in the Opossum^ and the least in the Whale. In solne Quadrupeds, it is of a much rounder form than in the Human Body. In the Cetacea^ it is nearly spherical. The proportion of the axis to the diameter has been observed to be, in j\Ian and the Ape tribe, as 1 to 2; in the Dog, as 7 to 9; in the Horse, as 2 to S ; in the Ox, as 5 to 8; and in the Whale, as 13 to 15. The other Humours of the Eye have nothing par- ticular in them. The proportions of the three Hu- mours, the Aqueous, Crystalline, and Vitreous, mea- sured on the axis of the Eye, are in Man, 5, 4, 15; in the Dog, 5, 8, 8; in the //orjr, 9,16, 18; in the Ox, 5, 14, 18. 0/'the Muscles qf the Hpe.—Tliose in the Ape kind are the same as in Man. In other Quadrupeds, the Eye has a peculiar Muscle, tenned Suspensorius, wliiclt may assist the others according to the direction of its Fibres. It arises, with the straight Muscles, from the edge of the Foramen Opticum, and, running between \ or.. IV. R these[Part I. 98 OF THE EYE tliese and the Ball, is fixed to the Sclcrotis a little be- hind the insertion of the Recti Muscles. In the Horse and Ruminants, it is in the form of a Funnel; but in the greater part of Carnivora, and in the Cetacea, it forms four distinct Muscles. In the Rhinoceros, it is di- vided into two parts; but, besides these, Mr Thomas . of London has discovered, that this Animal has four Tendinous Processes, which arise from the inner side of the Sclerotis,'at the bottom of the Eye. These spread out and join anteriorly, to form a kind of Muscular Membrane, that is in.scrted into the Choroides at its widest part, and is supposed to be connected w'ith the internal changes of the Eye. In all Mammalia, the Globe of the Eye is surround- ed with Fat, which answers the same purpose as in the Human Body. OFOF MAMMALIA> 90 Part t.] OF THE EAR. The Organ of Hearing exists in all the Animals of the class, and the External Ear in most of them; but there are several individuals in which the latter is defi- cient, as those which live much under ground, as the Mole, or in the water, as the Ornithorrynchus, most Seals, the Walrus, Manati, and the Cetaeea. The es- sential parts are in general as in Man, varying chiefly in form, and in all adapted to their manner of life. The Lobe is wanting in all the Quadrupeds. An Au- ricle, resembling that in Man, is only found in some of the Ape kind, though a Concha, or External Ear, exists in Quadrupeds in general; but even in the Oii- rang-oiitang, as well as in other Apes, it is more point- ed than in Man. The External Ear varies much in its general appear- ance, direction, and composition. Timid, and also nocturnal Animals, as the Hare, Deer, Bat, &c. are observed by Naturalists to have large Ears, to add to their acuteness of hearing, and enable them to guard against beasts of prey. The Concha is found to be turned backward in those that fly, as the Hare, and G- forward[Part I. 100 OF THE EAR forward in such as pursue, as the Lion, &c. Or in some, the superior part of the Concha is turned down, as in the Spaniel, Sheep, Hog, Elephant, &c. which en- ables tliem to hear sounds from below. Pendant Ears are considered by some Naturalists as marks of slavery. In the Bat, the Concha is so constructed, as to pre- vent the Air from rushing violently in while the Animal is flying. The External Ear, in Quadrupeds, is more conical, and more uniform internally, than in Man. In all the class, excepting some of the Ape tribe, the outer bar of the Ear, or Helix, is wanting, the part being thin, and sharp on the edges; and instead of an Antihelix, there is a transverse eminence, situated deep in the Ear. There is a Tragus and Antitragus, the latter of which, in some Animals, as the Shrew, serves as an Operculum to the Ear. In Animals with very long and moveable Ears, the Muscles are much more numerous than in Man. In the Dog, Horse, Sheep, &c. they are from a dozen to twenty" in number to each Ear. Some arise from the Head, and are fixed to the part at the root of the Concha of the Ear, tenned Scutum; others come likewise from the Head, and are inserted into the Concha or Meatus Externus; some pass from the Scutum to the Concha, and some from one part of the Concha to another.. By means of these Muscles, the Animal can comrilonly move the Ear in every direction, or turn it upon its own axis, witlxout moving the Head. All Adult Quadrupeds have the Meatus Externus osseous at its inner part; but it varies in length, width, and direction, in different Species. In some, it is cy- lindrical ;101 OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] lindrical; in otliers, flattened; in Apes, it is nearly as in Man ; in Carnivora and Ruminants, it passes di- rectly inwards; in some, as the Otter and Pole-cat, it goes in a retrograde direction; in the Roclentia, it is directed dow’nwards ; in the Mole, where it is quite flat, it has the Membrana Tympani laid over it like a roof; in the Elephant and Horse, it goes dowmwards and backwards. In some Animals which dive in the water, it is pro- vided with a Valve, as in the case of the Water Shreve, and some Whales. In the Cetacea, the Osseous Canal, like the External Auricle, is wanting; in place of which there is a Cartilaginous Tube, which begins by an ori- flce proportionally very minute, on the surface of the Skin, and leads in a grinding direction through the Fat, till it terminates at the Membrana Tympani, In the Ornithorrynchus, also, the Meatus is observed to be long and tortuous, Tlie Membrana Tympani, the Tympanum, and the Eustachian Tube, are found to be common to all Mam- malia ; and the Membrane of the Tympanum appears to be concave externally in all the individuals of the class, the Cetacea not excepted. Its structure nearly re- sembles that in the Human Body, It is fixed in a case of Bone, which is commonly open above, and is some- Avhat of an oval form, with the long diameter placed in a vertical, or in an oblique direction, though it varies in this last respect considerably in different Animals, The Tympanum differs in size, form, and situation. It is oval in some, round or hemispherical in others, G 3 andOF THE EAR 102 [Pa t T, and In several it is angulated ; or is sometimes so shal- low as to Ik? in form of a cliink. In the Ape tribe, there are scarcely any Mastoid Cells to communicate with the Tympanum, the Pro- cess containing these in the Human Body, being in this race of Animals almost obliterated ; but, in place of IVIastoid Cells, there are others which extend a consi- derable way into the Temporal Bone. In the greater part of d'lgiiated Mammalia, instead of a Mastoid Process, there is a Bony Organ, commu- nicating with the proper Tympanum, which, in the greater part of the Glires and Carnivora^ forms a large Cavity, or Bulla Ossca, that makes the principal part of the Tympanum. This, in the Doff, Cat, Lion, Ti- ger, &c. is globose; in Ruminants, it is angular ; in the Bear, it is wanting. In the Solipeds, Ruminants, Pigs, 5cc. the Cavity is divided into Cells, and there is behind this a long Process, like the Mastoid, or in some like the Styloid, but belonging to the Occipital Bone. In some Animals, as the Indian Hog, Marmot, and Porcupine, the walls of the Tympanum shew vestiges of Cells ; but the Cellular appearance is more distinct in the Elephant, where this Cavity is of great size. The Tympanum, with its Bulla Ossea, in the Ceta- cea, is formed of a Bony Lamina, rolled on itself like a Concha ; but there is no spiral Cavity in it, the sub- stance being quite solid and hard like a rock. This has been frequently mistaken for the Labyrinth in these Animals. The Internal Parts of the Ear, in the Whale tidbe. areOF MAMMALIA. lOJ Part I.] are not connected to the Bones of the Cranium, as in other ISIammalia, but are loosely attached by Liga- ments. The Eustachian Tube, in ^Mammalia, has nearly the same kind of structure and openings as in Man. In the Horse, it communicates with a large Sac placed in the lateral and posterior part of the Mouth. In the Cetacea, it is of great size, and terminates at the Nose or Blowing Hole, where there is a Valve to prevent the water from rushino; into it when thrown out by this opening. The Osslcula Audltus are the same in number in al- most all Mammalia, but they vary much in form and size in the different Species. In some Quadrupeds, as the Mole, Marmot, and Guinea Pig, a Process is found, which extends from one side of the Fenestra Ovalis to the other, and passes between the Crura of the Stapes, so that, when the Stapes is removed, there appears to be two Fenestrae Ovales. In the Whale, that Bone has very nearly an entire Plate, instead of tv/o Crura. In some of the Bisulca, one or two additional Bones are occasionally Ibund. The Ornitliorrynchus, on the contrary, has only two Ossicula, the second of which approaches in its form to the single Bone in Birds, (see Phil. Trans. 1805.) The Muscles of the Internal Ear of Mammlferous A- nimals appear to be nearly the same as in Man. The figure and size of the Fenestra Rotunda, and Fenestra Ovalis, are found to vary considerably. In some, as the Bear, the Cochlear Foramen is triangular ; G d in[Part I. lOi OF THE EAR .in others, as the Ani-eotcr^ both tlie Foi-amina are oval, and nearly equal in size. In Carnivora^ Solipeds, Ru- minants^ and Cetacea^ the Codilear Foramen is the largest; in some it is double or triple the size. In the Hare and Opossum, the V'estibular Ojx?ning is by much tlie largest- In all Mammalia, the two Foramina are filled, the Cochlear witli Membrane, and the Vestibular •with Bone. The Labyrinth is nearly similar to that in Man, but the pro^x^rtional size varies much among the different Species. As in die Human Subject, also, it is com- monly hollowed out in the Pars Petrosa; but in some, as the Bat and Mole, it is visible in the Cranium with- out any preparation. In some it is large; in others, small. The Cochlea is almost always turbinated, and the number of turns are commonly the same in the dif- ferent individiuds, excepting a few, as the Guinea Pig, Porcupine, and Indian Hog, where there is a turn more, and the Cetacea, where there is a turn less, than in Man. In most Carnivora, and in the Horse, Hog, and Elephant, the Cochlea is larger in proportion to tlie semicircular Canals than in Man. In Bats, it is re- markably large, compared with the Canals. The size of the tw^o Canals of the Cochlea is in general nearly equal; but in some, as the Dog, Horse, and Elephant, the Fcala Tympani is the larger. In the Cetacea, the semicircular Canals arc proportionally so small, that by some they have been overlooked, and by others, as Dr Camtkr, their existence has been denied. ThePart I.] 105 OF MAMMALIA. The Vessels and Nerves of the Ear are in propor- tion to the parts on which they are ^dispersed. They do not differ materially from those in the Human Body. In Mammalia, as well as in Man, the Portio Mollis passes, with the Portio Dura, into the Meatus Internus, and enters the Labyrinth by several Holes, the number and size of Avliieli vary in different A:- nirnals.lOiJ {Part I. OF THE NOSE OF THE NOSE. ^PlIE Nose, in IManimalia, corresponds with that in ]Man, in communicating with the Fauces, and conduct- ing the air to tlie Lungs ; but differs from it in form and size,—in the Sinuses and Laminae whicli increase the extent of the Nasal Cavity,—and in the Cartilages which cover the aperture of the Nose. The Sinuses of the Head, all of which lead dii'ectly or indirectly into the Cavity of the Nose by small aper- tures, differ considerably in shape, size, and general appearance. They arc peculiar to Man and Quadru- peds, and are not fully expanded till the Aninial arrives at its full size. Frontal Sinuses.—These, in some of the Ape tribe, are large; in others, inferior in size. Among some of the Giires, as the Rat and Hare, they are wanting; but in some of the Fercr, as the Dog, ^yolf, and Fox, they are so large as to go from side to side of the Head, and even to occupy the greater part of the Frontal Bone. In the Horse, also, they extend througli a large share of the Os Frontis, but, instead of communicating directly with the Nose, they lead, by a considerable opening,Part I.] OF MAMMALIA. 107 opening, to the Posterior Maxillai-y Sinuses. Among the Pccora, there are scarcely any Frontal Sinuses in the Deer, while the Ox and Sheep have them of great extent. In the Pig, also, they are very extensive ; but the Elephant has them the largest that arc found in any iVnimal, if the Diploe, or Cells, already mention- ed, can be regarded as such. They extend, in that Animal, between the Tables of the Frontal, Parietal, and Temporal Bones, as far as the Occipital Condyles. I'he Rhinoceros and Hippopotamus have none. Ethmoid Cells.—In a number of Quadrupeds, these are distinct from the Superior Spongy Bones, and they are sometimes separated from the general Cavity of the Nose by a distinct partition. In the greater number of Anin)als, they vary considerably in tlielr appearance from those in Man. They are sent down from the Cri- briform Plate in the form of hollow Pedicles, and, ex- tending in the Cavity of the Nose, the nearest, in pro- portion as they advance, unite with each other. They form little Caverns, which, as they increase in size, be- come less numerous, and communicate among them- selves by different passages. Carnivorous Quadrupeds are found to have the greatest proportion of these Cells. The Glires have but few. Sphenoidal Sinuses.—These are the smallest in pro- portion in Quadrupeds ; many want them, but they are of great extent in the Elephant, though not Cellular, like the other Sinuses of this Animal, Maxillary Sinuses.— In the Ape tribe, these are pro- portionally smaller than in Man. They are diminutive in most of the Glires and Carnivora, and, in general, whereOF THE NOSE [Part I. 108 where the ]\Iaxlllary Bone docs not form a Plate under the Orbit. In the Horse, there are two large Maxilla- ry Sinuses on each side, the one behind the other, each opening by a separate passage into the Nose. These Sinuses are very largo in Pecora ; they are wanting in the Hog, but their place seems to be supplied by a Si- nus in the base of tlie Os Malas. In the Elephant, they are divided, like the Bones of the Cranium, into numerous Cells, which communi- cate with each other, and terminate by a common pas- sage in the Nose. The Foramina in the Cribriform Plate of the Eth- moid Bone, in different Quadrupeds, are so unequal in size, that the part assumes the appearance of Fine Lace, and their number is considered to be in proportion to tlie acuteness of the sense of smelling. They are large and numerous in the Elephant and Hind, but abound most in Animals of the Carnivorous kind. Ossa Spongtosa.—The Conchae, or Ossa Spongiosa, are more convoluted in other Mammalia than in Man ; which affording a larger surface for the expansion of the Membrana Pituitaria and the distribution of the Ol- factory Nerves, contributes to increase thepower of smell. Hence most of the Fcrcr, and the Pccara in general, having more complicated Ossa Spongiosa, are observed to possess greater acuteness in this sense. In SoUpeds, Pccora, and Bellnce, the superior or an- terior Spongy Bone is formed in each side by one of the Cells of the Ethmoid Bone, which extends to the Os Spongiosum Inferius, and is placed over it like tiles on a roof. In most of these Animals, its convolutions arc109 Part L] OF MAMMALIA. are numerous, to provide as large a surface as possible within the confined space of the Cavity of the Nose. In Apes, the Ossa Spongiosa Inferiora, sen Poste- riora, in some of their Species, resemble those in Man; but in others, they approach those of the Feroe and Belluce. In all these Animals, the Lamina in each Nostril is simple at its base, but is forked at a little dis- . tance from this; each of the two Laminae that grow from it, coiling up into tw'O or two and a half turns, according to the Species. The Plates forming the In- ferior Concha contain two Canals, one above, the other below, the principal Lamina ; the inferior leading into the Posterior Nares. The Inferior Spongy Bones are perforated by nume- rous Holes of different size ; but in the Pig, the Lami- nae are impervious. In Sollpeds, the Inferior Concha is less regular than in the Animals mentioned above; instead of forking at the base, it bends first down, then up, and is attached to the Maxillary Bone. Among the Glires, the Hare, Squirrel, and Rat kind, and in the Ferae, the Dog and Cat trib, the Bear, Seal, &c. have the Inferior Spongy Bone ex- tremely complicated. Tire first Lamina is forked, and each Branch subdivided. The last Laminae form a number of parallel Canals for the passage of the air, and the distribution of the Nerves. The number of Laminae in the Inferior Conchae is very variable, d he Seal and Otter are observed to have them in greatest abundance. Next to these come the Dog and Bear. Among the Glires, the Beaver has most, and the Hare least of them.. In some of the Ferae,OF I HE NOSE (Part I. no Fera', as the there is only a double roll some- thing 1 ke tliat in Pecora. CartUugca.—The Cartilages of the Nose vary con- siderably in different Quadrupeds. Those in the Ajie tribe differ from the analogous parts in Man chiefly in their diminutive .size. The Muscles affecting the Nose, in these Animals, appear to be part of the Panniculus Carnosus. In Carnivorous Animals, as the Dog^ in which the Nose does not project beyontl the Mouth, the Carti- lages also bear a considerable resemblance to those in the Human Species. In Carnivorous Animals with move- able Snouts, as the Mole and Bca?-, the Cartilages form a complete Tube, which is connected to the c^Ige of the Osseous part of the Nose. The Snout of the Hog bears a considerable resem- blance to that of the Mole, but its Cartilages are shorter in proportion. The Nose of Carnivorous Animals has distinct lonoi- O tudinal jMuscles, the ends of which, and the Snout it- self, are covered with circular Fibres, continued from the Orbicular Muscles of the Lips, as already observed. In Solipech and Rum'mmits, the Osseous Nares arc large, and have a Notch in their lateral parts. The soft portion of the Nose, connected to the Bones, forms the Nostrils, strictly so called, the edges of w'hich, in the Horse, inclose a Cai’tilage, called Semilunar. The rest of the cxtenial part is merely a fold of the Skin, and forms a Cavity termed False Haris, w'hich has the same common opening with the Nostril. The Muscles' of the Nose are noticed in a former part of the Volume. The Pituitary Membrane agrees in its general struc- turePart I.] OF MxVMMALIA. Ill tirre' Avith that in Man. Its surface has numerous Pores, from which a Mucus constantly exudes, to keep the parts moist. '1 he Blood-vessels arc from similar Trunks with those in Man. The Nerves arise from'the fri*st and fifth pairs also, as in the Human Body. The Olfactory Nerves penetrate the Ethmoid Bone by Fibrillae, corresponding in number and size to the Foramina in the Cribriform Plate, and are dispersed upon the Mucous Membrane covering the Cells and Anterior Conchae of this Bone, and upon the parti- tion of the Nose. Some ofthese ai'e soft and pulpy; othens, as in the Ox and Sheep, can be readily traced. I'lie Branches of the fifth pair belonging to the Nose, are from the Ophthalmic and Superior Maxillary Portions. Of the first, some minute Branches penetrate the Superior Orbitar Plate, to be dispersed upon the Membrane lining the Frontal Sinuses; others go to the Nose, re-enter the Cranium, and return to the Pituitaiy Membrane, as in Man. 'I he Superior Maxillai'y Nerve supplies the inferior-posterior parts of the Nose, and sends Twigs to the Maxillary Sinuses much after the same manner as in the Human Species, allowance always be- ing made for the size and form of the organ in different Animals. Trunk and Proboscis of the Elephant.—This very sin- gular Organ is extended into a long Fle.shy substance of a conical form, fixed by its base to the Frontal and. Intermaxillary Bones. It contains two Tubes a little before its axis, which formor THE NOSE [Part X. im form the prolongations and external openings of the' Nose. 'I'hese are nearly cylindrical, but contracted at' their extremities, particularly next the Head, \\here they are twice inflected upon the Intermaxillary Pones, atid fixed round the Osseous Nares. 'J'his part is pro- tected by the Cartilage of the Nose, which is of an oval form, and so much more convex in the Male than the' Female, that by this it is said the sex can be distin- guished. d'he Tubes are covered with a strong Tendinous* Membrane, and perforated by many Mucous Follicles, which open into their Cavities. Tlrey are separated from each other, and are both surrounded by a quanti- ty of w'hite Adipose Substance, which also extends be- tween the different Muscles that occupy the space be- tween the Tubes and the Skin, and which have been already described. The outer part is covered by the Common Integuments, which are lined w'ith a d’endi- nous Membrane and Cellular Substance. The Proboscis' serves to pump up the drink which the Animal takes in but, according to Cuvikr, the Tubes want that deli- cate structure internally, which is necessary for the Or- gan of smell; .so that, in his opinion, this sense in the Elephant is confined to that part of the Nostrils con- tained in the Bones of the Head. In the Cetacea^ the Nares and Spirncula differ much from the Organ of smell in other Mammalia, being placetl on the summit of the Head, and serving as pas- sages of respiration, and for the rejection of the w'ater which enters the mouth along with their Food. The’ two Osseous Nares are placed so high on the Head,- thatVOL IV. OF Part I.] OF MAMMALP\ ’ lit] that the Animal can breatlie while the Mouth is unJei- water. They are furnished with two semicircular fleshy Valves, which are shut by a strong Muscle. On the upper side of the Valves are two Membranous Sacs, lined with a black Mucous Skin, which is the continuation of the Common Integuments, and covered externally by a stx’ong Muscular Expansion that arises from the Cranium. They have a common opening ex- ternally, by a narrow chink in form of a crescent. The water taken in by the Mouth, and which, in Fishes, is thrown out at the openings of the Gills, is here pre- vented from being swallowed, by the contraction of the Pharynx. This elevates the Valves, and distends the Sacs, from which the fluid is forcibly discharged to a great height by the surrounding Muscular Fibres.OF THE MOUTH, &c. m [Part I. OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT, WITH THEIR APPENDICES. Lips. The Lips, or Flesliy moveable’parts exclusive of the Jaws, are found to be peculiar to Man and' Quadru- peds ; the Cetaceous tribes have none. Quadrupeds, the Ape tribe not excepted, have fewer Muscles in the Lips than are met with in the Human Species; of course, they have less variety in their mo- tions. Where the Nose is prolonged into a Snout, as in the Pig and the Elephant, there is scarcely any Up- per Lip; the Muscles which, in other Animals, be- long to the Upper Lip, are here employed in moving the Nose. In those which Avant Teeth in the Upper Jaiv, the Gums are harder than in others, to compensate for this. Tongue. The Tongue, in all Mammalia, is fleshy and flexible,, and in the different individuals of this class, varies chief! VDF MAMMALIA. 115 Part I.J chiefly in the extensibility of its fore or loose part. In some Animals, as the Ant-eater^ Armadillo^ and Ornl~ thorrynchus, the Tongue is the longest in all the Mam- malia, for seizing their prey. In the Cetacea, on the contrary, it is almost entirely fixed down to the Jaw; but in Quadrupeds in general, it is nearly as loose as in the Human Body. In some Animals, it serves'as an Organ of taste; in others it is also employed for taking in the Food. In most Quadrupeds, it is proportionally longer and narrower than in Man, and possesses the same kind of Papillag, the chief difference being in their form. In the generality of Herhwora, especially the Pccora, the Tongue is covered with a firm Cuticle, forming in- numerable sharp-pointed Papillae, directed towards the Throat. These, like so many tenter-hooks, assist in laying hold of the grass, and other kinds of Food, and serve, at the same time, to increase the.Organ of taste, lii some of the Monkey tribe, the Papillse Maximae are fewer in number, and differently disposed from those in Man. In the Ferae, the Tongue differs little from that in the Human Body. In the Cat kind, besides many round and conical Papillae, there is a horny or prickly set covering the Tongue, which render it rougher, and enable it to take a firmer hold of the prey. The Dog has upon the Mouth and root of the Tongue, many Papillae, placed obliquely backward.*;, which assist in preventing the Food from escaping. There is likewise, in this Animal, a Tendinous Cord, termed Worm, in the under part of the substance of II 2 th«116 OF Tlif: MOUTH, kc. [Pakt I. In the Tongue, wliich extends as far as the point, and is inclosed in a ^Membranous Sheath. It is supposed to assist the Animal in lapping its drink, and is found in the Oj}ossum., which drinks in a similar manner. The removal of this substance from the Tongue of the Dog, has long been considered as a preventive against Hy- , drophobia. In Solipeds^ the Papilhe Conicee of the Tongue are small and compact; the Fungiform are only found in the sides of this Organ, the space behind resembling (hat in IMan. In most Pccora, as the Ox, kc. the Papillae Conicae covering the fore part of the Tongue, terminate each in a horny, flexible Filament, turned backwards, assist- ing, as in the Tongue of many other Animals, to lay hold of the Food. The posterior part of the Tongue is covered with Tuberculated Papillae, which in some individuals are numerous. Among the Cetaceous tribe, the Tongue in the Dol- 2)hm has no distinct Conical Papillae. Salivary Glaxds. , The Salivary Glands are found to exist in almost all Mammalia; their situation and structure beinf^ nearly as in Man. They differ only in shape, in proportional size, in colour, and in the direction of their Excretory Ducts. They are observed to be small in the Ferw, where there is little mastication, larger in the GUres, and largest of all in Solipcds and Ruminants, which grind their Food. '117 Fart I.] OF Mx\MMALIA. In the Ape kind, the Parotid Gland is remarkably large, and here the Maxillary and Sublingual open each by a distinct Duct at the Frasnuin Linguae. The Parotid exists in all Quadrupeds, except in some of the Ant-eaters, and the Seal. In the former Ani- mals, the want is supplied by the Maxillary, which ap- pears to be increased in size. In the Seal, the Sublin- gual is wanting, as well as the Parotid. In the Glires, the Salivary Glands are of consider- able size. The Parotid, in the Rabbit, embraces the Concha of the Ear, and extends as far as the Maxillary Gland. The Parotid Duct, in the GUres, crosses the upper part of the Masseter, and perforates the Mouth opposite the last superior Molaris. The Duct of the Maxillary has no Papilla at its termination upon the side of the Fraenum Linguae. In some of the Porcupine Ant-eaters, the Parotid is smaller than the Maxillary ; the latter is extended in the Neck. The Sublingual is long and narrow, and the Molar Glands are united into a mass under the Buccinator. The Salivary Glands, in the Carnivora, are smaller than in the Glires, little mastication being required by this set of Animals. The Parotid is commonly not larger than the Maxillary, and is often of an inferior size, as in the Dog. In this Animal, and in the Cat, the Parotid is of a crescentic form, and embraces the Concha of the Ear, extending as far as the Maxillary Gland. In the Cat, the Sublingual Gland is wanting, H 3 andns OF THE MOUTH, ho. [Paet U and in tlie Dog-, appears little more than a prolongation pf the Maxillary. The Amphibious Quadrupeds which are of the Car- nivorous kind, have the Salivary Glands pi-oportionally very small. In the Seal, as already noticed, there are no Parotids nor Sublinguals ; but there are two Maxil- laries, a great and a small, the common Duct of which opens in the ordinary place. In SoUpeds, the Salivary Glands are of great si^e, and have a lobulated appearance. In the Horse, the Parotids are very large, and, extending above and behind the Concha, go beyond the angle of the Jaw; the Duct runs by the under part of the Masseter, and opens upon a Papilla pppositje to the Fourth Molaris of the Upper Jajw'. The Maxillary Gland extends along the side of the Larynx and Pharynx, having also a Papilla where the Duct opens at the side of the Fraenum Linguae. The Sublingual Gland opens by many small orifices aiTanged along the under part of the side of the Tongue. In Ruminants, also, the Salivary Glands are of great size. In the Ox and Sheep, the Parotid Duct passes by the inferior part of the Masseter, and perforates the Check opposite to the second and third Superior Mo- lares. The Maxillary is remarkably long here, and extends, as in the Horse, along the Larynx and I’harynx, hav- ing a Papillary Valve at its termination. The Sublin- gual is very long in these Animals, has a single Duct whichPart L] 119 OF MAMMALIA. II 4 In which runs by tlie side of the Inferior Maxillary, and opens upon a Papilla near the termination of the latter. In the Hog among the Bellucc^ there are two Sublin- guals on each side, one anterior to the other; the pos- terior, which is narrow and very long, is placed on the outer side of tlie Maxillary, extending from the angle of the Jaw to the Anterior Sublingual, and sends out a single Duct, which terminates at a little distance from the end of the Maxillary Duct. The Anterior Gland perforates the Mouth by several openings in a range. In the Cetacea, tiie Salivary Glands appear to be wanting. Foramen Incisivum, vel Ductus Incisivzis.—This ap- pears in all Quadrupeds, but varies considerably in size in different Genera. In the Ape, it is simple below, but opens into each Nostril above. In Carnivora, So- lipeds. Ruminants, c^'C. it is double, and forms a com- munication between the Mouth and each Nostril, by which fluids pass from the one cavity to the other. TiIROxVT. Velum Palati.—This, in Quadrupeds, is in general similar to that in Man, only it is proportionally larger. Except in the Aj)e, it does not send out any prolonga- tion in die form of an Uvula. In the Flephant, it de- scends under the Epiglottis, in consequence of which, liquors pumped up can be received from the Proboscis Mithout getting into the Larynx.120 OF THE MOUTH, &c. [Part I,. In the Cetacea, the Velum is changed into a Canal, by which the Posterior Nares are prolonged about the pyramid ot' the Larynx, and their posterior part conti- nued witli the Pharynx. Pharynx.—The Pharynx, in Mammalia in general, lias nearly the same structure as in l\Ian, but stronger on account of the necessary force required in their ho- rizontal situation. It exists in all Vertebral Animals, but particularly in Mammalia. In many, as the E,le- j)hant, Bear, &c. there is a jiroper Pliaryngeal Muscle, which is merely a continuation of the Muscular Coat of the Esophagus. Bursa: Faucium.—Many Species of the Ape, and also of the Mannot, are pi'ovided with Glandular Sacs, or Cheek Pouches, termed Bursae Faucium, placed behind the Palate, and serving as a temporary resei'voir for the Fo(xl. The Camel has this structure also, which is supposed to be intended for containing fluids to lubricate the Throat in the sandy deserts. The Orniihorrynchus is also found to have Cheek Pouches. In the Cetacea, the Pharynx is separated into two by the Larynx, whidi forms a pyramid that can rise as high as the Posterior Nares, and, by entering these, can allow the aliment to pass by each side of it to the Esopliagus. There is also a particular Canal which rises from the Pharynx, and is attached to the margin of the Posterior Nares, or Blowing Holes. The cir- cular Fibres of this Canal form a Sphincter, which, by contracting round the Pyramid, cuts off the communi- cation121 Part I.] OF MxVMMALIA. cation between the Blowing Holes, Mouth, and Pha- rynx. Esophagus.—In all the class, the Esophagus is nearly cylindrical, and is continued from the Pharynx to the Stomach. It is long in all, except in the Cetacea. It is narrow in most, but wide in Animals which swallow voraciously. In the generality of Quadrupeds, the Esophagus is distinguished from that in Man, by two rows of Mus- cular Fibres decussating each other, and running in a spiral but opposite direction. On this. Rumination is commonly explained, though the same structure exists in different Carnivorous Animals which do not rumi- nate, as the Dog, Cat, Bear, &c.; but in ruminating Animals, the Coats of the Esophagus are remarkably strong. Many Plicae are formed upon the inner surface of the Esophagus, which, as in Man, are most evident when it is most contracted. There are also many Fol- licles here, from which a Humour is plentifully sup- plied. Of the Teeth. All Mammiferous Animals have Teeth in their Jaws, with a few exceptions, as the American Ant- eaters, Scaly Lizards, and the proper Whales. Be- sides the Teeth proper for mastication, some, as the Dog, Lion, Tiger, &c. have Canine Teeth, serving partly as offensive weapons, and partly to enable the Animal to lay hold of and lacerate its prey. Others, as the Elephant, Hippopotamus, and Walrus, have Tusks,j;.”2 OF THE MOUTH, &c. [Paet I. Tusks, serving chiefly for offensive or defensive wea- pons. In the Seal and the Cetacea^ all the Teeth are of the same form, and answer merely the purpose of seizing the Food. The Tusks, or Defences, of the Elephant, Wal- rus, and Narwal', are incrusted over with a substance liarder than the body of the Tusk, but softer than Enamel. The Osseous substance composing these Tusks, which, in the class Belluce in general, and some of the Whale tribe, forms the Ivory, differs from that of other Teeth, in being of a harder and denser texture. The Ivory of ,tlie Elephant’s Tusk is distin- guished from that of all others by tlie Curvilinear Lo- zenges which appear very distinctly in the polished trans- verse section of a Tusk, Tire Ivory .of this Animal is softer than that of others, and acquires a yellow hue by exposure to the air. That of the Hippopotamus is harder and whiter than the former, and preferred by Dentists in the making of artificial Teeth. The most remarkable Teeth are those of the Cajjc Ant-eaicr, which are formed of cylinders composed of small Tubes, shut at the triturating surfaces, and, when cut transversely, appearing like a section of a Cane. The I'eeth of the Ornithorrpnehus are observed to have a similar structure. The Bodies of Teeth, in some Animals, have a par- ticular colour, as in the ASg’wirrf/, Beaver, &c. where they are brown anteriorly; and in several Pecora, where the Molares are covered by a hard black substance of a glass}" appearance. In the Ox and Sheep, it is of a kronze colour. The123 OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] are The Front Teeth of the Upper Jaw are fixed In the Intermaxlhary Bone, which includes also the Tusks of the Elephant^ Walrus, and Narzcal. Tlie number and form of the Teeth varies considera- bly in different Mammalia. In the Glires, the cutting edges of the Incisores are in the form of a Chizel. The Teeth of some Animals, as the GUrcs, are co- vered widi Enamel only on their anterior surface, but this is continued along the roots; hence, as the Osseous part v/ears down sooner than the Enamel, the Animal is still capable of gnawing hard substances. The Teeth of the Glires, the Tusks of th Elephant and Hippopotamus, and others of a similar nature, are in a constant state of growth, in consequence of a Pulpy Vascular Substance Avithin them, upon which the Os- seous part of the Tooth is formed ; so that the interior part of the Tooth advances to supply the portion worn t down, The Teeth of the Lower Jaw of some of the Ani- mals of this order, as the Squirrel, Rat, and Beaver, are remarkable for the length of their roots, which nearly equals that of the Jaw itself, though a small por- tion only appears beyond the Gums. They are curved back under the roots of the Grinders, and sometimes go as far as the Goronoid Processes. The Tusk of the Narzcal occupies the place of an Incisor, and is almost constantly found single, the other one being either early destro^^ed, or lurking in the Jaw. The Qanine Teeth of the Upper Jaw, in Mammalia,OF THE MOUTH, &c. [Part I. the are placed close to the Intermaxillary Bones, and differ more in the different Genera than either the Incisores or Molares. In many of the Jpe kind, and more espe- cially in the larger Carnivorous Animals, as the Lion or Tiger, the Canine Teeth are of great size ; and in some of the Swhie tribe, as the Bahiroussa, they ap- proach so near to a circle, as to render them ill adapted to the purposes to which they are applied at an early time of life. The Molares exist in every Animal possessing Teeth, the JVarwal excepted, which has only the long Tusk. The situation and appearance of the Grinding Teeth vary considerably in this class of Animals. In the Feroe, the Bodies of these Teeth are entirely covered with Enamel; and the same thing takes place in the Animal called Mammoth, or Carnivorovs Elephant; while the Grinders of Quadrupeds living chiefly on vegetables, and the Incisores of the Horse, have plates of Enamel extending into the Substance of the Tooth, and mixed in a tortuous manner with the Osseous part. These Animals have, besides, an additional substance in their Molar Teeth, differing in its nature from the two others, being like Tartar, and termed by Dr Blake, Crusta Petrosa, and by Cuvier, Cement. This mxy be readily seen either in a longitudinal or transverse sec- tion of the Tooth of a Horse or Ox, but still better in the Tooth of an Elephant, where it forms a large pro- portion of the mass. It is then distinguished by the greater degree of yel- lowness and opacity of its colour, and is considered byOF MAMMALIA. Part I.] 1.^5 the two Authors mentioned above, as being originally deposited from the Capsule which forms the Enamel. It fills the interstices on the surface of the different layers of the Enamel, and unites the layers together. It is the softest of the three component parts of the Tooth, and is more readily affected by acids and fire than the Osseous substance. It is sometimes, as in the Cow, Sheep, &c. not completely formed in the centre of the Tooth, in consequence of which Cavities are left, which become filled with extraneous matter. The Enamel in the centre of the Incisores of the Horse has no Crusta Petrosa, but is filled with blackish Tartar, which extends only a short way into the Tooth, of course soon disappears, in consequence of mastica- tion. This is termed by Farriers the filling up of the Teeth, or rather Mark of the Mouth, and forms a cri- terion of the Animal’s age. In many Animals which do not ruminate, as SoUpeds and the Elephant, the Bodies or Crowns of the Mola- res have their grinding surfaces placed nearly in a hori- zontal direction. In Ruminants, their surface is some- what oblique, the outer margin of the Upper, and the inner margin of the Under Tooth, being the most pro- minent. In the greatest part of the Feroe, especially of the Dog and Tiger kind, where the Molares are of an irre- gular wedge shape, the lower ones close within the up- per, and act like scissars. All the three sets of Teeth exist in the Ape tribe, in Carnivora, in Solipeds, and in Ruminants naturally deg- iiuit« IOF THE MOUTH, &c. [Part I. 126 iltute of horns, and in the lidluac^ except the Elephant and two-horned lihinocevos; but in the Human Species only arc the three sets disposed in an uninterrupted sc- ries, and the Teeth of one Jaw placed at an early age directly opposite those of the other. The Fore Teeth of the Upper Jaw arc wanting in Horned Cattle, and also the Canine, except the Stag-; Avhich has rudiments of the latter, and the Mus'ka which has two very long curved _Tusks in the Upper Jaw. The Canine Teeth are wanting m the Glires. In Carnivora, and such other Quadrupeds as have the Canine longer than the other Teeth, there are va- cancies in each Jaw for lodging the corresponding Ca- nini of the opposite Jaw, In many Quadrupeds, a large vacancy is likewise left between the Incisors and Grinders, in the middle of which, in the Horse, a small Tusk is found in the Male, though seldom in the Female. The Elephant has Grinders in each Jaw, and two immense Tusks, termed Defences, in the Upper Jaw, but no other Teeth. The Tusks are placed with the concave side upward, and belong chiefly to the Male. Mr Corse Scott found, that in general they are so small in the Female, as not to pass the Margin of the Lip, The Dolphin and Porpoise have small conical Teeth, all of equal size, arranged in a line in both Jaws, and serving merely for securing the Food. The Phjscter, or Spermaceti Whale, has these in the Lower Jaw only. In the Narwal, or Unicor7i Fish, therePart I.] 127 OP MAMMALIA. the there are no other Teeth than the two long Ttisks fixed in the anterior extremity of the Upper Jaw. In the Genus Balcna, or Proper Whale^ the sub- stance termed Whale-hotie^ covering the Palatine Sur- face of the Upper Jaw, supplies the place of Teeth. It forms numerous parallel plates, which are placed across the Jaw, and descend vertically into tire Mouth. They are connected to the Jaw by a Ligamentous Substance, and send, from thrir opposite edges, fringes of long Fibres, which cover the whole surface of the Jaw. The composition of this substance is found to be nearly the same with that of Horn, Hair, &c. The Whale-bone is considered by Naturalists as serving to retain the A- nlmal’s prey. In tlie Ornithorrynchus Paradoxus^ there are a few Horny Teeth fixed to the Gum. There are also Teeth, of a similar nature, fixed to the root of the Tongue anJ top of the Throat, which may prevent the Food fronr escaping till properly masticated. Changes of the Teeth. t In the Ape tribe, as in Man, there are no small Mo-' lares among the Deciduous Teeth, but, instead of these, two large Molares in each side of both Jaws. The Permanent Teeth, in Quadrupeds, are observed to be formed, as in Man, within Capsules; and they lie in Cavities hear the roots of the Temporary Teeth, and get into the vacancies which these leave when they drop from[Part Ii OF THE MOUTH, &c. are the Head. The changes of the Teeth have been most attended to in the Horse. According to the observa- tion of Farriers and otliers, the Milk Incisors appear at the beginning of the third week after birth. The four middle of these, termed the Pincers^ fall in the SOih month, the four following in the 42d, and the four external, or Corner Teeth, in the 54th. Ihe Per- manent Corner Teeth do not grow so soon as the other Incisors; and when they appear, they scarcely project beyond the Jaw. The hollow in the middle of the Incisors, filled with blackish Tartar, is worn off by use between the fourth and eighth year, after wdiich it is entirely effaced. In the Corner Teeth it remains longer, in consequence of which the Animal’s age can generally be knowui with considerable accuracy. After this period, the age is only judged of by the length of the Incisors, which are in a constant state of growth. Of the Molares, the tw'o first in each Jaw appear at the end of the first week, the following at the end of the third, and the small Anterior Molaris between the fifth and sixth w'eek. The first back Molaris appears near the end of the first year, the second near that of the second year. Be“ tween the second and third year, the first Milk Molares fall, the third drops in three years; and it is not till five or six years that the last Molaris appears. The Temporary Molares are distinguished by being longer from before backwards than the permanent set. In Ruminants, there are three !Milk IMolares, whichPart I.] OF MAMMALIA. 129 arc replaced by three others, and three Permanent Mo- lares. The Milk Molares are distinguished from the permanent set, by being longer from before backward tlian in a transverse direction. The age of the Sheep is known by the replacing of the Incisors. In the Asiatic Elephant, the Temporary Tusks drop out in twelve or thirteen months, and are succeeded by the Permanent Tusks, which continue growing through life. The Molares appear in the second week after birth ; they are succeeded by the second in the second year; tlie third succeed in the sixth year; the fourth in the ninth year; others follow, but their epochs are not known. The succession in the iMolares of the Elephant, is particularly observed by Mr Corse, (Phil. Trans. 1T99.) There is never more than one Grinder, and part of an- other, seen through the Gum. The Body of the ante- rior one is gradually worn away by mastication; the rest of the Tooth is carried off by absorption, the pos- terior Tooth coming forward to supply its place. The same Processes are found to be repeated at least eight times, and each new Grinder is larger than the for- mer. The first, or Milk Grinder, is composed of four se- parate plates, or partial Teeth, which gradually unite, and cut the Gum between the first and second week after birth. Each succeeding Grinder has an additional number of plates, the last having in all about twenty. It is observed, besides, that every new Grinder takes a year or more than the former for its formation. From VoL. IV. I the[Part I. OF THE MOUTH, &c. the slow manner in which the Tooth advances, a small portion of it only appears beyond the Gums, the rest of it beinff concealed within the Jaw, The Tooth is O completed, therefore, first at its anterior part; and by the time the posterior part appears through the Gum, and is fully formed, the anterior is worn off by masti- cation, so that an Elephanfs Tooth can never be ob- tained in a perfect state. Something of the same kind happens in the Grinders of Herbivorous Animals; when the Bodies of these are quite entire, the roots are not fully formed; and when these are complete, the Grinders are worn dowm. A similar succession, but to a less degree, has been observed to take place in the Sus EthiopicuSy or Wild Hoary (Phil. Trans. 1801.) Number131 Part I.] OF MAMMALIA. Number of the Teeth in each side of each Jaw, in a Jew of the different Genera of Mammalia. Genera. % Sup. Incisures. Inf. Incisures. Sup. Canini. Inf. Canini. Sup. Mulares; Inf. Mulares. Some Apes, 2 2 1 1 5 5 Other Apes, 2 O 1 1 6 6 Bat, o /V 3 1 1 4.5 5.6 Rat, 1 1 0 0 3 3 Hare, 1 1 0 0 5 5 Mole, 3 4 1 1 7 6 Bear, 3 3 1 1 5 5 Dos, Wolf, Fox, - 3 3 1 1 6 Wolf. 7 Cat, 3 3 1 1 3.4 3 Otter, 3 3 1 1 4.5 5.6 Solipeds, 3 3 1 0 6 6 Camel, 1 3 1.2 1.2 5 5 Musk and some Deer, 0 4 1 0 6 6 Other Deer, and Rumi- nants with hollow horns. 0 4 0 0 6 6 3 3 1 1 7 7 Elephant, 1 0 0 0 1.2 1.2 Off '■ I 2OF THE HEART, &c. [Part I The OF THE HEART AND BLOOD^ VESSELS. The Heart has the same general appearance in all JVIammalia as in the Human Body, varying only a little in some particulars. A Pericardium belongs to every individual in the class, but, on account of the manner in which the Heart is situated, it has less connexion with the Dia- phragm. The form of the Heart in the Ape, Horse, and Ox\ is that of an obtuse Cone; in other Quadrupeds, it is cither rounded, or short and wide, or long and narrow, or notched at the point. In the Ourang-outang, the Heai't possesses nearly the same obliquity, and rests on the Diaphragm nearly in the same manner as in Man. The rest of the Monkey tribe have the point only touching the Diaphragm, and turn- ing a little to the left. In other Quadrupeds, the Heart is placed in a longitudinal direction, and rests upon the Sternum, the point touching the Diaphragm in some, and placed at a distance from it in others. At the meet- ing of the Venae Cavae in the Right Auricle, a fleshy projection is found, termed Tuherculum Low£ri, which fs not found in the Human Body.Fart I.] OF MAMMALIA. I 3 in The Eustachian Valve is present in some Quadru- peds, and wanting in others. In .?»dult Quadrupeds, the Foramen Ovale is gene- rally shut, as in Man. In the Amphibious Mammaliay it is commonly shut, though found open occasionally. It is also shut in the OrnithorrynchiiSy which has four Cavities to the Heart, as well as the Human Species. The Pulmonary Ventricle, in Mammalia, is gene- rally placed more on the right side of the Aortic Ven- tricle than in Man, and is so formed, that when the Heart is cut across, the section of the Left Ventricle is observed to form a circle, and the other an appendix to that circle. The proportional size of the Cavities of the Heart are found to be nearly the same as in Man ; but in the Dolphin^ the walls of the Right Ventricle are observed to be nearly as thick as those of the Left, and the Columnas Carneae corresponding. The Left Ventricle differs less in Mammalia than the Right. In some, the Columnae Carneag are more slen- der than in Man ; in others, less in number ; and in a few, the inner side of the Ventricles is almost smooth. The Tricuspid Valve varies in the number of Columns hxing it to the sides of the Ventricle. In some, it has three, as in Man ; in others, four; in some, only two. The Mitral Valve, in the L/ore, O.r, and Sheep, forms large Monticuli, which fix it to the w'alls of the Ven- tricle. The Semilunar Valves have nothing remarkable in them; their strength corresponds vvith the strength and size of the Arteries to which they belong. The Pulmonary Artery differs from that in Man only[Part I. 134 OF THE HEART, &c. in the sulxllvision of its principal Rranches, which cor- respond with the number of the Lobes of the Lungs. According to the observations of Cuvier, the sides of the Pulmonary Artery, in the Dolphin and Porpoise, and probably in the other Cetacea, are as thick as those of the Aorta, as if the Pulmonary Circulation here differed from that in other Animals. In a great number of the individuals of this class, the principal Arteries are quite similar to those in Man, the Branches varying in their distribution according to the variety existing in the parts on which they are dis- persed ; but in others the Aorta, as in Solipeds, Rumi- nants, the Hog, &c. divides, near its origin, into two Trunks of unequal size. The smaller passes forwards, and sends off the Arteries which, in other Animals, come from the Arch of the Aorta; the other, twice as large as the former, goes backwards, and supplies the place of the Descending Aorta; hence the names of Anterior and Posterior Aorta are applied to these Ar- teries. In some Animals one, and in others two, common Trunks arise from the Anterior Aorta. This Artery * sends off Vessels corresponding with the Subclavians and Carotids, which, in some Animals, arise as in Man ; in others, they are sent off equally in the two sides. In old Ruminants, and in some other Quadrupeds, as the Hog, two flat Bones are frequently found at -the beginning of the Aorta, known by the name of Bone of the Heart. 'I he Posterior Aorta differs from the descending Aorta O inOF MAMMALIA. 135 Fart I.] in the Human Body, chiefly in the size and distribution of its Branches, corresponding with the division and ex- tent of the Intestines, and the magnitude .of the other Abdominal Viscera. Of the peculiarities of the Arteries here, the most re- markable is that of the Rete Mirabile, found in the greater number of Quadrupeds, particularly among Carnivorous Animals and Ruminants. It is situated at the sides of the Sella Turcica, and consists of a division of the Internal Carotids within the Head into serpentine Branches, which afterwards uniting, form a Trunk, tliat divides again nearly as in the Human Body. An uncommon division of the Arteries, also, has lately been observed in some Animals, as the Sloth and Lemur^ where the Trunks separate at the top of the Os Humeri and Os Femoris into Branches, which, after descending nearly as far as the Elbow and Knee, re- unite, and are then distributed in the usual way. In some Animals, as the Cetacea, a considerable Plexus of convolutions is found in Arteries of particu- lar parts of the Body, as the Intercostals, Branches from the Subclavians to tlje Chest, and Branches to the . Spinal Marrow and Eye. In many Animals, the common lilacs are wanting^ and there the Aorta divides into two Branches, which supply the place of External Iliacs, while a common Trunk, from the extremity of the Aorta, sends off* the Sacra Media and Arteries analogous to the Internal Iliacs. The Sacra Media, in Quadrupeds, is generally of con- I 4 siderable[Part I. OF THE HEART, &c. , 136 the siderable size, on account of the length of the Tail. In the Seal, and other Amphibious Quadrupeds, a large Ilio-lumbar Artery from the Aorta sends out the Hy- pogastric, the Aorta afterwarcs dividing into two Ar- teries which correspond with the Femorals. Cetaceous Animals, destitute of a proper Pelvis, have the Aorta divided into two portions, which supply the postei'ior parts of the Body. The Vems have the same general distribution as in Man; and in some parts, particularly in the Pelvis, they are observed to vary less than the Arteries. The Valves of the Veins Correspond in Animals in general, with few' exceptions. In some Quadfujieds, as the Horse, Dr Haller found Valves at the origin of the Mesenteric and Haemorrhoidal Veins, and in those of the Spleen ; and in the Dog and Sheep, he met with them in the Pulmonary Veins. The Pulmonary Veins, like their corresponding Ar- teries, vary in the number of their principal Branches, corresponding with that of the Lobes of the Lungs. 'J he most singular appearance among the Veins is found in the Foot of the Horse, where they form an intricate Plexus, which completely covers the surface of the Coffin Bone. In some Animals, as the Seal, there is a remark- able distribution of the Veins of the Kidney, which form a Net-work, that is expanded over the surface of that Organ. In several of the Amphibious Quadrupeds, and in137 OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] OF the Cetacea, particular vessels are much enlarged, es- pecially the Posterior Cava at the Liver. This is most remarkable in the Seal, where it is dilated into a Sac or Reservoir, which receives and retains the Blood while the Animal is under water, till it can come to the surface and respire.138 OF THE ABSORBENTS [Part L j OF THE ABSORBENTS, The Absorbent System of Mammalia consists, as In IVIan, of Lymphatics^ Lacteals, Conglobate Glands^ and Thoracic Duct. The structure is the same as in the Human Body. The Absorbents are provided uith Valves, and have also two general terminations in the opposite sides of the Neck. They differ a little in the distribution of iheir Glands, and in the origin, course, and termination of their principal Trunk, the Thoracic Duct. The chief parts of the Absorbent System Avere first discovered in Quadrupeds, the subjects for examination being more readily come at here, and the contents of the Lacteals being of the same white colour as in the Human Body. The Lymphatics in Quadrupeds, as in IMan, have been seen in the different parts of the Body, excepting the Brain and Spinal IMarrow, in which their existence has not yet been ascertained. In the Posterior Extremities of the larger Animals, as the Hoi'se, they are easily traced ; and in the Inter- nal \'iscera, in some Animals, as the Ox^ they can be sccuPart L] OF MAMMAUA. 139 seen to greater advantage than in the Human Body. In the Sheep, Goat, &c. the Lacteals run in 'I’runks of considerable size, and are readily detected in the Car- nivora, as the Dog, by feeding the Animal with Milk, or other nourisliing substances, and a few hours after- wards laying open the Abdomen. Tlie Absorbent, or Conglobate Glands, are fewer in number,, in this class of Animals, but larger, and more collected together, than in the Human Species. The Glands of the Mesentei-y, in many of the Mammalia, particularly in Carnivora, are united into a mass, term- ed Panereas Aselii, in consequence of the Discoverer mistaking them for that Organ. In a few Animals, they form two groups, or in some one group, and an accessory one. In Ruminants, they are dispersed over the Mesentery, corresponding seem- ingly with the great size and length of the Intestines in Herbivorous Animals. The connexion between the Absorbents and their Glands is observed to be less general in Quadrupeds than in Man, there being few instances where Branches reach the Thoracic Duct in the Human Body, without previously entering one or more of them ; whereas, in Quadrupeds, it appears that many Absorbents go di- rectly to the Common Trunk, without the intervention of Glands. The internal structure of the Absorbent Glands has been observed in some of the larger Animals of the class, and in a few, as Solipeds and Cetacea, they have been found to have more of a Cellular than Vascular ap- pearance ;OF THE ABSORBENTS [Part I. uo pearance; but the ultimate structure here, as in Man, is not yet sulhciently ascertained. The course and termination of the Thoracic Duct varies a little in different Animals. In some, as the Doff, it forms two distinct Canals; in others, as the Sca-otte?-, three or four I’runks are found. It forms, more constantly than in Man, a Vesicular enlargement, or Receptaculum Chyli. It makes no circuitous turn previous to its termina- tion, the horizontal situation of Quadrupeds allowing a readier course to its contents. 1 here are also fewer Valves here than in Animals moving in the upright position. In the Horse, only a single pair is observed ; while in the Ape, as in the Human Bod}', there are several Valves, to favour the passage of the Lj'mph and Chyle, or at least prevent their reflux. OP I141 Part I.] OF MAMMALIA. OF THE LARYNX, The Larynx agrees, in its general structure, with that in Man. It differs chiefly according to the form of the Cartilages, the size and form of the Ventricles, and of certain Sacs connected with these in particular Animals. Most of the class have a Muscle peculiar to the Epi- glottis, and termed Hyo-Epiglottideus. It is commonly cylindrical; arises by two portions from the Base of the Anterior Cornua of the Os Hyoides, and is inserted into the middle of the Epiglottis, which it serves to raise from the Glottis. The Epiglottis exists in Mammalia in general, with very few exceptions. It is so small in the Bat tribe, as to be scarcely observable. It appears to be deficient, or very small, also, in some of the Mouse-like Animals, as the Glis Esculentis, or Rel-Mouse. In the Ape tribe the Larynx differs little from that in Man, excepting that the Ventricles are a little larger. In the Ourang-outang the Ventricles of the Larynx are very large, and each divided into two by a semi- partition ; above which is a Foramen, leading to a large discovered by Db Camper. Tliese Sacs are unit- edOF THE LARYNX, &c. [Part L 142 ed together by Cellular Substance, but do not commu- nicate with each other, except through the medium of the Larynx. Many of the other Jpes and Baboons^ though not the whole, have also in their throats large single or double Sacs of different forms, communicating with the La- rynx by one or two Foramina, between the Os Hyoides and Thyroid Cartilage. These Sacs vary in size in dif- ferent individuals, and become larger as the Animal ad- vances in years. During respiration, part of the air enters these, w'liich in time of crying are dilated, but can afterwards collapse by tbe pressure of the surround- ing Muscles. It is supposed by some, that the voice of these Animals is rendered proportionally weak, from part of the air getting into the Sacs. In the American MonKeys, the Arytenoid Cartilages are diminutive, and turned back ; the Cuneiform Carti- lages, and Cellular Substance, on each side, form anteriorly a cushion, which touches its fellow; and, -with the other parts of the Larynx, they compose a strait passage, turned like an which gives the flute-like Voice in the Whistling Monkeys. The Holding Apes have the anterior part of the Os Hyoides formed into a spherical cavity, by which the* tones are produced that are heard at a gi'eat distance. The principal differences in the Larynx, among the other orders of this class, are the following: In the Ant-eater^ which is observed to be dumb, Bm- MEXBACH found the Larynx entirely Osseous. In the Ornithormjnckus, each of the Ventricles has only one Ligament of the Glottis. Among143 Part I.] OF MAMMALIA. Among the GUres^ some, as the Porcupine, have scarcely any vocal organs; others, as the Rat, have them more distinct. In the Ferae, \X\q Bear tribe have a singular Larynx. The Cuneiform Cartilages are in form of stilets, with the posterior extremities on the outside of the Aryte- noid Cartilages. The Kangaroo has the Arytenoid Cartilages remark- ably large, but neither Ventricles nor Ligaments of the Glottis. There is a great difference in the structure of the La- rynx among the Ferae. The Dog tribe has a triangular Epiglottis, and large Cuneiform Cartilages projecting outwards, with distinctly marked vocal Ligaments. The Ventricles of the Larynx, in these Animals, are two deep chinks, opening, not into the cavity of the La- rynx, but towards the surface of the Epiglottis. The opening between the Epiglottis and Arytenoid Carti- lages, is in form of anyT The Cat has two Membranes under the Posterior Li- gaments of the Glottis, which are considered as the cause of the purring noise peculiar to that Animal. In the Cat, Lion, Tiger, and other Animals of this family, the Superior or Anterior Ligaments appear to be the vocal; the Ventricles are wanting. The Horse has no anterior Ligaments of the Glottis, nor Ventricles strictly so called, but a Falciform Mem- brane, attached by its middle to the Thyroid Cartilage, while its extremities run along the external edges of the Rima Glottidis. This structure is considered as the cause of neighing in that Animal. Before the vocal I-igaments144 OF THE LARYNX, &c. [Part L I.igaments there is a large passage in each side, some- thing in the form of a Ventricle, leading to a great Sac, most part of which is covered by the I'hyroid and Ary- tenoid Muscles. Behind the Base of the Epiglottis there is also a Foramen, leading to a cavity situated under the anterior edge of the Thyroid Cartilage, but having no communication with the Lateral Sacs, The Jss has the same kind of Falciform Membi’ane with the Horse, and the same number of Pouches or Sacs, but their Mouths are smaller; while the middle Pouch in the Ass is sensibly larger tlian in the Horse, and is the part from which the sound is considered ta come in braying. In the Mule produced from the Male-Ass and the Mare, or between the Stallion and the She-Ass, it ap- pears that the Larynx is more like that of the Mother, though the voice rather resembles that of the Ass. The Anterior Sac in the Mule is larger than in the Ass. Ruminants have a simple Larynx. The Arytenoid Cartilages are curved back, and form more than half of the Glottis. Their inner surfaces touch each other. There are neither Anterior Ligaments nor Ventricles in some of the individuals of this order, as the Ox and Sheep. In some of the Deer kind, a passage is found at the Base of the Epiglottis, which leads to a Sac similar to that of the Ape tribe, and is in them situated between the Epiglottis and Thyroid Cartilage. The Pig has two Bags situated above or before the Ligaments of the Glottis, which occasion the grunting of the Animal. In the Elephant the Epiglottis reaches behind the PosteriorPart I.] 145 OF MAMMALIA. Posterior Nares, above the Velum Palati. Between the Thyroid and Arytenoid Cartilages there is a deep cavi- ty, by which the drink passes, while the Glottis remains open, and the Animal blows the drink into the mouth, after pumping it with the Proboscis. The other parts of the Larynx have the ordinary structui*e. In the Cetacea the Larynx forms a conical Tube> which penetrates the back-part of the Nostrils, to allow the Aliment to pass by its sides. The Tube is formed by the Arytenoid Cartilages and Epiglottis. It has neither Glottis nor vocal Ligaments, and it is generally supposed that there is no voice here, there being no Organs for the purpose. The Muscular Fibres of the Pharynx form a particular Canal, which goes to the posterior Nares, so as to intercept the communication between the Nostrils, Mouth, and Pharynx. The Muscles of the Larynx in Quadrupeds agree in general with those in Man, varying chiefly according to the form of the Cartilages, and the different cavities be- longing to them. Thyroid Gland.—This substance belongs to Mamma- lia alone. In the different Genera of the class, it is proportionally smaller than in Man, but otherwise ap- pears to be similarly situated, and to have a similar structure. It is constantly composed of tw'o Lateral Portions, and occasionally surrounds a part of the Trachea. It is plentifully supplied with Blood-vessels, but is destitute of any Excretory Duct. In the different orders of the class it varies in the form and size of its Lobes, which in some, as in Man, VoL. IV. K ara[Part I. UG OF THE LARYNX, &c. OF are connected by a cross Slip; in others they are at a distance from each other, and without any connexion. In the Cetacea Mr Hunter did not find the Thyroid Gland. Cuvier, however, detected it in the Dolpliiuy where it was divided into two portions, which w'ere at a distance from the Larynx,, and near the anterior ex- tremity of the Sternum. Trachea:—This presents, in general, the same struc- ture as in the Human Body but the number of the Bronchi vai'ies with that of the Lobes of the Lungs. There is great variety in the number, form, and ex- tent of the Cartilaginous Rings of the Trachea. They approach nearer to a circle in Quadrupeds than in Man; the opening behind, therefore, is proportionally .smaller. Many of the GUres have rings almost complete. In some of the Ferce, as the Bear^ Lion, &c. they form about three-fourtlis of a circle. Among other Animals, as the Ox, the extremities of the Cartilages meet behind in an acute angle. In a few, as the Lama, Seal, Lamanthi, Dolphin, and' Porpohe, the Cartilages of the Trachea, and of the beginnings of the Bronchi, are observed to form a com-' plete circle.Part I.]f OF MAMMALIA Numlrer K 2 OF THE LUNGS, agree in form, connexion, and structure, with those in Man, but the left bears a greater propor- tion to the right. Here, also, they are closely applied to the walls of the Thorax. In the Amphibious Quadrupeds and Cetacea, they are of a firmer texture, and have more of an elongated and flattened appearance. For the most part there is a division into Lobes, and these are rather more deeply divided than in the Hu- man Body. The greater number is in the Right Side. In many,' as the Dog, one of the Lobes goes behind the Heart, and between it and the Right Side of the Mediastinum; in consequence of which a Bulla of air is frequently observed upon opening the cavity of the Thorax, which has been mistaken by some for air confined, during life, between the Lungs and their Pa- rietes.OF THE LUNGS ii« [Part L OF Nmibcr of the Lobes of the Lungs in a Jew of the merous Genera of'this Class. Names. Right Side. Left Side. Ourangs and some Apes, 3 2 Most other Apes, 4 2 In some. 4 3 Ornithorrynchus, 4 1 Bat, _ _ . 1 1 Rat, _ _ _ 4 1 Hare and Rabbit, 4 o /V Bear, _ _ , 4 2 Dog, 4 3 Lion, - 4 3 Opossum, 1 1 Seal, _ - - 2 1 Solipeds, 1 1 Most Ruminants, 4 2 Pig, 4 2 Elephant, 1 1 Rhinoceros, 1 1 Porpoise, 1 1OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] 149 OF THE STOMACH. The shape, proportional size, and general appearance of the Stomach, vary considerably in different Mamma- lia. In most Carnivorous Quadrupeds, it bears a strik- ing resemblance to that in Man. In some, however, it is long ; in others, of a roundish form. In many, it is simple; in several, it is divided into different apart- ments. It is termed complicated, when the Cavities within it have the same appearance; and compound, when they are of a different nature, particularly within. The number of the Coats of the Stomach is the same as in Man, but the Muscular and inner Coat vary much in appearance. In Carnivora, the Muscular Coat is proportionally strong, to enable the Stomach to act more powerfully on its contents. The inner surface, as in the Human Species, appears to be destitute of Glands, though they are observed in a few about the Cardia and Pylorus. In the Carnivorous Quadrupeds, the Cardia and Py- lorus are more directly on the extremities of the Sto- mach, than in the Herbivorous; in consequence of which the Food has a readier passage into the Intestines. K 3 InXoO OF THE STOMACH £Paut I. In Ruminants, these two openings are closer together, leaving a Cul-de-Sac on each side; from which circum- stance the food is longer detained. In the Ape tribe, particularly the Orang-outang, the Stomach varies little in its general appearance from that in Man. There is but one Stomach in Animals destitute of Teeth, as the Ant-eater, and also in the Ornitliorryn- chiis, which has a Horny Papilla near the Pylorus. In many of the Glires, the Stomach is uniform ex- ternally, but divided into pouches internally. In the Rat tribe, the greater number have two pouches, some three, some only one. In the Hare and Rabbit, it is also single, but has tw'o apartments internally, formed by its inner Coats. The left portion is lined with a Cuticle, the right is Villous, and the food is observed to be more digested in the latter. In the Opossum, the Stomach is peculiar in having its two openings close to- gether, resembling those of Birds. The Beaver has a Glandular Body at the Cai dia, resembling the second Stomach of Birds. In the Porcupine there are three Stomachs of unequal size. Of the Ferae, the Kangaroo Rat has the Stomach di- vided into two large Guts; and in the Kangaroo Giant, it forms only one, which is so large as almost to fill the Abdomen, and is formed into Cells by longitudinal Muscular Bands. Uhcre arc two remarkable Appen- dices at the Cardia. In Carnivora, the Stomach is larger in proportion than in ^lan, and is placed more in a longitudinal direc- tion. It is also thicker and stronger, in consequence of ■whichTaut L] OF MAMMALIA. 151 'vrhipli hard substances are more readily digested. In the Dogi the Rugae go length-ways between the Cardia and the Pylorus; the Esophagus opens so freely into the Stomach, as to enable the Animal to vomit readily. In the Bear^ Lion, See. the Stomach is divided by a slight contraction at its middle, into two portions. .In the former, the Esophagus enters directly at the end of the Stomach. The Cat lias a single Pyrapiidal Sto- mach. Among Amphibious Animals, as the Seal, some have a single Stomach, with the Esophagus entering directly at its ej^tremity. In others again, as the T? i- checus, or Sea-cow, it is complicated, and is I'emarkable, according to Cuvier, for having a Gland as large as a person’s head, in which a fluid, like that of the Pan- creas, flow's into the Stomach by numei'ous pores. Some Herbivorous animals, as the Horse, have the Stomach simple, and uniform in its appearance exter- nally ; but the inner surface has the left portion covered with Cuticle, as in the Esophagus, and the right Vil- lous. The Muscular Coat has several Layers running in diflerent directions. In Herbivorous Animals in general, the Esophagus terminates in such a manner in the Stomach, as to pre- vent the ready return of the Food; and this is consi- dered as one of the causes of these creatures not having the power of vomiting, like the Carnivora, excepting in extraordinary cases ; in Ruminants, however, which do,; not vomit, the passage into the Stomach is free. The inner part of the Stomach, in some other. Animals, as the Hare, Rabbit, and several of the Mouse or Rat kind, has the left portion Cuticular, K 4 w'hilc152 [Pakt I. OF THE STOMACH ■while the right has the Villous appearance. In this, also, the Food is found to be more fully digested ; from which circumstance this kind of Stomach forms a medium between that of Ruminants, and the Stomach of Animals that is entirely Villous on the inner side. All Pecom have a plurality of Stomachs, some two, others three, and some four. In all of them, the Stomach is compound, and more complicated, both in structure and appearance, than in any other order of Mammalia. "I hey are the only Quadrupeds which ru- minate their Food. Taking the Ox for a general ex- ample of the structure of this Organ, the ^rst Stomach is the Ventriculus, or Paunch, which occupies a great part of the Abdomen, especially in the left side. It is by much the largest of the four. It has two Sacs or Appendices externally, and is slightly divided into four apartments internally. U he inner surface is covered with innumerable Papilla?, of different size in different parts. The second Stomach is termed Reticulum, Bonnet, or Honey-comb Bag, aiul appears as a Globular appendage of the Paunch. It is placed at the right side of the Esophagus, and anterior part of the first, and has ge- nerally a thicker Muscular Coat than the former. Its inner surface is arranged into regular Pentagonal Cells, and covered with fine Papilla?. The third is the smallest, and called Omasum, or Many Plies. It is situated on the right side of the Paunch, is of a Globular form, and has a thinner Mus- cular Coat than the two former. It consists of nume- rous broad Laminae sent off from the Internal Coat, running in a longitudinal direction, alternately varying inPart I.] 153 OF MAMMALIA. in breadth, and covered with small Granulous Pa- pillae. Tlie fourth Stomach, the Obomasum^ Veniriculus In- testinalls, Caille or Red, has a Pyriform appearance, and is next in size to the Paunch. It has large longitu- dinal Rugae, covered with Villi, in which circumstance it is somewhat like the Stomach of the Dog-. The Muscular Coat is still thinner than that of the former. The fourth Stomach, in the Foetus, with the Milk cur- dled in it, forms the Runnel; but it is observed, that in all Animals, there is only one digestive Stomach, and this has also the power of curdling Milk. The in- ner surface of the three first Stomachs is covered only with a fine Cuticle, while that of the fourth has the ap- pearance of being a real Mucous or secreting Mem- brane. Upon examining the openings of the Stomachs, the Esophagus is observed to open into the right of the Paunch, and at the same place by a Gutter, into the second and third Stomachs. The third leads in, by a narrow opening, to the fourth; and this terminates in the Duodenum, which has a Pylorus at its origin. In the different individuals of this order, the Sto- mach varies in proportion as the Animal advances to- wards maturity. While it is young, and fed upon Milk, its fourth Stomach is the largest. The Milk passes at once into this Cavity, very little going into the other three. As soon as the Creature begins to eat Solid Food, it acquires the power of ruminating. Jt lays hold of the grass, &c. by pressing it with th^ Tongue against the roof of the Mouth, and, by the Gums{PAilT I, OF THE STOMACH 15i Of of the Upper and Teeth of' the Under Jaw, assisted by a twist of the Head, tears it across. After a slight mas- tication, the Aliment passes into the Paunch, and from that, by small portions, into the second Stomach. "VVlien a considerable quantity lias been swallowed, a morsel is thrown back with velocity from the Stomach into tlie Mouth, where it is accurately ruminated, and then carried directly to the third Stomach, the groove being contracted between this and the two fli'st. This Pi’ocess is continued till the whole of the Food has un- dergone the same operation. In the tliird and fourth Stomachs, a more complete digestion takes place. J'he Stomachs of the other Horned Rummants differ little in their nature from that of the Ox. In the Deer, the Paunch has three Pouches appearing externally, and the Papilla; are less conspicuous than in the Ox. In the Dromedary, Camel, and Lama, there are four Stomachs, as in Horned Rummants, but the structure is different. In the Camel and Lama, there are nume- rous Cells in the substance of the first and second Sto-- machs, formed by sta'ong Muscular Bands crossing eacli other at right angles. By the action of the.se, it is sup-- posed the Animals can open or contract at pleasure the mouths of the Cells, which serve as Reservoirs of the drink, so as to expel the contained fluids, or retain them even for several days. The water they take in is' observed to be rendered turbid in the first Stomach, by the mixture with the Food, but becomes pure in the second. After rumination, the Animal can draw the- third Stomach to the Esophagus, and receive the rumi- ifatccl I'ood, without polluting the water in the Cells. ‘OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] 155 OF Of the order Bellucc^ the Pig possesses a globular Stomach. The great Cul-de-Sac has an Appendix an- teriorly, which makes this Organ appear double. The Pylorus has a large Tubercle, forming a kind of Valve, which can retard the passage of the Food. The Stomach of the Elephant is about four times as long as it is wide. It has vthick PugEc, and five large Plicae running transversely. 1 he Stomach of the Rhinoceros^ with the whole Ali- mentary Canal, as examined by Mr Thomas of Lon- don, was found, in external appearance, very similar to that of the Horse. In the order Cetacea^ the Stomach is complicated, as in Ruminants, consisting of three, four, or five divisions In the Dolphin and Porpoise, it is quadruple ; but the Stomachs fdlow each other in succession. <156 OF THE L\TESTINES [Pakt I. OF THE INTESTINES. Of the Intestines in general.—The Intestines are in general longer in Mammalia than in the other classes of Animals. In Birds, Reptiles, and Fishes, they gra- ilually become shorter, till at last they scarcely equal the length of the Body. The proportional length varies e.Kceedingly in different Quadrupeds. Jn some, as the Ram, it is very great; in others, on the contrary, as in certain Species of Bats, the Intestines are only twice as long as the Body. The length of the Canal corresponds with the Food upon which the Animal is accustomed to live. It is ge- nerally shorter in Carnivorous than in Herbivorous Animals ; but to this rule there are exceptions. The Seal, which is a Carnivorous Animal, has a very long Intestinal Canal; the Sloth, on the contrary, has a very short one, though it feeds upon vegetables. In Omnivorous Animals, as the Rat and Pig, the length of the Canal forms a medium between those which feed upon Flesh, and others living upon vege- table substances. A difference of length has also been observed between the Intestines of wild and tame Animals, some of the . formerI Part I.] OF MAMMALIA. 157 former having the Canal shorter, and others longer, in proportion. In the Wild Boar and Cat, the lengtli of the Canal, compared with that of the Body, has been found much less than in the tame Animals of the same Species. In the Wild Rabbit, on the contrary, it is- considerably greater than in the tame one. Mammalia, as well as most other Vertebral Animals,, have a distinction into Small and Great Intestines. The Small are commonly the longest, and are Villous •within. The Large are thicker in their Muscular and Internal Coats, and are seldom furnished with Villi in- ternally ; which last circumstance forms a distinction between the two parts of the Canal, when other marks are deficient. In Carnivorous Animals, the Canal is generally more nearly equal in size than in the Herbivorous. The Muscular Coat is proportionally stronger, and there are no distinct Valvulae Conniventes. From these cir- cumstances, and also from the nature of the Aliment, the process of digestion is in them more quickly per- formed. The Horse and Elephant are remarkable for the di- mensions of their Colon, which, in the former, is several yards in length, while in a middle-sized Hog, it is only found to be about eight or ten inches long. ' Many Quadrupeds, as the Badger, Rell Mouse, &c. have no distinction into small and great Intestines ; but in such Animals, an Appendix or Caecum forms the boundary between the parts corresponding with these* Where there is no Appendix or Caecum, a Valve, cor- responding to the Valvula Coli, points out the differ- ence ;OF THE INTESTII^ES [Part I' 158 eiice ; and wliere even this is wanting, as in the Sloth, Armadillo, and Hed^e-liog', the large Intestines are dis- tinguished by the want of Villi, by the thickness of their Coats, and particularly by the strength' of theif loneitudinal Muscular Fibres. O Carnivorous Quadrupeds, for the hiost part, have nd proper Colon. Instead of it, many have a widened Intestine, but not tacked up by Ligaments into Cells. On the contrary. Animals that feed on vegetables have a true Colon or Caecum, or both ; and the Colon is in general remarkably large in proportion, and di- vided into Cells by Tendinous Cords running lengthi ways, to retard the motion of the Food ; but to the above rules there are many exceptions. Among the Carnivora, some of the Bat tribe have a Cellular Colon. Tlie Oposmm, a real Carnivorous A-i nimal, has a long Caecum. The Intestinum Caecum is found in such Animals as have the Intestines distinguished into small and great! It appears merely as a jirolongation of the great Intes! tine at the termination of the small; but it varies much in size, form, and structure, in different Animals^ and not only in the same order, but in different Species of the same Genus. In many, particularly of the Cam’i- voi’a, it is wanting. In Carnivorous Animals, the Cmcum is small and uniform on its external surface, but is destitute of Cells. Exceptions occur to this rule, as some of the Bats and the Opossum, &c. which have the Caecum of great size. Herbivorous-Animals in general have a large Caecum', and this, like the Colon, is formed into Cells; but RummantsrOP MAMMALIA. 159 Part 1] Ruminants are excepted, their Ca'cum h ing uniform, and of moderate size. Omnivorous Animals, also, as the Monlcey, Rat, and Hog, have generally a large Caecum tacked up into Cells Man, the Ourang-outang, and tlm Phascotomc, (a New Holland Rat), are the only Animals yet found with a ^ aecum and Appendix Vermiformis distinct. Ixi most others, there is a Caecum without an Appendix. \w ?,ome Ant-eaters, two small Caeca : in other Animals^ only an Appendix ; and many have neither the one nor the other. In Animals without a Caecum, the Intestines are every where nearly equal in diameter, contracting only in a small degree towards the extremity of the Rec- tum. The number of the Coats in the Intestines, in Mam- malia, are the same as in the Stomach, varying in thickness and strength according to the size of the Ca- nal, and the manner of living of the Animal. The Mus- cular Coat is generally stronger. The Valvulse Conniventes of the small Intestines are much less distinct in most of the Animals of this class, particularly the Carnivora, than in Man and the Moiikey tribe. In some, however, even of the Herbivorous kind, they are entirely wanting. The Villi are always present, and generally more evi- dent than in Man. The Papillae are very distinct upon the inner side of the Intestines in many Mammalia. In the Seal, they are remarkably conspicuous, and are foundOF THE INTESTINES [Part I. ICO found througli the whole length of the posterior extre- mity of the small Intestine. OJ the Intestines in particular.—In the Ape kind, the Intestinal Canal bears a strong resemblance to that of Man; but the whole of them, except the Ourangs, want the Appendix Vei'miformis. Tlie Bradypoda have the Canal of a moderate length, most of the Animals of this class being of the Carnivorous kind. The Sloth^ on the contrary, living on vegetables, is remarkable for the sliortness of the Intestines. In the Ornlthorrynchus.f the structure of the Intestines differs from that in other Mammalia. There are many transverse Pliem resembling those in Fishes ; the Cae- cum is in form of an Appendix Vermiformis ; the Co- lon enlarges towards its outer extremity, forming a Cloaca, as in Birds. It has many Sinuosities in the right Hypochondrium ; and upon the inner Membrane, Plicae run in a longitudinal direction. The Bat tribe, though Carnivorous, has a Cellular Colon and a lai-ge Caecum. They have the Intestinal Canal the shortest of any of the Quadrupeds, being only once and a half, or twice the length of the Body. In the Vespertilio Vampyr-us, on the contrary, or RousettCy whicli lives on vegetables, it is proportionally longer than in the Human Body. Among the Glires or Rodentia, which feed upon ve- getables, the Intestines are from six to sixteen times the length of the Body; but their diameter is not very con- siderable, though there is generally a very large Caecum. / InVoL. IV. L The Part I.] OF MAMMALIA. IGI In the Rat, Hare, Castor, and Porcupine, the Cajcum is so large as to fill a great part of the Abdomen. In the Rat tribe, which are Pmnivorous, the Canal is shorter than in the other Glires; but the Caecuin surpasses the size of the Stomach, tliough it varies much in the different kinds. The Appendix Vermi- formis, as already noticed, is found only in the Phas~ colome. In the Hare and Rabbit, the Cascum is longer than the whole Animal, and is furnished internally with a pe- culiar Spiral Valve. The Colon is also dilated. In the Beaver, the Rectum and Urethra have a com- mon termination. Of the Ferae, the Hedge-Hog has neither a proper Colon nor a Caecum. The Badger, which is not strict- ly a Carnivorous Animal, and the Glis Esculentus, or RelUmouse, have no distinction between small and great Intestines. The Hedge-Hog, Bear, and some other Animals of this kind, that walk upon the soles of their feet, and are Omnivorous, have a long but narrow Canal, and no Caecum, nor distinction of large Intestines. In the Opossum, there is a long Colon, and a large Caecum. The Kangaroos have no Cells in the Canal, but have a large Caecum. In the Dog, the Duodenum is fixed at the Pylorus to the Liver, but afterwards a large portion hangs loOse in the Abdomen. The inner side of the Intestine has Valvulae Conniventes, but placed in a longitudinal di- rection. The Caecuin makes turns upon the Ilium.162 OF THE INTESTINES [Part L The Colon, furnished with a circular Valve, is small and short, as in other Canuvorci^ and, without making any circuitous turn, goes directly across the Abdomen to form the Rectum. The Cat has the great Intestines considerably dilated^ but the Caecum is remarkably short. Of the Amphibious Mammalia, the Seal has the Colon about double the size of tlie small Intestines, and the Caecum is short and rounded. In the Manatus, or Sea Cow, the Intestines are scarcely six times the length of the Body, though the Anitnal is of the Herbivorous kind. SoUpeds have a much shorter Canal than the other Ilcrhivora, but the great Intestines are enormously di- lated. The Colon begins by a Cul-de-Sac, and its Ca- vity is divided into Cells by three strong Muscular Bands. The Caecum is of a conical form, and so large as to equal the size of the Stomach. Pecora, of all other Quadrupeds, have in general the Canal of greatest length, and the Ram has the longest of any. A great part of the Intestines, in this order, form concentric turns, and there is little difference with respect to their size. The Duodenum is large, and forms a kind of Pouch ; but the Colon and Caecum are of mo- derate bulk. They are uniform on their surface, and have no Ligaments tacking them up into Cells. Of the order Belhioe.—In the Hog, the small Intes- tines are united, and have conspicuous Papillae. The Caecum and Colon are of considerable size. In the Elephant, the Canal is short, but very large. The smallOF MAMMALIA. 163 Part L] • L 2 The small Intestines have many large Valvulae Conniventes, The Colon forms two transverse convolutions, like Pouches, which cover most of the Intestines. It is tacked up externally by longitudinal Muscular Bands, and has large Cells also internally; 'i he Valvula Coli is of a circular form. The Caecum is pn)portionally short, but very large, and, like the Colon, is formed into Cells. The inner side of the Canal has no Villi, but numerous short Papillte. In the Rhinoceros., the small Intestines are remarka- bly short, but the surface internally is increased in its extent by numerous Processes of an oblong form, co- vered with conspicuous Villi, and appearing to supply the place of Valvulae Conniventes in Man. The Cae- cum of this Animal is still larger than that of the Horse., and adds much to the bulk of the Abdomen. The Intestines, in the Hippopotamus, have nearly same width for about two-thirds of their length, but after- wards become almost double the diameter throughout. In the Cetacea, the Whales are observed to have their Intestines proportionally longer than the other Carnivora. There is no great difference in their size; they diminish gradually from the Pylorus to the Anus. They have no Caecum nor Cells, but are furnished with longitudinal Plicae of a zig-zag appearance, and are covered with Villi. In the Porpoise, the Guts are long, and, as in the other Cetacea, are all nearly of the same size, diminishing a little from the Pylorus to the Anus. There is no Caecum, nor Valvulae Conniventes, in any part of the Canal.[Part I. OF 1'HE INTESTINES I(j4 The Peritoneum and IMesentery exist in all Vertebral Animals, of course in the different Animals of this class, and are nearly of the same nature as in the Hu- man body, the ^lesentery being longer or shortei’, and. running in a sti’aight, or an oblique, or in a circular direction, according to the length and course of the Intestines. In many Quadrupeds, it is longer than in INIan, partly owing to the depth and length of the Ab- domen. ^ Of the Anus and its Muscles.—In IVIammalia and Birds, the Anus is placed at the posterior extremity of the 'rrunk of the Body, directly under the origin of the Tail, and generally in a direction opposite to the Mouth. In almost all Mammalia, it is a simple ori- fice, which only gives passage to the Faeces. In the Sloth and Beaver, the Rectum and Urethra have a com- mon termination. In the Ornithorrynclms, the end of the Rectum is I'emarkable, for dilating into a Bag, which receives the Faeces, Urine, and the Sexual evacua- tions. The following numbers represent nearly the proper- tional length of the Intestinal Canal to that of the Body, in a few of the Mammiferous Animals mentioned in this work, the measurement being in a straight line from the Nose to the Anus. Taking the length of the Body as 1, that of the Intestines is as follows:—In the Ape tribe, varying from 6 to 8 ; in the Sloth, 3 to 1; Ant-eater,^', Armadillo, ?>', OrnithorryncliiLS, h \ Bat, 3; Scpdrrel, Rat,8-, Guinea Pi^, 16; Wild Bab- hit, 11; Tame Babbit, 9; Beaver, 9 ; Hedge-hog, 6 ; Mole,OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] 16*0 Mole, 8 ; Brown Bear, 8 ; White Bear, 10; Opassions, iVom 2 to 3 ; Kangaroo Rat, 5 ; Kangaroo Giant, 10; Dog, 5; Wild Cat, 3 ; Tame Cat, 5; Lion, 3 ; Otter, 5 ; Seal, 28; Horse, 10; Ass, 9; Camel, 12; Drome- dary, 15; Ram, 28; Sheep, 23; O.r, 22; Deer, 12; Pig, 16; Asiatic Elephant, 10; African Elephant, 7; Walrus', 6 ; Porpoise, 11. L 3 OF I[Part I. OF THE LIVER 166 OF THE LIVER, PANCREAS, AND SPLEEN. Liver. The Liver is found to exist, not only in the different individuals of this class, but in every class and order which have a Heart and Blood-Vessels. The Liver, in Mammiferous \nimals, has nearly the same proportional size, and is almost of the same colour and structure, as in Man ; but there are commonly a greater number of Lobes, and these more deeply divided than in the Hu- man Body ; the Porta, however, and its eminences, are wanting. The middle Lobe, when there are more than three, is generally divided by two Fissures, of which the right receives the Gall-bladder, the left the Suspensory Ligament. In the Ourang-outang, the Liver is very similar to that in Man; but in the rest of the Ape tribe, the Lobes are deeply divided. In some Animals of the ordci-s Bradypoda, Cheirop- tera, Gllres, and Ferce, the Lobes are fewer ; but in most of them, they are in greater number, and much more1G7 OF MAMMALIA. Part I.] The L 4 more distinctly separated from each other, than in Man., In the Ferae, in particular, as the Dog, Cat, Lion, t<:c. the Fissures are very deej), and run through the whole mass. The Lobes divided in this manner, have been considered by some Authors, as allowing the parts to slide on each other, in Animals witli very flexible Spines ; while others are of a different opinion. In the orders Solipeda, Pecora, Bclluae, and Cetacea, the Lobes are less numerous than in Man. The Hog has four, but the Horse, Ruminants, Ele- phant, and Cetacea, have only two, and these not more separated than in the Human Subject. In the Horse, Ox, &c. with rigid Spines, the Liver is in one piece, and has no Ligamentum Latum, being sufficiently sup- ported by the Muscles of the Abdomen. Gall-Bladder. — The Gall-bladder exists in all the Ape tribe ; in the Bradypoda, excepting the Sloths ; in most of tlie Ferae, as the Weasels, the Dogand Cat kind ; and in most Ruminants ; but it is wanting in many of the Glires, particularly in several ol‘ the Rat tribe ; in Soli- peds ; in the Camel, Goat, and Deer, among the Rumi- nants ; in the FJephant and Rhinoceros among the Bel- lucc; and in the Trichccus, Porpoise, and Dolphin, a- rnong the Cetacea. All the Mammalia that want a Gall-bladder are vege- table eaters, excepting the Porpoi.'ie and Dolphin. Its situation is constantly under the right Lobe of the Liver, when tliere are two, and under the middle Lobe, when there are more than two, It has com- monly a Pyriform ajipearance, as in the Iluman Body; but in many it is round or cylindrical.OF THE LIVER, S:c. [Pakt 1. 1G8 Tlie Biliary Ducts, in tlie Ape kind, are furnished with Cells in the Cystic Duct, the same as in ]\Ian. In other iVIanimalia, they have a smooth appearance; the Kangaroo Giant, however, has numerous Glands and Cells in the Hepatic Duct. They vary much, in IMammalia, in their number, manner of uniting, and in their termination. When a Gall-bladder is present, the Hepatic Ducts commonly xinite into one Trunk, which communicates witli the Cystic; in other cases, they join it in succession. The Ducts terminate in the Duodenum, after piercing the Gut obliquely, much after the same manner as in the Human Body. The distance of the termination varies in different Animals. In the Glircs, it is found to be the least; and in the Kangaroo Giant, among the Ferce, it is the greatest, though some Authors have supposed, that the Biliary Ducts terminated nearest the Pylorus in voracious Animals. In the Ornifhorrijnchvs, two Branches of the Hepatic Duct unite with the Cystic near the Neck of the Gall- bladder. In some of the Bat kind, in Bats, and in the Porcupine and Hcclge-hog, many Hepatic Ducts join the Cystic near each other, or in succession. The Mole has two Hepatic Ducts, one of which receives the Cystic, then unites with the other to form the common Duct. In the Seal, one Branch of the Hepatic Duct joins the Cystic near the Neck of the Gall-bladder; the second unites with the Cystic near the insertion in the Intes- tine, and the Cystic Duct appears to form the common one. The Martin kind have the common Duct dilated into aOF MAMMALIA. 1G9 Fart I.] a second reservoir. In some Animals, as the HorsCy Avhich are destitute of a Gall-bladder, the dilatation of the Hepatic Duct, at its origin, is so large as to form a sort of reservoir for the Bile. In the Equus Quaggciy however, an Animal lately introduced into this country from the Cape, though the Gall-bladder is wanting, there is no dilatation in the Hepatic Duct. The Ductus Com- munis, in the Cat tribe, after perforating the Muscular Coat of the Intestine; forms an Ampulla with two a- partments, previous to its termination. In the Pig, the Ductus Communis is of great size, and terminates very near the Pylorus. In the Elephant, nine or ten Biliary Ducts unite into a Trunk, which forms an oval Sac in the substance of the Duodenum. This divides into Cells, one of which terminates in the Intestine by a small orifice. In the Dolphin and Porpoise, the Hepa- tic Duct terminates in the last of the Stomachs. Besides the Biliary Canals mentioned above, there are in some Animals, as the Hare, Dog, Ox, and Sheep, others, termed Hepato-cystic, which terminate in the Body or Neck of the Gall-bladder, and thus convey the Bile directly into it from the Liver. Paxckeas. . The form, proportional size, and colour of the Pan- creas, vary a little in different Quadrupeds; but the structure of this Conglomerate Gland is the same as in Man. In most Mammalia, it is separated into Branch- es, which extend in different directions, its principal part being always placed transversely behind the Sto- mach, and between the Spleen and Duodenum. In[Paht I. 170 OF THE PANCREAS In the Ourat7ff-oufangy it is of the same figure as in Man. In the other Quadrupeds, it is less or more di- vided. There is commonly but one Pancreatic Duct; it seldom happens that any Rranch goes off from it to terminate separately in the Duodenum. For the most part, the Pancreatic and Biliary Ducts have a common opening. Of the Apes, some have the Ducts united ; in otliers, and also in the Hare, Porcu- pine, and Hog, they terminate at a distance. In the Dog, one Pancreatic Duct goes into the Ductus Communis, and another into the Intestine. In the Cut, it termi- nates in one of the Cells of the Ampulla in the Ductus Communis. In most of the other Carnivora, the Pan- creatic and Biliary Ducts are generally united. In the Horse, they terminate separately, though near each other. In Ruminants, they commonly unite at their termination. In the Pig, the Pancreatic Duct ends at a great distance from the Ductus Communis. In the Elephant, as in the Cat, it opens into one of the Cells of the Ampulla in the Ductus Communis. Spleen. The Spleen is found not only in all Mammalia, but in most \'ertebral Animals, and is observed to diminish in the proportional size from Quadrupeds down to Fishes. Tlici’e is only one Spleen in Quadrupeds, but in the Dolphin and Poipoise, there are several of unequal magnitude, but so small, that if taken collertively, they wouldOF MAMMALIA. Part I.] 171 would not equal the size of the Spleen In Quadru- peds. The colour is commonly of a deeper red than in Man, but varies a little among the different individuals. The form also varies considerably. In many of the Ape tribe, it is triangular; in the Ornithorrynchus^ quadrangular, and larger than the Stomach ; among the Glircs, triangular, as in the Water Rat and Indian Hog, or long and narrow, as in the Rahhit; in the Carnivora, generally long, prismatical, and flat; in the Hoi 'se, flat and triangular; in Ruminants, generally large and long, in some of these, in form of a crescent; in others, as the Deer, flat and roundish; in the Hog and Elephant, it Is very long. The attachments of the Spleen are as in the Human Body, but it is often placed across the Abdomen. In Ruminants, it is fixed to the left side of the Paunch. The structure in the greater part of the Animals of this class, is somewhat similar to that in Man; but in the Ox and Sheep, it is peculiar for the appearance of its Cells. Omentum. The Omentum exists in all the Mammalia, and is pe- culiar to this class, though something similar to it is observed in several other Animals. It varies less in its extent and general appearance in the same Species, than in Man. It commonly goes as far in one direc- tion as the Kidneys, and in another, extends to the Pubes. In the Ourang-outang, the Omentum is as in Man; but[Pakt I. 172 OF THE OMENTUM but in tlic rest of the Ape tribe, it is similar to what is found in other Brutes. In Caryiivora and Ruminants, its extent Is very great. In a few Animals, on the con- trary, as the Bruxen Bear, it does not reach the middle of the Abdomen. The Omentum, in this class of Animals, frequently contains much Fat, and the spaces between the diffe- rent Strias of Fat are composed of the same kind of fine IMembrane as in the Human Body; but the quan- tity of Fat depends greatly on age and manner of living. In Herbivorous .“Animals, it is generally furnished with more than in the Carnivorous ; but in both, the quan- tity depends much upon rest. It is also affected by the season, moderate lieat increasing the quantity ; though, on the contrary, in Animals that remain benumbed in winter, the Omentum is charged with this substance. Many of these, as the Dormouse, the Marmot of the Alps, &c. have, in addition to the Omentum, two fatty Appendices, which cover the Intestines in the lateral parts of the Abdomen ; they have likewise a large quan- tity of Subcutaneous Fat, which may also serve as a re- servoir of nourishment; but the fatty appendages are absent in some of the Dormice, the Bear, &c. though these Animals are of the same nature with those that have them. Kidxeys. The structure of the Kidneys, in Q)uadrupeds, is analogous to that in Man; but they vary, in different Animals, m situation, form, relative thickness of their tWQOF MAMMALIA. Fart I,] • 173 two substances, and in the number and absence of Papilhe and Ini'undibula. The situation differs from that in the Human Body, in the right being commonly higher, or, strictly speak- ing, farther forward than the left. The form is most frequently like that in Man, but sometimes Globu- lar, as in the Dog; triangular, as in the Horse; and long, as in the Hog; but the greatest difference is in their division into Lobes. In many of the Glhrs, and in the different Fercc^ they are simple, each having a Cortical and a Medullary part, with only one Papilla. In many individuals of the class, they form what are termed Conglomerated Kidneys, being divided, not only in the F.cetus, as in the Human Subject, but during life, into a collection of smallei* Kidneys. In the Ox and Elephant, the Kidneys are separated into Lobes, of which there are in the former between twenty and thirty, and in the latter four; but they are deeply di- vided in the Bear, Otter, and other Amphibia, and in the Cetacea, so much so, as to appear like a bunch of grapes, and are connected only by their Sanguiferous and Urinary Vessels. These Lobes are for the most part numerous, being in the Bear fifty or sixty, and in some of the Cetacea, the number is still greater; but the cause of this division is not ascertained. It has been supposed that they are peculiar to Anknals which live in Water, or frequent that fluid; but the Broxvn or Land Bear has the Lobular Kidney, as well as the Polar one, which inhabits the coasts and water. The limits of the two substances are commonly dis- tinct,[Faut I. m OF THE KIDNEV linct, but they have not always tlie same proportional tlhckncss; In some, the Cortical being three or four times thicker than the Medullary part. The Medullary Sub.stance does not constantly terminate in Papillge. In the Dog', Cat, some of the Opossums, &c. the part which transmits the Urine forms a Cavity, the surface of which, however, is pale, like that of the Fapillse. In many Animals, as the Squirrel, Hare, &c. there is but one Papilla; in some of the Rat kind, two; in the deeply-divided Kidneys, commonly but one in the Lobe ; but in the Bear, each Lobe is found to have two Papilla?. The number of Infundibula corresponds with that of the Papilla?; when these are absent, the Pelvis is joined to the edges of the surface which sends out the Urine, and then, as happens in the Cat, it does not appear beyond the Kidney. In the Bear, and other Animals with Conglomerated Kidneys, the Infundibula unite in succession, and go to the Ureter without forming a Pelvis. The Ureters agree, in Mammalia in general, in their course, size, proportional length, structure, and termination. In the Lobulated Kidneys, the Arteries do not all go into the Sinus of the Kidney, many of them taking a more direct course t .vards the Lobes to which they are destined * Renal Glands. 1 he Ren*al Gland is generally situated at the Inner • part1T5 OF MAMMALIA. Part L] part of the Kidney, and varies in proportional size almost in every Species; but it appears to change with age much less than in Man. Its use here, as in the Human Body, has not been discovered, though it is considered as subservient to the Kidne}\ Among the Glires, it is proportionally large, being from a IStli to a 4tli part of the bulk of the Kidney ; wliile, in the Ferce^ it is in general not more than a 20th or a 50th part. The form, also, of this substance is very various. In Solipeds and Ruminants^ it is often round, or cylindri- cal, or conical. In many Animals, its external appear- ance is very similar to that of the Kidney. In the Ce- tacea, it is divided into numerous Lobules, which have generally two distinct substances, the outer yellowish, the inner deep browm, and softer than the outer. The external is often more than half the thickness of the Gland ; but the colour and distinction of substance vary much in different Animals. In some, as the Ele- phant, this is scarcely observed; in others, as in some of the Glires, three or more substances of different co- lours have been found. Bladder. All Mammalia have a Bladder of Urine, but it is more loose than in IVIan, and is completely covered by the Peritoneum. The shape is also different; the bot- tom, or Fundus, on account of the horizontal situa- tion of tlie Animal, being most dependent, becomes the widest part. In Herbivorous Animals, particularly inOF THE BLADDER m [Part I. in the Pccora, the Bladder is much larger, and more dilatable, but less thick and strong, than in the Carni- vora ; hence the latter are observed to evacuate the Urine more frequently. The structure of the Bladder varies in these two kinds of Animals. In Carnivora^ it is commonly com- posed of strong Fasciculi of transverse and lon- gitudinal Muscular Fibres. Some Herbivorous Ani- mals, as the Horse^ have also a thick Muscular Blad- der ; while other Herhivora, and some Omnivorous A- nimals, as the Ape tribe and Hog\ have the Bladder proportionally not thicker than in I\Ian. OFOF MAMMALIA. 1T7 Aet I.] VoL. IV. M domen,' OF THE 3IALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. Testes,—The Testes are found in all Male Animals, except in those of the very Ic^vest orders. In the different Mammalia, as in Man, they are two in number; but tliere is considerable variety in their situation and struc- ture. In the Ape tribe, in most of the Carnivora^ in Soli- pcdSy and in most Ruminants, they are placed in a Scrotum, with a Cellulair Partition between them. They are pendulous in such Animals as have Vesiculae Semi- nales, in W'hich the Semen is readily conducted to the Pe- nis. In the Kangaroo and Opossum, they are placed at the fore part of the Pelvis, in a Scrotum without any partition. In the Belluoe and Civet, they are situated under the Skin of the Perineum. In' the Otter and Camel, they lie under the Integuments of the Groin. In the Bat, Squirrel, Rat, Guinea Pig, Beaver, Por- cupine, Hedge-hog, Shrew, Mole, &c. they paSs from the Abdomen into the Scrotum, upon certain occa- sions, particularly at their seasons of sexual intercourse. In the Ornitliorrynchus, Elephant, Amphibious Mam- malia, and Cetacea, they remain constantly in the Ab-178 URINARY ANU MALE ORGANS [Part T. domen, in the vicinity of tlie Kidneys; and here, as in other cases where they are situated within that Cavity, tliey are covered by the Peritoneum, but want the Cre- master Muscle, which exists wherever the Testicle passes out of the Abdomen. Resides the Scrotum, the Testicle, as in Man, has its Tunica Vaginalis, and unless in Man and the Ou- rang'-outang, there is constantly a small passage leading between this C'oat and the Abdomen, in such Animals as have the Testes always in the Scrotum, but a large communication in those in which these Glands pass from, and to the Abdominal Cavity. In neither of these cases is the Animal in danger of Hernia, this being the highest part of the Belly, or at least, the Viscera press less upon the Abdominal Rings. The Testes are cover- ed also in Mammalia by the Tunica Albuginea, which differs only in thickness. The form of the Testes is generally oval, sometimes round, as in the Rat^ or very long, as in Amphibious Mammalia and Cetacea. The size, in many, increases greatly at rutting-time. The Seminal Tubes, in some Animals, are collected into Bundles, as in the Baboons., most of the large Carnivora., the Boar., &c.; but in most of the Glires, and especially the Rats, the 'J'ubes ai-e large and paral- lel, and so loosely connected as to be easily separated from each other. In several Quadrupeds, as the Dog, Horse, Ram, &c. there is a Body termed Corpus Highmoriamim, running longitudinally next the Epididymis, and composed of condensed Cellular Substance, which sends Septulm be- tweenOF MAMMALIA. Faut I.] 179 tween the different llundles of the Seminal Tubes of the Testicle, to protect and bind these together. The form and relative size of the Epididymis varies much in different Animals. In most Mammalia, it is fixed to the 'I'esticle, as in Man ; but in many of the GUres, as the Rat, and in Animals with a I’oucli, it is connected to the Testicle only by two thin Cords. 'J he Fasa Defercntia, as in Man, are thick and firmj but thinner when the Testes lie constantly in the Ab- domen. As in the Human Species, also, the Vasa Deferentia, in many Animals, are enlarged, and are Cellular internally, for some space previous to their termination. The Cells, in the Horse, and also in the Ram, have small orifices internally, from which a thick white fluid can be pressed into them. In \\\q Elephant, the dilatation is of a Globular form. Most Mammalia possess Vesicidce Seminales, which, in many, as in some Apes, but particularly in the Iledg-e-hv^, are greatly enlarged, like the Testicle, when these Animals are in season. The Vesiculae exist in Apes, in Bats, in the Glires, in the Hedge-hog and.ffa- coon, in Solipeds, and in the Bellucc. They are wanting in the Ornitho7'ryn''hus, in Car- nh'ora, in Ruminants, unless two small Glandular Cap- sules, considered by some as Prostate Glands, be taken for such,—and in the Cetacea. There is no rule yet known with respect to the presence or the absence of these. Their form and structure vary exceedingly in differ- ent Mammalia. They are commonly Membranous and Cellular, but in many cases they have a Glandular ]M 2 appearance180 URINARY AND MALE ORGANS [Paet I. appearance internally. When very large, as in the E- Icphant, they have a peculiar Muscle which covers them. In many Animals, each Vas Deferens unites with the Vesicula of its side; in others, the Vasa De- ferentia and Ducts from the Vesiculae terminate by a common opening in the Verumontanum. In the Ape tribe, the appearance of tlie Vesiculae Se- minales is nearly the same as in the Human Body. In most of the Glires they are remarkable for their great size. The V^esiculae of the Squirrel are particu- lar, in being placed upon the inner side of the Vasa Deferentia. In the Rat^ they are so large as t6 be partly without the Pelvis. The Guinea Pig has them of a long cylindrical form, and containing a cheesy-like substance. In the Hare, their place is sup- plied by a rectaligular Sac, which has in one part a Glandular appearance, and opens into the Verumonta- num along with the Vas Deferens. In the Hedge-hog, they exceed the size of the Testes, forming on each side four or five Fasciculi, each of which is composed' of a Tube wonderfully convoluted. The different' Tubes join into one Canal, that opens into the Veru- montanum along with the Vas Deferens. In the Horae, Boar, Elephxmt, and Rhinoceros, the Vesiculae are of great size, and form on each side a common Duct with the Vas Deferens. Vesiculae Accessoricc.—These are Membranous Tubes, varying in number, and situatc*d at the inner side of the \ esiculaj Seminales, or at the origin of the Ure- thra. They terminate by one or more Excretory Ducts, in common with the Vesiculae Seminales and Vasa De- ferentia,Part L] OF MAMMALIA. 181 ferentia, or separately. They are like the Vesiculae Se- mlnales in structure, and increase like them at rutting- time. They are observed also to be filled, apparently Avith the same kind of liquor. They exist in most of the Glires, as the Rat, and in the Hedge-hog and Mole among the Camivora, but ap- pear to be Avanting in the other Mammalia, the Ho7‘se excepted, in Avhich there is a cylindrical Vesicle placed betAveen the Vasa Deferentia, and terminating in the Urethra, before the openings of the Vesiculae Seminales and Vasa Deferentia. Prostate Gland.—The Prostate Gland, or something analogous to it, appears to exist in all the Mammalia, but A’aries exceedingly in its appearance in the different Species. In some, as the Dog and Cat tribe, it is single : in others, as Ruminants, it is double. In a small number, as the Horse and Elephant, it is qua- druple ; and in the Bat, it is lobulated. In most of the Animals of the class, the structure is :is in Man. In others, as the Horse, Ruminants, and the Elephant, it has Cavities A\ithin. In the Cetacea, it is Cellular, and of great proportional size. It gene- rally surrounds the beginning of the Urethra, and ter- minates in that Canal, by one or more openings, at the side of the Verumontanum, though sometimes consi- derably farther forAvards. In the Horse and Elephant, the Prostates are covered by Muscular Fibres, Avhich proceed from the sides of the Bladder. In most of the Glires, and in the Hedge-hog and M 3 Mole,]82 URINARY AND MALE ORGANS [Part I. Mole., tlie place of the Prostate is supplied by the Ve- sicula? Accessoria;. Coivjiers Glands.—They exist in most Mammalia, but are ^vanting in many, as the Hediic-Jiog, Mole., Dogy some of the Bear tribe, OlteVy SoUpedsy many Rumi- nants as the DeeVy in the Sealy and in the Cetacea. They are frequently found with the Prostate and Ve- siculae Seminales, or with the Vesieuhe Seminales and Vesiculae Aecessoria% or with the Prostate alone. , Their structu’'e varies considerably among the diffe- rent Animals ; sometimes they have a dense texture, as in i\ieApe tribe, Carnivoray and Ruminants; at other times, they have a Vesicular appearance, as in the rely Marmoty 8zc. They are constantly filled \vith a peculiar liquor, of a bluish-white colour, of the consistence of thick mucilage, Avhich passes into the Urethra by a single Duct. In ApeSy they arc proportionally much larger than in Man. In the kind, they are also remarkable for their size. In general, they have a Muscular Sheath which incloses them, and may enable them to expel the fluid which they contain. The number of these Glands is remarkable in Mar- supial Animals, four being found in some, and six in others. Penis. The Penis, in Alammalia, is constantly single and pcr\ious, and vaiies in size, form, and situation. In the Ape tribe and BatSy it is suspended from the Pubes, as183 Part I.] •OF MAMMALIA. as .in tke Human Body In tlie greater number of Quadrupeds, it passes towards the Umbilicus, where there is an orifice for its exit, and in its course is in- closed in a sheath of the Integuments, lined in some by a Cellular, and in others by a Ligamentous Substance. When relaxed in the sheath, it turns more or less in a waving direction, on account of its length. In most Ani- mals, it is situated under the Abdomen, having on each side one iMuscle, which arises from those at the middle of .the Abdomen, and is fixed to the Prepuce, and another, arising from the Vertebras of the Tail, or Muscles about the Anus, and inserted along die Penis, as in Carni- vora, or in the sheath diat covers it, as in Ruminants. The first is the Adductor, and the other the Retractor^ of the Prepuce. In some Animals, as the Squirrel, Dormouse, Rat, Marmot, Guinea Pig, Hare, Opossum, Lion, and Ca- mel, the Penis goes to the anterior part of the Pubes; or in some, it passes directly out of the Pelvis, then proceeds to the side of the Anus. Animals of this last kind are termed Retromingents, the Urine being voided backwards in both sexes, and they are, contrary to an ancient opinion, found to copulate forwards, like other Quadrupeds. In the Cetacea, the Penis is long, slender, in the forpi of an J\ and is situated within the Abdomen. iVhen they copulate, the Female turns upon her back, and the Male slides on. The length of the Penis varies according to its situa- tion. In the Lion and Cat kind, it is so short, that the 3ilale uses his Teeth and Claws, to enable him to cling 4 better*84- URINARY AND MALE ORGANS [Part I. better to the Female during copulation. The form is as variable as the length in this class. It is somewhat cylindrical in the Ape kind and Glires, slender in the Boar and BuminantSy cylindrical in the Horse and Ele- plianty large and conical in the Porpoise, and large, co- nical, and flat in the Dolphin. The Crura Penis, in Mammalia, are proportionally short. They adhere to the Bones as intimately as in Man. In the Dog and some Apes, there are two Corpora Cavernosa, with a Septum'Penis; in others of this last tribe, the Septum is wanting or incomplete. It is ab- sent in SoUpeds, Ruminants, and Cetacea, and in most Bellucc ; in which case, there is only a single Corpus Ca- vernosum. In the Elephant, there is a complete Septum. The Ornithorrynchus and Kangaroo are remarkable for having four Crura Penis, and the Urethra in the axis of the Corpora Cavernosa, which form a cylindrical fing, with a Septum both above and below it. In several Mammalia, there is a Bone in the Penis, for conducting it into the Vagina. This is found more frequently in such Animals as have no Vesiculae Seml- nales; in these the copulation being tedious, they turn nversc from each other during the emission of the Se- men. But it is found also in some where these Bodies arc present. It exists in most of the Ape tribe, though here it is small; in Bats, and in several Rats; in the Badger, Bear, Weasel, Dog and Cat kind; in the Seal, and in the Balena among the Cetacea. It is wanting- in the Opossum, Hyena, SoUpeds, Ruminants, and Bel- lua:. When present, it makes part of the walls of the ✓ Penis,Part L] 185 OF MAMMALIA. in Penis, the Corpora Cavernosa being then less exten- sive. It is commonly cylindrical, though sometimes furrowed, making part of the Urctlira. In the Bear, Dog, &c. it forms a large part of the Penis. In most of the Glires, and in the Cat, it is proportionally small. The Urethra, as in Man, is continued from the inner lining of the Bladder. In the Horse, it has been ob- served to have, externally, transverse jMuscular Fibres from one extremity to the other. It is divided into a Posterior and an Anterior Portion ; the former, at the sides of the Verumontanum, receives the Semen and liquor of the Prostate Gland. The posterior portion of the Urethra varies in length in different Genera. In some Apes, it is short, as in Man. In some other Animals, as the Civet Cat, Kan- garoo Rat, it is about half the length of the Canal. This portion is termed by some Masculcvr, as being Inclosed in a laver of Muscular Fibres, running more or less in a transverse direction ; and in some, as SoUpeds and Ruminants, it is of considerable thickness and strength, thereby assisting in the expulsion of the Se- men. The other portion of the Urethra begins by a Bulb, and is commonly placed under the Corpora Cavernosa, and inclosed by walls of the same nature with those of these Spongy Bodies. It begins behind by two Crura, each inclosed in a separate Muscle. The Bulb of the Urethra is thin in Carnivora, but of considerable strength in SoUpeds, Ruminants, and Bclluce. The Gians Penis in form and structure^ almost18G UrvINARY AND MALE ORGANS [Part L in every Genus. In some, as the Ape tribe and UorsCy it is dilated somewhat, as in the Human Species. In otliers, as tlie Ro«r, and many Ruminants^ it is conical and pointed, and in some turned to one side. Many others, as tlie Carnivora^ have it also conical, but with the addition of the Os PeniSy which commonly projects to the extremity of the Gians. In the Elephanty it is cylindrical like the Penis, and then contracts at the ex- tremity. In many, the Gians has a Tendinous appearance. In some, it is covered with hairs; in others, with scales; and some of the Cat tribe have retroverted Spinous Processes, which may assist in enabling the Male to cling’ to the Female till the Semen is evacuated. In the Badi^er, Boff, &c. or such as have the copula- tion tedious, there is a double Gians, or two Cavernous Prominences, one in the Body of the Penis, the other near its extremity. Behind the Prominences are two Veins, which are compressed by Muscles in the time of coition; in consequence of tvhich, the return of the Blood is prevented, and the double Gians kept in a state qf distension. Something of a similar nature is produced at this time in the Female ; the Vagina and its Corpus Cavernosum are contracted, by which the Animals are lield together, and often, contrary to their inclination, till the Semen is evacuated, and the parts relaxed. In the Opossums, tlie Gians is divided into two parts, each ol which is perforated for the transmission of the Semen. At the division of the Gians, is the passage for the Urine. In the Echidna and the Ornithorrynchus Paradoxv^y thePart I.] •J87 OF MAMMATJA. the Uretlira, destitute of Cavernous Substance, is in- closed along with the llectum, by a Constrictor Muscle, whicli terminates in the Cloaca, that receives the Se- men and Urine. The Penis is of considerable size, and, in the relaxed state, is situated in a Pouch. It terminates by two pervious Papillm, which conduct the Semen. The Ornithorrynchus Hijstrix has a siniilai* structui-e, but has a quadrangular Gians. Muscles^ &c. of the Penis.—The Erector Penis, and Accelerator Urinae, exist in all ^lammalia, but vary according to circumstances. Besides these, certain Ani- mals, as some of the Apes., the Hare, Ruminants, the Elephant, &c. have others, for supporting and giv- ing proper direction to the Penis. Of the Blood-vessels, the Arteries are nearly of the same nature as in Man. The Veins form an intricate Plexus on the Dorsum Penis, from which Branches go to those of the Groin. The Nerves are comparative- ly very large, and embrace the Veins as well as the Arteries. OFOF THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part I. \sn OF THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION The Female Parts in IMammalia may, as in the Hu- man Body, be divided into Internal and External, ■which vary much among the different individuals of the class. The Uterus is situated horizontally like the Body. It advances in the Loins to the back part of the Kidneys; is thinner, looser, and more tender, than in the Hu- man Species; and has, internally, a Glandular Mem- brane, but wants the transverse Rugse, which are found in Women. In general, it resembles an Intestine, and has a real Muscular Coat. Of the variations of the Uterus, there is, 1. A Simple Uterus zeithout Horns, and this generally pyramidal or oval, as in the Ape tribe, among the Qxta- drumana, and in the Toothless Animals and Sloth, ‘in the order Bradypoda. 2. A Simple Uterus with Horns, or Utenis Bicornis, ^ This, in some, is straight, in others convoluted, as in the greater ]:>art of the Glircs and Cai'nivora, Solipede, Ruminants, Belluo:, and Cetacea. 3. A Double Uterus, or Uterus Duplex, liaving the appearaqce189 OF MAMMALIA. Part I.^ appearance of two Horns, which open separately into the Vagina, as in the Hare and Rabbit.. 4. A Double Uterus with extraordinary lateral convo- lutions, or Uterus Anfractuosus^ as in the Opossum and Kangaroo. The Uterus of these Animals has several longitudinal folds, one of which runs through its whole length, and divides it into two equal parts. The Cor- nua Uteri, contracted at first, soon dilate into large Ca- vities, each of which sends out a narrow Fallopian Tube^ which is fixed to the extremity of the,Ovarium. From the corners of the Uterus, on each sliie, a Canal arises, which, after making a circuitous turn, approaches its fellow^, and terminates in the Vagina, by a narrow orifice, at each side of the iMeatus Urinarius. The Ovaria are as constant in the Female, as the Testes are in the Male. They are frequently situated- near the Kidneys, are of an oval form, and have the Ova buried in their substance. In the Pig, they are tuberculated; in the Hedge-hog, they are in the form of a cluster of grapes. The num- ber of the Ova corresponds with that of the yoUng, which the Female is capable of producing during her life. The structure of the Uterine Pubes is generally the Same as in the Human SptK'ies. In Uteri with Cornua, they are fixed to the latter, and are convoluted; but their diameter is always smaller than that of the Cornua. The Vaghia is a continuation of the Uterus, and lies in the same axis with tliat Organ. It is in proportion to the size of the Penis in the Male, and to that of the Foetus, which has to pass through it. It has generally Rugae running longitudinally, to favour its dilatation. In190 OF THE EEMALE organs [Faut I. In a few, as tlie Hyena, Dolpli'm, and Porpoise, the Rug-as run transversely, but exist only at the outer half of the Canal. In large Animals, the walls of the Va- gina, according to C'uvier, possess Muscular Fibres, which run both in a longitudinal and in a transverse di- rection. In the Ormthorrynchns, there is no Vagina. Vulva.—This, in some Animals, as the Rat, forms a longitudinal slit; in others, as the Hyena, it passes transversely. In some of the Glires, it is of a circular form, and sometimes, esjiecially in Animals Avith a Pouch, it is inclosed with the Anus in a circle. The existence of a Hymen in Quadrupeds, resem- bling in form and situation that of the Human Subject, is asserted by some late Authors of the first eminence, and denied by others of equal celebrity. In the Dog, Cat, Ruminants, &c, the Vagina is se- })arated from the Vulva, by a contracted circle, and in other Animals, by one or more Plica?, which are found to be effaced by coition, or bv one or more litters. In the Dear, Hyena, Alare^ and Ass, never yet covered, a strong Semilunar Fold appears in the under part of the orifice of the Vagina, which has been considered by .some as analogous to a Hymen, though this is no very strict resemblance to that hi the Human Female. At the under end of the Vulva, the Urethra is com- monly situated, and appears at the outer orifice of the Vagina, though, in many Animals, the orifice of the Urethra is a considerable way in from the \'ulva. The Nymphee are wanting in IMammalia; but the want of them is sujiplied, in coition, by the quantity of Rlood whicli distends the AT’ssels at this time. In place ofFart 1.] OF MAIMMALIA. 191 of Labia Pudendi, there is generally a thin border of the Integuments. A Clitoris is found in Quadrupeds in general, but placed in the lower part of the Vulva, corresponding with their horizontal atuation. In the Ape tribe, it is larger than in Women, and is also of considerable size in most of the Glircs, and in the Carnivora. The Pre- puce covering it forms, in some, as the Bear, a Pouch ; in others, as the Bitch, a Cul-de-Sac. In Animals where the Male has an Os Penis, the Fe- male has a small Bone in the Clitoris, as in the Gllres, the Bear, Cat, Lioness, &c.‘; but it is not found in the Dog kind. . In the Rat tribe, the Clitoris and orifice of the Ure- thra are placed in front of the Vagina, appearing like the parts of a Hermaphrodite. ‘ In the Opossum, the Clitoris has a Bifid Gians, cor- responding with that in the Penis of the Male. In the Lemur Tardigradus, belonging to the order Quadruma-^ Tia, the Urethra runs through the Clitoris, and termi- nates upon its extremity. Gravid Uterus. The changes which the Uterus undergoes by Impreg- nation, vary according to the nature of the Animal to which it belongs. The Os Tinccc, in all the different Mammalia, is closed soon after Impregnation, by a Gluti- nous Mucilaginous Matter, secreted by Glands or Fol- licles, which cuts off all communication between the inten'ial192 01- THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part I. internal and external parts, and prevents the lips of the Womb from growing’ together. Tlie Corpora Lutea are found after impregnation, and, in the Coxo in particular, are large and of a yellow colour; but in other Animals,- the colour varies accord- ing to the kind. The jMuscular Fibres in the Gravid IJterus become' less distinct than in the unimpregnated state. The changes of the simple Uterus without Horns, or that belonging to the Ape tribe, &c. considerably resemble those in "Woman. In the Uterus with Horns, the changes are accord- ing to the number of Foetuses the Mother carries. In Uniparous Animals, as the Mare^ the Foetus is confined to the Uterus. In the Coiv, it extends from the Uterus to one of the Cornua. In Multiparous A- ni'mals, one or more Foetuses are contained in each Hoi’n; in which last case, the Cornua, by their alter- nate contractions and dilatations, are formed into Cells. The Uterus Anfractuosus has the thinnest Coats of any, and suffers the least change by Impregnation. In" \\\QKangaroo after Impregnation, the communication be- tween the Vagina and Lateral Canals is completely shut up by inspissated Mucus. A minute orifice is describ- ed as being now close to the Urethra, and communicat- ing with the Uterus, though no opening is found here in the Virgin state. This, dilating at the time of par- turition, is found to discharge the Foetus into the Pouch or False Belly ; the parts, after delivery, re- turning to their original state. In the Opossum^ the changes by Impregnation arc not yet ascertained. 'Ihe connection between the impregnated L^terns and surfaceOF MAMMALIA. m JPart I.] VoL. IV. N , The surface of the Ovum is effected, in Mammalia, in three different ways. 1. In some, as in the Mare and the whole ex- ternal surface of the Ovum adheres to the Uterus firm- ly, or a bag-like Placenta is formed. 2. There is a simple Placenta^ Orbicular in some, a& in the Ape tribe and most of the digitated Mammalia, or forming a Zone or Belt, as in the Dag and Cat kind, &c. In several of the digitated Mammalia, the external surface of the Placenta has a white Glandular-like Body, or Corpus Glandulosum, inclosed in it, which admits of the easier separation of parts towards the latter period of Gestation. S. A third kind of connection is found in Rmniriaiits, where there are numerous Placentulae^ or Cotyledons^ upon the surface of the Ovum. These adhere to Glands, produced from the inner side of the Uterus. The Glamduloc Uterinae have many Papillae and Ca- verns, corresponding to Caverns and Papillae or Pro- ces.ses of the Placentulae. They are very Vascular, and possess a milky-like Liquor, which can be readily squeezed out from them ; but no injection can be made to pass from the Vessels of the Placentulae to those of the Glandulae. The Cotyledons and Glandulae adhere to each* other, the former inclosing the latter, from which comes their name ; but they can be readily separated from each other at the latter period of gestation. The Cotyledons are discharged with the After-birth, the Glandulae gradually diminishing in size after the contents of the Uterus have come away, but exist in the Uterus both in the gravid and unimpregnated state.194 OF THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part I. Tlie number and form of these excrescences vary in different Animals. In tlie Sheep and Cow^ they are from seventy to a hundred. In some Animals, they are concave externally ; in others, c.onvex. The Involucra of the Foetus consist of the outer Membrane, or Chorion, and the inner one, or Amnios, that secretes the liquor in which the Animal swims. The two Membranes, contrary to what happens in the Human Species, are covered with Blood-vessels derived from those of the Umbilical Cord. - Between the Chorion and Amnios, in most pregnant Mammalia, the Getace<^ not excepted, there is an Al- lantois, or Bag, but destitute of Blood-vessels, which receives the Urine from the Bladder by a Canal termed Urachus. In Soli^icds, the Allantois is every where interposed between the other two Membranes. In the Cow and Sheep, it covers only part of the Amnios ; and in the Soxc, it covers only a small part of that Membrane. In the Mare and Sow, there is a fleshy-like mass con- tained in the Allantois, which has been considered bv some as the sediment of the Urine, and termed Hippo- manes, or Horse-venom, the nature of which is imper- fectly understood. The Allantois is wanting in the Ape kind, and in the Hedge-hog, Dog, Cat, &c. in which is found a Mem- brane, termed Tunica Erythroides, which contains a watery fluid at the commencement of pregnancy, and is connected to the Mesenteric Vessels of the Foetus, but has no Urachus. Like the Vesicula Umbilicalis in the Human Foetus, this is more immediately connected with early pregnancy. ' Th^N 2 from Part 1.] OF MAMMALIA. 19a The Umbilical Cord is observed to be proportionally shorter in Quadrupeds than in the Human Species. In most of them, there are two UmbiUcal Veins, united into a Trunk near, or within the Body of the Foetus. In the Foalf the Cord has only a single Vein. Or THF Fcetus, and Organs which nourish it ro^ . SOME TIME AFTER DELIVERY. The peculiarities of the F'oetal Quadruped, with re- spect to structure, are not much different from those in the Child at the end of pregnancy. '1 he number of young produced, at a time, varies ac- cording to the kind, and is observed to be greater in tame than in wild Animals, as in the Sow and Cat. The Whale produces only a single Foetus, and once in two years. In suckling, she turns almost on her back, on the rim of the water. The nourishment of the Foetus, in Mammalia, is derived from the Mother’s Milk, which i^ secreted from the Mamma, and is peculiar to the Animals of * this class. The situation and structure of the Mamma vary ac- cording to the number of Foetuses which the Animal pro- duces at a time. InUniparous Afiimals, they are generally situated between the Hind Legs. In the Multiparous, they extend, in some, along the Abdomen, and in others, also along the horax. 'The Mamma is sur- rounded with less Fat in proportion than in Women; hence not bulky, till distended with Milk. The situation and number of the Teats projectingOF THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part I. Irom ihe Mamma vary much. In general, though with many exceptions, the number is about twice that of the Foetuses whicli the Animal commonly produces at a Birth, to give, along with the extended Mamma, an opportunity for suckling all the young at the same time. The Teat is commonly hollow within, the Cavity communicating with two reservoirs, in which the Lac- tiferous Tubes terminate. It has only one or two ori- fices externally. Of the number of the Teats in Mammalia, there are generally. Two Inguinal in the Sheep, Goat, Mare, and Cetacea. Four Inguinal in the Cow, Deer, and Camel. Four Abdominal in the Lioness and Panther. Ten Abdominal in the Sow. Six Abdominal, and Four Pectoral, in the Bitch, Hare, and Rabbit. Four Abdominal, and Four Pectoral, in the Cat. Eight Abdominal, and from Two to Four Pectoral, in the Rat. Two Abdominal, and Four Pectoral, in the Bear. Four Abdominal, and Six Pectoral, in the Hedge-hog.- Two Pectoral in the Ape, Bat, and Elephant. The Nipples are sometimes found, but in smaller number, in the Male, as in the Dog; or in a different situation, as on the sheath of the Penis in the Horse ; and there are numerous instances where Milk has been secreted in the Mammae of Male Animals, as the Dog, Cat, &c.; and Milk, or a fluid similar to it, is com- monly found in the Mammae of newly-born Quadrupeds of both sexes, as well as in the Breasts of Children. Ins. . Part I.] OF MAMMALIA. I97 In the Marsupial Animals, as the Kangaroo and O- possum, there is a Bag or Pouch, formed by the Com- mon Integuments, and lined thinly with Plair. It is connected with a pair of Bones arising from the Pubis, which have Muscles for raising them, and the Pouch along with them. It is closed by a Sphincter Muscle, and opened by its own relaxation, or by a Muscle which draw's the Poucli towards the Vulva, to receive the young at the time of delivery. Whether the Embryo ever possesses an Umbilical Cord, or a connection with the Uterus similar to that in other Quadrupeds, is not ascertained; nor is the exact time at which the Foetus enters the Pouch been hitherto pointed out: but it is observed, that at an early period of pregnancy, the Foetus, scarcely an inch in length, passes from the Uterus through the Vulva into the False Belly, where it adheres by its Mouth to one of the Nipples, placed there for its nourishment. When the Animal arrives at a certain degree of matu- rity, it goes out of the Pouch, and re-enters it at plea- sure, till it has acquired strength enough to provide for itself. {See Mu Home’s Paper on this subject in Phil. Trans. 1795.) No False Belly is found in the Male of these Animals. N PARTPART II. OF BIRDS. OF THE BONES. The Skeleton of Birds has a considerable uniformity in the whole class, and bears a strong analogy to that of the Mammalia; but the large Bones, in Birds of whatever shape, are destitute of Marrow in their inter- nal Cavities, in place of which they contain air, and communicate with the Lungs by considerable apertures. Foetal Birds, however, or such as have just quitted the Shell, have their Bones filled with Bloody Marrow, wdiich, in general, is soon absorbed, and, in Aquatic Birds, the greater part disappears. The iScw//, in this class of Animals, hasgio Sutures, at least in the Adult state, but is in a manner consoli- dated into one piece. In young Birds, there is a kind of False Sutures, but these are soon obliterated. The Cranium is of a Cellular texture, and particularly so in some, as the Eagle and Old, by which the strength and bulk of the part is increased, and the Body rendered specifically lighter. Some Birds are remarkable for a Crest or Horn, on the upper part of their Ilead. Emi- .nences of this kind are united with the Frontal Bone, andFaux II.] OF BIRDS. 199 and may be considered as enlargements of the Orbltar Portions. The Cavity of the Cranium is divided into two prin- * cipal Fossae, one for the Cerebrum, the other for the Thalami Optici, Cerebellum, and Medulla Oblongata. The number of the Bones of the Cranium is nearly the same, originally, as in the Human Body. The Orbits are of great size. In some, they are separated by a Membrane; in others, by a partition more or less Os- seous. The Temporal Bones have no Zygomatic Pro- cesses. The Cranium, in the whole of the class, is joined to the Bones of the Neck, by a single hemispherical Con- dyle, placed at the fore part of the Foramen Magnum. The relative magnitude of the Cranium and Jaws varies much in Birds. In some, as the Ozd, the Bill bears a small proportion to the large Cranium; in others, as the Rhinoceros Bird, it is of an extraordinary size. The Nasal and Palatine Openings also vary much in different Birds; in the Stork, they are small; in the Crane, remarkably large. The Upper .Jaw, or Mandible, in most Birds, is more or less moveable. It either constitutes a particular Bone articulated with the Cranium, as in the Parrot kind, or is united with it into one piece, by means of elastic Bony Plates, as in Birds in general. It is immoveable in a few, as in the Cock the Wood, and the Rhinoceros Bird. The Teeth are wanting in the different individuals of this class, the Bill .supplying their place, yet acting like the Fore-teeth of those Animals that use them for seiz- ing their prey. N 4 AllOF THE BONES [Part II. 200 All Birds have a Bone,termed Os Quadrafum^ by which the Lower Jaw is articulated with the Cranium on both sides. Another small Bone is connected with it, and rests by its opposite end against the Palate, in such a manner as to elevate the Upper Jaw when the Square Bone is carried forwards by its Muscles. The Os Hijoides is divided, as in Mammalia, into a Body and two Cornua, which are of a round and slen- der form. 'i he number of the Vertebra; is as variable as in Qua- drupeds. In the Neck, they are numerous, and vary more than in the other parts of the Spine, the number depending upon the length of the Neck. The smallest number of Cervical Vertebrae is found in the Sparrow^ and the greatest in the Swan, the one having only nine, while the other has twenty-three. The Dor.sal Verte- bras are fewest in the Bull-jinch., being only six in num- ber, and most numerous in the Swan, which has eleven. The Lumbar Vertebrae are united into one piece. 'J'he smallest number of Sacral V'ertebra; exists in the Coot, there being only seven, while the Ostrich has twenty, which is the greatest. '1 he Turkey and Pheasant pos- sess the smallest number of Caudal Vertebrae, viz. five. The greatest number is found in the Starlings Swallow, and OAirich, which have nine. Each of the B(-dics of the Cervical Vertebrae forms a part of a C) linder, in consequence of which, they are allowed free motion. 'I'he three or four uppermost Vertebrae can only move forward, and the rest backward, the whole giving the form of any; but by contracting or widening the two Arches,201' Part II.] OF BIRDS. Arches, they can shorten or lengthen the Neck readily. The Atlas has the shape ot‘ a ring, and is only connect- ed with the Head by a single articulation in the form of ball and socket. From the whole of this structure,- such motion is allowed, that Birds have the peculiar power of placing the Bill under the Wing when they rest. The Dorsal Vertebrce have the Spinous Processes tied together by strong Ligaments, and they are often united into a solid mass. The 'I'ransverse Processes send oft* two points, one forwards, the other backwards, which join those of the other Vertebrae, and the parts here are sometimes also anchylosed'; but in Birds that cannot fly, a%s the Ostrich and Cassoioary, the Vertebrae remain moveable. The Lumbar Vertebrae are commonly ossified' toge- ther, and also to the Bones of the Sacrum and Pelvis, so as to give the appearance of a single Bone. The two lateral parts of the Pelvis do not close before, to form a Symphysis Pubis, excepting in the Ostrich. There is generally a Foramen Thyroideum, and the Ischiatic Notch is formed into a complete Foramen. The Caudal V'ertebrae are found in greatest number in Birds which move their 't ail most freely, as the Magpie and Sxmllow. The last Vertebra of the Tail is the largest, and is often ia l()rm of a plough-share, for the attachment of the Quills. In the Peacock^ it is of an oval form, and situated horizontally. The Thorax, in Birds, is commonly remarkably large in proportion. '1 he Bibs have several peculiari- ties in their form and attachments. Their Vertebral Extremity202 [Part II. OF THE BONES the Extr-emlty is forked, one of die Branches resting upon the Body of the Vertebra, the other upon its J rans- verse Process. The Sternal Extremity has an Osseous Appendage supplying the place of Cartilage. '1 he middle of the Bib has a flat Process directed upwards and backwartls over the following Jlib, each in this manner supporting die other. The number of the Ribs is less than in the Human Body ; they are not found to exceed ten pairs. The Sternum is of great ])roportional size, covering not only the Brea.st, but a large part of the Belly. In- ternally it is concave, externally convex, and is ex- tended helow into a ridge termed Crista, resembling the keel of a ship. This, with the under surface of the Bone in general, serves for the attachment of the very strong Pectoral Muscles, that move the Wings. In some Birds, as the Ostrich and Cassowary, which have not the power of flying, the Sternum is flat below, and there is no Crista. The Wings are connected to the Sternum by three Bones, viz. two Clavicles, and the Furcula, Fork-like Bone, or Merry-thought. The Clavicle is articulated with the anterior edge of the Sternum, and has little motion. It is divided into two short processes, one connected to the Furcula, the other to the Scapula, with which it forms a Cavity for the reception of the Humerus. The Furcula is remarkable in Birds, and is seldom w'anting. It is in form of a V, common to both Shoulders, and is joined by its point to the most pro- minent part of the Crista of the Sternum, while the other extremities are connected to the Humeral end of205 OF BIRDS. l^ART n.] The the Clavicle, and the point of the Scapulae, where these two Bones are articulated with each other, and with the Os Hunieri. The Furcula serves to keep the Wings at a proper distance in flying, and is strong and expanded in Birds which fly with great force and rapi- dity. In the Ostrich and Cassoxmry^ it is imperfect, the lateral J?ranches not uniting together. The edge of the Scapula, in Birds, is long next the Vertebrae, and the Bone is always destitute of a Spine. The Wings, or Superior Extremities, consist com- monly on each side of an Os Humeri—two Bones of the Fore-arm - two of the Carpus, one of which is Radial and Rhomboidal, the other is Ulnar, wedge-shaped, and has a Tubercle, which is sometimes a separate piece, cor- responding with the Os Pisiforme in Mammalia—two generally consolidated into one piece in the Metacar- pus—one in the Thumb—two Fingers, that next the Thumb long, consisting of two Portions, the other has only one. The Os Humeri is articulated with the Clavicle and Scapula, and below has two Articular Pro- cesses, as in Man. The Radius and Ulna move freely on the Os Humeri; but the Radius cannot turn upon its own axis. Upon the First or Long Finger, and the Metacarpal Bone, the Primary Quills are placed. The Thumb sustains the False or Bastard Quills. The size of the Bones of the Wings varies as occa- sion requires. In Birds of prey, which have to carry their Food frequently to a considerable distance, and others which fly far, the Bones of the Wings are of great length ; while in domestic Fowls, &c. these Bones are small in proportion to the size of their Bodies.OF THE BONES 201' [Paet II. The Bones in the Wings of the Penguins are remark, able for tlieir flattened appearance, and form a sort of medium between the W^ing of the Bird and the Fin of the Fish. In the Lower Extremities, there is an Os Femoris, a Tibia, and a Fibula, which is soon anch^^^losed to the Tibia, and does not reach its Lower Extremity; a Rotula, the place of which is often supplied by a Process of the Tibia, as in Diving Birds; one Bone supplying the place of Tarsus and Metatarsus; and the Toe.s, the Bones of which are more numerous, the more exterior- 13' they are placed. The Toes are articulated upon a Pulley, formed by the lower end of the Metatarsal Bone. The inner side has a small Bone, that supports the Pos- terior 'I'oe or Pollex. There are two Bones to the Pollex, three to the Second Toe, four to the Third Toe, and five to the Fourth. In Birds wdth only three Toes, the First Toe has three, the Second four, and the Third Toe five Bones. The Cassoioary has only three Toes, and the Ostrich two. The Birds with four Toes have commonly three before, and one behind. Some, as the Parrot, Cuckoo, &c. have two before and two behind. Swimming Birds, as the Penguin, have the Pollex obliterated. In wading and other long-limbed Birds, the length of the Leg is produced by the 'Hbia, and the Bone which supplies the place of Tarsus and Metatarsus; and is often in proportion to that of the Neck, though there are many exceptions. The Lower Extremities of Birds in general, are placed so much behind the common centre of gravity, as to make the Animal ap- pearPart II.] OF BIRDS. 205 pear to be in clanger of falling forward in walking; but this is prevented by the angle formed between the Leg and Body, and by the elevation of the Head and Neck. OF THE MUSCLES. The Muscles of Birds are peculiar, in having their Tendons converted into Bone as the Animal becomes old. Of the Mucles of the Head, there are three in each side, which serve instead of the Digastric for depressing the I^wer Jaw. They are distinctly seen in the Duck, but one of them is frequently wanting in other Birds. There are three, also, for closing the Bill, one of which supplies the place of the Temporal and Masseter, the other, that of the two Pterygoid Muscles. The Os Quadratum has three pairs on each side, which assist also in the opening and shutting of the Bill. In the Turkey, the Os Hyoides has Muscles analo- gous to the Mylo-hyoid, Stylo-hyoid, Stylo-glossus, Ge- nio-hyoid, and Cerato-hyoid, for acting upon this Bone and the Tongue. The Tongue has three pairs fixed into it, which arise from the Os Hyoides. There are no Muscles peculiar to the Pharynx; it has Muscular Fibres common to it and the Esophagus. The Splenius and Obliquus Superior are wanting, but506 OF THE MUSCLES [Fart II. but there is an additional Rectus Posticus, viz. a iMaxi- inus. The Muscles of the Dorsal part of the Spine are also wanting, the parts here being quite rigid. I he Neck is furnished with a number of Muscles, corresponding with the number of the Cervical Vertebra?. I'lie Tail has Muscles for raising, depressing, and turning it to either side. '1 hey arise chietly from the posterior part of the Trunk of the Body, and are fixed to the Os Coccygis. The Lateral Muscles in particular, acting together, expand the feathers in the Tail, so as to pro- duce that beautil’ul fan-like appearajice, so remarkable in the Turkey, Peacock, and Pheasant. Of the Muscles of the Ribs, the Scalenus is analo- gous to the Levatores Costarum, ivhich extend from the transverse processes of the Vertebra?, to the anterior edges of the Ribs. The Intercostales and Triangu- lares bear a considerable resemblance to those in Man. Birds have no Diaphragm. There are three Layers of Abdominal Muscles, the two outer of which run more in a transverse direction than in the Human Species. The Recti and Pyramidales are wanting. Muscles of the Sutperior Extremity.—The IMuscles of the Scapula are the same in number with those in Mam- malia; but the Trapezius and Rhomboides are small, their origin being chiefly confined to the Spine of the Back. Birds have three Pectoral Muscles, all arising from the very large Sternum, and fixed to the Scapu- lary extremity of the Humerus. The First, or Great Pectoral, with its fellow, which weighs more than all the other IMuscles taken collectively, arises from the Os F urciforme.Part IL] W7 OF BIRDS, Furciforme, the Keel of the Sternum, and the last Ribs', and is inserted into a prominent Linea Aspera of the Os Humeri. By depressing this Bone, the Muscle produces the quick and poweidul motions of the Wing in flying. The Second, or Middle Pectoral, is situated under the former, and sends a 'I'endon over the union of the Scapula, Furcula, and Clavicle, as over a pulley, to ele- vate the Humerus, and balance the Animal in its flight. The I bird, or Smallest Pectoral, arises from the late- ral angle of the Sternum and base of the Clavicle, and brings the Humerus close to the Body, in which mo- tion it is assisted by two small Muscles, passing between the Clavicle and Head of the Humerus. By the action of these three Muscles, the alternate motions of rais- ing and depressing the Wing are produced, by which the Bird is carried forward in flying. By the strength of the Tail the Animal is kept in a proper balance, and prevented from falling forward. The Latissimus Dorsi is formed of two portions, one’ fixed under the Head, and the other at the middle of the Body of the Humerus. '1 he other Muscles of the Scapula are nearly as in the Human Body. The Biceps has one origin from the Scapula, and another from the Os Humeri, and is inserted into the Ulna. The Bracheus arises from the Linea Aspera, and is fixed to the inner side of the Head of the Ulna. There is another Flexor which arises from the Exter- nal Condyle of the Humerus, and, after extending some way along the upper portion of the Ulna, is fixed to the outer part of that Bone. The Extensor Cubiti is eomposed of two portions, one from the Scapula, the other«08 OF THE MUSCLES [Part II. the other from the Humerus. 'Jhere is also an Anconeus. The Supinator Longus is wanting. 'I here is a kind of Supinator Brevis, but it is considered as bending the Fort'-arm. I'wo Muscles occupy the place of the Pro- nator Teres, tliough seemingly acting as Flexors. Tlie Metacarpus possesses only the motions of adduc- tion and abduction. The Muscles for performing these motions are the following: The Ulnaris Internus, which arises as in Man, and is fixed to the wedge-like Bone of the Car[)us; another Muscle lying under this, and sending off a long Tendon, which gives slips to the se- condary Quills, and is Inserted to the back of the Me- tacarpus ; the Ulnaris Externus, which is placed on die posterior surface of the Ulna; its Tendon, j:assing between the last Primary Quill, and first Secondary one, and fixed to the inner edge of the base of the Meta- carpus; a Radial Muscle, which arises by different portions from the External Condyle, and one from the Radius, their common Tendon being fixed to the 'J'u- bercle of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. Ihe Digital Muscles, also, can only perform ad- duction and abduction. Of the Adductors or Ex- tensors, there is the Adductor Phalangis Primae, w'hich corresponds with the Flexor Sublimis, arises from the Internal Condyle, and is fixed to the base of the first Bone of the Great Finger. The Ad- ductor Internus Phalangis Secundae, which corresponds with the Flexor Profundus, and goes along the inner side of the Radius, and is inserted into the base of the second Phalanx. The Adductor Pollicis, which cor- responds to the Flexor Pollicis, is situated betweenPart II.] m OF BIRDS. the preceding Muscle and Ulna, and sends a Tendon to be fixed to the radial edge of the Thumb. The Ad- ductor Externus Phalangis Secundse, which is analo- gous to the Flexor Proprius Indicis, arises from the External Condyle, having its Tendon fixed to the back of the Metacarpus and second Phalanx of the Great Finger. Muscles of the Pelvis and Inferior Extremity.—The Psoas Parvus and Magnus, the Iliacus Internus, and Quadratus Lumborum, are wanting. There are two Ad- ductor Muscles of the Thigh, situated as in Mammalia, and a Muscle analogous to the Pectineus, which is conti- nued to join the Flexor Perforatus of the second and fifth Toes. 1 he three Glutei have the same proportions as in Quadrupeds. The Pyrifonnis and Gemini are wanting. The Muscle analogous to the Quadratus Femoris is re- markable for its great size. The Obturator Internus goes over the Hole analogous to the Foramen Thyroi- deum. The Extensors of the Leg are nearly as in Quadrupeds. Of the Flexors, there are two somewhat analogous to the Biceps and Semi-membranosus; a third which is intermediate, but is sometimes wanting, particularly in Birds of prey ; and a fourth, which forms the anterior part of the Thigh, and is similar to the Sartorius. The Tendons of the Gastrocnemii remain separate to near the Heel. The Soleus is fixed to a Linea Aspera, which belongs to the Tibia, ’ There is a Peroneus Brevis, and a Muscle analogous to the Pe- roneus Tertius in Man. '1 here is an Extensor Longus of the three Ante- rior I'oes.^ corresponding to the Extensor Longus VoL. IV. O Digitorum.OF THE MUSCLES [Part If. Digitoi-um. The Extensor Longus Pollicis is 'want- ing ; four small Muscles supply the place of the Extensor Brevis; a Flexor Brevis Pollicis is situat- ed in the back part of the Tarsus. 'I here are long Flexors of the Toes, which are divided into three masses; these come partly from the Os Femoris, and partly from the Bones of the Leg. They have connect- ed to them an Accessory Flexor, Avhich comes from the Pubes,, and sends a Tendon over the Knee. 'J he diffe- rent 'J'endons run under the Heel, and are united by Fibres to each otiicr ; and one set of 'J’endons perforate another, and are fixed to the different Phalanges of the Toes. By this mechanism, the Bird is supported, or. can lay hold of Branches of Trees, &e. when roosting; the weight of the Body giving that degree of flexion to the Knee and Heel, which produces the necessary con- traction of the 'J'oes. By this contrivance, also, Ra- pacious Birds, seize their prey while pouncing on it. When they wish to disengage themselves, they do it readily by raising the Body, after which the Toes arr expanded. OF THE INTEOmiEXTS. i HE Integuments consist of the same parts as in Mam- malia, The Cuticle is very tliin, and, in the'Legs and FeetyOF BIRDS. JPaut IL] 211 Feet, is generally formed of Horny Scales, which fall off in moulting-time. The Corpus Mucosum is not very distinct. It varies iii colour in different parts of the Body. 'In the Legs and Feet, almost all the different colours are to be ob- served in the different individuals of the class. The Cutis is much thinner than in Quadrupeds, but has considerable thickness in Birds of prey. The Pa- pillae Nervosae, and sense of feeling in the Integuments of Birds, reside only in the Feet and I'oes, the Supe- rior Extremities being generally covered with Feathers. Even in the Lower Extremities of some, the Legs and » Toes are frequently covered with Scales or Feathers, so as to blunt the sense of Feeling also’ in this part of the Animal. The Cellular Substance immediately under the Skin, adheres loosely to the parts directly above and below it,- but particularly at the Axillae. In certain Birds, as the Swallow, the Subcutaneous Cellular Substance is deprived of Fat, though the Pe- ritoneum is charged with it in the winter-season. From the surface of the Skin, Excretions take place, as in the former class of Animals, as appears iit moult- ing, and from a quantity of mealy dust being separated in pairing-time. Besides the Layers of the Skin mentioned above, Birds have a Panniculus Carnosus, which is more di‘'- tinct in certain kinds, as those wliich raise their Fea- thers in particular parts of the ‘ ody. Besides one broad Muscle, there are Slips which run in different O 2 directions,OF THE INTEGUMENTS [Part II. directions, and act upon the Skin and leathers over them. The Feathers are the peculiar covering of Birds. They protect them from the inclemency of the weather, and serve them for flying. In Water Fowls, the Fea- thers are besmeared with an oily fluid, which prevente the water from injuring them. Upon certain parts of the Integuments there are Glandsy that separate an oily matter, w'ith which they anoint their Feathers. These are found under the Skin of the crop ; but the greater part of this substance is discharged, by one or more orifices, from a Gland si- tuated upon the Rump. With the contents of this, the Duck, by means of the Bill, frequently besmears the Feathers. The Feathers are wanting in young Birds. When they first leave the Egg, they are covered with Hair, tbrmed into Fasciculi, eacli of which grows from a common Bulb, that gives origin to the future Feathers. The Hair is soon succeeded by Sheaths, giving pas- sage to the Feathers, the inner ends of which are sup- plied with Blood-vessels, that form first the Barrel, then the Stalk of the Quill. The inner part of the Feathers is at first composed of a Pulpy substance, inclosed in Cells. The Pulp is by degrees absorbed, and the part assumes the appearance of a Corpus Cavernosum. The Stalk is convex on one side, and concave, and furrowed in the middie, on the other. Upon the sides of the Stalk are Barhes, composed of Horny Laminae, and beset laterally w ith Hairs or Bar- bules. The Feathers on the Wings and Tail are term- edOF BIRDS. 21» Part II.] O 3 purpose. ed Pens or Qiiills; those on the Bones, analogous to the Fore-arms, are termed Secondary. The Feathers vary exceedingly in appearance in dif, ferent Birds. Some, as the Turkey, Raven, &c. are covered with Hairs in particular places. The Feathers of Night Birds of prey are covered with dowm, while those of other Birds are garnished with a kind of silk. Some Birds have Feathers not only on their Bodies, but also on their Feet; and some, as the Moor Game, have them on their Feet in the winter season only. Some, as the Vulture and Turkey, want them on the Head. Several have two or more Feathers arising from a common Quill. In the Penguin kind, the Feathers of the Wing ai*e in the form of small Scales. In the Cassowary, they are like the Quills of the Porcupine, being destitute of Barbules. The Feathers of Birds are annually changed, or there is a moulting-season; but all Feathers are not found to fall at the same time. • In several Birds, where the Male and Female have different Plumage, it is observed that the latter, after ceasing, through age, to lay Eggs, assumes the Plu- mage of the Male. Birds have Claw’s commonly on the Toes; and in Birds of Prey, they are strong, like those of Carnivo- rous Quadrupeds. In Gallinaceous Birds^ there is a supernumerary Claw, the Spur, which the Animal uses in fighting, and in fixing upon the Female in discharging the Se- men. The Orniihorrynchus has a Spur for the same‘MI OF THE INTEGUMENTS [Faut II. purpose. In t he former Animals, llie Spur has one Bone in it, which is fixed to the Tarsus; in the latter Animal, it has two. Claws arc wanting in the Wings of Birds, where they could not be used, either for walking, or seizing ^he prey. OF THE BRAIN, S^c. ^l^HE Mevihrancs of the Brain correspond, in number and general appearance, with those of the former class. Jn some Birds, there is even a Falx, and this, in the Wood-cock and Orrdthorrynchus, is of an Osseous na- ture. The proportional size of the Brain of the Animals of this class varies extremely ; but it is found, that the Brain of the smaller Birds bears a greater proportion to the size of the Body, than that of the larger kinds. While, in the Sparrow, it is a 25th, and in the Gold- jinch, a 14th of the weight of their Body ; in \he Eagle, it is only a 160th, and in the Goose, a 660lh. The Brain cor.tists of two large masses, which form the Ilemisj.heres, the two Thalami Optici, the Cere- bellum, and Medulla Oblongata. The Hemupheres are in form of a Fleart, with the •base turned backward. There are no Convolutions, iior Corpus Callosum, nor Fornix, nor Septum Lu- cidum.’Paat II.] ^15 •OF BIRDS. I ciduni. The Corpora Striata are of uniform colour in- ternally. The Tkalami ai*e two roundish Tubercles lying un- ,der the Hemispheres, without being inclosed by them. Between the Thalami and Corpora Striata are com- .monly four Eminences, which do not appear in Man. The Lateral Ventricles do not turn down behind to form the inferior Cornua ; of course, the Cornua Ammonis are absent. The Lateral Ventricles, in Birds, are distin- guished from those of all other Animals, by the radiated partition which separates them from each other. Tliey communicate with each other, and with the Third Ven- tricle. The *rhird Ventricle is situated between the Thalami, and communicates with the Infundibulum, and also with the Fourth Ventricle ; but the passage into this last is only covered by a thin Lamina, the Tubercula ' Quadrigemina being either absent or -indistinct, thongh ^ the Pineal Gland is present. In each of the Optic Thalami, there \% an adclkional Ventricle, which opens into the passage leading from the Third to the Fourth Ventricle. 'I he Cerebellum is only a simple Lobe; it has, how- ever, transverse Striae, somewhat similar to those in Mammalia. I he Fourth Ventricle has also, as in that class, a Calamus Scriptorius, and an Arbor Vitas; but the latter is more simple than in Mammiferous Ani- mals. 7 he Pons Varolu is wanting. The Medulla Oblon- gata has no Eminences, such as are seen in the former class of Animals. 0 4 Nerves.^16 [P^\RT II. OF THE BE A IN, &c. Nerves. The Cerebral Nerves are the same in number as in Mammalia. The Olfactory^ after leaving the Brain, goes in a distinct Canal to the Cavity of the Nose. The Second crosses its fellow, and goes to tlie Eye of the op- posite side. The Tkii'd, either by a hole peculiar to it, or by a Sphenoid Fissure, passes to the Muscles, as in Mammalia, 'Fhe Fourth is also as in the former class. The Fifth divides as in Mammalia. The Branches to the Beak correspond with those about the Jaws in Mam- miferous Animals; but those to the inner side of the Nose are of great magnitude, and run to the extremity of the Bill, in Birds which search for their food in water, mud, &c. J he Sixth are as in Mammalia. Of the Seventh^ the Portio Dnra is pi-opor lion ally small, the Lips being absent, and much of their Bill being Horny and Cal- lous, and not requiring a great supply of Nerves. 7"he Portio Mollis, of great size, goes to the Labyrinth by many Branches. '1 he Eighth and Ninth pairs are dis- persed as in Mammalia. The Great Sympathetic has origins, connexions, and terminations, which bear a considerable analogy to those of the Animals of the former class, varying only in some particulars. It passes through the same Foramen with the Pars Vaga and Glosso-pharyngeus. It unites with Nerves near it, has Ganglia in its course through the Body, and can be traced as far as the Vertebrte of the Tail. The Spinal Marroza is nearly of the same nature, and the21T Bart II.] OF BIRDS. thd Nerves are generally sent olF from it by anterior and posterior bundles of Fibres, as iin Mammalia. The Cervicals are analogous to those of the former class of Animals, but the number corresponds with that of the Vertebrae. 'Ihey go chiefly to the Neck, only one or two of the last assisting in the formation of th« Brachial Plexus. T he Diaphragmatic Ne^'ves^ like tlie Diaphragm it- self, are wanting. The Dorsals and Lumhars correspond with those in Mammalia, and the number with that of the Verte- brae. 1 he Brachial Plexus is chiefly formed by the last Cervical and two first Dorsals, and is large, having to supply the Pectoral Muscles of great size, which are inserted into the Wings. The Nerves of the Abdominal or Inferior Extremities are nearly as in Mammalia. 'Ihe Anterior Crural is sent off from the three last Lumbe rs, ficm which also the Obturator comes. '1 be Sciatic is chiefly formed by the four Superior or Anteri(.r Pelvic Pairs, and divided somewhat as in Mammalia, the last Branches dividing Into others according to the number of the Toes. OF THE EYE. The Eyes are larger in the individuals of this class, in proportion to the size of the Scull, than in Mammalia, and[Pabt II. 5::iS OF THE EYE and are placed so mucli in a lateral direction, that the Animal, in viewing objects particularly, turns towards them one side of the Head, and examines them with a sinffle Eve. The Orhite are more shallow here than in Quadru- peds, of course, the cushion of Fat surrounding the back part of the Eye is thinner. In most Birds, as Fowl, Duel:, Turkey, &c. the Eye- lids are closed by the Orbicularis elevating the Inferior Palpebra, which is the largest, and has a small Lamina of Cartilage. '1 here is a peculiar Muscle arising from the bottom of the Orbit, for depressing this Eye-lid. In a few, as the Parrot, Owl, Goat-sticker, Ostrich, &c. the Upper Eye-lids are most moveable. Cilia are found in a few Birds only, as some Parrots and Hawks, the Ostrich, &c. Besides the tw’o ordinary or liorizontal Eye-lids, Birds have a third one placed at the Nasal Angle, and termed Mevihrana Nictitans, which is a semi-tran.sjja- rent Membrane, capable of covering the whole E}’e. In a state of rest, it is scarcely observed, but can be di*awn out by the action of two IMuscles, so as (o cover the whole front of the Globe. The Muscles jx?rforming this motion, arise from the back of the Sclerotic. The one, termed Quadratns, has its origin from above ; the otlier, called Pyratnidalis, comes from below, and forms a Tendinous Cord, that runs through an Aponeurotic Sheath formed by the first, then in Cellular Substance, at the under part of the Sclerotica, to be fixed to the ipferior and exteiior edge of the Membrana Nictitans. AfterPart II.] OF BIRDS. ^ After the Membrane has been drawn to the outer corner of the Eye, it is returned !)y its own elasticity. The Lacrymal Gland^ in Birds, is commonly small. It is situated at the outer angle, and sends out the Tears in some, as the Common Fowl, by one, and in others, by two or throe small Canals, through the Up- per Eye-lid. The Glandula Harderi is also found here ; it is of a fleshy colour, and considerably larger than the Lacry- mal Gland. It is commonly placed between the Le- vator and Adductor Oculi, and discharges, by a single Duct, a yellowish fluid upon the inner surface of the third Palpebra. In the Duck tribe and the Water Birds, there is a large Glandular Body in the upper part of the Orbit, which seems to supply the place of the Lacrymal Gland, yet no Duct has been traced from it. All Birds have two Puncta Lacrymalia, but no Ca- runcvla Lacrymalis. The passages from the Puncta terminate in the Nasal Sac, situated in the Palate, at the base of the Nose. The Sclerotic Coat forms little more than a hemi- sphere in this class, and to its anterior flat part is at- tached the Cornea, making a section of a smaller globe. In consequence of the flatness of the anteiior part of the Eye, it is prevented from being injured when the Animal is scrambling among bushes, or taking a rapid flight through the air. The fore part of the Sclerotis divides into two Lami- nae, between w'hich there are numerous Osseous Plates, y/hich overlap each other, and form a Ring, commonly flat.220 OF THE EYE [Part II. flat, but sometimes convex, at other times, as in the Owl, concave. The Choroid Coat has no Tapetum, such as is found in many Quadrupeds. The inner side is uniformly blackish, and lined with Mucus, which prevents Birds from seeing distinctly in the dark. All Birds have Ciliary Processes, but tltey project so little, that they appear rather like Striae than loose Folds, and ai*e connected to the Crystalline Lens. The boundary between the Choroides and Iris is dis- tinctly defined in this class. The Iris varies in appearance according to the Spe- cies. It is blue, red, or yellow, and commonly pos- sesses great brilliancy. In some, as the Parrot, the motions of the Iris are voluntary. The Animal can dilate or contract the Pu- pil at pleasure. A Memhrana Pupillaris is not observed in Foetal Birds. The Optic Nerves run here in such a manner, that it is difficult to distinguish any union in them. Upon reaching the Ball, each goes through a Sheath of the Sclerotic Coat, and then forms a round white line, from which grows the Retina. In the internal part of die Eye, there is a Membrane of a most delicate texture, somewhat resembling the Choroid Coat, and ternied Marsupium Nigriim, Pecten, or Memhrana Plicata, from its colour and plaited ap- pearance. It arises in the bottom of the Eye, at the entrance of the Optic Nerve, passes obliquely through the Retina, and terminates at or near the edge of the Crystalline Lens. It is formed of Plicae, varying in numberOF BIRDS. 291 Part II.] number in different Birds, and is of a conical form, very Vascular, and covered with a black paint. In the Ostrich and Cassowary, it forms a kind of conical purse, whence the French term it Bourse Noire. It is sup- posed to absorb rays of light when too strong, or when the Animal attempts to look at near objects. And some have considered it as serving to move the Lens; but Muscular Fibres have not been detected in it, and its oblique situation is also unfavourable to this. The Humours of the Eye are analogous to those in the former class. The Lens is flatter or rounder, in an inverse ratio to that of the Cornea. In Land Birds, it is flat, as in Mammalia; in the Aqtiatic, it is more of a globular form. The Muscles of the Eye, in Birds, are the same in number as in the Human Body ; but both the Obliqui come from the fore part of the Orbit, near each other. One is inserted below, the other above, without going through a [)ulley, as in Mammalia. The whole Muscles of the Ball are fixed to the soft part of the Sclerotic, behind the Osseous Lamina?, and are shorter in pro- portion than in the former class. This, together with the flat shape of the Ball, allows very little motion. The Suspensory Muscle existing in Quadrupeds, is wanting in Birds, OFOF THE EAH [Faux II. OF THE EAR. There Is no Cartikiginous External Ear in any of the class, but instead of it, esj^ecially in Rapacious Birds, there is a Tr^t of FealJiers regularly arranged round the External Meatus, which excludes dust, insects, &c. but allows sound to enter readilv. In the Orel kind, and several others, chiefly Birds of prey, there is a Membrano-muscular Valve over the pas- sage, which has been compared to the Conclw of the Human Ear. The edges of this have a number of slen- der Feathers placed in a circle, which gives a singular appearance to the Animal, The Meatus Externus is little else than a simple hole in the surface of the Scull. It has a liquor secreted in it, which may answer the same purpose as the wax of the Ear of Mammalia. The Mcmhrana Tjijmpant., contrary to what happens in the former class, is convex outwardly, and of an oval form, with the long diameter placed downwards and forwards. The Tynipanum is of conaderable size, and has with- in it only one Ossiculum Auditus, which is rather of a Cartilaginous consistence, and termed Quadratum from its shape. It is composed of two Branches, which form a kind of Elbow. One is attached along the infe- rior half of the Membrana Tympani, the other goes from the superior part of the former, at the middle of the Membrana Tympani, and divides into slender Crura,Fart IL] OF BIRDS. Crura, which unite again in a plate that fills the I'enes- tra Ovalis. There is only one Muscle belonging to the Square Bone. It is situated in the Occiput, behind the Ear, and,-penetrating the walls of the Tympanum, is so fix- ed to this small Bone, as to stretch the Membrana Tym*- pani. ' ■ The Eicstachian Tube is conical, and entirely Osseous. It runs from the Tympanum to the Palate, where it terminates by an opening common to it and its fellow, behind the Internal Nares. Of the two Foramina by which the Tympanum com- municates with the Labyrinth, the Fenestra Rotunda is the larger, contrary to what happens in Mammalia. I'lie Tympanum, in many Birds, particularly in the Old, communicates with three large Cavities inclosed in the Osseous Plates. These again communicate by an equal number of openings with the •Tympanum in the same side, while one extends over the Occiput to its fellow on the other side, and another goes under the Pituitary Gland to the corresponding one on the oppo- site side. In night Birds of prey, these Cavities are very large. In those which seek their prey in the day-time, and in the Gallinacea, they do not communicate on the oppo- site sides of the Head. In Aquatic Birds, they are generally small. In Parroquets, they have not been dis- covered. The Labyrinth is distinguished by the Semicircular Canals projecting from the base of the Cranium, and in such a manner, that, in many Birds, they are visible withoutOF THE EAR [Part II. without any preparation, on account of their not being inclosed by an Os Petrosum, as in Maniniaila. Tile Semicircular Caimls are peculiar, by two of them crossing, and communicating with, each other. They are larger in proportion than in Mammalia, and larger in Birds of prey than in others; but the Vestible, in Birds, is proportionally small. In place of a Cochlea^ there is a conical Bone, bent a little, and obtuse at its extremity. It passes off from the Vestible, and is divided, as in Mammalia, by a par- tition into two Scalse, which communicate with the Tympanum and Labyrinth as in Man. This, with the other parts of the Labyrinth, receives the Portio Mol- lis, as the Cochlea does in the former class of Animals. OF THE NOSE. i HE Organ of Smell is proportionally large, and its- acuteness is shewn in Birds of prey, which discover their Food at a considerable distance. The Nostrils vary in situation, size, and form, in different Birds. In some, they are found at the side of the Beak, in others, at its base ; and are placed oppo- site to an opening in the Septum, in consequence of which, there is a free communication between the oppo- siteOF BIRDS. ' 225 t’AHT II.] site sides of the Bill. In some individuals, they are so small as to be scarcely perceptible. They have neither moveable Cartilages nor Muscles, but arc formed of Laminm covered by the Skin, whicli is expanded over the Beak. There is no proper Ethmoid Bone in Birds, though they have distinct Ossa Spengiosa, which divide the Cavity of the Nose into different Meatus. The Memhrana Pituitaria is plentifully supplied with Vessels, which furnish abundance of Mucus. The Internal Nares commonly open by one chink upon the Palate, which is beset with soft pointed Pa-' pillse, turned backw^ard, and furnished with Muscles, by which it can be shut at pleasure. The Palatum Molle is wanting. The Foramina Incisiva vary in number, sl2?e, and situation, in different Birds In some, there is but a single opening, Avhlch Ls large; in others, there are more, but small. In some, it is placed near the point, in others, at the base of the Bill. The Nose, as in the former class of Animals, is co- piously furnished with Nerves; the Olfactory come from the fore part of the Anterior Lobe of the Brain, and pass along a Canal, after which they form innumerable Fibrillae, dispersed upon the Memhrana Mucosa. In AVater Fowls, particularly in the Duck tribe, the Nerves of the Nose, viz. the Olfactory, and a Branch of the Fifth Pair, are uncommonly large, and can be easily traced to the end of their Bills; in conseq[uence of w hich, they are enabled to search for their Food in water, mud, &c. A or. TV. P orOF THE MOUTH, 5:c. [Paut II. 22(5 OF THE MOUTH, THROAT, AND THEIR APPENDAGES. The part supplying the place of Teeth, in IVircls, is the Rostrum, or Bill, which is formed of a Horny Sub- stance similar to the Claws and Spurs, and moulded, upon the Os.seous part of the Jaws. The form and texture of the Bill correspond with the habits and food of the Animal. In Rapacious Birds, as the Eagle, the bill is hard and hooked at the end, for seizing and lacerating the prey. It is also of a very firm texture in Birds that bruise hard seeds. In those wbich live upon softer Food, it is more delicate ; and in such as the Dude kind, which search for their food in water or mud, it becomes soft and remarkably sen- sible. Many Birds, particularly in the orders Accipitres and Gallince, have a soft Skin covering the base of the Bill, which gets the name of Cire, (wax), the use of which is not yet ascertained. Tongue and Salivary Glands. All Birds are furnished w ith a Tongue, the form and structure of which vary much in different Genera and Species. It has Papillae of different forms, some fleshy, ?oft, and rounded, others Cartilaginous, and placed on itsPart II.] OF BIRDS. 007 P 2 The its root, and also on the Palate, to prevent the Food from escaping after it has entered the Mouth. Some Predaceoiis and Swimming Birds, and most of the Parrot kind, have a soft Tongue, covered with Pa- pillae, and moistened with Mucus, to enable them to select proper Aliment. In the Parroquet, it is fleshy, very thick, and rounded before. Nocturnal Birds of Prey have it also fleshy, with soft Papillae turned back- ward. In the GaUinacea, the Tongue is triangular, pointed, smooth. Cartilaginous, and destitute of Papillae, except- ing at its root; its firmness preventing it from being in- jured by the hard and pointed substances upon which they live. In the DucTc kind, it is fleshy and large, but in .seve- ral of these, it is furnished with ranges of Osseous La- minae ; and almost all the kinds have rigid Hairs upon the sides. , In the Swan, it is covered with stiff Hairs, Osseous Plates, and Fleshy Papillae; and some of these substan- ces are directed backward. In many, as the Toucan, the Tongue is of a Horny consistence, like a piece of Whale-bone; in the Pic, it is forked, or divided into two parts; in the Ostrich, of a semilunar form, and remarkably short; in the Pelican, so short, that its ex- istence has been by many denied. The nature of the Tongue is more remarkable in the Wood-cock and Wood-pecker, than in many other Animals of this class. In the Wood-cock, the Tongue, and akso the Larynx, are placed deep in the Esophagus, and the former can be elevated by Muscles peculiar to it.228 OF THE MOUTH, kc. [Part II. The Tongue of the Wood-pedeer is a sharp Horny substance with barbed edges, and fixed at its root to a Cartilaginous Os Hyoides, consisting of a Body and two pairs of very long Crura. TL he Body, when in a state of rest, is placed in a fleshy sheath of the Bill. Two of the Crura lie in the Neck, the other two are connected to the former, then proceed completely over the Cranium, running under the Integuments, and are fixed to the Upper Jaw. By means of this apparatus acting like a spring, the Tongue can be thrust some inches out of tlie Mouth. The Salh'arp Glands, in Birds, exist only un- der the Tongue, where they occupy the place of the Sublingual in Mammalia. I'hey form a mass of small Granulous Bodies, from which a liquor, somewhat Vis- cid, flows into the Mouth by numerous orifices. In the Gallinacca, they arc of considerable size. Two pairs are found in the Tnrl^ey, the first lying con- cealed immediately under the Skin, the second on the posterior portion of the first. '1 heir colour is yellowish, like the humour which they secrete. In xheParrnquet^xhe liquor of these Glands is viscid and grey. In. the Wood- pcclrr, the Salivary Gland extends as far as the Occi- put, is of a white colour, and sends out a single Duct, which terminates under the point of the l ongue, dis- charging a vhite I'luid into the Mouth. AVater Birds in general have but one pair of Glands, which secrete a white and viscid humfujr, discharged by many orifices; but in some of the Birds of this order, as the C-nll, the Salivary Glands have only a single Duct. OFPaut It.] OF BIRDS.. P 3 The OF THE HEART AND BLOOD^ VESSELS, > The Heart cotresponcls in its pi-incipal parts with that in Mammalia. It has four cavities, whicli have the same general appearance, and transmit the Blood in the same mannei”. It is of a conical form, but the cone varies in length or in roundness in different Birds. The situation is nearly the same as in Mammalia, but nearer the an- terior part of the Thorax. The Petlcard'mm is covered by the Membrane formed by the Pleura and Peritoneum. 7 he Auricles have no Appendices externally. The Ventricles have Columnae Carneie in proportion to their thickness and strength. The Valve corresponding with the d'ricLispid in Mammalia, is peculiar, in being formed of a strong fleshy flap, while the other Valves resemble those in the former class. '1 he Pulmonary Artery is proportionally small,' the Lungs occupying less space. 'rhe Aorta divides near its origin into three smaller f Aortae. riic rifjht foians the Posterior or Descendinff Aorta, the other two form the Subclavian Arteries. I'he Subclavians give off the Carotids, Vertebrals, Branches to the Neck and Thorax, then divide into Radial and Ulnar, which are dispersed on the Wings.^0 OF THE HEART, &c. [Part II. The Radial is proportionally small; the Ulnar very large, runs along the external edge of the Wing. The Posterior Aorta sends off the Cceliac to the Sto- macli, Liver, Spleen, Pancreas, and part of the Intes- tines ; then the two Mesenteries. It gives also the Sper~ matics to the Testes and Ovaria, and Anterior Lobes of the Kidneys; the Intercostals ahd Lumbars to the con- taining parts of the Body ; continued farther, it fur- nishes Branches to the Kidneys and Pelvis, and at last x to the Inferior Extremities. The Veins correspond with those in Mammalia; but there are two anterior Cavae, both opening into the up- per part of the Auricle. In the larger Birds, as the Ostrich^ Muscular Fibres are seen in the Cavse, particularly in the posterior one. In Diving Birds, the Cava Posterior dilates at the Liver into a sort of Reservoir, somewhat similar to that in the Seal. OF THE ABSORBENT SYSTEM. -1 ill of late years. Anatomists have been unacquaint- ed with the Absorbents of Birds, chiefly,owing to the transparency of the Chyle, and the want of Mesenteric Glands. The Lymphatics are now demonstrated in Birds, as well as in Man and Quadrupeds, and the struc- ture231 OF BIRDS. Part II.] ture Is also the same as in the former class of Animals; but this system differs from that of Mammalia, in the Chyle being colourless and transparent, and in there being no visible Lymphatic Glands, neither in the Me- ' sentery, nor, in general, any where else, but at the bottom of the Neck ; though, in some of the larger Birds, a few Glands have been found in other parts ol' the Body. The Lymphatics of Birds have numerous communi- cations with each other, and form Insula', which are more frequent than in IMammiferous Animals. The Lymphatics of the Infeiior Extremities of the Pelvis, and of the Organs of Urine and Generation, and also those of the Chylopoietic and Assistant Chylo- poietic Viscera, join about the Cceliac Artery, and form a Plexus. From this are sent out two Thomcic Ducts, nearly of equal size, which advance under the Lungs, at each side of the Spine, and go to the inner part of the right and left Jugular Veins, where they terminate a little beyond the union of these Vessels with the Axil- laris. The Thoi-acic Duct of the Left Side receives a Branch from the Ventriculus Succenturiatus and Esophagus, and likewise the Lymphatics of the corresponding wing. The Absorbents of the Head and Neck accompany the Blood-vessels, and join near the lower part of the Neck, to form a Trunk which penetrates a Lymphatic Gland. From the opposite side of this Gland another Trunk issues, which, in the left side, terminates in the Thoracic Duct, while in the right, part of it goes to . the Thoracic Duct, and part to the Jugular Vein, near the Angle wdiich it forms with the Axillary. P 4 OF.OKGANS OF VOICE, &c. [Part IL The OF THE ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRA TION i Hii Organs of Voice and Respiration in Rirds differ extremely from tliose of other Animals. The Larynx is peculiar in being double, or in there being one at each end of the Trachea. The Superior Larynx is situated at the I'oot of the Tongue and top of the Trachea, and is composed of several osseous Pieces, the largest of which is analogoui to the Cricoid Cartilage. There are neither Thyroid nor Arytenoid Cartilages, nor E}iiglottis, iii Birds. The Rima GlottkUs is a simple Chink or Slit, with Muscular sides, which can merely open and close the passage, having no connection W'ith the formation of Voice. In place of the E})iglottis, there are, in rnany Birds, Cartilaginous Papilla* upon the edge of the Glottis, to prevent the Aliment from going into the Lungs. In the Ostrich, there is a slight elevation, which some have considered as an Epiglottis. The Trachea, is composed of Cartilages or of Bone, which form complete rings, and these overlap each other at their edges in such a manner, that the diame- ter of the Tube is not affected by any twisting of the Neck. Its form is commonly cylindrical, sometimes co- nical, at other times it has dilatations and contractions, as in some of the Shimming' Birds.Part IL] S33 OF BIRDS. The Rmgs of the Trachea have no visible IMuscuIar Fibres, but only Membranes fixing them together; though in larger Birds, as the Cassoxoarij and Ontrichy they are observed to be covered with transverse Muscu- lar Fibres, from which it is presumed they exist in ail. The length of the Trachea varies in different Birds with that of the Neck. It sometimes differs in the twa) sexes of the same Species, especially in Biixls of the A- quatic kind, as is observed in tlie Male Wild Szoau, the Crane, and Indian Cock. In these, the Trachea makes large convolutions, partly without and partly within the Cavity of the Thorax, before entering the Lungs; yet there are no such turns in the Trachea of the He- ron, Sto7'k, Bittern, See. ; these, however, are not pro- perly Diving, but Wading Birds. The use ascribed to this structure is, to retain the in- spired air, and thus furnish a sufficient supply of Oxy- gen to the Animal while diving in deep water in search of prey, or flying in rarified air. These Convolutions have been compared to the wind- ings of a French Horn, and Birds possessing such a d'ra- chea are said to be fine singers. But this has been doubted, more especially as such a structure is not found in Singing Birds. The under end of the Trachea, or Inferior Glottis, or Vocal Organ, is formed of tense Membranes, and appears like the reed of a musical pipe. It is contract- ed into a narrow chink, and divided into two openings by a'slender slip of Bone, which goes from befoie back- ward. Sometimes it is formed by the angle made by the two Bronchi. 'i'heORGANS OF VOICE, &c. [Part II. 231 The Vocal Orcan is furnished with Muscles from the O surrounding parts, and these vary in number in diffe- rent Species. The strength of the Muscles of the Inferior Larynx, was found, by Mu Hunter, to be in projwrtion to that of the Voice. Tliey appeared stronger in the Common Cock, but weaker in the Capon ; and here the Animal lias not the power of crowing. The Muscles of the Larynx of the Nightingale were found stronger than in any other Animal of the same size. At the Inferior Larynx the Voice of the Animal is chiefly formed, as may be'observed by cutting the Tra- chea across below the Superior Larynx, in a living Bird ; or in a dead one, after performing the same ope- ration, blowing in air till it distends the Body, then suddenly forcing it out again ; or by cutting out the tinder end, with part of the Bronchi, and blowing air from the I’ulmonary Extremity. 'J he Inferior Glottis is compared to the reed at the movith of the wind instruments, as the Clarionet, &c. the Superior Glottis to the holes, and the Trachea to the Body of the instrument. '1 he 7?ronc7if are formed of two Tubes, which, like the Trachea, are commonly cylindrical,, but sometimes have dilatations and contractions, and are composed of Cartilaginous or Osseous Arches, the curves varying occasionally by the action of the IMuscles. 'i he Bronchi proceed in angles more or less acute, but are never subdivided, till they enter the Lutigs, after which they lay aside their Cartilaginous struc- ture, and become entirely Membranous; but the SxoanPart II.] OF BIRDS. 235 Szcan and Cassoz^ary are observed to be exceptions to this last circumstance. In the Males of the Genus Anas, and Mergus, or Duck tribe, the Bronchi form Osseous Cavities, which give particular tones to their voice. The Lungs of Birds differ from those of the Animals of the former class, in several circumstances. They oc- cupy but a small part of what, in Quadrupeds, forms the Thorax; they are firmer in their texture, and not divided into Lobes, though separated above by the Ribs, the interstices of which they occupy. They ad- here, at their upper part, to the inner side of the Tho- rax through their whole length ; while below, they have a flattened appearance, where they lie over the Air- Cells. They adhere to the upper surface of the Pleura, in such a manner, that they may be considered as lying on the outside of the Cavity of the Chest. .They consist of two red spongy masses, which have less Cellular Sub- stance than in Mammalia, but the Cells are much larger in proportion. The Bronchi do not all end in the Cells of the Lungs; many terminate on their surface, the Pleura being here Cribriform, and allowing air to pass by considerable orifices into Cells, which conduct it through the whole Body. The Air Vesicles are of great size, but vary much in this, as well as in their form, in different Birds, and in different parts of the same Bird. They cover and inclose all the Viscera of the Thorax and Abdomen, and communicate by wide openings with each other. Most of the Cells are subdivided, especially in large Birds,[Paut II. ‘23C ORGANS OR VOICE, &c. Rirds, by incomplete transparent partitions, \vliich al- low the air u> pass from one j)art of the Cells to another, and prevent them from being over-distended. In Adult Rirds, the Air-Cells not only communicate with each other by considerable apertures, but also . with the Cavities in tlie middle of the large Bones, of whatever form. In many, they extend to the Axillae, and under the Pectoral Muscles, and even along the Shoulders under the Skin of the "IVings and lateral parts of the Neck. This is found ]jarticularly to be the case in high-flying Birds, in which, also, they are remar’ ably large. They are extremely thin, but so dense, as to prevent tile air from escaping, except by the apertures which conduct it tlirough the Body. In large Birds, the Cells are furnished with Fasciculi of Muscular Fibres, considt'-red as a Substitute for tlie Diaphragm. These serve to expel the air received in inspiration, and send it back by the Lungs and Tra- chea, in which they are assisted by the Muscles on the Thorax, Abdomen, &c. The distension of these Cells serves to render the A- nimal lighter in flying, so as to buoy it up in the air, and diminish the necessity of Inspiring frequently in a long or rapid flight; and also in singing or swimming’; and in largj b irds, as the Ostrich and Cassoxvanj, iu running. 1 hey answer, besides, as a kind of secondary Lungs to the Blood, and are useful in the expulsion of the Fa?ces, Urine, and contents of the Genital Organs. They are also concerned in respiration, the Langs possessingOF BIRDS. 1*ART II.] S37 OF possessing little mobility on account of their attachment above to the Thorax, which has little motion where they are fixed to it. The rest of the Thorax, however, admits of considerable dilatation, so as to determine the air to the Cells; and the double articulation of the Ribs likewise favours this. Inspiration, in Birds, is owing to a dilatation of the Air-Cells from Muscles acting upon the .Thorax ; or upon the Lungs, as is observed in such large Birds as the Ostrich and CassQxcary, Expiration is produced by a relaxation of the Muscles employed in Inspiration ; by the action of Muscles si- tuated over the Air-Cells; and more particularly about the Abdomen, bringing the posterior part of the Ster- num nearer the Vertebrae; and, according to some Authors, by the power the Lungs themselves, as is observed in the larger Birds. The strength of the Voice is in proportion to that of the Aerial Cavities. This facility of modulating it, de- pends upon the mobility of the Muscles which contract the Lungs. The difference of voice in different Birds depends upon the proportional length, form, consistence, and mobility of the Rings of the I rachea. The cause of the loss of voice in some Birds, as the Quail, Cuckoo^ kc. at certain seasons, is not understood.238 OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL [Part II. The OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. The ^'iscera of the Abdomen, in Birds, are contained in the same common Cavity with those of the Thorax, and, as in the former class, are covered by the Perito- neum, which is here so confounded with the Pleura, that the two may be considered as one Membrane. The Animals of this class being divided into Grani-. vorous and Carnivorous, the Bowels of the two kinds are considerably different from each other. The upper part of the Esophagus agrees in its nature in Birds in general; but in a few, there are peculiari- ties. In the Pelican, there is a remarkable dilatation or Pouch in the Fauces, capable of holding some quarts, and serving as a reservoir of the Food, which commonly consists of Fishes. There is also, in the Male Bustard, a Throat-Sac under the Skin of the Neck, which has an opening of considerable size under the Tongue, but the use is un- known. Granivorous ^irds. The Esophagus is generally a little inclined to the right side of the Trachea, and terminates at the bottom of the Neck in a large Sac, the Ingluvies or Crop, which is of the same structure with the Esophagus, but thinner.2S0 OF BIRDS. Part II.] The Croj7, in the Gallinaceous Birds, is of a globu- lar form, and placed at the fore part of the Chest. The Esophagus terminates at the upper or fore part of this Sac, and proceeds again from its opposite extremity, the Crop forming a sort of Cul-de-Sac between these two orifices. , Upon the inner side of the Crop are numerous Glands, with very distinct orifices, in large Birds which throw out a liquor to assist in the solution of the Food. In many, the Glands are in irregular rows. In the Pigeon, ik.c. which nourish the young from the Crop, the Glands swell remarkably at that time. The Pigeon has a spherical Bag on each side of the Esophagus, and these, in the Poulting Pigeon, are fill- ed with air, so as to give the appearance constantly ob- served. 'Ihe Crop is peculiar to Granivorous Birds, but is ■wanting in the Ostrich. To the Crop succeeds another Cavity, in the shape of a Funnel, called Ventriculus Saccenturiatus,Inf undi- bidum, or Second Stomach. This is situated in the Ab- domen, and is commonly smaller than the former. It is more general among Birds than the Crop, and va- ries much in size in the different Species, it has a covering from the Peritoneum, and is generally thicker than the Esophagus, owing to its numerous Glands, from which a fluid is discharged. In the Ostrich, this Stomach, from its size and form, has the appearance of a Crop. The Mucous Glands here are about the size of Garden-Peas, and have ori- flees uncommonly distinct. It dilates into a Bag ca-210 OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL [Paut II. pable of containing several pints of water, and is much larger than the proper Stomach into which it opens. 'J’he Infundibulum, in Birds, ends in the Ventricidus CcUlosus, Gizzard, or Third Stomach, which, in Galli- naceous Birds, is much larger than the Infundibulum ; but in others, it is the reverse. In the Pie, the Thii'd Stomach is only about half the size of the Second, and in the Ostrich, several times less. It is generally situa- ted in the upper part of the Abdomen, close to the Spine, and resting upon the Intestines; though, in some few Birds, it is covered by these. It is commonly of a globular figure, and a little com- pressed, and is composed of four Muscles, remarkable for their great thickness and strength. 1'wo of these are situated laterally, and have Fibres running in a ra- diated manner about two Tendons placed at the sides of this Organ. The other two Muscles are much smaller than the former, and are situated at the extre- mities of the Stomach. '1 he Gizzard is covered externally wfith a Tendinous Expansion, and lined within by a thick, strong, cal- lous Coat, consideivd by some as a continuation of the Cuticle. In the Chid', it is only a thin Pellicle, and becomes thick from attrition. This Layer forms irregularities in the inner side, which are adapted to each other on the opjiositc sur- faces. I'he Cavity of this Stomach is proportionally small, when compared with its external surface, and its two orifices are remarkably near each other. Its thickness is supposed to compensate for the want of Teeth. So great is the strength of this Organ, that piecesOF BIRDS. i*ART II.] 211 pieces of Money, and even Pebbles of the hardest kind, swallowed by a common Fowl, have, in a few days, lost considerably of their weight. Each of the small Muscles at the extremities of the Gizzard, contains a kind of receptacle for the stones necessarily swallowed, while the digested portion of the Food passes to the Intestines. The Parroquet, and some other Birds, are observed to chew the cud like Ruminant Quadrupeds. Fowls, Geese, &c. having hard and callous Stomachs, are termed Spurious Ruminating Birds. Carnivorous Birds. The Esophagus here is of great size, for receiving the large substances these Animals swallow, and for discharging by the Mouth, Feathers and other substan- ces, that cannot readily be digested. In the Hazok kind, the Esophagus is so wide, as to be considered by some a kind of C’rop ; and so large is this passage in some Fish-eaters, that whole Animals are contained in it till the Stomach can receive them. The structure of the Stomach of these Birds differs much from that of the plurality of Stomachs in the former kinds, being merely a I^lusculo-membranous Sac. 'I he Food,' too, is here more easily digested. But there are many intermediate links in the diversified structure of Stomachs in the Animals of this class. - Most Piscivorous Birds want the Crop; when this is the case, the Infundibulum is larger, as if' to supply its place. The Pylorus, in Birds, has no Sphincter. The Intes- VoL. IV. Q tinal242 OF THE ALniENl'ARY CANAL [Part II. tiiuil (’anal is much sliortcr than In Mammalia. It varies from twice to five times the length of the Animal. In the Ostrich, on the contrary, it is found to be between twenty and thirty times the length. 'I he Canal is also shorter and narrower in- Carnivorous Birds than in those living on vegetable Food, yet many Fish-eaters liave it etjually extensive. In all Birfls, there is a distinction into small and great Intestines, though, to external appearance, the difference is very inconsiderable. The small Intestines are commonly longer than the great, as in Mammalia; but sometimes shorter, as in the Ostrich. The situation, form, and structure of the Intestines, is nearly the same in the greater number of Birds. The Duodenum begins near the termination of the Eso- phagus, but there is a prominence, in some, as the com- mon Fowl, between the two openings, which may prevent the Food from escaping till properly digested. The Gut hangs loose, in the common Fowl, towards the right side of the Abdomen, the rest of the small Tn- testines making turns, and uniting themselves to each othci’. The Intestines are destitute of Valvula? Conni- , ventes in Birds in general ; but in many, there is a Villons appearance in them. There are commonly two Intcstina Ca'ca in Birds, a few of the A(]uatic kind excepted, which have only one. The Caeca arc inserted at the sides of the termination of the Ilium. They are generally smaller at their base, and enlarge towards their shut extremities. They lie parallel to the small Guts, and contain the same kind of Aliment witli them. In Granivorous and Omnivorous Birds,Paut II.] OF BIRUS. (,) 2 The Birds, they arc commonly long, and of considerable diametoi*. In nocturnal Birds of pi'ey, they are in ge- neral very large ; but in the diurnal Birds of prey, they are wanting, or of inconsiderable siiie. 'Hiere are many exceptions to the alx>ve rules. In the Odricli, the Caca are remarkable for their spiral Valves. From the end of the Iliinn, and also from the Caeca, when present, the Colon is sent off*, which is proportion- ally short, and differs from that in many of the Indivi- duals of the former class, in not being formed into Cells. In the Ostrich, however, the Colon, as it advances, , becomes tacked up into Cells, and gradually increases in diameter, contrary to what happens in other Animals. The Intestines are fixed to the Body by the Mesen- tery, which arises from the Spine opposite the Anterior Mesenteric Artery. It is of considerable breadth where it is attached to the small Intestine: but what beloniis to the Colon is narrow, this Gut being more firmly fixed than the rest. The Rectum, previous to its ending in the Anus, forms a dilatation termed Cloaca, which is susjjended under the Os Coccygis, and receives the terminations of the Ureters, the ends of the Vasa Defcrentia, and ]*enis, where it exists ; the opening of the Oviduct in the Female, and the orifices from the Bag termed Barm Fauricii. d'he Cloaca varies in form in different Species, but has more or less of an oval appearance. It serves as a reservoir of Urine and Faeces in both sexes. It is moved by various Muscles which arise from the Bone.s in the neighbourhood.2U OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL [Part II. % The Bursa Fabeicii is situated at the upper and back part of the Cloaca, into which it opens in both sexes. In some of' the large Birds, as the Goose, it is fully, an inch in length, and is lined with Mucous Glands inter- nally. It is largest in young Birds; in old ones, it is quite contracted. It is constantly found empty, and its use is unknown. Tlie Omentum is w'anting in Birds in general, unless a lump of Fat which covers the Intestines in some Aquatic Fowls, be considered as such. In the Ostrich^ there is an Omentum wdth a large quantity of Fat. OF THE ASSISTAJ^T CHYLOPOIE- TIC VISCERA, Liver. The Ziwr is generally larger in proportion, in this class of Animals, than in the former, especially in Birds of prey, and is observed to be larger in Domestkaied than Wild Animals of the same Species. The figure is more uniform in Birds. There are commonly two Lobes of equal size, w hich occupy both sides of the Abdomen ; but in some, the left is larger than the right, or in others, is divided into tw'o Lobules. It is supported by the surrounding Viscera, and is fixed by Processes derived from245 Part II.] OF BIRDS. from the Peritoneum, The colour is a reddish brown, but the tint varying in different Species. The Gall-bladder is placed between the two Lobes of the Liver, and is sometimes closely attached, at other times is loose and pendulous. It is in some oval; in others, of a spherical figure, and, as in the former class of Animals, has its Fundulus placed undermost. In many Species of Birds, the Gall-bladder is want- ing, as in the Pigeon, Parrot, and Ostrich. The Hepatic Duct, in Birds in general, opens sepa- rately from the Cystic, into the Duodenum. There is no communication between the two Ducts; of course, the Bile found in the Gall-bladder does not get there by regurgitation, as it commonly doeskin Mammalia, but du'ectly from the Biliary Vessels in the Liver by means of Hepato-cystic Ducts, which open either into the Fundus or the Cervix of the Gall-bladder. '1 hese, besides supplying it with Bile, assist in connecting it to the Liver. In some Birds, as the Duck, the Hepatic and Cystic Canals unite into a common Tube; and in the Parro~ quet, there are two Hepatic Ducts which open sepa- rately into the Duodenum. Spleex, There is generally one Spleen only, and this varies much in form, being round, oval, reniform, &c. in dif- ferent Birds. It is situated between the Left Lobe of the Liver and the Stomach, and is fixed in its place by Q 3 plies^46 OP THE LIVER, ike. [Part II. plies of t^ie IMesentcrv, as In the foi’iner class. As in Mammalia, it is destitute of an Excretory Duct, ami as in that class of ^Vnimals also, it sends its Bloofl to the Liver, by which }>art of the Jiile is secreted from it Pan'Creas. I he Pancreas of Birds Is situated between the Isolds of the Duodenum, and is generally of considerable size. It varies a good deal in its form, but is commonly long and straight, and is almost always divided into two parts, and in some of the class there is a double Pancreas. Its Structure is the same as in the former class, viz, a Gland of the Conglomerate kind. It commonly sends one, two, or three Ducts, Avhidt are more visible than in other Animals ; and these, with few exceptions, termi- nate distinct from the Biliary Vessels. Of the Insertion of the Biliary and Pancreatic Ducts there is grt*at variety ; but from many comparisons it appears, that the Pancreatic Duct opens first into the Intestine, that the Hepatic is inserted a little farther on, and that at a little distance farther is the termination of the Ductus Cysticus, Kidxeys, The Kidneys, which are proportionally large in this class, arc placed in the Cavities of the Ossa Innominata, at the sides of the Lumbar ^’ertebra', with a few cxccp- ■tions. They form a doidde row of regvdar Lobes, con- nectcrl together, though the first are generally separated from2i7 P.VRT II.] OF BIRDS. from the rest, and arc the largest. On each side, this first Lt)he receives an Artery from the Aorta, the otliers derive them from tlie l emoral Artery. They return their Blood to the Femoral Vein and Vena Cava. Fiach Kidney semis out an Ureter, which terminates in the u]>per part of the common Cloaca, but not in the Penis. The Urinary Bladder is absent in the whole class. The Urine generally mixes with the Fmces, and in the common Fowl, has a chalky appearance. In the Ostrich and Cassoicary, the Cloaca serves as a Bladder, and they are the only Animals of the class which are observed to pass Urine. Rexal Gland. I • The Renal Glands in Birds appear proportionally .small. They are situated at the under and fore part of the Kidneys, are generally of an Orange colour, and uni- form in their substance. OF THE MALE ORGANS OF GE~ NERA TJON. The Testes and Vasa Defercntia are found in all the Male Animals of this class. The Testes are situated in the Abdomen, close to the sides of the Spine, behind. Q 4 the248 OF THE MALE ORGANS [Part II. the Lufigs, and below the fore part of the Kidneys. They are commonly of an oval, but sometimes of a roundish form, and vary much in size in the different Genera and Species. They increase considerably in bulk in the season of their sexual intercourse, and are proportionally larger than in Mammalia. They are co- vered, and fixed in the Body, by a Process of the Pe- ritoneum, and consist of a Congeries of delicate Semi- nal Ducts, vhich are less distinct than in the former class of Animals. The Epididymis here is closely connected to the Tes- tis, and sends out the Vas Deferens.^ which runs in a, flexuous manner near the corresponding Ureter. It becomes larger by degrees, and terminates in the Cloa- ca, distinct from the Ureter ; but frequently, before its termination, it dilates into an oval Sac, that is consi- dered by some authors as supplying the place of a Ve- sicula Seminalis. The Duct is commonly full of an opaque white fluid, and its outer extremity, in some Birds, as the Ducli^ is situated between two Erector 3Iuscles, which, by compression, can discharge its con- tents. The Prostate Gland, in this class of Animals, is w'anting. In general, each Vas Deferens terminates in a Penis peculiar to itself, which is a mere Papilla, placed at the side of the common Cloaca, and pointing outwards, as in the Cock, Turkey, Pigeon, and large Birds of prey. In some, as the Buck, Swan, &c. the Vasa Defe- rentia terminate in a single Penis, which is of con- siderable size, -'>nd in the relaxed situation, is a simplePart II.] ’ «49 OF BIRDS. simple Tube, coiled up, and concealed in a Pouch opening into the Cloaca. In the erect state, it is some inches in length, but this varies according to the size of the Animal. Some Muscles are placed at its root, for giving it the necessary degree of erection, its own elasticity after- wards relaxing it. In the Ostrich^ Hocko^ and Cassowary, the Penis is similar to that in the Drake ; but, in place of a Tube, there is only a Groove for conducting the Semen from . the Cloaca. No rule is yet found with respect to the Birds that have a double or a single Penis. In the OrnitJiorrynchus Paradoxus, there are two Pe- nises, as in Birds. OF THE FEMALE OEGANS OF GE^ NERATION. THE Female Organs consist of the Ovarium, or Race^ mus Vitellorum, Oviduct, and the Cloaca. The Ovi- duct is divided into Infundibulum, Oviduct strictly so called. Uterus, and Vagina. The structure of these parts is so uniform in Bird's in general, that the common Fowl may suffice as an example. The Racemus Vitellorum corresponds with the Ova- rium in Mammalia, is situated under the Liver, be- tween the anterior portions of the Kidneys, and is in- closed250 OF THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part II. I closed bv' a Process oi the Peritoneum, wliich attaclics k to tlie Spine. It consists of’a cluster of Ova, resem- blinfT a buncli of grapes, but varying in size, from tlie full-<mnvn yoke to that of a grain of mustard-seed. The-largest are yellow, the smallest white; and in a Hai beginning for the. first time to lay, the number is about 500. The Ovaria have Rlood-vessels similar to tlioscof Mammalia, which also a.sslst in fixing them in their place. The largest of the Yolks are always found at the outer .-ide. F.ach is inclosed in a Caltjx^ or Membrane, and f,u)>})orted on a Pedicle^ or Foot-stalk, which is fixed to the Ovarium. AYhen the Yolk is ripe, it bursts the Membrane, and is then received by the Infundibulum, which conveys it to the Oviduct. The Infundibulum has a plaited or folded margin, like the Fimbriae of the F.\li,orian Tube, and is connected behind by a round Ligament. The Oviduct is at first straight, but afterwards so convolut- ed, as frequently to exceed the length of the Bird, and gradually increases in thickness and strength, till it , reaches the Cloaca. Externally, it is covered by the .Peritoneum, within which arc some Muscular Fibres. The inner side is formed by a Membrane covered with Follicles, Avhich secrete the white of the Egg. It has a numlier of broad longitudinal folds, and is connected to the Spine by a kind of ^Mesentery. d'he Oviduct terminates, and deposites the Egg, in the Llcrus, which is full of wrinkles internally, and may be considered as merely a dilated part of the Ovi- duct.11) ()1‘ BIUDS. Vat.t II. j i25l duct. In the Utcms, the Egg receives first its form, and then its .shell. The V ’^aghui, in the common Fowl, is about an inch and a half in length. From this the Figg is discharged into the Cloaca^ by the Muscular power of the Uterus, and action of the surrounding parts. The termination of the Vagina is at the left side of the Cloaca, which receives also the end of the Rectum and the two Ure- ters. Behind, and above the Cloaca, is the Bursa Farricii^ so called by the Author, who was of opinion, that the Organ receives and retains the Semen of the Cock; it exists, however, also in the Hen. Behind the Ossa Pubis, is the external opening of the Cloaca, that is larger in the Hen t an in the Coclc. The Anterior Labium, which is the smaller of the two, is covered by the posterior one, termed Vcla- bnini. Structure of the Eg'g.—The Shell is lined by a white and very den.se substance, the Memhrana Albuminisy that is destitute of Blood-ve.ssels. The two liaminac of which this Membrane is compo.sed, are separated at the large end, and leave between them a cavity filled with Atmospheric Air, the FoUiculus Aeris, ,Avhich is larger in an Egg kept for some time tlian in one recent- ly laid. •>> The Membrana Albuminis incloses tfie Glatre of the Egg, which is separated into an outer and inner por- tion ; the inner, as well as the outer, is surrounded by a Membrane, delicate and very dense, and yet allowing the filaire to transpire when the Egg is long kept, especiallyOF THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part II. 5>52 in a warm atmospliere. The outer Glaire, which is more fluid and transparent than the inner, can be readi- ly separated liom it after being boiled, or otherwise hardeiM?d into a coagulum. The inner Glaire incloses the Yolk^ which is contain- ed in a Menil)rane termed Yolk-bag. The Yolk is pro- portionally heavier than the Glaire, and has attached to the Membrane which covers it, two white Bodies like coagulated Glaire, termed Chalazce or Grandines. The other extremities of these Bodies, considerably expand- ed, penetrate and float in the Albumen. The Chalazae form two ends of an axis, being placed at the oj)posite sides of the Yolk, but at a little distance from its centre, in consequence of which the large por- tion preponderates. On the surface of the Yolk-bag is the Cicatricnla or Macula, termed also the Tread of the Cock, w hich is surrounded by concentric circles, the Halones or Cir- cuVt, the use of w^hich, and of the Chalazas, is not yet fully ascertained. The Cicatricula, being placed upon the smaller portion of the sphere of the Yolk, is found uppermost in whatever position the Egg happens to be placed. Changes produced upon the Egg in time Hatching. —This process is effected by the assistance of Atmo- spheric Air, and a certain degree of heat, both of which circumstances are produced by Incubation, or by the Egg being kept for a sufficient length of time, in air heated to an equal degree with that produced by the Animal. But varnishing an Egg all over stops the pro- gress of Incubation, by obstructing the access of the air, thoughPart II.] OF BIRDS. 25S « though covering the large end with a varnish has not that effect. The influence of the Male Semen is supposed to af- fect the Ovum either in the Uterus, or to pass through the Tube, and fecundate the Ova in the Yolk-bag, but in what manner is not yet understood. During Incubation, the Folliculus Aeris is gradually expanded, air being now secreted from surrounding Vessels, which prevents the Chick from being too much moved about in the Shell. The Albumen becomes thinner and more turbid, part'of it escapes through the Shell by evaporation, the rest of it „ is by degrees con- sumed by the Chick, till at last there remains but a. white Cretaceous Substance at the small end of the Shell. The white of a fecundated Egg is somewhat coagu- lable, and perfectly fresh, during the whole period of hatching. The Yolk becomes paler and more fluid for some time, on account of being mixed with the white. Its Membranes become firmer and stronger. By de- grees it becomes depressed in the middle, and forms an Arch about the Chick. It remains quite free from cor- ruption, is coagulable all the time of Incubation, and, during this period, is entirely taken into the Abdomen. The Chalazae degenerate into a chalky-like substance towards the end of Incubation. The Cicatricula, by enlarging, forms the Amnios, which contains the CoUi- quamentum^ or liquor in which the Chick is immersed at the earlier part of Incubation, but which is consumed by the end of it. By degrees, Umbilical Vessels are formed upon the Amnios,OF THE FEMALE OKGAXS [ Fari 11- 254 Amnios, Yolk, and IMcnibvancs c-f the Albameir, iu Avhich last substance the greater part .of tlie Branches are expanded. Tlie lining of the Shell is now cover- ed with Blootl-vossels, expanded upon a Membrane wliich forms the Chorion. Near the end of Iix-.ubatioii', the Umbilical Vessels begin to shrivel, and, at tl>e ex- clusion of the Chick, are quite diminutive. Production of the Chick.—At the end of the ftrst daV, a small white spot, the Aldu,^ PuUi, sen CoHiquamenfuiiiy is discerned near tlie Cicatricula. On the second day, the (,’hick is observcxl in the form of a Gelatinous Filament, and the Cicatricula soon afterwards vanishes. At the end of the second day, Bkxjd-vessels appear upon the sur- face of the Yolk, and these soon become connected to the Chick. The A'^astadar jiart is termed Figura Veno- 6'a, or Area l^a-iculosa. The Arteries arise from the Mesenteric ; the principal AYln goes to the Porta. Be- sides the Blood-vessels, a Canal is ll)rmctl in the coiu-so of Incubation, which joins the Membrane of the Yolk to the Intestinuin Ilium of the Chick, under the name of Duciu.s Vitello-intestinaUs. Third day, the Punctum Salicns, or Hcai't, ajipears, and is distinguished by its motion. The Spine is seen in a curved state, with pro- minences, Avhich are the Bniin and Eyes, the latter of which are remarkable for their great proportional size. Fourth day, the Abdominal Viscera appear, after which the Extremities sprout out. A A’ascular IMembranc, the Cho7-ion, or Menibi'anu Uvibilicalis, begins to form about the ^ Navel, whicli, increasing by degrees, lines almost the whole inner surface of the INIembrana Alba- minis during the latter half of the period of Incuba- tion.Part IL] OF BIRDS. «5r> tion. The Chorion consists of innumerable Arteries and Veins ; tlie latter are distinguished from the former by being filled with pure red Blood, while the Arte- ries have a livid appearance, on account of transmit- ting carbonated Blood from the xVnimal. The Chorion is therefore considered as supplying the office of Respi- ratory Organs, while the Chick lies in the Amnios, and is prevented from breathing. Fifth day, the Lungs are perceived. Sixth, there is voluntary motion. Ninth, Ossification commences; traces of yellow Ves- sels on the Yolk-bag, Vasa VitcUi Lutea, begin to appear. These afterwards expand in the substance of the V'olk, and, by degrees, carry it into the Veins of the Yolk-bag for the nourishment of the Chick. Fourteenth, the Feathers are discerned. Nineteenth, the Animal has the power of using its Vocal Organs, and, some time before its exclusion, may frequently be heard making the same kind of sound that Chickens make after they are hatched; and this in consequence of breaking with the Beak, the Air-bag placed at the great end of the Shell. Tw'enty-first, it makes its ap- pearance, sometimes by bursting the Shell irregularly, at other times perforating the larger end with its Beak. AVhile the Chick lies in the Shell, it is coiled up, with its Neck bent forwards, the Head covered by the Wing, and the Yolk between its Legs. Directly after leaving the Shell, the remains of the Yolk and its Bag are observed in the Abdomen ; the former is taken into the Intestines, and serves for nourishment till the Animal acquires strength enough for another kind of Food. TARTPART III. OF REPTILES. OF THE BONES. The general structure of the Skeleton of Reptiles va- ries much in the different orders of the class. The Cranium^ for the most part, is large in proportion to the size of the Brain, though small when compared with the bulk of the Head. In the Turtle^ the apparent magnitude of the Head is owing to the Accessory Bones, between which and the Cranium there is a large space occupied by Muscles and Glands, and by the Organs of Vision. The Cranium’ is joined to the Vertebrae of the Neck by a single Occi- pital Condyle. The Loiver Jaw is composed of five pieces, one in the middle, and two at each side; and is articulated somewhat after the manner of the articulation in Birds. It has no Condyle^ but a hollow articular sui'face, which is joined to an eminence of the Temporal Bone; a structure the reverse of that in Mammalia. In all other Reptiles, there is nearly the same kind of articulation as in the Turtle. There are no 7'ectli in the Turtle kind, in place of which their Jaws are co- veredS57 OF REPTILES. Paht III.] VoL. IV. ' R atiJ Vered with a Horny substance, similar in structure and connexion to the Hoof on the Foot of the Horse; and so strong, as to be capable of breaking substances of great hardness. The Os Hyoides varies much in this and the other orders of the class, though in general it approaches, in its appearance, to that of Birds. Seven Vertebrce enter into the composition of the Neck. The Trunk is formed of two great portions, the Dorsal and Abdominal Shells. The Dorsal, Lum- bar, and Sacral Vertebrae, are all united into one piece, but the Vertebrae of the Tail are free and moveable. The Dorsal Shell consists of a great number of Os- seous Plates, regular in their position, and approaching to a quadrangular form. They are connected to each other by Suture, and joined to the Abdominal Shell by a thick and very tough Skin. The Abdominal Shell, like the Dorsal, is also com- posed of many plates joined together by Suture, and forming a kind of Sternum, which covers almost the whole inferior part of the Body of the Animal. The Os Innominatum possesses the same number of pieces with that in Mammalia; but the Os Pubis is the largest, and the Os Ilium the smallest of the three. The Rihs are eight in number, but are all anchylosed with the Vertebrae of tlie Back and the Dorsal Shell. They terminate in a border which surrounds the Shell, and are united to it by Suture. The Scapula has a singular situation before the Shell of the Abdomen. The Clavicle consists of two pieces joined in an acute angle. There is also a Forlc-like Bone in these Animals, to which, and to the ClavicleOF THE TONES [Pakt III. and Scapula, the Os Humeri is fixed as in Biixls. T. his and the other four-footed Reptiles have two Rones in the Fore-Ann^ though the division into two is not very distinct. In the Tortoise, the Feet are proportionally small, in consequence of which the Animal is observed to be slow in its motions. 'I’here are three Ranges of Rones in the Carpus, the pieces varying in number in the dilferent ranges. The Phalanges of the Fingers or Toes are nearly as in Mam- malia ; but in the Sea Tortoise, the different pieces are flat, being formed into a kind of Fins. 'I'he Frog and Toad have no motion in the Upper ■Jaw, and they are destitute of real Teeth, though they have pointed Bodies serving as a substitute, and placed in the Palate ; the Frog has them also in the Upper Jaw. The Head is joined by two Condyles to the Spine, which is short, and terminates^behind by a single Rone, articulated with the Os Innominatum. The Dorsal Vcrtchroe have broad Transverse Pro- cesses, that may somewhat supply the place of Ribs, which are wanting here. The Os Sacrum consists of one long Rone. There is no Os Coccygis in these animals. The Scaj)ula is joined to the Sternum by double Cla- vicles, or there is a Clavicle and Fork-like Rone in each \ side. 'I he Fore-Arm and Leg consist of a single Bone, tlivided at its extremities into two portions. The Car- pus is formed of three ranges. The jpreg^has one Rone to the First Digit, tw’o to the second and third Digits, and three to the fourth and fifth. In the Lhard tribe, the Cranium, or at least the ca- \lty for the Brain, is uncommonly small. In a Ci'occ- dUePart III.] OF REPTILES. iim R 2 Tibia, dile that measures between twice and thrice the length of the Human Body, the cavity of die Cranium is only about three inches long, and the third part of that in breadth; and in the Cameleon, it is not found larger than a common pea. The Crocodile has a single Parietal Bone, but both in that Animal and the Lizard^ numerous pieces enter into the composition of the Lower Jaw, which is pro- portionally larger in the former Animal than in any other creature. .The two Intermaxillary Bones form the end of the Maxilla Superior, and surround the Nos- trils. The Under Jaw corresponds with that of other Animals of the class, in having an Articular Cavity for receiving a Condyle of the Temporal Bone. An uncommon structure is observedi in the TeetJiy which consist of two Sets, one contained within the other, which is found to facilitate their change. The Head is joined to the Atlas by a single Condyle. Lizards have perfect Ribs, of which there are twelve pairs in the Crocodile, but the Sternum is in a great measure Cartilaginous. This Animal is remarkable in having a double Sternum, one belonging to the Thorax^ and another extending along the Abdomen as far as the Pubes. There are Seven Cervical Vertebrae Irere, but the five last are found to be so encased, tlrat the Animal cannot turn the Neck laterally. 'I'he Sacral Vertebra- are all joined injo one piece in all the Animals of this - order. The Bones of the Extremities have nothing very remarkable. ' ' In the Salamander, the Sternum, Clavicle, and Sca- pula, are in one piece, which receives the Head of the 6r)s Humeri. In this class, the Fibula, as well as the2G0 [Part III.' OF THE BONES Tibia, is in general articulated directly with the Os Fe- nioris ; and in all, the Astragalus is joined to the Tibia, and the Os Calcis to the Fibula. Of the Serpents, one set move the under Jaw only, another set, viz. the Vipers and Venoinovs Serpents, move both Jaws. The Lower Jaw is articulated by a Glenoid Cavity, which corresponds with a Condyle of the Tem- poral Bone at the bottom of the Cranium. . Serpents, whether innoxious or poisonous, are divided according to the nature of their Teeth. The former have both Jaws beset with small Teeth in two i-ows, with an interval between them. In the Poisonous Species, the outer row in the upper Jaw is wanting, but their place is supplied by long hollow Tuslcs, which are con- nected with the Bag containing the poison, and serving as Excretory Ducts to convey it from the Glands at their roots, into the wound the Animal inflicts. The Tusks lie concealed in the Jaw, but can be darted ouL at the will of the Animal. In all the poisonous Ser- pents, the Tapper Jaw is moveable on the Cranium. This allows them to open the mouth widely, by which they are enabled occasionally to swallow an Animal en- tire, the diameter of which sometimes surpasses that of their OAVn Body. Serpents are remarkable for the number of their Ver- tebrcc, which form almost the whole Skeleton. They vary in number from about -30 to upwards of S50, and are nearly of the same form from the Head to the Tail. They arc connected by Ball and Socket. This articulation, however, is of such a nature as to allow fre^j motion laterally, but little in a vertical direction. . ThePart IIL] OF REPTILES. ‘ 261 The last Vertebra of the Tail in the Rattle-snake sup- ports the Rattle. The Sternum is wanting, and, there being no Limbs, the Bones of the E?:tremities of course are absent. OF THE MUSCLES. ^r'liE two principal divisions of the Animals of tlifs class, viz. those with, and those without Feet, have a remarkable difference in the form and number of theiif Muscles. In the former, viz. the Turtle^ F'og^ &c where the Trunk of the Body possesses proportionally a small degree of mobility, a number of Muscles are wanting, though the others ai’e strong. In the Animals of this class without Feet, namely, the Serpents, the Muscles are slender, but extremely numerous, on ac- count of the number of the Vertebrae, and the Avant of Anterior and Posterior Extremities. In the Turtle, the Spine possesses no motion but in the parts belonging to the Neck and Tail. The Back and Loins, being ossified together, have no Muscles. Tlie Diaphragm, and also the Muscles of the Abdo- men, are Avanting; but the other Muscles are remark- ably strong. The Neck possesses chiefly Muscles for elongation and retraction; the Neck being bent, Avhen retracted into the Shell, someAvhat like a Z, though it can be moved in various directions Avhen it protrudes from the Shell. The INIuscles for these motions are nu- R 3 merous.9M or THE MUSCLES [Part HI, merous. Some pass from the under and fore part of the Back Shell to the Vertebrae of the Neck, and otlieTs from one set of Vertebra; to another. One Mu^le is peculiar to this Animal, which arises from die first J>orsal A'ertebra, and is fixed to the sixth and seventh Cervical VertebriE. It begins the extension of the Neck, when the Head is concealed in the Shell. About half a dozen pairs of Muscles lie on the back part of the Neck, chiefly for raising the Head, or pull- ing it laterally. A few Muscles also appear below, par- ticularly one supplying the place of tlve Sterno-mastoi- deus, for bending the Head, and producing a slight ■ele«v’ation of the Shoulder. The Muscles of the Shoulder are only three in num- ber, and are analogous to the Trapezius, Levator Sca- pulae, and Subclavius. The Muscles of the Humerus are more numerous than in other Animals, to give the necessary motions in swimming. They arise from the Bones of the Shoulder, and from the inner side of the Dorsal and Abdominal Shells. The Pectoralis IVIajor is composed of several portions. There are something like two Deltoids. 'J he other jMuscles are analogous to the Latissimus Dorsi, Levator Brachli, Teres Major, and Biceps. 'J he Muscles of the Fore-arm, and remaining part of the Anterior Extremity, are in a great measure A- poneurotic, the Member being in the form of a Fin, as in the Cetacea. 'I his is particularly the case in the Sea Tortoise, where the Aluscles arc Aponeurotic Bands, which strengthen the Articulations. Muscles of' the Posterior Extremity.—There is a Muscle,OF REPTILES. Part III.] 26S Muscle, analogous to the Quadratus Lumborum, lying under the Dorsal Shell, and moving the Os Ilium ; and another, supplying the place of a Rectus Abdominis, arising from the posterior extremity of the Abdominal Shell, and fixed to the Pubes. Of the Muscles ot the Thigh, there are different Adductors. A Muscle from the Pubes is fixed to the small Trochanter, and holds the place of the Iliacus and Psoas. One INIuscle arises from the Spine, and two from the Pubes, Adiich corre- spond to the Glutei. A Muscle analogous ,to the Ob- turator Interims arises from the Ilium, and is fixed to the gi'eat Trochanter. The Muscles of the Leg are analogous to the Semi-membranosus, Semi-tendinosus, and Sartorius. T'here is an Extensor, a Rectus, and two Bicipitcs. One remarkably thin INIuscle arises from the Coccyx, and passes under the Skin of the Exti'e- mitj to its insertion, nearly opposite the Heel. It bends the Leg, and extends the Foot. In the Sea Tortoise, the Muscles of the Foot, and also of tiie Toes, are chiefly Aponeurotic. In the Frog, few Muscles belong to the Spine. A iMuscle analogous to the Coccygeus draws the Coccyx into the same direction w’ith the Spine. There is a sort of Sacro-lumhalis, which is fixed to the Transverse Processes of the Vertebrae, and extends as far as the Head; an Ohliquus Superior, a Rectus Anterior, and Intertransversales. T he Abdominal Muscles, on account of the want of Ribs, are inserted into the Sternum. There are few Muscles belonging to the Plead; most of those inserted R 4 intf?OF THE MUSCLES [Part HI. into it are likewise employed in moving the Superior Extreniities. Anterior Extremity.—Of the Muscles of the Shoulder, the Serratus jMagnus arises from the Head and I'rans- verse Processes, and goes to the Scapula. The Pecto- raljs IVIinor is wanting. The Levator Scapulas arises from the Occiput. The Omo-hyoideus is present, but the Trapezius is w'anting. There is a Rhomboideus, but no Subclavius. Tlie Muscle analogous to the Ster- no-mastoideus goes from the Scapula to the Head. The Muscles of the Arm consist of a Pectoralis Major, and an assistant to it; a Latissimus Dorsi, a Subscapu- laris, supplying also the place of the Coraco-brachialis, and a Deltoid. The Supra and Infra Spinatus, W'ith the Teres Major and Minor, are absent.—Of the Muscles of the Fore-arm. A Sterno-radialis supplies the place of the Biceps, d'here is no Brachialis Internus, but a large Triceps, a Supinator, and a Pronator. The Muscles of the Hand are similar to those in Mammalia. The Thumb has an E-xtensor, but wants all the other !Muscles. Posterior Extremities.—The Psoas Parvus is wanting, but there is a Quadratus Lumborum which moves the Os Ilium. 'I here is only one Gluteus, which supplies the ])lace of the Medius. The Pyriformis, the Gemini, and Obturator Internus, arc wanting; a long Quadra- tus Femoris, no Psoas Magnus; an Iliacus Internus, Pectinalis, three Adductors, an Obturator Externus, though no Foramen 'J hyroideum. Of the Muscles of the Leg, the IMuscle supplying the place of the Vasti and Cruralis has only two heads. The^ RectusOF REPTILES. • Part III,] 265 Rectus is wanting. The Biceps has only one belly, and is fixed to the Tibia, there being no Fibula. There is a Semi-membranosus, Semi-tendinosus, Gracilis, but no distinct Popliteus.—Muscles of the Foot and Toes. The Gastrocnemius has only one belly ; there is no Soleus nor Plantaris. The Tibialis comes off from the Os Femo- ris, and has an assistant which arises from the Tibia, and goes to the long Bone of the Tarsus. There is a Tibialis Posticus, but only one Peroneus. The Exten- sor Longus Digitorum, and Flexor Proprius Pollicis, are wanting. There is a distinct Extensor Brevis Digi- torum, Superior and Inferior, Interossei, and a Flexor Digitorum Communis. OF THE INTEGUMENTS. The Integuments of Reptiles consist of simple Skin, Scales, Rings, or Shields, and all of these covered with Cuticle. The greater number are covered with Scales. The surface of the Body differs from that in the former classes, in having neither Hairs nor Fea- thers. In the Turtle, the Epidermis is only distinct upon the Neck and Limbs; in other parts of the Body, it is incorporated with the Shell. In the Frog and Sa» lamander, the Cuticle is a Mucous Membrane, which separates in tatters at different seasons of the year. LAzardSfOF THE INTEGUMENTS [Part HI. ftm Lizards, botli of the water anti land kind, frequently change their Skin, which is pulled oft’ ehlt*fly by the assistance of the Feet. In Snakes, it comes off* at moulting seasons, forming what is called the Snake's Shirt. In the Tortoise, the Shell never changes. Tlie Scales vary according to the kind. In the Tor- ioise, they are of a Horny nature, dift’ering in hardness and figure. In \\\q Crocodile, t^iey are Osseous. In a great part of Lizards and Serpents, they are small plates of Skin, with the Cuticle between them. In Reptiles with Scales, as the Lizards, the Skin is dry. In those with naked Skins, as the p7'og and Salamander, it is moist, being covered with a viscid -fluid. In Serpents, there is a strong Skin under the Scales, intimately connected with the Muscles. 'Fhe Cellular Substance, more or less loose in Rep- tiles, connects the Skin to the parts underneath. In the Fro^ and Toad, the Integuments are remark- able in adhering to the Body at certain points only, and there, chiefly by Vessels and Nerves, viz. about the iMouth, Linca Mediana of the Body, Arm-pits, and Groins. In other parts, the Animal lies loose in the Skin, as in a Bag. Between the Epidermis and Skin, and under the Scales, the Corpus Mucosiim is situated, which varies in aflour, having all the different tints in the different in- dividuals of the class. In the Camcleon, some Frogs, ^c. the colour changes occasionally, in consequence of light, heat, effects of pas- sion, &c. In a Toad kept constantly in the light, tlie colour changes to a pale green; while the same kind ©fPaut III.] OF REPTILES. of Au'mial, lurking in the earth, acquires the colour of the substance which surrounds it. Reptiles have likewise their PapilltB Nervosoe^ but. these aiv; found chiefly in the Feet. The Glands of the Skin are more visible in this than in some of the prec-eding classes. In the Lizanl, there is a range of Follicles under each Buttock, which dis- charge a viscid humour. In the Toad, Glands are ir- regularly dispersed over the Skin; and in the Salaman- der, along the Back, which throw out an acrid matter, especially when the Aninmls are irritated; yet these Reptiles are often handled with impunity. The Pamiiculus Carnosus exists in the Neck of the Turtle, and some appearance of it is observed in the Neck of the Frog; but in the Body of the Animal, it is wanting. The Clau'S on the Digits of the individuals of this class, are wanting wherever the Animal does not use its feet for seizing its prey, or for walking, as in tlie Tortoise, Frog, &c. I OF THE TRAIN. Brain of Reptiles, consisting, as in the former classes of Animals, of Cerebrum and Cerebellum, is extremely small in proportion to the size of the Cra- nium.OF THE BRAIN [Part IIL ^G8 • nium. In some, it is several thousand times less than the Body, and without being divided into Circumvolu- tions. It is covered by the same Membranes as in Mamma- lia and Birds, but the Dura Mater has no Processes. The Cerebrum consists of four roundish eminences, viz. two Hemispheres, and two Thalami Optici, which are remarkable in their situation, being placed behind the Hemispheres. It has Lateral Ventricles, with Corpora Striata, and a Ventricle besides, in each of the Thalami, which communicates with the third. This last has an Anterior and Posterior Commissure, but the Nates and Testes are wanting. The Cerebellum lies behind the Cerebrum, and has no Arbor Vitm. A fourth Ventricle exists in the Turtle, and probably also among the other orders of the class. The Spinal Mar row, in mo.st of the Sj^ecies, is of great size when compared with the Brain. 'I'he Olfactory Nerves arise from the Anterior Extre- mities of the Hemispheres, and go to the Nose, after the same manner as in Birds. The Canals receiving them have a common opening from the Cranium. The Optic Nerves are less or more connected, as in the two former classes ; but there is scarcely any union of their Medullary Substance. The Third Pair also agree in general with those in Birds and Mammalia. The Fourth are nearly similar in all red-blooded Animals. I’lie Fifth, as in the for- mer Animals, are also divided into three Branches. The Sixth agree with those of Mammalia and Birds. Of the Seventh Pair, the Portio Dura is small, there beingPart III.] OF REPTILES. S69 being little soft substance in the parts of several of those Animals on which this Nerve is dispersed. The Portio Mollis is smaller or larger in proportion to the extent of the Organ of Hearing. The Eighth and Ninth have nothing remarkable. The Great Sympathetics have evident Ganglia, like those of Birds, and are also con- nected with the neighbouring Nerves. They form a Cardiac Plexus, a Ramus Splanchni^cus, and are at last lost upon the origin of the Taih The Cervical Nerves, in the Tortoise^ are distributed nearly as in Mammalia. The three last pairs enter into the composition of the Brachial Plexus. In other Reptiles, the Nerves vary in number and distribution, according to the number of the Cervical Vertebrae, and,the presence or absence of the Ribs. Of the Brachial Plexus^ the three last Cervicals, and iirst J)orsal, go to the Anterior Extremity. In Fix>gs, instead of a Plexus, a single large Nerve goes to the Anterior Extremity. In Serpents, the Brachial Plexus is Avanting, there being no external Members. There is no proper Diaphragmatic Nerve in any of the class. The Dorsal and Lumbar Nerves agree in number with that of the Vertebrae. The Sacral and Caudal Nerves are not very distinct. They lose themselves in the Bones, Muscles, and Skin pf the posterior parts of the Body. The Posterior Extremity has the same distinction of Obturator, Anterior Crural, and Sciatic Nerves, as in Mammalia; but they vary a' little in their origins and distributions, according to the shape of the Mem- ber. In the Frog, these Nerves are readily‘traced. OFf)F THE EVE «Ta [Past IIL OF TIIJ^. EYE. Kijc of Reptiles lias lieen. Iklle attended ta, 'J’licrc is some variety in the Eye-lids of the different, orders. The Tortoise, Crocodile, and Frog kind, have three, as in Birds. The third is proportionally the lai-gest. Some Rej)tiles with Feet, and the Serpents, have no Eyc-lids, the common Integuments forming a kind of 'vindow, behind which the Eye moves freely. Tin,' Laapmal Gland is as variable here as the Eye- lids. In the Sea Turtle, it is large and lobulated. The fresh water Turtle, the Frog, and Toad, have Glands of diminutive size. In Serpents,, the Lacrymal Gland is wanting; In the Turtle and many Lizards, tliere is an Osscousi Ring on the fore part of the Eye, composed of different plates, as in Birds. 'I he Iris, in Reptiles, generally presents a beautiful gilding. The Ciliary Processes vary in length in different Rep- tiles. In the Turtle, they are observed with difficulty, but they leave a distinct impression upon the ^ itreous Humour. In the Crocodile, they axe prominent, and have a Ple.vus of Blood-vessels^ which are very distinctly seen. 'I'he Lens is nearly of the same form as in Birds. d ho Optic Nerve passes througli the bottom of the Eye271 OF REPTILES. Part IIL] the Eye by a round hole, and, after cntei’lng the Ball, forms a Tubercle, from the edges of which the Retina is sent oft*. In the Tortoise and Crocodile, si.K Muscles surround the Optic Nerve, and serve for the dift'erent motions of the Eye. In the Frog and Toad, there are only three,.. Hnited into a Funnel wliich embraces the Nerve. OF THE EAR, The Organ of varies more in this than in any other class of Animals. There is no External Ear nor Meatus Externus in Reptiles, d he Crocodile 'll XhcoxAj instance given of a sort of External Ear, and two fleshy Lips for an External Meatus. The Membrana Tympani is present in some of the class, and wanting in others. In the Turtle and Frog, it is upon a level with the suifacc of the Body, and is covered by the Integuments. In the former, it is com- posed of a Cartilaginous Plate, and in the latter, as well as in the Toad, it is distinguished by differing in colour from the rest of the Skin. In the Lizard, the Skin over the Tympanum is known from its transparency, like the Cornea; but in many, as the Chameleon, the iVIembrana 'i'ympani is wanting, or cannot bf? distinguished fi'om the rest of[Part III. 272 OF THE EAR the Skin. It is wanting, also, in the generality of Ser~ pcnts. A Tympanum, Eustachian Tube, and Semicircular Canals, are present in the Turtle, Frog, and in most Lizards. In the Turtle, the Tympanum is in some measure divided into two parts by a contraction, which is more distinct in tlie Crocodile, where the inner apart- ment has Cells, somewhat like those in the Mastoid Pro- cess in the Human Species, hut larger. In Lizards, the Frog, Toad, ttc. the 'Fynipanum is Membranous ^be- hind, and has a short but large Eustachian Tube, which communicates with the Mouth. There is neither Tympanum nor Eustachian Tube in Serpents, and a few others ; but a rudiment of a Carti- laginous Ossiculum exists in some, which is inclosed in Muscular matter, the inner extremity occupying the Fenestra Ovalis. In the Turtle and Lizards, as in Birds, there is a simple Ossiculum 'Juditus, with a small Cartilaginous Stalk, which is joined to the Membrana Tympani. 'I'he Frog and Toad have two Cartilaginous Ossicula, one joined to the Membrana 'lympani, the other articulated with it, and with the Fenestra Ovalis. In Serpents, thei-e is a rudiment of an Ossiculum, the outer end of w hich touches the Skin, the inner the Fe- nestra Ovalis. Of the Muscles of the Ossicula, little is known in Reptiles. The Semicircular Canals, in many of the individuak of this class, approach to a circle; each has an Am- pulla, and. there is a Sac in place of a Vestihle ; but the Fenestra Rotunda, and a complete Cochlea, are wanting, thoughOF REPTILES. 2T3 Part III.] S The VoL. IV. though there is the vestige of the latter in some of the class. In the Tortoise and Lizards^ the Sac contains a quantity of chalky matter, which, in the Crocodile and some other Lizards^ is formed into three small, soft, stony concretions; and there is a kind of Cochlea formed by a prolongation of the Sac. It is of a conical form, is slightly curved, has a Cartilaginous partition divid- ing it into a double Canal, and is something similar to that in Birds. There is a vestige of it also in Ser- pents. In the Frog., Toad, and Salamander, the Sac contains also a Cretaceous Matter. The Membranous Labyrinth has many Blood-vessels, which are very visible in some of the large Reptiles. It has also Nerves which are analoe-ous to the Portio O Mollis in Man, and these are plentifully dispersed upon the Sac and the Ampullae. OF THE NOSE. The Organ of Smell is less extensive in Reptiles than in the former classes. Some have two or three Cartila- ginous Eminences, covered by the Schneiderian Mem- brane ; others merely a thickening of that INIembrane. These eminences are somewhat analogous to the Con- chae of warm-blooded Animals, and divide the Cavity of the Nose into so many Fossulae; but they have no . Osseous Laminae.OF THE NOSE 274 [Part III. The Nostrils have some Muscular Fibres, which give them a small degree of contraction and dilatation. The Intei-nal, or Posterior Nares,' are placed farther for- wards than in other Animals. In the Crocodile., on the contrarv, they are far back. There is no\'elum Palati. The Foramen Incisivum is con.siderable in some, as the Turtle, Frog', Crocodile, and Salamander; but in o- thers, it is not perceivable. . , The Nerves here aj‘e much the same^as in Birds. In the Turtle, the Olfactory is a strong, though slender Nerve; the Ramifications arc' easily traced in the Cavi- ty of the Nose. OF'THE MOUTH. r/7 Jt oNGUE.—The Tongue here varies in the shape, size, and general appearance. In some, it is very extensible ; in one or two rare instances, it is so much fixed down, that its existence in such has been denied. Of the Pa- jrilla:, there is only one kind, there being nothing like Glands placed in Calices. In some of the class, as the Turtle, many Lizards, &c. it is closely covered, at its anterior margin, -with long, soft, conical Papilla*, which give the appearance- of Velvet. In a great part of the Lizard tribe, the 'Pongue is capable of being considerably elongated, in consequenceFart IIL] OF UEFTILES. 275 consequence of the action of ]\Iuscles connected to tlie Os Hyoides, &c. In the Frog and Toad^ the Tongue is large, flesliy, smooth, and covered with Mucus. In the state of rest, it is doubled upwards and backwards in the Mouth. In seizing the prey, it is thrust so far out of the Mouth, as to lay hold of Insects or other Food, by doubling it- 'self down. t In the Crdcodile, the Tongue is quite fleshy, and has very short .Papilla, but is so fixed down, as to be scarcely observable. In “the Salamander, it is fixed as far as its point, motion being only allowed in the lateral parts. In the common Lizard, the Tongue is remark- able for its extensibility. It is forked at its extremity, and terminates by two long semi-cartilaginous, but flexible points. The Tongue of the Chameleon is wrinkled transverse- ly ; is club-shaped and hollowed above. It is concealed in a sheath, and covered with a glutinous fluid, and is thrust five or six inches from the Mouth in catching Flies, &c. In Serpents, the Tongue is round and slender, re- markably smooth, has a horny appearance, and is fork- ed at Jts anterior extremity. In most of the Species, the root is inclosed in a Membranons Sheath, and the tongue can he thrust out to a considerable extent. Salivary Gland.—In some Reptiles, as the Turtle and many Lizards, though not in the Lizards of this country, the Tongue is composed, in a great measure, of a tliick Glandular mass, covered with innumerable S 2 Tubes<276 OF THE MOUTH [1'art III. The Tubes united at their basis, and discharging a secreted liquor from tlicir other extremities. The Amphibia of Cuvier, viz. the Seal and WalruSy have the same apparatus, but not in the same situation, being directly under the Tongue. Besides these Glands, some Serpents, viz. all with Tusks or Fangs in their Upper Jaw, have others which correspond with the Salivary Glands of IMammalia. They are jdaced behind each Orbit, and have tv'o Muscles, which, by raising the Tusks, compress the Glands, and push the venom through Canals in the Fangs, which terminate by an oblique opening at their point, and serve as Excretory Tubes to the Glands. OF THE HEART AND BLOOD- VESSELS. ^Fue general structure of the Heart is the same among the different Animals of the class, but there is some variety among the different orders. The Turtle tribe, the Lizards, and man}' of the Serpents, have two Au- ricles, and an appearance of two \'entricles. In the Frog' kind, there is but one Auricle and one Ventricle. In many Reptiles, the Auricles arc proportionally much larger than in the two preceding classes. The Colum- nse Carncai arc less raised. The Bight Auricle receives- thc Blood I'rom the Body, the Left from the Lungs.277 OF REPTILES. Paet Ill.j The Ventricles have Cavities small in proportion to their external appearance, owing to the great thickness of their walls. Internally they have, in the three first or- ders or tribes, numerous Columna.' Carneas. In the Turtle kind, there is a strong Pericardium, united to the Peritoneum, in the manner the Diaphragm is united to the Pericardium in the Human Body. 'J he two Auricles are separated by a complete parti- tion. The two Cavae terminate in the Right Auricle, where there are two Valves, and the Pulmonary Veins in the Left, where there are also a pair of Valves. Each Auricle communicates with a corresponding I'en- tricle. I'he two Vcntiicles communicate by a large opening. In the Right Ventricle, there is a hollow Muscular Valve, which prevents the return of the Blood to the I.,eft. The Arteries arise from the Right \Tntricle only. They come off' in three large Trunks, or there are three Aortay two of which go to the Abdomen. The Right is the projyer Abdominal Aorta; the Left, the Ductus Communicativus of Merv ; and Third, the Pulmonary Artery. In consequence of this structure, the Aortic Circula- tion can proceed without interruption while the Animal is under water, which is diff'erent from what happens in the two former classes. In the Lizard tribe, the Pericardium adheres, as in the Tortoise^ to the Peritoneum, which covers the con- vexity of the Liver. The Auricles are in general simi- lar to those of the Tortoise, but the Ventricle is observ- ed to varv much in certain Genera and Species of this S .‘I oi’der«7S OF ME HEART, &c. [Part III. order. In others, particularly in the Crocodile, it is more complex, being formed into three apartments, Avhich have numerous orifices in their partitions, and these receive the Blood from the Right and Left Au- ricles, as in the Tortoise, where also Valves ire placed to prevent its return. From the different apartments the three great Arteries go out, viz. the Right and Left Aorta, and Pulmonary Artery. In the Serpents, the Heart is more simple than in thr Crocodile ; there are two Aui icles and a Ventricle, with two apartments, and a large communication, or the Heart here resembles, in structure, that of the Tor- toise ; there are, within the \'cntricle, also two Auricular Valves, and many Columnae Carnea?; the former pre- venting the return of the Blood to the Auricle, the latter mixing the Blood from the Lungs, and that from the rest of the Body, intimately together. In the /V'o^and Salamander Jquatica, the Heart has only one Auricle and one Ventricle, with some Col urn- nae Carneac, but these not detached from the sides of the Ventricle. The Ventricle opens into the common 'J'runk of tlic Artery by a single orifice. PRtNciPAL Blood-Vessels. Tortoise.—From the Right Ventricle two or three large Arteries arise, which are joined together for a short space, 'i ne Pulmonary Artery arises on the left side, and soon divides into right and left Branches which go to the corresponding Lungs. The ’[ runk of the Aorta commences at the right side of the base of thr279 OF REPTILES. Part III.] the Heart, and immediately divides into the right and left Posterior Aortte, or sometimes the two Aortse arise separately. The Right Aorta furnishes the Aorta Anterior, that soon divides into two Branches, of which, one is the common Carotid, the other is the Subclavian. The Carotids are dispersed like those in Mammalia. The Subclavians are also nearly as in Man. Lizards.—In the Crocodile, there are three principal Arteries, each with two Semilunar Valves. 1. 'Ihe Pulmonary Artery on the left side. 2. The Aorta Pos- terior Sinistra. 3. The Aorta Posterior Dextra. 'I he three Arteries are joined together for some space, as in the former order. Serpents.—The Lung being single here, and the Ex- tremities Avanting, renders the Blood-vessels more simple than in the former orders. Frog and Salamander.—The Aorta soon divides into two Branches; each of these produces a Pulmonary, a Carotid, and Subclavian, and Arteries similar to the Intercostals, then turns back, and unites with its fellow. The Trunk resulting furnishes the Coeliac and other Arteries, which generally come off from the Abdominal Aorta. i Veixs. The Turtle tribe have two Posterior Cavae, which, after passing the anterior part of the Liver, are each joined by an Anterior Cava of the same side, formed bv the common Trunk of the Jugular and Subclavian. S 4 Alli280 OF THE HEART, &c. [Part III. All go into a Receptacle, which opens into the Right Auricle by a chink bordered by two Valves. The Pulmonary Veins unite in one Trunk, which goes into a similar Reservoir; and this opens into the I>eft Auricle, where there is also a Valve. In the Lizard and Serpent tribe, there is only one Posterior, but two Anterior Cava?, which open into a similar Reservoir ; and this goes into the Auricle by a chink which has two Valves. 'I he Pulmonary Veins are similar to those of the former order. In the Sei'pents, there is but (me Pulmonary Vein, which goes into the Left Auricle. In the Frog and Salamander, the Veins have a distri- bution similar to the Arteries. There are two Anterior Cavte and a Cava Posterior, all ending in one Auricle. OF THE ABSORBENTS. As in Birds, the Transparency here, joined to the want of Glands, long j>rcventcd the Absorbents from being discovered. The structure is similar to that in the Ani- mals of the Ibnr.cr class, and, like the Absorbents in these also, they have numerous Valves, but no Glands are found in any part of this system. The Plexus these Vessels so frequently form, are considered by some as sujjplying the place of Glands. Here,OF REPTILES. Part III.] 281 OF Here, as in Birds, the Lymphatics of the Viscera of Digestion and Generation, and those of the Posterior Extremities, join in a Plexus, into which all the other Lymphatics of the Body pass. From this Plexus a short Canal goes out, on each side, which terminates in the Jugular Veins, or in the angles they form Avith the Subclavians. In the Turtle^ the Absorbents of the posterior parts of the Body go to a Plexus, which surrounds the Right Aorta, and then into a Reservoir situated more for- w^ards, under the Left Aorta. From this, two Thoracic ' Ducts, or rather several principal Branches, arise, Avhich advance to those under the Clavicles. Here they join with the Lymphatics of the Anterior Extremi- ties, and of the Head and Neck, and form two very in- tricate Plexus. From the Plexus of the right side, two Branches go out, which terminate in the Jugular Vein, near the angle it forms with the Subclavian. The Left sends out but a single Duct, that opens into the angle of the two Veins. The Absorbents under the Perito- neal Coat of the Intestines, run in straight parallel Branches, according to the length of the Bowel; and a good injection .shews them to cover almost the Avhole surface of the Gut. 'Hie inner surface is no less plen- tifully supplied Avith them, though here they have more the appearance of small Cells. From the Intestines, they go in company Avith the Mesenteric Blood-vessels, and form frequent Plexus and communications. At length they anastomose Avith the Absorbents of the other parts of the Abdomen, and discharge their contents into the Thoi’acic 3Iucts.C)]{GANS OF VOICE, &c. [Part III. S82 OF THE ORGANS OF VOICE AND RES FIR A TION i. HE Lanjnx of Reptiles, like the Superior Lary nx in liirds, is coniposctl of different pieces ; but the appear- ance varies in. different kinds of Reptiles, and some- times in the different sexes of the same Species. There is no Inferior Larynx in this class. Reptiles have neither Epiglottis nor Papillae, though, in the Crocodile, tliere are the rudiments of the former. 'I'he Larynx of the Crocodile has five Cartilages enter- ing into its composition. The Glottis is purely Mem- hranous. The Ligaments of the Glottis are present in all the Animals of the class, but they have neither Lips nor Palatum Molle,, and in genei'al no voice. The Tortoise, several Lizards, and Sc7'pents, can only blow, d'he Frog tribe, especially in the time of their amours, are enabled to croak, or, when in pain, they sometimes make a sharp squeaking noise, having a Larynx adapted to these purposes, the vocal Ligaments and \ entricles of the Larynx being of great propor- tional size. The Males of some Species of Frogs have one or two Sacs, cither in the Throat or Cheeks, which they inflate, in time of copidation, by means of a Fora- men near the chink of the Larynx, opening into each of the Sacs. Here, also, the Rima Glottidis is larger, and the I'rachea longer, than in the Female. 'I'he Trachea, in Reptiles in general, is formed of Cartilaginous28^ Part IILJ OF REPTILES. Cartilaginous Rings,’ though with some exceptions, a.s in the Crocodile, Chameleon, and Serpents. In these last, it has the appearance of being a complete pij)e. The proportion of the Bronchi, compared to the Trachea, is as in Birds; but in Serpents, there are large dilatations. In some of the Turtle and Croeodile kind, the Bron- chi form convolutions; and in some, the Trachea di- vides so soon, as to appear to be double. In most other Reptiles, the Bronchi are very short. For the most part, the Bronchi do not divide, and commonly do not enter into the substance of the Lungs, but terminate abruptly in them by one or more large orifices. The Lungs here, as in Birds, are in the same com- mon Cavity with the other ^ iscera, but vary more in shape and size than in the two former classes. 1 hey form most frequently two oval Sacs, which, in the Turtle kind, extend by the sides of the S[)ine, as far as the Pelvis, and above all the other ^ iscera. I hey dif- fer from those of Birds by the gi’eater size of their Ceils, and the looseness of their texture. In the Turtle, they arc more complicated than in the rest of the individuals of this class, approaching more in their structiu*e to the Lungs of Birds. The Branches of the Bronchi communicate, each by an orifice, with a pai'ticular Sac, the walls of which form Polygonal Cells, varying according to the kind of the Animal. In the Croeodile, the Cells are smaller than in the Turtle. Jn Lizards, Frogs, and Se?pcnts, the I.ungs have, at their anterior part, a Cavity, the walls of which are formedORGANS OF VOICE, Sec. [Part III. -84 OF formed of Polygonal Cells, containing still smaller Cells. Posteriorly, they aj)pcar to terminate in a simple bag. Serpents have, b)r the most part, a single Lung, and here the Trachea terminates direclly into it, without dividino; into Bronchi. In the young of some Reptiles, as the Tadpole, which are j)roduccd in the water, and metamorphose in their first state, in f)lace of Lungs, there arc two Bodies, the Appendices dinihriafev, like Branchiae or Gills, hanging loose by the sides of the Neck.-'! hese are gradually taken into the '1 horax, in which they afterwards disappear. The Siren Laecrtina, and the Proteus Anguinus, are supposed to possess both during life. In Reptiles, part of the Blood only goes to the I.lings, the re.st of the mass going to the other }iarts of the Body, a circumstance different from what happens in the two former classes. The Pulmonary Blood-vessels ramify on the Lungs, and serve also as Bronchial A essels, which are not found here. In Reptiles in general, where the Ribs are either confounded with the other parts of the Thorax, or are so deficient as to be unable to contribute to Respiration,, this process is observed to be effected by the Animal shutting life mouth, dilating the Throat, and produc- ing a void, in consequence of which, the air enters by the Nostrils. The Throat is next contracted, so that it forces the air into the Lungs. Expiration is owing to the action of the iMuscles of the Belly. In opening the Thorax of the Turtle or Frog, the Lungs remain distended for some time, owing to the parts about the Throat acting as a Valve-OF REPTILES. Part III.] the OF rilE ALUIENTARY CANAL. Here, as in Birds, the Viscera of the Abdomen are in the same Cavity with those of the Thorax; of course, the Peritoneum and Pleura are blended together. The former Membrane differs from the latter in Reptiles, in being sometimes of a black colour. The Diaphragm is wanting. The Alimentary Canal is very similar to that in Birds. The Pharynx and E- sophagus are nearly of the same diameter, and are wider, in proportion to the size of the Stomach, than in the two former classes, and are rendered still wider than at first sight they appear to be, by being full of Ruga?, which vanish when the Animal swallows. The Esophagus of the Turtle is covered with long pointed Papillse, of a white colour and firm consistence, and turned towards the Stomach, as if to prevent the Food from returning. In the Lizard tribe, the Stomach is of a globular form. In the Crocodile in particular, it resembles that of the Gizzard of Gi'anivorous Birds, in the closeness of its orifices, and thickness of its substance. The Esophagus of ISerpents is of great size, as they frequently swallow Aihmals larger than themselves, and often retain them there for days or weeks, allowing them to pass to the Stomach by slow degrees. The proportional length of the Intestinal Canal, com- pared with the Bodies of Reptiles, is still less than in-The CSe OF THE ALniEXTAKYCAN^L [Part III. the former class of Animals. In some of the Turtle kind, it is about five times the length of the Animal; but in some other Reptiles, as the F?'Og, it is scarcely twice ; and in some of the Serpent tribe, as the Coluber Matrix, it is not equal to the length of the Creature. The Small Intestines are generally much contracted in their diameter, while the large are as much dilated, though sometimes the reverse, as in the Hazck's-bill Turtle. In Turtles, in Lizards, in the Frog tribe, and SnaK'Cs, there is a \'ermiforni Process, but rarely any Caecum. Almost the whole of this class have a Circu- lar Fold or Valve between the small and great Intes- tines. d'he inner part of the Canal has Plica2, varying in the different kinds, and is lined with a large quantity of Mucus. In the Tortoise, there are no Cells in the great In- testines ; but the Canal in this, and some other Ani- mals of the class, is full of Fossula?. In Lizai'ds, and in the F)'og and Toad, the Colon is cylindrical, and much larger than the small Intestines In some of the Lizards, as the Crocodile of the Nile, the Plicae of the small Intestines have a zig-zag appearance. In the Chameleon, the small Guts equal the size of the Colon ; and in the Crocodile, the Colon little e.xcceds the small Intestines. In Snakes, the small Intestines are serpentine, and nearly equal in size with the Colon. '1 hcv have longi- tudinal Plicfc, while the Colon has irrca;ular Ruixm. The Intestinal Canal, in Reptiles, terminates in a C loacn, which is nearlv of the same nature as in Birds.OF REPTILES. 28T Part IIL] The The Anus, in some, as the Tortoise, is placed undev the Tail. In others, as the and Toad, which have no Tail, it is above the extremity of the Back. There are some varieties in the situation and attach- ments of the Mesentery. In the Tortoise, it is conti- nued from the Mesocolon, and is not connected directly to the Vertebra?. In Lizards, the Mesentery and Mesocolon come off from the Vertebras. Serpents have no Mesocolon Transversum. Reptiles in general may be said to want the Omen- tum, yet many Lizards have a substance resembling it, charged with Fat; and the Fatty Lobes, attached to the Testicles and Ovaria of Fi'ogs, are considered by some as a kind of Omentum, while others think them connected with the parts of Generation, on account of the great increase of bulk at pairing-time. — migamrn — OF TLIE LIVER, PANCREAS, AND SPLEEN The Liver is present in the whol e class, and is pro- portionally larger than in Mammalia or Birds, extend- ing generally to both Hypochondriac regions. It is still less divided than in Birds. In some, it has two Lobes ; but in many, it has none. It is connected to the Body by the Peritoneum, as in Mammalia. The colour is commonly bordering upon yellow.^8H OF THE LIVEK, &c. [Pakt III. The Gall-Bladder is also })resent in all Reptiles, but is of smaller size than in the former class. In the Tortoise and Crocodile^ it is closely connected to the Liver ; in Serpents, it lies at a distance from that \iscus. As in Birds, the Trunks of the Hepatic and Cystic Ducts are separate from each other, though with several exceptions. Hcpato-cystic Ducts go commonly into the Body of the Gall-bladder, or into its Neck, or the bc*ginning of its Duct. In the Crocodile, the Hepatic Duct sends a Bi'anch to the Neck of the Gall-bladder, and unites with the Cystic near its termination in the Intestines. In the Turtle, the Hepatic Duct gives a Branch to the beginning of the Cystic, but the two Canals open separately into the Intestine. Pancheas. The form and situation of the Pancreas varies much in Reptiles. In some, as the 7'ortaise, it is triangular ; in others, as the Crocodile, lobed ; and in others, as Serpents and Frogs, it is irregular, and in the former, is situated on the right side of the Intestines. The Pancreatic Duct is single in some, and double in others. In some, as the Salamander TerresU'is, it is inserted before, and in others, as the Crocodile, after the Insertion of the Biliary Duct. Spleen.Part III.] OF REPTILES. 289 Spleen. The Figure of the Spleen is also very various. lu the Turtle, it is reniform ; in the Frog kind, spherical; in Li zards and Serpents, it is oblong. It is less intimately connected to the Stomach hei’e, than in the former classes. In some, it is fixed to the left side of that Organ, as in the Salamander ; in others, to the Anterior Arch, as in the Chameleon ; or to the beginning of the Intestines, as in the Tortoise and Ser- pents. In the Frog, it is above the Stomach, between the plies of the Mesentery: In the Crocodile, at the left portion of the Intestines. OF THE KIDNEYS. The Ki dneys here resemble those in Birds, hut differ from those in Mammalia, in wanting the Medullary Substance, Infundibulum, and Pelvis. They vary in situation and general appearance in the different orders. • In the Turtles and Lizards, they are in the Abdomen. In Lizards strictly so called, they are in the Pelvis. In the Frog tribe, they are more forwards. They are co- vered, on their inferior part only, by the Peritoneum. In Serpents, the right is considerably farther forwards than the left. In some, as the Turtles, they are collect- . VoL. rV. T edor THE KIDNEYS [Part III. ed into a mass. They are long and flat in lAzords and Frog'n. In the Serjn’nts, they form a sort of cliain. Tlie Ureters arise as in Birds/^ In the Turtle, they terminate in the beginning of the Urethra, from whence tlie Urine <>ocs into tlie Bladder. In many of the c5 * t:ard tribe, the Ureters terminate in a Bladder, which is of considerable extent, and the Urethra opens into a Cloaca. In the Crocodile, the Ureters end in a Cloaca, there being no Bladder. In Serjients, each Ureter di- lates into a ^Tsicle, which terminates in a Cloaca. In general, they end in a Bladder or a Cloaca, as the Or- gan happens to exist. The Bladder, when present, re- ceives the Urine at its Neck, or at the beginning of the Urethra, and opens directly into the Cloaca. In the Genus viz. the and Toad, there are two Bags, taken notice of by BLUME^'BACII and Cu- vier, as Urinary Bladders. Townson, however, describes the Ureters in these Animals as terminating at the posterior part of the Rec- tum, as in Birds, while the Receptacles here mentioned, and which are of great size, terminate at its anterior part; and is of opinion, that the fluid they contain is pure water, which he has frequently tasted. He thinks this fluid is absorbed from the surface of the Skin, and serves the same purpose to these Animals, as fluids do to those which take them into the Stomach bv the IMouth ; that the fluid they eject prevents an inconve- nience in leajiing. In the Turtle tribe, the bottom of the Bladder di- vides into two (’ornua. The Urethra, which is ex- tremely short, opens into the Cloaca. There are two projectionsPaht III.] 291 OF REPTILES. T 2 Ihe projections in each side, one pierced by the Ureter, the other by the Vas Deferens. From the above it appears the Bladder exists in the Turtle; in many Lizards, though not in all; in Serpents ; and that, in Frogs, there are receptacles considered by some as a Bladder, and by others as of a different nature. Near the Kidneys, but unconnected with them, are two small Bodies, considered by some as Renal Glands, by others, as connected with the Organs of Generation. Cuvier looks upon them as a kind of Omentum. In the Turtle, they are attached to the Renal Veins. In Lizards and Serpents, they are in a ply of the Perito- neum, connecting the Ova and Oviducts. In the Frog, they are fringed Bodies, like the Testes or Ovaria, and fixed to the Emulgent Veins. OF THE MALE ORGANS OF GENE- RATION. X'he situation of the Testes in the different orders of this class, is very analogous to that in Birds, being con- stantly in the Abdomen, in the vicinity of the Kidneys. In the Turtles, Lizards, and Serpents, they are variable in their form, and are fasciculated. In Frogs, they are like Granula^ closely connected. The Epididymis varies in figure and size in the diffe- rent tribes. As in Birds, the Vas Deferens, coming out from it, terminates in the Cloaca. In the Turtle,OF THE MAl.E OJlOxVNS [Taut 111. the Kpitlidyiuis is a lai’ge Canal, wliich forms the \'as Deferens, that runs in a flexuous manner to open in the Cloaca at the base of the Penis. In Lizards, the Epi- didymis is detached iVom the Testicle, and Ibrms a py- ramidal Body longer than it. From this the Vas Defe- rens goes along the edge of the Testicle, in a waving direction, to the C’loaca. In Frogs, the Vas Deferens terminates in a Papilla. The V esiculae Seminalc.s, and Prostate Gland, are not found in Ueptiles in general. The Frog', however, has two large Ve.siculaj Seminales. In the Turtle kind, there is but one Penis. In most Lizards and Serpents, there are two. In the Frog kind, the Penis is entirely wanting. In the Turtle, very large, and in the relaxed state, is retracted within the Cloaca. It is composed of two Corpora Cavernosa, and has a Groove in its upper surface, instead of an Urethra, the margins of which come so close together when the }>art is distended, as to form a complete Canal. The Penis has two Retractor jMuscIes, w'hich run I’rom the Pelvis to the under side of the Gians. ’ In Lizards and Scipents, the Penises are short and cylindrical, and commonly surrounded wdth bristles. In the I'claxed state, they commonly lie in a Pouch under the Skin of the 'Pail. They are erected by the ))ower of the Muscles of the Tail, and appear at the sides of the Cloaca. Two Retractors from the first Vertebra of the Tall return them to their natural situa- tion in the IVntch. 'Phe Rattlesnake and P/^jc;'have also double Penises; eacii of which is bifid, and beset with bristles. InPakt III.] OF REPTILES. In the Crocodile, tlie Penis is single, and has a deep Fissure tliroughout, formed principally of one Corpus Cavernosum, OiiuAXs UK ArPKEirnNsiox. Resides the common Organs of Generation, a few IMale xViiimals have Accessory Organs, by which they are enabled to fix upon the Female. Among those of the Reptile tribe are to be observed, the Spongy Ball upon the Thumb, and part of the Palm, of the Frog- kind. They are composed of hard Papilla?. By means of these, the jMale fixes firmly upon tlie Back of the Female, which he scpieezes when in season, and conti- nues there for days, or even weeks, in the water, till the Semen is ejected, which takes place in both sexes about the same time ; the two fluids mixing together w'ithout any copulation. After the Semen is emitted, the Animals separate from each other, and have no connection till the season of their amours returns t OF THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. All Keptiles have two Ovaria, two Oviducts, .and one or tw^o Uteri. T The A:5291 OF THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part HI. The Ovaria ai'e commonly more extensive in propor- tion than in I’irds. The Ova increase so much in some, as Frogs ami Toads, towards spawning-time, as to dis- tend the Abdomen. The Ovaria are fixed by two long- prolongations of the Peritoneum, to each side of the Spine, as far as the Pelvis. Along the loose edge of the Ligament are arranged the Ova, in some like rows of Beads, in others they are in clusters. 'J he Oviducts are Membranous Tubes fixed by the Peritoneum to the sides of the Spine. At their origin, they are delicate ; in their course, they become thicker, and, in general, arc much longer in proportion than in Birds. In the Turtle kind, there are two Ovaria, two Oviducts, and two Uteri. 'Ihe Oviducts are thin and delicate, the Uteri thick and fleshy. Each has an opening into the Cloaca, in which, according to Blumenbach, there is an evident Clitoris. In Sayents, the Ovaria are like rows of Beads, and are composed of yellow Vesicles. The Oviducts are much convoluted, and are connected with double exter- nal openings of Genitals, which receive the double Or- gans of the Male. Many of this class, as the Rattlesnake and Viper, are Viviparous, the Ova being hatched in the Cavity of the Oviduct. 'J he Rattlesnakes are known to couple in August, when they arc frequently observed to piake a noise w'ith their Rattle, a substance peculiar to this Ani- mal, and consisting of a number of hollow, hoimy substan- ces, each linked into the one succeeding it, the first co- vering the last ^ ertebra of the 'Fail. The Rattlesmakr producesPart III.] OF REPTILES. produces about a dozen of young, eonimdnly in the month of June. In some of these Animals, living SnaJce.s- have been taken from tlie Rellv, several inches in lengtln In Frogs, the Ova are clustered up, and extremely numerous. They are found to float loose in the Cavity of the Abdomen, previous to their getting into the Ovi- ducts or Uterine Tubes. The Oviducts, in these xVni- mals, are extremely long and convoluted, appearing- like so many Intestines. Each begins at the side of the Heart by an open orifice, and terminates by a lar^e di- latation or Uterus, which ends in a Cloaca, T 'h PARTPART IV. OF FISHES. OF THE BOXES. P isiiES have in general a Spine, extending from the Cranium to the Tail Fins, and have the Fins at the un- der part of the Belly articulated with Bones peculiar to them. The Bones of the Cranii(m are firmly united together by indistinct Sutures. In Osseous Fishes, the Bones are very numerous; but in several of the Cartilaginous, as the Skate, the (hnnium is chiefly in one continued piece. In general, the Cranium bears a small propor- tion to the rest of the Head, but is large ■when com- pared with the size of the Brain it incloses. It is not marked in the inside by the Brain, not being moulded ' upon it as in IMammalia. '^I'he Cranium of Osseous F'ishes is broad between the liars, these Organs being contained in the same com- mon Cavity with the Brain. In Cartilaginous Fishes, the Ears are separated by a distinct Septum. Fishes, as Birds, have a partition between the Eyes, which has been compared to a Vomer ; and this is generally Mem- branous, though in some Osseous. In Fishes of the Cartilaginous kind, the Under Jaze differs from that in the Osseous, in not beine' articulatedOP FISHES. m Part IV.] articulated witli the Cranium, but through the me- dium of the Bone, analogous to the Os Quadratum in Birds. In each side of the Cranium of Osseous Fishes, as in Birds, there is a great moveable Bone, which supports the Palatine Ai-ches and the Lower Jaw. In the SqxmliisoY kind, the two Jaws are very move- able. Each is composed of a pair of Cartilages, joined at the fore part. The Upper has two Condyles, by which it is articulated with the Lower Jaw. It has also two small Inter-articular Cartilages. Nearly the same structure is found in the Sturgeon. The Teeth of Fishes vary in form, number, and .si- tuation, and, strictly speaking, are a set of hard pro- minent Bodies, placed in some part of the Mouth, or Throat, merely for grasping their prey, and preventing it from escaping, their Food not requiring manduca- tion. Some Species of Spams have Front Teeth, .simple, and with Fangs fixed in the Alveoli, almost si- milar to those in the Human Body. In general, simple Teeth, with Fangs in the Alveoli, are a continuation of the Alveoli, but differing from them in their structure, and they are covered with Ena- mel, as in Mammalia. In some, as the Squalus, the Teeth arc also siinple, but joined only to the Gums, and grow in the manner of Epij)hyses. In some, the Teeth are conical and blunt; in others, flat and round, or simply round ; or some have them sharp, and in the form of wedges. In the Shark, the Teeth are very numerous, but without Fangs, and arc placed in rows, 'i he front row only is perpendicular, and exposed; the rest arc small-[Part IV. OF THE BONES er, and turned back, and covered by the Gums, but come forward Avlien any of the front row are lost, so as to supply their place. The situation of the Teeth is very variable. They are placed in the Jaws,—or in the Palate,—or in the hack part of the Septum Narium,—or in the Bone which supports the Tongue,—or in that which sujiports the Branchiae,—or at the beginning of the Esophagus ; and named, from their situation, Mandibular, Pala- tine, &c. Some, asthe<S'fl///?o7i and P'lke, have Teeth in all parts of their Mouth, The Squalus Pristis, or Saw-fish, has Teeth in both sides of the sword-shaped Bone in front of ' the Head. In some, the d'eeth are only wanting in cer- tain parts of the Mouth. The Perch has them in every part of the Mouth, excepting the Tongue. The Stur- geon has no Teeth. The number of the Vertebra: is also very variable in this class. In Osseous Fishes the Vei'tebra.* of the Neck ai'e wanting, or there arc not more than three or four. In the Slade kind, they are united into one piece. The Vertebrfe of the rest of the Spine varies extremely, being from about 20 to upwards of 100. Some Sharks have above 200. In some, they are cylindrical; in others, angular ; in others, flattened. They are articulated by their Bodies, having no oblique Processes. The Bodies of the Vertebra; arc hollowed out into conical cups, containing a glairy matter. I'he edges of the cups are joined to those of the contiguous Vertebra* through the whole length of the Spine, by Cartilages composed of concentric Fibres. The last Vertebra is. generallyPart IV.] OF FISHES. 299 generally triangular and flat, and lies in a vertical direc- tion, corresponding with the Fin of the Tail. Of the Spinous Processes, one set is placed above, and another below the Bodies of the Vertebras. Be- tween the Bodies of the Vertebras and Roots of the Superior Spinous Processes, is the Canal for the Spinal IMarrow ; while there is frequently a passage between the Bodies and Inferior Spinous Processes for the great Blood-vessels. The Vertebrae are connected to the Head, in Osseous Fishes, by a single Condyle under the Foramen Occi- pitis, while, in the Cartilaginous kind, there are two T ubercles. Fishes have no proper Thorax, -the Abdominal Vis- cera occupying the cavity of the Trunk, which is form- ed by the Spine and the Ribs where they exist, for few of the individuals of the class possess a Sternum. The number and magnitude of the Ribs vary much ' here. In some, the size is considerable; in others, as the Herring, they are like small bristles; in many, they are forked through the greater part of their length ; in some, double throughout. In most Fishes, the Ribs are articulated with the Bodies of the Vertebra.'; in some, they are only fixed to the Transverse Processes. The Anterior ExiremUies of Fishes are their Pectoral Fins, composed, as kins arc in general, of Osseous Rays, and each of these of several articulations, all of Avhich arc joined by a common Membrane. They arc generally fixed to a Bony substance, which is the only thing analogous to the Scapula, and which is articulated with the upper and back part of the Cranium. In the Skate;X)0 OF THE BONES [Part IV. Skate kind, they are fixed to the \'ertebrae, and give to these Animals a rliomboldal form. In Osseous Fishes, the Pectoral Fins form an angle with the Body, and move horizontally backwards and forwards; but in the liaja^ Squalus, ke. they are in the same horizontal plane with the Body, and move less or more in a vertical di- rection. The Abdominal Fins are connected to Bones, wbich may be compared to the Ossa Innbminata, as the Pec- I toral are to the Scapula.*. Besides the Bones mentioned above, some Fisbes possess Bones which are placed among the Muscles, and have the name of Ossicula Miisculorum Aiitedi. , OF THE MUSCLES. 1 HE Muscles of Fishes are distinguished from those of the Animals of the former classes, by receiving less Blood, of course being paler in their colour, and by being more uniformly disposed into Layers, and, in ge- neral, by wanting '^Fendons. In Osseous Fisbes, the greater part of the iMuscles are placed upon the lateral parts of the Body, by which they enable the Animal to move readily to either side. The sjjaces between the Bibs are occupied by IMuscles somewhat kFaux IV.] OF FISHES. 301 somewhat similar to the Intercostals ; hut the Ribs are also affected by the large lateral Muscles of the Body, which are likewise fixed to them. In the greater number of Fishes there are no IMuscles peculiar to the motions of the Head, this being done chiefly by the Lateral Muscles of the Body. 1 he Fins on the under part of the Body, are moved in various directions by sm.all Muscles peculiar to them- selves. Those in the Back have IMuscles in pairs, plac- ed before and behind the Fins; one pair passing from the nape of the Neck to the Fin, another lying between the Fin and the Tail. Where there are two Dorsal Fins, there is no additional pair of Muscles placed be- tween them. In the Raja, there are Muscles for moving the Head upon the Body, and others by which the Snout is mov- ed upon the Head. The Skate has two thick beds of Muscles on the Body, one placed above, and another below ; and these are formed into numerous Fasciculi, which, like the Cartilaginous parts of the Fins, have a radiated appearance. OF IHE INTEGUMENTS. HK Integuments here hare the same number of Layers as in the former class of Animals. The Cuticle is strong and thick, and is covered l)y the Scales, which arc laid onI OF THE INTEGUMENTS [Part IV. SOU on cadi otlier like tiles on a liouse, and exist less or more in I'ishes in general. The Scales are found to cover the Cuticle, as the Hair, &c. does in other Ani- mals, but are not, like these substances, frequently changed ; instead of which, they are found to be perma- nent, and are said to increase in number as the Ani- mal becomes older. The Cuiis is very thick and strong in the Sturgeon, and in some of the Skate and Shark kind ; but in Fishes with large Scales, as the Cijprinus and Sparus, it is of a thin and delicate texture. In certain Vertebral Fishes, as the Ccci'p, there are some Muscular Fibres attached to the Skin of the Back, forming a kind Fannicuhoi Carnosus. In Fishes, as well as in other cold-blooded Animals, there is no Fat under the skin. In some, as the SaU man, there is an oily fluid ; in others, as the Moon-Jish, a substance of great thickness, like Lard, under the Skin, but it is found to be of the nature of Albumen. The Integuments of Fishes have no vessels carrying red Blood, and but very small Nerves; of course, are well fitted for protecting the tender parts within. Upon the surhicc of Fishes, ]iarticularly in such as live in salt vater, there are Ducts, varying in number according to the kind, which pour out a Mucus to de- fend the Skin from the penetrating effects of the water. Those destitute of distinct scales, as the Skate tribe, have this Mucus in greatest abundance. In the Raja and Squnlas, a set of transparent Ducts originate from a point on each side of the Animal, di- rectly over the angle of the Jaw, and a little to the outer and tsoa OF FISHES. Part IV.], and back part of the Eye. From tins, as a centre, the Ducts issue in Fasciculi, and extend in Radii of diffe- rent lengths, between the Skin and the Muscles. They are shut at their origin, have no visible Glands, nor have they any evident communication with each other. Each has an opening of considerable size upon the surface of the Body, where they pour out clear slime in large quantities, to defend the Skin, which, in Animals of this kind, is less scaly than in others. Upon the beginning of these Canals, where they issue from a centre, a large Nerve, the third Branch of the fifth pair, is dispersed in radiated Branches, which ])ecome suddenly transparent, and vanish in the Coats of the Ducts. Upon the under surface of these same kind of Fishes, there are also Mucous Ducts, of a similar nature with the former, but more irregular in their course. Besides the Ducts mentioned above, there are others, much larger, upon the inferior or ventral surface, which like- wise discharge Mucus for the defence of the Skin. They are situated at the sides of the Mouth, and upon the La- teral Fins, and take a serpentine direction. In the Torpedo, the Mucous Ducts are less in number than in the Skate, &c. and they only receive part of the numerous Filaments of Nerves which go to the former Ducts, the larger portion being spent upon the Electric Organ of this Animal. In Osseous Fishes, as the Cod, Haddock, he. the Mucus comes from a Llnea Laterali.s, or Duct on each side off the Body and Head, and extending as far backOF J'lIE BRAIN, &c. [Part IV. /504. in as the Tail Fin. Upon the Head, tlie Duct divides into Branches, which spread out upon the two Jaws., From tliis Duct a number of short Tubes arise, and terminate by openings upon the surface of the Skin. Cuvier describes tliese Ducts as arising from two Glands placed on the Head, above each Orbit. OF THE BRAIN, "Fhe appearance of the Brain differs much in the dif- ferent Species. It is always remarkably small in pro- portion to the size of the Body, though the Nerves are as large, when compared with the parts on which they are distributed, as in the former classes. The Brain here never fills the Cranium, there being always a large space occupied by a salt fluid, contained in loose Cellular substance, which surrounds the Brain, and supplies the place of the Tunica Arachnoidea. The Brain, in Fishes, somewhat resembles that in Birds, only the posterior bear a greater proportion to the anterior parts, and there is often a Tubercle behind, forming a kind of second Cerebellum, and which is pe- culiar to Fislies. The Brain, in general, is divided into Cerebrum and Cerebellum, and these liave their Ventricles somewhat as in Mammalia. The Lobes are more numerous thanOF FISHES. 30o Part IV.] V The VoL. IV. in the former class, but there is great variety in different Fishes. The Cerebrum constantly forms two Lobes or Hemi- spheres, which are laid by the sides of each other, and are smooth and without convolutions. The Cerebellum is in one Lobe, and larger in proportion than the Hemi- spheres, often surpassing them in size. Each of the Hemispheres has a Ventricle, with a kind of Corpus Striatum ; and there is also something like a Third and Fourth Ventricle, as in Mammalia. The Thalami Optici are constantly situated, as in Birds, under the Hemispheres, and, as in them also, each contains a Ventricle. There are no distinct Tubercula Quadrigemina, unless Tubercles situated under the Hemispheres, in some Fishes, are taken for such. The Nerves, as already noticed, do not bear proportion to the size of the Brain, but to that of the parts to which they are destined. They differ^ from the Nerves of the Animals of the former classes, in having no Ganglia, though in the Genera Cy^pr’inus and Gadus, something like Ganglia are found in the Olfactory Nerves. In certain Fishes of the Genus Gadus, as Cod, Had- dock, and Whiting, there are numerous small roundish Bodies, contained in little Vesicles on the surface of the Brain, on the anterior extremity of the Spinal Mar- row, and on some of the principal Nerves, and within the Skin covering the Fins. These are described by Dr Monro in his Work on Fishes, but their use is un- known.OP THE BRAIN, &c. [Past IV. 30tl In The Olfactory Nerves^ in certain Fishes, as the Skate and Shark, are so large at their origin, as by some to have been considered the proper Brain, or at least its An- terior Lobes. At their roots, each forms a large Bulb, from which the Nerve passes towards the Nares. In some, the Nerve is at first slender, and afterwards forms a large Ganglion; in others, it is thick and short, and surrounded with Cortical Substance. It terminates by a Ganglion, which is separated from the Nostril by a Cribriform Membrane, which gives passage to the Nerves into the Nose. In Osseous Fishes, the Olfactory Nerves are long and slender, in some surrounded by Cartilage, in others by IMembrane. 1 he Genera Cyprinus and Gadiis have, at the Nasal extremity of the Nerve, a spherical Ganglion, composed in part of Cineritious Substance. The Optic Nerves, in the generality of Fishes, par- ticularly in those of the Osseous kind, cross each other without being incorporated. Ihey are attached merely by Cellular Substance, the Right Nerve going to the Left Eye, and the Left Nerve to the Right Eye. In some Fishes, they are Fibrous ; in others, they have a laminated or plaited appearance. The Third and Fourth Pairs are dispersed nearly as in the former classes of Animals. The Fifth comes off from Tubercles behind the Cerebellum, which, in the Raja, are remarkable for their great size. Each di- vides into three Branches, as well as in the Human Body ; and these go to the outer part of the Nose, to tlie sides of the Mouth, and to the Face in general.307 OF FISHES. Fart IV.] In the Skate, the third Branch vanishes suddenly upon the Mucous Ducts which issue, as from a centre, at the outer and back part of the Eye. The Sixth Pair is distri- buted as in other red-blooded Animals, Of the Seventh Pair, the Portio Dura is large in Cartilaginous Fishes, and comes off from the Brain quite distinct from the Au- ditory Nerve. The Portio Mollis lies so near the Fifth Pair, as to appear to be a Branch of that Nerve. In Car- tilaginous Fishes, as the Skate, it passes into the Ear by a single Foramen; in the Osseous kind, as the Cod, where the Ear is in the same Cavity with the Brain, the Nerve is dispersed directly upon that Organ. The Eighth Pair is remarkable on account of its great size, and its distribution. It is divided into three portions, one of which runs directly to tlie Branchiae. The se- cond goes to the Muscles of the Tongue, and to the E- sophagus. The third is a large Nerve, which extends under the'Skin as far as the Tail Fin, upon which it terminates. The Ninth Pair appears to be wanting. The Great Sympathetic Nerve is also found here, but extremely slender. It unites with the Vertebral Nerves, but this, like the other Nerves of Fishes, has no visible Ganglia, excepting those in the Olfactory Pair in certain Fishes, as the Gadus, he. The Spinal Marrow, in the Animals of this class, is re- markable for its great size when compared with the Brain. The Cervical Nerves are few in number, and in some Animals there are none, the Vertebras of the Neck, in such Fishes, being wanting. When present, they are chiefly dispersed about the Throat and Pectoral P7n. IT 2 There308 OF THE BRAIN, kc. [Part IV. riiere is no Diaj)hragniatic Nei ve, though one of the first Vertebral Nerves is spent upon the partition between the Cavity of the Branchiee and that of tlie Abdomen. The Dorsal and Lumbar Nerves arc all distributed in the Intercostal spaces. The Sacral and Caudal Nerves are not very distinct; they are lost in the posterior part of the Body and the Tail Fin. •/ Besides the Nerves mentioned above, it is here thought proper to take notice of those which belong, in certain Filectrical Fishes, to that curious apparatus which performs the office of a Leyden Jar, or Electrical Battery. Tlicj^nya Torpedo, Gfjmnotns Elcctria^s, and Silurus Electricus, are the only Fishes in which Electri- cal Organs have been discovered ; though one Species of the Tetraodon, and one of the Trichmrus, possess the same electric property. In the three first-named Ani- mals, the Electi-ic Organ consists of Aponeurotic Cells, filled with a fluid like the Glaire of an Egg. Upon this substance large Nerves arc distributed ; but the firoportional size and the structure of the Cells, the ori- gin, number, and relative' magnitude of the Nerves, vary in the three different Species. The Electrical Organ of the Torpedo bears a large proportion to the Body of the Animal, and is situated between the Head, the Branchia?, and ffreat Cartilairc of the Pectoral Fin in each side; or in that part from whence the Mucous Ducts issue as from a centre, on the Back of the STicitc. It extends in a perpendicular direction from the Dorsal to the Abdominal Skin. When the Integuments arc raised, the Organ appears, consistingPart IV.] OF FISHES. 309 consisting of some hundred pentagonal or hexagonal co- lumns, closely compacted, and giving somewhat the appearance of a Honeycomb. The Columns are form- ed of transparent Laminje, and are connected together by transverse Tendinous Fibres. They are divided by a great number of thin partitions placed over each other, but leaving small spaces between them, which are full of a glairy liquor. Minute Blood-vessels arc dispersed upon this Organ. Its Nerves are of extra- ordinary size, and are furnished by four principal Branches. The first is the Inferior Maxillary, or third portion of the Fifth Pair, and corresponds with that which, in the Back of the Skate, sends a very large Nerve to the origin ©f the Mucous Ducts. The other Nerves are from the Eighth Pair, and come to the E- lectrical Organ after suppling the Gills. I he whole of this remarkable substance is found to correspond in its effects with those of an Electrical Ma- chine. '1 he upper and under surfaces of the Animal are in the plus and minus states of Electricity, and the shock is given at the will of the Creature; but differs from that coming from an Electrical Apparatus, in pro- ducing neither light nor sound. The Electrical Organ, in the Gijmnotus, is more de- veloj:)ed than that of the Torpedo. It composes a great part of the thickness of the very large Tail, and ex- tends from within a little distance of the Head to the posterior extremity of the Animal. It is divided into four portions, called by IMr Hunter, Great and Small Organs. The Great Organs are placed above the Small TJ 3 at<310 OF THE BRAIN, &c. [Paet IV. at each side of the Tail, of which they form about two inferior thirds of the thickness, the Caudal Muscles composing the principal parts of the remaining third. Each of the Columns is intercepted by a great number of Lamina?, forming the whole into so many Cells, which are here of a rhomboidal form. They receive their principal Nerves from the Spinal Marrow ; some of less consideration coming from the Sympathetic Fair. Of the Silurus, the Organ covers the greater part of the Body. It begins at the Head, and extends to near the Tail, and forms a thick Stratum anteriorly, but be- comes thinner as it approaches the Caudal extremity. It receives its Nerves from those portions of the Eighth Pair which extend, in other Fishes, along the lateral parts of the Body ; but these are much smaller in proportion than in the Torpedo. Of' THE EYE, The Eye of the Animals of this class is proportionally larger than in the two former, that of the Cod greatly exceeding the size of the Human Eye. In Fishes, as in the Cetacea^ while the posterior part of the Ball is convex, the anterior is quite flat, the water in vliicli they live refracting the rays of light, anu311 OF FISHES. Fart IV.] and supplying the place of the convexity of this part of the Eye. In some Fishes, as the Skate and Shark tribe, the Eye rests upon a stalk of ('artilage, or expands behind into a kind of Tubercle, which allows the INIuscles to act with more advantage upon it. In other Fishes, it rests upon Gelatinous Matter in Ibrm of a Cone, contained in loose Cellular Substance. Fishes are destitute of Eye-lids ; but, to defend this Organ from injury, the Tunica Adnata is stronger than in Mammalia and Birds, and passes immediately over it without forming any doubling. It may be separated readily from the Tunica Sclerotica and the Cornea. Upon the inner or back part of the Cornea is a delicate \ Membrane, termed Tunica Aqitca, which incloses the Aqueous Humour at tlie fore part of the Eye; tliis ■can also be easily separated. In some, as the Eel^ the Tunica Adnata allows the Cornea to move behind it, in the manner it does in Serpents^ &:c. The Cornea is not so firmly connected to the Sclero- tic as in Mammalia ; it is easily separated from the Sclerotis, which appears then open at the fore part of the Iris. Most Osseous Fl.shes, as the Salmon, Mackerel, &c. have, at each corner of the Orbit, a Vertical Veil, which covers a small part of the Eye. The Tunica Sclerotica is Cartilaginous, semi-trans- parent, and lined with a delicate Membrane, which is commonly of a black colour. Pfishes have no Tapetum on the Choroid Coat, the U 4 innerOF THE EYE [Part IV. 312 inner Layer of which, or Tunica Ruyschiana, is black, but in llie Skate, Shark, &c. the bottom of the Eye is of a silver colour, from the Choroid Coat appearing through its inner lining, which is here transparent. Tlie outer Layer of the Choroides, or proper Cho- roid Coat, is white or argent, and Vascular. From the inner Layer, a Vascular Funnel-shaped Membrane arises, tlie Cawpanula of Haller, which goes to the Lens, and has been considered as analogous to the Mar- supium of Birds. Between the twq Layers of the Choroid Coat, in the Osseous Fishes, but not in the Skate and Shark kind, there is a Body, termed Corpus Glandulosum, or Glan- dula Choroidea, of a brilliant red colour. It is in form of a Horse-shoe, or, in some, approaches to a circle. It is considered either as IMusculai-, and serving to make the Eye accommodate itself to objects at different dis- tances, or Glandular, and secreting some of the Hu- mours. d'he Corpus Ciliare is indistinct, and Ciliary Pro- cesses are generally wanting in Fishes. The Iris is intimately connected with the Choroid Coat, and possesses brilliant colours in different Fishes. In the Skate, the upper part of the Iris has a palmated - Process or Curtain, termed Operculum Pupillare, which the Animal occasionally lets down to cover the Pupil. Of the Humours of the Eye, the Aqueous is so small in quantity, as to be seen with difficulty, the deficiency being supplied by a spherical Lens, and the denser ele- ment in which the Animal lives. The Lens is, besides, observed to be not only rounder, but also more dense / ■' thaiiPart IV.] OF FISHES. 81S than in Land Animals, the more completely to refract the rays of light coming from the water. It is remark- ably large in most Fishes, but the Vitreous Humour is proportionally small. The Optic Nerves, in Osseous Fishes, cross each other without any intermixture of Medullary Sub- stance, and go to the opposite Eyes. The crossing is less apparent in the Cartilaginous kind. In the Skate, the Right Nerve passes through an opening in the Left. In general, the Body of the Nerve is Fibrous, as in other Animals; but in some, as the Steord-fish, it is formed of Layers put together like a Fan, and inclosed in the Dura Mater. In many Fishes, as the Raja and Squalus, the Nerve, getting into the Eye, forms, as in Reptiles, a small Tu- bercle, from the edges of which the Retina grows; but in others, as the Salmon, Herring, &c. the Nerve, as in Birds, after perforating the Choroid Coat, forms two white lines, which give origin to the Retina. The Retina has a peculiar appearance in Fishes, be- ing formed of two Layers, the external of which is Me- dullary, and the internal Fibrous. The Muscles, in this class of Animals, as in the for- mer, are six in number, four straight, and two oblique; but both of the latter come from tb.e anterior’and under side of the Orbit. One is inserted at the under, the other at the upper part of the Eye, without the inter- vention of a Pulley, as in jMammalia. OFOF THE EAR (Part IV. OF THE EAR. T'he Organ of Hearing., in Fishes, is as distinct as in other Animals, and much greater in proportion than in Mammalia or Birds. Partaking of the growth of all the other parts, it increases in size, in proportion to the age and bulk of the Animal. The different parts of the Ear, in this class, are more rcadilj traced than in the former, not only on account of the size, but also the looseness and softness of the parts. The Ears are divided into two kinds, according as the Fishes are Cartilaginous or Osseous, the former possessing certain parts which are not found in the latter. Of the Cartilaginous Fishes, a large Skate is here taken as an example. A little before the joining of the Head and Spine, there are two Foramina, placed obliquely, and at a little distance from each other, capable of admitting a large Hog’s bristle, which are the Mouths of the External Auditory Passages. 'I hese are detected by pressure, when a small quantity of milky-like liquor is found to issue from them. Each Foramen leads to a winding Canal, or a kind of Concha, almost of a circular form, lying under the Skin, and containing some chalky fluid. The bottom of this is of a Funnel shape, and ends in315 Fart IV.] OF FISHES. in a narrow passage, or Meatus Auclitorius Externus, which pierces the Cranium. This goes directly to a Sac belonging to the Labyrinth or Internal Ear, there being no Membrana Tynipani in Fishes. The Labyrinth is situated at the back and outer part of the Brain-case, a little behind the Eye, and is found by cutting almost horizontally, but a little downwards and outwards, through the substance of the Cranium ; the Animal being supposed to be placed in tlie prone situation. Between the Labyrinth and Bi’ain-case, there is a distinct partition, which communicates only by the Meatus Auditorius and the passages for the Nerves. The Internal Ear consists of a Membranous Laby- rintli, contained in a Cartilaginous one, hollowed out in the substance of the Cranium. The Cartilaginous Labyrinth somewhat resembles the Membranous in form, and is composed of an An- trum and three semicircular, or rather circular Canals, all of which are lined with a Perichondrium; but the Cartilaginous parts greatly exceed the Membranous in size. At the inner side of this Cavity are tlie passages for the Nerves ; at the outer is a kind of’ Fenestra Ovalis, which is shut only by a Membrane covered by the Skin. The Membranous Labyrinth is formed of a large triangular Sac, slanting obliquely outwards and down- wards, and is analogous to the Sacculus \ estibuli in Mammalia. It has also three semicircular C anals, in each of which there is an Auipulla, more conspicuous than in most other Animals. TheOF THE EAR J?l(5 [Pabt IV. Tlie Sac concains a transparent viscid fluid, and has A soft starchy or chalky-like substance placed in its bot- tom, the whole apparatus supplying the place of a VeSr tible and Cochlea. Thei'e is no Tympanum nor Eustachian Tube in this class of Animals. At the anterior part of this Sac, there is a smaller one, compared to the Cochlea of Birds, and behind, there is another still smaller, each communicating with the large Sac, and filled with the same kind of glairy fluid and chalky substance. The ^Membranous semicircular Canals are something similar, in their texture and transparency, to the Capsule of the Crystalline Lens in Mammalia, and are filled with the same kind of glairy liquor as that found ^ in the Sacs, but do not contain any of the Cretaceous matter. One of the Canals pas.ses downwards and outwards, another outwards and backwards, and both approach to a vertical situation. The third is placed between the other two, and runs nearly in a horizontal direction. The anterior and middle Canals join into a common one, which communicates with the' anterior small Sac by a short tube. * The posterior Canal opens into the large Sac by a Duct of considerable size, but has no direct communication with the other two Canals. The Membranous Labyrinth is susjicnded in the Cartilaginous one by Ves.sels and Nerves, and by Cellu- lar substance containing a watery fluid. Upon the Sacs and Ampullae of the Canals, large Nerves arc dispersed, which belong to Trunks analo- gousOF FISHES. Part IV.] 317 gous to the Fifth, and Portio Mollis of the Seventh Pair, but‘chiefly to the latter. When the Animal is laid in the supine situation, and the Cartilage, which, in the natural state, lies under the Ear, is properly separated. Branches of the Portio Mollis are observed to form Penicilli upon the Ampullse, and an intricate Plexus on the Vestible, and small Sacs projecting from it, which are fully exhibited in Dr Monho’s Work on the Eye and Ear. In Osseous Fishes^ the Organ of Hearing has a gene- ral similarity with that of the former kind, but differs in several particulars. No Meatus Externus has been found. The Internal Ear is inclosed in the same common Cavity with the Brain; the Bones at the sides of the Brain oiily form- ing some Processes, to which the Labyrinth is connect- ed by Cellular Substance and Vessels, and by some Os- seous and Cartilaginous bridles. In some parts, also. Membranes intervene, but there is no distinct partition. There is a Sac or Vestible of considerable size, simple in some, divided in others, containing a viscid fluid, and one, two, or three Cretaceous stones, the number varying according to the kind of Animal. The stones have a particular figure, are of various sizes, and are white and hard like Porcelain. They are suspended in the Pulpy fluid by a beautiful Plexus of Nerves, and have been regarded by some as serving the same purpose with the Ossicula Auditus in Mam- malia. There are here, also, semicircvdar or Circular Canals, the outer Osseous, the inner Membranous; and, as in CartilaginousIn <318 OF THE EAU [Part IV. Cartilaginous Fishes, the outer set greatly exceed the inner in size. The length of the Osseous Canals varies in different Fishes ; part of them forms a sort of Pulley, over which the INlembranous Canals pass. The Membranous Canals vary also in length, but have in general the same kind of communication with the Vestible, and with each other, and form the same kind of Ampullae, as in Fishes of the Cartilaginous kind. Nerves corresponding with those in the Skate are also dispersed upon the Sac and Ampullae ; but the Nerves pass to the Labyrinth without perforating the Bones. OF THE NOSE. 1 HE Organ of Smelling is extensive in Fishes, though it has no connection with the Organs of Bespiration ; and is supposed to be acute, being a principal means by which they are enabled to search for their Food. The Nostrils, in Osseous Fishes, are generally divid- ed by a cross Membrane, wdiich gives the appearance of being double on each side. Some Muscular Fibres are found about the Nostrils, which admit of a small degree of dilatation or contraction occasionally, but the motion is not very evident.Part IV.] 313 OF FISHES. In the Raja, Squahis, &c. among the Cartilaginous kind, the Nostrils communicate with the Mouth by a Chink of considerable magnitude. In Osseous Fishes, instead of turbinated Bones, there are numerous Membranous Laminae, running in a ra- diated manner from a Tubercle at the bottom of the Nose ; but in the Raja, Squalus, and, isevenrl others, there is an elegant plaited Membrane, in place of Ossa Spongiosa. This is disposed in crescentic folds, some- what in a parallel direction to each other, and placed on each side of a principal Lamina, which extenda from one end of the Nostril to the other. There is no Foramen Incisivum in Fishes, there be- ing, strictly speaking, no Nasal Cavity here. Upon the Laminae above mentioned in the Nose, the Branches of the Olfactory Nerves are expanded, sup- plying the whole internal surface of that Cavity, and there forming a Retina, as in the Eye; but the Fila- ments are more distinct. OF THE TONGUE. The Tongue, in Fishes, is in general of such a linn Cartilaginous nature, that some have doubted how far it is to be considered as an Organ of Taste. 'J he Skin covering it is commonly very thick, like that of the rest of the Mouth. It exhibits no distinct Pa-OF THE TONGUE [Part IV. 320 pillae, but, In many Fishes, is so garnished with a kind of Teeth, as to appear to render the surface almost in- sensible. It is generally supported, as in Birds, by an Os Lin- guale, or a Cartilage which also supports the Branchiae. This, in some, is small; in the Conger, it runs the whole length of the Tongue. The Raja, Sgnalus, and iMmpreij, can scarcely be said to have a Tongue, the parts being quite smooth and even. Salivary Glands.—Fishes in general are destitute of Salivary Glands. In the Carp, there is an irritable Glandular Body, situated on the Palate, and consider- ed by some Authors as supplying the want of these; by others, it is looked upon as a sort of Tongue. In the Raja and Squalus, there is a mass of small Granu- lous Glands upon the Membrane of the Palate, which have been considered as analogous to the Mucous Glands in other Animals. OF THE HEART AND BLOOD- VESSELS. The Heart of Fishes is situated in a Cavity between the posterior parts of the right and left sets of Gills, and is small in proportion to the Body of the Ani- mal. The Pericardium, in many Fishes, is merely the lining of the Thoracic Cavity. The Heart, as in Frons..Part IY.] 3S1 OF FISHES. FrogSf consists of a single Auricle and a Ventricle, which correspond with the right side of the Heart of warm-blooded Animals. The Auricle is commonlv larger than the Ventricle, but thinner in its walls. It , receives the Blood from the Body, and sends it to the Ventricle^ in the Mouth of which there are Valves, which vary in number in different Fishes. The Ventricle is sometimes round, at other times triangular, but more frequently of a tetragonal form. Its sides are generally thick, and have Columnje Carneas running in different directions. It opens first into a Bulh or Pedicle, which is very conspicuous in the Cod and Salmon, where it is of a pyramidal form. In the Skate, it has a cylindrical appearance. In this Animal and tlie Sturgeon, there are Valves at the entry, and also at the further extre- mity -[of the Pedicle. In the Cod, Salmon, See. the Valves are only at its origin. Principal Blood-vessels.—The distribution of the Blood-vessels differs considerably from that of the Animals of the preceding classes. They have a smaller proportion of red, but a much greater number of colourless Vessels. The Branchial Artery is conti- nued from the Pedicle, and is entirely spent upon the Gills. In the Skate, it advances under the Car- tilage which unites the inferior extremities of the Branchial Arches, and soon gives off a Branch to each side, that subdivides into three others, to be dispersed upon a corresponding number of Posterior Branchia?. The Trunk afterwards proceeds till it gets opposite to the two Anterior Branchiae, and then divides into a VoL. IV. X couple32S OF THE HEART, &c. [Part IV. couple of Branches, which are distributed upon these Organs. In otlier Fishes, as the Cod, Salmon, &c. this Artery sends off' Branches in a similar manner, but only four in number in each side, corresponding with the number of the Branchiae. From the Gills the Blood returns, and is sent to all the parts of the Body by a set of Arterious Veins, or Branches, which are found to be of the same thickness and strength with those of the Branchial Artery. In the Slate tribe, these Vessels, in number equal to that of the Gills, pass back under the Cartilage of the Neck, and join their fellows of the opposite side, to form the Aorta. Before they unite, they give Branches to the Neck, Head, &c. and furnish the Coronary Arteries of the Heart. The beginning of the Aorta sends a large Artery to each of the Lateral Fins, and parts adjacent, and soon after, the Cocliac and two Mesenteries to the Chylo- poictic and Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera; then Arte- ries to the Organs of Urine and Generation, and two large Branches to the Posterior Fins. The continuation of the Aorta goes at last to the Tail, protected in a Ca- nal in the inferior part of the Vertebi'ae. In other Fishes, the Aorta is formed by only four Branches on each side, corresponding with the number ot the Gills. In some Fishes, as the Sturgeon, the Aorta is almost entirely concealed in a Canal in the Bodies of the \eriebrae. Veins.—The eins, in this class of Animals, are ex- tremely thin in their Coats. They form receptacles for the32S Part IV.] OF FISHES. X 2 In the Blood, being much larger in their course than at their termination in the Heart. At the opening of some of the Veins in the Heart, or where Branches end in some of the principal Trunks, there is a sort of Valves, which prevent the retrograde motion of the Blood. From the different parts of the Body, the Blood is re- turned to the Heart by one or two Posterior Cavas, si- tuated at the sides of the Aorta, by the Hepatic Vein, and by two Anterior Cavae, one at each side of the Breast. THE ABSORBENT VESSELS, The Mouths of the Absorbents, in Fishes, contrary to what is found in other Animals, can in some measure be seen, especially in some of the Raja, as the Skate. If a coloured fine injection be thrown into one of the principal Trunks, it passes out by numerous streams, especially on the back of the Animal. The Absorbents, in this class of Animals, are some- what flat, and have the appearance of having Joints or Valves; but no real Valves are found in any part of them, excepting at their termination in the red Veins, for an injection can be made readily to pass from the Trunks to the extreme Branches. They are also quite destitute of Conglobate Glands, and the Lacteals contain transparent Chyle.OF THE HEART, &c. [Part IV. In the SK-ate kind, tlie Absorbents are proportionally much larger, conipai’cd with their Rlood-vessels, than in the former classes. They liave frequent communications w'lth each other, and often by transverse Canals; but in place of form- ing Thoracic Ducts, they unite into Right and Left Plexus, which go to the corresponding sides of the Body. The principal Absorbents of the Chylopoietic Viscera run near the large Branches of the Coeliac and Mesen- teric Blood-vessels, and the principal Lymphatics of the Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera attend the larger Ves- sels belonging to these parts. Besides the Plexus which these form, there is one of a singular nature on the Curvature of the Stomach ; it has a Cellular or Cavernous appearance, which does not occur in any other part of the Body. Into the Visceral Plexus all the other Absorbents of the Body pass ; the I.ymphatics of the inferior parts, and of the Organs of Urine and Generation, run up to them. Those of the Trunk go inwards, and those of the Head, Heart, and Gills, form chiefly a single Trunk, which descends. From these Plexus, a Trunk in each side of the Body ends in the Subclavian Vein at the joining with the Internal Jugular, where the fluids are prevented from returning by a pair of Valves. In the Cod, Salmon, and other Osseous Fishes, there are five principal \ essels, which are more conspicuous than the rest; one runs directly along the middle of the Belly, froni the Anus to the Head, and receives the Lymphatics from the parts of the Body near it; another alongOF FISHES. 325 Part IV.] along each side of the Fish, near the great Mucous Duct, and belongs to the Body aiid Tail. One, deep-seated, belongs to the parts about the Spine and upper portion of the Head, and receives Branches from the Dorsal Fins and parts of the Back ; and a large Vessel, or Plexus of Vessels, belongs to the Gills, Mouth, Brain, and Organs of the Senses. The principal Lacteals run in the Mesentery, near the Arteries, communicating there by innumerable trans- verse Canals, but are smaller in proportion to the Blood-vessels than in the former tribe of Fishes. At the Anterior part of the Abdomen, 'the Lympha- tics of the Stomach and Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera are added to the Lacteals. . The conjoined Vessels pass to a large Reservoir at the right side of the posterior extremity of the Esophagus. FVom this Reservoii*, large Absorbents, sometimes considered as analogous to Tho- racic Ducts, go forwards, receiving, in their course, the Lymphatics of th^ Organs of Urine and Generation, and run into a large Cellular Receptacle on each side, situated chiefly between the Cartilage analogous to the Clavicle, and the undermost Gill. These Receptacles receive also the Lymph from the live principal Vessels mentioned above, and from the various other parts of the Body. The two Receptacles communicate together by cross Canals, which run principally behind the Heart and Esophagus. In the Salmon, each Receptacle sends out a Duct, which terminates in the anterior extremity of the Pos- terior Cava of that side, at the fore and outer part of the Internal Jugular Vein. X 3 AtOF THE ABSORBENTS 32G [Part IV. At tlie termination of the Ducts there are doubled Membranes, answering the purpose of Valves. In the Cod, the Receptacles contain the Muscles of the Gills, their Nerves, and tlie Cornua Anteriora of the Air Vesicles. OF THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. IxsTEAD of Lungs, Fishes are furnished with Bran- chiaj, or Gills, or a kind of inverted Lungs, placed behind the Head, and communicating with the Throat. There are, in most Fishes, four Gills in each side, resting on an equal number of arched portions of Car- tilage or Bone, connected to the Os Hyoides; and these are fixed to the Head, or to the first ^'ertebra?. / Each of the Gills consists of two ranges of Cartila- ginous Laminae, and are joined together for two-thirds of their inner edge. I'he Laminae issue like rays, and have the Branches of the Pulmonary Artery minutely dispersed upon them. In many Cartilaginous Fishes, as the Raja, Squalus, &c. there are five Gills on each side. In the Lavi'prey there are seven. In a small Animal, the Hippocampus, eight.. In the first set of Cartilaginous Fishes, as the Slade, 8cc. there are, on the inferior siu face of the Ani- mai, Holes equal to the number of the Gills, and on the Dorsal side, an opening behind each Eve ; but in the other kinds, there is only a single opening exter- nal! vFart IV.} OF FISHES. 3.Q“ The X4 nally from the Gills on each side, (an Apertura Bmn- chialisJ, and this is covered by a moveable Gill-flap, (an Operculum BrancJe/alisJ, which can move outwards or inwards at the will of the Animal. After the water has been received by the Mouth, from this it is sent to the Galls, which expand, by the action of Muscles peculiar to them, in such a manner as to have it freely applied to their surface ; in conse- quence of which, Fishes derive Oxygen from water, as breathing Animals do from the Air in their Lungs. But the water does not return by the jMoutli: it’is dis- charged by the Branchial openings, in which case Fishes differ from the former class, in not expiring through the same passage by which they inspire. OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. ' • The Peritonezim in Fislies is similar to that in Mam- malia, but is sometimes of a black colour, though often argentine. In the Skate tribe, it is not a shut Sac, as in Mammalia. It communicates by two Holes exter- nally, one at each side of the Anus, by which secreted Liquors seem to escape from the cavity of the Abdomen, but a kind of Valve appears to prevent the surrounding clement from entering. The Diaphragm forms in Fishes a distinct partition between the Thorax and Ab- domen, but is purely Membranous.328 OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL [Part IV. The Alimentary Canal is generally very short in this class of Animals, and seldom makes more than one, two, or three turns. In the Pipe Fish, Lamprey, Trunk Fish, and many others, it extends almost straight from the Mouth to the Anus. In some there is very little dis- tinction into Stomach mid Intestines, but internally the difference is generally marked by the structure, by the Pylorus, and by the Valve of the Colon. In many of the class, the Esophagus is so short and wide, as scarcely to be distinguished from the Stomach ; and the Food is frequently found remaining partly in the Esophagus, till that in the Stomach is digested. In the Branchiosteg'i, there is great difference in the form and structure of the inside of the Esophagus. It is beset with strong Combs or Tufts forming a fine Net- * work, which distinguishes it from the Stomach. The Stomach of Animals of this class is generally long, and frequently found full of Fishes retaining their natural form, but quite pnlpy, digestion being consider- ed to be chiefly effected here by solution. In the Squalus kind, there are numerous large Plica; in the Stomach, running in a longitudinal, or in a transverse direction, or in both. In the Mullet, the Stomach is so rough within, that the Animal is enabled to ruminate, and hence is ranked one of the Spurious Ruminants. The Intestines, in this class, vary still more than in the former, particularly with respect to the distinction between small and groat. Sometimes the diameter of the two is the .same, though differing in structure. Sometimes the difference in size is inverted, the upper beingOF FISHES. Paht IV.] 329 In being larger than the under portion of the Canal. Sometimes the Coats of the upper are thicker than those of the under part of the Gut. In the greater number of Cartilaginous Fishes, as the Raja and SqiuiluSy where • the Canal is remarkably short, but is considerably dilated near the Stomach, the surface of the Gut internally is extended by longi- tudinal Spiral Valves. In the Sturgeon, the inner side of the Intestine forms a curious laminated Plexus and Fossulae, which are co- vered with small Glands. In the Frog-Jiah and Sea- ’ Wolf, there is a lozenged appearance. In the Turbot, the inner side of the Gut has many fringed Laminae. In the Sk’ate tribe, there is a kind of Caecum, or Ap- pendix Vermiformis, between the small and great In- testines, but none in Fishes with Osseous Skeletons. * In these the Gut is surrounded, at its origin, by small blind Appendices, or Intestinula Caeca, which open into it. They are sometimes long and slender, at other times thick and short, or simple, or ramified; the number varying from 1* to 150' and upwards, and even in different Species of the same Genus. They are found in all the Osseous Fishes, with few exceptions, as the Pike, and secrete a fluid useful in digestion. In Cartilaginous Fishes, as the Skate, in place of these, there is a Glandular Body, which bas been com- pared to the Pancreas of warm-blooded Animals. The Intestines, in Fishes strictly so called, terminate in a common Cloaca, situated near the middle of the inferior part of the Belly, or before the Anal Fin.[Part IV. OF THE AIR-BAG StiO the In the Ilaja, they tei niinate near the middle of the under and posterior part of the Body; and in this, as well as in the Squalus, it gives passage to the Faeces^ Semen, and Ova. OF THE AIR-BAG. *1^11 E Air-hag is situated between the Mesentery and the Spine, to wliich it adheres, in some through its wliole length, in others only partially. It is very variable in form in different Genera and Species. It is commonly simple, as in the Salmon and Cod; double, as in the Cyprins ; in others long, round, or oval. It consists of two Membranes, the outer of which is regarded by some as Muscular, and is covered partially by the Peritoneum. In the Cod, and also in the Sea Perch, a pair of Muscles run along the sides of the Air-bag, aiul these are assisted in thei^ action by the great Lateral Muscles upon the Bodies of Fishes. It cemtains a quantity of air, differing in its nature in different Fishes. Nitrogen, with a small por- tion of Carbonic Acid Gas, has been found in the Carp, Hydrogen in the Tench, and Oxygen in the Shark. ■ By the contraction of the Air-bag, whether by th& action of its own (’oats, or of the Lateral Muscles ofOF FISHES Part IV.] 231 the Body, the contained Air is considered to be con- densed, by which the Animal can sink ; or, by a relax- ation of these parts, the Bag can be dilated, so as to allow the Fish to rise again at pleasure. The Cavi- ty of the Air-bag is commonly uniform, but sometimes divided by Septa, as in the Silurus, or Cellular, as in the Porcupine Fish. Its sides also vary much in thick- ness and strength in different Fishes. Upon the inner side of this Sac, in the different Species of Gadus, as Cod, Haddoch, &c. a Gland is situated, which has a lobulated structure; and in the Eel, there are two, from which the contained Air is supposed to be secreted. In the Sea Perch, there is also a Gland, but, besides this, there are two others on the outside of the Bag, from which numerous Vessels containing Air arise, and unite into a Trunk that opens into the Sac. In other Fishes, no similar Organs are^ found, but Vessels are observed on the inside of the Sac, which seem to secrete Air to answer the same purpose. The Air-bag generally communicates by one, and sometimes by more Ducts of various lengths, with the middle part of the Esophagus, or of the Stomach, though more frequently with the former. Sometimes, as in the Herring, it ends in tlic bottom of the Stomach. In some, as the Sturgeon, it communicates with the Sto- mach without the intervention of a Tube; and here, as also in the Salmon, there is a Sphincter Muscle, which may act as a Valve. Where a Sphincter is not found, the Muscular P'ibres of the Organ in which the Tube332 OF THE AIR-BAG [Part IV. Tube terminates, are considered as answering the same purpose. In the Cod and Haddock there are no openings, but they have two long blind Processes, wliich terminate at the Fauces. The presence or absence of the Air-bag in Fishes is extremely variable. It exists in some Species of the same Genus, and not in others, and is considered, therefore, as an Accessory Organ of Motion, the ab- sence of which can be supplied by other means. It is more generally present, and largest, in those of a long and roundish form, as the Cod, Salmo7i, &c. and these swim with the greatest velocity; but when the Bag is punctured, or otherwise ruptured, the Animal imme- diately sinks to the bottom. Dead Fishes, on the other hand, where the Bag remains entire, float on the surface of the water, an additional quantity of Air being probably generated by putrefaction, and their Bodies thereby rendered lighter. The Air-bag is for the most part wanting in flat Fishes, as the Skate, Sole, &c. their broad surface and side Fins compensating for the want of this Organ ; but these Animals can only swim at the bottom of the water. It is wanting, also, in the Shark tribe, but the want is supplied by the great strength of the Tail. The Lavi- prey has none, and though many of the Eel tribe have a small one, these Animals are kept down by the weight of the Tail. I OFOF FISHES. Part IV.] OF THE LIVER, 6^c.. The ‘Liver, in many of the Animals of this class, is remarkably large in proportion. It lies chiefly in the left side, and in some, as the Skate and Cod, contains a great quantity of Oil, though these Animals, as well as Fishes in general, are destitute of Fat. The Colour is a whitish yellow, or rather grey. It varies in the number of its Lobes, often in different Species of the same Genus, and is extremely tender in its consistence. There is frequently, as in the Lamprey, only one Lobe ; sometimes two, as in the Sturgecm ; or two or three, as in the Cod, and here they are of great length. The Skate has three, and these extend to near the posterior extremity of the Abdomen. The situation of the Gall-Bladder is more variable in Fishes than in the Animals of the former classes. In some, it adheres to the surface of the Liver; in others, as the Skate kind, a great part of it is concealed in the substance of this Organ. In some, as the Cod, it is at a distance from it. It is wanting in several Fishes, as the Lamprey, the Lump, and certain Species of Perch. In some it is placed horizontally, in others obliquely, and in some it has a transverse direction. The Biliary Ducts, in Fishes, as in Fowls, open sepa- rately into the Intestine, and here also there are distinct Hepato-Cystic Ducts. These go commonly in succes- sion[Part IV. OF THE LIVER, &c. 334 sion into some j>art of the Gall-Bladder or its Ducts, or into both at the same time. The Hepato-Cystic Ducts are commonly short, which facilitates the motion of the Bile. In the Turbot^ Cut-Jiah^ 8zc. these Ducts are nu- merous, and go into the Gall-Bladder. In the Sole, Perch, and many others, they go in succc'ssion into the Cystic Duct. In the Skate, Salmon, &c. they go partly to the Gall-Bladder, and partly to the Cystic Duct. Pancreas.—In Osseous Fishes, there is no other Pan- creas than the Intestinula Caeca formerly described. They send two large Canals into the Intestines, and when these are wanting, as is the case in the Carp, &c. the walls of the Intestines discharge abundance of Hu- mour from Glands placed upon their inner surface. In Cartilaginous Fishes, as the Skate, there is a Pancreas resembling that in the former classes of Ani- mals. It is of an irregular form, and is placed at the origin of the Intestines. The substance appears com- pact, but Gelatinous, when cut. ‘ In the Sturgeon, the Pancreas forms a sort of medium between that in the Skate, and the Intestinula Caeca in the Osseous Fishes; it opens into the Intestine by three large Orifices, and has internally a singular reticulated appearance. Spleen.—The Spleen gradually diminishes in propor-^ tional size from Mammalm to Fishes. In the Raja and Squalus, it is placed on the Stomach ; in some it is fixed to the first part of the Intestines; in others, between the Stomach and Liver; in a great number, it is under the Air-bag, and above the other liowels : In all, it is fixed in its place by the Peritoneum. It varies consi- derablyPart IV.] OF FISHES. 535 derably in its form here, as well as in the Animals of the former class. In the Rqja^ Squalus, and Sturgeon^ it is almost triangular; in others, angular, spherical, 4:c. In some it is remarkable for its length. OF THE URINARY ORGANS. Fishes in general have Kidneys ; some have a Bladder of Urine, and others want it. The Kidneys are large in proportion, but smaUer in the Raja and Squalus than in other Fishes. In the greater number they are long, narrow, and united apparently into one mass. They adhere to the Spine from the posterior part of the Ab- domen to near the Orbits, and have the Peritoneum extended over their under surface. They are uniform in their substance, soft, and of a reddish brown colour. Renal Glands are wanting in this class. The Ureters begin by numerous roots, and run along the under surface of the Kidneys. They terminate ei- ther in a Vesica Urinaria or a Cloaca ; or unite together to form a dilatation, which supplies the place of a Blad- der of Urine. The Urinary Bladder is very variable here. It is wanting in the Raja and Squalus; in these the Ureters end in a Cloaca, as in Birds, in other Cartilaginous Fishes, it is present, but is proportionally small, and is thinH36 OF THE UlUNAUY ORGANS [Part IV. lliln in Its Coats. It is remarkable in receiving theUre- ters at its Fundus or anterior part. The Urethra is short, and commonly opens behind the Anus by an orifice, which also gives issue to the Semen in the Male, and Ova in the Female. In most Osseous Fishes, the Ureters, near their termination, form a large dilatation, which opens externally by an orifice generally behind the Anus, which also gives pas- sage to the sexual evacuations. 1 OF THE MALE ORGANS OF GE- NERATION. The Testes, in Fishes, on account of a difference of structure, are divided into two kinds, viz. 1. Those of the Raja and Squaliis in the Cartilaginous Fishes, and, 2. Those of the other part of the Cartilaginous Fishes, and all the Osseous kind. The Testes of the first kind are analogous to those in the Frog. They are flat and of great extent, are situated between the Spine and the Stomach and Intes- tines. Each is divided into a large and small portion. The first is a mass of spherical Glandular Bodies, Avhich,^ in a common-sized Skate, are nearly as large as Peas, and press against each other, being intimately con- . nectedPart IV.] OF FISHES. 337 nected together, and covered by a delicate Membrane. The other portion is formed of a uniform Glandular Substance, something like the soft Row or Milt of Os- seous Fishes. The Epididy mis^ here, is also of great size, and formed of a large Canal making innumerable convolu- tions. From this goes out a Vas Deferens, which runs along the edge of the corresponding Kidney in a zig-zag manner; increasing in size till it terminates in a Vesi- cula Seminalis near the Anus. At the outer side of the Vesicula Seminalis, is a Bag filled with a greenish matter, which is discharged into the Sac for receiving the Semen. By some Authors, this Bag is considered as a Vesicula Seminalis ; by Dr Monro, as supplying the place of a Prostate Gland. In some other Cartilaginous Fishes, as the Torpedo^ the V^as Deferens and the Vesicula open into the Cloaca by means of a Papilla, the Penis being absent here, as well as in all the other Animals of the Class. In the other kind, or Roe Fishes, the Testes hold nearly the same situation as in the Raja and Squalus, and are large Glandulo-membranous Sacs; in some Cylindrical, in others Conical, &c. The size increases greatly at the spawning season ; at other times, they can scarcely be distinguished from the Roe. They are filled with a white Milky-like matter, the Semen, which appears to be deposited in cells. Through the middle of each Testicle passes a Vas Deferens, which unites with its fellow at the posterior part of the Abdomen, and opens by an orifice, com- VoL. IV. Y monly338 OF THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part IV. monly situated beliind the Anus. In some, as the Carp^ the Vas Deferens opens into a sort of Veslcula Seniinalis, wliicli terminates in the Cloaca. OF THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GE- NERATION. IN a part of the Cartilaginous Fishes, and in Osseous Fishes, excepting those of the \iviparous kind, the O- varia and Oviducts appear to be blended together, and the Ovai-ia seem to terminate directly upon the outer surface of the Body ; but in another part of the Card.* laginous and of the Osseous Fishes, the Ovaria and Oviducts arc distinct from each other. In tlie Raja and Squalus, there are two Ovaria and two Oviducts. The anterior extremities of the Ovi- ducts arc situated behind the Diaphragm, and united together, and also to the Spine. In the Skate, the O- viducts have one common opening at their origin. Each Duct passes backward and outward, and is of a cylindrical form, but of small diameter. Internally, it has longitudinal Plicae and Glandular Papillae, and leads to a large and thick Glandular substance, whicli is considered as secreting the Glaire of the Egg. It afterwards dilates into a large Sac, which is the Uterus, where the Egg receives its Shell. The Shell has a hornyPart IV.] 939 OF FISHES. Y 2 and horny consistence and quadrangular form, with curved Spinous corners, and is sometimes known by the name of Sea-mouse, though this term applies more properly to a small Animal, the AphrocUta. In the Shark, this sub- stance has a plaited appearance. The Uterus terminates at the sides of the Cloaca, while the Alimentary Canal ends at its under part. The Ovaria are situated at the sides of the Spine, and contain Ova of different sizes; the smallest are of a white, and the largest of a yellow colour They pass by degrees into the Oviducts, getting first the Albu- men, and then the Coraceous Shell. The Ova bear a strong resemblance to the Yolks in Birds; but Fishes of this kind hatch the Eggs in the Abdomen, and aftei*- wards bring forth the young. While the Foetal Skate lies in the Shell, upon open- ing this substance when perfectly recent, the Animal can be seen moving in the fluid in which it swims. There is likewise observed at this period, a short Tube, which conveys the Yolk to the Intestines, as in Birds. In the Shark, from 20 to 50 Foetuses have been found, laid regularly by the sides of each other, in the Cavity of the Uterus. Oviparcnis Bony Fishes.—The Female Organs of Ge- neration, in these, consist of two Bags containing the Ova, and termed the Roe. The Ova are small and ex- tremely numerous, upwards of 60,000 having been counted in a Perch weighing little more than a pound ; and in some other Fishes, more than 200,000 have been found. The Bag containing them is situated, as the Testes are in the Male, at the sides of the hpine,340 OF THE FEMALE ORGANS [Part IV. and are two delicate Membranes, which extend in the Abdomen as far as the Anus ; occupying, near spawn- ing-time, a great part of the Belly. The Ova are ge- nerally disposed in transverse layers, and connected by Blood-vessels. The common exit is behind the Anus, without the intervention of an Oviduct. In many Fishes, the Ova or Spawn of the Female is observed to be first discharged, after which the Semen is ejected from the Male, and scattered over the Spawn; the fecundation of these Animals being external. PARTPART V. OF M O L L U S C.A. The Mollusca, like other Invertebral Animals, are destitute of a real Skeleton; but many have dis- tinct Jaws, which are fixed in the Flesh, there being no Head for articulation. In the Cuttle-Fish^ there are two horny Jaws, like the Bill of a Parrot^ situated in the centre of the fore part of the Body, and serving for the trituration of the Shell-fish which the Animal devours. Surrounding the Jaws are the Tentacula, or Large Arms, which, by means of numerous cups placed upon them, enable the Animal to fix itself to surround- ing objects. Some of the individuals of this class, as the Snail, have but one Upper Jaw; others have two Lateral Jaws. The Tritonia has two Jaws, which act like the blades of Scissars; but many have none. In some, as the Whelk, &c. a Proboscis supplies the place of Jaws. In the back of the Cuttle-Fish, there is a kinil of Bone composed of Lamellae. In other Spe- cies, its appearance is difterent; but it is generally elas- tic and transparent. The Sepia Octopus wants it. The Epidermis, in this class of Animals, varies in thickness in different individuals. In Testaceous Mol- Y 3 lusca,[Part V. 34a OF MOLLUSCA. lusca, it covers the Shell on both sides, and may be readily separated from it by means of diluted acids. Most of this class produce a viscid liquor, which lubri- cates the Skin. In the Mollusca Testacea, the Shell is formed in a peculiar viscous substance, the Sacculus Calcareus of Swammerdam. The Muscles agree, in many particulars, with those of the Animals of the former class. In the Mollusca Cephalopoda, the Sac which comjjoses the Body is form- ed of a Muscular substance, divided into Layers, fitted for moulding the Animal itito various forms. Two Strong Muscles arise from each side of the Sac inter- nally, and are fixed to the Head. The Tentacula round the Mouth have Muscles, some for acting directly upon them, others proper to the Suckers placed upon these bodies. The first set enable the Animal to move the Tentacula in every direction, the second contract the cups from a flat to a hollow surface; and by forming a kind of vacuum within them, enable the Animal to fix itself firmly to surrounding objects. The Muscles of locomotion, in the Gasteropoda^ reside in the under part of their Body, which serves them at once as a sort of belly and foot. It consists of fleshy fibres running variously, by which it can contract a part or the whole of the Body at the same time, as may be readily perceived in the Slug or common Snail. In the Gasteropoda, as the Snail or Limpet, there are additional Muscles arising from the inner surface, or from the edge of the Shell, by which the Animal can protrude from, or retire into its covering. The Acephala, as the Vi/stcr, Muscle, &c. have a covering principally com-OF MOLLUSCA. I’abt V.] 343 posed of a Membrano-nuiscular substance, termed CloaJc. This, in the greater part of the Species, is covered by Shells of various forms, and furnished with complete hinges. These hinges are connected by Idgaments placed in different, parts of the Shell according to the kind, and of such an elastic nature as to have a constant tendency to open the Shell. The Cloak varies much in the dif- ferent Genera. Most frequently it is open before, as in the Oydcr^ Muscle, &c. Sometimes it is perforated at both extremities, as in the Razor-shell, &c. The Cloak of the Oyster is formed, like the Shell, of two pieces fixed next the hinge, and has a semi-transparent ap- pearance. The pieces are perforated by the Muscle which closes the Shell. The opening which receives the nourishment, and that for discharging the Faeces, are formed by the Cloak, and these are sometimes pro- longed into a Proboscis. In the Oyster Muscle, tlrere is only one of tliese openings, which is the Anus ; the nourishment entering by a slit in the Cloak. The Valves of the Shells are closed by one or two Muscles, according to the shape of the part. In the Oyster, and others of a similar form, there is only a single Muscle, but of great strength. It is situated near the centre of the Shell, and behind the Liver. It is fixed firmly to both portions of the Shell, and shuts them with great force; the elastic Ligament at the hinge acts as an antagonist, by opening the Shell. In the Muscle, Cockle, Razor-shell, &c. there are two Muscles for shutting the Shell, and they are placed near the hinge. Many Acephalous Mollusca have a locomotive power, Y 4 in1 ! ' \ 344- OF MOLLUSCA. [Part V. in consequence of a Muscular Appendix or Foot, hav- ■ing on each side a set of Fibres like Silk. This Body they can protrude or retract, so as to fix themselves to solid substances, or drag themselves along the sand, This substance is termed the Beard, and is exemplified in the Fresh-water Muscle, where it is situated under and near the fore part of the Shell. By means of the Beard, the Animal has sometimes been observed to move to the distance of some yards in a few hours. The Oyster, Seallop, and several others with unequal Shells, have no Foot, and are therefore deprived of lo- comotion. In the Razor-shell, the Foot is of such a nature as to enable the Animal to come to the surface, or bury itself in the sand, with great rapidity. In the common Cockle, the Foot is shaped like a Tongue, and is moved by several Muscles on each side, being em- ployed both in spinning and crawling. The former of these functions is performed by seizing, with its point, the Gluten which is furnished by a Gland situated at its base. It draws this out into threads, and, while stiU soft, it attaches them to the rock, &c. to which the Ani- mal is to be fixed. The Nervous System exists in most of the Animals of this class, and consists of a Brain placed upon the Eso- phagus, and of Nerves. In the Sepia, the Brain is contained in a Cartilaginous Covering belonging to the Head, and has connected with it a kind of Medullary Collar, inclosed in a semicircular Canal, which gives passage to the Esophagus. From the Collar, Nerves are sent off to the different parts of the Body. Some of considerable size go to the Tentacula; two Optic Nerves perforate Y'345 Part V.3 OF MOLLUSCA. perforate the Sclerotis, and swell out into large Ganglia, from which Fibrilbe go throvigh the Choroides to form the Retina. A pair of Nerves belong to the Muscles of the Sac, and another to the Organ of Hearing. A pair near the Heart forms a Plexus, which supplies the dif- ferent Viscera. In the Sepia Loliffo, the Brain consists of a small round Body, behind which are two little Lobes analogous to the Cerebellum. These send off a mere Filament in place of a Spinal Marrow. On each side of the Brain is a large mass, which sends off the Optic Nerve. In the Snail and Slug, the Brain is ^situated, in the former over, and in the latter behind, the Esopha- gus, and sends off a Process on each side of it, both u- niting below into a large Ganglion, from which and the ' Brain, Nerv'es are sent to tlie different parts of the Body. Eye.—The Sepia alone of this class of Animals possess- es true Eyes. Here we observe their great size, and the Skin covering them loosely as in Serpents; a transpa- rent Membrane underneath, which supplies the place of a Cornea, and to which the Lens is closely connected without the intervention of an Aqueous Humour; the Iris intimately connected to the Sclerotica, and a Semi- lunar Process projecting at the edge of the Pupil; the Ciliary Processes large, and forming a Zone about the Lens; between the Sclerotic and Choroid Coats, Glan- dular Bodies and the Ganglion of the Optic Nerve, which separate these two Coats from each other; the inner sur-, face of the Choroides of a deep purple colour, and only two Muscles belonging to the Ball of the Eye. The parts consitlcrcd as the Eye of Mollusca with Tentacula, or Horns, as the Snail and Slug, are pla- ced[Fact V. OF iMOLLUSCA. 5}40 ced upon the outer extremities of the Horns, thougli it is not yet lully ascertained whether tliese parts are real organs of vision. The Muscles which affect them arise o from the edges of the Foot of the Animal, and ex- tend as far as tlie Eyes. By tliese the Tentacula are drawn to the Head, something after the manner of an inverted Finger of a Glove. By a set of Circular Fibres contracting in succession, the Eye is restored to its for- nter external appearance. The Organ of Hearing in the Cuttle-Fish is a simple Bajr, concealed in the Annular Cartilage at the base of tlie great Tentacula. In the Sepia Officinalis^ the Sac has a Bone suspended in the Fluid which it contains. In the Sepia Octopus^ there is only a chalky substance. The Organ of Smell is supposed to belong to many of the Mollusca, but the situation is unknown. The Lips, in the Animals of this class, are in some short or real Lips; in others, elongated into a Tube or Proboscis. In the Cephalopoda, they are in form of a fleshy circle; in the Gasteropoda, they are merely a lon- gitudinal Slit. The Proboscis in many IMollusca, as the Whelk, &c. is a fleshy Tube for seizing the Food at a distance. It forms a kind of double cylinder, which can move in every direction, and retract within the Body. The Tongue varies much in length in some of this (flass, as the Limpet, where it is ahnost as long as the Boiily ; but in such cases there is no Proboscis. In the Lephalopoda and Gasteropoda, the ^I'ongue is covered with Spines directed backwards. The Sepia, Snails, and greater part of the Gasteropoda, have a Cartilagi- nousPart V.] OF MOLLUSCA. 347 nous Tongue. In the Acephala^ a proper Tongue is not very evident. The Salivary Glands, in Cephalopoda and Gastero- poda, are considerable. In the former there are twq pairs, each having a Duct, which unites with its fellow, and opens into the Mouth near the 'J'ongue ; the latter have commonly but one pair, which lies near the Mouth, Circulating System.—In the Cephalopoda, the Circu- lating Organs are more complicated than in otlier Ani- mals. In the Cuttle-Fish, thei*e are three Hearts, two Pulmonary, and one Aortic. Each of the Pulmonary Hearts consists of an Auricle and Ventricle. The Aortic Heart has only a Ventricle. There are two Pulmonary Arteries, one on each Gill, and the same number of corresponding Veins; an anterior and a posterior Aor- ta ; and an anterior and two posterior Venee Cavm. At the openings of the Veins into the Hearts, of the Auricles into the V'entricles, and of these into the Ar- teries, Valves are placed to prevent the retrograde di- rection of the Blood. The Ventricles have also Colum- nae Carneae, as in the former classes of Animals. The anterior Cava separates behind into tw-o parts, each of which receives a posterior Cava, and terminates in an Auricle. Where the Veins meet at the Pulmona- ry Hearts, there is an intricate net-work of Columnae Carneae and Foveae. The Auricle opens into the Ven- tricle, which is placed at the root of a corresponding Gill. From the Vent.icle the Branchial Artery is s nt put, which runs along one side of the Gill, while the[Paet V. OF MOLLUSCA. :348 Vein returns by the other. The Branchial Vein termi- nates in the Aortic Ventricle, from the opposite ends of which the Aortas go out, sending Branches to the different parts of the Body, from the extremities of which the Veins return by the Venae Cavae, The other Mollusca have a simple Heart, consisting of an Auricle and a Ventricle. The Gasteropoda, as the Slug, Snail, Limpet, &c. have each also one Auricle ' and one V^entricle. 'J'he Veins of tlie Body, upon approaching the Lung, change into a Pulmonary Artery, in the manner the Vena Portae Abdominalis changes into the Porta Hepa- tica; the Pulmonary V'^eins go to the Auricle, and this to the V^entricle, which sends, by an Aorta, Branches to the different parts of the Body. The Pulmonary System here is situated in the vicinity of the Rectum, by which the Vessels receive more readily the Veins of the Intestines. The Acephalous Mollusca, as the Muscle, and diffe- rent Conchas Bivalves Equivalves, have the Heart near the Rectum. The Auricle receives the Blood from the Branchiae, and sends it to the Ventricle, whence it is transmitted to the Body. Organs of' Respiration.—These consist of Branchia’, which are either concealed or exposed. The Cephalo- poda and Accphala have them shut; the Gasteropoda have them in different situations. In the Cuttle-Fish, the Lungs form two Conical Bodies, lying on each side of the Sheath, which incloses the V^iscera of the Abdo- »uen. d he Slug and Snail, among the Gasteropoda, haveOF MOLLUSCA. Part V.] 349 have a Cavity in the Neck, which supplies the place of a Lung, and has the Pulmonary Vessels dispersed upon its surface. The Lung, in these Animals, terminates by a small orifice on the surface of the Body, which can be opened or shut at pleasure, and the Lung dilat- ing or contracting, can admit or expel the air. In the rest of the Gasteropoda^ the orifice varies considerably in its situation, being in the back in some, in the breast in others. Some of the Acephalous Mollusca, as the Oyster.^ have their Lungs in form of Gills, which repre- sent leaves, each with a double Lamina, and a double Series of Vessels. Alimentary Canal.—The Alimentary Canal, in Mol- lusca, consists, as in more perfect Animals, of an Eso- phagus, Stomach, and Intestines, but the beginning and termination of the Canal varies considerably in si- tuation in dilFerent individuals. In the Sepia Octopus of the Mollusca Cephalopoda, the Esophagus, having passed the Cartilaginous Ring of the Neck, dilates into first, second, and third Stomachs, which somewhat re- semble those of Granivorous Birds. In the Sepiae Offi^ cinalis and Loligo, there is only a single Stomach or Gizzard. In the Gasteropoda in general, the Canal is in form of a Funnel; the most simple is in the Slug and Snail. The Stomach, in these, is of considerable size, and the Intestines make a couple of turns in their course through the Body. In many of the Mollusca, particularly among the Acephala, the Esophagus ex- pands into a Crop, which is covered internally by small Teeth. The Bulla Lignaria contains three Teeth of such[Part V ^ 350 OF MOLLUSCA, such strength, tliat llie Animal masticates other Testa- cca, upon which it lives. The Anus, in the Mollusca, varies considerably in situation among the different Ge- nera or Species. In the Cuttle-Fish, it is at the fore part of the Neck; in the Slvg and Snail, close to the Air-hole; in the Limpet, it is upon the top of the Head ; and in the Jcephala in general, opposed to the Mouth. The Liver, in the different Mollusca, is commonly large in proportion ; it has no Vena Portae ; it receives its Blood from the Aorta, and returns it by Veins to the Cava. In the Cephalopoda, the Liver is a brown mass, situated near the Head, and extending into the Abdomen. In the Sepia Loligo, the Bag which pro- duces the ink is situated on the Liver, and sends out a Duct, which terminates near the end of the Rectum. In the Sepia Officinalis, the Ink-bag is situated between the Lobes of the Liver, and in the Sepia Octopus, at a distance from them. In these Animals, according to CuviRK, the Liver sends Bile of an orange colour, by two Ducts, into the Gizzard. The contents of the Ink- bag are supposed to be discharged by the action of the large Muscular Sheath of the Body of the Animal, and serve to render the surrounding element bitter, when the Creature is in danger of being attacked by an ene- my. The Gasteropoda have a large Liver, divided into liobes, which send out a number of Ducts that sur- round the Alimentary Canal, and terminate in the In- testines. In the Slug, the transparent Blood-vessels form a border, which is conspicuous on the dark-co- loured Liver. In many of the Snail kind, the Liver, withPart V.] OF MOLLUSCA. 351 with the Organs of Generation, occupies the upper turns of tlie Shell. In the Acephalous Mollusca^ parti- cularly among the Bivalves, as the Muscle and Oyster, the Liver surrounds the Stomach, and discharges the Bile into it by many openings. Organs (^'Generation.—There are here four different combinations found ; 1. Separate Sexes with copulation, as in the and many others among the Gastero- poda ; 2. Sepai’ate Sexes without copulation, as in the Cuttle-Fish, and other Cephalopoda; 3. 'I'he Sexes united with reciprocal copulation, as in the Slug, and the greater part of the other Gasteropoda; 4. The Sexes united, and each individual fecundating itself, or forming a complete Hermaphrodite, as in the Oyster and other Acephala. In the Sepia Loligo, the Testicle is a large white Body, filling the bottom of the Abdominal Sac, and inclosed in a Membranous Capsule, to which it adheres at one part by Vessels. It is composed of Seminal Tubes, which occupy the greater part of its substance. The Testicle has connected with it an Epididymis formed of innumerable convolutions, as in the Human Body. There is here, also, a substance somewhat ana- logous to a Prostate Gland, and a fleshy Organ, hollow within, and perforated at the point, which is consider- ed as the Penis. This receives the Semen from the parts mentioned above, and projects in the Neck at the side of the left Branchia. The Semen, Ink, and Ex- crementitious Matter, pass through an Infundibulum placed under the Neck. In the Female, the Ova occu- py the same place as the Testicle in the Male, and are covered[Part V. 852 OF MOLLUSCA. covered also by a Capsule, and connected at one part by Vessels. One or two Oviducts end at the Anus, or at the sides of the Branchke, in the same place as the Penis does in the Male. Tliis, as well as the other Species, has two large Glands, which are supposed to furnish a Gelatinous fluid, to surround the Ova. In the Gaste7'opodous Hermaphrodites, there is one set, as the SnaiJ, and several others, where the Organs of the Sexes have a common outlet, and anotlier, as the Aplysia, where they have a separate exit. The first set have a Testiefe, a Vas Deferens, a Penis, and a Ve- sicle with a long Neck. The Testicle is a long white granulated Body, which sends out the Vas Deferens that terminates in the Penis, and this in a fleshy Sac, which is the common Cavity of Generation. The Ova- rium is composed of a cluster of Ova, situated between the Liver and Intestines. From the Ovarium an Ovi- duct goes out, which, about the season of sexual inter- course, makes zigzag turns, and is so connected to the Testicle, as to appear to receive liquor from it. It ter- minates in the common Cavity of Generation. In time of copulation, the Snail tribe turn out the common Cavity, which then presents the three openings of the Penis, Oviduct, and Vesicle. The Penis pene- trates the Oviduct of the other individual. The Eggs are observed to be produced a few days afterw^ards. The same circumstances, in general, take place among the other individuals. Of the Gasteropoda with Sexes separate, the Male of the Buccinum. Undatvm is observed to have a Testicle, W'hich, with the Liver, fills half of the deepest part of thePart V.] OF MOLLUSC A. 35$ the Shell. The Vas Deferens forms numerous turns, and goes to the Penis, which is of great size. It adheres to the right side of the Neck, and makes a fold in the Cavity of the Lungs. In the Female, the Oviduct is a great Canal at the right side of the Lungs, placed be- tween the Body and Rectum. The Acephala are found to be all Hermaphrodite. They fecundate themselves without copulation. An Ovarium is placed in both sides of the Body, directly under the Skin. At a certain period a white liquor ap- pears, which is considered as Semen. After the Ova are impregnated, they are situated between the Bran- chiae. In the Ovo-viviparous, as the Muscle, the young can be observed by the naked eye, and, if viewed with a Glass, can be seen opening and shutting the Shell. 7. VoL. IV. PARTPART VI. OF CRUSTACEA. The Body of the Animals of this class has a hard ex- ternal covering, frequently consisting of several scaly portions; and they have often a considerable number of articulated members. They have several pairs of Organs supplying the place of Jaws, which move only in a lateral direction,, the set on one side overlapping that on the other. They have one or two pairs of articulated moveable Bo- dies, termed Antennce, or Horns, placed on the Head, and two or three pairs of Palpi, or Feelers, articulated with the Jaws, for examining their nourishment. An Epidermis exists in this, as in other Inver- tebral Animals, The Shell holds the place of the Corpus Mucosum, but it is without organization. Un- der the Shell is a transparent Pellicle, instead of u Cutis. Muscles.—Those of the Lobster and Crahha,\e a con- siderable analogy to some of the Muscles of red-blood-355 OF CRUSTACEA. Part VI.] ed Animals, but arc confined to the parts moving the Tail, the Legs, and the False Feet. I'he Tail is a strong moveable substance, employed particularly in swimming and leaping, and has power- ful Muscles for moving it in various directions. The Feet vary in number and form in the different Genera. In the Genus Cancer, as an example, there are commonly five Feet on each side, with six joints to each Foot. The anterior is the largest, and forms the Pincer, or Claw\ The first of the pieces of the anterior Foot, is the Coxa, which is connected to the Thorax ; the second the Femur, which is nearly of a square form, and moves as a hinge on the Coxa; the third is the Tibia, which, at the under extremity, becomes broad and Spinous; the fourth is connected to the Tibia; the fifth is the Pincer, strictly so called, which is the largest of the whole, and has opposed to it the sixth, which forms a moveable Pollex or Thumb. The other Feet are like the Pincer, but differ in this, that the two last pieces are nearly of equal size. The two Posterior Feet terminate each in a single Claw. Flach articulation of the Feet has two Muscles, an Extensor and a Flexor, the strength varying according to the force required. Nervous System.—This varies according to the form and nature of the Animal. In the Lobster, there is a Nervous Cord, which has a knotted appearance, and extends from one end of the Body to the other. The short-tailed Cancer, or Crab, has a Medullary Circle in the middle of the Abdomen, from which the nerves of the Bodv go off' like Radii. In the Cray Fish, the 7. 2 Brain[Part VI. .■35G OF CRUSTACEA. Brain is divided above into four Lobes, from which a j)air of Optic Nerves are sent off. Four Nerves pass to the four Antennae and adjacent parts. From the pos- terior part of the Brain Nerves go off, which form a Collar round the Esopliagus. The different Nerves form Ganglia, which supply more particularly the seve- ral Muscles. In the Lobster kind in general, the Kye is placed oft a moveable Tubercle, and is somewhat conical. When magnified, it presents different Facets, which are hard and tran.sparent, representing so many Corneas. Lin- ing these, there is an opiupic Pigment, which appears to leave no aperture for the passage of the light. At a little distance from the Cornere, is a dark-coloured ^lembrane, cfmsidered as the Choroides, which has a production of the Optic Nerve on its posterior, as well as its anterior surface, and therefore forming a sort of double Retina. But how the light can act upon the bottom of the Eye through the opacpie lining of tlie Cornea,—and whether these Animals, from the com-' pound nature of their Eyes, see objects multiplied or single,—are circumstances not understood. The Ear, in the Lobste?', is a small Sac inclosed in a scaly cylinder. At the base of the Antennje, the Nerves pass through this cylinder into the Sac, the opposite ex- tremity of which is inclosed by an elastic Membrane analogous to the Membrana Tympani, or the Fenestra Ovalis, and is observed at the bottom of the large An - tenna'. Organ of Smell.—None is found in any of the Crus- tacea, though many iViithors liave been of ojiinion that this357 OF CRUSTACEA. Faux VI.] this sense resides in the Antennae. The Salivary Glands appear also to be wanting in the Animals of this class. Circulating System.—The Heart., in some, as the Crab., is placed near the middle of the Thorax, and is of an oval form, but has no Auricle ; in others, as the Shrimp, it runs from one end of the Body to the other, like a Blood-vessel. The Heart here, as in the Mollus- ca Gasteropoda, receives the Blood from the Branchiae by one or more Veins, and sends out Arteries, which go to the different parts of the Body. From the extre- mities of the Arteries, Veins return by a Cava, which divides into Branchial Arteries upon approaching the Gills. Organs of Respiration.—In the Crustacea, the Or- gans of Respiration consist of a set of Branchim, or Gills, which are proportionally larger than in most of the Animals of the former class. In the Cancer tribe, they are placed at the sides of the Thorax, and near the origin of the Feet. In some, as the Shrimp, they lie under the Tail between the Fins, floating loose- ly in the water. '1 he Gills vary in number and form in , different Genera and Species; but in all, they are near- ly of the same nature with the Gills of Fishes, and have the water constantly applied to them, so as to an- swer the different purposes of Respiration. Alimentary Canal.—The Stomach is singular in this dlass, especially in the Crab, Lobster, &c. in being form- ed upon a kind of Osseous Skeleton. Near the Pylorus are five Teeth of unequal size, wdiich, in some of these Animals, as the Lobster, are observed to be re-produced annually along with their external covering. The Teeth Z 3 are‘658 OF CRUSTACEA. [Part VI, are moved by particular Muscles, and possess a true power of mastication. 'I'he Stomach is situated in the Thorax above the Mouth, and, from its particular structure, is prevented from contracting and dilating like the Stomach of other Animals. The small Intestine is straight and cylindri- cal, but, towards its middle, it has a strong Valve and a long Caecum. Liver, <Vc.—The greater part of this class have no proper Liver. The Bile is derived from a collection of Intestinula Caeca, similar to those which supply the place of Pancreas in Osseous Fishes. They are of a yellow colour, and contain a bitter brown fluid, which they discharge into the beginning of the Intestine. These, together with the Stomach, fill almost the whole of the Thorax, the former composing the high-flavour- ed substance in the Crab and Lobster. Shrimps have a Liver of a different nature from that of other Crustacea ; being a solid Conglomerate Gland, arranged along the t'>»o sides of the Intestines, through their w'hole length. Org'avs of Generation.—Here the Testes in the Mal^ and Ovaria in the Female, are in some united together, and their External Organs are double. In the Crab, Lobster, &c. the Male has two Penises, and the Female two Vulvas. In the Male, the Testes are tw'o Glandular-like Bo- dies, separate in the Crab, but united in the Lobster, and here placed under the Heart. From the Testes, two convoluted Vasa Deferentia pass out, which end in a corresponding Penis behind the Fifth Pair of Feet. EacbPart VL] OF CRUSTACEA. 359 Each of the Penises has a horny Sheath, which conducts it to the Vulva of the Female. Of the Females, .the Lobster kind has the Ovaria united into one Body. Two short Oviducts go di- rectly to the Vulvae, which are simple Foramina in the substance of the Corslet or Thorax, at the base of the third pair of Feet. Crustaceous Females, after producing their Spawn or Ova, collect them at the Filaments of the Fins under the Tail, and carry them there till they open.PART VII. OF INSECTS. IxsECTs, like the other Genera of Invertebral Animals, Avanl an Osseous Skeleton ; a horny substance, in the greater number of perfect Insects, serves them for Skin and Bone, inclosing the IVIuscles and Internal Organs, and ffiving attachment to the different Members. Some, as the Locust and Beetle^ have Jaws large and distinct, placed in a lateral direction, and moving ho- rizontally ; others Avant them. Some have two Lips^ the one above, the other below, d hey have articulated with the Head, Antenna', and with the Mouth or Jaws, Palpi or Feelers, for examining their nourishment. All the Bisects with Jaws have the power of masticating hard Aninud and Vegetable substances. All Insects, which possess Wings, metamorphose, or pass through certain changes, before they arrive at their perfect form. In their first state, after leaving the Egg, they form Larvee or Caterpillars. The Lar- vae differ from complete Insects, chiefly in their Organs of motion. The Kings or Segments of which their Skin consists, are moved towards each other by Mus- cularPaut VII.] OF INSECTS. 3t)l culai* Bands situated within the Body. Sometimes they are covered by Bristles or Hooks, which enable them to lay hold more firmly of other substances. Many have Hairs or Spines upon the surface of their Body, which are cast off with the Skin at certain periods, and are afterwards re-produced. The Bodies of many Lnrvcc have, at their under, and near their fore part, six Feet, each terminating in a hook, by which they can fix themselves, and draw the posterior to the anterior part of dieir Body. Some have, besides, a number of small Claws, to assist them in their motions. Others crawl by the assistance of hooked Mandibles, and by Tubercles on different parts of their Body. The Bodies of Insects are divided into Head, Cors- let, Pectus, Abdomen, and Members. The Head is joined to the Body, in some, by ball and socket; in others, by plain surfaces ; in others, after the manner of a hinge. In some, the connection is entirely Liga- mentous, the different motions corresponding with the nature of the Joint. The Corslet or Thorax is situated between the Pectus and Head. The first pair of Feet are joined to this, and it contains the Muscles for mov- ing these and the Head. The Wings, when present, are fixed to the upper part of the Pectus, and the four posterior Feet to its under part. To the upper part a Horny Process is frequently fixed, termed Scutdlum, or Escuchcon. The Pectus contains the Muscles which move the Wings and four pair of Feet. Abdomen.—It commonly consists of different Rings. Int5G2 OF INSECTS. {Part VII. In some, it is directly continued from the Breast; in others, thei e is an evident contraction between them, and a real Joint connected by Ligaments. Sometimes the Abdomen is terminated by a Sting, by Bristles, IMates, &c. Members or Feet, and Wings.—In winged Insects, the number of the Feet is generally six, never less, but frequently more ; Scorpions, Spiders, &c. have eight; Millipedes and Scolopendra, or Centipedes, have them attached to every ring of the Body. The Feet consist of the Coxa or Haunch, the Femur or Thigh, the Ti- bia or Leg, the J'arsus or Toe. Each of these is in- closed in a horny case, and moves as on a hinge. The Toe consists, in general, of several Joints, the last of which is terminated by one or two hooked Claws. The Articulations vary according to the mode of life. They are slender in many that burrow in the earth, as in the Scarahccus. They are like Fans, and ciliated on the sides in those that swim, as in the Hydrophilus, or Diver. They have Viscous Balls, bi'istly Tufts, &c. in such as walk in smooth and slippery parts, as in the common Fly. In Insects that crawl upon Hairs, there are two moveable and opposite Claws, as in Lice, tkc. F/ach of the Joints of the Feet is furnished with an Fxtensor and a Flexor Muscle, inclosed in the preced- ing Joint. The Wings are attached to the lateral parts of the Pectus. I'he greater number of Insects have four, some only tw'o, some none. In some, they are purely Mem- branous ; others liave them covered with Farinaceous Scales3G3 Part VIL] OF INSECTS. Scales of different colours. In the Colcoptera, &c. the Scales of the Wings, and in the Lepidoptera and some others, those of the Body, are small Horny Plates, laid over each other like the tiles on a house. The Muscles that move the Wings are not well as- certained. Some are small and short, and are supposed to extend or to fold them; others are larger, for ele- vating or depressing them, Epidermis.—Insects in general, whether in the per- fect or imperfect state, possess an Epidermis. In the Larva, it is found to be several times shed before the Chrysalis state takes place. It varies in thickness in different Insects. In those living in water, it is com- monly of a Mucous nature. Perfect Insects have no Cutis, of course no Papillae Nervosae. Their Palpi or Feelers are considered as proper Organs of Touch, by which the Animal examines surrounding objects. The Corpus Mucosum is placed between the Cuticle and Muscles in the Larvae, and is supposed to give ori. gin to the colour of Insects. In some, as the Fire^ Flies in America, there is a Gelatinous shining colour, which gives light in the night. Brain and Nervous System.—'I'he Brain, in Insects, may be considered as the anterior extremity of the Spi- nal Marrow, slightly enlarged. In the Larvae of large Insects, the Brain consists of one or more Lobes in tt Horny Cavity in the Head. From these Lobes commonly two Nerves descend, and, embracing the Esophagus, unite into a Cord ana- logous to the Spinal Marrow. This extends through the[Part VII. OF INSECTS. The the Body, forming, in its course, ten or twelve Gan- glia, from which, and from the Brain, Nerves go off to the different parts ol the Animal. In perfect Insects, the Brain has generally tw'o Lobes, and is also situated above the Esophagus. The Nerves and Ganglia, in some Insects, are similar in number, general appearance, and distribution, to those of Larvae; in others, they vary considerably in all these respects. —There are tw'o kinds of Eyes in this tribe of Animals, some small and simple, and termed Stemmata, varying from two to eight in number; others are large, appearing like a collection of smaller Eyes, but arc only two in number. These are divided, in some Insects, into many hundred hexagonal convex surface.s, which appear like so many different Cornem or Lenses. The simple Eyes are found in most of the Aptcra, and in the Larvffi of many winged Insects, but arc too small for examination. When the Larvae change into complete Insects, they change also their simple for compound Eyes. Several Genera of winged Insects and Aptera, are observed to have simple besides compound Eyes; many Insects, on the other hand, have no Eyes. The Eyes of Insects have no Eye-lids, ai*e commonly im- moveable, and, according to Swammerdam, do not con- tain the same Humours which are found in the higher classes of Animals. The appearances of the Eyes of Insects are so diffe- rent from those in other classes, that experience alone shews them to be Eyes. When they are covered or cut out, the Animal can no longer find its way.S65 Part VIL] OF INSECTS. The Cornea of compound Eyes is lined witli an opaque Mucus, varying in colour in different Insects. Behind this white spots appear, equal to the number of the Facets of the Cornea. On the back part of this a Choroides is found, which appears to receive a real Re- tina ; but further investigation is necessary to shew how the rays of light can reach the bottom of the Eye, so as to enable the Animal to form distinct vision. Ii} the greater number of Insects, the Eyes appear to be des- titute of motion. Ear.—The Organ of Heai'ing has not been found in any of the individuals of this class, though it is not to be doubted that they enjoy the Sense of Hearing, since, in the Males, means are provided for calling the Females to them, which are heard by the latter, as is observed in the Crickets^ Grasshoppers, Death-xeatch, &c. Nei- ther is there any ap[:>earance of an Organ of Smell, though they give proofs of the existence of this Sense. They discover their Food seemingly by its smell, some- times even at a considerable distance; and some, as the Flcsh-JIy, frefjuently deposite their Ova on Plants, as the Arum Dreicuntium and Stapclia Hirsuta, which have the smell of Carrion ; though, in such cases, the -Mag- gots commonly perish through want. The |iart which has been considered, by some late Authors, as supply^ ing the place of the Organ of Smell, is the Stigma, or entry into the Trachea; by others, the Antennae have been looked upon as answering this purpose. When Insects are deprived of their Antennae, it has been ob- served that they are incapable of recognizing theif 4 haunts, or their Food, though placed close by them. Or (ran^66 OF INSECTS. [Part VII Organ of Taste and Salivation.—The seat of the Organ of Taste in Insects is variable. The Under Lip by some, the posterior pair of Palpi by others, but commonly the long Tube in the Buttcrf y, has been con- sidered as the Tongue. Many of the Butterjlies^ Bees, Ants, Common Flies, and Spiders, have a Spiral or Tu- bular 'I'ongue, or a soft Proboscis, in a horny pointed Tube, by which they suck in their nourishment. No Salivary Glands are observed in the Mouths of Insects, though a fluid similar to Saliva, but varying in colour in different Insects, is observed to come from the INIouths of some of these Animals. Circulating System.—No real Circulating System has been found in proper Insects, yet many of these Animals, both in the Larvae and perfect state, have a Membra- nous Canal along the Back, in which alternate contrac- tions and dilatations are discerned. In the Caterpillar, the pulsation begins at the posterior extremity of the Animal, and proceeds from one segment of the Body to another, till it arrives at -the Head. This Vessel is therefore considered by some Authors as the Heart, but it is closed at the extremities, and Vessels are seen going from or to it. Nutrition and Secretion, therefore, are supposed to be effected in a different manner from what takes place in more perfect Animals. Cuvier considers Imbibition to be the mode by which these are performed. Respiratory Organs.—Respiration is performed by Tracheae ramified over most of the Body, but chiefly on the Intestines; there are, however, no Cellular l^ungs. The Tracheae arc much larger and more nu- meroLitiPaet VII.] OP INSECTS. 367 In merous in the Larvae of Insects, than in the perfect state. In Larvae, a Trachea runs on each side of the Body, under the Skin, and generally opens externally by nine or ten apertures, termed Strgmata. From these the same number of Air-vessels, or Branchiae, of a silver colour, pass off, to be dispersed through the Body by innumerable Branches, but particularly on the Alimen- tary Canal, and on the part compared to the Omentum. The above is the most common distribution of the Tra- cheae ; but in several Aquatic Larvae, and even perfect Insects, the Air enters by two openings near the Anus, at the end of the Abdomen. Hymenoptera and Dvptcra have two principal Tracheae, with some small ones, at the base of the Abdomen. The Aranece have no 'Fra- cheae ; their organs of Respiration are confined to a few Vesicles, but which have an aperture at each side of the base of the Abdomen. The Tracheae of Insects are described by Authors as being composed of an outer, inner, and middle Mem- brane, the last of which is formed of Spiral Fibres. Insects are incapable of forming any Voice ; the noise which many of them make is formed chiefly by their Wings. Alimentary Canal.—The Esophagus is a straight short T ube, reaching from under the Brain to the first Gan- glion of the Nerves. The rest of the Canal difl'ers much in appearance in different kinds of Insects, and in different stages of the same Individual. In the Lar- vae state, it is of great size, particularly the Stomach, when compared with that of the perfect Insect.OF INSECTS. [Paiit VII. 868 In Insects, as in other Animals, the same propor- tional size is preserved in the Animal and Vegetable eaters, the Canal being always short in the former, and long in the latter. In Dragon Fly., which is a Car- nivorous Insect, the Canal is short, and the Stomach Muscular. In the Locust., which feeds upon Vegetables, the Canal is long and complicated, the Stomach Mem- branous, and there is a true Gizzard. In some the Sto- mach is single, in some double, in others manifold. The greater number of Insects have a single Stomach, which is sometimes Membranous, sometimes Muscular, at other times there is no perceptible dilatation. The Stomach of the Bee is a IVIenibranous Bag, in which the Nectar of the Flowers is converted into Honey, which it afterwards vomits, and deposites in the Hive. In several instances, the Esophagus and Rectum are surrounded by a turn of the Spinal Mar- row^ dhe Mesentery is wanting in Insects. The Stomach, in the Larva, commonly differs from that of the perfect Insect. In the former, it is for the most part of great size ; while in the latter, which take litttle nourishment, it is remarkably small. Some In- sects, as the Grasshopper., Ci’icJcet, &c. which have a plurality of Stomachs, have the power of throwing the Food to the Mouth to be chewed again, 'and are there- fore sometimes termed Ruminating Insects. The Anus, in Insects, not only affords a passage for the Faeces, but incloses the extremities of the Parts of Generation. Liver., (§r.—1 here is no true Liver in Insects, though, both in the Larva and perfect state, there is a set of fineOF INSECTS. 369 Pa»t VIL] fine Vessels, or Intestinula Caeca, attached to the Ali- mentary Canal, which produce a liquor, generally yel- low, though sometimes white, which is considered as the Eile. The Ducts terminate commonly near the Stomach, but now and then in a more distant part of the Intestines. The Spleen is wanting here, but in Larvae, and in some perfect Insects, particularly in those that spend a considerable part of their time in a torpid state, a large Adipose substance occupies a considerable portion of the Body, and exists in great abundance in the Larvae of Insects. It has been considered by some as an O- mentum, though a real Omentum, such as is found in many Animals, does not exist in this class. Insects have neither Kidneys, Bladder of Urine, nor Pancreas, their different secretions being performed by loose Vessels, which float in the Abdomen. By means of these, various fluids are secreted, some of which have a foetid, and others a pleasant smell. The Bee, Wasp, &c. have two Vesicles situated at the bottom of their Sting, which throw out a very acrid fluid, that the Ani- mal can discharge at pleasure through a perforation in the Sting^ In the Bee, the Sting is barbed at the point, and commonly remains in the wound it inflicts. The Scorpion throws a fluid of a dangerous nature, also, through its sting. Some of the Spiders discharge a fluid, which renders their bite dangerous. Organs of 'Generation.—The greater number of In- sects have the external parts of Generation situated at the posterior part of the Abdomen. In Spiders, with a few exceptions, thev are placed in the Palpi Maxllla- VoL. IV. A a res.370 . OF INSECTS. [Part VII. res. The Male Organs in general have a Spermatic Vessel something analogous to Testes, two Vesiculaj Scminales, and a Penis inclosed in a Sheath. The Testes and Vesiculae vary extremely in different Genera, being in some simple, in others complicated, and diffe- rently contorted and collected into Fasciculi. The Female Organs are more uniform than the Male. In the whole class they consist of Tubes or Ovaria, containing the Ova. The Tubes unite into two Canals, and these into an Oviduct, which tei'minates in a com- mon opening, the Vulva. These parts are even seen in the Chrysalis a little before the Metamorphosis. All Insects are Oviparous ; their Ova change first into Lar- vee, Caterpillars, or Maggots. The Maggot changes into the Chrysalis, Pupa, Nympha, or Aurelia. This forms the Imago, Fly, or perfect Insect. The parts of the future Animal are observed not only in the Caterpillar, but also in the Chrysalis, though more distinct in the former. Before the Caterpillars change to the Chrysalis state, each spins to itself a covering. The Secretory Organ which forms this is found to be the same in Insects in general, and is well exemplified in the Silk-worm. It consists of two long tortuous Tubes, which enlarge by degrees, and form a Sac or Reservoir, from which a Duct goes out, and terminates below the Under Lip. In working the Silk, the Animal fixes its Mouth to some point of a solid substance, from which it carries out a Thread as yet glutinous; this, spun to some length, is fastened to another point, from which a second ThreadI’ART VII.] OF INSECTS. is drawn out in a different direction ; and so on, till, by successive repetitions, the Animal is completely inclosed. In the Silk-worm, the change from the ChrijsaUs to the Fly happens in ten or more days, according to the season. The Copulation of these Animals is exceed- ingly tedious, the IMale beating his Wings upwards of a hundred times before he separates from the Female. The Ova are soon afterwards produced, to the amount of several hundred, through a short Tube from the end of the Abdomen. The Fly dies a few days there- after. In some Insects, besides Male ami Female, there is a third set, termed Neuter, not having the distinguish- ing characters of either sex. They are a kind of Eu- nuchs, or Infertile Animals, and are peculiar to this class, dhey are found only in those that form into societies, as Bees, Wasjis, and Ants. There ai-e no Hermaphrodites among Insects. Aa L> r AIITPART VIII. OF WORM S. W oRMs differ from the former class of Animals, in having no Antennse, and being destitute of Members. In same Worms are bard parts, forming a sort of Jaws or Teeth. Some have Lateral Jaws. The Lumbrici have none. The Aphrodite has four Teeth and a Pro- boscis, which it can extend or retract at pleasure. The Leech has three semicircular projecting Teeth, of a Cartilaginous nature, with sharp denticulated edges, with which it pierces the Skin. In a large Species of Nereis, the entry into the Esophagus has eight Calca-. reous pieces in place of Jaws and Under Lip. Worms possess a distinct Epidermis, but scarcely any thing that can be called a Cutis. Several, as the Ajjhro- dite, Lumbricus, &c. are partly or entirely covered with Hairs, or Bristles, or Spines, or Tubercles, &c. which assist them in crawling, being destitute of Feet. Some, as the -Intestinal Worms, are covered with a Slime which may exude from the surface of their Skin. They have two kinds of Muscles for performing their different motions, one consisting of four Fasciculi, two above.OF WORMS. SIS Pajit VIII.] • A a 3 the above, and two below their Body, which they move ac- cording to the direction or skuatlou of the Fibres. These form the principid part of the Body of the Ani- mal. Another set of MuscJcs are appropriated to the Hairs, Bristles, Sic. and consist of short Fibres, some of which are for pusliing them outwards, others for drawing them inwards. By these Muscles, and tlie Spines, Sic. on which they act, the Animal is enabled to perform its locomotion. One set of Worms want these Spines or Bristles, of course move in a different manner fmm the former. Tlieir progression is accomplished by applying the two extremities of their Body alternately to the surface of the parts on which they move. These consist of Leeches^ which have the extremities of their Bodies formed into contractile fleshy Disks or Suckers; or some have Anterior Extremities provided with Hooks ; tlie outer parts of their Body being a fleshy Sac, com- posed of longitudinal and circular Fibres. By fixing one end, and contracting the circular Fibres, the Body can be so elongated, as to allow the other extremity to reach the place intended. The Animal now fixes this extremity, and, by contracting the longitudinal Fibres, draws the other end forwards. Nervous System.—No Nerves have been discovered in several of the internal Worms, but in the external Worms the Nervous System has been considered as ana- logous to that of Crustacea and Insects. A Cord generally runs through the whole length of the Animal, and has Ganglia regularly dispersed, from which numerousNerves proceed to the different parts of the Body. In the Aphro- dita Aculeatdf the Nervous System is similar to that ofOF WORMS. 374 [Part VIII. The the Larva? of Insects. A Ganglion representing the Brain is situated on tlie Head, and forms a Collar round the Esophagus, sending Nerves to the rest of the Body. In the Leech.) the Nervous System is a slender Cord, com- posed of numerous Ganglia. The first sends a Collar round the I]sopliagus ; the others send Nerves to the ditferent parts of the Body. The Earth-worm has also a Ganglion or little Brain about the Esophagus, but no others in the rest of the Body. The Lwmbrims Huma- nus has the appearance of a Collar about the Esophagus, a Cord along each side of the Body, and several Ganglia. Neither Eyes, Ears, nor Nose, have been discovered in Worms, yet they can select the nourishment proper for them. Circtdating Stjstcm.—Circulating Vessels are percep- tible here, with distinct contraction and dilatation, but without any Heart, in some of the Animals of this class; in others, they arc wanting or invisible. The Blood, in several Worms, is more or less of a reddish colour, and in some is as deep as in the higher classes of Ani- mals. A great Vessel, in many, runs along the Bach, and diminishes towards the Extremities. The Leech has a principal Vessel on each side, which communicates with the opposite one by many transverse Branches ; forming a Plexus on the Back, and another on the Belly. These are supposed by Naturalists to serve for Respiration, there being no other evident Organ for this purpose. There is also a \'essel running along the Back, which appears to be an Artery. It gives Branches to the two sides, but whether the two sets of Vessels communicate, is not fully^ascertained.Part VIII.] OF WORMS. 375 I'he Earth-worm also has longitudinal Vessels filled with red blood, in which, as in all other Wornis with red blood, there is a distinct pulsation. Their Vascu- lar Skin supplies the place of Branchiaj; but in the other Genera there is a subdivision of the Blood-vessels in the form of a Tuft, which may answer a similar pui- pose. In some, as the Aphrodite, there are little Crests, like those of a Cock, placed above each Tubercle, car- rying Spines. In all these Animals, the Branchiae are provided with Arteries and Veins, as in the higher classes, and here Respiration is considered to be per- formed by the Vascular System. In Hydatids there is nothing like a Vascular System. Intestinal Canal.—I’he Lumbriens Terrestris has but one long Canal, destitute of a Mesentery, divided by several Partitions; the anterior dilatations forming a sort of Stomach. In the Leech, this Canal runs from one end of the Body to another, and is divided into many Cells. In some Worms, as the Taenia and Fasciola Hepa- tica, the Esophagus serves as an Aorta, conveying nou- rishment to the other parts of the Body. In the Tcenia Solium, or common Tape-worm, which is composed of a chain of Quadrangular Joints, there is an Orifice, in one of the margins of each articulation. This has been considered by most Authors as a Mouth, and by a few, as Bloch, &c. is regarded as a Vagina. It is sometimes in the one Margin, or sometimes in the other, without observing any particular order. From this Orifice a Canal goes off’, which runs along the mar- gin of each Joint, and communicates with its fellow at the extremity of eadi articulation. A Canal is also seen A a 4 in IOF WORMS. [PautVIU. 376 in some, proceeding from an Orifice in the middle of each Joint, the Canals communicating between the different ^Joints through the whole length of the Animal. At the posterior extremity of the last Joint, the Vessels are found to be imj)ervious. The Ascarides have a simple Canal, and nearly equal throughout, running in a longitudinal direction. The anterior portion has a slight dilatation, considered as a sort of Stomach. T- he Lumbricufs Humanus^ or Ascaris Lumhricoides, has a simple Canal, extending through the Body, and ending near the posterior extremity of the Animal. In the Trichuris ffominis, (a Worm about two inches long, ending in a filiform Tail), the Intesti- nal Canal extends through the whole length of the Body. The Liver is wanting in all Worms. Organs of Generation.—Worms, like Mollusca, have three diversities of Sexes ; 1. Separate Sexes; S. Sexes' united. 3. Sexes with reciprocal copulation. The A- plirodite has Sexes separate. Individuals of tliis genus arc occasionally found full of Eggs in the intervals of the \ isccra, but the preparatory Organs are not yet discover- ed. The Lumbricus Terrestris hastheOrgans at theunder part of the Body, between the middle and the anterior extremity; the Ovarium consists of sma'il oval Sacs fill- ed with Ova, There are two openings here with smaller ones, but no male parts are observed, though they closely adhere in copulation. Hydatids, so frequently found in the Liver and other parts of the Body in Mammalia, liave lx*cn consider- ed by some as Animals, consisting merely of a Sto- mach ; by others, as a Matrix or Womb, from some- thing like young Hydatids being frequently found ad- heringOF WORMS. S77 Part VIII.] hering to their inner side. Hydatids immersed in warm water, immediately after being obtained from a living Animal, are observed to have a contractile power, but they have no external opening. They are of different sizes and kinds; most commonly there is either one or more Hydatids floating in the same Cyst. Each con- sists of two Coats, the inner of which is extremely de- licate. Neither of them possesses any visible Blood-ves- sels, thougR the Sac containing them has abundance of Vessels, Nerves, &c. derived from those of the Organ with which it is connected. Hydatids ought not to be con- founded with watery Vesicles, connected occasionally with the Kidney, &c. which are not inclosed in Cysts, ha\’e no small Hydatids adhering to their inner surface, and want contractility. In other Animals, a Hydatid is found, with a Head and Mouth, by which it adhei es to the inner surface of the Sac w hicli incloses it. In the Ijcech^ the Sexes are double in each individual, and they have reciprocal copulation. The Male parts consist of two Testes, each formed of a convoluted Duct. A short Vas Deferens, ending in a kind of Pe- nis, is observed at tlie under side, near the anterior ex- tremity. In the vicinity of this there is a Vagina, wdiich seems to receive the Penis of the other individual. The Lumhrici Intcstinorum have distinct Sexes. In the Male, a thread-like Vessel, four or five times the length of the Animal, much convoluted, but easily un- ravelled, composes the Testes. This forms a Vesicula Seminalis, which is equal to upwards of a third part of the length of the Body, and is .sometimes nearly as large as a crow-quill, full of a milky liquor. The Vesicula ends378 OF WORMS. [P-vrt VIII. ends in a Penis concealed near the posterior extremity of the Animal. The Female has likewise two long Filiform Spermatic \’essels, also much convoluted, but readily unravelled, forming the Ovaria. These contain Ova like fine pow- der, They gradually enlarge, and form two Cornua Uteri, which unite into a Vagina. This opens near the middle of the Body. The Vasa Spermatica, in the Female Lumb7-ici, have fi*equently been mistaken for young Worms. Ascaris.—The Male Organs of Generation have not been discovered. In the Female, a slender Tube runs spirally about the Intestinal Canal, and terminates near the middle of the Body. Globules have been found in it, considered as the Ova. In the Ti’ichiiris, the Organs of Generation are some- what similar to those in the Ascarides. The orifices on the margins of the Taenia, as was formerly mentioned, have been by some considered as Vaginae, leading to a set of Vessels filled with a white fluid, considered by some as the Ova, by others as the Chyle. ‘ The different kinds of Tocnia; are supposed to be Hermaphrodite. P A R TPART IX. The OF ZOOPHYTES. Zoophytes have, like Worms, a Cuticle, though in some not very distinct, but no part analogous to the Cutis. The Corpus Mucosum is seen only in a few. The Echimcs is covered with a Calcareous Skin, upon which are Tubercles regularly disposed ; and innume- rable Spines, by which the Animal can move in what- ever position it happens to be placed. Among the Spines are a set of smaller Bodies, of different forms, which have been sometimes considered as a sort of An- tennae, supplying the place of the Organs of the Senses in the higher classes of Animals. In the Asterim^ tile covering is of a firm fibrous tex- ture, and has the interstices of the Fibres filled with Calcareous Granulae. The Body is divided into Radii or Branches, of which there are commonly five, though ‘ sometimes a smaller, at other times a greater number. Throughout the wdiole length of the Branches, several rows of Feet are attached, which give the Animal a certain degree of motion.OF ZOOPHYTES. [Part IX. G80 The The Ilolotliuria is covered with a thick Coriaceous Skin, whicli, by means of longitudinal and circular bands of IVIuscular Fibres, the Animal can shorten or lengthen at pleasure. Some of the Animals of this Genus have numerous Feet, which are either spread over, or situated upon, the side of the Body. In some, the Feet are entirely wanting. The other orders of Zoophytes have a contractile power residing in their substance, somewhat similar to that of the Mollusca Nuda. The Medusa, by alternate- ly rendering its Body convex or flat, can so displace the water as to fit it for swimming; but Muscular Fibres cannot be discovered liere, probably on account of their transparency. The Actinia has such a contractile power in its Skiij, as to assume a variety of forms. It can turn itself into a plain surface, or become cylindrical <w conical, &c. at pleasure. In the Hydra, or common Polypus, only some move- able Tentacula are found. Tlie small Animals termed VortkeUa and Rotjfera, are observed, by the assistance of glasses, to have Cilia of different forms, moving round their axis with great rapidity. ' In the Mouth of the Echinus ate five Teeth of great size, which surround the entry to the Esophagus, and have Muscles for enabling tliem to masticate their Food. The Star-Jish has no Teeth, but a round Mouth, which leads, by a short Esophagus, to the Stomach. The Spines round the Mouth, though not proper Teeth, are observed to lay hold of the prey.381 Part IX.] OF ZOOPHYTES, The The Holotliuria has a large Mouth, surrounded by semi-osseous Plates, which serve chiefly for the attach- ment of Muscles and Tentacula. Round the Mouth are Sacs, which open into it, and are supposed to dis- charge a kind of Saliva. ' ‘ The Monades^ and other Microscopical Animals, ap- pear to be extremely simple, having neither any appa- rent Mouth nor Stomach. They seem to be Gelatinous masses, nourishing themselves by imbibing from their surface. Nervous System.—No distinct Nervous System has yet been found in this class of Animals. In the Echinus, nothing has been seen which bears any resemblance to Nerves. In the Asterias are parts, something similar to them, round the Esophagus. There is a soft white circle, from which Filaments run to each of the Branches of the Animal, and also to the Stomach. Something of a similar nature is seen in the Holothuria. Between the different pairs of longitudinal Muscles, a white cord appears, marked with the zig-zag lines seen in the Nerves of other Animals, and seeming also to encircle the Esophagus. No appearance of Nerves has been detected either in the Medusa or the Actinia. In the Hydra, or Polypus with Arms, and also in Animals the productions of infusion, there is nothing like Nerves, yet they are sensible of heat, d'hey prefer light to darkness, and have so far the sensation of Touch, as to feel the agitation of the water that sur-* rounds them.[Part IX. OF ZOOPHYTES. 138a The different Organs of the Senses are not demon- strable here, though, as in the Vermes, Zoophytes are to be considered as possessing Senses adapted to their maimer of living. Vascular System.—Tn the Echinus^ two Vessels run along the Intestines, one considered as an Aorta, the other a V ena Cava, but without any visible Heart. From these a Plexus runs off, to be distributed upon the Intestines and Mesentery. Something of the same kind is to be observed in the Asterlas. In the Echinus, there is a set of Tubes, considered by Dr Monro as Absorbents, which have a visible Muscidar structure, and without Valves. The outer end of each of the Tubes has a flat plate, by which the Ani- mal adheres when it fixes upon any object. In the middle of the plate is an orifice, which imbibes the sea-water, that is conducted to Vessels in the inner part . of the Shell, Each of the Ducts perforates the Shell by two Foramina; and tfie different Foramina are pla- ced in five pairs of parallel lines, called by Naturalists Ambulacra, from their similarity to alleys in a garden. Upon the inner side of the Shell, they run to two ranges of Laminae, composed of Plexus of Vessels, from each of which a Duct runs to a large Tube, which receives all the Absorbents of one of the double ranges. The large Tube terminates in Reservoirs over the Sockets of the Teeth, through which it is supposed, that after a se- cretion has been made, tlie fluid absorbed is returned to the sea. In the Medusa Rhizostomes, and the Coriaceous Poly- pi.Part IX.] OF ZOOPHYTES. the pi, the Vessels which carry the nourishment come di- rectly or indirectly from the Stomach. In the Hydra, or Polypus with simple Arms, no Ves- sels are observed ; they Imbibe their nourishment by means of the Pores of their Gelatinous covering; and even when their Body is inveiled, their external, now becoming an internal surface, is found to digest their Food equally well with the other. Tlie Monadvs, Protecs, and other Microscopical A- nimals, are found to be the most simple of any, ap- pearing to be mere Gelatinous Masses, destitute of Mouth and Stomach, and receiving their nourishment through the surface of their Body. The Rotifera, Vorticella, and some other equally minute Animals* however, are observed to have a Stomach. Organs of Respiration.—The Vessels seen on the sur- face of the Animals of the order EeMnodermata, as the Echinus, and the soft Gelatinous Zoophytes, as the Me- dusa, are supposed by some Authors to draw in nou- rishment from without, and to serve also as a sort of Respiratory Organs; but these are circumstances not yet fully ascertained. The fresh-water Polypi, or Zoo- phytes strictly so called, imbibe nourishment through their whole surface. Of the order Infusoria, or Animalcula if Iirfusions, their diminutive size renders it impossible to ascertain any thing about their nature. Alimentary Canal and Cavity.—In some of the indi- viduals of the class, there is an Alimentary Canal be- ginning by a Mouth, and terminating by an Anus. In others there is a Sac, .simple or complex. In the first,[Part IX. ^384- OF ZOOPHYTES. the Canal is sustained by a Mesentery, which fixes it to the walls or covering of the Animal, as in the Echino- dennata, where, in some of these, as the Echinus and IlulotJiuria, it makes turns within the Body, and ends in the Anus; in others, as the Sipunculus, it is a simple Canal; and in the Asterias^ a Sac in the centre of the Animal, from which two Canals extend into each of the Branches. In some of the others, as the Medusa, the Alimentary Canal is not suspended by the Mesentery, but is a com-' mon Cavity in the genei'al mass. The Stomach occupies the part termed Pedicli. From this Cavity Vessels arise, which convey the nou- rishment to the different parts of the Body. In some the Medusce, there is a simple opening; in others, there are Tentacula with open orifices, leading to Ca- nals, that, uniting together, form Trunks which con-« vey the Food into the Stomach. This structure has been compared by Cuvier to the roots of trees, in con- sequence of which he forms a new Genus, termed Rhi- zostoma, or Mouth-root. The common Polypus has the most simple form of the Alimentary Canal, the whole Body being only a kind of Stomach, and having a single opening situated at the centre of the Tentacula, the Animal nourishing its spongy substance by imbibition. The Polypi, which, by their union, form the com- pound Animals that produce the different Lythophytes, are observed to have a nutritive system something simi- lar to the common Polypus and the Medusa. They combine the Stomachs of the former with the Vessels of38.5 Pakt IX] OF ZOOPHYTES. of the latter. Each Polypus has a Stomach, from which Tubes run into the Stalk which supports all the Polypi; here they form a neUwork, which occupies the whole of this substance. The Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera, viz. liver^ Spleen, and I’ancreas, are entirely wanting in this class. Organs ^Genei-ation.—^AU the Echinoderru'ita appear to be Hermaphrodite, and possess the power of fecun- dating themselves. Their Ovaria occupy a great part of their Body, especially when pregnant. Sometimes they are observed to be bathed in a milky liquor, which is supposed to be the Semen. The Echinus has five Lobes in the Ovarium or Roe^ These open by several Ducts, which communicate, and pierce the Shell near the Anus. The Ovaria form die eatable part of this Animal. In the Asterias, the Ovaria form also five Lobes, one for each Branch of the Body, and these are composed of the Ova, which have a reddish colour. In tlie Holothuria^ there is a collection of slender Tubes, which greatly extend at particular seasons, and are considered as the Ova; but there is, besides, near the Anus, numerous white spiral Filaments, but whe- ther belonging to the Male Sex is uncertain. The Zoophytes properly so called, have no Genera- live Organs ; they propagate by Buds and Slips, some- thing after the ‘ manner of the growth in Branches of Trees. In the Actinia and Polypi, the young sprout out from any part of the external surface of the Parent. When VoL. IV. B b theyOF ZOOPHYTES. [Part IX. 886 they are divifled, each of the portions forms a perfect Animal. Corals, Madripores, &c. are compound Polypi, fixed upon a Calcareous Base, constructed by the Animals themselves. Spionges are also compound Animals, having a Vege- tating Hoot and Stem. In their recent state, they con- sist of an Animal Jelly. The only sign of life in them is a slight tremor and contraction on being touched. After death, the Jelly disappears, nothing but tlie base of the Animal remaining.% I > / J ft 1 'JL .I r » , iT V*#■i • • ‘V t i LI % ¥ f ( ^ t ft '5T' « ft «> 'yf- M 4T \ V i I# -i-' •I'« Jf 'i r w IKING’S College LONDON 0)N\t\ Hf- Library P^iOUvJ UtO£S o£- Cot^r\Cprri\/£_ N>^M'ObK/ \m 201096401 9 KING’S COLLEGE LONDON3 vv. E w I r \ ) ■c* t • i’.' 4 A’ • '?■ ?/ -A f;