ASP ASP 36 it stand a weelc, then boil the pickle; when it has stood another week, boil it a third time: when cold cover the jar close. Asparagus Ragout.—Scrape and clean some asparagus, use the prime part only ; wash a head, or two of endive, and a lettuce; cut them small; fry altogether till nearly dry in butter with a little sha- lot; shake in some flour, stir them about, put in some cullis, pepper, and salt; stew all till the sauce is thick enough ; garnish with a few of the asparagus heads plain boiled. Asparagus Salad.—Scale and cut off the Leads of large asparagus ; boil them till nearly done ; strain and put them into very cold water for five minutes, and drain them dry, afterwards lay them in rows on a dish; garnish with slices of lemon, and dressing as other salads. Asparagus Soup with Green Pease.— Make a good soup of roots, and, when strained, boil a pint of green pease. Choose some middling-sized asparagus ; cut them in pieces about three inches long, blanch them in boiling water, and then throw them into cold water; drain and tie them in small bundles ; split the tips and boil them with the pease, when done make a puree of them, and mix it with the root soup, and garnish with the asparagus. Use good meat broth for the root soup. Kiln-dried green pease may be used, if you cannot procure fresh new pease, and if your soup fails in colour, green it with some spinach that has been boiled nearly enough, squeezed dry, and passed through a tammy. ASPIC.*—Take a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and if they will not make your jelly stiff enough, add two calf’s feet; put them into a saucepan with a pint of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, boil and skim it well. Put to it two onions, two carrots, salt, parsley, scallions, four cloves, two bay leaves, and a clove of garlic ; let the whole stew for seven hours, then strain off the liquor or consomme. Break four eggs into a stewpau, and put to them the con- sommd when cold, the juice of two lemons, and two spoonsful of' tarragon, and beat it with a whisk over the fire till near boil- ing, and when it does so, remove your stewpan to a smaller fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour ; then pass it through a jelly-bag, or wetnapkin doubled, taking care to return back to the bag the first that runs out. If the jelly is not suffi- ciently clear, clarify it a second time. Put a layer of this jelly, about half an inch thick, at the bottom of an aspic mould, garnish it with truffles, whites of eggs, sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, pour in another half inch of the jelly, while liquid, with great care, so as not to discompose your garnish, then put either calf’s brains, breasts of fowl, veal sweetbreads, cocks’ combs, kidneys, fat livers, or game. Be sure to lay whatever you may use, as equal and smooth as pos- sible, then fill up your mould with jelly, and let it stand till set. When wanted dip the mould in hot water an instant, place your dish on the top and turn it over. This jelly may also be used much in garnishing cold things. Aspic (clear).*—Put a little mirepoi, a glass of vinegar, a little whole pepper, and a handful of tarragon into a saucepan, boil them to a jelly, and then dilute it with two ladiesful of fowl consomme; set it by the side of the stove, take off the fat; clarify it with an egg and a little cold water, and pass it through a double napkin. Put the aspick in a bain-marie. Serve it with blanched tarragon leaves cut in lozenges. It is used as a sauce for fowls, fried fish, &c. Aspic of Chickens’ breasts.*—I rim up four breasts of chickens seasoned with salt and pepper, and then leave them to cool. Put four ladiesful of veloutd, and four spoonsful of jelly into a stewpan, and reduce them to half; then add the yolk of an egg, a little shred parsley, a bit of but- ter the size of an egg; mix them all toge- ther well and pour it over the chickens ; when cold put them in the aspic mould in layers with cocks’ combs, kidneys, fillets of chickens dressed like the breasts, and put in cold ; dissolve your jelly, fill up tlio mould with it, and let it cool and set. Turn it out as usual. Aspic (little) ii la modern e*—Have ready eight small timbale moulds, two inches and a half in diameter, and three high ; fill and decorate them as the large aspic. Turn them out, and place one in the centre of your dish, six round it, and the eighth on that which stands in the centre, Garnish with a border of jelly, or coloured butter. Aspic Sauce.—Intuse chervil, tarragon, bumet, garden cress, and mint, in some cullis for about an hour; then strain, and add to it a spoonful of vinegar, garlic, pepper, and salt. Serve it cold in a sauce- boat.