EEL 236 EGG with a clean cloth, and serve with what sauce you please. Eel au SbleiL*—Cut your eels, when skinned, into pieces eight inches long, and cook them in a ready-dressed marinade; when done, lay them on a dish, cover them with marinade, and let them stand till cold ; then having beaten and seasoned four eggs, dip the pieces (cold) into it, take care that all parts are well covered ; roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them. Drain, and lay them on a dish, and serve with sauce piquante. Eels (Spitchcockcd).—Skin and cleanse your eel, slit open the belly, lay it flat, but do not bone it; cut it into pieces about the length of a finger, rub it well with the yolk of an egg; strew over it fine bread crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, chopped parsley; rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil it of a nice brown colour. Serve with anchovy sauce. Or you may do it whole, done with the above ingredients, turned round and skewered, then broiled, or roasted in a Dutch oven. Eel (Spitchcoched.)—Let your eel be large, split it down the back, and bone it, but leave on the skin, cut it into three or four pieces, broil them on a gentle fire, baste them with butter, vinegar, and salt; when they are broiled, serve them with butter and juice of lemon. You may, if you prefer it, do them over with egg, bread crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt ; drop clarified butter over, and then broil them : in this case take the skin off. Eel Soup.—To every pound of eels put one quart of water, a crust of bread, two ■or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover them close, and let them boil till half the liquor is wasted, and the fish is quite broken; then strain it off and toast some bread, cut it into dice, lay it in a dish, and pour the soup upon it. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour, rubbed smooth in it, Very greatly improves it. Eels (Stewed, or en Matelote).—Cut in pieces, and they may he either quickly fried in butter, or boiled fast for a short time in salt and water; and then dress with a good matelote sauce the same as carp, adding port wine to them. Eels (Stewed).—Cut your eels into pieces, pepper and salt them, put them into a small stewpan, with some good stock, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a bit of lemon peel, a glass of Madeira, stew these gently; when the eels are done enough, which will be in half an hour, or perhaps rather longer, take them out, and the onion, and the lemon peel; mix some' : flour with a little cream, boil this in the> , sauce ; add more wine if there is not suf- #• ficient, and Cayenne; squeeze in some: c lemon juice, put in the eels. Eels (Stewed) a l’Espugnole.—Stew the t If eels the same as en matelote, and dish them the same, but pour over them a good sauce i f| d I’Espaanole ; it will be better for having: j tt either truffles or mushrooms in it. Eel d la Tartare*—Skin and cut the 1 eels into pieces, five or six inches long; , make a sauce as directed for eel au four ; but before adding the white wine and sea- • soning, put some flour; when this is ; strained on the eel, do them up together a short time : let them cool, and then roll each piece in bread crumbs, dip them in eggs well beaten and seasoned ; bread them a second time, and a quarter of an hour before serving, broil them over a slow fire. Pour a sauce a la Tartare into a dish, and place the eels on it. Eels a la Tartare.*—Toss up some car- rots and onions shred, and some sweet herbs bruised in a little butter ; add a pinch of flour, white wine, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; let it boil for half an hour, then put it into an eel, skinned and cut in pieces ; when this is sufficiently done, take them from the fire, and let them cool; when quite cold, roll each piece in bread crumbs, and dip them in beaten egg ; bread them a se- cond time, and broil them over a gentle fire. EGGS.-—There are so many different ways of dressing eggs, that the recipes would almost fill a volume; we have, therefore, given such as we esteem the best, and the most adapted to the English taste. Egos dl' Allemande*—Roll a little but- ter in flour, and put it into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, powdered ginger, and par- sley ; add equal quantities of consomme and Rhenish wine ; let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, then pour it over some poached eggs, and set it over hot ashes for a short time. Egos with Anchories.—Take two or three French rolls, cut them into slices (not too thin), and toast and butter them; over them cross shreds of anchovies, put them on a dish, and before you serve them, lay a pouched egg on each toast. Eggs and Anchories in savoury Jelly. Take ten good anchovies, clean them, and