ORA 383 ORA them into clarified sugar (lukewarm), cover, and leave the flowers to imbibe the sugar for three or four hours. Orange Flower Conserve.—Boil half a pound of clarified sugar to grand plume, take it from the fire, and pour into it a dessert spoonful of orange-flower water; stir them together well, set the mixture on the fire, and when warm, pour it into shallow paper cases ; let it cool, and then cut it into cakes of any form you please. Orange Flower Cream.—Having boiled a pint of cream with the same quantity of milk, add some sugar, and a small quan- tity of salt, and when it boils, put in a good pinch of orange flowers ; cover, and continue to hoil until the cream is well flavoured with the flowers; then mix with it the yolks of ten or six eggs, according to the size of your mould, stir them over the fire, taking care not to let it boil; take it off, put in the clarified isinglass, and rub it through a silk sieve ; pour it into a mould or cups, which place in a pan, with a sufficient quantity of water to reach half way, cover, and put fire on the lid, to prevent the steam from dropping on the cream; when done, let it cool. If the cream is for cups, as many eggs must he put in as you have cups. Orange Flower Creme.* — Put five pounds of sugar into three quarts of pure water ; when the former is quite dissolved and has boiled, put to it a pound and three quarters of picked orange flowers, and pour it into a vessel, which cover very closely till cold, then add three quarts of Champagne wine, and the same of recti- fied spirits of wine ; leave it, and the next day filter and bottle it. Orange Flowers Fromage Bavorois.* Throw a handful of picked orange flowers into a pint of boiling cream, cover and let it cool; then (if the cream is sufficiently flavoured) strain, and mix it with another pmt of thick cream ; beat it over ice till it acquires the proper consistence; mix pounded sugar with some clarified isin- glass ; put this mixture to the cream, stirring continually; when of the proper thickness fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Orange Flower Gateau SouJZec.*—Take half a pound of fresh orange flowers picked and two pounds of fine sugar; put the’ white of an egg, and a small quantity of sifted sugar into a basin, and beat them to the consistence of cream cheese. Dissolve your sugar, skim, and in a little time add the orange flowers, and then boil the sugar to petit casse; take it from the fire, and put to it half a spoonful of the beaten egg; then, with a spatula, stir quickly round the sides of the pan ; the moment the syrup rises, cease till it falls, then stir again till it rises a second time, when it must be poured into moulds or cases (well oiled), and sift sugar over the surface. The juice of half a lemon added to the ingredients increases the whiteness of the gateau soujflee ; if, however, you wish it coloured, put a small quantity of the requisite colouring material into the white of egg whilst beating. Orange Flowers (Grillage of).*—Boil half a pound of sugar to la plume, and then mix with it a quarter of a pound of picked orange flowers, stir them well, and when the flowers have taken a good colour, squeeze over them the juice'of a lemon ; then put a layer of nonpareil on a dish, on which spread the grillage of orange flowers, then the nonpareil again, and so on alternately, until all your mate- rial is used, when put it in the stove to dry. Orange Flower Ice*—Dissolve three pounds of sugar in five pints of water; put a pound of well picked orange flowers into a large bottle or jar, pour the syrup on them, close the vessel hermetically, and let it stand five hours, then strain it in the sorbetiere, and ice it as usual. (See Ice). v Orange Flower Jelly Printannier au Caramel*—Having clarified three quar- ters of a pound of sugar, boil half of it to caramel; then take it from the fire, and add to it one ounce four drachms of fresh gathered orange flowers, stir them in with a silver spoon, and when quite cold, pom- on it two glasses of boiling water; then set the mixture on hot ashes till the cam- inel sugar is dissolved ; as soon as it is so, strain, and mix with it the remainder of the sugar, and an ounce of clarified isin- glass ; finish your jelly as directed. (See Jelly Printannier). Orange Flower Marchpane*—Take six ounces of orange flower marmalade, two pounds of sweet almonds, and a pound and a half of sugar; blanch and pound tho almonds to a very fine paste; clarify and boil the sugar to petit boulc, then add the almond paste and marmalade to it- stir them till of the proper consistence; and when cold, make your marchpane into calces, whatever size and shape you please. Orange Flower Marmalade*—Take a