per PER 408 Perch au Beurre.*—Having thoroughly cleansed and taken out the gills, put your perch into a stewpan, with a sliced onion, a carrot, a bay leaf, paisley, salt, and a little water. When done, drain them; take off the scales and skins carefully; place the fins at equal distances in the bodies, and serve them covered with a but- ter sauce. Perch (Boiled).—Put them into cold wa- ter, and let them boil carefully; serve with melted butter and soy. Perch ( Boiled).—Set the perch on in cold spring water, with plenty of salt; as soon as they boil, slum them well, and place them aside to simmer till done ; and serve them either with anchovy sauce, or with melted butter and soy. Perch in Court Bouillon .* — Having cleaned your perch and rejected the gills, wash them well in vinegar, and then put them into a saucepan, with some butter, sweet herbs, small white onions, and white wine; stew them till done; drain, and serve them dry, on a napkin folded, in a dish. Perch (Fillets of) fried in a Marinade. —Scale and cut off the fillets of six perch without any bone, and let them soak for ten hours in a marinade, half vinegar, half water, carrots, onions, a bay leaf, some peppercorns, salt, and a clove of garlic; a few minutes before you wish to serve them, take them out of the marinade, shake them in flour, and fry them quick in clear lard; when free from fat, place them on a dish, with good strong butter sauce under them, into which put a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar ; when very hot, pour it between the fish. Perch a la Gordiane.*—Scale, empty, and clean as many perch as you may re- quire, and soak them for five minutes in melted butter, with sweet herbs shred, salt, pepper, and pounded coriander; put the fish (with this marinade) into a jar, cover it very close, and set it in hot ashes; when you think the perch are about half done, add some good veal gravy, cover it as closely as before, and let it remain till the fish are done. Perch a, la Hollandaise. •—Thoroughly elean and wash the perch, then set them on the fire in half milk, half water, some salt, and a bit of butter ; simmer them gen- tly over a slow fire, and when done, drain off the liquor, lay them on a dish, with a sauce a la Hollandaise over them. Perch d la Polonaise.* — Clean three perch well, take out the gills and roes, in the place of which put carp roes; tie up their heads, and stew them in a light salt and water, with parsley roots and leaves, bay leaf, and lemon peel. When nearly done, take off the scales and skins; dip the fish in a Ste. Menehould sauce, and bread them; beat up the yolks of three eggs in a little melted butter, salt and pepper; dip the perch in this, and bread them a second time; broil them slowly, and serve with a tomata sauce. Perch au Restaurant.*■—Scale and clean your fish, and if large, soak them in hot brine, but if they are small, that is not necessary. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and keep stirring till it melts, then add some veal gravy or consommd, salt, pepper, vinegar, and your fish; stew gently till sufficiently done. Serve with the sauce poured over. Perch a la Vasse Fiche*—Take three or four perch, gut and clean them well; take out the gills and roes, and put some carp roes in their place, tying up the heads; put them into water slightly salted, with sliced carrots, parsley roots and leaves ; give them one boil only; then take out the fish, and mix with the sauce some well reduced veloute ; put the perch in again, give them another boil, and dish them, with the same sauce poured over. Perch au Water Suchet* — Cut some parsley roots into small pieces, which put in a sufficient quantity of water to boil what perch you may have ; add a bunch of parsley and some salt; when the roots are quite done, put in the perch (well scaled and cleaned) for ten minutes. In the mean time scald some parsley leaves in salt and water ; then drain the perch, place them in a tureen, with the parsley roots and leaves ; strain the liquor over it, and serve. Slices of bread and butter should be sent to table to eat with it. Perch with Iliac.*—Having scaled and taken out the gills, put the perch into a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and white wine, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two cloves, and some salt. When done, take out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dregs of which mix with some butter and a little flour ; beat these up, set them on the fire, stirring till quite done, adding pepper, grated nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy but- ter. Drain the perch well, and dish them with the above sauce. PERL1NGO.*—Take a pound and s half of sifted flour, and haring placed it_en your slab, make a hole in the middle ot it.