MIL MIL what falls on the paper and bake them in a slack oven ; when quite crisp take them out, turn them over with the paper, and take out some of the middle very gently with a spoon, and put them in the oven to ( dry, and bake that side. Keep in a dry place till wanted, then fill them with whipt cream well flavoured, or something acid; stick two together to form the egg, and send to table in a caramel basket, or any how you please ; occasionally they may be coloured red for a change. MIGNONETTE.—A mignonette con- sists of the long pepper, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, coriander, and mace, tied together, | in a bit of linen cloth. MILK PORRIDGE. —Make a fine gruel of half grits, boiled a long time ; I strain otf; either add cold milk, or warm j it with milk: serve with toast. Milk Porridge (French). — Stir some oatmeal and water together, leave it to stand till it is clear, then pour off the latter; pour fresh water upon it, stir it well, let it stand till the following day; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing; the pro- portion of water should be small. Milk (Potage of).*—Put on the fire some milk, with a little sugar, and a bay leaf; add, as soon as it boils, the yolks of three eggs, then take it off, and set it aside. Whip the whites of eggs to a snow, poach them in a little of the milk; soak your bread in the remainder, put it into the tureen, with the poached whites on the top, sprinkle them with sugar, and colour them with the salamander. Milk Punch*—Beat up two eggs well, mix them in a quart of milk, sugar, nut- meg, and lemon peel to your taste ; boil it gently, stirring it all the time till thick enough ; take it off the fire a very few minutes, then add to it a full quarter of a pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time the rum is pouring in, or it will not be good. Milk Punch.—Pare six oranges, and six lemons, as thin as you possibly can, grate them after with sugar to obtain the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy, stopped close for four and twenty hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and one quart of new milk, boiling hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag until it is quite clear: bottle anil cork it close im- mediately. Milk Punch for present Drinking.—To 349 two quarts of water, put two quarts of French brandy, a dozen and half of lemons, three quarters of a pound of double re- fined sugar, and three pints of new milk; strain it frequently through a jelly-bag, till it is clear and fine; it must be made two or three days before you use it, and may be bottled off. Milk Soup.-—-Take two quarts of new milk, with two sticks of cinnamon,'a cou- ple of bay leaves, a very little basket salt, and a little sugar; put all into a stewpan to warm; while heating, blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar ; mix them by degrees with some milk, and while heating, add to them the peel of a lemon, grated, and a little of the juice ; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and mix it with the milk that is heating in the stewpan, and let it boil up. Cut some slices of French bread, and dry them before the fire ; let them soak a little in the milk; lay them at the bot- tom of the tureen, and pour in the soup. Milk Soup Lie*—Put a quart of milk on the fire, and when it boils add to it sugar to your taste, a pinch of salt, and four eggs, keep it on the fire, stirring till you find it thicken and adhere to the spoon (the milk must not boil) ; cut some verv light bread into pieces, soak them in the usual way, substituting milk for broth, pour the soup over and serve. Milk Soup au Safran* — Scald and drain some rice, put it into a quart of boiling milk, adding six grains of saffron in powder; let it boil over a slow fire for an hour and a half, and then serve it quite hot. Milk Vinegar.*—Put six spoonsful of good brandy into a large bottle full of milk ; cork it well, anil expose it in a warm place for a month, opening it occa- sionally on account of the fermentation ; at the end of that time the milk will have become very good vinegar; strain it through a cloth, and keep it in bottles. Milk Water.—'Take two handsful of wormwood, the same of carduus, ditto of rue, ditto of angelica ; mint and balm, of each four handsful; cut them a little, put them into a cold still, and add to them three quarts of milk ; let your fire be quick till the still drops, then slacken it: you may draw off two quarts ; the first quart will keep all the year. MILLET Pudding. — Wash three spoonsful of the seed ; put it into a dish with a crust round the edges ; pour over