MUT 358 MUT i Boast it, and haste it with half a pint of red wine ; when you have used up all the wine, finish hasting- with hutter. Have a little good gravy in readiness, and when the mutton is done, set it upright in a dish, pour in the gravy, prepare sweet sauce, the same as for venison, and send it up to table -without any garnish. Mutton Broth.—Take two pounds of scrag of mutton, take out the blood by putting it into a stewpan, and cover it with cold water; and when the water is lukewarm, pour it off, skim it well; then put it in again with four or five pints of water, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of grits, and an onion; set it on a slow fire, and when you have taken all the scum olF, put in a few turnips, let it simmer very sloivly for two hours, and strain it through a clean sieve. Mutton Broth.—Cut a neck of mutton into pieces, preserving a handsome piece to he served up in the tureen; cleanse it as directed above ; put all into a stewpan with three quarts of cold beef-stock, or water, with a little oatmeal mixed in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut in pieces, and a small hunch of thyme and parsley. When it boils, skim it clean, and -when nearly done, take out the piece you intend to serve in the tureen, and let the other pieces stew till tender; then have ready turnips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a cabbage, some paisley, all cut small, and some marigolds ; wash them, strain the liquor off’ the meat, skim it free from the fat, add it to the ingre- dients with the piece of mutton intended for the tureen, adding- a little pearl barley, ready boiled. Season with salt, simmer all together till done, and serve with toasted bread on a plate. Mutton (Currie) Caboh.—Cut the lean of a loin of mutton in neat square pieces, free from skin and fat, and put them on silver attlet-slcewers j slice a dozen large onions, blanch them in boiling water, strain them off, put them into a stewpan, with some chopped mushrooms, three large tablespoonsful of curry-powder, and a quar- ter of an ounce of pounded mace, a little salt, and a spoonful of stock ; simmer this for two hours, and then rub it through a hair sieve ; lay the skewers ot mutton in a stewpan and pour the puree of onions on them, cover them close, and simmer slowly for three hours, taking care it does not bum; put the skewers of mutton on the dish, and pour the sauce over them. 1 his, if well made, is an excellent dish for those fond of Indian cookery. A little garlic may be added sometimes. Mutton Caboh (Winchester).—Bone a loin of mutton that has the whole flap on, cut off nearly all the fat, and brush it over with eggs ; take four handsful of bread- crumbs, and mix with them the grated rind of two lemons, a nutmeg grated, pep- per, salt, pounded mace, parsley, thyme, and shalot chopped fine ; strew this thickly over the mutton, roll it up, crumb it like- wise outside, skewer it, and tie on the spit; roast it gently an hour and a half. If it gets too brown, put paper over it. For sauce, reduce half a pint of port wine, with some chopped shalot, to half the quantity, add three spoonsful of espugnole, or cullis, a knob of sugar, Cayenne, and salt, and serve under the cabob. Mutton (Capilolade of.')*-—Cut the re- mains of a quarter of mutton into pieces, put them into a pan with salt, pepper, nutmeg, white wine, stock, and a dessert- spoonful of olive oil; when about half done, add to it two ounces of raspings, cover the saucepan close, and let it boil slowly for three or four hours; then pour it on a dish with its liquor and the juice of a Seville orange. Mutton Chops in disguise.—Take as many chops as you choose, and rub them with pepper, salt, and a little parsley; roll each chop in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered on the inside, and rolled on each end close ; have some hog’s lard or beef-dripping boiling in a frying- pan ; put in the steaks, fry them of a nice brown, lay them in your dish, and garnish with, fried parsley, throw some all over them, and have a little good gravy in a sauceboat; but take great care that you do not break die paper, nor have any fat in the dish, but let them be well drained. Mutton (to collar a Breast of.)*—Take off the skin, bone, and gristle, from a breast of mutton; then grate white bread, cloves, mace (a small quantity,), pepper, and salt, die volks of three eggs bruised small, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; make the meat flat, strew the seasoning over it with four or five anchovies, washed and boned ; roll the meat up as a collar, bind it with a coarse tape, and broil or roast it, cut it in three or four pieces, and serve it up with a good thick gravy ; fne oysters, or forcemeat balls, are an im- provement. It is very good cold, cut in slices, like collared beet. Mutton Collvps.—Take all the lean from a leg of mutton that has hung some time;