POR 439 POR tremely small, some parsley, thyme, a , small quantity of sage, and shalots, cut very fine, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; it should be stuffed pretty thick, and served with good gravy in the dish. Apple sauce should be served with it. Pork Chops (Broiled).—Broil them in the same manner as mutton chops, but they require more doing. Put a little , good gravy to them, and strew over a little sage, shred very fine, which very : much improves the flavour. Pork Chops en Ragout*—Cut a loin or ■ neck of fresh pork into chops, and stew them with a little stock, a bunch of herbs, 1 pepper, and salt have ready a veal sweet- i bread, parboiled, and cut into large dice ; put it into a stewpan with some mush- i rooms, the livers of any land of poultry, i and a small quantity of butter, set it on the fire with some flour, a glass of white Ewine, a little gravy, and a little stock ; add salt and coarse pepper, a bunch of l parsley and green onions, a clove of gar- . He, and two cloves ; let the whole boil, ! and reduce to a thick sauce, and serve it i' over the chops ; or you may dress the li chops in the same manner as the ragout, i and when rather more than half done, add the sweetbread, livers, and mushrooms. Pork Cutlets.—Take a loin of pork and skin it, then divide it into cutlets; strew over them some parsley and thyme, cut small, with pepper, salt, and grated bread; broil them of a fine brown; have ready some good gravy, a spoonful of ready- made mustard, two shalots shred small; boil all these together over the fire, | thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour; if agreeable, add a little vinegar. Serve the cutlets in a hot dish, with the sauce poured over them. Pork Cutlets (Broiled).—Cut the pork ’ drops the same as veal cutlets, leaving a little fat on them; beat them to flatten them into a good shape ; broil them, and when thoroughly done, serve with a sauce !' Robert, or gherkins. Pork Cutlets with red or white Cabbage. —Take a back piece of pork, cut it into cutlets, beat and triin them, season with pepper and salt, gently broil them till done; they must be of a nice light brown colour. Serve them on red or white cabbage stewed. Pork Cutlets another way. —Cut the cutlets from the fore loin, neatly trim them; chop an onion fine, fry it lightly in three ounces of butter, sprinkle the cutlets with i pepper and salt, dip them into the butter, then into bread crumbs, shape them pro- perly with your knife and fry them of a nice brown colour ; serve with tomata or Robert sauce. Pork (Fillet oJ“) roasted.—Take a piece of ba6k pork, cut the chine bone from the under part, and let it lay in a marinade all night; when to be roasted, run a lark-spit through, tie it on another spit, cover it with paper, and roast it gently ; and when to be served up, if not coloured enough, glaze it lightly, and serve it with a sauce Robert underneath. The skin should be off. Pork (Neck of) rolled. — Take a neck of pork and remove out all the bones ; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and a few berries of allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and let it roast slowly, placing it at first a good distance from the fire. Pork (Leg of) barbicued. — Put a leg of pork before the fire to roast, put a good deal of red wine into the dripping pan, and baste it well all the time it is roasting ; if there is not enough port at first, add more; it will take about three pints; cut the skin from the bottom of the shank in rows of an inch broad ; raise every other row, and roll it to the shank; have ready a pint of strong gravy, and add to it a pint of red wine, a couple of anchovies, a bundle of sweet herbs, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and pounded fine, with a quar ter of a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, and two spoonsful of ketchup ; let the gravy and wine be well boiled together, and the anchovy with it; strain these off, and add the other ingredients ; let them boil a few minutes ; froth the pork, take it up, pour part of the sauce over it, and put the rest into a boat; if not thick enough, add some roux. Pork (Leg of) boiled.—Take a leg of pork that has been in salt eight or ten days ; when it is to be dressed, weigh it ; let it soak for half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up ; as soon as it boils, skim it, and so continue. Allow water enough. It should be boiled in a cloth, nicely floured, this adds much to the delicacy of its appearance. The pork should be small, and of a fine grain. Serve peas pudding and turnips with it. Pork (Leg of) broiled.—Skin part of the fillet, cut it into thin slices, hack it on the back with a knife, then season with salt and pepper, sage and thyme, minced small; then broil thorn on a gridiron, dish them. ,