MIN 350 MOR it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, add two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, shred lemon, and a very little gin- ger and nutmeg, grated: as you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs, beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. Millet Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, and spread it at the bot- tem of a dish, then put in six ounces of millet, with a quarter of a pound of sugar; pour over it three pints of milk, and bake it. MINCE Pie.—Weigh two pounds of scraped beef, free from skin and strings ; of suet, picked and chopped, four pounds ; then add six pounds of currants, nicely cleaned, and perfectly dried; three pounds of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nut- meg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of pimen- tos, in the finest powder; mix the whole well together, and put it into a pan, and keep it covered in a dry cool place. Have some citron, orange, and lemon peel, ready; and put some of each in the pies when made. Mince Pies without Meat.*-—-Take a pound of currants, a pound of apples, chopped fine, a pound of moist sugar, a pound of suet, well chopped, a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped small; the juice of four Seville oranges, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg, and mace, according to taste, and a glass of brandy ; mix all well together, put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. i* Mint (Creme of).*—Put into the bain- marie alembic, a gallon of brandy, twelve ounces of fresh gathered mint, and the rinds of three lemons; distil from this two quarts of liqueur, in which dissolve one drachm of essence of mint; put a pound and half of sugar into two quarts of water, and when entirely dissolved, add the syrup to your liqueur, strain and bottle it. Mint (Distilled Liqueur of).*—Take two handsful of fresh gathered garden mint, and infuse it for some days in a gallon and a half of brandy, and a quart of water; then distil it as usual. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water, mix the syrup with tho liqueur, and run the whole through ajelly bag. Mint (Essence of Jelly).* — Put three quarters of a pound of fino sugar into a preserving pan, and when nearly boiling, throw into it twelve drachms of fresh gathered mint, and tho rinds of two lemons; cover it and leave it to get luke- warm ; dissolve half a drachm of essence of mint in a glass of tepid water, add half a glass of kirschenwasser, mix these with the lukewarm sugar, and an ounce of cla- rified isinglass, also lukewarm ; strain the whole through a silk sieve, and finish as usual. Mint (Green Vinegar). — Take half an ounce of mint, dry and pound it, pour over it a quart of the best vinegar, and let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day. Mint (Orange TFafer).—Take a still full of orange mint, distil it in a cold still, and put fresh orange mint into the water distil it again, and put your bottles into the still unstopped; a spoonful of this water put into "a glass of spring water will perfume it as well as orange flower water. Mint Sauce.—Take nice fresh mint, chop it small, and mix it -with vinegar and sugar. Mlnt (Soufflces Franfuis).*—Take some fresh gathered mint leaves, put them, with the rinds of two lemons, into the milk, when nearly boiling ; strain and finish as usual. See Soufflees Franfais. Mint Water.—Take four pounus of dried mint, two gallons and a half of proof spirits, and three gallons of water distil them, and sweeten the water with a pound and a half of sugar. MIRLITONS.*—Put into a pan; two yolks, and two whole eggs, four ounces of powder sugar, three ounces of sweet macaroons crushed, half an ounce of crisped orange flowers in powder, and a grain of salt; stir these together a minute, then add two ounces of melted butter ; whip the two whites very firm, and put them also to the preparation. Line thirty tartlet moulds with puff-paste, into each of which pour an equal quantity of the above ; cover them with sifted sugar, and when tliat is dissolved, strew over a little sugar, a la grcle; and put them into a moderate oven : serve either hot or cold. Moon Game, see Moor Fowl. MORELS.*—The morel is a kind of mushroom, and is usually dressed in the same manner. For a ragout or garnish, they are prepared as follows: Haiing taken off their stalks, split the largest morels into two or three pieces; wash and put them into a basin of warm water to free them from the sand and earth; then blanch, drain, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and lemon juice, give them a few turns, and moisten with either brown or white sauce.