r DUC 228 DUC nnd stew them. When clone, take off the fat, and servo with their own gravy. Duck dressed in different Ways.—Take either a large duck, or two ducklings, which truss like a fowl for boiling; put it into a pot (just about large enough to hold the duck) with thin slices of bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, salt, onions, carrots, a head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a bay leal; when done, take out the duck, wipe the fat off very clean, and serve with what sauce or ragout you choose, such as sweet- breads, green pease, turnips, chestnuts, olives, cucumbers, or any sort of stewed greens, according to the season. Ducks (Fricasseed) .—Quarter them, beat them well, dry them well, fry them in fresh butter; when they are almost done, put in some onions shred small, and a little thyme; add a little claret, tlnn slices of bacon, parsley, and spinach, boiled green, and shred small. Break the yolks of three eggs into a dish, with a little pepper, and some grated nutmeg, toss them up with a ladleful of drawn butter; pour this over the ducks, lay the bacon upon them, and Duckling (Fricasseed).—Cut the duck- lings into small pieces, dry them, flour them, and fry them m butter ; then take a little canary, some parsley, nnd onion chopped small; a little whole pepper, and a blade of mace; add to these some sugar butter, and verjuice ; then pick the stalks off from a good handful of clary, make a batter of three or four eggs, flour, and cream, with a little nutmeg ; fry these, and having placed your duckling on a dish, pour the fried clary, &c. upon them, and ""DUCK (Fillets of) and Tnfes.*-lWv- inc cut your fillets, toss them up n a little butter, with parsley and shalots, shred fine. Take a dozen of truffles soak them in white wine, nnd slice them, ” a layer of the fillets into a stewpan, then a layer of the sliced truffles, and so nn nlteroatelv (strewing small pieces of freW butter on L truffles), until all your materials are used ; cook them over a s ow fire till done, when place them in the disli for table; pour white wine and consomme, of each half a glass, into the same stew- pan boil them together for about a quarter of an hour; skim, and then pour it over the fillets. - _ Ttnne a duck, into dice; do the same with truffles, real sweetbreads, breast of fowl, and bacon; cook these over a gentle fire, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, add the yolks of three eggs to thicken it, stir it well, and then put it in the skin of the duck, giving it the form of a balloon or oval, fasten up the ends, and cook it like a fricandeaux over a slow fire ; reduce the gravy that it yields to a jelly, and glaze your duck with it, and add to the sauce consomme, veal gravy, &c. Duck (Hashed).—Cut a duck in pieces, and flour it; put in a stewpan some gravy, a little port wine, shalots chopped fine, salt, pepper, and a bit of lemon; boil this; then put in the duck, toss it up, take out the lemon, and serve with toasted sippets. Duck hashed in different'Ways.—Roast a couple of ducks till they are three parts done, and let them cool; then cut the breast in thin slices, taking care to pre- serve the gravy; the legs will serve for another dish, which you may dress by wrapping them in a cowl with a good farce, and serve with cullis sauce; for the slices you have cut from the breast, cut cucumbers, and marinate them about an hour with a little vinegar, salt, and one onion sliced; then take out the onion, squeeze the cucumbers in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, a little stock, flour, and veal gravy; boil slowly, skim it well, take out the ham, and then put in the duck to warm, without boiling. T ou may like- wise do the same with chopped truffles or mushrooms, or any thing else you may think proper, according to the season. A cold roasted duck will answer much the same purpose for this dish. Duck in Hotch-pot.*—Cut a duck into quarters, and stew it into a small pot, with some turnips, the quarter of a cabbage, parsnips, carrots, and onions sliced (all parboiled), some good stock, a bit of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind left ou, a hunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the whole is done, put the duck into a tureen, and the vege- tables round it; skim the fat off die liquor in which the vegetables were stewed ; add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, which must be served over the duck. Duck (Fillets of) <i hi N a incite. —11ut the fillets from two or three young ducks, about two thinis roasted, taking care to collect the gravy, and put it into a stew- pan ; add to it half a glass of white wine.