SHR of the abovementioned seasoning, lay a case the feet are only previously boiled, and then served with cream sauce. SHERBET. * — This is a delicious .beverage, composed of cream, mixed with various articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, coffee, chocolate, &c., and sugar, and then iced. Sherbet may also be made with the juice of various fruits, sweetened to the taste; for the method of preparing which, see the different articles it is usu- ally composed of. When the liquid is suffi- ciently limpid and cold, pour it into a sil- ver or tin sorbetiere, and ice it as usual. (See Ice). SHRIMPS. — Shrimps are chosen by .the same rules as prawns. Snimcps to Butter. —(See the recipe to Butter Prawns.') Shrimps in a Gralin.—Take one or two quarts of shrimps, according to the size you wish your dish ; pick, and toss them in good Mchamelle, with a little lobster spawn pounded and mixed in it, as directed for lobster sauce; make the whole very hot, and add the squeeze of a lemon, then lay it on a dish, and strew' crumbs of bread over it, the same as for other gratins; colour it with the salamander before it is served to table. Shrimps (to grill).—Stew the shrimps in a little water, with salt, pepper, and shred parsley ; butter some scallop shells, put in some grated bread, on which lay the shrimps, cover them with bread, add a little more butter ; set them on a gridiron for a short time, hrown them with a sala- mander, and serve. Shrimp Pie. — Take a quart of nicely- picked shrimps, and season them with two or three anchovies minced very fine, and mixed with some salt, mace, and a clove or two (should the shrimps be very salt, that article must be omitted in the season- ing). Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, then lay in the shrimps, and add a glass of sharp white wine. The paste for this pie should be light and thin. It does not take long baking. Shrimps (Potted).—Let them be nicely boiled, then pick them out of the shells, and season them well with pepper, salt, a little pounded cloves, and a little mace; put them closely together into a pot, and set them for about ten minutes in a slack oven, and when cold, pour over clarified butter. Shrimp Sauce.—Put half apintof picked shrimps into a stowpan, with some butter sauce, and a very little essence of anchovy; 475 SKA make it very hot, add a little lemon juice* and serve it to table. Shrimp Sauce.—Mix a good piece of butter with some flour, boil it up in a little rich gravy; put in the shrimps nicely picked; give the whole one boil. Whether you use water or gravy to make the sauce of, it is a great improvement to pound the shells of the shrimps and boil them in it first, and then proceed as above. SHRUB. * — Put a quart of Seville orange juice to a gallon of rum, with three pounds of lump sugar, and a handful of the peel pared extremely thin; let it stand in the cask for three months, then filter it through a cloth, and bottle it. Siirub.*—Take a quart of orange juice, strain it, put to it two pounds of lump sugar, four quarts and one pint of rum; put half the peels of the oranges into the rum, and let it stand one night, then mix the rum with the orange juice and sugar, put it into a vessel which has a spigot, shake it four or five times daily till the sugar be all dissolved; when it is clear, which may be in about a fortnight, bottle it offfor use. If the oranges are very ripe, a pound and half of sugar is sufficient. SIBERIAN Crabs (to preserve).*—Take their weight in sugar, make a syrup with apple jelly; when well boiled, prick the crabs and put them into it; let them boil a :few minutes, then take them out, put them on a sieve to drain; when nearly cold, put them again into the syrup, boil it a few minutes more, and drain them as before; do this a third time, observing the same rules as at first; then put them into glasses or jars, and pourthe jelly over them, boil- ing. SIPPET Pudding.—Cut a small loaf into extremely thin slices, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of marrow, ot beef suet, a layerof currants, and then a layer of bread again, &c., and so continue until the dish is filled ; mix four eggs, well beateu, with a quart of cream, a nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over; set it in the oven, it will take half an hour baking. SKATE.-When good, they are very white and thick; if dressed too fresh, they are hard and unpleasant to the taste ; they should, therefore, be kept a day or two, but not long enough to produce an unpleasant smell. Skate (Boiled).—Put it into a fish-kettle with cold spring water and plenty of salt; as soon as it boils, set it aside to simmer gently till done, and serve it on a fish-plate with anchovy sauce in a boat.