SAU 472 SAU heavy weight on it. In four or five days’ time draw out the peg, and let the brine run off; add more salt, and repeat this ope- ration at intervals of a month at latest, until what flows from the cask is perfectly clear, and free from smell. Some add juniper and carraways to the salt in making saur- krant; be careful to keep the cask in a moderate temperature, during the whole year. Saur-kraut.— Prepare your cask, and slice the cabbages as above ; put the lat- ter into a tub to ferment for some hours (not less than twelve, nor more than twenty-four) ; then make a hole at the bottom of the tub, and press the cabbages hard, to extract all the liquor from them ; when quite dry, put a layer of salt at the bottom of the cask, on which put a layer of the cabbages, on this more salt, pepper, and a few ripe juniper berries; proceed thus alternately until the cask is nearly full; put on a piece of wood, exactly fit- ting the inside of the cask, on which place one hundred and twenty pounds (or more) weight on it. In a few days the brine will form a crust on the top of the cask, when the kraut is fit for use. On taking it out, use a wooden spoon only; merely leave sufficient brine to cover the saur-kraut; lay a wet cloth all over to exclude the air, and then replace the lid and weights. The top of the cask should be frequently washed with salt and water, and part of the brine be drawn occasionallv. Saub-kbaut (to dress).*—Take out as much saur-kraut from the cask as you think sufficient for a dish, and soak it for two hours in cold water; then drain, and put it into a stewpan, with some slices ot streaky bacon, a servelas, and sausages ; add stock, and a little good gravy. Stew it over a slow fire, and serve with the bacon, &c. on it. The skins must be taken from the sausages and servelas, before they are sent to table. SAUSAGES.*—A re composed of various kinds of meat, chopped exceedingly small, with pounded spices, and aromatic herbs, shred fine ; these ingredients are put into skins, or guts (thoroughly washed), and tied into lengths of from two to five inches. Some persons add to the mixture a glass of Rhenish, Champagne, Madeira, or other wine. (For pork, beef, and other sausages, see the respective articles.) SAUSAOEs(Ro/eg?in).*—Take thelegs and shoulders of a pig, from which cut all the lean, scrape it well, remove all the sinews, and rub the meat well with a seasoning made of salt, pepper, coriander, cloves, cin- namon, and bay leaf. When properly fla- voured, take some bacon, lard, and leaf, and cut the whole into dice ; mix the fat and lean together, and put it into ox guts, tie up the ends, and lay the sausages in a pan of water, with salt, and saltpetre; cover the pan close and leave it. In a week’s time take out the sausages and drain them. Tie them between two pieces of wood, hang them up to dry, and smoke. W hen dry, untie them, and rub each over with oil, and the ashes of vine twigs, mixed together. Keep them in a dry place. Sausages of Marchpane*— Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, which put on a tin plate, and place it over a stove to dissolve; as soon as it is so, put it into a pan with a little water, stir it well, and then mix it with a pound of marchpane paste, a small quantity of red santal, half an ounce of cinnamon, and six or eight cloves (all three in powder). When well kneaded together, chop up some blanched almonds, which strew over the slab, roll out your paste on them so that they may stick to its surface, to represent the pieces of fat, and cut it into pieces the length and thickness of sau- sages ; place them on white paper, and leave them for some days to dry, and then bake them in a very moderately heated oven; if they be put in too great a heat they will burst. Sausages au Palatin.* — lake equal quantities of beef steaks, fresh pork, and leaf; pound these together thoroughly, pour on the pounded meat some good Moselle or Rhenish wine ; in about an hour drain off all the wine which has not been sucked up, season with salt, pepper, spices, and ginger, all in powder, and fill your skins as usual. Sausages (Parma).*—Mince equal quan- tities of veal, fresh pork, and leaf; take also on equal portion of Parmesan cheese grated ; mix these articles together, season them with salt, pepper, spices, and corian- der (all pounded) ; fill your skins and tie them into lengths of about three or four inches, and dress them as usual. Sausages (Proven$ale).—Take a pound of fresh pork, half a pound of veal, half a pound of leaf, three onions, and six cloves of garlic ; mince and mix all these dients together, add a dozen truffles boiled in a little white wine, and shred, salt, pepper, and spices, and put the mixture into skins. . ,, .1,. Sausages (Papal). — Mince sina meat of a partridge, a capon, or pu >