CHE 143 CUE Cheese (Iced) of any sort of Marmalade. —They are made in the same manner as cream cheese iced; when the cream and eggs are well mixed, and a sufficient quan- tity of what marmalade you please, to give it a proper taste of the fruit desired. Cheese (Marigold).—Pick the freshest and best-coloured leaves you can, pound them in a mortar, and strain out the juice. Put this into milk at the same time with the rennet. The milk being set, and the ; purd produced, break it as gently and as | equally as you possibly can, put it into j the cheese-vat, and press it with a gentle weight, there being such a number of holes in the bottom part of the vat, as will let ; the whey easily out, or else let there be a : spout to carry oft' tbe whey, though holes will be the best. They must be finished i the same as all other cheeses. Cheese (Cream) a, la Montmorency *— Boil a pint of cream with two ounces of : sugar; when it boils, take it oft’ the fire, < and let it cool; when cool, put in half a I tea-spoonful of orange-flower water. Whip 'i the cream, and as the cream thickens take it oft with a skimmer, and put it on a j basket (with a fine cloth laid over it) ; K continue to whip until there is no longer i any cream remaining; let it drain, and ![ serve it on a plate. Cheese en Neige.—Put into an earthen pan three pints of very thick cream, about l; the size of a large pea of gum adraganth " (in powder), and _a little grated young- : lemon peel; whip the cream" well, and as the froth thickens, take it oft’with a skim- mer, and put it in a small osier cheese- ', basket. If the basket is not closely made, put in the bottom of it a bit of muslin, or fine linen. When the cream is all whip- ped and skimmed, let the cheese drain ; turn it over into a deep dish for table ; su- gar it, and serve. Cheese Paste.—Make a paste with a cream cheese and flour, a little butter, three orfour eggs'(both yolks and whites), and some good cream; you must judge of the quantity of flour, according to the quan- tity of cheese, and the consistence you would have the paste. CnEESE Plombiere*—Take a quarter of a pound of sweet, and four bitter almonds, beat them to a fine paste, which put into a 1 Pint of boiling cream, having previously infused in it two pinches of crisped orange flowers ; pour this cream on nine yolks of egg3, and three quarters of a pound of powder sugar; place it over a gentle fire. stirring it constantly until it begins to thicken, and taking great care not to let it boil; pass it through a bolting, and when cold put it in a sabotiere, aud ice it; when, about half set, add a small Chantilly cheese; then finish icing it, and when wanted for table, lay about a dozen orange or ivy leaves on a dish, lay the cheese on them like a rock, drop apricot marmalade over it, here and there, and serve it. Cheese (Potted).—Beat three poundsof the best Cheshire cheese in a mortar, with half a pound of best butter, a large glass of sack, near half an ounce of mace beaten and sifted; mix it well, pot it; pour over it clarified butter. Cheese (Potted).—Add to a pound of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese three ounces of cold fresh butter a little sifted mace, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. Mix all well in a marble mortar, put it into small pots, cover it with clarified butter, and set the pots in a cold dry place. Cheese (Pounded).—Take a pound of good mellow Cheddar, Cheshire, or North Wiltshire cheese, cut it into thin bits ; if the cheese is dry, add to it three ounces of fresh butter; if it is tolerably moist, two ounces of butter will be sufficient; pound and rub them well together in a mortar tiU it is quite smooth. Spread on bread, it makes an excellent luncheon or supper, kou may, if you please, pound with it curry powder, ground spice, black pepper, Cayenne, and a little made mustard ; and' moisten with a glass of sherry. If pressed down hard in a jar, and covered with cla- rififed butter, it will keep for several days in cool weather. J : ■ CnEESE to preserve sound.—Wash it in warm whey, wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. If you wish it to ripen, put it into a damp cellar, which will brin^ it forward. When a whole cheese is cuf, the larger quantity should be spread in- side with butter, and the outside should be wiped to preserve it. To keep that which is in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrapped round the cheese when carried' from table. Cheese Puffs.—Beat in a mortar half a pint of cheese curd (strained from the whey) very fine, witli a spoonful and a half of flour, three eggs, leaving out two whites, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it rather sweet. Lay a little of this paste in very small round cakes, on a tin plate.