VEN 519 VEN then dust pounded ginger over every part; this is a good preventive against the fly. When to be dressed, wash it with a litcle lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper should also be added to keep it. Venison (Breast of).—Either roast or try it; put some gravy into a stewpan, vith a little flour, red wine, currant jelly, and a little lemon juice; boil these together; put in the venison, let it heat, without boiling, and serve. Venison in Gallops.—Cut part of a haunch of venison into collops, which beat vith the back of a knife, and lard them with small lardons; shred some time, par- sley, and other sweet herbs; mix them with suet chopped fine, salt, pepper, cloves, autmeg, and the yolks of eggs ; spread this farce over the collops, roll them up, tie them round, and roast them; place a dish under them to receive the gravy, pour claret into it, and when the collops are nearly done, put the dish on hot ashes, with grated bread, vinegar, cinnamon, and a little sugar; stir them together, add a ladleful of clarified butter, put in the col- lops of venison, and serve very hot, with a sauce made as follows : Take of claret, water, and vinegar, a glass each ; put into them an onion stuck with cloves, two or three anchovies, a spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and of cloves also: give the whole a boil, and then strain it. Venison ( Hashed).—Warm it in its own gravy; if there is no fat left, take some slices of mutton fat, set on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, and let it sim- mer till dry; then add it to the hash. 'V enison (Hushed).*—Take some ancho- vies, boil them till they are dissolved, then add some oysters with their liquor, a little milk, some red wine, and a little ketchup; put in your venison, let it warm in this, but do not let it boil, and serve it with fried sippets, and the sauce, &c. over it. Venison Pasty, to be sensed hot.—Bone a breast of venison, bent it flat, cut it in large pieces, season it thoroughly, and lay it in a stone jar, and pour over it some drawn beef gro-vy; lay the hones on the top, then put the jar in a saucepan of water over the fire, and let it simmer for three or four hours, then set it in a cold place till the following day ; then lay a puff'paste, tolerably thick, round the edge of a deep dish, lay the meat in the dish, having- first taken oft' the cake of fat from the top ; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, and allspice; pour in part of the liquor, add some port wine, eg'g the bottom paste, and lay on a thick top paste ; trim and egg it, and let it hake rather more than an hour in a moderate oven ; reduce the remainder of the liquor with half a bottle of port wine till very strong, add a little Cayenne, and pour this into the pasty- just before serving. Venison Pie or Pasty. — All kinds of meat intended for pies and pasties must be highly spiced when served hot, and still more highly spiced when served cold; hut the seasoning must be regulated by judgment and taste. Take one or two breasts of venison (according to the size you wish to make your pie or pasty), bone it thoroughly, beat it very flat, and lard it through and through with large lardons, well seasoned with all sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chopped ; roll it up as tight as possible, and tie it up with strong twine. Put into a stewpan the hones and trimmings of the venison, with carrots, onions, parsley, one clove of gar- lic, thyme, bay leaf, peppercorns, and all- spice, and let all stew till nearly dry; fill it up with equal quantities of beef or mutton braise, and water, which let boil very gently till done, then pot in the roll of venison; put paper on the top, cover very close, and let it stew gently with fire over and under. When sufficiently done, take it off the fire, and let it stand in the liquor until nearly cold ; then prepare a plain paste of four pounds of flour to one pound of butter, the same as for raised pie, but instead of making it stiff’, mix it as soft ns possible ; lay part of this paste as thick as you well can round the edge of the dish; cut off the twine from the ve- nison, skin, and lay it in the dish, and and pour some of the gravy it has stewed in ; put on the cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in the top, do it over with egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three or four hours ; reduce the remainder of the liquor it was stewed in, and whoa the pie is baked, pour it in; serve it cold. The past y can scarcely be made too thick. Venison (Potted).—Put the venisoninto a pan, and pour red wine over it, and cover it with about a pound of butter; put a paste over the pan, set it in the oven, and let it be well baked ; when done, take the meat out of the gravy, heat it fine with the butter that has risen to the top, add more if necessary; season with pepper, salt, and mace pounded; put it into pots, set them in the oven for a few