MAC MAC 340 moulds may be varied in any way your fancy may dictate. MACKEREL {to Choose).—Their gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, and the whole fish stiff and bright; if the gills are of a faint colour, the fish limber and wrinkled, they are not fresh. They are in season in May and June. Mackerel {Boiled).—Boil them in salt and water, with a very little vinegar. Serve with fennel sauce and coddled goose- berries. Mackerel with Black Butter.*—1 he mackerel for this dish should he dressed according to the directions for mackerel grilld; dish them; then put a piece of butter into a frying pan, and when it is quite hot, fry some parsley in it, and pour them over the fish ; heat up some vinegar, and pour that over also. Mackerel {Broiled or Fried).—They may he broiled or fried, and are extremely good either way, stuffed with crumbs of bread, parsley chopped, lemon peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mixed with yolk of e°'g ; anchovy sauce and fennel sauce, Mackerelcji Cailles.—Cut two or three mackerel, each into three pieces, give them a few turns over the fire in butter, with parsley, slialots, mushrooms, pepper and salt, then wrap each piece in a vine leaf, with a piece of bacon and some of the sea- soning ; lay them on a baking dish, pour the remainder of the seasoning over, put them in the oven ; when nearly done, take them out, cover them with bread crumbs; replace the dish to finish the baking. Serve w'itli wine sauce. Mackerel {Collared).—They may be done in the same manner as eels are done, only the sage should be omitted, and sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and lemon peel, substituted in its place. Mackerel, en Compote.*—Prepare the mackerel, cut off the tails, and put them into a small saucepan well buttered, with any common fish you may have, and an- chovy and white wine ; braise them in this ; when done, serve them with their own liquor. Mackerel (to Dry).—Theymustbe very fresh. Gut and wash them very clean, cut off their heads, split them down the back, and lay them quite flat; bang them by their tails to drain; they should be hung in a very cool place. Strew some salt at the bottom of a pan; sprinkle the fish thoroughly with salt, lay them in the pan, belly to belly, and back to back ; let them lie in the salt twelve or fourteen hours, then wash the salt off clean, and hang them up to drain for half an hour, pepper the insides a little, and lay them to dry on stones laid aslant towards the sun ; take care never to let them be out when the sun is not upon them, nor till the dews are dispersed, as the stones they are laid upon should be warm and dry. They will be perfectly- cured in a week; hang them up by their tails, putting their insides together, in a dry place, but not in any smoke. They should'be either filed in boiling; oil, or broiled on or before a very clear fire, and basted with oil on a feather. No sauce will berequired, for if they are good, they, will be very moist and mellow ; if they should be dry, you may serve with a little melted butter and parsley, or crimped i parsley. Mackerel, {Broiled).—Split your mack- erel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and lay a sprig of fennel in them. . Broil them gently, and when ready to serve, take out the fennel, and put in its • place a mixture, made with fresh butter, chopped parsley, green onions, pepper and salt; add plenty of lemon juice. Mackerel {Fillets of) Saute.—Cut the fillets the whole length of the fish, take off : the skin, trim and put them into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions 5 shred small; pour a little melted butter r over, and set them on the fire, moving the pieces about lest tbey should adhere to the pan, turn them very carefully, and do the other side. Take a good bit ot butter, a ladleful of veloute, the yolks of three eggs,. the juice of two lemons, salt, whole pepper, a ravigotle chopped small: stir it over the fire (but without boiling) till the right consistence, then pour it over the fillets. Mackerel {Filletstf) Saute a l Italienue. The fillets being taken off, cut them in two, taking off the skin, and put them into a cutlet pan (previously toss them in egg, and rub over with bread crumbs), with cla- rified butter, a little water, the juice of half a lemon, and a sprinkle of salt; saute them over a moderate fire, and when done, put them between two plates, to drain the liquor from them; place them on the dish in the form of a star, and pour over them some good Italienue sauce. Mackerel {Fillets of) to he served cold. —Saute and dish the fillets, the same as the fillets saute a Vltalienne, but let them stand till cold, and before they are wanted, pour over them a remouladc sauce, or they raa) be served in a salad, the same as salmon. Mackerel a la Flamande. C oo