CAR CAR li’i stewpan in which you have put your carp, mid. season the whole with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; then put it to boil over a brisk tire for half an hour. When ready to serve, put some pieces of toasted bread in the sauce. t When the carp is done without any other fish, it is called stewed ; the manner of dressing it is exactly the same. Carp minced.*—Clean some small carp, skin them, and take out the bones; mince the flesh with parsley, shalots, salt, pep- per, and nutmeg; melt some butter in a stewpan, and put your mince into it; let it stew for a quarter of an hour, then moisten it with soup maigre, and let it stew till done. Dish it with pieces of fried bread all round. Carp Pie.—Scrape off the scales, and gut and wash a large carp clean. Boil an eel till almost tender; pick off all the meat, and mince it fine, with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, a few sweet herbs, lemon peel cut fine, a little pepper, salt, and nut- meg grated ; an anchovy, half a pint of oysters parboiled, and chopped fine, and the yolks of three hard eggs cut small : roll it up with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fill the belly of the carp. Make a good crust to cover the dish, and lay in the fish. Save the liquor of the eels, put into it the eel bones, and boil them with a little mace, whole pepper, an onion, some sweet herbs, and an anchovy, till reduced to half a pint; then strain it, add to it a quarter of a pint of white wine, and a piece of butter about the size of a hen’s egg, mixed in a very little flour. Boil it up, and pour it into the pie ; then put on the lid, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. Carp, Polish Fashion.—Cut a carp into large pieces, and slit the head in two ; put it into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, slices of onions, bits of carrots, parsley, green shalots, thyme, laurel, whole pepper, and salt; soak it a little while ; then add a pint of beer, and a good glass of brandy; when done, strain the sauce, add a bit of butter, roll it in flour, and the juice of a Seville orange ; reduce the sauce pretty thick, and serve upon the fish. Caiip Ragout.*—Draw and scale your carp, then broil it with stuffing over it, then cut it in pieces, put it into a stewpan with some butter, parsley, onion, mush- rooms, all chopped up, n pint of white wine, some salt, and pepper. When it is sufficiently stewed, serve it with a thick sauce. Carp en Redin gate*—Clean your carp, cut off the tail and fins, stuff it with a farce, made according to your own taste, f | cut it on the back, and rub it well all over | with fresh butter ; then strew it with I bread crumbs and chervil, chopped fine, and worked with butter ; cover it with a sheet of paper, and wrap it up; cook it over a moderate fire in a large pan. Serve it with what sauce you please. Caiip rousted.—Stuff a carp with a farce made of butter, bread crumbs, fine spices, J capers, anchovies, parsley, and green sha- J lots, all finely chopped ; lard it with fillets of fresh anchovies, first soaked" to take out the salt; tie it to a skewer, and then fix it to the spit; cover it over with two or three doubles of paper, well buttered, and baste it with white wine, boiled with some butter, two laurel leaves, and one clove of garlic ; serve with what sauce or ragout you think proper. Carp a la Savanah.*.—Take some live carp, cut- them in fillets, and wipe them with a cloth dipped in brandy ; cut them into pieces of different sizes, and put them into a stewpan with two or three dozen of small onions, which have been previously half dressed ; season with salt, pepper, laurel, and lemon peel; pour over it a sufficient quantity of wine to cover your fish, let the whole boil quickly for two hours, then add some pieces of fried bread. When the fish is quite done, and the sauce reduced, pour the whole into a large dish, and serve it very hot. Canr Sauce.—Cut up a carp in large bits, and put it into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two onions, one carrot, and half a parsnip; soak it till it catches a little ; then add a glass of white wine and good broth, a little eullis, a fagot of parsley, cliibbol, a clove of garlic, two of spices, anil a laurel leaf; simmer gently for mi hour, skim it very well, and strain it in a sieve. Carp stewed*—Melt a piece of butter, worked up with some flour in a stewpan; when it is a little browned, mix with it a glass of soup maigre, and add some small onions, cut in slices ; then put in your carp, season with salt, pepper, laurel, and add a pint of red wine ; let it boil slowly till quite done, and the sauce is reduced; then serve. Carp steu-ed*—Scale and clean your carp, cut it in pieces ; brown some butter with a pinch of flour, put in some small onions ; add butter, parsley, cliibbol, sha- lots, thyme, laurel, mushrooms, grated