EGG 239 crumbs; fry them, and serve with fried parsley. Eggs fried in Balls.—Take a deep fryiugpan, and three pints of clarified butter, heat it as hot as for fritters, stir it with a stick till it runs round very quickly; then break an egg into the mid- dle, and turn it round with the stick till it is of the consistence of a poached egg; the whirling of the butter will make it round like a ball; then take it up with a slice, and put it into a warm pipkin, or dish ; set it leaning before the fire to keep hot; they will keep half an hour, and yet he soft, so you can make as many as you please ; you may serve them with fried or roasted collops. _ Eggs (Frothed).—Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four (set aside the remaining whites) with a spoon- ful of water, some salt, sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; fry this, and then put it on a dish ; whip the four whites (which were set aside) to a froth with sugar, and place it over the fried eggs ; bake it in a Dutch oven, or with a high cover fitted for the purpose. Eggs and Gherkins.* — Take some pickled gherkins, and having washed them in several waters, mince them very small, toss them up in a little butter, and then, simmer them in a gravy or o’ood stock. Pound the yolks of some hard- boiled eggs with cream, salt, and pepper, mix them with the gherkins, and set the whole on the fire, and reduce it to the proper consistence. Eggs (Small) au Gras.*—Take two dozen eggs, and boil them till they are hrm, but not hard ; take the yolks and pound them to a paste, with a little flour and some fowl gravy ; dip your hands in uour, take a piece of the paste and roll it in the shape of an egg, but no bigger than a filbert; when all your preparation is used, have ready some boiling water m winch is a little lemon juice and salt! throw in the balls for a minute or two to dishes ’ an<1 US0 ham t0 garnish y°ur Egcs au Gratin. Mix together some bread crumbs, butter, a chopped anchovy, parsley, scallions, and shalot, all shred small, and the yolks of three eggs; nut his on a dish that will bear the fire, set t over a gentle one till the gratin adheres to it, then break eight eggs on it, season Jem with salt and pepper, keep it over mandeV 8uffic,.ently llone i P^s a sala- mander over, and serve. EGG Eggs (Gratin of) with Cheese*—1'ake some grated bread, Parmesan cheese, also grated, a small piece of butter, the yolks of two eggs, nutmeg, and pepper; mix these together, and spread them over the bottom of a dish, set it over a gentle fire to make a gratin, on which break ten eaos > sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the surface, finish cooking it, and brown it with the salamander. Eggs with Gravy.—Poach some ego-s in water, with a little vinegar in it; cut the whites round nearly ; lay the eggs in a dish ; pour into the dish some clear re- lishing* gravy. Eggs (Hashed).—Boil eggs hard, slice them, fry an onion, sliced in butter ; put in the eggs, a little good gravy, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Serve them hot. Eggs a l’I nip trials—Take some breast of fowl and partridges, parsley and bread soaked in cream, and pound these to°-e- ther, season them with salt and pepper, add the yolks of four eggs ; spread this mixture over the bottom of a dish, and break eight eggs on it; cover them with bread crumbs, set the dish over hot ashes, and salamander the top. Eggs a la Jardiniere.*—Cut four or five large onions into pieces, and put them with some butter into a stewpan ; set them on the fire, and when the onions are done, add a pinch of flour, a pint of milk, salt and pepper; boil this till thick, then take it from the fire, and put in ten eggs, beat them all up together, pour it into a dish tor table, and finish the cooking over a stove. Pass a salamander over the top to colour it. v Egcs and Lettuce.—Scald some cabbage lettuce, and squeeze them well; then slice them, and toss them up with butter • season them with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; then set them over a gun tie fire in a saucepan, with butter- and let them stew for half an hour ; then skim off the fat, and add to them a fish cullis ; then lay them in dishes. Poach some eggs in butter, lay the eggs upon thei lettuce, and serve them on plates. .JiGCS wjth M Livers.*—Fry a dozen pieces of bread (each large enough to hold a poached egg) in lard, and lay them n a dtsh. Make a farce with fat livers o7thL ’ Td nJUtmeS- Put some of this on the bread, and place on each a poached egg, cover the whole with the .farce bread, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve it over veal or fowl gravy. Ego Marmalade*—Clarify a pound of