CIII CHI 160 quarter of a pint of cream, four ounces of butter, and a little flour ; stir it over the fire till the butter is melted ; then put the chickens in again, add some grated lemon peel, pounded mace, lemon juice, salt, and mushroom powder. Shake all over the fire, and servo very hot. Chickens (Cold.) fried,—Cut the chickens into quarters, and rub each quarter with the yolk of egg. Mix some bread crumbs with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and shred parsley, cover the chickens with this, and fry them. Thicken some gravy with flour, and add to it Cayenne pepper, mushroom powder or ketchup, and a little lemon juice. Serve the chickens with this sauce. Chickens en Fviteau*—Cut the chickens in pieces and put them into a marinade of sweet oil, lemon juice, vinegar, salt, pep- per, chopped parsley, and sliced onions. In about two hours drain them, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them. Place them on a dish, with the slices of onion on the top, and fried eggs above them. Make a sauce of oil, lemon, parsley, and tarragon chopped, salt, pepper, and garlic. Chicken Fritters.—Make a batter with four eggs, some new milk, and rice flour; to this add a pint of cream, powder sugar, candied lemon peel cut small, fresh lemon peel grated, and the white parts of a roasted chicken shred small; set all these toge- ther on a stove, and stir well for some time ; when done, take it off, roll out the mixture, cut it into fritters, and fry them; strew sugar on a dish, lay on the fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them hot. Chickens (Galantine of).—Bone a nice plump chicken very carefully, cut some ham and truffles into slips of an equal thickness, and as near of a length as pos- sible ; cut the chicken also into fillets, and add a few slices of veal; form a sort of bed of these in the skin of the chicken, so that when cut the slices may be chequered ; season with all sorts of spices; close the skin, form it of a proper shape; sew up the back, and stew it, covered with slices of bacon, and parsley, onions, thyme, a bay leaf, a clove, a little spice, carrots, two onions, and some slices of veal; then mix a little broth, and a small quantity of calf’s- foot stock. When the jelly has boiled an hour take it off, and let it cool in the liquor. If this dish is served hot, pour over it any brown sauce; it is, however, better served cold ; take some of the liquor, beat the whites of two or three eggs, and mix them with the cold jelly, after having skim- med off the fat; then put the whole over the fire again, and stir till the liquor is white ; then let it boil gently; next take j the jelly from the fire, and lay it aside, i with a cover and fire over it; when quite ; ■ clear, strain it through a cloth, and let cool, to be used when -wanted. If served cold, more pepper and salt must be used ; gar- is nish with this chopped fine. Chickens a la Gtnoise.*—Bone two . plump chickens, and fill them with a stuff- ing made of fat livers, sixancliovies, truf- fles and small onions, all chopped very small. Soak them in oil with lemon juice; finish them in veal gravy, and add some morels and artichoke bottoms. Chickens ait Gatin.—Cut cold roasted chickens into pieces, and simmer them for a quarter of an hour in a few spoonsful of cullis, half a glass of white wine, butter, chopped parsley, shalots, mushrooms, and season with salt and pepper. When done, place on a dish, with half the sauce and bread crumbs under them; set the dish over the fire till it catches at the bottom, then serve with the rest of the sauce. Chickens (Grenade of).—Line a mould, ribbed like a melon, with thin slices of bacon; cut some fillets of chickens ; lard half of them with bacon, and the others with truffles ; lay them alternately in the ribs of the mould, and place between each a previously cooked lamb’s sweetbread; cover the whole with a farce fine ; put a salpicon in the centre; cover that also with the farce; stick it with forcemeat, and put the mould either in the oven or the bain- marie. When done, turn it out; dry the larded slices with the salamander, and glaze them; when of a light brown, un- cover the rest, glaze them slightly, and serve with espagnole. Chicken Haslets.*—Cut a cold roast chicken into pieces, and put them upon skewers like a haslet; dip each into egg, beaten up with salt, pepper, parsley, and onions, chopped; strew bread crumbs over; dip them in butter again, bread them a second time, and broil; baste them occasionally with a little oil. Serve them with or without sauce. CmcKENSa la Garnis.—Prepare chickens as for roasting, and having given them a turn or two over the fire in a little butter, with the addition of lemon juice to pre- serve their whiteness, take them out and wipe them very clean ; peel a large onion carefully, and cut it in thin slices, so as to preserve the rings, of which take two or three, dip them in white of egg, plac« —J