203 CRE CRE it for use, put in a little butter, some parsley just scalded and chopped line, salt, whole pepper ; then thicken the sauce over the lire. This maybe used with all kinds of dishes that are done white. Cream Sauce.—Put a dozen line white ! mushrooms into a stewpan, with two or three stalks of parsley, a bit of butter, and a little salt; stir them over a moderate fire, and when the butter begins to fry and look clear, shake in a little flour, but be careful not to make it too thick ; then add some good consomme, and reduce it to the 1 thickness of bichamelle sauce ; then add cream, and pass it through a tammy. Cream Sauce.*—Put into a saucepan a j quarter of a pound of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of parsley, and the same of scallions, both chopped ; small; a pinch of salt, a little coarse pep- per, and a nutmeg grated ; mix these well, and then add a glass of cream or milk : set it on the fire, and stir it till it boils ; if it be too thick, add a little more cream; this sauce should boil and be kept stirring for a quarter of an hour. Cream ( White) Sherbet.*—Put the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert-spoonful of | orange-flower water or crisped orange flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, and boil it up once in a covered saucepan; then pass it through a sieve, add to it three quarters of a pound of pow- der sugar, and as soon as it is perfectly dissolved, pour the whole into a sorbetiere, \ which place in an ice-pail, and proceed to i cool it as directed. See Sherbet. Cream Snow.—Mix a quart of cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten it with sugar and rose water, and strain them ; then beat up the cream with a bun- dle of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; and as the snow rises take it up with a Spoon in the cullender, that’the liquid part may run out: when you have taken off as much of the snow as you please, boil the ■rest of the cream, with a stick of cinna- mon, some cloves, and a little bruised ginger; boil it till it is thick ; strain it, and when it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your snow upon it. CnEAM Snow*—lake a pint of fresh cream, and mix with it eight spoonsful of powder sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, or any other aromatic ingredient you liko better; whip it, and remove the froth or snow in the usual way. This cream may be co- loured according to your fancy, with snf- Iron, carmine, or indigo. Cream (Spanish).—Take three spoonsful of rice flour, sifted very fine, the yolks of three eggs, three spoonsful of orange- flower water, and mix them well together; then put to it one pint of cream; set it on a good fire ; keep it stirring till it is of a proper tliickness, and then pour it into cups. Cream Sweetmeat. — Take some good cream, and slice some preserved peaches, apricots, or plums, into it; sweeten the cream with fine sugar, or with the syrup the fruit was preserved in ; mix all well together, and put into your basin. Cream (Syrup of)—May be jweserved the same as cream (see receipt for keeping- cream), in the proportion of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream; keep it in a cool place for two or three hours ; then put it into one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful in voyages. Cream Tart.—Put into a stewpan two spoonsful of tine flour, with the yolks of six eggs, reserving the whites of them.; Mix the flour in a quart of milk, and season’ it with sugar and a stick of cinnamon J keep it stirring with a ladle, and put in a good lump of sugar; the cream being half done, put in some grated lemon peel, some preserved lemon peel, shred small, and some bitter-ahnoncl biscuits; let the whole he thoroughly done; when ready, let it be cold, then put an under crust of puff pastd in a baking-pan, with a border of paste, and put your cream over it; mix it with some orange-flower water, and the whites of eggs, beat up to a froth : take care not to over-fill your custard; and let it be done, either in the oven, or under the covet of a baking-pan, with fire under and over. When ready, and glazed with sugar, serve' it up hot. Cream Taffaty.—Beat the whites of eight eggs with rose water, to a froth; put them into a quart of thick cream, skimming it as it it rises ; boil it, and keep it conti- nually stirring. Then having beaten up the yolks of eight eggs, take your cream off the fire, and slip in the eggs; stir them in. Sweeten with sugar. Cream Toast.—Take a pound of French rolls, slice them, crumb and crust, as thick as your finger; lay them in a silver dish ; put to them half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pint of milk; then strew sugar and beaten cinnamon overthem ; turn them often till they are soaked tender, but not so tender but you may turn them without