CAB 95 CAB stirring it very frequently whilst dressing, to mix it well with the butter. Cabbages (lied).—They are mostly stewed to eat with ham, bacon, or smoked sausages, though sometimes without any meat; they are very strong eating, and , should be first scalded, then stewed with butter, pepper, salt, and cloves; and vine- gar- added to it just before serving : they are reckoned wholesome in veal broth for consumptions; but are most proper for pickling, as gherkins, &c. . Cabbage (Red) u la Flamande.*—Take ' two red cabbages, cut them in quarters; take out the hearts, and cut them in pieces, i blanch them, then put them into cold fvater, after which put them into a stew- 1 pan with a piece of butter, a bay leaf, an ' onion stuck with cloves, some salt and 1 pepper ; stir them about, so that the cab- l bage may be well mixed with the butter ; I place your stewpan on the fire, put fire j upon the lid of the stewpan, and let it simmer for three or four hours ; turn the i cabbage frequently, and be careful not to Jet it burn; when the cabbage is done, , take out the bay leaf and the onion ; add a 1 little more butter, and serve hot. Cabbage (Red) pickled.*—Take about a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, and put ; into a little bag, and boil it with as much vinegar as you think sufficient for the cab- r bage, with a little salt and bay salt; when it boils, scald the cabbage with it, then boil it up again, and put a little ginger and ' pepper into it; then put it in something to cool; when cold, put the cabbage into jars, and put the pickle upon it, and tie it down. j ■ Cabbage (Red) stewed.—Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage; wash, and put it into a saucepan, with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew- till quite tender; and when going to serve, add two or three Spoonsful of vinegar, and give one boil orer the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Cabbage (Red) stewed.— Shred the cab- ! bage ; wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and I a ll.ttle Plilm STavy. When quite tender, and a fow minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonsful of vinegar, and boil up. Cabbage (Red) slewed.'.—Cut the cab- ! ,aSe ve.r.V thin, and put it into the stew- 1 pan, with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a : pmt ot broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stow covered three hours. When it is very tender, add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted : then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. Cabbace (Red) stewed.—Take a fine red cabbage, cut it into tbin slices crosswise, and then into small bits ; put them in a stewpan, w-ith a pint of rich gravy, a pound of sausages, and three or four slices of ham or bacon ; cover the stewpan down close; set it on a moderate fire, let it stand half an hour, then uncover it; skim off the fat, shake in some flour, put in two spoonsful of vinegar, and cover it up ; set it on again, and let it stew four or five minutes longer; take out the sausages, and pour the rest over them. Cabbage (Red) Syrup of.—Cut and wash a large red cabbage, put it into a stewpan and boil it in water three or four hours, till there remains no more than a pint of liquor; put the cabbage into a sieve, squeezing it till your have expressed all the juice; let it settle, and pour it off clear; then put a pound of Narbonne honey into a saucepan, with a glass of water; let it boil, skimming it often; wdien the honey is very clear put it in the cabbage juice, and boil them together till of the consistence of syrup, like all others. Cabbage Salad.—Boil a Savoy cabbage in waiter; drain, and dress it as you would a salad, with salt, pepper, some Provence oil, and vinegar, adding one or two ancho- vies, and a few capers : it may be served either hot or cold. Cabbage Soup.—Put into your pot a few pounds of sliced beef and bits of ham ; let it catch a little, then add weak broth or water, and all sorts of roots, a cabbage tied and well scalded, a bit of pickled pork, and a bay leaf. If you would garnish this soup with any wild fowl, boil it in the same pot, and garnish the tureen with the cabbage and the pickled pork, cut in pieces. Cabbage Soup.—Cut your cabbage into four parts ; then let them be about three quarters enough boiled in water; then take them up and squeeze them dry from the water; then place them in a large brass pan or dish, so that there may be room be- twixt each pieco of cabbage to take up soup with a large spoon, then lot them boil up with as much gravy or stock as will cover them. Let them stew for two hours before dinner, then put a quarter of a pound of butter, aud a handful of flour.