436 POR POR will cover them, set them on the fire, and when perfectly soft, press the pulp through a sieve, and then strain it. Boil this jelly with the juice of two or three pomegra- nates, that of one orange, and one lemon, and the rind of each grated; strain it again, and to every pound of jelly add a pound and a quarter of fine sugar, boiled till it cracks; colour it with cochineal; pour it into glasses, talcing off the scum before it becomes cold. Set them in a stove, and when the top is dry, turn them out, and put them to dry again ; then cut them into whatever forms you please, put them into the stove or oven to harden, then lay them on sieves, and when tho- roughly dry, place them in bores, with paper between. As they are apt to be- come moist, they should be looked at frequently. Pomegranates (Transparent Jelly oj Take the seeds from five very fine pome- granates, from which extract the juice by pressing it hard through a horsehair sieve ; filter this juice, and mix it with some syrup tinged of a rose colour, with a little cochineal; add the isinglass to this, and finish as usual. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.') Pomegranates (Syrup of)." Take five very ripe large pomegranates, extract the seeds, which must he very red ; crush, cincl put them into u skillet witli lmlf ft pint of water; set them on the fire till soft, and then squeeze the juice through a new coarse cloth; clarify a pound and a half of sugar, and boil it to souffle ; then add the juice, boil them together to the usual consistence of syrups. It must not he bottled until quite cold. This number of pomegranates will yield a quart ot syrup. , . . PORK (to choose).—If the pork is fresh, the flesh appears cool and smooth : if tainted, it is clammy; the knuckle, in general, is affected first. There is a kind of pork called measly; when in this state it is extremely unwholesome to eat; hut you may easily discover when it is measly, the fat being impregnated with small ker- nels. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily ho impressed hv the finger, it is old Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best, The prime season for pork is from Michael- mas to March. Bacon-hogs and porkers are cut up dif- ferently. Hogs are kept to a larger size; the chine, or backbone, should he cut down on each side, the whole length, and is either boiled or roasted; the chine is considered the prime part. The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut out with very little meat to the bone. There is a large spare-rib on each side, which is generally divided into two, one sweetbone, and one bladehone. The bacon is the whole out- side, and contains a fore-leg and a ham ; the latter is the hind-leg, hut if left with the bacon, it is called a gammon. There are also the griskins. Hog’s lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs ; their flesh is whiter and less rich, hut not equally tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter consists of the spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or neck, the spare-rib and griskin. Ihe hind con- sists of the leg and loin. A variety of nice dishes may he made of the feet of pork; they should he cut off before the legs are cured. The same may he observed with the ears. The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair; and is sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. Pork (Bladehone of). — It should he broiled, and when nearly done, peppered and salted. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spooniul of mustard, and serve it very hot. The bladehone is taken from the bacon- hog ; the less meat left on it, in modera- tion, the better. Pork Cheese.*—Take a pig’s head, and having boned it, cut all the meat into rather thick slices; do the same with the ears; separate the fat from the lean, and mix the whole with bay leaf, thyme, basil, sage, parsley (all shred fine), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spices, the peel and juice of a lemon ; lay the skin of the head open over a salad-howl; arrange the pieces in it, intermixing with them a little leaf, tongue, a Vicariate, and truffles; when all are put in, wrap the skiu round them ; sew it up very tight, and dress it as directed for hog’s head; when sufficiently done, take it from the fire, and whilst warm, put it in a mould to give it any shape you may desire. . « Pork Cheese (Italian).*—Pound a pigJ liver, with two thirds bacon and one 'lurd leaf; when they are thoroughly incorpo- rated, add to them shred thyme, sage, basil, hay leaf, parsley, coriander, spices, ,a™ S (pounded), grated nutmeg, salt, an P P