piece of gammon, and other bacon, and a bit of leg of real ; shred also some parsley, i chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these altogether, and season with pepper, salt, !' beaten spice, and garlic; bind the whole with the yolks of six, the whites of two, eggs, and a little cream ; when thoroughly mixed,roll the preparationintothickpieces, which wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal, well beaten with a rollingpin : each sausage should be about the thickness of a man’s wrist, and of proportionate length. Line an oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin beef steaks, put in the sausages, cover them with beef steaks and bacon, shut the stewpan very close, and set it on a moderate fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it stand ten or twelve hours ; then take it off, and when cold, take out the sausages carefully, remove the veal, and all the fat, with a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve cold. SAVOY Soup.—Cut into quarters and boil in a little water, five large savoys ; strain the water off when they are cool, press them well to drain out all the water, then put them into as much beef gravy as will cover them, cover them very close, and set the saucepan on a moderate fire, and let it stew for two hours ; then set on the fire a large ffyingpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; shake in some flour, and stir till it is brown; peel a couple of onions, put them into the butter and stir it well about ; as soon as they are nicely coloured, add a quart of veal gravy, mix them well together ; soak some crust of French rolls in the gravy in which the savoys are stewed, lay them in a tureen at Ia little distance from each other; then pour in the gravy and onions. SCOTCH Shortbread. * — Take two pounds of flour, dry, and sift it well; then mix with it a pound of powder sugar, tj three ounces of candied citron and orange j peel cut into dice, and half a pound of car- r| raway comfits ; put half a pound of butter into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when ; quite melted, mix it with the flour, &c. ; i the paste being nicely made, roll it out to }the thickness of half an inch, cut it into cakes, lay them on white paper, prick and I bake them; they should be of a pale colour. Scotch Dumpling.—Make a paste with [j some oatmeal and butter, form it into a 'i dumpling, and place a haddock’s liver in if the middle, well seasoned with pepper and It salt ; it should be boiled in a cloth. SCUBAC.*—Infuse two ounces of saf- i fron, the zestes of four lemons, those of as many oranges, and a drachm of mace, in three gallons of brandy, for a week, keep- ing the vessel closely covered ; at the end of that time distil it. Dissolve ten pounds of sugar in a gallon and a half of water, stir it into the liqueur, and then filter it. Your liqueur made as above, will be very white and clear. If, however, you wish it of a yellow tinge, after the sugar is dis- solved, and the syrup is cold, add tincture of saffron to it; the quantity regulated by the degree of colour you wish. SEEDS (Sugured).*—These are done in the same manner as sugared almonds. The seeds most generally used for this purpose are anise, cummin, and fennel. The best method of proceeding is as follows : Place a small preserving-pan over a charcoal fire, on the side of which have a chafing-dish, on which keep a pan with a quantity of sugar boiled to lisse (this sugar should be kept quite hot, but not boiling) ; on the other side have some fine powder. When so far prepared, put your seeds into the pan, and as soon as they begin to heat, pour over them a large spoonful or two of the syrup ; stir them about, that all may be thoroughly saturated with it; then sprinkle over it a handful or two of powder, still shaking the pan to make the seeds equally white. When dry, pour on some more syrup, then the powder, and continue this alternately until your seeds are sufficiently large ; then lay them on a sieve, keep them in a warm place for some days, after which put them into glass bottles. SERVELAS.*—According to the num- ber of servelas you intend making, take your quantity of fresh lean pork, mince it small, and mix it with a fourth part of bacon fat (also minced). Season with salt, pepper, spices, nutmeg, anise, and coriander; fill your skins like sausages, tie the ends, and hang them in the chimney to smoke for three days. Then put them into a saucepan of water, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, basil, and a bunch of parsley ; boil them in this for three hours ; drain, and let them cool. Stn velas of Marchpane*—Takoa pound of marchpane paste coloured red as for Marchpune Sausages, and three quarters of a pound of the same uncoloured; cut both into small irregular pieces, mix them toge- ther, and put them into skins the same as the regular servelas ; take particular care that tlie guts are well cleaned, perfectly dry, and transparent; press the pieces in close that they may be quite firm; and