ORA ORA 377 end of the orange opposite the stalk, suf- ficiently large to take out the pulp, seeds, and juice ; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp ; rub the oranges over with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. Be careful to save the bits you cut out of the oranges. Boil the oranges in fresh water until they are ten- der, changing the water to take out the bitterness. In the mean time, make a thin ! syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil them up, turning them round that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to I cover them, and let them remain in it till they are to be served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set it over the fire; mix f it well, and let it boil; then add a spoon- Iful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of butter, and stir over the fire to thicken ; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the 1 syrup in the dish. Put the pieces which i were cut out of the oranges at the top. Orange Cheesecakes. — Blanch eight ( ounces of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and beat and sift half a pound of sugar, and melt a pound of butter very carefully without oiling (the butter must be nearly cold before you use it for your cheesecakes), then beat the yolks of ten and the whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one (having previously boiled out the bit- terness) in a mortar, till as tender as mar- : malade, without any lumps ; then mix the - whole together, and put into patty-pans. Oranges (Compote of.')*—Cut them in j small pieces, and boil them in water until they are tender, then change them into cold water; next make a syrup with one ' glass of water and four ounces of sugar, ii and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently j over a slow fire for half an hour; serve ■I cold. Oranges (Compoteof.)*—Take as many n oranges as you may require, pare them ‘I neatly, cut them into quarters, which (as 1 you take out the pips) throw into cold } water; then scald them, and when thev |i appear soft, throw them again into cold ' water ; in the mean time boil some sugar 1 to petit lisse, put the oranges in, and having : given them several boils together, set them 1 to C0°I- When quite cold, take the fruit out of the syrup, and put them into com- potiers; boil the syrup a few times, and as 1 soon as it cools, pour it over the fruit, ti Oranges (Rate) Compote of.*—Cut the upper part of six good oranges, so that you can put them together again so as to appear whole ; pierce the pulp in several places with a small knife, and fill the in- cisions with fine powder sugar and a little brandy; then replace the pieces you have cut ofl, and serve the oranges in a dessert dish. Orange Cream.*—Pare the rind of a Seville orange very thin, squeeze the juice of four oranges, put it with the peel into a pan with a pint of water and eight ounces of sugar, beat the whites of five eggs, mix all together, set it over a slow fire, stir it one way till it looks thick and white, then strain it through a gauze sieve, stirring it till cold, then beat the yolks of the five eggs very fine, and put it into the pan with some cream ; stir it over the fire till ready to boil, then pour it into a basin, stir it till quite cold before you put it into glasses. Orange Cream (Frothed.)—Make a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the fire, let it just boil, put the juice of a large orange into a small deep glass, having previously steeped a bit of orange-peel for a short time in the juice ; when the cream is almost cold, pour it out of a tea-pot upon the juice, holding it as high as possible. Orange (Croque en Bouches of.)*—Pare a dozen fine oranges, and divide each into twelve pieces, all of the same size ■ scrape off every particle of the white, without breaking the thin skin which contains the juice ; when all are done, dip each piece into some sugar boiled to cassc (and lightly coloured), and place them in a plain mould of six inches diameter, and five in height; the first row inclined one way, the second the reverse way, and so on ; lay them at the bottom in a star. As soon as the mould is full, turn it out, and serve it with all possible expedition, as the moisture of the fruit dissolves the sugar so rapidly, that the croque en bouche is liable to fall to pieces. Orange Custard.*—Having boiled the rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat it in a mortar to a fine paste ; put to it the juice of a Seville orange, a spoonful of the best brandy, four ounces of loaf- sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat them all well together ten minutes, then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling croam ; keep beating it till cold ; put it into custard glasses. Set them in an earthern dish of hot water ; let them stand till thoy are set, then stick preserved orange, or orange chips, on the top. It may be sorved hot or cold.