into a boiler, with fifteen pounds of lump- GODARD.—This is the same as Ra- sugar, aud the whites of eight eggs well beaten and strained; mix all well together while cold ; when the liquor boils, slum it well; put in half a pound of common white ginger bruised, let it boil twenty minutes. Have in readiness the rind of seven lemons (the rind must be very thin), and pour the liquor on them; when cool, tun it with two spoonsful of yeast; to a quart of the liquor put two ouncesof isinglass-shavings, while warm; whisk it well three or four- times, and pour all together into the barrel. Next day stop it up ; in three weeks bottle it; and in three months it wrill be fit to drink. GLACE (Royale)*—Put the white of a new-laid egg into a pan, and mix with it a sufficient quantity of white powder sugar to make a glace or icing, neither too dry nor too liquid; beat it well, and add a little lemon juice to whiten it. By mixing with this glace, carmine, saffron, indigo, spinach juice, &cc., it will be either rose-coloured, yellow,blue, green, &c., according to your taste. GLAZE.* —Take the remains of any liquor in which meat has been cooked, and strain it through a silk sieve until quite clear; then put it into a saucepan and re- duce it over a brisk fire : as soon as it is sufficiently done, that is, when it sticks to the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie; when wanted, add a small piece of fresh butter to it. Glaze.*—Make a consomme with what- ever remnants of fowls or meat that may be in the house; strain it, and then put it on the fire with two or three whites of eggs beaten; stir till it boils, and then set on the side of the stove, and place fire on the saucepan lid; as soon as the eggs are set, pass the glaze through a wet cloth ; reduce this over a large fire, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its stick- ing ; then pour it into a pot for use. When wanted, put a small quantity of it into a saucepan, and make it hot over a slow fire; and in this state, lay it gently over such articles as may require glazing by means of a feather, or brush. Glaze of Roots*—Fill a saucepan three parts full of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions (have the largest quantity of the two latter); four or five cloves may also be added, and veal, if you think proper; moisten the whole with stock or water, boil your vegetables over a gentle fire, and proceed in the usual manner. gox'xt Financiere, only it serves to garnish a sirloin of beef. You then add pigeons, gautiers, and larded sweetbreads; keep your sauce thin. GODIVEAUTake fillet of veal (or breasts of fowl or game), fresh pork (or sausage-meat), be6f marrow or suet, equal quantities of each, veal sweetbreads, truf- fles, and mushrooms; season these articles with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all in powder; pound them all together, and put in (one at a time) the yolks of eggs; pour in also a little water, pounding continually, until it is reduced to a sort of paste. Make a small ball of it, which boil in a little water to ascertain whether it be sufficiently salt; sweet herbs may be added when you are about to use it. The godiveau is used, as & farce for tourtes and hot pies. Godiveau (Hot Pie of).*—Make a raised crust, about five inches high, and of any size you may think proper; on the bottom of which lay some godiveau, over this place some mushrooms cooked in butter, two or three artichoke bottoms, cut into pieces, and then lay some more godiveau formed into small sausages. Cover the pie with the paste, dares and bake it. When done, open it, and pour in any sauce which will correspond with the godiveau. Godiveau (Tourte of).*—Roll out some light paste, and cut it to the size of the dish you intend to use; spread over it a small quantity of godiveau, on which place a few mushrooms fried lightly and drained ; then some artichoke bottoms, each cut into four or six pieces; roll some godiveau into balls of any size you think proper, and lay them on the abovementioned articles, so as to form a flattish dome; cover it with the light paste, press the edges together, moisten the top, and lay an ornamental cover of puff-paste over. GOOSE (Boiled).—lake a goose, singe it, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk ; let it lie in this all night; then take it out, dry it well with a cloth ; cut into small pieces a large onion and some sage ; put them into the goose, sew it up at the neck and vent, hang it up by the legs till the next day ; then put it into a pot of cold water, cover it close, and let it boil gently for an hour. Serve with onion sauce. Another method of boi)in°- a goose, is by laying it in salt for a week ; then boil it for an hour. Serve with onion sauce, or cab* bage boiled or stewed in butter. Goose en Daxibe.*—Prepare a goose in the usual way, lard it with lax-dons seasoned