ZES 532 YEL nto a jug, adding four spoonsful of fresh yeast; shake it well together, let it stand uncovered near the fire for a day, to fer- ment. There will be a thin liquor on the top, pour this off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. To make a half- peck loaf you should use a quarter of a pint of the above. Yeast Dumplings.—Make a very light dough with yeast, the same as for bread, but with milk instead of water, add salt; set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for half an hour, or an hour, to rise ; in the mean time set on the fire a large saucepan of hot water, and as soon as it boils, roll up the dough into small balls, and put them nto the boiling water; keep them conti- nually boiling for ten minutes, then take them out and. serve them immediately, with wine sauce over them. To ascertain whether they are sufficiently boiled, stick a fork into one, and if it comes out clean, it is done enough. Some think the best manner of eating them is by dividing them from the top by two forks, as the}’’ become heavy by their own steam, and eat them immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. YELLOW Glaze.*—Make a glaze, with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar in pow- der, the white of an egg, to which add by degrees as much lemon juice as may be necessary; when sufficiently beaten up, (and the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be), add to it a small quantity of in- fusion of saffron, strained, and the yellow rind of one or two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scraped and pounded; take care, however, not to put too much of the latter, lest the glaze should be bitter. YORKSHIRE Pudding.*—Mix two spoonsful of flour with a pint of milk and three eggs, well beaten, add a spoonful of salt, and a little ginger grated. Butter the pan, and put in the mixture; when browned by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, that that may be browned also. It should be made in a square pan, and served to table cut in pieces, neatly arranged upon a dish. The richness of the pudding is increased ac- cording to the number of eggs you may choose to put in. ZESTS.—Zest (a term of art, used by confectioners) is the peel of oranges, le- mons, or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in small slips or zests, as thin as possible.