BRE 80 BRE milk, three quarters of a pound of warm hutter, half a pound of yeast, and two ounces of salt; when the whole is well worked up, cover, and leave it to rise. In two hours’ time, form it into rolls, and lay them on tinned plates. Place them in a slow oven. When they have heen in an hour, put them into a very hot oven for twenty mi- nutes. Rasp them as soon as they are baked. Bread Fritters.*—Boil half a pint of milk till reduced to half, with a little su- gar, salt, half a spoonful of orange-flour water, and a little lemon peel shred fine ; Lave ready some pieces of crumb of bread, cut about the size of halfcrowns, but thicker; put them into the milk to soak a little, then drain, flour, and fry them.— Glaze them with sugar, and pass the sala- mander over them. Bread, Gdteaux*—Grate the crumb of a fresh loaf, throw it into boiling cream, keep stirring it over the fire, and let it boil some time longer ; then add to it a bit of butter, some sugar, and lemon peel, and currants, if you think proper ; butter a [stewpan well, pour the bread, &c. into it, and place it on a stove, with fire on the lid also. When the gdteaux is of a nice colour, turn it on a dish and serve it. Bread, a la Grecque.*—Put six pounds of sifted flour into a large pan, set it in the oven for about an hour, that it may be tolerably warm, then mix with it three ounces of yeast, two ounces of salt, and a sufficient quantity of milk and water to make it into dough (not too stiff). Hav- ing kneaded it well, cover, and set it on the oven or in a stove ; after it has stood three hours, divide it into eight parts, put them into as many buttered tins, place them immediately into a very hot oven, and when nearly done, take them out of the tins and place them on tin plates for a few minutes to colour the crust. Wrap them in flannel. Bread {London).—To make London bread, put a bushel of good flour which has been ground a month or six weeks, in one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Take nine quarts of warm water, and mix it with one quart of good yeast • put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands; let it remain until rt rises as high ns it will go, which will take about an hour and a quarter. Watch it carefully to its ultimate height, and do not suffer it to fall ; then make up the dough with eight quarts more of warm water and one pound of salt; work it well with | your hands, and then cover it over with a sack or other coarse cloth. Put the fire ■ into the oven; heat it thoroughly, and by the time it is hot, the dough will be ready. Next make the dough into loaves, not exceeding four or five pounds each, sweep out the oven clean, and put in the loaves. Shut the oven close, and they will be baked in about two hours and a half; then open the oven, and draw the bread. In summer the water need not be more than blood-warm, but in winter it must be a few degrees higher in heat. During a hard frost, however, the water should bo as hot as the hand could bear it, though not sufficiently hot to scald the yeast, as that would spoil the whole batch of bread. Other quantities of bread are made in the same proportion. Bread {Manheim) *—Take six spoons- ful of flour, three of sugar, half an ounce of green anise, and a little salt; make it into a firm paste, with two eggs, and roll it into pieces about a foot long, and rather more than an inch thick ; lay them on but- tered tins, dorez and mark them with the point of a knife, and put them into a hot oven; when done, cut them in pieces for use. Bread Pridding*—-Cut two or three French rolls in slices, and soak them in a pint of cream or good milk; beat up the yolks of six eggs with them, and add sugar, orange-flower water, three pounded maca- roons, and a glass of white wine; tie it up in a basin or buttered cloth, let the water boil when you put in tire pudding, and boil it for half an hour. Serve with wine sauce. Bread (little) Puddings.—Steep the crumb of a penny loaf, grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat up six eggs and mix with it; add two ounces of warmed butter, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-cupful of cream. Beat all well to- gether, and bake in buttered tea-cups; a quarter of a pound of currants, orange or lemon candied may be added. Bread Sauce.—Cut in slices the crumb of a French roll, to which add a few pep- percorns, one whole onion, a little salt, a little butter, and boiling milk enough to cover it; let it simmer gently by tin'side of the fire till the bread has imbibed the whole of the milk ; then add a little thick cream, take out the onion, and rub the whole through a sieve; make it very hot,