CLA CLA 178 three citrons into an earthen vessel, and strain on them the juice ; to this put a little water ; pour the mixture into a basin in which are four pounds of clarified sugar, boiled to fort boulet. Place this basin in a large saucepnn, half filled with water, over the fire; stir the contents of the basin frequently ; and when the sugar is entirely dissolved, and the syrup quite clear, take the saucepan from the fire, and let it cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bottled. Citron Water.—Bruise eighteen ounces of good citron peel, nine ounces ol orange peel, a quarter of a pound of nutmegs; put them into three gallons of proof spiiits, and distil it; then add two pounds of double refined sugar, and bottle it. Another way.—Steep the rind, cut tlnn, of a dozen citrons, and half an ounce of bruised cardamom seed, iu good brandy (about a quart); stop it close, and let it stand some days ; then boil a pound and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of water, until it becomes a syrup; skim it well, and when cold, add it, with the juice of three lemons, to the infusion; iun it through a jelly-bag several times, and when perfectly clear, it may be bottled. CITRONNELLE Ratafia. — For two quarts of the best brandy, take, the zests or rinds of a dozen fins sound lemons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an ounce of coriander, and two pounds of sugar, dis- solved in a pint and a half of water ; infuse the whole for a month, then strain and bottle it. ...... CLARET (Artificial).—Distil m a cold still, one part of clary water, halt a part of redstreak cider; and put them, with six pounds of Malaga raisins, beaten in a mor- tar, and one pound of the iat mother of claret, in a close vessel, to ferment; when it has stood a fortuight, draw it off, and for every gallon put half a pint of mul- berry, blackberry, or gooseberry juice, and a pint of spirit of clary; to the whole put three spoonsful of flour, the whites of two e<ro-s, a drachm of isinglass, and two pounds of syrup of clary ; mix the whole well to- gether, and let it stand ; when quite clear, bottle it. „ C LARY Fritters.—Rent up three eggs with a spoonful and a half of cream, then add a little ratafia, three spoonstulI of flour, nutmeg and sugar to the taste. W ash and dry thoroughly some clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them. Gar- nish with Seville orange, and serve with melted butter. ... Clary Pancakes.—Make a batter with three eggs, three spoonsful of flour, a pint of milk, and a little salt. Pour this batter in a thin layer on boiling lard; and on that a few well washed and dried clary leaves, over which pour some more batter, and fry them. Clary (Spirit of). — lake a quart of the juice of clary, clary flowers, clove, gillyflowers, archangel flowers, flowers of lily of the valley, and coinfrey flowers, of each two pounds ; put these into two gal- lons of sack, and let them steep all night; then distil it in a glass still, with a very gentle fire; let the still be very well pasted, to keep in the spirits; put sifted sugarcandy into the bottle you draw it in, and let it drop through a bag of ambergris. Clary Water.—Put two quarts of fresh clary flowers, with a quart of burrage water, into an earthen jar, which place in a large vessel of water over the fire; when it has stood an hour take out the flowers, and put in the same quantity of fresh flow- ers ; in another hour take these out, and l!irow in fresh, and so on for seven hours; then add a gallon of fresh flowers, two quarts of sack, and sweeten it with two pounds of white sugarcandy pounded, dis- til it, and if necessary add more sugarcandy. Clary Wine.—Boil six gallons of water, a dozen pounds of sugar, the juice of six lemons, and four well beaten whites of eo-gs, for half an hour, skimming it care- fully ; then poor this whilst boiling hot on a peck of fresh clary flowers, with the peels of the lemons used above, and stir it well; add a very thin and dry toast, co- vered with yeast. When it has worked two or three days, add to it six ounces of syrup of lemons, and a quart of Rhenish wine. Squeeze the clary through a cloth, strain the liquor through a flannel bag in a cask, lay the bung on loosely, and if in the course of a few days it does not work, bung it quite close. The wine may be bottled in three months. Another way.—To fifteen gallons of water, put forty-five pounds of sugar, and having boiled and skimmed it, put a small quantity of it to a quarter of a pint of yeast, add a little more by degrees, and let it stand an hour. Then put both together, and pour it on twelve quarts of clary flow- ers, and let it work; as soon as it has done, bung it up for four months. Draw it off, and add a gallon of brandy; stop it close for six or seven weeks, and then bottle it. , CLOVE ( Essence e/").—Infuse a drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of the .