524 WAF WAL pour it oft' very carefully, tliat all the sedi- ment may remain at the bottom; weigh it, and the above quantities will have yielded seventeen ounces ; put into a matrass two pounds of crushed sugar with the infusion, close the matrass tight, and set it in the bain-marie, over a moderate fire; shake it occasionally to accelerate the dissolution of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved, let the fire go out and the matrass cool gradually. When cold, pour the syrup into bottles. VOL AU VENT.*—Take three quarters of a pound of puft’ paste, give it six turns, roll it out to a tolerable thickness, and take care that it is equally thick all over; lay a very thin piece of common paste on a bak- ing-tin, put the pufif paste on it, cut it to the size and shape of the dish it i3 to be served in; make a mark all round the top, at an inch and a half from the edge, dorez, and decorate the sides and top according to taste, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, take out the inside, as marked, replace it in the oven to dry a little, and then fill your vnl an vent with such ragoiits or fruits as may be directed: if for sweets, glaze the top with sugar. W. WAFERS. * — Take a pint of good cream, half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of powder sugar, and two drachms of orange-flower water. Beat the cream with the flower, a little at a time, until both are mixed perfectly smooth and free from lumps, then add the other articles, and as much more cream as will make the paste nearly as thin as milk; make the iron hot, dip a feather in some melted butter, and rub the iron over with it; put on the iron about a spoonful and a half of the paste, press them a little gently, and place the iron on a stove ; open the iron a little frequently, to see if it be done ; when one side is baked, turn the iron, and do the other. The wafers should only be lightly coloured. Take them from the mould care- fully with a knife. Wafers (a V Alle.mande).*— Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and cut them into very thin slices; put them in a basin with three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and two pinches of crisped orange flowers, mix them together with white of egg. Rub some wafer paper over with white wax, and a little sweet oil; spread the preparation over it as thin as possible, and strew chopped pistachios on the sur- face ; put them into a rather hot oven. When about half done, take them out, cut them into squares, replace them in the oven a moment, and then roll them on a stick; as soon as they are cold, lay them on a sieve ; keep them covered. Wafers (en Cornets).*—Three ounces of butter, the volks of three eggs, a quart of water, three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and the same of flour. Melt the butter, then put to it the eggs (well beaten), sugar, flour, and the water, a little at a time, to prevent any lumps. Make your wafers as above directed, and whilst hot, twist them round like horns. Wafehs (German).* — Take seventeen ounces of sifted flour, and half a pint of good yeast, which make into a paste, with as much warm milk as will make it run from the spoon freely, without being too clear; then put it into a warm place. When it has risen well, add to it the yolks of fourteen eggs, well beaten, the whites whipped to a snow, and the grated rinds of two lemons. The whole being well mixed, pour over it seventeen ounces of fresh butter melted, but not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden spoon, and put the preparation again into a warm place to rise a second time ; when it has risen suffi- ciently, and your pan quite hot, rub the latter with butter, fill it with the paste, set it over a brisk fire, and fry your wafers; make both sides equally brown; when done, sprinkle them with powder sugar (and cin- namon, if you like), and serve them hot. Be careful in taking out the paste to fill tire pan, not to disturb, nor to plunge the spoon into the preparation, when not using it; the upper part of the paste should be taken off very gently, and the spoon laid across the top of the vessel ; if these pre- cautions be not attended to, the good appearance of the wafers will be de- stroyed. Wafers (a Vltalieline).* — Take eight eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar, a pound of flour, six ounces of cream, the same of milk, an ounce of orange flowers, and the rind of a lemon grated. Beat the eggs with the sugar and flour first; then add the cream, milk, and other materials, by degrees ; mix them well, and take care there are not the slightest lumps. Make the wafers as directed. WALNUTS in Brandy*—Take your walnuts lor this purpose, when sufficiently young for a pin to penetrate them ; let them be fresh gathered ; peel, and throw