226 DIS DRA sufficiently large to contain the whole of the liquid, copper ones, if well tinned, may he employed instead. Earthen ves- sels should he perfectly haked, free from blemish, and previously proved. Great care is necessary that the fire he not too fierce at the commencement of the operation, as the vessels employed are liable to break when exposed suddenly to a strong heat; the fire should therefore he increased gradually. Observe, that when a substance requires repeated distillation, the fire should be in- creased for each operation. Also observe : that the distilled liquid ought to flow from the alembic in one continued, though small stream ; if it come by drops only, the liquor obtained will be but slightly impregnated with the essential oil. The first drops which flow from the alembic are called phlegm, and should not be mixed with the distilled liquid; it is therefore better to place a small glass un- der the mouth of the alembic ; when nearly half filled, remove it, and put the vessel in which the distilled substance is to be received. The various vessels used in distilling ought to be very closely cemented to- gether; the material for this purpose is called lute; and is also used to put over the corks of the bottles containing spiritu- ous liquors. The best lute is made with linseed oil, a small quantity of litharge, to give it dryness, and very dry clay reduced to powder; by beating these ingredients well in a mortar, a thick paste is produced, which is easily spread over the edges of the vessels, and effectually excludes the air. This paste will continue moist and ductile for a long time. Another lute is composed of clay, sand, and cowhair, or hemp; this is generally used to put over such vessels as are liable to crack or melt, on being exposed to very strong heat. Lutum Sapientia- is made of slacked lime, flour, and clay, finely pulverized and sifted; bound together with whites of eggs, beaten up with water. The best method of excluding the air from bottles, is, by dipping the corks in a mixture of white wax and beef suet, in the proportion of two thirds of the former to one third of the latter; and then, when the corks are well driven into the bottles, to cover them with the firstinentioned lute. DOTTERELS.—They are to be roasted the same as Ortolans. DOVES. — The turtledove is distin- guished by a blueish ring round its neck, the other parts being almost white. The stockdove exceeds both the woodpigeon and ringdove in size. When they are fresh and fat, they are limber-footed, and feel full in the vent: but when stale, their vents are green and flabby. DRAGEES (Common).*— The paste for these dragees is made in the same manner as for the better sort, but the materials differ a little : thus to a quarter of a pound of the gum, take either equal quantities of sugar and powder, or one third of the former to two thirds of the latter. When these and the gum are well mixed, roll out the paste until it is as thin as the back of a knife-blade; then take a paste-cutter, shaped like a sugar loaf, with the top taken off, with the largest I end of which cut as many pieces of the I paste as will about two thirds fill the cut- l ter; press these through the smaller end i into paper cases; set them in a warm r place for several days. These kind of dragees may, if liked, be sugared in the ! same manner as almonds. Dragees en Pastilluge.9—These dm- r gees are made of the same materials as the I Superfine dragees; the only difference con- f sists in their forms, which resemble the | bonbons: to make them, it is necessary to I have a number of wooden moulds (pear- I tree wood is the best), on which must be J stamped small squares, with various de- I vices engraved on them. Cut your paste into ! small pieces; press each piece on a mould; I' take off all the superabundant paste ; then ■ dip your finger in water, and with it re- i move the paste from the mould; dry them in cases like the other dragees. Dragees (Superfine).*—Put a quarter | of a pound of the best gum dragon into a pan, with a pint of cold water : cover, and let it stand for twenty-four hours: then take a strong close cloth, about two feet 1 long, and put a part of your gum into it; fold it three times, so as to envelop the gum ; then wring the cloth, by which means the purest gum will be forced through; scrape it off carefully with a knife, and then proceed in the same way, until all the gum be strained; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it about wit a pestle for half an hour; then add to it a pound of double-refined sifted sugar; mix them together well, until it becomes a . ti paste; divide this into five parts, four *.<*■ * fci