FAR FAR 246 Espagnole" Travaillee*— Take five ladiesful of espagnole, three of consomme, and a handful of mushrooms ; if the sauce be not sufficiently coloured, you may add some veal blond ; boil these over a brisk fire; skim and take off all the fat. When it is well reduced, strain it, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. This sauce should be of the consistence of clear broth. Haifa bottle of white wine may be added to this. ESSENCE.* —Take half a bottle of white wine, half a glass of the best vine- gar, the juice of two lemons, three ounces of salt, half an ounce of whole pepper, a little nutmeg and mace, four cloves, four bay leaves, thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten shalots, pounded, and an ounce of dry mushrooms; put all these ingredients into an earthen pan, over a brisk fire; when near boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for six or seven hours; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and afterwards filter it. Keep it in closely-corked bottles : a small quan- tity is sufficient to flavour a dish. F. FANCHONETTES* — Put into a saucepan two ounces of flour, three ot sugar, one of butter, two of pounded al- monds, some green lemon peel, two yolks, and one whole egg, a little salt, and halt a pint of milk ; put these ingredients on the fire, and let them set like a cream ; line some tartlet tins, or moulds with puff paste, fill them with the preparation ; place the moulds on a tin, and bake the fanchonettes in a brisk oven ; when about three parts done, take them out, put frothed eggs on, sprinkle sugar over, and replace them in the oven to finish the baking. FARCE a la Creme.—Make use of the panada and udder (see Panada/or Farces'), but no herbs are required in the panada, instead of which, put a little cream. Take the white flesh of a fowl that has been roasted; take off the skin and sinews, chop the meat very fine; then pound it as you do for other farces. Put in the yolks of four eggs, after the farce has bpen pounded and well seasoned. Poat. the whites of the eggs, and mix them gently with the rest, stirring the whole with a wooden spoon. Use this farce when requisite ; it is generally used for Fowl it la Creme,- if you have in the larder a cold roast fowl, you may make that entree with it; empty the fowl, by cutting a square hole in the breast, the white flesh you make the farce with, and then re- place it in the cavity, and proceed as di- rected in the receipt for Fowl a la Creme. Farce Cuite* — Cut some undressed breast of fowl into dice, and put them into a- stewpan with a small piece of butter, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; do them up over the fire for ten minutes, then take out the meat, drain, and let it cool; put a piece of bread into the same stew- • pan, with some broth and a little shred ! parsley; stir it with a wooden spoon, and beat it up over the fire till the bread is of the consistence of panada, and the broth reduced, when it must be set to cool; then pound the fowl well, and pass it through a quenelle sieve; do the same with the bread, and after that a ready dressed calf’s udder, keeping all separate; then take equal portions of these three ingredients, and pound them together for three quarters of an hour; at the end of that time, add the yolks of five or six eggs, according to the quantity of your farce, still pounding until the whole be well mixed together; then take it from tire mortar and set it aside in a pan for use. . Fauce a Grntin of Partridges, Rabbits, and Fowls.—The Farce a Gratin is made in the same manner as the Farce a la Creme, with the only difference, that you must not beat the whites of tire eggs, and that this farce is to be kept delicate and soft. Use the flesh of roasted chickens or young rabbits, or young partridges. This farce is intended for the stuffing of such articles as are not to be put on the firo again; such as calf’s ears, calfs feet, larks au gratin, Ac. • Farce (Omelet of).*—Take any meat, game, or fowl farce vou please ; pour on it a dozen eggs well beaten, and fry your omelet, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness all over. Farce a Quenelles.—Put the crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, with two table-spoonsful of fowl consomme, one of veloute, a tea-spoonful of parsley, and twe of mushrooms (both shred fine) ; set it on a moderate tire till it boils; stir if con- stantly, and when it forms a smooth, softisii paste, add the yolks of two eggs; then put it on a plate, and cover it with a piece of buttered paper. 1 ake the fillets from two fat chickens, and having re- moved the skin, pound and rub them through a sieve ; proceed in the same wav with two readv-dressed calfs udders and