PLU PLU 434 lay a gratin (see that article) on your dish to about the thickness of an inch, place the plovers on it, and fill the spaces between them with the same; raise the gratin round, but take care not to cover the breast with it; lay slices of bacon over the whole, and set it over a moderate fire, with rather a brisk one at the top ; when done, drain off all the fat, and serve them with an Ilalienne. Plovers a la Pcrigueux *—Put four plo- vers into a stewpan, with a dozen whole truffles (skinned), a bouquet, some basil, salt, and pepper ; give them a few turns in a little butter, and then add a glass oi champagne, and six ladiesful of reduced espagnole, skim it well, and when done, take out the birds and truffles, place them on a dish, the truffles at the top ; reduce the sauce, add the juice of a lemon, and serve it. . Plovers (Roasted').—Make a, farce with the intestines of four plovers, as directed for plovers au gratin, stuff the birds with this farce, sew it in, and fasten them on skewers; cover them with slices of bacon, and wrap them in paper; fix the skewers to a spit, and roast the birds. When quite done, unfasten and disli them. Serve with a ragout of truffles poured over them. Plover’s Eggs.—Boil them ten minutes, and serve them on a napkin either hot or cold. PLUMS in Brandy*—Take twelve pounds of fine magnum bonum plums, and three pounds of sugar; the fruit should be turned in colour, but not ripe ; prick, and put them into a saucepan with cold water, set them on the fire ; when the water boils and the plums rise, take them out carefullv with a skimmer, and put them into a pan of cold water; clarify and boil the sugar to ■petit lisst, put the plums to it, and give them a boil; the two succeeding days, drain off and boil the syrup, first alone, and afterwards with the fruit; the third day drain the plums, and put them into bottles; then boil the syrup to la nappe, and when cold, add to it three fourths of its quantity of the best brandy, stir it well, strain and pour the mixture over the plums. Cork the bottles tight. Green- gage plums are done like apricots. (See Apricots in Brandy.) c Plums (Candied).-CXtooso your fruit of a nice shapo and good size ; cut them in halves, lay them on a large shnllow dish, strew powder sugar over, and put them into a moderate oven, tightly closed , in half an hour’s time, take them out, a place the plums one by one on glass plates to dry. Plums (Clear Cakes of).—Pill a jar with the wdiite pear plums, set it in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire ; when suffi- ciently done, let the clear juice run from it, and to every pint of it add an equal quantity of sugar, boiled to candy height; put the juice to the syrup, set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till the whole is quite hot, but not boiling ; then pour it into glasses, and dry the cakes in a stove. Plum Cream.—This is made in the same manner as peach cream, and made with the magnum bonum; the other kinds will do, but the first mentioned is best. Plums (Fromage Bavarois).*—fake the stones from an hundred small, or thirty-six laro’e plums, make a marmalade of them, with half a pound of clarified sugar; rub it through a fine sieve, mix the isinglass in, and proceed as usual. (See Fromage | Bavarois.) 1 Plums with Almonds (Gimblettes of). — These are made in the same manner as other gimblettes (see Peach Gimblettes); only that plum-marmalade and sweet al- monds, blanched, are used instead of peach- marmalade and pistachios. Plums in Jelly.—When the plums are preserved in their first sugar, dram and strain the syrup through a jelly bag. lake some ripe plums and codlins, put them into a saucepan with as much water as will cover them; set them on the fire and I when quite soft, press out the juice and strain it, and for every pint of juice, boil a pound of sugar to souffle; boil the juice a little, then add the syrup and plums, and boil all together. Fake it off, and when it has settled a little, skim and pour it into glasses. A little scraped ginger, soaked in water for two or three days, and boiled with the above, imparts a fine fla- vour to the jelly. Plums (Marmalade of).* — lake six pounds of plums, and four pounds of sugar; stone, and put the fruit into a cullender, bent it through with a wooden pestle into a preserving pan, which set on the fire, to dry the pulp, stirring it constantly, m the mean time, clarify and boil the sugar to petit casse, then mix it with the fruit (still on the fire), stir it till the whole is of the consistence of jelly, then take 1 o , and pour the marmalade into pots. If the plums are not quite npe, uiey must be boiled once or twice before ffiey are pressed through the cullen er. ^