CAL 112 CAL with crust; bake it in a slow oven ; and when done, pour into it as much broth as it will possibly hold, and do not cut it till quite cold. This pie may he eaten hot, if seasoned high, and with the addition of mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c. Calf’s Head d la Poivrade.—Bone a scalded head as far as the eyes, and boil it with some pickled pork, both of which, when done, must he served in the same dish: boil half a glass of vinegar, the same of stock, chopped slialots, and whole onions ; strain it, and add pepper and salt: pour this over the head, and serve with sauce a la poivrade. Calf’s Head a. la Poulette*—Toss up some sweet herbs in a little butter, then add to them a little stock, salt, and pepper ; boil these a quarter of an hour : having cut a calf s head in pieces, as for frying ; put them into the sauce, and boil them slowly, till hot; just before serving, put in two or three eggs, and stir it till thick; be careful not tolet it boil after the eggs are added. Serve with a little lemon juice or vinegar. Calf’s Head au Putts Certain.*—Take the meat from a calf’s head, leaving on thd- eyes and the brains ; soak it well \ take off the end of the snout, the cheek-bones, and those of the tongue ; put the head into cold water ; and when it has boiled once, take it off, drain, and cool it. Cut the meat into round pieces, the size of a crown piece (leave the tongue and ears whole), rub each bit with lemon, and boil them in a blanc, wrap the bones in a cloth, and put that in also; in proper time take it out, drain and lay it on a plate : open the head, clean the brain, and fill it with some quenelles of veal, mixed with mushrooms, sweetbreads, and truffles, cut in dice ; ar- range this stuffing so as to make the head its original form ; wrap it in a pig s caul, and bake it. When done, place it in the middle of a dish, with the ears and pieces of tongue round. Serve it with a good Jinan- ciere, with crayfish, and pimento butter. Calf’s Head roasted.—Cleanse the head well; bone, and dry it. Wake a sea- soning of pepper, salt, beaten mace, nut- meg, cloves, some fat bacon, cut very small, and grated ; strew it over the head, roll it up, skewer, and tie it with tape. Roast and baste it with butter. Make a rich veal gravy, thickened with butter rolled in flour; you may add mushrooms and oysters. Serve the head with this sauce. Calf’s Head roasted with Oysters.—Pre- pare a head as for boiling; take out the tongue and brains, parboil them; blanch the tongue, and mince both with a little sage, beef suet or marrow, a few oysters, four or five egg yolks beaten, salt, pepper, ginger, nutmeg, and grated bread ; parboil and dry the head ; fill the skull and mouth with the above ingredients, and oysters, tie it up, and roast it ; preserve its gravy, and put it, with some white wine, nutmeg, oysters, and sweet herbs minced, over a chafing-dish ; add butter, lemon juice and salt, beat it up thick ; dish the head, and serve it with the sauce over it. Calf’s Head soused.—Scald and bone a calf’s head, and soak it for seven or eight hours, changing the water twice; dry it well. Season with salt and bruised garlic; roll it up, bind it very tight, and boil it in white wine, salt, and water ; when done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and keep it for use. Serve up either whole or in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. Calf’s Head stewed.*—IV ash a calf’s head perfectly clean for an hour, in water, and then bone it with the greatest care; take out the tongue and eyes ; chop up two pounds of veal, and the same of beef suet, thyme, lemon peel, and two ancho- vies, with a nutmeg, and two stale rolls grated; mix these together, with the yolks of four eggs, a pint of fresh mushrooms, the yolks of six eggs chopped, and half a pint of stewed oysters ; put this forcemeat into the head, close, and tie it up tight. Put it into • a stewpan, with two quarts of gravy, and a little mace ; cover the pan close, and let it stew for two hours. In the mean time, beat up the brains with shred parsley, lemon peel, half a nutmeg grated, and the yolk of an egg; fry halt these in little cakes, with the forcemeat balls, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy the head was boiled in, and boil it with half an ounce of truffles and morels, and a few mushrooms ; add the remainder of the brains, stew all together for a minute or two, then pour it over the head, and lay the fried brains and forcemeat balls round ; fry a few oysters, and place them on the head. Garnish with lemon. Calf's Head stuffed.*—Bone a calfs head with great care, let the eyes remain in their proper places ; soak it, and then ha- ving blanched it, lay it in cold water; drv and singe it. Make some godivean, and when about three parts done, put in tno spoonsful of reduced reloute, and rather more spice, shred parsley, and slialots, than