SUG Suet Pudding.—Chop half a pound of beef suet very fine, add to it the same quantity of flour, two eggs beaten, a little salt, a small quantity of pounded and sifted ginger ; mix all these well together with milk to a moderate consistence. It may he either baked or boiled. SUGAR (to clarify).* — Take four pounds of sugar, and break it into pieces ; put into a preserving-pan the white of an egg, and a glass of pure spring water; mix them well with a whisk, add another glass, still whipping, until two quarts of water have been put in ; when the pan is full of froth, throw in the sugar, and set it on the fire, being careful to skim it every time the scum rises, which will be the case as the sugar boils up. After a few boilings, the sugar will rise so high as to run over the edges of the pan, to prevent which, throw- on it a little cold water; this will lower it instantly, and give time for the skimming, for the scum should never be taken off whilst the sugar is bubbling; the cold water stills it, and that is the moment to skim it. Repeat this operation carefully three or four times, when a whitish light scum only will rise ; then take the pan off, lay a napkin, slightly wetted, over a basin, and pour the sugar through it. The scum thus taken oft, put into a china basin ; and when the sugar is clari- fied, wash the pan and the skimmer with a glass of water, which put to the scum, and set it aside for more common purposes. Sugar (Different Degrees of Preparing). —The various purposes to which sugar is applied, require it to be in different states; these are called degi*ees, and are thirteen in number, called as follows : Petit Lissd, First Degree. — Replace the clarified sugar in the preserving-pan, to boil gently, take a drop ot it on the thumb, touch it with the forefinger ; if, on open- ing them, it draws to a fine thread, and in breaking, forms two drops on each finger, it is at the right point. Lissc, Second Degree. — A little more boiling brings it to this point; when the thread w-ill draw further before it breaks. Petit Pole, Third Degree. — At this point the thread maybe drawn as far as the span will open, without breaking. Grand Pole, Fourth Degree. — On still increasing tbe boiling, little raised balls are formed on the surface of the sugnr. Petite Queue de Cochon, l'ifth Degree. Take up some ot the sugar on a skimmer, and drop it on the rest, when it should form a slanting streak on the surlace. 486 SUG Boil it a little longer, and it will reach the Grande Queue de Cochon, or Sixth Degree. —The streak or tail is now larger. Souffle, Seventh Degree. — lake out a skimmerful of the sugar, blow through it( and small sparks of sugar will fly from it. Petite■ Plume, Eighth Degree.—The same proof as above; the sparks should be larger and stronger. Grande Plume, Ninth Degree.—Take the sugar in the skimmer, as before, give it a shake, and if the sparks are large, and ad- here together on rising, it is at the right point. Petit Boulet, Tenth Degree.—Dip your fingers in cold water, and then into the sugar instantly, and again into the water, when the sugar will roll into a ball, which will be supple when cold. Gros Boulet, Eleventh Degree.—At this point, the ball or bullet will be harder when cold than at the last. Casse, Twelfth Degree.—Prove as above; the bullet should crumble between the fin- gers, and on biting, will stick to the teeth ; at the next point, Caramel, Thirteenth Degree.—it should snap clean. This point is very difficult to attain, for in increasing the height, the sugar is apt to burn ; it is better therefore to try the proof very frequently. Another caramel is frequently used by the confectioner, and is of a deep colour; it is made by putting a little water to the sugar, and boiling it without skimming, or otherwise touching the sugar, till ot the right colour, then take it oft and use im- mediately. If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to miss the right point, add a little cold water, and boil once more. Observations.—The skimmer should never be left in the preserving-pan after the sugar is clarified, nor after the scum is removed. , Be very careful not to stir or disturo the sugar, as that would cause its dimi- nution. . , In boiling the sugar (particularly the two last degrees), the sugar is continually rising and falling; and on falling, leaves marks on the sides of the pan, which tbe heat of the fire would soon burn, and there- by spoil the whole of the sugar ; to avoid this, have by the side of you a pan of cold water, and a sponge, with which w.pe the sides of the pan carefully, the instant after the sugar lias fallen. . r Sugar a la Adige.*—Blanch a quarter of