PLU POM 435 2 f2 of the kernels may be added, if approved; I they should he pounded before putting in ! the marmalade. ! Plums (to pickle like Olives).—Take the plums before they are quite ripe, and put them into a saucepan with white wine vi- negar, salt, water-fennel seed, and dill, as much of each as will impart a flavour to the pickle; when it boils put in the plums, let it boil again, then take it oflf; let it i stand till cold, then put them into jars. Plum-Bu(/s (to pickle).—Gather some plum-buds, and put them into boiling salt and water ; when they have boiled, before they are tender, take them out, drain the water from them, when cold add some white-wine vinegar, two or three blades of mace, and a little whole pepper; put these into the pickle and leave it; in about eight or nine days, boil them again a few times, taking care not to let them get soft; when cold, put the whole into jars, and tie them down. Plums preserved dry. — Gather the plums when full grown and just turning colour, prick and put them into a saucepan of cold water, set them on the fire until the water is on the point of boiling ; then take them out, drain and boil them well in some clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil them again; if they shrink and will not take the sugar, prick them as they lay in the pan, and then give them another boil, skim and set them by : the next day, add some more sugar, boiled to souffle, to the fruit and syrup, then do them together; place them in a stove till next day, when drain the plums from the syrup, sprinkle a little powder sugar over, and dry them in a stove. Plums preserved liquid.* — Gather the plums green, firm, and when the stone i may be extracted with ease; cut the ! stalks close, and prick the fruit in several places, especially round the stalk ; then place them in a saucepan of water over the fire, and as soon as the water is ready to boil, take the saucepan from the fire: in four-and-twenty hours, replace the plums in the same water on a gentle fire, with a small quantity of verjuice to preserve their colour. Keep the water hot, without allowing it to boil, for three hours, stirring it occasionally; when the fruit is perfectly green, increase the heat till the plums rise to the surface, when they must be taken out and thrown into cold water, which i change frequently till the plums are per- I fectly cold; then drain them. Put the fruit in some sugar boiled to la nappe, boil 'them up a few times, adding a little water ; skim, and then pour the whole into a pan; the next two days drain off the syrup, and increase the degree of boiling each day; the third and fourth days boil the fruit with the syrup, keeping them covered, and increasingthe degree, until the last time it reaches to perld. Put the preserve into pots, and place them for two days in a stove. The same fruit may be preserved dry also. The operation is the same, but the syrup is drained off, and the plums laid on tin plates before they are put into the stove. Plum Pudding.*—Cut the crumb of a penny loaf into slices, pour over them a sufficient quantity of boiling milk to soak them; when quite soft, beat the bread up with half a pound of clarified suet, half a pound'of raisins stoned, half a pound of currants, sugar to the taste, five eggs well beaten, candied orange, lemon and citron, and a few bitter almonds, pounded ; lemon peel shred fine, nutmeg, and fine spices, pounded; mix the ingredients thoroughly, add a cup of brandy, pour it into a dish, and bake it. When done, turn it out, and strew powder sugar over. These ingredients make as good a pud- ding boiled. Take care to flour well the cloth or mould used for this purpose. Few things require more boiling than a plum-pudding; be careful, therefore, to let it be sufficiently done ; four hours will be enough. PGEL EE.*—Take two pounds of veal, two pounds of bacon, two large carrots and three onions ; cut all these into dice* and put them into a stewpan, with a pound of butter, the juice of three or four lemons, four cloves, two bay leaves bruised, a little thyme, salt, and pepper; set it over a good fire, and when pretty well reduced, add a ladleful of pot-top ; as soon as the whole is about half done, take it off and set by for use. POIVRADE *—Put into a stewpan a large bunch of parsley leaves, some shalots, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, a dessert- spoonful of fine white pepper, a glass of vinegar, and a small quantity of butter; set the pan on the fire, and reduce the whole till nearly all gone, when add twn ladiesful of espagnole, and one of stock; reduce these again to the proper con- sistence, and strain it for use. POMEGRANATE Clear Cakes.—Para some good boiling npples, and put them it to a saucepan with as much water a