CHO 172 CIIO when properly done, mix it with a pint of cream, three yolks of new-laid eggs, and about half a pound of sugar. Chocolate Ice (Witter).—Take three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and mix with it half a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water; mix it well, and freeze it thick. Chocolate Macaroons.*—Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tin plate over a coal fire, and when it is dissolved pour it on a plate; put to it a spoonful or two of sweet almond paste, made as for maca- roons, stir it in well, and then pour it upon the remainder of the almond paste, in which you have mixed a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon or vanilla, or both : beat them together well in a mortar, lay them on paper, and bake them for three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Chocolate (Mock).—Take a pint of milk, boil it over a slow fire with some whole cinnamon, and sweeten it with Lis- bon sugar, beat up the yolks of three eggs, throw altogether into a chocolate-pot, and mill it one way or it will turn. Serve it in chocolate-cups. Chocolate Parfait Amour*—For four bottles of brandy, take one pound of the best chocolate, cut in small bits ; a little salt, two cloves, and a little cinnnamon ; you must infuse all in the brandy, with two bottles and half a pint of water, with whites of eggs, and filter it through the paper. You must be careful not to take more than two bottles from every four, except from the cinnamon, from which you are to take as much as you can get. Chocolate Pastils.—Take a little choco- late, which put in a pan over the fire to melt it; stir it with a spoon; when it is melted, take half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded in a mortar and sifted, which dissolve in a little clear water. When that is done, put in your chocolate; if you find the paste too thick, add a little water, enough to bring it to that degree of li- quidity that you may take it up on a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and fiat drops, which we call pastils, of the sizo of a sixpence; let them dry naturally in a cupboard; and when dry, take them off from the paper, and put them in boxes. Chocolate Pastil Paste.—Melt half an ounce of gum dragon in a little water till it is quite dissolved and thick; sift it through a linen cloth, pound it iu a mor- tar with a quarter part of whites of eggs, a chocolate cake bruised, and half a pound of fine powder sugar, mixed by degrees, and adding either more or less sugar, ac- ; 4 cording as the paste is malleable; it must i 4 be pretty firm ; form it into what flowers or designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any kind of corn or beans, &c. Chocolate Petits Gateaux Royaux.*— Grate three ounces of vanilla chocolate, and mix it with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, diluted with a little white of egg; prepare and finish your cakes as directed. See Almonds Petits Gateaux Royaux. These cakes may be flavoured with ce- drat, lemon, Seville or sweet orange, by grating the rind of either of these fruits on. sugar, which must be crushed and well dried before it is used. Chocolate Petits Pains.*—These are made in the same way as Petits Pains a la Duchesse(see that article), but without the domre. When cold, fill them with a cream patissiere, mixed with two ounces of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with sugar, fla- voured with vanilla; then put three ounces of sifted sugar, the same of chocolate, and half the white of an egg, into a pan ; stir these ingredients with a silver spoon until you have a smooth transparent glaze, with which mask the top and sides of the petits pains, spreading it equally with the blade of a knife. Chocolate Projitrolles.*—Mix a quar- ter of a pound of grated chocolate in a glass of cream patissiere; spread half of this carefully on a silver dish, and put it in the oven for halt an hour, that it may burn to the dish ; then mix in a pan two ounces of grated chocolate, the same of powder sugar, and a sufficient quantity of white of egg to make a smooth glaze, with which glaze eight choux, rather larger than common ; dry them a minute or two in the oven, and fill them with the remainder of the cream; then take the largest, and place it in the centre of the dish of cream, and arrange the remaining seven round it, as close as you well can ; put it in the oven again for a quarter of an hour, and then serve. Chocolate Puff's.—Take half a pound of chocolate grated, and a pound of double- refined sugar, beat fine and sifted; with the whites of two eggs make a paste, and have ready some more sugar to strew on the tins; turn the rough side upwards, and bake them in a slow oven ; you may