ROS 46‘2 ROS and keep all as near of a size as possible; put them into a saucepan ofboiling water, and let them boil five minutes, then change them into cold water, and finish like Rocamboles (see that article). Turnips and button onions the same. ROSES (Candied).*—Crisp two hands- ful of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar, boil them to fort souffle, then take the pan from the fire, pour it on a sieve, let the syrup run from the leaves, rubbing the latter in your hands, then dry them in a stove. Roil your sugar again to souffle, adding a little carmine to colour it, and finish it in the same manner as Jonquils, Candied. (See that article.) Roses ( Conserve of ).*—Boil half a pound of sugar to fort souffle, pour into this syiup the best double-distilled rose-water ; boil it again to fort perle, mix with it a little prepared cochineal or carmine to colour it, and pour your conserve into moulds. Rose (Red) Drops* — Take a small quantity of red bastard saffron, and a little calcined alum, boil these in some water until it is sufficiently tinged for your pur- pose ; then filter or strain it through a very close linen cloth ; put five or six spoonsful of sifted sugar into the pan, dilute it with the coloured water, work it well with the bois a, tabeller, and set it over a chafing dish; when it begins to boil, add two more spoonsful of sugar, and having worked it well, perfume it with some drops of essence of roses, and finish as directed. (See Orange-flower Drops.) Rose Gateaux Souffle.*—Take a handful of rose leaves and a pound of sugar ; boil the latter to petit boule or petit casse, then put in the roses, increase the boiling to casse ; bave ready a glace royale, made with the white of an egg, tinged a delicate rose colour with a little carmine, mix this with your syrup and roses, stirring it rapidly ; when the sugar rises the second time, pour it into the mould. _ . r ■ i Rose Ice Cream.*—Put a quart of rich cream into a saucepan, set it on the fire, when it boils take it off and put in a band- ful of fresh rose leaves ; leave them to in- fuse, keep them covered for two hours; then, if the cream be cold, strain and pour it on the yolks of nine eggs, beat them up well, ndd three quarters of a pound of nowder sugar; set it on a slow fire, and stir it constantly till it thickens, taking care that it does not boil. Run it through a bolting, and when cold, colour it with a little carmine dissolved in clarified sugar ; put it into a sabotiere, and freeze as usual (See Ice). Rose Jelly*—Make a clear apple jelly, colour it with cochineal infused in double- distilled rose water, and just before the last boiling put in half a glass of the best double-distilled rose water. Roses (Oil of).*—Take three pounds of picked roses, and distil them by bain- marie in two quarts of brandy. Dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of river water, boil it up twice; when cold, add to it half a pound of double-distilled rose water ; mix if. with the brandy, filter, and bottle it. This liqueur is greatly improved by dis- solving the sugar in cold rose water. Rose Water (Double-distilled).* — The rose generally chosen for this purpose, is the common pale (single or double) rose, but the white rose is best of all. Gather the flowers in fine weather, two hours after sun-rise ; take out the calix, and se- parate the leaves, pound them in a marble mortar to a paste, and leave them five or six hours in the mortar; then put them into a large close cloth, and let two per- sons wring it with all their strength. Ha- ving by this operation obtained four pounds of juice, infuse in it an equal weight of fresh rose leaves for twenty- four hours ; at the end of that time put the whole into the alembic, which place in a sand bath, and distil it according to rule. (See Distilling.) When you have collected about an ounce of the water, unlute the receiver, and if that which issues from the still is as odori- ferous as that which proceeded first, con- tinue the operation ; but if not, collect it into another vessel, as this second water is only single, and must be kept separate from the first, which is the Essential Water. Should tlie second water have an unplea- sant smell (caused by the application of too much heat), expose it to the sun for a few days, covered only by a sheet of paper. The utmost care is necessary in distilling this and all other odoriferous substances. A still more powerful essence than the above may be procured by the following method: Gather as many roses as will afford thirty pounds of leaves, pound these with four pounds of salt; when pounded, place the paste in a vessel in layers with salt between each, press them closely, corn them tight, leave die vessel twelve days, and then distil as usual. Rose Water (Single).* - Put four