LAM 315 LAM chop it a little, and stew it in a spoonful of stock, with a small hit of butter. Pour in a small ladle of cullis, some nutmeg grated, and a little pepper and salt; stew it a minute, twist up the ears nicely, and serve. Lamb (Epigramme of).*—Take the fore- quarter of a lamb, take off the shoulder, and cut the neck so that the cutlets are not injured ; dress it (the neck) in the same manner as shoulder of lamb with cucumbers (see that article), and when done, press it between two dishes to make it smooth; let it cool, and then cut it into pieces rather larger than the cutlets; make them of the same size and shape, i (oval,) rub them all over with a sauce a Vatelet, dip them in melted butter; i bread, and lay them on a dish; cut, and ] trim the cutlets, season them with salt and : pepper, and put them in a pan with I melted butter over them: take the shoulder ; (which has been roasted), cut off all the i meat, mince, and make it into a blanquette ; | keep it hot in the bain-marie. Just before I dinner time, broil the pieces of the neck, I fry and glaze the cutlets, lay them al- ternately on a dish, en couronne, in the j centre of which pour the blanquette, and fierve the whole immediately. Lamb’s Feet en Cartouches*—Prepare some sweet herbs en papillotes, and having cooked the feet in a blanc, put them to the herbs whilst they are hot, give them two or three boils; squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and leave them to cool. Cut some pieces of paper, each large enough to hold one of the feet; ruh all over the in- i side, lay the feet on pieces of oiled paper, ! with the herbs put round and in the hollow j parts, wrap each in a thin piece of bacon, over which fold the paper so as to enclose I them completely; broil them thus over a ! slow but clear fire for half an hour. Serve | them either dry or with some clear gravy. Lamb’s Feet en Gratin.*—Take a dozen I of lamb’s feet, and set them to stew a la I braise, with eighteen or twenty small j onions; whilst they are stewing, make a j gratin, with some bread-crumbs, a little I scraped cheese, a bit of butter, and the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole toge- ther, and spread it over the bottom of your dish, setting it upon a stove, or on a chafing j dish over a slow fire, till it adheres to the bottom: then put the lamb’s feet, and the small onions intermixed, upon the gratin; let the whole simmer a little over the fire; drain off the fat, and serve a good sauce over. Lamb’s Feet en Marinade*—The feet toeing blanched as usual, soak them in a marinade, or (in case you have none) in half a glass of vinegar, with salt and pepper. After they have lain a sufficient time, drain, dip them in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour; then lay them on a cloth to drain. Serve with fried parsley over them. Lamb’s Feet Stuffed*—Prepare your feet in the usual manner, but before you blanch them, fill them with a fowl quenelle, with the addition of a little grated nutmeg, and sweet herbs shred small; sew this farce in, and then put the feet into boiling water for five minutes; let them cool, dry and singe them. Make a thick blanc, put the feet in it, and simmer them for about two hours, then drain, trim, and serve them with a green sauce Hollandoise. Lam’s Fry.—Fry it of a nice colour, and serve with a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. Lamb (Grass) Steahs.—Cut a loin of lamb into steaks, season them with pepper and salt, and fry them; when done, put them into a dish, pour out the butter, shake a little flour into the pan, put a little beef stock, a little catsup, and walnut pickle. Boil this up, stirring it all the time. Put in the steaks, and give them a shake round; serve them to table, gar- nished with crisped parsley. Lamb Flashed a I’Anglaise*—Put a slice of butter into a stewpan, with a few mush- rooms cut in pieces, and a bunch of herbs; shake them over the fire, with a little flour, moistening with stock, then let the mush- rooms stew till the sauce is nearly con- sumed ; next put in some small slices of cold roast lamb, with the yolks of three eggs beat up in milk. Thicken the whole over the fire, taking care that it does not boil; season to your taste, and, before serving, add a sprinkling of vinegar. Lamb’s Head.*—Bone a head as far as the eye, take out the under jaw, soak, and then scald it; when cold, dry and singe it; tie it up in slices of bacon, and cook it in a blanc. In about two hours take it out, drain, and untie it. Serve it quite plain, or with a ragout made with the liver, sweetbread, feet, mushrooms, all done in a blanc. Lamb’s Head (to Dress).—Boil a head and pluck tender, taking care not to do the liver too much ; take out the head, and cut it in all directions with a knife. Then grate some nutmeg over it, and lay it on a dish, before a good fire. Take some bread crumbs and some sweet herbs rubbed, a little lemon peel, finely chopped, and a