71 BLA BIS Biscuits (Sweet).*—Take half a pound of fine pounded sugar, and sift it through a tammy. Put the whites of twelve eggs into a preserving-pan, and the yolks into an earthenware tureen ; whip the whites to a snow, and then carefully pour on it the yolks and sugar; stir them gently ; place your pan over a chafing-dish; continue whipping the whole for a full half-hour, and then, if the drop which falls from the whisk lays a little while without spreading, take i it from the fire, and whisk again till it is i cold ; then add half a pound of fine sifted : flour, stir it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop them on paper, sift sugar over, and I bake them in a warm oven until of a deep j yellow; take them from the papers while i warm ; bake them as soon as possible after they are dropped on paper. Biscuits (Sweetmeut).—Cut some Naples biscuits into pieces about an inch thick, and an inch and a half square, and just crisp them in the oven. Make some icing' with whites of eggs, sugar, and orange-flower water; dip one side of the biscuitinto it; cut j some preserved lemon and orange peel and angelica into small pieces ; strew them over the biscuits, and dry the icing in the oven. Biscuit with Sweetmeats*—Prepare your biscuit as a La Parisienne, bake it in a plain round mould, six inches diameter, and five or six high. When quite cold cut it across in slices three quarters of an inch thick ; cover each slice with apricot marmalade, and replace them according to their original form. Have ready the whites of three eggs whipped firm, and mixed with a quarter of a pound of fine powder sugar, inask the biscuit with this, and strew crushed sugar over ; put it in a slow oven to colour it. Serve it cold. k ou may strew over the icing, either pis- tachios cut in dice, currants mixed with sugar, and use any marmalade or jelly you may think proper. Biscuits (Syringe).—Beat a pound of sweet almonds in a very fine paste, moist- ening them with white of egg, and having grated the rinds of six lemons, mix them in two pounds and a half of powder sugar with the almond paste. Take a syringe mould, the bottom of which should be flat, and a star cut out in the centre; half fill your syringe with the paste, and press it through, on to a well-floured slab, cut in pieces about three inches in length, lay them on three sheets of paper to prevent I their burning, and bako them in a brisk ! oven. Biscuits, Toad-in-a-Hole.—Beat a pound of sweet, and an ounce and a half of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, moisten with water, and mix the paste, which should not be too thin, with a pound and a quarter of Lisbon sugar. Lay a sheet of writing paper on your baking-plate, and wafer-paper on that; lay the biscuits about the size of a halfcrown piece ; put a dried cherry in the middle of each ; sift sugar over and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, cut the wafer paper round, but do not take it away. Biscuits (Yarmouth).—Pick and wash half a pound of currants, dry them well, rub a little flour with them, and put them with half a pound of powder sugar, three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, and half a pound of fresh butter; mix them into a paste with three eggs, roll it out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, cut them into what shapes you jilease. Bake them of a light colourin a hot oven. BLACK Cock—Is dressed in the same way as partridge ; a small one will take thirty, a full grown one forty or fifty mi- nutes to roast. Serve with currant jelly and fried bread crumbs. Gravy and bread sauce. Black Piublings.—Boil a peck of groats for half an hour in water, then drain and put them into a tub or pan ; the hog being killed, save two quarts of the blood, and stir it till quite cold, when the groats may be mixed with it, still stirring ; season it with a large spoonful of salt, cloves, nut- meg, and mace, a quarter of an ounce of each, pounded and dried ; flavour it with winter savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, and pennyroyal, all chopped small. The next day cut the leaf of the hog into dice, cleanse the entrails well, tie them at one end, and begin to fill them, putting in plenty of fat with the other ingredients, fill them about three parts full, tie the other end of the skins, prick and boil them gently for an hour; then take them out, and lay them between clean oat straw. Black Puddings.■—Soak a quart of whole groats for twelve hours in as much boiling hot milk as will swell them, and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop some pennyroyal, savory, and thyme, salt, pepper, and all- spice pounded ; mix them with a quart of blood, half fill the skins with it, and add ns much of the leaf as will make it pretty rich ; boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, lest they burst. When suf- ficiently done, lay them in clean cloths till cold. When to be used, scald them a few minutes and broil them.