melted butter, and bake it; when done, squeeze the juice of two lemons over it. Con IJie.—Lay n tine piece of fresh cod in salt for several hours, then wash it well, season it with, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace; place it in a dish, with a little but- ter and some good stock. Lay a crust over, and hake it; when done, pour iD a sauce, made as follows: A spoonful of stock, a quarter of a pint of cream, flour and butter, grate in a little nutmeg and lemon peel, and a few oysters; boil the whole once. Cod in Salt Water.*—The cod being properly cleansed and prepared, rub it all over with lemon juice, and put it into the fish kettle with salt and water, two or three hay leaves, an equal number of cloves of garlic, some slices of onion, parsley, and a glass of verjuice ; let it stand over the fire (taking care that it does not boil) until sufficiently done ; then drain and serve it on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Serve with it any fish sauce you think proper. Cod Sauce.—Take a hunch of parsley, cliibbol, two sbalots, two cloves, a hay leaf, some mushrooms, and a bit of butter; soak all together on the fire, adding a small spoonful of flour and milk or cream suffi- cient to boil to the consistence of a sauce; and add to it some chopped parsley, first scalded. Cod (Stuffed.).* — Choose a fine large cod, and having cleansed and washed it, lay it an hour in salt and water; drain it, and fill the body with a farce, made of pounded whitings and anchovies; place it on a tahle-disli, pour over it a bottle of white wine, butter, and chopped parsley; then hake it, and when done, drain off the fat, without removing from the dish. Cover it with sauce a la Menehmilt, strew bread crumbs, and a little Parmesan cheese grated over the fish, and with a feather do it over with melted butter: colour it in the oven, drain it again, clean the dish, and serve with a white sauce Italienne. Cod (Scallops of) en bonne Morue.— Work three spoonsful of Mchamelle over the fire with a good hit of butter, seasoned with pepper and snlt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in tho sauce, and then let them remain in the sauce till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of a dish, put the flakes or scallops of cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it with the salamander. Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Put the flakes of cod into a maitre d'hdtel, season them well, and add the juice of a lemon. Serve them very hot. Cod (Scallops of) in a Vol au Vent.— Prepare the sauce and fish as for Bonne Morue, but not quite so thick. Place a Vol au Vent in the table-dish, and put the cod into it; do not, however, put it in until just as it ought to go to table. Cream sauce may he used en maigre. Cod (Salt).*—The flesh of good salt cod is very white, and tho flakes large; the skin is very dark, almost black, and before • it is dressed it should be soaked in milk : and water, or water alone, for several 1 hours ; if very dry and salt, three days i i ■ will not he too long. When you think the salt sufficiently soaked out, put the fish . • into a fish kettle with plenty of cold water, - set it on the fire; when nearly boiling, skim it, and let it simmer gently till done. Serve with it egg sauce, and garnish your : 1 dish with parsnips. To make the follow- ' ing dishes, the fish should he previously parboiled. Cod (Salt) a VAnglaise*—Cut the fish -| in pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with melted butter, and a glass of broth maigre, ,1 cover it close, and let it stew. Melt some j butter in an equal quantity of cream, add II nutmeg grated, and when w’ell mixed to- - gether, put it into your dish with the cod - over it. 4. J Cod (Salt) au Beurre.*—Roll a piece of 5 butter in a little flour and powder sugar, q and brown it; do some sliced onions in this ; when they are a proper colour, add a spoonful of vinegar to them ; boil up the whole once, and pour it on some flakes of ; boiled salt cod. Garnish with fried par- sley. Con (Salt) in Black Buffer.*—Boil and drain the fish, put it on the dish for table, with half a glass of vinegar, the same of broth, and some coarse pepper, place your dish over the fire, and let it boil for seven or eight minutes, and serve it with black butter poured over it. Con (Salt) a la Bonne l'emmc—Is pre- pared in tlie same way as « la mntfre * d.'hotel, with the addition of potatoes; boil and let them stand till cold; then cut them into slices, the size and thickness of a ball- crown ; do them in the sauce with tho fish. Cod (Salt) d la Bordelaise.*—Take an earthen dish that will bear the fire,and put into it some olive oil, butter, a couple o ■ anchovies, pnrsley, scallions, sbalots, an garlic, all chopped small, and two or tare slices of lemon; put it on the fire, a®