346 MAT MAR sweet herbs, if you like; tie them up in sheeps cauls, aud make your sausages either flat, oval, or round, according to your taste. Marrow Toasts.*—Make a farce with some breast of fowl pounded with herbs, and mixed with yolks of eggs and veal gravy; boil some beef marrow in stock, let it cool, and then cut it in pieces ; spread layers offarce on some slices of fried bread, place the pieces of marrow on it (hut not near enough to touch each other), cover them with another layer of farce; strew bread crumbs over, and colour them in the Dutch oven. Marrow Pudding a la Franfaise.— Take a quarter of a pound of beef marrow, clear away all bones and fibres, blanch it in a little water : bruise and mix it with some Frangipane, and finish in the same manner as Tourte of Frangipane, except making the border higher for the pudding. Marrow Tumblers.-—Set on the fire a pint of cream, three eggs and some powder sugar; let them boil for half an hour, stirring constantly, then add some beef marrow shred very small, a few pounded macaroons, a little grated lemon peel, the yolks of two eggs, and the whites of four whisked to a froth, and a few drops of orange-flower water, still stirring till all is well mixed ; then have ready some small plain moulds about an inch and a half deep, butter them well, put a spoonful of cream in each, and bake them : serve either plain or with nonpareils. The same preparation may also be served as a tourte, but it must not be covered; when baked, stew pow- der sugar over, and glaze with the sala- mander. MARSEILLES, or Ginger*—Take a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, and boil it to fort soufId, add to it an ounce of ginger in powder, remove the pan from the fire, and with a round stick (like a plain round rule) stir the sugar, inclining the Stick towards the sides of the pan, then with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to the edges and put it amongst the liquid, then work it up again with the stick, re- move the solid sugar as before, and repeat this operation four times, when it will have become tolerably thick and firm; pour it into paper cases, about half an inch thick, and with a fork trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges of what size you please ; afterwards, with the point of a knife, mark some of these deeper than the others; when quite cold, take them out of the pa- pers, and separate them, where the lines are deepest. The Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry place, null keep good for a ! long time. Marseilles (Spiced).*—Take a pound | and a half of fine sugar, boil it to cussd• ' take a quarter of preserved orange peel, the |! same of candied lemon peel (or, if you : like it better, two ounces of blanched pis- i tachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put ' them with half an ounce of cloves, the same i of cinnamon (both pounded), into the su- : gar, stir them in gently, continue to boil I j your syrup to forte plume,- then beat it up, ' pour it into cases, and finish as the Mar- ■■ seilles. MATELOTE au Bouillon*—Take the - wings of turkey-poults, pheasants, or par- -| : tridges, with some pieces of wild rabbits, ,1 1 lamb, and slices of bacon; put them into a il stewpan with equal quantities of stock and il ‘ Champagne, half a glass of olive oil, salt, . ; pepper, and garlic; cover the pan close, . : and stew till reduced to court bouillon; . then lay the pieces on a dish, and pour the I j : sauce over them. If it should be too thick, .1 ; add a glass of consomme. Matelote of Butcher’s Meat*—Take j : beef, veal, mutton, and pork, a large slice of each, and a small one of leg of lamb; i cut them in small pieces, which put into a ; saucepan with equal quantities of stock and i1 Champagne, salt and spices, cover them very close, and set them on hot ashes for : six hours, then serve it. Matelote a (a Colonne.*■—Take six fowl pinions, a dozen crayfish, some veal sweet- breads, pieces of rabbit, and a large eel, stuck with anchovies and cut in pieces, three inches long, small onions, morels, I streaked bacon, pepper, salt, and a glass of j stock; set these, except the eel and onions, il on a slow fire for half an hour; then add a pint of Champagne, some more stock, and two spoonsful of oil, and keep them on the fire; put the eel and pinions into a separate ; saucepan, and when three parts done, add . them to the rest, and finish stewing; as soon as the matelote is sufficiently thick, take the pieces out with a fork, arrange 1 them on a dish according to your taste; lay fried bread round, and in the centre the sauce and court bouillon. Matelote Hollandoise*—Take aneckol . veal, two young pigeons, a small fowl or capon, and some turkey’s pinions; P® JJ them into a saucepan with some good stock ; set them on the fire till alwut halt . done, then add a quarter of a pound o rice; cover the whole very close, and let i stew over a small fire tor two hours, then