VER VES 521 Verjuice Marmalade*—Take tlie seeds from your berries, which put into a skillet of boiling water, and set them on the fire; when the berries rise to the surface, cover the skillet, take it from the fire, and place it on hot ashes for two hours, that they may be quite green; at the end of that time pour the whole into a pan; when cold, press the juice from the verjuice, through a sieve into a stewpan, and put it again on the fire that the moisture may evaporate; then take it out quickly, weigh it, boil an equal quantity of sugar to casse, mix the fruit with it, simmer them toge- ther a little while, and then pour it into pots. Verjuice (Preserved).*—Split, and take the seeds from two pounds of verjuice, put the Iruit into a skillet of boiling water, set it on the fire, give it one boil, and then leave it on a very slow fire for five or six hours, covered close; at the end of that time the fruit will be green, and may be drained. Roil two pounds of sugar to petite plume, add the verjuice, boil it up twice with the pan covered ; skim it well, and pour the preserve into jars. Verjuice preserved Dry.*—Scald the verjuice as above, boil your sugar to perle, add the fruit, boil several times, and then pour the preserve into a pan; the next day drain off the syrup, boil it to grand perle, put in the verjuice, cover the pan, give one boil, skim it, and put it aside, the next day drain the verjuice, put it on slates, sprinkle sugar over, and dry it in the oven, or on a stove. Verjuice (Syrup of)*— Crush as much very green verjuice as will yield six pounds of juice; strain the juice, first through a sieve, and then through a jellv- bag until perfectly clear; boil three pounds of sugar to petite plume, pour the juice to |t; take care that the fire is a large one, oil the whole to perle, and then take it oil the fire, and when the syrup is half cold, bottle it. J 1 VERMICELLI Soup d VAllemande.- Mir together in a basin, the yolks of seven eggs, with halt a pint of cream squeezed through a tammy, and the minute before serving the soup to table add this liaison Vermicelli Cream.—Boil some verir celh in milk until it becomes quite a ma malade; let it cool, and then mix with a pint of cream, some macaroni dron orange flowers, and lemon peel, all cho ped very fine, with a little pounded cinn mon, five whole eggs well beaten, an sweeten with powder sugar according to taste; pour it into the dish it is to be served in, and bake it as usual. Vermicelli in Milk.*—Boil the quan- tity of milk you may require, and put into it half a pound of vermicelli, and a suffi- cient quantity of sugar; stir it frequently that the vermicelli may not form a paste : half an hour will be long enough to boil it. A little almond milk may be added when ready for table. Vermicelli Pudding.*—Boil a quarter of a pound of vermicelli with a little cin- namon, in a quart of milk ; in the mean time mix a quarter of a pound of melted butter with a pint of cream, and the yolks of four eggs ; pour in the vermicelli when quite soft; add a little flour and beef mar- row, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat all up, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it. Vermicelli Pudding.—Boil four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new milk, until quite tender, with a stick or two of cinna- mon. Then add half a pint of thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks of four eggs, thoroughly beaten; lay the above in a dish and bake. I ermicelli Soup.*—Take as much good stock as you require for your tureen, strain, and set it on the fire, and when it boils, put in the vermicelli, having first blanched it, and let it simmer for half an hour by a slow fire, that the vermicelli may not burst; the soup ought not to be very thick. Half a pound is sufficient for eight or ten persons. Season with salt and sugar. Vermicelli Soup a. la Jardiniere.*—- Take the same roots as mentioned for a Macedoine, cut them into fillets instead of dice ; cook them in some stock before you put in the vermicelli; season with salt and pepper; skim the soup frequently while boiling. Vermicelli Soup with Onions.*—Cut. the best parts of some onions into very thin pieces, and fry them lightly in a little butter; then add ns much stock as you require for your soup, season it with salt and pepper, put in your vermicelli, and boil for half an hour. If you desire to have merely the flavour of the onions, strain the soup through a tammy before you serve it. VESPETRO.*—Take half a pound of each of the following seeds : Angelica, coriander, fennel, and carrnway ; the rinds of four lemons, and as many oranges : in- fuse all these in two gallons and a half of the best brandy, close the vessel hormeti-