RAB 453 RAB beginning with the legs, make it tight, and tie it. Put it into a stewpan, with some oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set these on the fire till done enough (but without boiling). When sufficiently cooked, take out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then cut it into small pieces, which put into bottles ; fill them with oil and cover wit wet bladders. When required for table take them out, cut them into fillets, and place on a dish with shred parsley and oil. Rabbits (Pulled).—Half boil your rab- bits, with an onion, a little whole pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon peel; pull the flesh into flakes; put to it a little of the liquor, a bit of butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and the liver boiled and bruised; boil this up, shaking it round, and serve. Rabbit (Quenelles of).*—Take the fil- lets and legs of rabbits, separate the meat from the skin and sinews, pound it tho- roughly, and rub it through a quenelle sieve; take an equal quantity of panada, the same of butter, each pounded sepa- rately, and passed through a quenelle sieve; then pound all three together, in a little time add salt, pepper, and spice, still pounding ; add, occasionally, three yolks, and two whole eggs; when sufficiently pounded, make up a ball of it, put it into a saucepan to try if it be properly sea- soned. Whip three whites of eggs to a very firm froth, stir it into the farce with a wooden spoon, instead of the pestle, and finish as usual. Rabbit Quenelles era Terrine*—Make your farce as usual, except that a smaller quantity of butter should be used, poach them in balls, drain them, and lard each carefully with truffles, cut in small slips; when larded, put them into a stewpan, with cocks’-combs and kidneys, two small veal nuts, lamb’s sweetbreads ; put into another stewpan two ladiesful of veloutc one offumet of game, half a bottle of ma- de™, and some champignons, previously fried lightly; reduce this sauce to half, then take out the champignons, and put, them to the quenelles, &c.; make a liaison with four yolks of eggs and an ounce of butter, stir it oyer the fire, but do not let it boil; then strain the sauce over the que- nelles, make the whole hot together, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Rabbits (to roast). — They may be roasted with stuffing and gravy, the same as hare. Serve with sauce made of the liver and parsley, chopped, in melted butter, pepper and salt. Rabbit Salad.—Take some crumb of bread and cut it into small pieces, the same as you cut bacon for larding ; fry it in butter, let it be a nice colour, and then drain it; take the remains of a rabbit that has been roasted, cut the meat into slices, and arrange it in the dish for table upon fried bread; add two anchovies* cut very small, and well washed, some capers, and some small white onions, boiled ; the whole tastefully intermixed; season with salt, coarse pepper, oil, and vinegar. The seasoning is not usually added until the rabbit is placed upon the table. Rabbits Legs au Soiiel.*—Bone the legs, and lard them very closely with ba- con, seasoned with salt, pepper, and pounded spice; warm some butter in a pan, put in the legs, and fry them lightly over a very hot stove ; then add a dessert-, spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, two of veloutd, a bay-leaf, some champignons, half a bottle of white wine, and a bunch of parsley and scallions; set it on a fierce fire, to reduce the liquor; skim it well, and when done and sufficiently reduced, take out the rabbit legs, and set them to cool, stir the yolks of five eggs, and a small piece of butter into the sauce, and pour it over the legs. When cold, dip them in bread crumbs, and let them thoroughly im- bibe the sauce alternately. Beat up five eggs with a little salt, and pepper, dip the legs in, bread them all over, and give them a good form ; fry them in a very hot pan to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Rabbit Soup *—Cut an old rabbit into pieces, put them into a quart of water boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a marble mortar, as for potting; add a little salt, mace, and white pepper, to your taste; stir it into the liquor the rabbit was boiled in, with the addition of a very little cream. Rabbits en Surprise.•—Roast a couple of young rabbits, cut their heads oft’ very- close to the shoulders ; take oft' all the meat from the back, cut it into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with some milk thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little nutmeg, and salt, nnd let them stew for six or eight minutes, until the sauce becomes of the consistence of cream ; make a forcemeat with a pound of veal, the same quantity of suet, an equal quantity of bread crumbs, two anchovies, some lemon peel grated ; a little thyme and a nutmeg grated; mix the whole