43 BEA BAT a pint, when picked; a pound of sun raisins stoned, half a pound of figs cut, a quarter of a pound of dates stoned; half a pound of green liquorice, caraway, fennel, and aniseed, of each one ounce, hartshorn, ivy, elecampane roots, of eacli an ounce; the roots of fennel, asparagus, couchgrass, po- lipodium, and oak parsley, of each a hand- ful : clean,bruise the seeds, slice the roots, and put all into the barley water, cover close, and boil gently for twelve hours; then strain and press out the juice, and let it stand twenty-four hours; when clear, add to it rose water and hyssop, half a pint of each, and a pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, a drachm of saffron, three pints of the best honey, and as many pounds of sugar as quarts of liquor, boil tins an hour and a half, keeping it clean scummed, then bottle it, cork it well, and put by for use. Barley Water.—Put a quarter of a pound of pearl barley into two quarts of water, let it boil, skim it very clean, boil half away, and strain it off. Sweeten ac- cording to taste, and put in two glasses of white wine, or some lemon juice. Drink it warm. Barley Wine.—Boil half a pound of Trench barley in three waters, save about three pints of the last water, and mix it with a quart of white wine, half a pint of borage water, as much clary water, a little red rose water, the juice of five or six lemons, three quarters of a pound of sugar, the rind of a lemon. Strain and bottle it up. BASIL Vinegar or Wine.—Fill a wide- mouthed bottle with fresh green leaves of Basil, and cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days ; if you wish a very strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let it steep fourteen days longer. BAIH Buns.—Rub together, with the Hand, one pound of fine flour, and half a pound of butter ; beat six eggs, and add tHem to the flour with a table-spoonful of ? ° yeast. Mix them altogether with half a tea-cupful of milk ; set it in a ™ P,lace for au h°ur ; mix in six ounces MS LI „SUgUr’ !UKl a few caraway seeds. nn n\d V**0 bMS with a table-spoon on baking-plate ; throw six or eight ca- raway comfits on each, and bake them in a hot oven about ten minutes. These quantities should make eighteen buns BATTER for Fish, Meat, Fritters', %c. —Prepare it with fine flour, salt, a little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine, and tho whites of eggs beat up; when of a proper thickness it will drop out of the spoon about the size of a nutmeg at once. Fry in oil, or hog’s lard. Batter Pudding.—Take six spoonsful of flour, put them in a stewpan with about a tea-spoonful of salt and half a nutmeg grated ; mix this up with about a pint and a half of new milk; beat up six eggs in a basin and stir them well into the "batter; butter a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it tight with a cloth, and boil it two hours and a half; serve with wine sauce. This puddingmay also be baked, for which three quarters of an hour are sufficient. Currants or stoned raisins may be added. Batter Pudding without Eggs.—Mix six spoonsful of flour with a small portion of a quart of milk ; and when smooth add the remainder of the milk, a tea-spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonsful of grated ginger, and two of tincture of saffron ; stir all to- gether well, and boil it an hour. Fruit may be added or not. BEANS d I’Anglaise.*—Cut, wash, and boil the beans, and then throw them into a cullender. Put a piece of butter into your table-dish, lay the beans on it, and garnish them with chopped parsley boiled and laid round like a cord; heat the dish and serve. Beans boiled.—Boil them in water, with plenty of salt in it, till tender. Boil and chop parsley, put it into melted butter, and serve it as sauce. Another way.—Boil in salt and water with a bunch of savory; drain, and then put them into a stewpan with five spoons- ful of sauce tournee reduced, the yolks of three eggs and a little salt, add a piece of fresh butter, and stir it constantly till of a proper thickness. Bean Bread.—Is made in the same way as almond bread ; leave out the musk or ambergris, if you please. Bean Cakes.—lake an equal quantity of fine sugar and blanched almonds cut in slips lengthwise; slice some preserved orange, lemon, and citron peel; beat the white of an egg to a froth with a little orange-flower water; put as much of it into the sugar as will just wet it; and with the point of a lenifo, build up your almonds, piling it round as high as you can upon a wafer ; put some ambergris also to your sugar, and bake them. Beans d la Creme.—Are done in the same way as d. la Macedoine, omitting the artichokes and wine; but not stewed, thicken with cream and yolks of eggs. Beans d la Macedoine.—Shred some