PIG 421 PIG every foot put a bay-leaf; when tliey are well soaked, add some cloves, mace, cori- ander-seed, and ginger; put a bottle of white wine to three pair of leet and ears, some bay-leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs ; let them boil gently till they are tender, then take them out of the liquor, lay them in an earthen pan; when cold, take oft' the fat, and strain the liquor over them. They Seat well cold, or warmed in the jelly, thickened with butter rolled in flour ; or take the feet and ears out of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, and then in crumbs of bread, and broil them, or fry them in butter; lay the ears in the middle, and the feet round; or ragout them. Pig’s Feet and Ears (Ragout of).-—Take them out of the pickle, split the feet, dip them in ess;, then in bread crumbs and chopped parsley ; fry them in lard, drain them ; cut the ears into long narrow slips, flour them, put them into good gravy; add ketchup, morels, and pickled mush- rooms ; stew them, pour them into a dish, and lay the feet upon them. Pig’s Feet and Ears (Soused).—Clean them, and boil them till they are tender ; then split the feet, and put them and the ears in salt and water. When you use them, dry them well in a cloth, dip them in batter, fry them, and send them to table with melted butter in a boat. They may be eaten cold, and will keep a considerable time. Pig’s Feet with Truffles*—Cut the feet in halves, tie and dress them as directed for le Ste. Menchould, but when they have simmered eight hours, remove them from the fire ; when about half cold, take them out of the sauce, and bone them ; make a farce as follows : Take equal portions of the white parts of cold roasted fowl, crumb of bread, and ready dressed calf’s udder, pound them all, at first separately, and then all together; mix them with three or four yolks of eggs, some minced truffles, a little cream, salt, pepper, and spices; these being well amalgamated, add a few truffles, cut in slices. Put this farce into the spaces left by the bones, cover it with either calf’s or pig’s caul; keep them in their proper form, dip them in melted butter, and bread them. About twenty minutes before serving, broil them slowly on both sides. Serve them with- out sauce. Pig’s Head (Collared).— Very nicely scout* the head and ears ; take off the hair and. snout, and take out the eyes and brain; let it lay for one night in water; then drain it; salt it extremely well, with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie for live days. Boil it sufficiently to take out the bones ; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other, to make the roll of an equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears; and, if you think proper, put the pig’s feet round the out- side, when boned, or the thin parts of, a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put it under a weight, and do not take off the covering until it is quite cold. If you wish it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put in also some pieces of lean pork, and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled with vinegar. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it, either with or without batter. Pig’s Kidneys with Champagne*—Mince the kidnies, and put them with a bit of butter, shred parsley and shalot, salt, pep- per, and nutmeg, into a pan, toss it up, and when lightly browned, add a dessert spoonful of flour, stir it in, and then pour on a glass of champagne ; stir all together over the fire, without letting it boil. Pig’s Liver and Brains in Caul*— Mince half a pound of pig’s liver, and three quarters of a pound of fat: mix them together, season with salt, pepper, spices and dried herbs ; take some pig’s caul cut in pieces, in each of which tie up a portion of the above ; flatten them and broil them on a moderate fire. Pig’s brains are done precisely in the same way. Pig’s Liver (Fromage of).*-—Take three pounds of liver, two pounds of bacon, and half a pound of beef; mince them all to- gether, and then add shred parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, aromatic herbs, and spices, pounded; lay over the bottom of a mould or saucepan, very thin slices of bacon, on which spread the above farce, to about three inches in thickness; put a layer of seasoned lardons on this, then the farce again, and so on, alternately, till the mould is full; cover it with slices of ba- con, and put it in the oven; bake it for three hours. When cold, dip the mould in hot water, which will enable you to turn out the fromage with ease ; make it hot in the bain-marie before you serve it.