BAB yr BAC AUSTRIAN Soup.—Cut a large chicken BACCHIC Cream*—Put a pint and a in pieces; try it in butter with sweet half of white wine, with some lemon peel, herbs ; boil it in good broth, and then roll coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and it in crumbs of bread and Parmesan cheese; three ounces of sugar, into a stewpan, and colour it with a salamander. Lay thin let them boil a quarter of an hour ; then slices of bread with grated Parmesan mix half a tea-spoonful of flour with the cheese on them, then a layer of cabbages yolks of six eggs in another stewpan, and with more slices of bread ; add the broth, stir in by degrees the other previously and stew till it catches a little at bottom ; boiled ingredients. When about half cold, grate on a little more cheese ; hrown it, strain the whole through a sieve, and put it add a little more broth, and serve the in a dish or mould in hot water, over the BABA.—Take three pounds of flour, stock, and a pint of white wine, boil them one quarter of which put apart and mix together till reduced to nearly half; then into dough, with a gill of good yeast and put in some shalots, garden cress, ’tarra- a little warm water ; cover it close in a gon, chervil, parsley, leeks, &c. all shred stewpan and set it by the fire to rise; when very fine, season with whole pepper and you see the dough rise and nearly ready, salt. Boil up the whole together once ; form the other parts of the flour in a circle serve with a little cullis. This sauce is’ on the table, in the centre of which put good with any meat. half an ounce of salt, one ounce of sugar, BACON to broil'.— Make up a sheet of a pound and a half of butter, and twelve paper into the form of a dripping-pan ; cut ®88s> w*th a table-spoonful of saffron your bacon into thin slices, cut oft’ the (mix the butter and eggs well together rind, lay the bacon on the paper, put it on before you put it to the flour) ; when all is the gridiron, set over a slow fire, and it will mixed spread it out, and put the dough broil cleanlv. chicken at the top. fire, till the cream is set; lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool place till ready to serve. B. Bacchic Sauce.*—Put a spoonful of fine oil into a saucepan, with half a pint of good “'“uiu, uiuve in a luieraoiy not oven, brick oven is the best. a in the middle. The cabbages should be 1 ~OJ having buttered a mould, preparation and bake it. ’ J)ac°n, vajmnoit, to bake.—Lay it to I r in your steep all night in water, scrape it olean. and stuff it with all manner of sweet