I CHE 149 CHE drv. Make a light batter, in which put a little brandy, Madeira, and melted butter; dip the cherries in this, drain, and fry them to a nice colour in a moderately hot pan ; then drain them again ; sprinkle line jsugar over, and serve them. Cherry Fritters a la Daupliine.*— Pick three quarters of a pound of line cherries, and boil them live or six times with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; take out the cherries, drain them, and boil the sugar to la nappe ; then put in the cherries again, and leave them to cool. In the mean while roll out a pound of brioche paste; make your fritters as directed (see Fritters a la Daupliine), and put live or ■six cherries in each. Fry them of a nice colour; glaze, and serve them quickly. Cherry Gdteau a la Parisienne.*—Take the stones and stalks from a pound and a half of sweet cherries, and having mixed them with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of powder sugar, finish the Gdteau as directed (see Gateau Parisienne of Apples). lo make this Guteau of currants, the same quantity of fruit is necessary; the seeds of the latter must be removed. Cherry Ice.*—Take the stones and ■stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, bruise, and set them on the fire with a little water, and half a pound of sugar. IV hen they have boiled, pass them through a hair sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful of the kernels, put them in a basin with the juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a pound of sugar au petit «sse, and strain on them the lemon juice and kernels ; mix the whole together, and put it in a sabotiere, with pounded ice. W ork the cherries up with it well, until it has 8et, then place it in glasses. Cherry Ice Cream.—Take half a pound •0‘preserved cherries, pound them, stones and all; put them into a basin, witli one g|U of'syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a inn of cream, pass it through a sieve, and ireeze it according to custom. Cherry Jnm—Having stoned and boiled •in u P0lJnt^s bne cherries, bruiso them, to0 juice run from them ; then boil P,e ,der'Ilult !l pound of red currant juice, elm 'a !l pouncl of loat sugar, put the •ernes into these whilst they are boiling, non frr.?n tllem three quarters of a verve ° f [t?d sugar. Boil all together inti fi’St f°‘ lnlf an llour, and then put it papers’0'3' When C°ld I,ut on brandy Cherry Jelly *—Take the stones and stalks from two pounds of fine clear ripe cherries; mix them with a quarter of a pound of red currants, from which the seeds have been extracted; express the juice from these fruits, filter and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, and one ounce of isinglass. Finish the same ns Barberry jelly. Cherry Jelly.—Having taken the stalks and stones from two pounds of dark red fleshy cherries, put them in a basin - pound the kernels, and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a tammy. Mash the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting in first half a pot of currant jelly, then the kernels, and lastly, the lemon juice; mix these together well; then having boiled and skimmed a pint of thick clarified sugar and isinglass, put the cherries into a jelly bag, pour the sugar, &c. over them; run it through till quite clear. If not sufficiently sweet, add more sugar, if the contrary, add more lemon juice. Wet the mould, set it in ice, and fill it with the jelly; do not turn it out till the last minute. Cherries in Jelly.—Slit half a pound of green gooseberries in the side, that pare of their juice may run out; put them into pots with a little water in each ; cover the pots very close, and put them in a sauce- pan of water over the fire till the goose- berries are quite clear; stone a pound of cherries, and beat a pound of double-re- fined sugar, strew some of it in a basin, and put on it a layer of cherries, cover them with sugar ; add five or six spoons- ful of the gooseberry liquor, put them on the fire, and let them boil gently, till the sugar is melted, then they may boil fast; skim it well. As soon as it jellies in the spoon it is done enough. Cherries (to Iceep).—Cut the stalks carefully from sound and perfectly dry cherries, and put them into clean and dry bottles; when full, cork them tight, and resin or seal them. Bury them in the ground with the corks downwards. Cherry Marmalade— Choose tho ripest, largest, best red-coloured cherries, you can meet with, and take double the weight of cherries to tho sugar ; stone and tail; and then put them on a gentle fire, and keep stirring them till reduced to halt. Clarify and boil your sugar to petit casse, then add the fruit to it, and stir it until you can see tho bottom of the pan ; the marmalade is then sufficiently done, and may be put into pots. Cherry Marmalade.*—Boil two pounds of sugar, with two glasses of water, skim