RIC 459 RIC again : if by this time the rice is per- fectly soft, take it off; but if not, add a little more liquid, and continue boiling until it is so; place the saucepan aslant on the side of the stove that the fat may drain away and be taken off easily. As soon as the rice is lukewarm, work it into a firm smooth paste with a spatula; it can hardly be worked up too much, as every grain of rice ought to pass under pressure. If necessary, add more stock, a very little at a time. When the paste is thus thoroughly worked up, form your casserole of it, first laying it in a heap, four or five inches high, and seven in diameter ; do it with the hand, as you would a raised crust; make the ornaments of the outer surface with the point of a knife, or by carrots cut for the purpose, taking care that the de- corations be detached from the mass of rice at least an inch; attention to this particular will not only add to the beauty of the form, but to the colour also, as the raised parts will be lightly coloured, while the ground will be quite white. When properly formed, mask the whole surface with clarified butter, and place it in a hot oven for an hour and a half, by which time it will be of a fine clear yellow. Take off the top of your casserole, clear away all the rice from the inside that does not adhere to the crust (which ought to be very thin), and then fill your casserole with such ra- gouts as your fancy may dictate ; glaze the surface of the outer ornaments, and serve it. Water, with butter and salt, is fre- quently thought preferable to the stock, &c., as the rice is thereby rendered much whiter. Rice (Casserole of').—Well wash and pick a pound of Caroline rice, blanch it in boiling water, strain it off, put it into a stewpan to boil with just sufficient stock to allow it to stew quite soft, but not more than it can absorb completely up; put a little salt in, and let it stew gently on a slow stove, stir it well and be careful to make it very firm and stiff; have a casserole mould ready and press the rice well into it, turn it out neatly and fill with whatever currie or ragoAt you think pro- per. This is the cleanest and most pa- latable method. Rice Cheese.*—Boil an ounce of rice, thick as hasty pudding, in rather less than half a pint of milk (new) ; pour it hot on an ounce and half of butter, the same weight of Lisbon sugar, mixing it well together; let it stand till cold ; then add one egg, and the yolk of another, and a little white wine. Rice Cream * — Mix some rice flour with half a glass of cold milk ; then by degrees, add a pint more, also cold, and put it with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, set it on a slow fire for an hour and a half, then strain and flavour it with orange- flower water, sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. It should be stirred fre- quently whilst boiling; eggs may be added if you think proper. Rice (Croquettes of).*—Wash and scald a quarter of a pound of rice, put it into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, shred small, a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped orange flowers, an ounce of butter, and half a pint of milk; set these on the fire, and when the rice is quite soft, add the yolks of four eggs, stir them in over the fire, but do not let them boil; pour the preparation on a large tin or slab, spread it equally ; let it cool, and then divide it into small equal parts; roll these into balls, dip them into an omelet, roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them in a very hot pan. As soon as the croquettes are of a nice colour, drain, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and serve them. Rice (Croquettes of) stuffed with Mar- malade.—Simmer your rice till thoroughly done and quite thick in some sweetened milk as for sweets, form a croquette, make a hole in the middle into which you intro- duce the marmalade close it up; egg and bread crumb them twice over, fry them of a nice colour in lard, and serve hot. Rice Custards without Cream *—One tea-spoonful of rice-flour, a pint of new milk, the yolks of three eggs, a table- spoonful of ratafia (or two or three laurel leaves hoiled in), sugar to your taste; mix the rice very smooth, and stir it with the eggs into the boiling milk, until thick. Arrowroot is better than rice. Rice Flummery.—Boil a pint of new milk, with a bit of lemon peel and cinna- mon ; then mix just sufficient rice flour, with a little cold milk, as will make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten ac- cording to taste, flavour with a little pounded bitter almond; boil it, taking care not to let it burn ; pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When the flummery is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard, all round, or serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Rice Fritters.—(See Croquettes of 11 ice)*