301 IIOG HER but do not let them take colour: make a paper case, over the bottom of which lay some farce, to the depth of half an inch ; oil the case, and set it on a gridiron, over- hot ashes : as soon as the gratin is formed, put in the roes, strew raspings over them: do them in a Dutch oven before a mode- rate lire, a few minutes is sufficient, take off the fat, and serve the roes with espag- nole, and lemon juice. Herrings {Soft Roes of), en Caisses.— Make a paper case to fit the dish you in- tend to use, and spreud butter over the bottom of it. Broil eight soft-roed her- rings ; when done take out the roes very carefully, and lay them in a case. Sprinkle ■ pepper, salt, grated bread, and shred j parsley, over them ; butter and bake them in a hot oven; when done, pour a maitre d'hotel into the case, and the juice of a i lemon : serve them very hot. Herrings {Stewed).-—Clean and put the errings into a fish-kettle, with a sufiicient quantity of stock to cover them; add two r three cloves, a carrot, pepper-corns, an onion, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, pars- ley, and half a bottle of port wine. Stew the fish in this till done, then take them out, keep them hot, strain, and reduce the liquor with a little sauce tournee-, then pass it through a tammy into another stewpan, stir in a little butter and lemon juice, dish your herrings, and pour this sauce over them. Herrings (Red;.*—Take half a dozen red herrings, cut off the heads and tails, split them along the back, and open them; lay them on a dish and pour oil on them; broil them on both sides (two or three seconds are sufficient); take them off, and serve them instantly. Herrings {Red) a la Bruxelloise*— Make a case with thick paper, butter it well, and lay in it eight or ten herrings, prepared as follows : cut off the heads and taijs, take away the bones and skins, and cut them lengthwise into two fillets; put between ^ each fillet a piece of butter, mixed with sweet herbs, some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, sbalots, garlic, pepper, and olive oil; sprinkle them pretty thickly with raspings, broil them slowly over a gentle fire, so as not to burn the paper, in which they must be served, whilst very hot, with lemon juice squeezed over them. Herrings {Red), with Herbs.* — Take the best red herrings, skin and take off the heads and tails; cut them into fillets lengthwise, and soak them in milk for four hours, then drain and put them into a saucepan with some butter, a little oil, parsley, and sweet herbs (shred small), salt, and pepper; let them simmer for half an hour, take off the fat, and serve them hot: if the sauce be too thick add a little orange juice. Herrings {Red), a I’ltalienne.*—Soak the herrings to take out the salt; open and clean them well, flour them inside and outside, fry them in butter and oil, serve them laid on fried parsley. HIPPOCRAS.*—lake one ounce of cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two penny weights of cloves; nutmeg, and galangal a penny-weight of each. Pound these together well, and infuse them in a pint of red or white wine, and a pint of malmsey ; to this, add a pound of the best loaf sugar. These proportions will make a quart of the liquor. Hippocras {red).—Pour a gallon of claret into an earthen pan, put to it a blade of mace, some long pepper, four grains of white pepper, a drachm of cinna- mon, and a little of coriander-seed (all bruised separately); add two pounds of powder sugar, and a dozen sweet almonds pounded. Hippocras (white).—Take a gallon of white wine, two ounces of cinnamon, two pounds of sugar, a little mace (all in powder), a few peppercorns, and a couple of lemons cut in quarters. When these have infused some time, strain it three or four times through a jelly-bag. This liquor may be flavoured with musk, or ambergris, by tying a small quantity of either drug (beaten, with a little sugar) in a piece of cloth, and putting it in the bag through which it is strained. HOG’S Blood.*—Cut an onion into dice, and fry it in either butter or lard, when done, pour in the blood, stir it well, add boiled rice, or barley, and season it very high with pepper and salt. Hoc’s Cheeks {to Dry).—Having cut the snout and taken out the brains, split the head, remove the upper bone, rub the cheeks well with salt, and let it stand : the next day, rub away that, and add fresh salt; the following day, cover the head with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay, and a little common salt, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, turn it frequently. When it has lain thus ten days, take it out, and smoke it like bacon. Hog’s Eo-s Forced.—Parboil two or three pair o fhog’s oars : then take an an- chor f, some sage, parsley, and half a