39 BAR BAR BALSAM (Syrup of).—Put an ounce of balsam of Tolu into a quart of spring water, and boil them two hours; add a pound of white pounded sugarcandy, and boil it half an hour longer. Take out the balsam, and strain the syrup twice ; when cold, bottle it. BAMBOO (English).—Cut the large young shoots of elder, take off the outer peel or skin, and lay them in strong salt and water one night. Dry each piece separately in a. cloth. Have ready a pickle made as follows: To a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, the same of sliced ginger, a little mace and pimento, pour this boiling hot on the elder shoots, in a stone jar, stop it close, and set it by the fire two hours, turning it often. If not green when cold, strain off the liquor, boil, and pour it on as before. BANBURY Cakes. Make some dough with two table-spoonsful of thick yeast, a gill of warm milk, and a pound of flour; when it has worked a little, mix with it half a pound of currants washed and picked, half a pound of candied orange and lemon peel cut small, allspice, ginger, and nut- meg, of each a quarter of an ounce ; mix the whole together -with half a pound of honey. Put them into puff paste, cut in an oval form, cover and sift sugar over: bake them a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. BARBADOES Cream.*—Take the zests of three fine cedrats, two" drachms of cinnamon, and two of mace, and put them into three quarts of brandy; close the vessel hermetically, and let it infuse lor a week, then distil it in an alembic. Dissolve over the fire three pounds of sugar in a quart of pure river water, add to it half a pound of orange-flower water work the mixture, and filter it through a straining bag into bottles for use. Barbadoes Water.—Take the outer nnd of eight large florentine citrons, half an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and a gallon of rectified spirit; distil in the bain-mlT- dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water; mix it with the distilled liquor • filter and bottle it for use 1 ' In&D0ES„Water (amber-coloured)._ Infuse the yellow nnd of six bergamots dlf an ounce ot cinnamon, and two drachms of cloves bruised, for six clays ,n apl'on of rectified spirit; then add^a drachm of saftron, and let the whole stand six days longer. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add it to the infusion, and filter for use. BARBEL boiled.—Boil them in salt nnd water: when sufficiently done, pour away part of the water, and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, some nutmeg, mace, and the juice of a lemon ; thicken it a little with rouse, boil these well together with two or three anchovies, then put in the fish, simmer a short time, and serve it with the sauce strained over it. Shrimps or oysters may be added. Barbel broiled.—Do them in white paper, with sweet herbs chopped small, and butter. Barbel broiled with Sauce a. VHuile.* —Take a barbel; gut it, scrape off the scales, wash it, let it drain; wipe it dry, and split it down the back. Then' ma- rinate it in oil, with salt and whole pep- per ; broil it whole, being very careful not to let it burn. Sprinkle it with oil; turn it, and take care that the white side is of a nice colour ; when it is broiled, dress it in a dish, and garnish with slices of lemon (taking out the pips and the white) ; and serve with Sauce a I’huile. Barbel, ait court Bouillon.—Take a good-sized barbel and draw it, but not scale it; lay it on a dish and throw on it vinegar and salt, scalding hot; then put into your fishpan, white wine, verjuice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, bay leaves, onion, lemon or orange peel, set it on the fire, and when it boils very fast, put in. your barbel, and when boiled enough, take it up and serve it dry upon a clean napkin, with anchovy sauce and capers. Barbel, Poupeton of.—Scale, bone, and skin two or three barbels of a moderate size, lay the flesh on a table with the flesh of a good-sized eel, some mushrooms, parsley, and slialots, minced and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sweet basil shred; pound three or four cloves, with a dozen coriander seeds in a mortar and sift it, then put in the minced fish, with a good piece of butter, and pound all together; set these simmering in milk or cream, and about a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread ; beat up in it the 3-olks of four eggs when it is thickened enough, and let it stand to cool; then put into a mortar the yolks of four raw eggs, and the bread and cream when it is cold, and pound it well together. Then make a ragout of slices of barbel ns follows ; first peel small mushrooms, cut some slices of barbel, rub them with melted butler and broil them; set a saucepan over the firo