RI1U 458 RIC whole pepper, a glassful of mustard; pound again, mix in a glass of oil the yolks of two or three raw eggs, and four or five dessert-spoonsful of vinegar; when all these ingredients are thoroughly amal- gamated, strain the whole through a bolt- ing, like a puree; it ought to be rather thick. If not green enough, add a liftle spinach-essence. Remo u lade (Indian').*—Pound the yolks of ten hard eggs to a paste, dilute it with eight spoonsful of oil, put in one at a time, and continue pounding all the time; then add about a dozen allspice, a tea-spoonful of saffron, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, salt, and pepper; amalgamate the whole perfectly, strain it through a bolting-cloth, and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauce should be rather thick, as well as the preceding. RENNET.— As soon as the calf is killed, take out the stomach, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain for a few hours, after which sew it up with two large liandsful of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Rennet.—Prepare the maw the same as in the above receipt: on the following day, put a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose- leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoonsful of salt, into two quarts of fresh spring water ; let them boil gently till the water is reduced to three pints, then strain it oft', and when only milk warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, and add to it; in two days strain it again, and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may be put in also ; take care that it is sufficiently salt. If the maw bo again salted for a few days, and dried as above, it will be quite as fit for use as before ; it should be kept in a cool dry place. A small quantity of the liquid is sufficient for turning. RHUBARB Tart.—Let the stalks be of a good size, take off the thin skin, and cut them into lengths of four or five’ inches ; lay them in a" dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water ; cover with another dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour upon a hot hearth, or do them in a blocktin saucepan. As soon as cold make it into a tart; when tender, the baking the crust will be sufficient; or you may cut the stalks into little bits, the size of goose- berries, and make your tart the same as gooseberry tart. RICE Biscuits*—Take the grated rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, the yolks of six, half a pound of rice-flour, ten ounces of powder-sugar, two ounces of apple, and the same of apricot marmalade, and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound the marmalades and orange-flowers to- gether, then add the whites of eggs, whip- ped to a snow ; beat the yolks with the sugar for a quarter of an hour, put them to the rest, and when well mixed in, add the lemon-peel and rice-flour; work all together, pour the preparation into paper cases, bake them in a moderate oven, and glaze them. Rice Bread.—Take a pound of rice, and let it simmer in two quarts of water till it is quite tender; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it thoroughly with four pounds of flour, adding yeast and salt, the same as for other bread. The proper quantity of yeast to be used, is about four spoonsful; knead it well; then set it to rise before the fire. A portion of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than other. Rice Cake.*—Take six ounces of ground rice, six ounces of flour, three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, sifted, nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; mix all well together, grate in the rind of a lemon, and beat it well half an hour. Rice (Cassolettes of).—Prepare the rice as for casserole; fill some dariole moulds with this rice, make a hole in them by pressing a round piece of carrot into the rice ; fill this cavity with an emincee of cold fowl, close it up with more rice, turn out the cassolettes from the moulds, dip them into beaten eggs, and then into bread-crumbs, twice repeated; fry them of a nice colour in hot lard. Rice (Casserole'of).*—Take a pound and a half of Carolina rice, wash it thoroughly in several waters (warm), and then put it into a saucepan, at least eight inches in diameter; moisten it with stock in this proportion : if the rice lies an inch thick, let the stock come two inches above it, and four ladiesful of fowl skimmings; place the saucepan on a hot stove ; when the rice boils, set it on the side, and skim it; then put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil slowly for fifteen to twenty mi- nutes ; stir it, 'let it boil as before; in twenty or twenty-five minutes, stir it