105 CAL CAL white wine and consommd, add parsley, green onions, and slices of lemon, without the seeds and peel. Cover them with bacon and buttered paper ; cook them over a stove ; when done, place them on a dish, and pour over them sauce allemande. Calf’s Brains in Black Butter.—Clean, soak, and blanch three or four calves’ brains ; put them into a saucepan full of boiling water, with a little salt and half a glass of vinegar; let them remain in this till cold, which will make them firm. Cook them in a good marinade for three quarters of an hour, and when ready to serve, pour some black butter into the dish, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Calf’s Brains au Blanc-mange.*—When the brains are well cleansed and soaked, place them on two slices of bacon, and two of lemon, in a stewpan, with a glass of stock. When sufficiently done, take them out, and when cool, cut them in strips, and pour over them white sauce, cream boiled with yolks of eggs, or any other cream sauce you please. Calf’s Brains breaded *—Prepare them as for plain boiling, soak them for two hours in vinegar : take them out, and roll them in eggs beaten to a thick snow, cover them with bread crumbs, and either broil or fry them. Calf's Brains (Coquilles of).*—Cut some calf’s brains into twelve pieces, and put into a saucepan mushrooms and truf- fles, tossed up in a little white wine • re- duce them to jelly, and then add two spoonsful of allemande, and one of veloute ; boil these, and put to them a little butter, parsley, and lemon juice, put in the brains, mix them altogether, and put them into scallop shells, cover them with bread crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese, pour a little melted butter over, and brown them. Calf’s Brains and Crayfish.*—Boil the brains in a little stock, drain, and place them on a dish, so that the end of eacli piece may meet in the middle. Take the tails and claws from as many crayfish as you please, and place one between each piece of the brain. Put one in the middle, ivith the tail and claws on. Pour over the brains either butter of crayfish or tomata sauce. Calf’s Brains, Crdpinelles of*—Divide six boiled calves’ brains each in half - cut a dozen large onions into dice, scald’ and boil them with a bit of butter, salt) garlic pepper, nutmeg, and bay leaf; when done, put in two ladiesful ot veloute, reduce the whole to the consistence of butter, and then add the yolks of four eggs, and a piece of butter, wrap each half brain in this, and surround it with a pork caul. Dress and serve them with a clear aspic sauce. Calf’s Brains, Cromesquis of.—Cut the brains, a veal sweetbread, a dozen mush- rooms, and four truffles, into dice ; put the two latter into some allemande, and re- duce it, then add the brains and sweet- bread, and a little nutmeg; stir them to- gether, and set them to cool. Mould them in pieces about the size of a little finger; take some cold calf’s udder, and cut it into thin slices, and lay a roll on each, and wrap it up ; dip them in batter, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Brains fried.* — Prepare and dress the brains as for pot.Ices, then cut them into six pieces, and put them into a basin, with salt, pepper, and vinegar, till just before they are wanted, when they should be drained ; put them into batter and fry them; drain them again, and place them on a dish round a pyramid of fried parsley. Calf’s Bruins in Jelly*—Put some aspic jelly into a plain round mould, and set it in ice ; and as soon as the jelly is well set, turn it on the table-dish, which must be placed over pounded ice ; put on the jelly a whole calfs brain, cover it en- tirely with iced Montpellier butter (see the Recipe) ; on this lay three more brains boiled very white ; ornament the top with pieces of jelly, and garnish your dish with a border of jelly or coloured butter, and serve. Calf’s Brains d la Magnonnaise.* — Cleanse and soak five calves’ brains in cold water for some hours ; drain and put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt and half a glass of tarragon vinegar; take out the brains carefully, and put them in a pan of cold water. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, lay in the brains, and on them sliced lemons ; cover the whole with bacon and buttered paper; add a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions stuck with cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the brains; when it boils, set the stewpan by the sido of the fire, and keep it simmering for an hour; let the brains cool in their liquor and then drain them on a napkin ; divide each brain in half, trim and place them en couronne on the table-dish ; garnish them with a border of jelly, and in the spaces between each half brain, lay a