CRE CRE 204 breaking; then take them from the cream V'ith a slice or skimmer; break three or four raw eggs; turn the slices of bread in the eggs, and fry them in clarified butter, till they are of a good brown colour, taking great care not to burn or black them ; scrape a little sugar round them. Drain tliem well irom the butter in which they were fried, and serve them hot for a second course. Cream lourte a I’Anglaise.*—Prepare a crust in the usual way, and fill it with a pretty firm cream patissiere, mixed with two ounces of raisins, stoned, an ounce of ce- drat, cut into dice, a little crisped orange flower, the rind of a lemon, grated on some •sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg-, grated, and half a glass of white wine. When filled, bake it like other tourtes, and serve it hot. Cream Tourte with Spinach.*—Wash and blanch about two bandsful of spinach; chop it very small, and put it into a sauce- pan, with three ounces of butter; stir it over a moderate fire, and when all the water is evaporated, add four spoonsful of cream patissiere, half a glass of double cream, three ounces of powder sugar, two of bitter macaroons crushed, a little crisped orange flower, and a grain of salt. Mix these ingredients together well, and pour it into a crust prepared in the usual way; mask the top of the cream with filberts, blanched and mixed with a spoonful of powder sugar. Bake, and serve it hot. _ Cream au Vin.*—Mix the yolks of eight eggs with a proper quantity of powder sugar; to which add by degrees a bottle of Frontignae, or any other sweet and aromatic wine; stir it constantly; put into the bain-marie, and keep itstirrino- until the cream is set, and sufliciently done. Cream ( White or Natural').—Take a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and a bit of sugar; boil them together till they are reduced to one third, and when the milk is sufliciently cool that you can bear pur finger in it, dilute a little rennet with water, in a spoon; mix it well with the cream, and strain the whole through a sieve; then take the dish in which you intend serving, and set it over some hot cinders ; pour in the cream ; cover it with a lid that will admit fire upon it; and when the cream is set, put it in a place to cool. Serve cold. Cream ( Whipped).—Take a pint of thick cream, put it in a basin or stewpan, and beat it up with a whisk to a strong froth, then mix it in a little powder sugar, and arange-flower water; serve it in a small basket made with paste, and garnish round with sweet rusks. If your cream should not soon froth, as sometimes it will not, be careful that you do not beat it to butter. Cream ( Whipped).*—Put into a pan a quart of good double cream, which has been kept for two hours in pounded ice ; add to it a little gum dragon in powder, i and whisk the cream for at least a quarter of an hour, when it will have become properly frothed. Lay it on a napkin to I drain thoroughly, and then mix it care- fully with six ounces of powder sugar ; and the instant before you send it to table add to it whatever you intend to flavour it with. Serve your cream in a raised tart-crust, or iced vol au vent, and orna- mented with a sultane; or it may be placed on layers of almond paste, or simply in a silver dish. Cream (Whipped).*—Put some good cream, with a proportionate quantity of powder sugar, a pinch of gum dragon, and a little orange-flower water, into a pan; whip it to a froth, with an osier whisk ; as the froth rises, let it stand an instant, and then take it off gently with a skimmer, and place it on a dish like a pyramid; garnish your dish with green lemon or orange chips, and serve it. Cream (Whipped) au Caramel.*— Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and when it has required the proper reddish- yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass of boiling water, over hot ashes; after which, it must be reduced to a rather thick syrup. When cold, mix it with the whipped cream in the usual way. See Whipped Cream. To this may be added the flavour of any ingredients you desire, by putting a small quantity of it into the sugar, the moment it attains its proper colour : for instance, a spoonful of starred anise, orange flowers, pralinees, a dozen of bitter macaroons, or filberts, crushed, &c. Cream (Whipped) Printaniere.* — Dilute two spoonsful of essence of spi- nach, strained by degrees, with half a glass of Italian maraschino; pour this mixture, and six ounces of powder sugar, to whipped cream as directed. See Whipped Cream. Instead of the liqueur, the zests of a couplo of lemons, a sweet or Seville orange, or cedrat rasped on sugar, may be used. Strawberries or raspberries may also bo placed here and there on the cream. Cream (Whipped) aui Quatre Zestcs*—