276 GEN GHE mny, if you think proper, ornament them, which is done in the following manner: Do them all over with a glace royale of dif- ferent colours according to your taste, and place them in the stove a minute or two to dry the glace ; when cold, garnish them with apple or currant jelly. Genoises Glaces a l' Itulienne* Having baked and cut the genoises, place them on a sheet of white paper. Clarify and then boil to soujfld half a pound ot sugar; as soon as it reaches that degree take the pan from the fire, and set the bottom of it in cold water ; take up the sugar, and haying whipped the whites of three eggs, mix them by degrees with the sugar; coyer the genoises with this glace, then place them in a stove for a quarter of an hour to dry. This glace may be tinged of various colours by adding to 'it the different articles used for colouring sugar, almonds, &c. bee those articles. Genoises (Paste /or).*—Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of butter; rub the rinds ot two or three lemons upon a part of the su- gar, crush it with the rolling pin, and then roll it to a very fine powder ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put into it a little salt, four yolks and tour whole eggs, the butter and sugar; work them together well, and having made your paste, roll it out, and cut it it into bands, which roll to the size of your little finger ; cut them of equal lengths, and form them into S s or horse-shoes; slit the sides and ends, lay them on buttered tins, dorez, and bake them in an oven, rather hotter than for baking biscuits. , . Genoises Small.*—Take some almond paste, and having worked it up well, add to it a little gum-dragon, and a little starch, both in powder. Sprinkle a sheet of paper with powdev sugar, lay the almond paste over it. and sprinkle that also with sifted sii°,ar instead of flour; then take a small round paste-cutter, and cut as many pieces from the paste as you may require ; then cut an equal number of strips, each long enough to surround the tartlet, and about half an inch wide ; fix these hands to the tartlets with the white of an egg Put a layer of the almond-paste on a table dish, acid a rim to it, leaving the edge either plain or notched, as you please; place on {his lever as many genoises (prepared as above) as it will contain, and the"P“‘ them in a stove or oven to dry. W hen wanted for table, fill them according to your taste, with three or four sorts of preserves. GHERKINS.*—Dutch gherkins are es- teemed the best sort; when boiled, they are used in garnishing salads, and likewise to make ragouts; they are done in the following manner : Boil them a moment in water to take off the strength of the vine- gar ; then put them into a good sauce or: ragout, not allowing them to boil again ; ; serve with any dish you think proper. Gherkins (Pickled).*—Choose the green- est gherkins, and having cut off the tails - and heads, rub them to remove the down ; wash, dry, and lay them in a jar ; pour r over a sufficient quantity' of the best vine- • »ar to cover the gherkins, and let them: stand; after three days, draw off the vinegar, and boil it; when the quantity is a little lessened, throw in the gherkins, and boil them together; then pour the whole r into the jar again. In about five or six days take them out, and boil again, adding : garlic, tarragon, and salt; put them into the jar, which must not be covered until the vinegar is perfectly cold. Gherkins (Pickled).*—Choose your gher- kins as above, very green and straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, sprinkle them with fine salt, then another layer of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also; leave them in the salt for twentyT-four hours, which will draw all the water from them; at the end of that time drain and place them in ajar, with a handful of all- spice, the same of tarragon, a little balm, ten shalots, six cloves of garlic, two or three long peppers, twenty cloves, a lemon cut in quarters, and two small handsful of salt. Boil two gallons of the best vinegar, pour it over the gherkins, and let them stand till the next day, when boil the vine- oar a second time, and pour it on asjainj the following day boil the vinegar for the third and last time, pour it over the gher- kins, and, when quite cold, cover the jar with a wet parchment. Gherkins preserved wet. — Let jour gherkins he clear and free from all spots, put them into salt and water, let them stand two or three days, then take them: out and drain them well ; put them m another pan of water, scald them, put them in a tuh, and let them stand all night, then drain the water from them ; put them in a pan of water, and to every two quarts oi water, put half a pint of syrup : put them in, and let them boil over a slow fire five minutes; put them in the tub again let them stand till next day; then them again, drain that syrup from and have a clean pan, with the syrup