121 CAP CAP butter, and some whole pepper; stew all these together till half has stewed away, add some cullis; when your capon is roasted, put the gravy winch you have saved into the sauce, bread the capon, place it on a dish, pour the sauce all over, and serve. Capon Pasty.—Roast a capon, let it he cold, take the flesh from the hones and slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions whole. Add to the flesh of the capon, four sweetbreads and half a pint of oysters, sea- son them with salt, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, sweet marjoram, pennyroyal, and thyme, minced; lay a sheet of paper or paste in your pasty-pan, and lay the thighs and pinions on the bottom, and strew them over with sliced onions, then put in the flesh of the capon, the sweetbreads, and the oysters cut in halves ; over these strew a handful of chestnuts, boiled and blanched, then put butter over them, close up your pan and bake it; when done, add gravy, good stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and j grated nutmeg; garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Turkey may be done in the same manner. Capon with Peas.—Boil a fat piece of beef with a capon, a piece of bacon, and a little salt; when the capon is almost boiled, take it out, and braise some peas and boil them in the broth ; then take up the beef, and put in the capon again ; when all is < Bufficiently done, take up the peas, strain them, and put them into a saucepan by themselves; when done, dish the capon, pour the strained peas over it, and serve. Capon in Piltaa.*—Truss a capon with the claws inside, and tie it up ; put it into n stewpan with some good consomme, and cover it with a slice of bacon ; when the capon is about three parts done, put in half n pound of rice well washed; let it stand over the fire till the rice is perfectly done, then drain the capon, and dish it. Add to the rice some saffron in powder, and a good pimento ; butter, and place it round the capon. Capon Pudding.—Roast a capon, take out the meat of the breast, mince it small, then cut some pig’s feet very thin, put these into a saucepan, with a couple of roasted onions; then pound them in a toortar with sweet herbs and shred parsley, Seasoned with spices and mixed with the whites of two or three eggs beaten. Beat up the yolks of twelve eggs in a quart of nulk, boil it to a cream ; then mix all to- gether, and just warm it over the fire ; put ese into skins the same as you do marrow puddings ; blanch them in water and milk with slices of onions ; when you use them, spread a sheet of paper over with lard, lay it on a gridiron, broil your puddings on it over a gentle fire and serve them. Capon au Riz.*—Draw and truss your capon, and cover it with slices of bacon ; then wash thoroughly a quarter of a pound of rice ; drain it and let it dry before the fire, then put it into some bouillon, and let it stew, moistening it and stirring it from time to time ; when it is done, keep it on warm ashes and soak some crust of bread in it; drain your capon which you have cooked, with it, take off the slices of bacon, and serve it on a dish with the rice round it, and pour over the whole some clear veal gravy. Capons, in general, are dressed the same as fowls. Capon soused.—Take a full-bodied ca- pon, prepare it as for the spit, then lay it in soak four hours with a knuckle of veal welljointed ; then boil them with a gallon of water, skim it well, put in five or six blades of mace, two or three races of sliced ginger, three fennel, and three parsley roots. When the capon is boiled, take it up and put to your soused broth a quart of white wine, boil it to a jelly, then put it into an earthen pan, and put your capon into it with three lemons sliced, then cover it close for use. When you serve it, gar- nish with barberries, slices of lemon, nut- meg, mace, and some of the jelly. Capon roasted with sweet Herbs.—When you have drawn the capon, put your finger between the skin and flesh to loosen it; grate some bacon (the quantity of two eggs), and add to it one truffle, one mush- room, a little parsley, and garden basil; season these with salt, pepper, and spices; mix these all well together, and put them between the skin and flesh of the capon, and sew up the end ; then lard the capon ■with slices of veal and ham, putting a little sweet herbs, salt, and pepper between ; then wrap it up in sheets of paper, and put it on the spit to roast. By the time it is roasted, have ready a ragout of veal sweet- breads, fat livers, mushrooms, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, asparagus tops in their season, which should be tossed up with a little melted lard, and strengthened with a good gravy; take off the fat, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham ; place your capon on a dish, pour your ra- gout under, and serve. Chickens, par- tridges, ducks, pheasants, &c., may be dressed in the same manner. *