APR APR 26 put the pippins in pots or glasses with the orange peel. Lemon peel may be used instead of orange, hut then it must only be boiled, and not soaked. Apples, Pippins, preserved in slices.— When the pippins are prepared, hut not cored, cut them into slices; take their equal weight of loaf sugar; put to the su- gar a sufficient quantity of water; let the sugar dissolve, skim it, and let it boil again very high ; then put the fruit into the syrup when it is. clear; lay them in shallow glasses, in which they are to he served ; then put into the syrup a candied orange-peel cut into little slices very thin, lay them about the pippins, and cover them with syrup. APRICOTS {Bottled)*— Press the quantity of ripe apricots you may require through a horsehair sieve; put the pulp into bottles, cork them very close, and tie them over; place these bottles upright in a large saucepan, with hay between to prevent their touching; put the saucepan on the fire, and fill it with water. When the water is near boiling, take it off and let it stand till the bottles are cold ; then put them in a cellar, without touching- each other, until wanted, when they will be found as good to use as fresh fruit. The apricots may also be preserved whole by the same means. Apricots in brandy .*—Choose your apri- cots when quite ripe, let them be free from spots, rub them carefully with a linen cloth, to take off the down. Weigh your fruit, and to each pound put a quarter of a pound of sugar. Clarify it, and boil it to the degree grand perle, then put in the apricots: boil them three or four times, taking care to turn them frequently, that they may take the sugar in all parts. Take them off' the fire, and put them one by one into glass bottles ; the syrup being by this time nearly cold, pour the brandy (three demisetiers to each pound) into it by de- grees, stirring constantly to mix it well with the syrup. When thoroughly incor- porated, pour it into the bottles, the fruit at first will float; but when the brandy and sugar have soaked in, they will sink to the bottom ; they are then fit to eat. Apricot Cakes.—Scald, peel, and take the stones from a pound of ripe apricots, beat them to a pulp, boil halt a pound of double-refined sugnr with a little water, and skim it well; then put in your fruit, and simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, stirring them gently all the time; put them into shallow glasses, and when cold turn them on glass plates; put them in a stove, and turn them once a day till diy. Apricots, Charlotte of*—Choose twen- ty-four fine, plump, but not too ripe, apri- cots, pare and divide them into eight parts, toss them up in a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of warm butter; in the mean time line a mould as directed (see Charlotte) ; pour in the apricots, and finish as usual. When turned on your dish, cover it lightly with apricot marmalade, and serve it immediately. Apricot Chips. — Take apricots or peaches, pare them, and cut them very thin into chips; then take three-fourths of their weight in sugar, finely sifted, and put the sugar and fruit into a dish, and place it upon a stove of moderate heat; when the sugar is dissolved, turn the chips upon the edge of the dish, out of the syrup, and so set them by. Keep turning them until they have absorbed all the syrup, but take care that they never boil. They must be warmed in the syrup once, daily, and so laid out on the edge of the dish until, by repetition, all the syrup be drank, up by them. Apricots (green) Compote of.*—Green apricots are done exactly the same as green almonds. See Almonds. Apricots, Compote of*—Peel, cnt, and take the stones from your fruit, and put them on the fire in a little water, and when they rise they are sufficiently done, and may be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then put them into a little clarified sugar and give them three or four boilings; skim them well, and put your fruit aside ; boil the sugar alone four or five times more, and pour it over the apricots. When cold, place them in the compotier. Apricots, 11 'hole*—Choose the finest yellow, but not too ripe, apricots; take off the stalks, prick them on each side with a pin, make an incision with the point of a knife, through which extinct the stone. Then put them on the fire with as much water as will coverthem, until near boiling, when, if soft, the apricots shouldbe thrown into cold water; take care they are all equally tender. Drain them on a hurdle, and in the mean time clarify and boil some sugar to the degree you require : put in a little water, and when it boils remove it from the fire, and add to it the fruit, and having given them a few boilings together