MAC MAC 339 perfectly fresh, divide the yolk and white with great care. 3. The oven must be no more than moderately heated, nothing' being more liable to bum than almonds and sugar; by the least negligence in this re- spect, the surface would be burned, whilst the inside would remain unbaked. The best method to obviate any mischief of this sort: Put two or three macaroons into the oven to try it; leave them in the usual time; and if, when you take them out, they are of a clear yellow, the oven is pro- perly heated, and the whole of the maca- roons may then be put in. Macaroons (Spiced).*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of sifted sugar-; make your paste as usual, to which add a spoonful of powdered cinnamon, six or eight cloves, also pounded, some pre- served lemon and orange peel (of each a spoonful), chopped small, and the grated rind of two lemons ; mix them all together in'the mortar, and then lay your macaroons as usual, and bake them with equal care. Macaroons (Spiced) Tart of.*—Join to- gether as many sheets of wafer paper with water as you may judge necessary, cut it to the size of a dish ; lay it on a sheet of whitepaper, cover it with the spiced maca- roon paste, about an inch thick; put it in the oven, and bake it of a clear brown. In the mean while, boil a quarter of a pound or six ounces of sugar with some oran°-e- ilower water, until, on dipping the skimmer into, and shaking it in the air, the sugar flies off in small bottle-shaped pieces;°as soon as the tart is baked, pour the sugar- over it pretty thickly; replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, which should re- semble icing; in a few minutes take it out and lay it in a large dish. MACEDOINE.*—Take as many car- rots and turnips as you think necessary, turn them neatly, blanch and boil them in a little consomme; reduce them to a jelly. Take the following vegetables : young peas' and beans, French beans, cut into lozen- ges, cauliflowers, artichoke bottoms, cu- cumbers, asparagus heads, small onions and white mushrooms; blanch all these separately, and a quarter of an hour before dinner, make them quite hot, and then dram them on a cloth ; in the mean time, reduce some allemande, add to it the jelly of roots, keep them boiling, put in the roots and vegetables, with a little sugar and fresh butter ; stir them together until the sauce adheres to the vegetables. The mactdoine Js generally used to garnish the removes of soups. Macedoine d la Bdchamelle*—Prepare carrots, turnips, small onions, peas, aspa- lagus, bread, and French beans, artichoke bottoms, cauliflowers, &c. &c.,inthe same manner as the macedoine; when they are all done in their appropriate seasoning, drain them very dry, and put them into a saucepan, and pour on them a reduced bccbamel; shake them all up together, that the sauce may be thoroughly incorporated It teiboif ‘ p il Maoedcune-0/ Fruit. The macedoine is an ornamental dish, composed of trans- parent jelly, with various fruits enclosed in it ; for this purpose it should be done as follows : Have a dome-shaped mould, six inches and a half in diameter, and four in height, the sides fluted; the smaller mould must be of a similar form, but only fourinches and a half in diameter, and two Jiave To"00! qTen Mgh ’ to this latter have four handles, bent at the end, to ban- it exactly in the centre of the larger mould" iepai-e a strawberry transparent jelly place the larger mould as straight as pos- mb em pounded ice, hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly into the former - whilst it is congealing, pick about twenty fine white strawberries, the same number of very red ones, the same of white rasp! samT nfa ^ bunches of red- and the same °f white currants; wash all these well, buttouch them as little as possible, that y may not lose their freshness : when. *’leje ly is Perfectly set, pour some hot water into the small mould which will en- able you to remove it with ease; raise it great care, so that the space may be found without the slightest flaw {hen place on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two bunches of white currants sura round these with a rino- 0f white fi. berries and the latter with a crown orriiw of white raspberries ; pour over very care’ fully two or three spoonsful of the7 jelly and when that is congealed, proceed in berries'a7 Wlth the red currants, straw- ESS b' i„ land of frmt you think pronor Tt , ^ also be filled with two jellies as follows^ “i- s-t z 2