326 LEM LEM clarified sugar on the fire, and dilute it with a little water; when it boils, and has been well skimmed, put in two ounces of clarified isinglass, with a little lemon peel cut very thin; let these boil till you have squeezed through a sieve, into a basin, the juice of six lemons; then pass your sugar and isinglass to it, and set it in a mould, as any other jelly; when turned out, gar- nish it with dried jellies. Lemon Jelly.*—Take five large lemons, Squeeze out the juice from them, and add to it the whites of six eggs, well beaten, ten ounces of double-refined sugar, beaten very fine, twenty spoonsful of spring wa- ter ; mix all well together, strain it through a jelly-hag; set it over a gentle fire, skim it well, and when it is hot (it must not boil) take it off-, and pour it into glasses, with shreds of lemon peel. Lemon Juice (Conserve of')*—Squeeze the juice of three lemons into a silver dish, set it on a moderate fire, and let it stand till reduced to half; then add a pound of sugar boiled to casse, and finish the con- serve in the usual way. Lemon Juice (to keep).—Keep the le- mons for two or three days in a cool place; if too unripe to squeeze readily, cut the peel off some, and roll them under your Land, they will then part with their juice more readily; others you may leave un- pared for grating, when the pulp has been taken out, and they have been dried. Squeeze the juice into a china basin; then strain it through some muslin, taking care that none of the pulp passes through. Have some half and quarter of ounce phials, he careful that they are perfectly dry, and fill them with the lemon juice ; fill them so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each; cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. If you make use of larger hials, you must put in rather more than alf a tea-spoonful of sweet oil. When you want lemon juice, open such a sized bottle as you will use in two or three days; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted; and when all is removed, the juice will he as good as when first bottled. Hang the peels up to diy, and keep them in a place free from dust. Lemons (to keep) for Puddings.—When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, without the pulp; let them re- main in the same a fortnight, adding no more; boil them in tho same till tender; strain it from them, and when they are nearly dry, throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup, of common loaf- sugar and water, and pour it over them; in a week or ten days, boil them gently in it till they look clear: and that they may be covered with it in the jar, you may cut I j each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy a smaller space. Lemon Loaves.—Cut the fruit in halves, . i squeeze them, and preserve the liquor, I take out the pulp, boil the peels till the .; bitter is extracted; then lay them in syrup >1 for two days; then boil the syrup they have laid in till it is of a good consistency, add 1 the peels, and put them into glasses for : use; when they are wanted, take what: quantity is sufficient for a dish, and fill 1 them with some pudding mixture, either * marrow, bread, plum, &c„ or with a cus- • tard, and bake them with the greatest care. . Lemon Marmalade.—Take half a dozen i lemons, grate off two of the rinds; then cut t them all, and pick out the inside from the skin and seeds ; put to it the grated lemon, and about half a pint of pippin jelly; bake ■ the same weight of sugar to a very strong souffle; then put it to the inside, and boil all very quick, till it becomes a jelly, which may be ascertained by dipping in the skim- • mer, and holding it up to drain; if it is sufficiently jellied, it will break from the • skimmer in flakes, and if not, it will run i off in little streams; when done, put it into glasses or pots. Lemon Mince Pies.—Squeeze out the juice from a large lemon; boil the outside till sufficiently tender to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of cur- rants, four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the lemon, and add candied fruit, the same as for other pies. Make a short crust, nnd fill the patty-pans in the usual manner. Lemon Paste.—Cut off the ends of the lemons, and run them through and through with a long pin; put them on the fire in water, and boil them till tender; then take them out, lay them in cold water a mi- nute, put them into a cloth, and press out tho water ; pound and rub them through a sieve, mix them with double the quantity of sugar boiled to la grande plume. pe the whole on tho fire to simmer, stirring constantly, and finish the paste as usual. Lemon Pastille.—Grate the nnd ot a lemon without any of the white, infuse i