BILL OF FARE FOR TWENTY PERSONS. (See Plate). FIRST COURSE. JUNE. r Though the Soups, Fish, and Entries appear here to be on table at the same time, it is preferred to send the Soups and Fish first, shortly after them the Entries, and then the Removes for the Soups and Fish. The last course being served, the four Removes will take the places of the Roasts as seen above. When Turtle is served, it is well to have a plain Soup on the side table. The Plateau remains down the middle of the table throughout the dinner. There must be plenty of plain boiled vegetables on the side table. Deux Terrines de Potage a la Tortue Two Tureens Turtle Soup Un Dore, sauce aux homards Dorey boiled, lobster sauce Filets de Soles avec du Chambord, &c. Fillets of Soles, Chambord sauce Merlans frits, sauce de cbevrettes Whitings fried, shrimp sauce Tranches de Saumon it la Genevoise Slices of Salmon, Genevoise sauce RELEVES Une Hanche de Venaison Une Longe de Veau farcie it la creme Poitrine de Bceuf it la Macedoine Trois Petites Poulettes aux clioux-fleurs, &c Croustarde de Mouton aux pommes de terre, &c. Quenelles eu Casserole gamies de filets de Lapereaux, &c. ENTREES REMOVES Haunch of Venison, sauce of port wine and currant jelly Loin of Veal stuffed, sauce a la creme Stewed Beef, Macedoine sauce Three Chickens, cauliflowers, sauce veloute Raised Pie, saute Mutton, potatoes, sauce Italienne Quenelles of Rabbit in Casserole of Rice, with fillets larded ENTREES Cailles aux truffes Quails with truffles Trois Ris de Veau piques auxpois franqais Sweetbreads larded, stewed peas Cotelettes d’agneau, glacees aux epinards Lamb Cutlets saute, with spinach stewed Filets de Cannetons au jus de Bigarade Fillets Ducklings, with Seville orange Petites Timbales de Laitances de Maquereau Timbales, or Patties, of soft roes of mackarel Escallopes de Poularde aux filets de con- Escallops of Fowl, with Fillets ofCucumbers combres Soupe Julienne Turtle Soup SIDE TABLE.'. Saddle Mutton Shrimp Patties Cold Raised Pie of Pheasant Ham braised SECOND COURSE. Levraut roti au cresson Dindonneaux, &c. Deux Canards, £tc. Des Cailles rflties Gel6e de vin avec des fraises Creme de Cederatte Gelee de Mosaic T’ourte de Cerises Artichauts it la barigoule Haricots verts it la pouletto Une Salade Italienne Petits Pois it la franqaise RELEVES Fondue au Parmesan Gftteax de Creme Punier de Chantilly Leveret roast, with cresses Turkey Poults, ditto Ducklings, ditto Quails, ditto Jelly garnished with strawberries Cederrtte Cream Mosaic Jelly Cherry Tart Artichokes it la barigoule French Beans, sauce poulette Italian Salad Stewed Peas REMOVES Fondues of Parmesan Cream Cakes Chantilly Basket