PIG •125 PIG a scollop-shell to take the form, and bake them; in the mean time braise four pi- geons till about half done, then take them r out, dip each in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour ; and the paste being baked, remove them from the shells, place the pigeons into these paste-shells, and cover every bird with another. Pigeons (Fricassee of)*—Cut some young : pigeons into quarters, which blanch for a quarter of an hour in warm water, then ! dry them well, and give them a few turns i: in some melted butter. Add half a pint : of good stock, a little pepper and salt, and when nearly done, half a glass of cham- pagne, a few morels dressed in veal gravy; serve your fricassee very hot. Pigeons (Fricassee of) with Blood*— Take the blood of as many pigeons as you may wish to use, squeeze into it a little lemon juice, and set it aside. Prepare your birds as above; when nearly done, add some veal gravy, and having mixed two or three yolks of eggs with the blood, stir it into the fricassee a little at a time. Serve very hot. Pigeons (Fricassee of white.—Take as many pigeons as your dish will require (and cut them or not according to their size), put them into a stewpan with a good piece of butter, a slice of ham, chopped mushrooms, a bundle of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and thyme : when they have soaked about twenty r minutes, add a small quantity of stock, a little salt and whole pepper ; set them on a slow fire to simmer, reduce the broth, take out the ham and herbs, make a liaison, I with the yolks of two eggs and some cream, make it quite hot without boiling i add a little lemon juice, and serve. The 1 pigeons may be garnished with sweet- ( breads, artichoke bottoms, &c. These, : however, must be scalded before they are put to the fricassee. Pigeons au Cratin.—Prepare and scald three or four pigeons, a sweetbread and two fat livers (also scalded), two or three artichoke bottoms parboiled, a few mush- rooms, a slice of ham, parsley, scallions, thyme, half a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, two cloves ; fry these lightly in a proper quantity of butter, then add gravy, a glass of white wine, a little stock, whole pepper and salt; let the whole simmer slowly, and when done, skim it well; pour half the sauce into a dish that will bear the heat, and set in on a brisk fire to form the gratin, then put the pigeons, &c„ and let it stand; squeeze a little lemon juice into the remainder of the sauce, and pour it over the whole, and serve. Pigeons (Hotchpotch of.—Take two or three good sized pigeons, truss and boil them over a slow fire in some stock with carrots, parsnips, celery, small onions (all previously scalded), parsley, shalots, thyme a bay-leaf, pepper and salt. When done, place the pigeons in a deep dish, with the roots, &c. arranged around, and serve with a Spanish sauce. Pigeons in Jelly.—Pick two very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible, by singeing, washing, and clean- ing the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown, and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, and with it half fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. W hen the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done at least four-and-twenty hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appear- ance in the middle range of a second course; or, when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs must be bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. Pigeons en Macedoine.*—Having tho- roughly cleaned four young tame pigeons, put them to soak for a whole day, then beat up a pound of butter with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, with which stuff the pigeons; truss, and rub them over with butter and lemon, place them in a stewpan between two slices of bacon, add some consomme. When done, drain and serve them on a macedoine of vegetables. Pigeons (Masqueraded).—Cut two or three large pigeons in quarters, which braise with a few slices of bacon, and peeled lemon, a little consomme, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a couple of cloves ; tako a large eel, and cut it into as many pieces as you have quarters; split these open, take out the bone, lard the outside with bacon, and boil them in a little veal cullis ; as soon as the fish is done, reduce the cullis, and with it glaze each piece of eel, and having laid the quarters of pigeon on