ALM 11 ANC drain andputtho fruit in a compotier. If the sugar should not be sufficiently done, boil it as much more as you may think necessary ; squeeze in the juice of an orange, boil it once again, and when nearly cold strain it through a cloth into the compotier over the almonds. Almond (green) Marmalade.*—Take the down from green almonds as below; boil them till tender, throw them into cokl water, and then set them to drain; break and pass them through a sieve; put the marmalade on the fire to dry it, and for each pound put a pound of sugar, and half a pint of water; boil and skim it, until, on dipping your finger first in cold water, then in the sugar, itcomes off clean ; when you put it in the water again, add the mar- malade; heat, but not boil, both together, and then put it into pots. Almond (green) Nonpareils. — Drain some green almonds that have been pre- served in brandy ; dip them one by one in sugar prepared au casse, and roll them in white, or any other coloured nonpa- reils, and dry them in a stove, or gentle oven. Almond (green) Pickle.*—Boil vinegar according to the quantity of pickle you wish to make; skim it well, and add to it mace, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper; cut your almonds, (which should be quite young and soft,) in halves ; put them into jars, and pour the vinegar over them. Take care to have in each jar sufficient liquor to cover the almonds. Almond (green) Preserved.*—Put some water into a saucepan, with two handsful of bran, and when it has boiled up twice, throw in some green almonds; let them boil up once, then take them out with a skimmer, and rub them well in your hands to take off the down; as you do this, throw them into cold water; then boil them in water till, on pricking them, a pin easily enters and they shrink : then clarify some sugar, a pound to a pound of fruit; boil up the syrup four or five successive days inorung !md evening, without the fruit! which you leave to drain upon a sieve • lastly, put the fruit into a pan, and when rather more than lukewarm, pour the syrup r.;L”XS.loot >o'”re“ Almond (green) Tarts.—Pull almonds from the tree before they shell; scrape off the down with a knife, and put them into a pan with cold water as fast as they are done; then put them into a skillet with more spring water, over a very slow fire, till they simmer. Change the water twice, and let them lie in the lust till tender; put them between two dry cloths and press them dry. Make a syrup with double-re- fined sugar, and put them to simmer a little ; repeat this the next day; put them in a stone jar and cover them close, as they turn black if exposed to the air. The yellower they are when in the water, the greener they wil 1 be afterwards. Put them into a sugar crust, lay the lid close, and cover them with syrup, and bake in a mo- derate oven. Almond (green) Tarts may also be made like any other fruit tart, but the almonds must be very young and cut in half. AMBER Pudding.—Put a pound of butter into a saucepan, witli three quar- ters of a pound of powder sugar; when melted and well mixed together, add the yolks of fifteen eggs beaten, and as much candied orange beaten to a paste as will give colour and flavour to it. Line the dish with paste for turning out, and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It may be eaten hot or cold. AMIENS Pie.—Make a paste with about half a pound of flour, a pound of butter, salt, and warm water, and let it stand two hours before you use it. Truss a couple of ducks as for boiling; singe them well on a charcoal fire, and lard them with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, laurel powder, thyme, basil, nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon, and coriander; make a pretty thick raised pie, and cover the ducks in it with slices of bacon and plenty of good butter; finish the pie, and bake it about three hours in a middling oven, then let it cool some time : mix three or four spoons- lul of rich jelly broth, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and one spoonful of good brandy ; boil these up together, and when the pie is about halt cold, pour in the sauce, shake it well to disperse the gravy properly. The ducks should be stewed “ la braise before thev are put into the pie ANCHOVIES.*—Wash half a dozen anchovies, and take the meat from the bones; cut them into four fillets, place them on a dish with some sweet herbs, chopped fine ; and the yolks and whites of hard eggs, also cut small. Anchovy Butter.*'—Wash your ancho- vies carefully, take out the bones, and dry them ; then pound them in a mortar until they are reduced to a paste ; and mix this paste with double the quantity of fresh butter.