APR APR 27 let them cool, then drain and place them in jour compotiers. Apricots (Conserve of) .*—Take half-ripe apricots, peel and cut them into thin slices, drjthem over a gentle fire; to four ounces of fruit put one pound of sugar, boiled to the degree la plume forte; when the sugar is nearly cold put in the fruit, taking care to stir it well with a spoon, that they may be well incorporated. Apricot Cream, a laFran^aise.*—Cut into pieces fifteen ripe apricots, choose them of a nice red colour. Boil them in four ounces of clarified sugar. When reduced to a thin marmalade, beat them through a sieve; then boil four glasses of milk with six ounces of sugar and one grain of salt, and mix it by degrees with the yolks of eight eggs, constantly stirring it with a wooden 6poon, then cream it over a moderate fire ■ after which it must be strained through a sieve. Add six drachms of isinglass; as soon as it is cool, pour it gently on the apricot marmalade, stirring it gradually, until the whole is well mixed together, then pour it in a mould (which should be previously rubbed with oil of sweet al- monds) , then surround the mould with ice ; cover your cream with a piece of paper or the lid of a saucepan. After your cream has been in the mould for two hours, gently turn it out upon a dish, and serve. The advantage arising from rubbino- the moulds with oil of sweet almonds is, preventing the necessity of dipping the moulds into warm water to get the cream out easily, which is rather a long operation. Cieam with Plum de reine-chaude is made in the same manner as the above; the proper quantity of plums to make use of are four-and-twenty, and they should be very ripe. Plums de mirabelle are done m the same way, and the same number (twenty-four) made use of. Apricot Custard, glazed.*—Cut twenty hne apneots in half, take out the stones • toss up twelve apricots in four ounces of powder sugar, and place them in a cream according to the directions for apple cus- arcl; bake and glaze as therein directed, •rut a glass of water and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar with tho rest of the fruit into a preserving-pan ; when the eyrup is properly reduced, take the skin trom the apricots and arrange them in the custard ; garnish each half apricot with a kernel, and when roady to serve, pour the By Hip on it. Serve hot or cold. Apricots, Fanchonetles of.*—Make your Unchonettes (see that articlo) as usual and garnish them lightly with apricot mar- malade ; and when baked and cold fill them with this marmalade, and finish as there directed. , Apricots, Flan Parisien*—Take five dozen very fine apricots, cut them in half, and put them, a few at a time, over the fire, with hall a pound of sugar and four glasses of water ; as soon as you find the peel will come off easily, take them out and drain them, and put fresh apricots into the syrup, and proceed the same until all are peeled, then reduce the syrup to the usual consistence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound of butter, the same of su<mr* on which grate the zests of four lemons’ a little salt, eight or nine glasses of milk, and three quarters of a pound of raisins,- into a saucepan, and when it boils take it from the fire and put it on hot cinders, stirring- it occasionally for an hour, when, if the rice be quite soft, mix the yolks of ten eggs with it. 1 hen make a croustade or raised crust, of nine inches diameter, and about five or six high, into this pour about a quarter of your preparation of rice, on which put a layer of apricots with two or three spoonsful of the syrup, then pour a second portion of rice, then the apricots and sy- rup, and so on twice more; tie a paper round the flan and put it in a brisk oven ; when it has been in an hour, cover it, that the yellow tinge which it has acquired, by this time, may be preserved. This dish will take two hours and a half to bake pro- perly. When ready to send to table, it may be covered with a large meringue, if you think proper. Observe that the rice and apricots should be cold when put into the croustade. Apricot Fritters d la Dauphine.*—Take twelve small apricots, cut them into halves, and boil them in syrup. Let them drain, and take off their peel. When they are cold, make a very thin crust with brioche paste, and make a fritter for each of the halves of your apricots. Then fry them, and finish the same as fritters a la Dauphine. 1 each fritters are made in tho same man* ner as the above. Apricots (Fromage of).—Peel and stone eight or twelve ripe apricots, and pound them m a mortar with a little sugar, then rub them through a tammy with a new wooden spoon ; mix in with this a little dissolved isinglass, and a pint of thick cream well beaten. Continue to whip it over ice till the isinglass is melted and