CHE CHE 142 Cheese Curd Florentine.—Brenk to pieces two pounds of cheese curd, take a pound of blanched almonds finely pounded, ■with a little rose water, half a pound of currants, clean washed and picked, some stewed spinach, cut small; sweeten it with some sugar; mix it all well together; lay a puff paste in the dish, put in the in- gredients, cover it with a thin crust rolled and laid across; bake it in a moderate oven; it takes half an hour: the top crust may be cut any shape. Cheese Curd Pudding.—Take the curd from a gallon of milk, turned with rennet; drain off the milk completely, and beat it in a mortar, with half a pound of fresh butter; strain to this the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten, add two Naples biscuits, or half a small roll grated, and sweeten the whole; putitinto buttered tins, and bake in a moderate oven ; when done, turn them into a dish, and gar- nish with citron, candied orange peel, and blanched almonds, cut in slips; sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve them with melted butter and a little sack. Cheese Entrees.— Parmesan cheese should be made use of for entrees, and it should be grated, and the meat or fish with which it is served should be dressed d la braise, or en ragout; very little salt must be used in the sauce or meat, as Parmesan is in itself very salt. Put into the bottom of the dish in which you are going to serve your meat, some of the sauce you intend to use with your meat, then strew with grated cheese ; place your meat upon this, pour over the remainder of your sauce, and cover the whole with Parmesan. Then put it in an oven, or under a baking-pan to brown, and serve it with thick sauce. Cauliflowers and Spanish cardoons may be served in the same manner for entremets. Cheese (Fondu of).—Make a sort of pap with half a pint of cream, or good milk and potatoe flour; add a little salt. When the pap is boiled enough, put to it four yolks of eggs, half a pound of grated Gruycre or Parmesan cheese; and lastly, four whites of eggs, whipped till en neige. Stir the whole well together. Next pour the pap into a mould, place it over a stove covered with a lid, and fire on the top. It will be done enough in ten minutes, when it should be quickly served and eaten ; or make a paper case, put in your mixture, and bake it. Cheese (Fresh).—Take two quarts of raw cream, sweeten it with sugar; boil it, then put in some damask rose water, keep it stirring, that it may not burn ; when it I' is thickened and turned, take it off the 1 fire : wash the strainer and cheese-vat ■' with rose water; then roll your curd backwards and forwards in the strainer to I drain the whey from it, then put the curd, with a spoon, into the vat; as soon as it is cold, slip it into the cheese-dish with; some of the whey, and serve it up. Cheese Fritters .*—Put some milk, but- ter, mild Brie or Gruycre cheese into a saucepan ; add to these ingredients flour, and afterwards eggs and sugar; make it into a paste, of which form your fritters; fry them of a nice colour, and serve them sprinkled with sugar. A small quantity of orange flowers may be added. Cheese (Parmesan) Fundus.*—Put a pound of butter, and half a pound of pota- toe flour; stir them together well; add to them five or six glasses of good milk nearly boiling, a pound of Parmesan cheese grat- ed, half a pound of Gruyere cheese grat- ed, a small spoonful of mixed mustard, and a spoonful of powder sugar. Set it over a moderate fire, stirring it constantly; add the fifteen yolks, and a large plateful of whipped cream, well drained, then the whites whipped firm; pour this prepara- tion into small paper cases, as quickly as possible, and bake them for fifteen or twenty minutes. • Cheese as Iced Butter.—Boil for a few minutes a pint of cream, with some rasped lemon peel, and a good spoonful of orange- flower water; when taken off the fire, add a dozen yolks of eggs well beat up, and mix together without boiling; sift through a sieve, and put into an icing-pot to freeze, working it the same as ices ; it must be iced in such a manner that you may take it with a spoon to serve, like pats of but- ter stamped, and bits of clear ice between to appear like crystals. Cheese iced a la Chantilly.—It is pre- pared die same as cream cheese iced, and put to ice in moulds ; beat up a pint of cream to a froth, and rasped lemon peel, a pound of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; serve the froth upon the cheese, raised as high as possible ; you may, if you choose, ice the froth a little. Cheese (Parmesan) Ice Cream.— lake six eggs, half a pint of syrup, and a pint of cream, put diem into a stewpan, and boil them until they begin to thicken; then rasp three ounces of Parmesan cheese, mix the whole well together, and pass it through a sieve; then freeze it according to custom.