may again lie barrelled, and placed in some moderately cool situation for the winter. In racking, it is advisable that the stream from the racking' cock be small, and that the receiving tub be but a small depth below the cock ; lest, by exciting a violent motion of the parts of the liquor, another fermentation be brought up. The casks into which the liquor is put, when- ever racked off, should always be previ- ously thoroughly scalded and dried again; and each should want several gal- lons of being full, to expose a larger surface to the air. Having attended to these rules so far, the cyder will require very little further attention, beyond filling- up the vessels every two or three weeks to supply the waste by the insensible fer- mentation, until the beginning of the suc- ceeding March ; at which time, it may be reasonably expected, the cyder will be bright, pure, and in a fit state for its final racking. This should be done in fair weather ; but should the cyder not prove as bright and as good a colour as desired, this is the time for applying some inno- cent remedy; the best method is by putting two pounds of lump sugar into a hogshead of cyder. If you wish the cyder to be of a higher colour than what the fruit gives it, melt a pound of lump sugar in a stew-pan, over a clear fire, stirring it frequently, until it comes to a very dark brown colour; then take it off the fire, and, as it cools, add some cyder thereto, by little and little, continuing to stir it till it becomes a thin uniform fluid. About a pint of this colouring to a hogshead of cyder, is sufficient. Soon after the spring racking, the casks may be gradually stopped, by first laying the cork on the bunghole, mid in the course of a few days forcing it very tightly into it, covering it over with melted rosin, or any other similar sub- stance. Bottling the Cyder.—This should be done in a month after the spring racking, when the liquor has acquired in the cask its highest degree of perfection; then, when the weather is fair, the barometer high, and the wind in a northerly point, let the bottles be filled, setting them by uncorked until the morning; then let the corks be driven very tightly into tho necks of the bottles, tied down with small strong twine or wire, and well secured with melted rosin, or other mate- rial of the same nature. Cvdeh Brandy.—Take very hard or sour cyder (as that yields the most spirit), twelve gallons; distil it the same as other spirits are distilled. Then, witli a gentle fire, draw off two gallons of cyder . brandy or spirits, to make royal cyder. You may distil on as long as any spirits will run, for other uses. Cyder Sweets.—Beat up the whites of forty eggs, and mix them with eight gal- lons of water ; put to these half a hundred weight of sugar, put half the sugar into half the egg water, set it over a gentle fire, and stir it about till it is dissolved; then put in more egg water to keep it from boiling too high : putting in a quart at a time, till all the egg water is used ; skim it as it rises, and when it has done rising, and the sweets are clear, add the rest of the water, and boil it to the consis- tency of a syrup. Cyder Vinegar*—Take about six pounds of sour leaven, made with yeast and rye flower; dilute it with warm water, and pour it through the bunghole into a large cask of cyder; put a large stick into the bunghole, and stir it about well to mix the leaven with the cyder; then let it stand to ferment for a week; at the end of that time you will have a strong cyder vinegar, which must be drawn off immediately. CYPRUS WINE (to imitate).—To nine gallons of water, put nine quarts of the juice of white elder berries, which has been pressed gently from the berries, and passed through a sieve without bruising the kernels of the berries ; add to every gallon of the liquor three pounds of Lisbon sugar ; to the whole quantity put an ounce and a half of ginger sliced, and three quarters of an ounce of cloves ; then boil this near an hour, taking off the scum as it rises, and pour the whole to cool in an open tub, and work it with ale yeast, spread upon a toast of white bread for three days, and then tun it into a vessel that will just hold it, adding about a pound and a half of raisins of the sun split, to lie in liquor till you draw it off, which should not be till the wine is fine, which you will find in January. D. DABS (Fried).—Put oil, rendered lard or dripping, into a frying-pan, sufficient to cover the fish; let the fat be quite hot before the fish is put in ; dry the fish well with a cloth, and flour it; when fried, lay it on a cloth to drain.