ITA JAC 305 mace. Put them into a stewpan, add a large onion sliced, some parsley and thyme tied in a bunch, and a pint of veal broth. Simmer the chops till three parts done, then add some onions and whole po- I tatoes peeled, and let them stew till done. • Serve it up in a deep dish. The parsley and thyme must he taken out, when the stew is to be served up. Isinglass (to clarify').*—Take about two ounces of the best and clearest sort of isinglass for a quart mould of jelly ; put it into a stewpan, with just sufficient quantity of cold water to completely cover it; set it by the stove, with a spoon in it to stir it at times, and skim it when any scum rises ; let it boil very gently, and well reduce, only be careful not to reduce it too much, as it will burn, and, of course, : get a bad taste, and spoil your jelly; when you think it is sufficiently reduced, and looks clear, pass it through a sieve into a basin, ready for use. Isinglass (to clarify').*—Take an ounce and quarter of the best isinglass, cut it into small pieces, and wash them several times in warm water. Put the isinglass into a preserving-pan, with five glasses of filtered water ; set it on the fire, and as soon as it boils, place it at the side of the stove, so as to keep up the boiling; take off the scum directly it rises; and when the whole is reduced to three quarters, strain it through a cloth into a basin for use. Some add, in clarifying isinglass, lemon peel, to remove its disagreeable taste; but as good isinglass ought to have no flavour, and as the lemon peel is certain to give a yellow tinge to that, it is much better left out. _ Isinglass Flummery.—Put six ounces of | isinglass into a quart of new milk, sweeten it, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring i one way all the time, till it is jellied ; pour it into basins, and when cold turn it out; f you may put in orange-flower water if you : like. Isinglass Jelly.—Take an ounce of isin- | l,lass, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a quart of water; boil it till reduced to a pint, then strain it over some su°*ar. Italienne.*—Put into a saucepan a spoonful of shred parsley, half a spoonful of shalots, the same of mushrooms (both 1 minced small), half a bottle of white wine, and an ounce of butter; boil these till no moisture remains, then put in two ladles- ful of veloute, and one of consomme, set it to boil, taking care to skim off all the fat; when you find it about the consistence of clear broth, take it from the fire, put it into another vessel, and keep it hot in he bain- marie, and season it. Italienne with Truffles.—Chop some nice black truffles, sweat them in a little consomme, and mix them with the brown Italian sauce. If you happen to hare no Italienne ready, stew them for half an hour in an espagnole only. Keep this sauce thin and highly seasoned. J. JACK or Pike (to choose).—If the fish is fresh, the gills will be red, the fish stiff, and the eyes bright: the best sort are caught in rivers, the worst are caught in ponds ; it is an extremely dry fish, and very much improved by stuffing and sauce. They are not thought much of in England, but are much esteemed in inland countries. Jack or Pike.*—If you wish to serve it as a principal dish, do not scale it, but take off the gills, draw it, and boil in court- bouillon. If as a side-dish, it is dressed many ways; as for instance, cut it in pieces, leaving the scales on, and cook it in court-bouillon ; when done, and you are ready to serve, take off the scales, and dish it for table, pouring over it any white sauce you think proper, to which it is usual to add capers. It may also be fricas- seed like chickens ; in this case, cut it into pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with a slice of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some mushrooms ; turn it a few times over the fire, and then shake in a little flour; moisten with good stock and white wine, and stew it over a brisk fire ; when done, and agreeably seasoned, put in the yolks of three eggs, beat up in cream. It may also be dressed ere matelote ; or it may be fried, being first steeped in a marinade. Jack or Pike (Small) a VAllemande.— Draw them, and cut them into pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with some slices of onion, whole parsley, two bay leaves, some leeks whole, two cloves, salt, coarse pepper, and a bottle of white wine. Having simmered half an hour, take them off the fire, scale them, cut oil'the fins, and put the slices into a saucepan. Then strain some court-bouillon through a silken sieve, pour it over the fish, and keep them hot. When you wish to serve, drain the slices of fish, and arrange them on the dish. Put a good piece of butter into a saucepan, with a spoonful of flour, some grated nutmeg, coarse pepper, and half a glass of court-bouillon; turn this sauce over th® x