TEN 490 TEN TENCH.—They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish ; when good, the eyes are bright, the body stiff', and the outside free from, slime ; tench should be dressed as soon as caught. Tench broiled with Herbs *—Take three or four tench as fresh as possible, plunge them into boiling water, scrape off the scales carefully, beginning with the head ; cleanse them thoroughly, and put them into a marinade of oil, with shred parsley, scal- lions, and shalots, thyme, bay leaf, salt, and pepper. Wrap them in a double paper, enclosing the marinade, and broil them. Take off the paper before sending to table. Serve them on a piquante, anchovy, or caper sauce. Tench (Fricassee of').*—Cleanse the tench, scald, and take off the head, tail, and fins; cut the fish into three or four pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with some white wine, bay leaf, pepper, and salt. Dissolve some butter with a clove of garlic in it; toss up a few morels in it, then add a glass of white wine, and the same of fish gravy, small onions, and carp roes; pour this over the fish, let the whole simmer a short time, and then serve. Tench (Fried).*—Take a couple of large tench, scale and cleanse them as for broil- ing. Cut off the fins, split them down the back, take out the bones; sprinkle them with flour and salt; squeeze a little lemon juice over, and fry them in butter, and serve them dry. Tench (Matelote of).*—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; add to it a dozen small onions, a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two or three cloves, thyme, bay leaves, a little flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of white wine; when these have simmered a quar- ter of an hour, put in the tench cut in pieces ; as soon as the fish is done, add capers and a chopped anchovy; make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, and serve with fried bread. Tench an Monarque.—Open the fish down the back, take out the hone, and some of the meat; mince the latter with some shalots, mushrooms, and parsley; mix these with a little panada, an ounce of butter, the yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper; stuff the tench with this, try them lightly, and serve with a ragaut made as follows: Cut two or three arti- choke bottoms into quarters, and put them into a little melted butter, with mushrooms, shalots, sweet herbs, and a couple ot cloves; when these have stewed a short time, add a glass of wine, the same of stock, tench or carp roes, crayfish tails, pepper, and salt; make the ragout thick, and squeeze in a little lemon juice. Tench Pie..—Put a layer of butter at the bottom of a dish, and grate in some nutmeg, add pepper, salt, and mace; then lay in the tench, cover them with butter, and pour in some red wine and a little water; put on the lid; when baked, pour in melted butter, mixed with good rich gravy. Tench au Pontife.—Take a couple of fine tench, scald, and split them down the back; take out the hones and meat care- fully, so that the skin he not broken ; mince the latter, and mix it with grated bread soaked in wine, scraped bacon, calf’s udder, parsley, shalots, and mush- rooms (all shred), pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs ; fill the skins with this farce, and fasten them up to look like the original form. Dip them in oil or melted butter; cover them with bread crumbs ; lay them on thin slices of bacon in a dish, and bake them. When done, and of a nice colour, drain off the fat, and serve with a rich sauce. Tench au Restaurant.*—Prepare your tench as directed (Tench Stuffed)-, and then soak them in melted butter, with parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper ; when thoroughly saturated, cover them with grated bread, place them between thin slices of bread and butter, on a well but- tered dish. Pour over them some carp or other fish gravy, and bake them in a slow oven. Tench (Rousted).*—'lake off scales, heads, and fins, of the tench, cleanse and dry them well, then put into each a little butter, mixed with sweet herbs; lay them for about five minutes in melted butter, with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs ; wrap each fish in paper, fasten them to a spit, and roast them. Tench in a Salmis or Hash.— thoroughly cleanse and wash the tench, then cut off the head, and split it down the back, and cut both the sides into three or four pieces; have ready on the fire some good consomme in a large stewpan, with a carrot, onion, some parsley, peppercorns, salt, a clove of garlic, abay leaf, a bit of lean ham, and hal a bottle of port. Let the tench stew in this till well done, and then put it into another stewpan. The liquor in which the fish was done, must be stewed down with our large spoonsful of sauce tournee till i( ° a moderate thickness, then squeeze in h