BRI 86 BRti cial care that it is not peat or straw dried : and procure it of a pale colour, for they are the best of all malts, and more balsamic, also soft and smooth, and highly agreeable to the palate. Every gentleman who studies his own interest, would do wisely to purchase the malt unground: for iu grinding your own malt, you have not only the satis- faction of knowing that it is not adul- terated, but there is another advantage, for of ten bushels of malt in the grain, there will be a saving of nearly two bushels. JVIalts should not he ground too fine, but on the contrary, broke or made into a kind of coarse meal. Good malt is known by a simple test, namely, by chewing it; for if well made, it will he nearly as sweet as sugar, delight- ful to the smell, of a mellow flavour, round body, and thin skin. Hops.—When hops are purchased, let them not be loose in the bags, but very tight packed, for that preserves them. Be careful that no soap or grease gets about the tubs or pails, for either will pre- vent the beer from working, and waste the whole. Never suffer the brewliouse to be used but for the operations belonging to the brewery, nor any of the tubs and pails for other purposes, nor suffer them to be taken from the brewbouse. Take care that the liquor-stands he quite steady, for if they rock they injure the beer. They should be made sufficiently stout, and of oak, when they will last for many years. Fine strong beer for bottling, should be six months old. Observe—never bottle in the cellar, either wine, beer, cider, &c., but on a fine clear day. Let the bottles be well inspected, and use none hut the best velvet corks; for to purchase inferior, low- priced corks, is mistaken economy, as, besides other bad effects, they will cause all liquors to taste of them. Beer, cider, and perry, for home con- sumption, should stand in the bottles six or eight hours before they are corked. Cider and perry should have the corks ■wired, and be packed in a bin with sand ; the beer should be well corked, and packed in a bin with dry deal sawdust. Some beers require to be wired. Bottled beer for sending a voyage, should be drawn in the bottles, and left, to stand forty-eight hours to flatten, before it is corked, and then wired with brass wire, cut for the purpose into proper lengths. As cool, fine, bottled, transparent table beer is esteemed in the heat of summer, always during that season have some bot- tled off', and packed in dry deal sawdust; the old corks will serve, "it is best to use two-quart bottles (Scotch pints), and when used at table, pour it gently down the side of the glass, or decant it off in a japan jug, to prevent much froth. It is the custom with the butler or cel- larman at great houses, where the family pride themselves on the superior quality of their malt liquors, a fortnight before ale, or strong or table beer is used at the master’s dinner-table, to peg a cask, or two, of each, in order to select those of the best quality and flavour (for every cask is apt to differ, from some hidden cause, though brewed alike), and two or three days before it is wanted, let it be tapped, and draw off a quart or two of each, which will greatly help to fine it; make use of strainer-cocks, and keep the vent-pegs tight in. In tho summer months, however, they may be eased, particularly it the hear frets ; and never neglect to have a tap-tub under each cock. By attention to these rules, the butler may secure to his master the proud satisfaction, which has long been the boast of one of our oldest peers, in the elegant hospitalities of his castle, ot giving to his guests, a sparkling glass of “ British Cham- pagne.” BRILL—Is dressed in the same manner as turbots. BRIOCHE.*—Divide half a quartern of flour into three parts, and knead into one of them half an ounce of yeast and a little warm water, wrap it in a cloth and set it hv, in summer time for a quarter of an. hour, and iu winter for a whole hour. When it has risen, put it to the remainder of the flour, with a pound and a halt of butter, ten eggs, half a glass of water, and nearly an ounce of salt; knead them toge- ther with your hand thoroughly, and then wrap it in a clean cloth, and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut this paste into the size you wish to have your cakes, moisten, and . roll them in your hand, flatteu the top, and gild them with the yolk ot an egg. ■ Half an hour will be sufficient to bake the small ones; large cakes will require an hour and a half. Brioche Fritters.*—Cut some small brioche cakes in halves, take out the middle, and put in some kind of sweetmeat, or made cream ; put the two halves of each 1