LAM LAM 320 Lamb Throats (Coquilles of).* — Soak some lamb’s throat sweetbreads, the same as those of a calf; put them into a stew- pan, with a little butter and lemon juice ; blanch and let them stand; when cold, cut them in thin slices as for blanquettes, add some mushrooms and truffles, also sliced. Boil a piece of glaze, about the size of a walnut with a little aUemande and a spoonful of consomme ; mix the whole together, add a small quantity of butter, and some lemon juice ; put this preparation into scollop shells, strew bread crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese; put a small piece of butter on each, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve them hot. Lamb’s Tongues*—Are dressed in the same manner as sheep’s tongues; they are considered as a greater delicacy. Lamb o lo Villeroy.*—"lake two breasts of lamb, braise them, and when done lay them between two dishes to keep them fiat whilst cooling. As soon as they are quite ^old, cut each breast into five pieces ; take oif all the skin and trim them, soak them in some allemande; let them get quite cold again, and then bread them ; dip them in an omelet; bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. Place them on your dish, en couronne, with a clear aspic. LAMPREYS. — Lampreys resemble eels; there are river and sea lampreys; they must be scaled in the same manner as tench, and cut into pieces; then floured and fried. They may also be broiled and served with capers ; or if you serve them as a side dish, mix some oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and mustard, together over the fire ; and serve it as a sauce for the lampreys. Lampreys may also be stewed like carp, and served, en matelotte, as a side dish. Lamprey*—The lamprey is a species of eel, but thicker, shorter, and less brown than that fish ; they are seldom to be had in London, and are not very plentiful in any part of England. They should be chosen fat and are generally cooked in the same manner as eels. Lampreys (Broiled).—Wash them very clean in warm water ; cut them into pieces, melt some butter, and roll them in it; make a seasoning with bread crumbs grated, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and sweet herbs chopped very fine ; alter the fish lias been well rubbed in the butter, dip it into the seasoning, and broil it over a clear, gentle fire. Sauce :—take an onion cut small, parsley, mushrooms, capers, an an- chovy minced fine, some pepper and salt; add a little fish broth, and thicken it with some fish cullis; boil it, and strain it over the fish. Lamprey (Broiled).—Cut a lamprey into three pieces, and put it into a pan with white or red wine, a little butter, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, carrots, par- snips, thyme, bay leaf, and cloves. Before the fish is quite done, drain and dip it in butter; cover it with bread crumbs, and broil it slowly, baste it with oil or butter. Serve it dry. Lampreys (to stew).—Cut off the heads, and save the blood, that runs from them; then wash them well in warm water, dry them in a cloth, fry them in a little fresh butter till half done ; pour off the fat, and put in a little white wine ; shake the pan round, put in a little whole pepper, nutmeg, salt, sweet herbs, and a bay leaf, a few capers, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood ; shake the pan round frequently, and cover them close. When they are done, take them out; strain off the sauce; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish. Lamprey d Vltalienne.—Put two onions, chopped very small, into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter, a spoonful or two of oil, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of spice, two of garlic, the fish cut in pieces, the blood, and a pint of red wine ; set these on a brisk fire, and boil till the liquor is re- duced ; take out the herbs, and then keep it on till done. Squeeze orange or lemon juice over, and serve. Lamprey (Mateloteof).*—Take the lam- preys, put them into boiling water; take out the entrails, and cut the fish into pieces. Take some sauce tournee, into which put the lampreys, and add white vine, small onions (previously tossed up in a little butter), some mushrooms, and a bunch of sweet herbs seasoned, salt and pepper; stew these, skimming frequently. M hen ready for table, put die blood of the lam- preys to the matelote, and serve it; garnish with fried bread and erny-fish. Lampreys (to pot).—Scald and scrape them, take out the insides, especially the black string ; season with pepper, salt, and mace : put them into a pan, and bake them in a slow oven ; when they are done, take them out of the gravy, put them in a clean pan, and cover them with clarified butter. Lamprey an Restaurant.* — Cut your fish in pieces, put it into a stewpnn with some melted butter, truffles and morels, cut iu thin slices ; when they are nearly done.