VEA 512 VEA roast it; have a ragout the same as for loin of veal with ragout; cut the arti- chokes into any form you may think pro- per; place the veal in the centre of the dish, the artichokes round ; serve the ra- gout round, but not over the veal. Veal (Fillet of) roasted.—Stuff it with the same ingredients as directed for the shoulder, and roast it according to the same directions (see Shoulder of Veal roasted). The fat should he papered. Veal (Fillet of) steued.—Stuff it; half hake it, with a little stock in the disli ; then stew it with the stock it was baked in, with some good gravy, and a little Madeira; when done enough, thicken the sauce with flour; add ketchup, Cayenne, a little salt, and lemon juice ; give it a boil and serve it over the meat. Veai. Gristles or Tendrons an Blanch- Cut the gristles of any form you choose; scald, and then throw them into cold water : when quite cold, trim, and put them into a steivpan, with a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; add in a minute or two a table-spoonful of flour, shake the pan about, that the latter may mix with the butter ; in a little while add stock, champignons, a bouquet garni, and some pepper; let these stew for four hours, then put in some small onions ; when the latter, are done, make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, and serve the gristles, covered with the onions and champignons. Veal Gristles or Tendrons en Chartreuse.* —Cut and dress the gristles as directed. (See Poeles.) Take thirty carrots, and thirty turnips, cut them into round pieces, all of the same length and size (that of a farthing), and boil them separately in a little consomme; also boil forty small onions (as near of a size as possible), and twenty lettuces; scald some French beans, and young peas, taking care they do not lose their green colour; slice half the number of pieces of the roots after they are boiled. Having thus prepared all the ingredients, take a plain round mould, butter it well, and cover the bottom as fol- lows : First, a circle of the sliced carrots, then one of sliced turnips, within that, one of the onions, the French beans, and the young peas; place them as close to- gether as possible. On these arrange the other pieces of carrots and turnips, put, them regularly that they may look hand- some ; cut the lettuces into halves, and lay them over the roots; these, if laid close, will form a solid foundation for the rest;'place the gristles over them, also closely, and fill up all spaces with the remaining vegetables. Cover the mould tight, and put it into the bain-marie for an hour. In the mean while, take the liquor in which each article was dressed, clarify, strain, and reduce it; then add a spoonful of reduced espagnole, and a bit of glaze; stir these well in, and when the chartreuse is ready, turn it out, and pour this sauce over it. Veal Gristles or Tendrons en Marinade.* —Cut the gristles into square pieces, and put them into a stewpan on slices of ba- con ; cover them also with bacon, and pour in a marinade; stew them for two hours and a half; then drain, dip them in batter, and fry them, but not in a hot pan. Serve with parsley fried crisp. Veal Gristles or Tendrons Poeles.* — Take the gristles from two breasts of veal, cut them very close to the rib-bones; they majr either be cut in small square pieces, or left whole at pleasure, only taking care that they are all the same size ; soak and blanch them well, then put them into a stewpan between slices of bacon ; pour a poele over, and stew them for four hours, when, if they are tender enough for a larding-pin to penetrate them, arrange them in a circle on a dish, putting into the centre whatever you may think pro- per : glaze them. Veal Gristles au Soleil.*—Prepare and dress the gristles as au blanc, and when thickened, place them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. When quite cold, cover them with bread crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them, but not in a very hot pan. Serve them on fried parsley. Veal Gristles (Tureen of).*—Prepare and stew the gristles au blanc, except that they must be moistened with consomme instead of stock, they will require three hours’ stewing. Take some small veal kernels, sweetbreads, cocks’ combs, and kidneys, and twelve fowl quenelles, all dressed separately ; drain, and put them into the tureen, lay in the gristles, and champignons; thicken the sauce (which ought to be rather thin than otherwise) with the yolks of five eggs, and strain it into the tureen. Veal Gristles (Tureen of).—Wash in two or three waters a good quantify of veal gristles, taken from the breast or any other part; then lay them on a sieve to drain ; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, and set it over a slow fire, and as soon as it boils, add more butter; when that ias