258 FOW FOW spices, moistening with two eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream. When the force- meat is finished, cover the bottom of a pie- dish with paste, and put the forcemeat over it about the thickness of an inch, completing the pie the same as all others. Let it bake for two hours, but if made of beef or mutton still longer. When it is done, open the pie, cut the forcemeat into squares, skim off the fat, and put in a good cullis. Forcemeat (Paw) Pie.—Take fillet of Teal chopped, with calf's udder scalded, raw breasts of poultry, beef suet, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two or three raw eggs ; when well pounded and seasoned, make it into balls, or into the shape of sausages ; put them into the pie, and if you choose you may add artichoke bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, sweetbreads, &c., with some butter; finish the same as all other pies. Forcemeat for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod.—Take equal quantities of fat bacon, beef suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savory, a small quantity of onion, and a few leaves of scented marjo- ram, shred fine, and one or two anchovies, a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be a great improvement, either with or without anchovies; add bread crumbs, and an egg to bind. Forcemeat (Portuguese) for baked Soles. —Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlic or shalot, some par- sley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; pound the whole fine with a few bread crumbs added to it, and bind with the yolks of two or three eggs. FOWLS (Directions for choosing and dressing.)—When a cock is young his spurs are short; take care that you are not deceived by their having been cut or pared, a trick that is often practised. If fresh their vent will be close and dark. Hens are best just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of egg; if they are old their combs and legs are rough. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with paper. The cook should be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall- bag, for no washing will take oft the bitter where it has touched. If for roasting, black-legged fowls are the most moist. A good-sized fowl will tuke from three quarters of an hour to an hour in roasting; a middling-sized one about half an hour; and a very small one, or chicken, twenty minutes. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted, that they may be served with a froth, and ! appear of a fine colour. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. Serve with egg sauce, bread 1 sauce, or garnished with sausages or scalded i parsley. A large barn-door fowl, well hung, , should be stuffed in the crop with sausage » meat, and served with gravy in the dish, . and with bread sauce. The head should be turned under the - wing like a turkey'. For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged; pick them carefully, singe, . wash, and truss them. Flour them, and put them in boiling water ; a good-sized i one will be done in half an hour. Serve with parsley and butter ; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery sauce. It for1 dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is com- ■ monly served with them. Fowls are trussed in the same manner as chickens (see Chickens). Fowls (Bechamelle of) au Gratia.*— Put half a dozen spoonsful of beohamelle and some stock into a saucepan ; let it boil, and stir it constantly with a wooden spoon ; take the remains of some roasted fowls, and having minced it very small, put it into the bcchamelle ; stir it lightly, and then pour it into a silver dish : beat up the white of an egg, spread it over the mince, strew on it grated bread crumbs, and Parmesan cheese ; pour a little melted butter over the whole, and colour it with a salamander. Towns boiled with Pice.—Stew a fowl in some well-skimmed clear mutton or veal broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, pep- per, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve, covered, before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice rouud it without the broth. The less liquor the fowl is done with, the better. Serrts with gravy or parsley and butter for sauce. Fowl. (Boudins of)-*—-Sprinkle some flour on a table, and lay on it so me. farce a Quenelles, make into whatever fonns vou may think proper, and poach them ; tflen