i95 CRA CRE champignons, truffles, and crusts ofbread ; simmer it, take out the veal, put to it the pounded crayfish, and then strain it. To make this cullis maigre, substitute butter for the bacon, and moisten it with fish broth. Crayfish (Cullis of) an gras*—Take about thirty crayfish of a moderate size, and after several times washing them, boil them in water; then pick them and put the shells aside, pound them and twelve sweet almonds and the crayfish well in a mortar; then take a fillet of veal and a piece of ham, cut them into slices with an onion, and add some slices of carrots and parsnips ; when the whole has taken colour, add some melted bacon and a little flour; let it sim- mer, stirring it well; then moisten the whole udth some good stock or broth. Add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, young onions, mushrooms, truffles, crusts of bread, i and let it simmer; then take out the veal, i dilute the contents of the mortar with the juice, and strain the whole through a i sieve. Crayfish (Cullis of) ait maigre.—In- stead of melted bacon, substitute butter; j let whatever you make it of be only half I brawned, and moisten it with good fish | liquor; but, of course, a cullis au maigre can never equal the excellence of a cullis i an gras. Crayfish (Patted).—Having boiled the fish in salt and water, and picked out all the meat, sprinkle them with spice, pepper, and salt, and then pound it to a fine paste, adding a little butter; put it into pots, and cover them with clarified butter. Crab is potted in the same way. Crayfish a la Provenfale.*—Boil your fish in equal quantities of wine and water, with salt, lemon, sweet herbs ; shell them, remove the small claws, and simmer them for half an hour in whatever sauce you please. Serve them with the sauce poured over, and around them. Crayfish au Restaurant Glace.*—Boil 1 your fish in good broth, with two slices of 1 veal, cut in dice; anil when done, put I them in your dish; add to the liquor some i veal or fowl gravy, and reduce it to a jelly, which pour over the crayfish ; put them in a cool place, that the jelly may set. Serve cold. Crayfish (Roasted).*—Put the fish to soak in hot wine, but do not boil them; when well drained, stuff them with sweet herbs, butter, salt, pepper, and basil; fasten them with skewers on a spit, and foast them before gentle fire; baste them with their own dripping or boiling wine. Crayfish (Salad of).*—Boil crayfish as usual, take them from the shells, put them into a salad-bowl with anchovies, arti- choke bottoms, and seasoned like other salads. Crayfish Soup.—Put some eels, flound- ers, &c. into cold water, set them on the fire, and when near boiling, skim, and add to it onions, carrots, parsley, and whole pepper. Take about fifty crayfish, and having taken them from their shells, put them into the fish broth, also the small claws and tails, finely pounded ; let them boil for an hour, then strain it off; add some crusts of bread, and the spawn of a lobster pounded. Crayfish Soup.—Boil six whitings, and a large eel, with as much water as will just cover them; skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves; boil them to a mash. Pick fifty crayfish, pound the shells, and a small roll, but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs; put this liquor over the shells, on a sieve; then pour the other soup clear from the sediment; chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef gTavy; and also the tails of the crayfish, and some flour and butter, and season ac- cording to your taste. CREAM d I’Anglaise.*■—Take two yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, two ounces of candied orange and lemon peel, five ounces of blanched pistachio nuts, beat these all up in a mortar; add to them a pint of good milk, and boil them over a gentle fire, stir- ring it frequently to prevent its burning. When done, add five or six drops of orange-flower water, pour the whole on a dish, and set it over the fire till the edges are brown ; sprinkle sugar over, and sala- mander it. Cream au Bain-marie*—Mix up what- ever ingredient of which the cream is to be made, with eggs and sugar; for the pro- portions, see the respective articles; strain them through a fine sieve, and pour the preparation into a mould lightly buttered within side. Put this mould in a large saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boiling water to reach within an inch of the mould; placo the saucepan on hot ashes, cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; renew the fire underneath occasion- ally, so as to keep the water at the same temperature, that is, nearly, but never o 2