BIS 70 BIS of potatoo flour sifted; and make your biscuit as follows : Grate the zests of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and as soon as it becomes coloured, scrape it off, and grate again until all the zest is done; then dry the sugar perfectly, crush and. sift it. Break your eggs one by one (taking care that all are perfectly fresh) ; put the yolks and whites into separate vessels; mix half your sugar with the former, stirring it in with a spatula until perfectly smooth, then add the remainder, and work it well for twenty minutes. Whip the whites till quite firm, putting in a small quantity of pounded alum ; when suffi- ciently whipped, which may be known by little points rising when the whisk is taken out, mix a little with the yolks; still, however, keeping the whites stirring; then pour the yolks on them very gentty, mixing them together as you pour, with the whisk: sift over the whole a pound of potatoe flour, stirring the mixture all the time; when ready to put into the mould, your paste should be very smooth, and somewhat of the consistence of treacle. Butter the mould, and put in a few spoonsful of your paste at first, to prevent any globules of air appearing on the top when baked; pour in the remainder care- fully. Cover a baking-plate with hot ashes, lay the mould in the midst of them, and place it in a moderate oven; keep it open for an hour, that the biscuit may be watched, and if it takes colour too quickly cover it with paper. In three hours’ time take it from the oven, and if it be of a good colour, and firm, turn it on a baking-tin, tie round it a band of double paper, and replace it in the oven for a quarter of an hour to dry. Biscuits (Savoy), large, with Almonds.* —The ingredients for this biscuit are the same as above, with the addition of four eggs, and half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the almonds, then wash, drain, and dry them in a napkin; pound them with whites of eggs in the usual way, to a fine paste, pass it through a sieve, and then mix it with the additional eggs; add this to the sugar and yolks, and proceed as above. Biscuit (Sea)* a la Fran^aise.—Mix halt a pound of flour with the grated rind of a lemon, four eggs, and a little salt ; stir them with a wooden spoon ; lay this pre- paration in two large cases, dorez and bake themin a tolerable hot oven. When done, take them out of tho cases whilst hot, and cut them in pieces the sizeof a little finger; put them again into the oveu to dry, and colour them. Biscuits (Small).—Make a paste with a quarter of a pound of flour, three spoonsful of fine powder sugar, and the same of mar- malade ; add whites of eggs to work it pretty soft. Make this paste to what shape and size you please. Biscuits (Spice).—Take three pounds of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut in half, three ounces of cinnamon and mace pound- ed, and one pound of powder sugar; mix them altogether on your slab : boil three pounds of Lisbon sugar with some water; make the above ingredients into a paste with this, and roll it to the size of a large rollingpin ; lay it on a sheet of paper, flat it down a little with your hand, keeping it higher in the middle than at the ends ; put it into a very hot oven ; when done, take it out, and while hot, cut it across, in slices an eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. Biscuits (Fine Sponge).—Break twelve eggs, separate the yolks and whites ; to the former put three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, stir them well with a wooden spoon, till it rises in large blad- ders ; whisk the whites to a very firm froth, and then mix them very lightly with the yolks and sugar, and when incorpora- ted, add ten ounces of line dried and sifted flour. Stir them all together well, and pour the mixture into well-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Take them from the tins whilst hot. Biscuits (Spoon).*—Break four eggs, put the yolks and whites into separate ba- sins ; add to the former a quarter of a pound of powder sugar ; having grated on it the zest of a lemon, mix these together well with a spatula for ten minutes ; then whip the whites to a froth, and put about half of them to the yolks, and when that is well mixed in, add the rest; stir it very lightly, and lay them with a spoon on paper; make them about three inches long, and the breadth of a finger. Glaze them with powder sugar, and place them on baking-tins, and, as the sugar dissolves, and they shine, put the biscuits into a mo- derate oven, which must be kept open for seven or eight minutes, then close it until your biscuits are of a proper colour. M hen cold, detach them from the paper with a thin knife-blade, and lay them by in couples, the glazed sides outwards, till wanted.