300 HER IIER the lettuces, &c., in a tureen, and pour the soup over. HERON Pie.—Break the breast hone, and lay the bird in soak for an hour iu warm water and salt. Shred some onions and sweet herbs very fine ; make them into balls, with a little butter; add pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace in powder ; put some of these into the heron, lard the breast, and lay bacon on the wings. Make a raised crust, in which place the bird, with the remainder of the balls round it; squeeze in some lemon juice, cover the pie, and bake it; when done, raise the top, pour in a little gravy, and let it stand till cold. Heron (To Roast).—When the heron is picked, parboil it, lard the breast and back ; roast it, basting with white wine and butter, beaten together : strew over it bread cnimbs, mixed with sweet herbs, shred small. Beat up the yolks of eggs with a little claret and vinegar, and some chopped anchovies : when roasted, serve it garnished with rosemary leaves, orange and lemon sliced. HERRINGS.—There are three sorts of herrings, fresh, salted, and dried or red her- rings. They are emptied and cleaned like any other fish; when fresh, they are broiled, and served with melted butter, white sauce, &c. The salted herring should be soaked in cold water before it is cooked ; this is also broiled ; sometimes, however, it is cut in pieces, and eaten raw. The red herring is split down the back, the head and tail are cut off, and the fish broiled like the others. They may also be dressed as follows : when they have lain in cold water a suffi- cient time, soak them for two hours in milk, then split them down the back; then have ready some melted hulter, in which has been mixed basil and bay leaf, minced small, the yolks of two eggs, pep- per, and nutmeg; rub the herrings well with this, bread them; broil them over a gentle fire, and serve with lemon juice. ■ The best red herrings are full of roe, are firm and large, and have a yellow cast. Of the fresh herring the scales are bright if good, the eyes are full, and the gills red, the fish also should bo stiff. Herrings (Boiled).—Scale, and other- wise prepare the herrings in the usual way ; dry them well, and rub them over with a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails in their mouths, lay them on a fish plate, and put them into boiling water; in ten or twelve minutes take them out, drain them, lay them on the dish, the heads towards the middle ; serve them with melted butter and parsley, and garnish with horseradish. Herrings (To Pickle).*—Let the fish be well cleaned and gutted, but not opened; take salt, pepper, mace, and nutmeg; pound and mix these spices well; then i j rub a pan with an onion, strew some of :; the spice over the bottom, and put in as many fish as will lay flat on the bottom; , i then put a layer of sliced onion, then fish, , and so on alternately, till the pan be filled; strew the pounded spice between each i layer; pour the best vinegar over, so as • to cover the whole ; tie a brown paper • i over the pan, and bake till the bones are • soft. Sprats and mackarel are, likewise, i pickled in this way. N. B. The heads and tails must be cut off. Herrings (Pickled).*—These fish are usually broiled, and served with a puree ■ of vegetables, or butter sauce. They are sometimes, however, used as a hort i d'oeuvre, when they are cooked as follows: Take six pickled herrings, cut off the heads, ends of the tails, and fins ; skin and soak them in equal quantities of milk and i water; then drain and dish them with slices of onions, and apples. They are eaten with oil. Herring Pie.—Scale and clean the her- rings, cut off’ the heads, fins, and tails. | Lay a crust at the bottom of a dish ; strew over it mace, pepper, and salt (all pound- ed) ; put in a little butter, lay in some of the herrings, season them, then put a layer of apples and onions, sliced thin ; then herrings again ; add some water, and a little more butter ; cover the pie, and hake it well. Herrings (Potted).—Cutoff the heads, and lay the herrings close in an earthen- pan ; strew a little salt between each layer ; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, and a nutmeg, cut in pieces; fill up the pan with vinegar, water, and a little white wine ; cover the pan close, and bake the fish : when cold, pound it, and put it bv in pots in the usual way.—(See Potted ■ Beef.) ' . Herring-roes (fresh), en Caisscs. Scald, and drain the roes of twenty or thirty' fresh herrings; give them a few turns over the fire, with little butter, sweet herbs, mushrooms, salt, and pepper, ,