CHE 153 CHE Chestnuts (Ragout of).—When the chestnuts are properly prepared, put them into a saucepan with half a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of cullis, a little stock, and salt; boil it until reduced to a thick sauce. Be careful not to break the chest- nuts, but they must be thoroughly done. Chestnut Rolls.*—Roast and peel about jhree dozen chestnuts, and carefully re- moving- those parts which have been co- loured by the fire, weigh six ounces of them and pound them with two ounces of butter ; when reduced to a very fine paste, pass it through a sieve and make it into rolls, as directed (see Almond Rolls). Chestnuts (Souffle of ) .*—Peel your chestnuts, and then boil them in water with any aromatic ingredient you think proper ; lay them in a cloth to drain ; dry them thoroughly, pound and rub them through a quenelles sieve ; put them into Jhe mortar again with half their quantity of butter and a little powder sugar, and when they are well beaten together, add the yolks of six eggs, and beat them up likewise. If the paste is too liquid put it into a saucepan over the fire to dry a little. About half an hour before it should be sent to table, whip the six whites of eggs to a froth, as for biscuits, and mix them lightly with your souffle, which put into a silver stewpan, and place it in a cool oven. Chestnut Soup.*■—Half roast about se- venty or eighty chestnuts in hot ashes, and then take off the outer and second skins. Boil them in some good beef or rich fowl stock; when well done, pound those which have broken in the boiling, £uid press them through a sieve, moisten- ing them with stock as a puree. Keep the unbroken chestnuts to place round the soup-dish as a garnish. . Another way.*—Put into a stewpan a piece of butter, three onions sliced, two carrots, a parsnip, a head of celery, three leeks (all cut small), half a clove of garlic, and two cloves; when they have taken colour, put in a little water, and let it boil for an hour, then strain and season it with Balt, fake the outer and second skin from a hundred or more of chestnuts, and stew ■them in a part of the above liquor ; when sufficiently done, rub the broken ones through a sieve as above, and keep the whole ones to garnish ; moisten the former •with the liquor they were stewed in; then boil up the whole together, and serve. To •flake this soup cu gras, meat must be added to the roots in the first instance. . Chestnut Soup, a I’Anglaise.—Lay some slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of :r stewpan, and place on them a pound of veal, a pigeon cut in pieces, an onion, sweet herbs, pepper, mace, and a carrot ; let these stand over the fire until it begins to stick to the bottom, then add a crust of bread and two quarts of beef broth ; boil it gently, and when reduced to nearly half, strain it, and having roasted half a hundred chestnuts, stew them in beef stock (just sufficient to cover them ) until quite tender; add them to the soup made above ; season with salt, and serve with fried bread. Chestnuts (Stewed).—Cutanotchin the skins of about fifty chestnuts, mid put them in a stewpan with a little butter; shake them over the fire, and when the skin is quite come off, let them simmer in some consoinmd; turn them about occasion- ally, until nearly dry ; then add a little espngnole; simmer them gently in that for a short time. If it should be too thick/ you may add more consomme. Salt it to your taste, and put in a few mushrooms stewed : great care should he taken not to break the chestnuts. Serve with roasted turkey, stewed beef, &c. CHICKENS.—Havingpicked the chick- ens, singe ; them well to remove all the hairs, &c., which may remain on the skin; then bruise the bone close to the foot, and draw the strings from the thigh. Take out the crop by a slit cut in the back of the neck; then cut off the neck, leaving skin enough to turn over the hack. Cut off the vent, and take out the inside, being careful not to break the gall; break the back-bone and the two bones leading to the pinions ; wipe the chicken with a cloth, and put in a little pepper and salt. If the chicken is to be trussed for roasting, pro- ceed as follows : Turn the legs close down to the apron and run a skewer through ; run another skewer in the joint of one wing through the body to the other wing; and having washed the liver and gizzard, place them in the pinions. For boiling, the under part of the thigh must be cut, and the legs placed under the apron, only let- ting the ends be seen. Be sure to preserve the breast very full. To truss them, en poule, for the French dishes, make a hole above the joint of the leg, and put the claws into the body. A string fastened across the back, from the head to the point of the skewers, will effectually preserve the chicken in its pro- per form. i Chickens, a I’Anglaise*—Truss and roast them till three parts done, and before