CIIE 143 CIIE -take out the bread, sift over them pounded cinnamon and tine sugar, glaze with a sala- mander, and then fill them with the cherries in syrup. . Cherries (to candy).—The fruit must he gathered before it is ripe ; prick and stone them ; boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. Cherries cn Chemises.*—Choose some large ripe cherries, cut the stalks halt oft, beat up the white of an egg to a snow, and dip each cherry in it, and then roll it in fine sifted sugar ; then lay them, without touching each other, on a sheet of paper, and place them in a stove on a sieve till wanted. . . Currants in bunches, strawberries, and crapes may be done in the same manner. Cherries (Coated).—Take half a dozen cherries that have been preserved in liquid, one of them must have the stalk on ; dram them, cut them in half, and when the stone is taken out, place them round the one with the tail (which must not be cut) so as to form one large cherry; cover it with fine powder sugar, and dry it in a stove or o ven. Cherries (Compote of).*—Cut off the Stalks of cherries about halfway, and throw them into cold water, and when the water is well drained from them, put them into clarified sugar boiled to grand perlt, let them boil up over a quick fire five or six times ; then take the preserving-pan from the fire, shake the pan, and skim. \\ hen cool, put them into compotiers. Another wayCut off the ends of the stalks, and put cherries into a saucepan, with half a glass of water, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; set them upon the fire, and let them boil up two or three times ; place them on a dessert-plate with the stalks upward ; pour the syrup over, and serve them cold, \ ou may add rasp- berries or lemon peel, it agreeable. Cherries (Conserve of). Stone a pound of cherries, take the seeds from two ounces of red currants, and place them in a silver vessel over a moderate fire until the fruit is reduced to a quarter. Boil a pound and a half of sugar to the degree called grandcaissd, throw the fruit into it, and stir them well together till it begins to puff up; you may then put the conserve in&TXdi«L-Place layers of black cherries and powder sugar alternately m a stone jar that is broader at bottom than at top, until quite full, then pour on them spirits of wine, in the proportion of halt aPp7nttotwo gallons; stop it as close as possible, and bury it for six months, when 11 it may be strained and bottled. Keep it t tightly corked. CiiEnnv Custard.*—Stone and tail two > pounds of ripe cherries, and put them into i a preserving-pan with half a pound of: powder sugar, and when nearly done,, drain the cherries well, strain the syrup,. and boil it until it begins to stick to the ■ fingers ; then pour to it a fourth part of the cherries with the juice which drained from them, and put them on the fire till the r' nappe forms. The custard being prepared as usual (see Apple Custard), pour in the drained cherries; put it in a brisk oven for three quarters of an hour; then dorez and glaze it, and when ready for table, mask it with the remaining cherries, and pour the syrup over the whole. Cherries (Dried). — Arrange some sound ripe cherries, with their stalks on, upon little hurdles, made for the purpose. Take care not to place one upon another, and put them in a cool oven, where they must remain till the oven is cold; turn the cherries, and put them again into a cool oven (just after the bread is drawn), and leave them to dry. When cold, tie them i up in little bunches, and keep them in a i dry place. _ Second way.—Put a pound of powdered , sugar, a very little water, and five pounos ■ of morella cherries (with the stones taken out) into a saucepan, and make them scald- ing hot, when the cherries must be taken, out and dried in a cloth ; then return them to the pan, and heat them as before; dry again, and repeat the process twice more ;. take them out for the last time, and dry them in a cool oven, laid singly. When dry dip them into cold water, and dry them in a cloth. They must he kept free from .to damp. CiiEnniEs, the French TEau.—Hang mo- rella cherries by the stalks, singly, in the sun to dry, in a place free from dust; when quite dry, cut them from the stalks, and: M I place them, one by one, in glasses, cover - n them with powder sugar, and fill them up with white wine. Set them in a stove to swell, and then they are fit for use. Cherry Fritters.*—Cut some large | sheets of wafers into pieces large enough \ to hold a preserved cherry (liquid), drain iB the latter on a sieve, and then wrap them, one bv one, in the wafer, one piece at the top and the other at the bottom ; having. 1 slightly wetted the wafers, press the edges -jj together, lay them on a sieve, without touching each other, and leave them to