LEA LAR 322 six dozen of larks, pick and singe them; split open the backs, take out the intes- tines and mince them ; take a pound and a half of good farce, and having po unded the mince with it, season, and stull the larks with it. Make a raised crust, at the bot- tom of which put a layer of the farce ; wrap each lark in a thin slice of ham, and place them on it, with a bit of butter; cover the whole with slices oi bacon, and bay-leaves ; put on the top erupt, and bake the pie for two or three hours, then take it out, and let it stand till cold. Larks aux Poires— Pick the larks, and truss them as closely as possible ; cut oil one leg; season them with pepper and salt; make a forcemeat as follows : 1 ake a veal sweatbread, as much suet, some mushrooms, and some morels, a little lemon peel, and some sweet herbs; chop them very fine; mix them with the yolk of an e°-g; wi'ap every lark in some of this forcemeat, and shape it like a peai,leaving the leg for the stalk; wash them over with the yolk of an egg, and strew them over with bread crumbs ; bake them in a moderate oven of a fine brown, and serve them with- out sauce. Lauks a la Proven^ ale*— Pick, singe, and empty the larks; mince a few truffles and morels, put them into a stewpau w ith a glass of consomme, half a glass of white wine, salt, and pepper; boil these for about a quarter of an hour, then put in your larks, and simmer them slowly for five- and-forty minutes ; put in a little butter worked with flour, and stir it frequently to thicken it. Larks (RagoxU of) .—Fry your larks with an onion stuck with cloves, and a few truffles and mushrooms ; pour off the fat, and shake over them a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, and stew them till they are sufficiently done. It there is any fat skim it off; put to it some lemon juice, and pepper and salt to your taste. Larks (Ragout of).-Pick, singe, and bone the larks; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and scallions, a slice of ham, and a scalded sweetbread cut m pieces ; simmer them a minute or two, and then add a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, and salt; when the larks are nearly done, and the liquor reduced, take out the bam, parsley, and scallions. Serve them with any stewed greens or a culliB. Larks raised Pie, hot— Make a raised crust in the usual way, lay some farce at the bottom of it, place some larks (boned) on it, fill up the pie with the same, cover and bake it. When done, take off the top | crust, draw away what fat there may lie, pour a rich ragout into it, season it very highly, and serve it open. Larks rousted a la Franfoite*—Pick and singe the larks, but do not empty i them ; wrap them in slices of bacon ; fas- ten them on a spit, and roast them; lay a toast in the dripping-pan under them; ; serve the larks on this toast when done. Larks (Salmi of).*—Having properly,- prepared your larks, cut them into quar- • ters ; take the livers and gizzards, bruise : them, and then boil them in a little stock, , red wine, with shalots minced, salt, and i pepper ; in about a quarter of an hour put t j your birds into this, and simmer them an 1 j hour; serve the salmi with fried bread l round. LAVENDER VinegarTake half a i pound of lavender flowers, dry them i quickly, put them into a jug with a gallon i of the best white wine vinegar; set it in i the sun for a week, covered close ; then i draw it off, press the dregs, filter it : through blotting paper and bottle it; keep > them closely corked. LAVER.—This plant grows on the • rocks near the sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Rub some of it in a dish, and put it over a lamp, with a bit of butter and the squeeze of a Seville orange; stir it till hot; it is eaten with roast meat. LAZAGNES* — The only difference between these and nouilles is, that the la- sagnes are cut rather larger. Great care must be taken not to dress them too much. Lazagne Soup, with Cheese. Ibe la- zttgne is a paste, resembling macaroni; the only difference consists in its being flat, somewhat like a bean, instead of be- ing in pipes. Wash and boil it in stock, like rice, with a little salt; drain it in a cullender; lay some of the lazagne at the bottom of the soup-dish with some pieces of butter on it; strew grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese over them ; then put a layer of lazagnes, and so on, alternately, till the dish be full, taking care, however, that the last laver is cheese; colour it with a sala- mander, pour some good stock over, an serve it. LEAVES (to green) for ornamenting Fruit.—Take small leaves of a pear tree, keep them close stopped in a pan ot ' er juice and water; give them a boil m some syrup of apricots; put them between two