GAT 274 GAT tlia same as the conglauffle. To this mixture put half the remaining flour; and when that is amalgamated, the cream (a little at a time) ; then by degrees the rest of the flour, the salt, the leaven, the cur- rants, and rum, stirring well the whole time, that all the ingredients may he thoroughly incorporated ; finish the same as gateau de Compiigne. Gateau of MilLe Feuilles *—lake some puff paste, and divide it into eight pieces, one of which must he double the size of the rest; roll the seven pieces to about the thickness of a half crown; cut them all of an equal size; dorez, and place them on tins. Then take the eighth piece, roll it to double the thickness, and cut it to the size of the others; ornament one side of this layer, as it forms the top, and o-laze it. Bake them, and, when cold, take°the first layer, and spread currant ■jelly all over it; cover it with a second layer, on which spread apricot marma- lade; and proceed thus using a different preserve between each layer of puff paste, until you have employed the whole. Garnish the upper piece, with some of «ach preserve contained in the gateau: trim the edges, taking care to keep it quite round ; fix some small meringues to it, by means of sugar boiled to casse; place it on a napkin, and serve it. Chan- tilly cream of different colours may be substituted for the preserves. Gateau a la Parisienne.*—Take three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of yeast, an ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, ten whole eggs, as many yolks, two pounds of butter, four glasses of cream, a pound of filberts, three quarters of a pound of pistachio nuts, and a quarter of a pound of preserved orange peel. Blanch the filberts, and roast them over a moderate fire, stirring them constantly till lightly coloured; when done, take them off, and let them cool: as soon as they are cold, pound them, moistening them occasionally with cream ; when re- duced to a smooth paste, put them into a pan, stir the cream (a little at a time), into them; then strain them twice through a napkin, squeezing hard to extract all the milk, which put into a basin, and set aside. Then blanch half the pistachios; wash them in cold water; split each m half, and cut the orange-peel into pieces of the same length as the pistachio nuts, and about the eighth of an lnchsquare. Divide the flour and make the leaven in the same manner as directed for Ga- teau de Compitgne, except that milk is substituted for w'ater. Having done it, and set it aside to rise, take a pound and a half of the butter; work it up, put it into a pan, and add to it the remaining half pound, just dissolved; stir them together well, and put in the eggs and yolks, one by one, working them up con- stantly ; then mix in successively half the flour, a glass of the filbert milk, and two handsful of flour; make a hollow in the paste, into which put the salt, sugar, and another glass of the milk of filberts; mix these together, and then add the re- mainder of the flour and milk of filberts, and the leaven; these being thoroughly incorporated, mix the orange peel and pistachios, and then pour the preparation into a mould of the same kind, and but- • tered like that for Gateau de Compiegne.. Whilst it is baking, blanch the remainder • of the pistachios; divide each nut in half; dry them thoroughly in a napkin; and when the gi lean is taken from the mould, stick them on the top and round the sides. Gateau de Pithivlers.*—Pound to a veiy smooth paste half a pound of filberts; add to them six ounces of fine sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, two Gunces of bitter almonds, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt; these ingredients being well beaten together, put in four spoonsful of whipped cream. Then take some puff paste, knead and roll it out, (perfectly, and divide it into two parts, one of which must be two thirds larger than the other, which roll out of a sufficient size, to cut a round piece nine inches in diameter; add the cuttings of this to the remaining paste ; roll it outs and cut a circular piece of seven inches diameter. Moisten the edges of the smallest piece lightly, and pour on it the above preparation; spread it over the whole equally to within an inch of the edge ; then cover it lightly with the other circular piece: press the paste together, that the preparation may not escape in baking, flute the edge; dorez the top, and trace on it any desip you may think proper, 'with the point of a knife. 'Place it in a brisk oven, and, when coloured, remove it nearer the opening, that the paste may not be too highlv co- loured. When it has boon baking three quarters of an hour, take it out and glaze it. These gateaux may be varied accord- ing to taste, by introducing diflerpit articles, such as butter, almonds, T currants, muscadel raisins, crisped orange