MAG 342 MAI have laid in this for half an hour, fasten the mackerel to a spit, roast them before a small lire, basting with melted butter; just before they are done, strew bread crumbs over ; iinisli and serve them with any fish sauce you please. Mackerel (soft Roes of) en Cciisses.— Take the soft roes from half a dozen broiled mackerel, put them into paper cases with shred parsley, raspings, butter, salt, and pepper. Bake them, and when done, serve them with lemon juice. Mackerel (soft Roes of) Petits-p&tes.— Take the soft roes from four mackerel; put them into a pan with clarified butter, sufficient to cover them; then put the pan into an oven; when done, take them out, drain, and cut them into dice, which put into petits-pdtes ; keep them hot, and just before they are sent to table put into each some of the following sauce • Reduce two Spoonsful of veloutf and one of consomme, then add a little butter and thick cream, season with pepper and salt, and pour it in quite hot. Mackerel (Soused).—Thoroughly wash and clean them; take out the roes, boil them in salt and water; when they are done, take them out, and lay them in a deep dish; pour away half the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the rest of the liquor as much vinegar as will cover them, with two or three bay leaves. They should lie two or three days before they are eaten. MADELAINES.*—Take nine ounces of powder sugar, eight of flour, the yolks of four and six whole eggs, two spoonsful of brandy, and a grain of salt; put these into a saucepan, stirring continually, until the paste thickens ; after which, stir only one minute; clarity ten ounces of good fresh butter, with which butter about two and thirty madelaine moulds; pour the remainder of the butter into your prepa- ration ; set it on a gentle stove, stir till it begins to become a liquid, take it off be- fore it has time to get too hot, put a little of this into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. Madelaines en Surprise.*'—Make your madelaines in the usual way; when cold, cut a thin slice from the bottom, take out nearly all the inside; pound four ounces of blanched filberts, mix them with eight spoonsful of apricot marmalade, which mixture put into the madelaines, and place the slice taken from the bottom, and serve them. MAGNONNAISE « la Ravigotte,*— Take of chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, each A a handful, and a little chibol, and having I picked and washed, scald them for five or • six minutes in boiling water with a little I salt in it; then let them cool, drain and I squeeze out all the water, and pound them i well, moistening with a spoonful of the I magnonnaise (see Magnonnaise, Tl'/iite); )■ strain this through a silk sieve, and mix it II witli a magnonnaise prepared as above ; if it be not sufficiently green, add a small quantity of essence of spinach. Magnonnaise ( White).*—Put into a pan the yolks of two eggs, a good pinch of salt, and the quarter of a dessert-spoon- I ful of tarragon vinegar ; take a wooden II spoon, stir them up quickly, and when it jl begins to thicken, add half a dessert- | spoonful of the best olive oil; as the sauce I continues to thicken, put in a few drops | of vinegar, then oil, and so on, still rapidly I stirring and rubbing the spoon against the ■ jg sides of the pan. In proportion as the | sauce gains consistence, increase, by de- [ grees, the quantity of oil and vinegar, and add a little aspic jelly; do not cease stir- ring until you have thus amalgated two glasses of oil, half a glass of aspic jelly, and as much vinegar as you find neces- I sary to render the sauce palatable ; when done, it should be of the consistence of thick cream, and equally smooth; keep it in a cool place till you want to use it. MAIDS.—They should hang up for one day at least. You may either broil or fry ! them. If they are of a tolerable size, you | may boil the middle part, and fry the fins. They should be dipped in egg, and covered i with bread crumbs. MAITRE D’HOTEL (Cold).*—Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a sauce- pan, with some parsley and slialots, minced small, salt, whole pepper, and lemon juice; mix the whole together with a wooden spoon. Pour the Maitre d’Hotel either over, under, or into whatever meat or fish you intend to serve, Maitre d’Hotel (Life).*—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-spoonful of flour, parsley, and scallions, chopped small, salt, whole pepper, and two ladiesful of slock; set it on the fire only just as it is wanted; stir it like a white sauce; if it be too thick, put in a little lemon juice and water; thicken with yolks of eggs. This sauce should be of the same con- sistence as while sauce. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. — Take three spoonsful of bechamel sauce, add to it two