CHE CUE 138 has stood a little time, strain it again, so that it may he quite clear, then stir up with some espagnole. Take three small cabbages cut into quar- ters, blanch them, open each quarter, and season it with a little salt; tie them up, and put them in a stewpau, lined with ham and bacon, with a sausage, a piece of ba- con, two small partridges larded, parsley, and green onions, season the whole, and cover it with slices of bacon, moisten it with pocle or cansornmc, and let it stew over a gentle lire for two hours. Whilst the above is cooking, drain the carrots and turnips, and place them ac- cording to fancy in a buttered mould, so as to cover the sides and bottom completely; then (bain the cabbages in a cullender, and press the other ingredients in a napkin; trim the bacon, and cut the sausages into thin slices ; lay the cabbages lightly in the mould, then the bacon and sausages like a cord; then place the partridges, breasts downwards, the bacon and sausages on them, and fill the mould (making the top quite flat) with the cabbages; lay a buttered paper over the whole, and put it into the bain-marie for an hour. Before it is turned from the mould let it drain well; when ready for table, the dish and char- treuse may he ornamented in various ways, according to fancy. CHEESE.—To select good cheese is a department of marketing that requires great judgment; a nice palate, and a sen- sitive nose are the two chief requisites ; but the eye is a necessary organ, not only for detecting what escapes the inquiry of these senses, as mites, decay, &c., but with good judges it will usually tell a prime cheese from an indifferent one, by the texture and colour alone. . In choosing this necessary article, at- tention must be paid to the appearance of the rind. Cheshire cheese, from a good dairy, is in its prime at two years, pro- vided it has been well kept. A damp Storehouse produces premature decay, and fills it with mites. Cheese, even of the finest quality, is apt to deceive those unacquainted with the article, both in taste and smell, when judging by the taster, or when first cut, as it will frequently possess a strong and unpleasant flavour, although in a few days after being cut, exposure to the air will render it pure and agreeable to the smell and taste. It is hence the custom with experienced caterers to lay in a stock of Cheshire cheese, and to keep it in a dry cellar in sawdust, in a box, by which, in two or three months, it improves, and is fit to cut. It is then well to divide it into two parts, or to take out a fourth, accord- ing to its size ; spread butter on the part t to be reserved, and keep it in a dry place; that for use should be exposed in the larder on the cheese-shelf, three or four days, when it will be ready for the table. A cer- | tain late worthy alderman and vintner, i famed for his knowledge of the larder, for many years was accustomed to put Che- shire cheeses in a sack, cover them with a basket, and bury them under his summer stock of coals, and in the winter, as they reduced, he used to say, “ Now is the time for my old Cheshire.” No cheese of equal flavour, perhaps, was eaten in the city of London. We speak of Cheshire, par excellence, as the most piquant and fine-flavoured of English cheese, although the modem gour- mands are pleased to designate the Stilton cheese the British Parmesan. Good Stilton, however, such'as may be purchased at Cullum’s in Old Bond-street, is a treat for the most refined palate, and is generally preferred at the tables of the great, even bv those Amphytrions, whose authority few will be hardy enough to dispute. Stilton cheese, made in May or June, is usually served at table at Christmas. If made at a capital dairy, however, it is ini better order at ten, or even twelve months, or, if well managed, even at a later period. . It is customary with certain tavern- keepers to produce an artificial ripeness on Stilton, to please those pseudo con- noisseurs, their vain customers, who boast loudly of their superior taste in these mat- ters, when in the chair, and who verify the couplet of the inimitable poet— “ Doubtless the pleasure is ns great In being cheated as to cheat.” Mine host manages the matter thus : A Stilton, -with a nigged and picturesque coat, is tapped, and in the nperture is in- serted a small piece of mile-touched old Cheshire, and then stopped with a wet cloth. In three weeks or a month it is ripe enough, and relished by the convives with its concomitnnt, a glass of port, as a bonne bouche fit for the gods ! - Certain epicures are accustomed to male a conical excavation on the top ol a Stilton, and to pour therein from two to tour glasses, or even more, of port, claret, or Madeira wine, which being absorbed for three weeks or a month, they maintain.