424 PIG no spoonsful of vinegar and half a glass of water; boil these up twice, and then pour them on the birds. Pigeons in Caul.* — Take some very young pigeons, and having trussed them, split them down the back, and fill them with a good farce; lay a thin slice of bacon over each half, and wrap them in a piece of caul, previously soaked in warm water; bread them, and bake in a moderate oven. Piceons a la Charmante.—Scald half a dozen small pigeons, and braise them with a few slices of bacon and lemon, a bundle of herbs, a proper quantity of stock, pepper and salt. In the mean time lard three or four sweetbreads, which stew slowly in a little broth, with some thin slices of veal, a bundle of herbs, two cloves, basil, and two or three scallions ; as soon as they are done, skim, strain, and reduce the liquor, and glaze the sweetbreads with it; then lay them on a dish alternately with the pigeons, over which pour a sauce made as follows : put a little consommd into the pan with the glaze, stir it round to gather what may adhere to the bottom and sides of the pan, then strain, and add more pepper and salt if requisite; squeeze in a little lemon- juice. Take care none of the sauce goes on the sweetbreads, as it would spoil the look of the glaze. Pigeons (Chartreuse of).*—Take a num- ber of carrots and turnips, some of which cut into pieces the size of your finger, some into bits only an inch long, and the remainder (and they ought to be the largest) into farthings ; blanch all in a little salt and water, then drain and cook them in some consomme; blanch also some French beans, young peas, lettuces or cabbages; when done, press out the water from the latter, drain the rest, and let them cool; then take a circular mould, line it com- pletely with a white paper, well buttered ; on the bottom of this place a layer of the carrots and turnips (in farthings), the beans and peas, round the sides of the mould; place first, the other pieces of carrots and turnips (properly intermixed), then the lettuces or cabbages; in the cen- tre of this put three pigeons poetts, cut in pieces. Malco a small macedoine with what vegetables may remain from the above ; mix it with an allemande, and having reduced it, pour it over the birds, so that it will fill up all the interstices and cover the whole with cabbages or lettuces ; keep it hot in the bain-marie ; do not turn it out till the moment it should be sent to table; drain off the water, and glaze it. Pigeons in Chipolata.*—Having pre- pared and trussed your pigeons, place them in a braising pan between slices of bacon, with some veal, two carrots, three onioDS, two bay-leaves, cloves, parsley, scallions, thyme, and a ladleful of stock; simmer them for an hour ; then drain and place them on a disli; mask with a chipolata. Pigeons en Compote *— Truss and tie into proper form three pigeons; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, add to it a dessert-spoonful of flour, and make a roux, in which brown some slices of streaky bacon ; pour on the pigeons a ladleful and a half of water, with some parsley, seal- | lions, a bay leaf, mushrooms, salt, and pep- • per, stir it well till it boils, skim it, and when the pigeons are three parts done, put in some small onions, well pickled, and previously done up in a little butter and drained. Lay the birds in a dish ; garnish with the onions and bacon. Pigeons a la Conti.*-—Make a farce with the white meat of fowl or game, bacon, and crumb of bread pounded together, and j mixed with yolks of eggs ; stuff your pi- ; geons with this, truss, tie them in slices I of bacon, and roast them gently ; lay toasts I in the dripping-pan to receive what falls | from them ; serve the birds on the toasts. Pigeons en Coquilles* — Take three or four pigeons, put them into a deep dish j with some lard, cover them close, and place the dish on hot ashes ; take some scol- lop-shells, line them with thin slices of • bacon, and when the pigeons are done, J put one in each of the shells, and cover I them with puff-paste, put them into a gen- tle oven for a quarter of an hour. Pigeons a la Crapaudine.*—Iruss your pigeons with the feet inwards, cut them, open from the end of the breast to the j crop, but do not separate them; flatten 1 the backs, season and broil them. Boil i together a dessert-spoonful of shred shalots, three spoonsful of vinegar, half a glass of water, salt and pepper; pour this sauce over the broiled pigeons, and serve them. J Pigeons a la Ccuillere.*—Put a good ; bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and i pepper, into a pan, in which give halt a dozen pigeons a few turns ; let them be I browned, put them into a stewpan between > slices of bacon, with the above butter, &c. and some poelte, set them on the fire tor a j quarter of an hour, then drain and serve them with a cray-fish between each over a green Hollandaise. Pigeons a la I'iane.—Cut some puff-pas e into eight pieces, each of which press into