211 CUR CUR cullis, but it must not boil, and the cullis must be very white; but if not white enough, pound two dozen of sweet al- monds blanched, and put it into the cullis; then boil a glass of milk, and add it to the cullis ; let it be of a good flavour, and Strain it off; then put it into a small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be used for white loaves, crust of white bread, and .biscuits. CURACAO.*—This is a species of bit- ter or wiki orange, of which the rind is dried, and may be had at the druggists. To make the liqueur called by this name, wash a pound of Curasao several times in warm water; then, having well drained, put them into a vessel with four quarts of brandy, and one of water; let it stand closely covered for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; distil it after that in "the usual way, and drain the Curasao on a sieve. Sweeten it with five pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in three pints of water, mix it with the spirit and then filter it. CURD Cukes.—Take a quart of curds, eight eggs, leaving out four whites; put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little flour; mix these well together, heat butter, in a fryingpan, drop them in, and fry like fritters. Gunns and Cream.—Put what quantity of milk you please into a pan, made rather warm, then add rennet. When the curd is come, lade it with a shape into an earthen pan, perforated, of any form you please. As the whey drains, fill it up, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before it is wanted, it will he very light, but for those who like it harder, it should be made earlier, and squeezed. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, should be put into the dish or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. Cunn Pudding (Boiled).—Rub the curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, through a sieve; then mix with six eggs, u little cream, two spoonsful of orange- flower water, half a nutmeg grated, three spoonsful of flour, and three spoonsful of bread crumbs, half a pound of currants, •Old half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil for one hour, in a thick cloth well floured. Cuun Puddings or Puffs.—Turn two quarts of milk to curds, press the whey from the curd, and rub it through a sieve; then add to it four ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny roll, two spoonsful of cream, and half a nutmeg grated, a little sugar, and two spoonsful of white wine. Butter little cups, or small pattypans, and fill them three parts full. Bake them care- fully, and serve with sweet sauce. Gunn Puffs.-—Take the curd of two quarts of new milk, drain it dry, add to it the yolks of seven eggs, and the whites of two, sugar, rose water, nutmeg, and bread crumbs; make into a paste, cut in what shape you please, fry them in boiling lard, and serve them with a sauce made with butter, sugar, and white wine. Curd Star.—Put a quart of new milk over the fire with a few blades of mace - and when ready to boil, add to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon the point of a small knife. Let it boil till the whey is clear; then drain it on a thin cloth or hair sieve, season it with sugar and a little cinnamon, rose water, orange- flower water or white wine, to your taste, and put it into a star mould, or any other form you please. Leave it to stand for some hours before you turn it into a dish - then put round it a thick cream or custard’. Curds and Whey.—Take a number of the rough coats that line the gizzards of tuikeys and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles they contain, rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and delicate curd than com- mon rennet. When to be used, break off same bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water ; in eight or nine hours use tee liquor as you do other rennet. ™fRA*T Cf;es-—-Pick and wash the cuirants, either white or red; to two Quarts of currants, put one pint of water; when boiled run the juice through a jelly-bag, nutnlPereSS 6W^t0 °ne juice put thiee pounds of sugar; boil up the juice, and strew in the sugar; pour it into glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out,.tlien dry the cakes on plates. (Conserve °f)* —Take the and n„?r 1?°Unds 0f red currants, and put them on the fire in a silver pan to Sd iT’,then P1'ess them^ougli a sieve, and put them again on the fire, stirrimr constantly until you can see the bottom <T 1 e pan; then, having dissolved and boiled tlnee pounds of sugar to casse, pour it on fhe fruit, stirring continually; in a sjlort ****»»> bS,” ss it bubbles; then pour it into moulds. tint 'iirn tl' ^ m""‘ Bruise some currants nut n i th°rou8:hl7 ripe in 1,oiled cream ; Put in beaten cinnamon, and sweeten to