517 VEA VEG stock, a glass of white wine, seasoned with a little salt, and pepper; when done, skim and strain the sauce, add a little cullis, and serve this over the sweet- breads. Veal Sweetbreads larded.—Parboil two -or three sweetbreads ; when they are cold, lard them down the middle with little bits of bacon, on each side with bits of lemon peel, and beyond that with a little pickled cucumber cut very small; stew them gently in cullis or rich gravy, thickened with a little flour, add mushroom powder, Cayenne, salt, if necessary, and a little lemon juice. Veal Sweetbread Pie. — (See Sweet- bread under the letter S.) Veal Sweetbreads roasted.—Trim off the tough part, and blanch for three minutes in a stewpan of water, with a little salt, three heart sweetbreads, then take them out, and put them into a basin of cold wa- ter till cool; have an egg heat up in a dish, some bread crumbs, and clarified butter, run a skewer through the sweet- breads, and fasten them on the spit; egg them all over, shake some bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clarified butter over, and then bread crumbs again; put them down to roast again for a quarter of an hour, then take them off the skewer, and serve them on a dish over a little butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful of gravy, a small bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon juice; let it he hot, hut not boiling, and thoroughly well mixed before it is served under the sweetbreads. Veal Sweetbreads (Saute of').*—Prepare, scald, and drain the sweetbreads; when cold, cut them into slices about half an inch thick ; put some clarified butter into a tossing-pan, season the slices with pepper and salt, lay them in the pan, pour more butter over them, and set the pan on a hot stove ; when one side is done, turn them ; they require a very short time to dress them. Serve them with an Italienne, and glaze them. Vea l Sweetbreads to slew.—Parboil them, and stew them in white gravy ; add cream’ Hour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Veal Sweetbreads with Sweet Herbs Braise them the same as with cullis sauce, or much in the same manner; take all sorts of sweet herbs, finely chopped, or any two or one in particular, and simmer them for some time in good cullis, and serve upon the braised sweetbreads, either whole or cut in pieces. Veal Tendons a, la Provenfale*—Cut your tendons into scallops, scald and press them ; when cold, put them into a tossing- pan, with a half glaze ; take care that the glaze covers them entirely ; place the ten- dons on a dish, en couronne; have ready some onions dressed as follows : Cut them in slices, and fry them, with a very little garlic, in some oil; drain the onion, sim- mer in a spoonful of espagnole, with a little vinegar and allspice ; pour this over the tendons and serve. VEGETABLES.—Vegetables should be gathered fresh, picked clean, trimmed or pared neatly, and washed in several waters. Those that are to be plain boiled should be put into plenty of boiling water, with salt in it, and drained the moment they are sufficiently done. If over boiled they lose their crispness and beauty. Vegetables (Dish of).—Wash a dish with white of raw egg', then make four divisions in it with fried bread, and put alternately into each division the following vegetables: Spinach, turnips, potatoes, sliced carrots, and small onions, or cauli- flower, or heads of broeoli, all previously stewed in a little cullis; when put into the dish, let as much of the essence as possible adhere to them. You may, if you please, instead of making the divi- sions of fried bread, make them of mashed potatoes and yolks of eggs mixed together, and put on the dish in as many divisions as you please ; afterwards baked till of a nice colour, and served to table with any kind of stewed vegetables you may ap- prove. Vegetable Marrow.*—The smallest are considered the best for dressing; they should be put into hot water with a little salt, and boiled for half an hour, that they may he quite tender; serve them on toasted bread, witli plain butter in a boat. Vegetables in a Mould.—Line the in- side of an oval mould witli rashers of bacon ; then set upright alternately, slips of turnips, carrots, pickled cucumbers, and celery, and asparagus heads. Lay a force- meat at the bottom of the mould, and round the insido of the vegetables; fill the centre with stewed beef tails, with the bones taken out, or with small pieces of mutton or veal passed with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Cover with forcemeat, wash it over with egg and bake it. When it is to he served, turn it gently out of the mould upon a dish, take oft' the