450 RAB QUI parte, add the fruit, give the whole one boil (covered) ; let it cool a little, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour, after which, leave it till next day ; when, proceed as above, hut boil the syrup to grand per It. As soon as the preserve is cooled, pour it into pots, adding to each a little quince jelly. A little prepared cochineal added to the above, will give the preserve a fine red colour ; in which case the jelly ought also to be red. Quinces (Preserved) in White Jelly. Take as many quinces as you may require, choose them sound; pare, quarter, and core them, strewing powder-sugar over as you do them, filling up all the holes also with sugar ; throw in a small quantity of water, and when all are cut, add more water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, and the syrup clear, add some apple jelly, give the whole one boil, and then pour it into glasses ; when cold, drain off the syrup and jelly, put them into a saucepan, and let them boil as quick as you can ; just before the jelly is taken off, put in a small quantity of musk, or any other ingredient you may wish to flavour the preserve with, and then pour it in the glasses again, over the quinces, and when cold, cover them. This may also he coloured red by adding a small quantity of prepared cochineal; in this case, the jelly should be red too. Quince Pudding.-—Take a sufficient number of ripe quinces to yield a pound of pulp, to which put half a pound of powder sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two drachms, pounded ; mix them well. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream, add the quince, &c., stir the whole together, flour a cloth, tie the pudding in, and boil it. Quinces (Ratafia of)*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, three quarts of the juice of quinces, three pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm of cinnamon, and the same of cloves, both bruised. Proceed as follows put the spice into the brandy and leave it; scrape the quinces, and let the scrapings lie for twenty-four hours to ferment; after that time put them into a close linen cloth, and express the juice by means of a wine-press ; ad(l .tins juice to the spiced brandy, and leave it for three weeks or a month, then draw it ofl ; dis- solve the sugar, filter and put it to the ratafia. Coriander or mace, or both, may be added, if approved. Quinces, the S-pajiish way.—Pare and core ten pounds of quinces, put them into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of water and two pounds of fine sugar; set them on a slow fire, and when they begin to dry, moisten them with rose-water and sack, or white wine; then press the paste through a coarse sieve, add two pounds of sugar, a little orange-flower and rose- water. When sufficiently done, it will come off clean, if dropped on a plate ; then set it aside to cool. Put it into shallow pots, strew perfumed comfits over, and cover them close. Quinces (Syrup of).*—Pare and scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen cloth, press out the juice, which put in a very warm place, or where it is exposed to the sun, until all the fecula falls to the bot- tom ; then strain it well, and for every quarter of a pound of juice take one pound of sugar; mix them together, and boil the whole to perte ,* take it off, and when the syrup is nearly cold, it may be bottled. Take care to keep the bottles well corked. Quince Tart. — Take some preserved quinces, make a syrup with some sugar and water, of which and the preserve take an equal weight, and put it into a pre- serving-pan ; boil, skim, and then putin the fruit; when tolerably clear, lay the quinces in a tart-dish, with puff-paste, as usual; cover and bake it; as soon as it is done, raise the top gently, pour in the syrup, ice it, and serve. R. RABBITS.—The rules for choosing rabbits are the same as for choosing hares; and observe the same rules as for skinning and trussing hares, except, in skinning rabbits, cut off the ears; and it two together are roasted, skewer each head against the shoulder outwards, with four or" five skewers through the bodies, to fasten them well to the spit. Rabbits may he dressed according to the receipt for chickens. Rabbit (Atelets of).*-Take the meat from some roasted rabbits, remove tie skin and sinews, and cut the meat, some streaky bacon, champignons, and truffles, info pieces the size of a penny-piece . i ’P all these in an atelct sauce (see that arti- cle) ; have ready half a dozen silver sken - ers, ’on which run the above-mentione pieces alternately; rub them °'eT . molted butter and yolks of eggs,