ALM ALM 9 Almonds a la Praline Rouge.—Prepare them as above until they have taken the sugar and are ready to be taken off the the fire, put the almonds upon a sieve with a dish under, take the sugar that drops, and put it into the same pan, add- ing a little fresh ; refine it till it comes to the twelfth degree (au cassd), then take cochineal, colour sufficient to tinge the almonds, and put them therein; give them a few turns over the fire in the sugar, and finish as at first. Almond Pudding (to bake'). — Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, in warm water; pound them in a marble mortar with two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and two of rose wa- ter, and a gill of sack; mix in four grated Naples biscuits, three quarters of a pound of melted butter; beat eight eggs, and mix them with a quart of cream boiled, grate in half a nutmeg, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; mix all well toge- ther ; make a thin puff paste, and lay all over the dish. Pour in the ingredients, and bake it. Almond Pudding (baked).—Steep foui ounces of crumbs of bread sliced in a pirn and half of cream, or grate the bread ; ther beat half a pound ofblanclied almonds very fine, till they become a paste, with two tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water: put in a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar^ and stir in three or four ounces of melted butter; put it over the fire, and keep etiirmg until it is thick; lay a sheet oi paper at the bottom of a dish, and pour in the ingredients. To bake half an hour. Almond Pudding, as prepared at Mexico. One pound of blanched almonds, one pound of powder sugar, twelve yolks of ep and eight whites well beaten to^e- ther, and baked in a flour and water crust. ■1 bis is also used for puffs. Almond Pudding.*—Blanch and beat a pound of sweet almonds with a little rose water, mix a pound of bread grated, a vnU™68/ -la f a p0Und of butter. and the ioure,l°f S!f eg8S ; boil il pint of cream co- loured with a very little saffron, add it to eggs and a little flour, knead it well and then put in the almonds, beating it up till al! is mixed together. Boil it for half an hour in a buttered cloth. Almond Puffs.-Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, and beat them fine with orange-flower water, whisk the whites of three eggs to a high froth, strew in a lit- tle sifted sugar, mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs, and add more sugar till as thick as paste. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on paper in a cool oven. Almond Puree.*—Boil the crumb of a very light roll in a pint of fish broth, boil it slowly until nearly dissolved, then mix in with it a few sweet and two bitter al- monds, and three yolks of eggs pounded, and moistened with the same broth. Stir altogether, pass it through a tammy, di- luting it with more broth when too thick. Almond Rice.—Blanch sweet almonds and pound them in a marble mortar; mix them in a little boiling water; press them as long as there is milk in the almonds, adding fresh water every time; to every quart of almond juice, put a quarter of a pound of rice and two tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water; mix them all to- gether, and simmer it over a slow charcoal fire; stir it repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at pleasure; serve it with beaten cinnamon strewed over. Almond (bitter) Rolls.*—Blanch and pound eight ounces of almonds (five of sweet and three of bitter) to a vffry fine paste; then place eight ounces of flour on your slab; make a hole in the middle, and put into it eight ounces of powder sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and a grain of salt; mix them all well together into a firm, smooth paste; roll it out and cut it into four equal parts; roll each piece to the same length; cut them into pieces about the size of a walnut, and form them to the shape of a turnip, and as you do them put them on a baking-tin lightly buttered; dorez them and bake them of a proper colour in a moderate oven. When they are taken from the oven, let them stand a little while to dry. Almond (bitter) Souffle Francis.*— 1 ound four ounces of bitter almonds to a fine paste as usual, then throw them into boiling milk (nine glasses) and three quarters of a pound of sweet macaroons; cover this for a quarter of an hour, and then strain it through a napkin. lu the mean time wash a pound of Carolina rice in several waters, warm; put some cold water into a saucepan, and when it has boiled a few minutes, add to it the rice in a sieve and the infusion of almonds; when well boiled, put the saucepan on hot ashes, that the rice may burst gradually. In threo quarters of an hour''put to it ten ounces of powder sugar, three quarters of a pound of good fresh butter, and a pinch of salt, stir them in well, put fresh cinders under the saucepan, and let it boil gently for an hour; then, if the lice is quite