BEE BEE 55 a tureen, and first put in a layer of beef, tlien a layer of bacon, and continue first with a layer of beef then of bacon, with a little seasoning, then put in a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonsful of water, close ! the lid of the tureen, and let it stew over some hot ashes; when done, you may either clear oft' the fat or not, according as you think proper, then serve it in the tu- reen. Beef (Pickled).—Take a piece of beef, stick it all over with garlic and cloves, seasou it well with salt, mace, and all- spice, cover the meat with vinegar and turn it every day for a fortnight; as the vinegar wastes, add more; then put it in a stewpot with some vinegar and white wine, cover it down very close, stew it six hours, if a large piece ; add vinegar and white wine to it as it stews, if neces- sary: some onions should be stewed to eat with it. Beef to pickle the Jews’ Way.—Take any piece of beef without bones, or take the bones out, if you intend to keep it above a month; take mace, cloves, nut- meg, and pepper, juniper berries beat fine, and rub the beef well, mix salt and Ja- maica pepper and bay leaves; let it be well seasoned, let it lie in the seasoning a week or ten days, throw in a good deal of garlic and shalots; boil some of the best white wine vinegar, lay your meat in a pan or good vessel for the purpose, with the pickle ; and when the vinegar is quite cold, pour it over; cover it close. If it is for a voyage, cover it with oil, and let the cooper hoop up the barrel very well This is a most excellent way in a hot country, where meat will not keep; then it must be put into the vinegar directly with the seasoning, then you may either roast or stew it, but it is best when stewed; and add a good deal of onion and parsley chopped fine, some white gravy, a little catsup, truffles and morels, a little good gravy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, or a little oil, in which the meat and onions ought to stew a quarter of an hour before the other ingredients are put in ; then put all m, stir the-whole well, and let it stew till you think it is sufficiently done. This is a good pickle in a hot country, to keep beef or veal that is dressed to eat cold. Beef Pie a la Chaise.1*—Trim a fine W of beef. I ake a pound of lean raw hani, and cut it into lardons six inches in length,' and half an inch in diameter; then cut into lardons of the same size two pounds of fat bacon, rub the lardons of bacon over with one ounce of salt (seasoned with spices) and two spoonsful of very fine chopped sweet herbs. Weigh your beef, and according to its weight to each pound of meat take four drachms of spiced salt, and put this salt apart; then lard your beef all over with the lardons of ham and bacon (putting a lardon of ham between two lardons of bacon), and sticking these lardons at three quarters of an inch dis- tance from each other. When your beef is completely larded, tie it in as neat a round as possible. Line a stewpan with lards of bacon, adding a pound of ham cut into thin slices, then put in your beef, with two carrots, four onions (two of which should be stuck with cloves), par- sley, scallion, bay, thyme, basil, a glass of consomme, a bottle of Madeira, half a glass of brandy, and the spiced salt which you had previously put apart. Cover the whole with buttered paper. After it has boiled for half an hour, place it by the side of the stove and let it simmer for five hours ; then put it into a cool place, and let it cool in its own liquor. When it is cold place your beef upon a dish, pass your liquor through a napkin, then take the. ham and the bacon (which have been boiled with the beef), and mince them with a pound of fillet of veal, adding to this mince twelve drachms of spiced salt, four spoons- ful of finely chopped herbs, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, and one spoonful of veloute. Put this farce into a pan, and add an ox palate d Vecarlate cut into little dice. This preparation finished, take some paste and form it into a round, to answer the purpose of a dish ; put half of the farce into the bottom of your paste spreading it all about; then trim your beef, so that it will easily go into the paste with- out spoiling the form of the paste ; put the trimmings of the beef upon the farce which you have put at the bottom of the paste, then place upon it the beef, strew- over it an ounce of spiced salt, and mash the beef with the rest of the farce; and cover the whole with a pound of butter, and some lards of bacon ; tlien cover with paste, or- nament your pie, and put it in an oven, and let it bake for four hours. After it is baked pour into your pie the liquor in which the beef was boiled; this liquor ought not to exceed three glasses full; if it does exceed this quantity it must bo reduced ; then close the pie very carefully with more paste. 1 hese pies are extremely delicious, and very useful in travelling; but they