BRE 85 BRE The Cellar.—A good brewer, cellar- man, &c. will take delight in the well- ordering of the cellar. Attention must be paid to cleanliness botli in his person and business; every thing in the cellar conse- quently should be kept in due order. The brewer, or cellarman to the nobleman, or gentleman, who maintains a large esta- blishment, should occupy himself every morning in the cellars. The following duties are incumbent : ■ During the summer months, have the beer-cellars and stairs clean washed weekly, and particularly under the casks. Empty the tap-tubs daily, into a cask kept for the purpose of containing the slops and grounds; for the cellars, on opening, should always smell pure and sweet. By attention to these offices, the cellars are not only plea- sant to enter, but the beer is kept fine and cool during- the hot months ; whereas, by inattention to cleanliness, a filthy cellar will cause the beer to turn sour. During the winter months, scraping and sweeping out the cellars once a week will be sufficient. Observe, all cellars, in the winter, cannot be kept too close and warm, for without great attention on this point, the liquors cannot thrive. The following necessaries should be pro- vided for cellars to large establishments. Those families who brew on a smaller soale, will apply their uses according to their proportionate convenience : Suitable shot, and lead canister, with holes in bottom, and two cloths to wash bottles, to be kept in the bottle-rack. 1 wo suitable tubs for washing bottles only, with a form to standon. Six strain-cocks! bungs, corks, vent-pegs, and a mallet. A pair of pliers, to draw pegs, and cork- ctrawer. A leathern boot to buckle on the hnee, to contain the bottles when corkim- them, for if the bottle breaks the boot saves the liquor. A strong, heavy, mahogany cork driver. Six strong prickles to be Kept ln a dry place. Coarse linen to put under the bungs ; the old hop-sacks will serve. Six tin spouts, the size of a beer- cock, made at the lower end as broad as a banker s shovel at the bottom, for the beer to work through, from the top cork-hole, !' ith Jr°wn Paper round the top. A strong iron skewer to raise bungs with. A mid- dle-sized cooper’s gimlet, the sizo of the small spigots and faucets. A quire of trong brown paper to put round cocks, ... another quire to make hop-bags with. ?tr0ng sT°nSes to clean the utsides of the casks, &c. A pair of slums to grapple the casks with, to take into the cellars, for rolling them will cause dirt to hang about them, &c. A pair of strong folding steps. Half a dozen mahogany- spigots and faucets, about the size of the little finger, to be had of the best turners (being much superior to pegs, which are wasteful), to try all liquors if they are fine, &c. A strong hammer and iron driver, such as the coopers use, to drive down the hoops with, which have loosened from tubs, casks, &c. Two split sticks, for cellar can- dlesticks. Six ironbound tap-tubs, and brush to clean them with. A whisk, for the yeast, wine finings, &c. A six-gallon tub for the yeast, and pour the beer from it daily, then whisk the yeast up in the tub, and it will be fit for use. Delph labels to hang on the tops of all the liquor bins, as claret, champaign, sherry, calcavella, porter, cider, perry, port, rhenish, &c. A pewter crane, and valench. Four, or six ice-pails, for wines, &c. in summer. A wine basket, made to bold the bottles that are crusted on their sides, to bring from the cellar in that posi- tion. A raising-jack, to raise wine in casks upon their stands. A pulley and ropes to let wine and liquor down into the cellars. A wine-bit of various sizes, to bore the casks with. A flogger to beat up the wine bungs with. Two strong ironbound pails. A gunter’s gauge rule. A stamped bushel measure, to measure the malt with a strike. A small cooper’s adze. A pair of steel- yards to weigh the hops, or scales, with stamped lead or iron weights, to be kept dry. Two tin funnels, to put in spare bottles when bottling off. A. large wood ditto, for all beers. Two low stools to sit on. A leathern apron, with a pocket before, ior pegs, &c. and bib to button upon the waistcoat. A flannel bag, with hoop on top, made as a jelly-bag, to run the lees of all wine through. A common corkscrew. An ironbound wine-can, for fining wines iu. A hoe, a spade, six good stiff birch brooms, and the same number of strong rag mops. ° 1 he use of the iron skewer is to raise up the bung by degrees, first giving it vent, for drawing it up with the hands is a dan- gerous operation. Have a large cupboard made and fixed in the cellar, or near it, in a dry spot, to bold most of the small tools, so that every thing may be at hand when wanted, kucli tools as are too large for the cupboard, may be kept in the brewhouse. Malt.—In choosing the malt, take espe„