BEE BEE 48 Beef Bouilli.*—Take a rump of beef, or part of one ; bone and tie it together in a neat form, and put it into a pot, with any odd bits of butchers’ meat you may happen to have in the house, either beef, veal, or mutton; you may add, also, the bones, feet, and necks of poultry or game, the meat of which has been taken for other dishes; place your pot on a moderate fire, not quite full of water, and skim gently. When it has boiled a short time, put in some salt, turnips, six carrots, and six onions, into one of which you should stick three cloves ; add a bunch of leeks. Let the whole boil gently, till the beef is perfectly done; then take it out, and serve it up either with fresh parsley, with a sauce, or with onions or other vegetables, or with haricot sauce. Beef (boiled) to eat cold.—Slice your beef as thin as possible, and also an onion or shalot; then squeeze on it the juice of a lemon or two, and shake all together be- tween two plates ; when it is well beaten, and tastes sharp of the lemon, put it into a deep dish, pick out the onion, and pour oil on it, shred some parsley and strew over it, garnish it with lemon, and serve. Beef boiled with sweet Herbs*—Line the bottom of a dish with butter, sweet herbs chopped, and bread grated fine, put upon this your beef, cut as small as possible, cover it with sweet herbs, pieces of butter, and bread grated fine, let it cook over a gentle fire, put fire also on the lid of your saucepan, when the beef is completely browned, serve it. You may add pickled gherkins or capers. Beef Brains.* — Put the brains into tepid water to cleanse them from the blood, and to take off the thin skin which covers them; take them out and put them into more tepid water; afterwards put them into boiling water to blanch them ; when they have been a few minutes in the boil- ing water take them out, and put them into fresh water ; cook them in a proper quantity of water, with the juice of a lemon, an onion cut in slices, some parsley, and some bay leaves. Beef Brains en Sauce Aurora*—Well wash four beef brains, blanch them, and cook them in a marinade of white wine; when they are done, divide them into six- teen pieces, splitting each half brain through the middle ; dress them on a dish in the form of a crown, and serve with Aurora sauce. Beef Brains au Beurre Noir.*—Well wash your brains to cleanse them from the blood, the skin, and fibres, that are about the brains; then put them into lukewarm water to soak for two hours; after which put them into a stewpan between slices of bacon, with bay leaves, sliced onions, carrots, parsley, a glass of white wine, and some stock; let the whole simmer for half an hour; drain them, and serve with black butter, poured all over, and fried parsley in the middle. Beef Brains au Beurre Noir*—Cook some brains in a marinade, then leave them to drain; serve them on a dish with a sauce au beurre noir, and garnish with fried parsley. Brains may be served with any sauce you please. Beef Brains fried*—Let your brains be properly marinated, then leave them to drain, make a preparation with warm water, a little butter and salt, some flour, a spoonful of oil, and the whites of eggs whipped to snow, mix all together to the consistence of butter, dip your brains into this batter, and then fry them a nice brown colour; when fried let them drain on a dry cloth ; garnish with fried parsley. Beef Brains en Marinade.*—W ell wash your brains, scald them, and put them into a marinade; then make some batter, dip your brains into it, and then fry them, taking care that the fat is not too hot. If it so happens that you wish to fry brains which have been previously dressed, you must cut them in pieces, season them with salt and pepper, then put them into just sufficient vinegar to cover them; after- wards drain them, put them into batter and fry them. Beef Brains en Matelotte.*—Have ready a little Spanish sauce, add to it a glass of red or white wine, some small onions browned in butter, and some mushrooms; then cut your brains into pieces, that have been first boiled, and put them into this preparation, give it a single boil, and then serve. Garnish with artichoke bottoms, crayfish, crusts of bread, and sweetbreads. Beef Brains a la Sauce piquante*—Pre- pare and dress your brains the same as for Brains au Beurre Noir. Drain them, put them on a dish, and pour a sauce piquante all over them. Beef Brains a la Paulette.*—Well wash some brains, blanch them, and cook them in a marinade of white wine, then make boiling hot a reduced German sauce, add- ing some mushrooms, some parsley, and a quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, some whole pepper, stirring it well