423 PIG PIG clean, wash it well with warm water, and afterwards in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails; put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in i cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. Pigs Stuffed(Sucking).*—Having scalded , a pig, singe, and bone it to the head, which 6 leave whole; take a pound of call’s liver, a pound of bacon, mince both these with a little sage, pounded spice, aromatic herbs, salt and pepper ; till the body of the pig with this; also roll in it some large lardons, also lard the limbs and back of the pig; sew in the farce, rub the whole body with lemon, lay in a cloth some sage, and four bay leaves, cover the back of the pig with slices of bacon, place it in the cloth, and tie it up ; put it into a saucepan; pour on it equal quantities of good stock, and white wine, and. let it simmer for three hours and a half over a moderate fire ; then take it off, and leave it in the saucepan ; in a hour’s time take it out, press it carefully, so that the shape may not be spoiled; do not re- move the cloth until perfectly cold; lay a folded napkin on a dish, and serve the pig on it. Pig’s Tails a la Puree*—Take a half : dozen pig’s tails, leave on the skin, and (cut them into pieces about eight inches long; brflise with some lentils, two carrots, I two onions, two cloves, a bay-leaf, stock, ■ or water, and salt; when they are done, i finish in the same manner as pig’s ears a la I puree. Pig’s Tongues (Smoked).*—Take asmany i pig’s tongues as you please, take out the i horny parts, scald them sufficiently to enable 1 you to remove the first skin ; put them, as I closely together as you can, iuto a jar, i; rubbing each with salt and a little saltpe- ^ tre, add basil,bay-leaf, thyme, and juniper ] berries ; place something heavy on the top I to press them down, fill all the inter- stices with salt, and cover the jar very close, arid set it in a cool place. In a week’s time take out the tongues, drain t> and tie them in skins like black puddings, i and smoke them. When the tongues are required for table, J boil them in water, with a little wine, a > hunch of parsley, scallions, onions, thyme, : bay-leaf, and basil. Serve them cold. PIGEONS. — Pigeons should be ex- r tremely fresh; when so, and in good or- - der, they are plump and fat at the vent, and their feet pliable; but when they are stale, the vent is open, green, and withered. Tame pigeons are considered preferable to the wild. Pigeons a VAurore.*—Put into a pan a good bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, then your pigeons ; set the pan on the fire, and brown the birds ; then mix in half a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of consommd; boil it quickly, and add some mushrooms, and an onion stuck with cloves ; in about a quarter of an hour take out the birds, reduce the sauce, add two eggs, take out the onion and bay-leaf, and pour it over the pigeons, and let them cool, and then stew them with mushrooms minced and mixed with the sauce ; moisten the birds well with the batter, and cover them with bread crumbs, dip them in eggs beaten and seasoned, and bread them again. Fry your pigeons to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Pigeons (to broil).—When thoroughly cleaned, split the backs, pepper and salt them, then broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mush- rooms, in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. Pigeons a, la Brunswick*—Take half a dozen small pigeons, which braise between slices of bacon, with a little lemon juice ; roast some truffles on hot ashes, and blanch whole artichoke bottoms in a little stock. Make a farce with veal sweetbreads, fat livers, streaked bacon, breasts of fowl or game, minced, and give these a few turns, with some good stock, the yolks of eggs, and rich cream. Put a layer of this /aree on a dish, then place the artichoke bottoms, in each of which stick a truffle, and be- tween each a pigeon, and a slice of veal glazed on the latter; cover the whole with the remainder of the farce, and pour over it some veal gravy. Pigeons en Caisses.*—Prepare six pre- viously cooked small pigeons, in a similar way to quails en caisses. Pigeons d la Casserole.* — Truss your pigeons with the feet inwards, and having put some butter into a stowpan, lay in the pigeons, breast downwards ; as soon as it is melted, season them with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatic herbs ; set the pan on a brisk fire, turn the birds every ten minutes for the space of half an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them; then put them on a dish. Take three-fourths of the but- ter from the pan, mix with the remainder a little flour, the juice of a lemon, or two