108 CAL CAL lemon sliced (without the peel) a hunch of street herbs, salt, and some roots ; stew the ears in this, and cover them with bacon. When done, serve with sauce piquante, or a la ravigotte. Calf’s Ears, and Cheese*—Prepare half a dozen ears, and boil them with half a glass of white wine, double the quantity of good stock, salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, garlic, two cloves, half a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and a bit of butter. As soon as they are done, take out the ears and let them drain. Make a stuffing with a handful of dried bread crumbs, half a pint of milk, and a little gruyere cheese, grated ; stir them over the fire until they thicken. When cold, add a little butter and the yolks of four raw eggs ; beat up all toge- ther, and fill the ears, and dip them into hot butter. Cover them with equal quan- tities of bread crumbs and grated cheese mixed together; place them in a dish, and brown them. Serve without sauce. Calf’s Ears a VItalxenne*—Scald, &c. the calfs’ ears, and boil them in flour and water, then put them into a stewpan, lined with bacon, a hunch of sweet herbs, sliced lemon, moisten with equal parts of stock and white wine. Cover the whole with buttered pepper; boil them slowly for an hour and a half; drain, trim, and place them in a dish, with sauce a I'ltulienne. Calf’s Ears in Marinade.*—When you have prepared the number of ears you re- quire, boil them in some blanc, and then throw them into cold water. When well drained, cut each ear into three or four pieces, put them into pickle made with vinegar, salt, and a bag of herbs; drain them again, and dip each piece into bat- ter, and fry of a good colour. Before you place them in a dish, they must be drained a third time. Garnish with fried parsley. Calf’s Ears in Pease.—IVhen you have properly prepared four ears, cook them in a little clear stock, lemon juice, salt, pep- per, a bunch of parsley, cloves, garlic, and a laurel leaf. When done, serve them with a ragout of pease, prepared as follows : Put a pint and a half of peas with a bit of butter, a little parsley, and green onions, and a pinch of flour, moisten with grnvy and stock into a saucepan, over a gentle fire until sufficiently done ; put in a lump of sugar about the size of a walnut, a little salt, and a spoonful of cullis; pour tho whole over tho ears. Galt's Ears, II a gout of, with Mushrooms.* Preparo and dress the ears the same as for V lialienne, and when done, drain and place them on your dish, for table. Trim, and toss up some mushrooms in butter, to which add four large spoonsful of velouti, and the same of consomme, reduce this to half; thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and pour it over the ears. Calf’s Eurs stuffed*—Scald two or j three pair of calves’ ears, and having blanched, cool and singe them ; fill each 1 ear with a good stuffing, press it in well ; dip the ears in egg, cover them with I bread crumbs, fry them of a nice brown; serve with clear gravy. Calf’s Eyes.— Clear away all the im- proper parts, blanch and cook them in a braise, made with white wine, stock, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. "When done they may be served with any kind of sauce you please. You may also fry them with breadcrumbs, &c. Calf’s Feet Blanc-mange.—Pick all the black spots from two boiled feet, slice them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of Mountain wine, and rather more water; let them stew gently; add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, with a quarter of a pint of cream and a little flour, a little lemon peel and juice, sweeten with fine sugar, strain it into a dish. When nearly cold, stick on the top some jar raisins, scalded to make them plump, almonds blanched and cut into slips, citron, lemon and orange peel sliced. It may be put in a basin; when cold turn it out. Calf’s Feet plain, boiled *—Clean and skin the feet well; take out the large bones, I boil till tender, and serve with salt, pep- per, vinegar, and sweet herbs. Calf’s Feet Broth.—Boil the feet in as much water as will make a good jelly, then strain, and set the liquor on the fire agaiit with a little mace in it; put about half a pint of sack to two quarts of the broth; add half a pound of currants ; beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix them with a little of the cold liquor, and thicken carefully over a slow fire; put in a little salt, and then sweeten to your taste; stir in a small piece of butter, and just before you take it off, put to it the juice and peel of a fresh lemon. " Calf’s Feet fried.*—Divide four calves’ feet each in half, and boil them in flour and water. Then soak them in butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, vine- gar, garlic, shalot, parsley, green onions, thyme, and laurel. After they have laid some hours in this, take them out, cover