CAK CAK 97 and squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves; then carefully take out the heart, and supply the place with parboiled chestnuts and sausages, replacing the leaves in such a manner as to conceal what is within; tie the cabbage with pack- thread, and stew it with some stock, a little salt, and coarse pepper, roots, onions, and a bunch of herbs. YVhen done, drain, and serve with a good butter sauce. CAKE, Anglo-Franfais.*—Prepare your ingredients the same as described in the receipt for Cake a la Parisienne; then add a quarter of a pound of dry currants, well washed, four ounces of muscadel raisins, one ounce of preserved cedrat, cut into small strips, one ounce of candied orange, cut in the same manner, and a glass of Spanish wine, or a glass of rum; mix the whole well together, and finish the same as for Cake a la Parisienne, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is very good eaten cold, but is much nicer cut into rather thin slices, and just browned by broiling, then placed upon a dish and masked all over with pow- dered sugar. Cake (Bolar).*—One pound of flour | dried in a slow oven, two spoonsful of | yeast, some almond milk, and water to mix j for a sponge; when raised, beat up three quarters of a pound of clarified butter, I three eggs, and three quarters of a pound of sugar, well beaten till the spoon comes . clean away; then add cinnamon powder, j candied orange and lemon. Bake in earthen 1 basins, well buttered ; keep it before the I fire till put in the oven. ^AKE (Bolar').*—When the sponge is beat, as for the last, instead of mixing the i sugar, it is rolled in the sugar and cin- j namon. Cake (Dutch Bolar).*—Done, as above, ' without sugar; then prick holes with a sharp pointed knife, and while it is hot I pour in three quarters of a pound of clari- I fled sugar, flavoured with cinnamon or orange flower. Almonds and sweetmeats ! are previously put in the cake. Orna- ment your cake with harlequin su<rar- I plums. ° This was a favourite cake of the late Queen Charlotte. Cake de Botirneville.—Work about half : a pound of flour, with five or six eggs whole, some fine chopped lemon peel, a I Jew drops of orange-flower water, a spoon- julof plain water, and a little salt; then | Jot it rest about an hour; you will put | aoout as much butter as paste, and work it afterwards well together; bake it in a mould or hoop, and garidsh as you think proper, with sugar, nonpareils, or colours. Cake (Bread), common.—Take the quan- tity of a quartern loaf from the dough when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. i it v •> '•— 11 lJUU“u ana a half of butter into half a peck of flour, three pounds of currants, half a pound of sugar a quarter of an ounce of mace, cinnamon’ and nutmeg together, a little salt, a pint and a half of warmed cream or milk, a quarter of a pint of brandy, five eggs, a pint of good ale yeast; mix it wefl to- gether; bake it in a moderate oven. This cake will keep good for a quarter of a year. Cake (Bride).—Take four pounds of fine flour well dried, four pounds of fresh butter, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the same quantity of nutmegs - to every pound of flour put eight e°-o-s - wash and pick four pounds of currants,°and dry them before the fire ; blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and cut them lengthwise, very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy ; first work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your sugar a quarter of an hour; beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong froth ; mix them with your su-ar and butter ; beat the yolks half an hour°at least, and mix them with your cake ; then putin your flour, mace, and nutmeg ; keen beating it till the oven is ready ; put in your brandy, and beat the currants and al- monds lightly in; tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of your hoops to keep it irom running out ; rub it well with butter put in your cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays, with cake between every lay after it is risen and coloured, cover it with paper before your oven is stopped up ; it 'v ill take three hours baking. Cake it la Brie.*—Take some rich Brio cheese knead it with a pint and half of Hour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and a little salt; moisten it with five or six eggs beaten up ; when it is well kneaded, H