COD 181 COD pan you would keep in, lay a clean linen about two or three pounds weight, will be cloth over them, and pour clarified melted sufficiently boiled in a quarter of an hour butter over them, to keep them close from or twenty minutes after the water boils, the air. Prepare a cod for dressing in the following Cocks' Combs and Kidneys au blanc (Ra- . gout of).*—Having blanched the cocks’ combs and kidneys, put them into a sauce- pan with a little consomme, sauce tournee, mushrooms, previously dressed veal sweet- ! breads, fowls’ livers, blanched and sliced, i truffles also cut in slices, artichoke bottoms, and quenelles of fowl. Thicken the whole with yolks of eggs. Serve with a sippet and a little lemon or verjuice. Cocks’ Combs au Veloute*—Parboil your i cocks’ combs in a blanc, and having drained i them, put them into a stewpan with veloute or sauce tournee; let them boil gently for a |i quarter of an hour, thicken the sauce, and finish with a little butter and lemon juice. Cocks’ Combs and Kidneys au Veloute.*— Boil some cocks’ combs and kidneys in a r blanc, and then drain them; put some ve- i loute reduced with a little fowl jelly into a stewpan, throw in the cocks’ combs and kidneys, simmer them for about seven or . eight minutes, and finish it with a sippet and lemon juice, and serve it. COCOA Nut Sweetmeat.*—Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it carefully, and throw it into cold water; then grate it, and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to each pound of the cocoa nut) until quite thick; stir it frequently to prevent its burning-. Then pour it on a well buttered dish or : marble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you think proper. Another way*—Proceed as above, but do not boil the sugar so thick by a great deal; then stir into it whilst hot the yolks of six eggs; this must be served in jelly- glasses. COCOTTES.*—Take a numberof small cups, and put in each a small piece of butter, break a new laid egg into every cup ; sea- son them with pepper and salt; set them over hot ashes, and pass a salamander over the top. I COD.—A codfish should be firm aud white, the gills red, and the eye lively ; a fine fish is very thick about the neck ; if the flesh is at all flabby it is not good. II hose which come from the Dogger Bank are reckoned the best. Cod is in its prime during the months of October and Novem- ber, it the weather be cold ; from the latter end of March to May, cod is also very fine, the length of time it requires for boilino- depends on the size of the fish, which varies •rom one pound to twenty; a small fish, manner: Empty and wash it thoroughly, scrape off all the scales, cut open the belly, and wash and dry it well, rub a little salt iuside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. The simple way of dressing it is as follows: Tie up the head, and put it into a fish-kettle, with plenty of water and salt in it; boil it gently, and serve it with oyster sauce. Lay a napkin underthe fish, and garnish with slices of lemon, horse- radish, &c. Cod (Baked).*—Soak a fine piece of fresh cod in melted butter, with parsley and sweet herbs shred very fine; let it stand over the fire for some time, and then bake it. Let it be of a good colour. Another way*—Choose a fine large cod, clean it well, and open the under part to the bone, and put in a stuffing made with beef suet, parsley, sweet herbs shred fine, an egg, and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, and grated lemon peel ; put this inside the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered paper, and bake it; baste it well with melted butter. Cod au Court Bouillon*—Boil the cod gently in a fish kettle, with water, salt, vinegar, a glass of wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Serve it cold on a napkin. Cod en Dauphin*—Your cod being properly prepared, marinate it for a couple of hours in sweet oil, with salt, pepper, scallions, bay leaf, parsley, and garlic. Then pass an iron skewer through the eyes, the middle of the body, and bring it out at the tail, making it in the form of a dolphin ; place it in a baking-pan, baste it with the marinade, and bake it. When sufficiently done, take out the skewer, put it on a dish, and pour over it the following ragout: Boil up (separately) three carps’ roes, and some asparagus heads, and then put them into a stewpan with a bit of but- ter, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions; do them over the fire, and add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and the same of soup maigre. When the ragout is suffi- ciently done, thicken it with three yolks of eggs, and some cream. Cod with Herbs*—Prepare a cod, and lay it in salt and water, when it has been m an hour, place it in a table-dish, with sweet herbs ready coolcod, and butter; season with salt, popper, nutmeg, and spices in powder; moisten it with a bottle of white wine, baste it frequently with