PIG ' PIG 418 and take off the fat in the dish it was baked in, and there will he some good gravy at the bottom; put that to the veal gravy, with a little hit of butter, rolled in flour ; boil it up, and put it in a dish in which the pig has been laid, and put the brains with some sage into the belly. Some persons like a pig to be brought to table whole, in which case you are only to put what sauce you like into the dish. Pig (Barbicued).—Scald, &c. a pig of about fivo weeks old, tbe same as for roasting; make a stuffing with a few sage- leaves, the liver of the pig, and two an- chovies boned, washed, and cut extremely small; put them into a mortar, with some bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of butter, a very little Cayenne pepper, and half a pint of Madeira wine ; beat them to a paste, and sew it up in the pig; lay it at a good distance before a large brisk fire ; singe it well; put two bottles of Madeira wine into the dripping-pan, and keep basting it all the time it is roasting ; when half done, put two French rolls into the dripping-pan ; and if there is not wine enough in the dripping-pan, add more : when the pig is nearly done, take the rolls and sauce, and put them into a saucepan, with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon; take up the pig, send it to table with an apple in its mouth, and a roll on each side; then strain the sauce over it. Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weeks old, and stick it all over with blanched almonds, and baste it in the same manner with Madeira wine. Pic (Collared).—Take a fine young roasting pig, and as soon as it is kihe , dress off the hair, and draw it; wash it clean ; rip it open from one end to the other, and completely bone it; rub it all over with pepper and salt, a little cloves and mace beaten fine, some sage-leaves and sweet herbs, chopped fine ; then bind it up in a cloth. Fill the pot you mean to boil it in with soft water, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some peppercorns, cloves, mace, a handful of salt, and a pint of vinegar; when the liquor boils, put m the pig? and let it boil till tender ; take it up, and when almost cold, bind it over again; put it into an earthen pan, and pour the liquor that it was boiled in over t, and keep it covered ; when you want to use it, take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far as you want to cut it, am n n cut it in slices, and lay it m your dis . Garnish with parsley. Pig en Galantine.*—Well scald a pig, bone and extend it on a linen cloth ; then lay over it a good meat stuffing, seasoned according to taste; put over the stuffing, which should be laid on about the thickness of a crown, first a layer of ham, cut in thin slices, and then a layer of hard eggs ; cover these layers with a little forcemeat, roll up the pig, being careful not to dis- place the layers, and cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, wrapping the whole in a filtering cloth ; wind some packthread tight round it, and let it boil for three hours, in equal quantities of stock and white wine, adding salt and coarse pepper, some roots and onions, a large bunch of parsley, shalots, a clove of garlic, cloves, thyme, bay-leaves, and basil; when done, leave it to cool in the stock, and serve cold. You may add, if you think proper, a layer of truffles. Pig’s Harslet.— Wash and dry some livers, sweetbreads, and some fat and lean pieces of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin, to make them tender ; season with pepper, salt, and sage, and a little onion sbreded fine; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it tight with a needle and thread, and roast it by a jack, or by a string. Or serve in slices, with parsley, for a fry. . , Serve with a sauce of port wme ana gravy, and mustard, just boiled up, and put it into a dish. Pig dressed like House Land).—Take the fore-quarter of a pig, about six weeks old , skin and dress it as a fore-quarter of lamb; flour it, and sprinkle it over with a little salt, and send it to table nicely frothed. With mint-sauce or salad it will eat like lamb. When it comes to table, cut off the shoulder, and squeeze the juice ot a Seville orange over it. The hind-quarter is i ery good roasted in tbe same way. Pig in Jelly.—Take a pig, and cut it into quarters ; put it into a stewpan, with a pint of Rhenish wine, or Lisbon wine, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, the juice of four lemons, and a few cloves ; m it stew over a slow fire for two hours ; a.ter it has stewed this time, take it up, lay the pig in a dish, strain the liquor, and when it is cold skim off the fat, leaving the settling at the bottom; warm the je y again, and pour over the pig; serve l P cold in the jelly. , „ Pio in Jelly.—Having prepared a pi0 as if for roasting, put it into a br-.us.ng pam large enough to contain it without spoilm0