388 ox ox ■with a spoonful of olive oil, half a pint of white wine, and a little salt; fry them a nice colour, and garnish with fried parsley. Ox Palates au Gratin.* — Trim the palates carefully, and blanch them; when cold cut them into slices, and give them a few turns in a little butter, and two onions, then add a little ham (also cut in slices), some gravy, stock, cullis, and d bouquet garni; let these boil an hour, then slam it, put in a little mustard, and serve it on a oratin as follows : Make a mince of fowl fivers, to which add grated bacon, parsley, scallions, mushrooms (all shred small) salt, and pepper, mix these together with the volks of two eggs, and spread it over a dish, which place on hot ashes; as soon as the gratin is formed, drain off the fat, and put the palates on the gratin and SeOx Palates au Gratin* —■ Cut your palates (prepared as usual) into long thin slices, about two inches wide ; spread over them some farce cuile (see that arti- cle') - cut a calf s udder into slices, the size of the others, lay these on the farce with a little of the same spread on them also , roll them up, and lay them round a dish in which you have placed a layer of the farce ; when all are done, cover them with bacon, and put them in the oven for about half an hour ; then dram away the fat, pour an Italienne into the centre and serve. P Ox Palates (with Herbs)*-Cut the palates into pieces of the size of farthings, do the same with an equal quantity of calf s udder, have some herbs « papillotes (see that article), mix them with a small quantity of farce and quenelle, unite them with the yolks of two eggs; lay a little of this on a silver or other dish that will bear the fire, then place the palate and udder, alternately, all over the farce, of which put another layer in the form of a pyramid; cover the whole with raspings ami a little melted butter ; pour ajjflusS ot white wine over it, and set it on the fire ; To our the top with the salamander. Serve nitber with reduced Italienne or espagnole. o" r“»«. a ti, palates into pieces the size of farthings, wS put into a stewpun with a glass of white wine, mushrooms, parsley, all shred small, reduce the whole to a glaze, then add a spoonful of espagnole, and a e glaze. Serve very hot with croutons Ox Palates a la MarhlU.-Havuig well scalded the palates, peel, and cut each in two lengthwise ; put a thin slice ot ham Zi another of bacon, between every two pieces, tie them together, and put them into some broth with parsley and scallions, two cloves, salt, and pepper; when done, serve with consomme, and a little lemonjuice# Ox Palates a la Marmotte.— l ake two or three scalded ox palates, cut them and some pickled pork into slices; boil the latter till half done ; add the palates, with parsley, shalots, and a clove of gar- lic, all chopped small, some whole pepper, and a glass of white w’ine ; boil the whole together; when nearly done, put the meat into a dish for table, strew plenty of bread crumbs over, colour it in the oven, and serve it with any thick sauce. Ox Palates (in Moulds),-—Take a num- ber of small timbale moulds, in each of which put some veal caul; braise and cut the palates into thin slices, the size of the mould s ; make a good forcemeat with the trimmings of the palates and some fowl; put layers of this and the slices of palates, alternately, till each mould is nearly full, cover each with chopped 1 truffles, over which lay another slice of palate ; -wrap the caul over, and put them in an oven. When done, take them out, carefully wipe oft the fat, and serve them with any sauce you think proper. Ox Palates ( Paupiattes ). * — Prepare some ox palates and calf’s udder, as for gratin, only cutting the slices rather wider; when rolled up as therein directed, rub them all over with a sauce d atelet; then bread and egg them like croquettes, fry them of a nice colour, and serve with fried P‘Uo!t'Palates (Pickled).*—'Wash the pa- lates clean with salt and water; then let them boil in salt and water; skim them very clean ; let them simmer four or five hours, and season them with pepper, cloves, and mace ; when they are tender, cut them into pieces, and let them cool. Make a pickle with equal quantities of white wine and vinegar ; boil it, and put in the spice that was boiled with the palates; add six or seven bay leaves, and some fresh spice , when both are cold, put them together, and keep them for use. , . , Ox Palates d la Paulette.*-^ pJJ* being blanched, give them a few turn in some butter, with sweet herbs, shred P« tlien, ioto » •»«*?» put them into a sauccj...... sa]t quantity of flour ■a spoonfu1 o « ’ ^ and pepper ; let these boil till pretty reduced; just before it isservedaddt • three yolks of eggs, and some crea , little verjuice or vinegar.