SAU SAU 471 Sauce (Supreme).*—Put one ladleful of velouti, and four .of essence of fowl, into a saucepan, set it on tlie fire, and when reduced to half, put in a tea-spoonful of parsley, shred small, and scalded, a little fresh butter, half the juice of a lemon, and some pepper; place it on the fire, make it quite hot, hut not boiling; vannez or mill it well, and serve quickly. Sauce (Sweet). — Put some cinnamon into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover it; set it on the file, and when it has boiled up once or twice, add two spoonsful of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and two bay leaves ; give the whole one boil, and then strain it for table. Sauce Tournee. — Put three or four pieces of lean ham into a stewpan, with a little butter, and some champignons, set it on a moderate fire, stirring till the butter begins to look clear; then add some routr, put to it three table-spoonsful of strained consomme, stir it in, then add more, at different times, until you have as much as you require. Set it on the fire, and let it boil slowly, stirring constantly ; when reduced to the proper thickness (which is that of good melted butter), strain it through a tammy, to use when occasion requires. Sauce (Universal).—Take half a dozen split shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, basil, thyme, truffles, tarragon leaves, half an ounce of bruised mustard seed, some Seville orange peel, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, double the quantity of long pepper, and two ounces of salt ; put all these ingre- dients to infuse in the juice of a lemon, half a glass of verjuice, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, and a pint of white wine; put them into a jar, cover it as closely as possible, and set it on hot ashes for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time let it stand to settle, and when clear, pour it off carefully, strain, and bottle it. This infusion will keep a long time if tightly corked, and may be used with all kinds of meat or fish. It may also be added to other sauces. Sauce (While).*—Beat up a quarter of a pound of butter, and a tea-spoonful of flour; season with salt and pepper; when well worked up, add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and a little water. Set these on the fire, and stir till thick ; be careful not to let it boil: add a little cream. Sauce (White).—Boil a few bits or bones of chicken, or veal, in a little stock or water, with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a slice of lemon, a little celery, and a few peppercorns ; when you have about half a pint of liquor, strain it, add some good cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, pounded mace and salt; make it quite hot, stirring continually ; when done, flavour it with mushrooms, or lemon juice. Sauce (White Fish).— Simmer together an anchovy, a little horseradish, scraped, some mace, an onion, stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon peel, a glass of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water ; when properly reduced, strain it, and then add two spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour; set it on the fire again, and keep stirring tdl it boils. When ready to serve, put in a little ketchup, andjsome lemon juice. SAUR-BRAUTON.*—To a sirloin of beef of twenty pounds, take one table- spoonful of allspice, four dozen cloves, a lemon sliced, a clove of garlic, laurel and bay leaves, parsley, and sweet herbs, of each a small quantity. Stick the cloves into the meat, which lay in a deep pan, with the above articles over it, and just covered with vinegar. Let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight, turning it daily, and keeping the pan closely covered; two days before dressing the beef, lard, and then replace it in the pickle. Such a piece of beef will require at least eight hours roasting, :and should be done on a cradle spit, a good gravy made to baste it with, as the vinegar may make it too acid. 1 his pickle will be strong enough for a small leg of mutton, and if the vinegar be good, it ought also to serve for a hare. SAUR-KRAUT.*—Have ready a vine- gar, white wine, or brandy cask, about four inches from the bottom of winch put in u vent-peg. Take a number of the best white cabbages, strip off all the outside leaves, and slice the hearts transversely as thin ns possible, until you have as much as you require ; then lay over the bottom of the cask, osier or vine twigs, to the height of the peg; on these put alternate layers of the sliced cabbage, and salt (in the proportion of one pound of the latter to fifty of the former); let each layer of cabbages be at least three inches thick. When the cask is about two thirds full, put cabbage leaves all over; cover them with a cloth, and a round pieco of wood, which will exactly .fit th« inside of the cask, and place u stone or