150 CHE' CHE it well, until, on shaking the skimmer, after clipping it in the sugar, the latter, drops from it like icicles ; then you may put in four pounds of cherries, picked and stoned ; hoil them, ancl when the manna- lade flows readily, take it from the fire, and put it into pots. Cherry Marchpane* — Take three pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half of sugar, and a pound of cherries ; pound the almonds to a paste, and mix it with the sugar, boiled to petit boa Id; then haying stoned, well bruised, and squeezed out the juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir it well, place it on hot ashes, stirring con- stantly until the paste is properly done ; then finish it in the usual way, (see Marchpane.) Strawberries, raspberries, currants, or any other fruit may be used in the same way. CriEnniES (Massepain of).—Take the gtones from half a pound of ripe cherries, bruise the fruit, and then add to it a pound of spgar, and the same of poundecl sweet almonds; put them on the fire, and work them till quite dry. When this is quite .cold, pound it with the whites of three or four eggs and a little raw sugar. Put it on paper of whatever form you please, and bake in a moderate oven. Cherry Paste.-—Take two pounds of morella cherries, stone them, press out the -juice through a sieve (they must be boiled first), and put it into a skillet over the fire •to dry it a little, mix a pound of sugar boiled to grande plume with this, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon; when the paste is of a good consistence, put it into moulds, and dry it in a gentle .oven. Cherries preserved dry in Bunches.*— Ice up some fine equal-sized cherries in bunches, seven or eight in each, fasten them by the ends of the stalks, throw them into sugar boiled to soujjld. Let the cher- jies boil up in it fourteen or fifteen times, then skim ancl pour it into an earthen pan, .get it in a stove till the next day, when drain and lay out the cherries to dry. To •each pound ot fruit allow an equal eight of sugar. _ Cherries ‘preserved liquid* Stone and take the stalks from six pounds of cher- ries, ancl put them into an equal quantity of clarified sugar boiled to grande plume ; boil them up several times in a covered saucepan; skim, take them from the fire, ancl let them drain ; the next day boil the 'Sugar to grand per Id, ancl add to it a little currant juice, put in your fruit, and boil it again eight or ten times, covered as before: take it off, skim, and put it into pots. When the fruit is cold, cover it with currants jrambaisdes. Cherries preserved with the Leaves and Stalks green.—Dip the stalks and leaves in boiling hot vinegar, and then place them j| upright in a sieve to dry. Having boiled some double-refined sugar to a syrup, put i in cherries with the stalks and leaves pre- i pared as above, and scald them; take them. I out, and lay them again on a sieve, until the sugar be boiled to candy height; then 11 arrange them properly, and dry them like s | any other sweetmeats. _ | Cherry Pudding.—Make a paste with butter, or suet chopped small, rubbed into > flour, and moistened with water ; line a . basin (well buttered) with this, put in picked cherries and sugar, cover the top i with a crust, tie it in a cloth, and boil 1 it. Other fruit may be added. Some* boil fruit puddings in a cloth without a basin. Another way*—Make a plain bat ter r pudding, and stir in picked cherries and sugar, taking care not to break them..! The batter must be made thicker and with . more eggs, than for plain boiling, fie it in a cloth, and boil as any other pud- • ding. i Cherry Pudding, A>lglo-Fran$a!$.’, — - Pick two pounds of fine ripe cherries, and - mix them with a quarter of a pound of* picked red currants (having extracted the- seeds), and six ounces of powder sugar.- Make your pudding as directed in the re- cipe for apple pudding, with Muscadel' raisins. You may make use of raspberries instead of currants ; or mix red or white currants and raspberries. Cherry Ratafia *—Crush ten pounds of cherries, and put them into a jar with a quart of brandy ; cover the jar close, and infuse the cherries for five or six days; at the end of that time put the fruit into a cloth, and press the juice out through. Boil five pounds of tine currants with three pounds of sugar, and press out Use juice as you did that of the cherries ; nnx ‘the two juices, measure them, and for everv pint allow a pint of brandy. Adc a pound of the kernels of the cherry stones,- half a pound of coriander, a little mace, some cloves and cinnamon, all well ]*mna- ed, put them into a jar, and pour the li- quor over them ; cover it close, w,u 1 infuse for six weeks, alter which, pass whole through a jelly-bag, and bottle-it* cork it carefully.