FIS 353 FIS very small, a little nutmeg and salt; soak the scallops in this, and place them one bv one within the p/ite cliaud (see that article), pour over them the butter that remains, two bay leaves, and cover the whole with slices of bacon. Finish the pale according to rule, and bake it an hour and a quarter in a brisk oven. When done, garnish it with carp roes, crayfish tails, oysters, mushrooms, arti- choke bottoms and truffles, and a good espagnole or tomata sauce. Fish Pie.—Clean and cut fresh salmon, cod, turbot, soles, sturgeon, or haddocks, into moderate-sized pieces; then roll i them into a mixture made of parsley, thyme, and shalots, chopped fine, some ■ beaten spices, powder of mushrooms or ’ truffles, pepper, and salt; put them into 1 a deep dish with some light forcemeat round ; cover with puff paste; egg and ornament the top with leaves of paste, i bake it till the fish is perfectly done; i and a quarter of an hour before it is sent to table, put in some good strong cullis, ’ with a little Madeira added to it. Fish Pie.—Take any sort of fish you ■ please, either eel, pike, salmon, tench, i &c„ and scale it, and cut it into pieces; i then line a pie-dish with crust, and put 1 the fish into it, with a bunch of sweet ■ herbs, some salt, and bruised spices, and : a layer of butter at the top ; after this put . on the top, and let it bake for an hour and a half. When done, take oft’ the fat, v and put in a good vegetable ragout made in the following manner : Stir a little i flour with butter over the fire till it is of a (fine cinnamon colour; moisten with half a pint of white wine, some soup maigre or warm water, and add mushrooms, a j bunch of herbs, and a little salt, let the ; whole boil half an hour, and then add the isolt roes of carp, parboiled; let them stew a quarter of an hour, and then put the ragout into the pies. Any sort of 1 vegetable ragout may be made use of, in- 1 stead of the above in these pies, such as of truffles, mushrooms, morels, or heads of asparagus. Fisii Maigre Pie.—Bone and cut into pieces a carp; make it into forcemeat 'vith some of the roe, parsley, thyme, shalots chopped very fine, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, salt, a little pound- ed spice, half a pint of cream, four eggs, at>d the crumb of a French roll. Aftcr- "’ards take pieces of eel, salmon and skate, pass them with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a bit of butter. When they are cold, put some of the forcemeat at the bottom of a deep dish, and mix with the fish some stewed mushrooms, the very smallest onions, truffles and morels blanched, and the roe cut into pieces, and put them into the dish with more forcemeat round the top; then cover with puff paste, ornament with leaves of paste, egg it, and bake it. When it is to be served to table, cut a small hole in the centre of the top, and pour in some good cullis. Fish (Salt).—Salted fish requires soak- ing, according to the time it has been in salt; that which is hard and dry, requires two nights’ soaking, changing the water two or three times ; the intermediate time lay it on a stone floor ; Barreled Cod re- quires less soaking; and for the best Dogger Bank Split Fish, which has not been in salt more than a fortnight or three weeks, still less soaking will be necessary. Fisii Sauce.—Take some mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that drains from your fish. Put it into a saucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a spoonful of ketchup, and a glass of white wine. Thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. If you cannot procure cream, instead>c white wine you must use red. Fisii Sauce (to keep) a Year*—Take forty anchovies, chop them up, bones and all, put to them ten shalots cut small, a hand- ful of scraped horseradish, a quarter of ail ounce of mace, a quart of white wine, a pint of water, one lemon cut in slices, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a pint of red wine, twelve cloves, and twelve peppercorns. Boil the whole together till it is reduced to a quart; then strain it, put it into a bottle, and cork it close ; keep it in a cold dry place. One tea-spoonful will be sufficient for half a pound of butter. Warm the sauce first, and then put the butter in to melt, with a little flour. Fish Sauce without Butter.—Let a quar- ter ol a pint of vinegar, and half a pint of water (the-water must not be hard) simmer very gently, with an onion, half a handful of horseradish, four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper, these spices should be slightly bruised. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with a couple of anchovies, and set the whole to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten, the yolks of threo fresh eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when