190 COL CON but do not let them boil, or they will be bard; add forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs ; lay round little slices of bacon, notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. Collops a la Bechamelle.—Soak a slice of ham, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shulots, and half a bay leaf; sim- mer these on a slow fire, about a quarter of an hour; then add a spoonful of good cullis, as much cream, and a little flour and pepper ; reduce the liquor till quite thick, and strain it in a sieve ; cut the breasts of roasted poultry into small bits, put the meat into the sauce, with the yolk of one egg, and give them a few boilings together; cut also thin bits of paste, to what form you please, put this ragout be- tween two pieces, pinch all round to se- cure the sauce, and fry them of a fine brown colour. Collops a la Parisienne*—Roll out about a pound of brioche paste very thin, and lay on it at intervals, beginning at two inches from the edge, small portions of minced fowl or game ; moisten the paste round each portion lightly, turn the plain part over, and with a round paste-cutter cut out the collops, taking care that the minced meat is in the centre of each. Leave them for two hours on a well- floured tin, fry them, and when of the pro- per colour, drain them on a napkin, and serve them. Collops of Preserves.*—Roll out some puff paste very thin, wet it, and lay on it, at intervals, whatever preserves you think proper, roll your paste over, press the ends together, and lay them on a tin ; just before they are wanted, fry them lightly ; drain and sprinkle them with sugar ; glaze and serve them. Fresh fruits may be used also, first stew- ing the fruit. Collops a la Russe*—Break four oggs into a stewpnn, and mix with them two spoonsful of flour, then half a glass of good cream, a spoonful of warm butter, and a grain of salt; when these are well mixed togother, pour some of it into a large fryingpan, and fry it of a light co- lour on’ both sides ; then take it out, and fry more in the same way, like pancakes, until you have a dozen very thin; cut each in half, and trim them into oblong pieces all the same size : lay on each some que- nolle, minced fowl or game, as if for cro- quettes; wrap the fried batter round it, wetting the edges, that they may adhere properly, with a little of the batter, hav- ing reserved some for the purpose ; then have ready beaten six eggs and a little salt, mask them with bread crumbs, fry them of a good colour, and serve them quickly'. Collops (Scotch).—Cut veal cutlets (taken from the fillet) into small thin pieces, and fry' them in a little boiling Lard till of a light brown colour. Drain them dry, put them into a stewpun, add cullis, stewed mushrooms, some blanched truffles, morels, pieces of artichoke bottoms, some slices of throat sweetbreads, and egg balls. Let them simmer over a slow fire till tender, season to the palate, and serve them with rashers of broiled bacon round them. COLOURING for Jellies, Cahes, fyc. —For a beautiful red boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water very slowly', half an hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered, w'ith a little drop of water, or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, orj a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor, and squeezed. For green, pound spinach leaves, or beet leaves, express the juice, and boil in a tea- cupful in a saucepan of water, to take off the rawness. COLTSFOOT (Syrup of).—Take of coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, hyssop one ounce, liquorice root one ounce; boil them in two quarts of spring water till one fourth is consumed ; then strain it, and put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder sugar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, and boil it till it is nearlv as thick as honey. CONSERVES (Dried).—For all sorts of conserves, the sugar should be prepared to the ninth degree, according to the quan- tity wanted; they are all made much after the same manner, the only difference be- ing in the quantity of fruits proposed. Con- serves, are made with all sorts of sweetmeat marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked pretty dry over a slow fire ; use about half a poiind of the sugar thus prepared, to a quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marma- lade ; take the sugar off the fire to work them well together; warm the whole for a moment, and pour it into paper cases made for the purpose ; when it is cool it may be cut into cakes of what size yon please. Conserve of Four Fruits.*— 1 ake straw- berries, currants, cherries, and raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, and three