MUT MUT 365 and length; put a rump on each piece of bread, and over it grated Parmesan cheese; and upon the whole a little mustard, butter, and cullis, mixed together ; strew at the . top some fine bread crumbs. Bake the rumps till tender, and serve them in a little consommd thickened with the yolks of two eggs and a gill of cream. Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.—Boil half a dozen rumps, then stew them in some mutton gravy, more than will cover them ; let them stew gently for half an hour, then take them up and let them stand to cool; put into the gravy a quarter of a pound of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace ; let it boil till the rice is very thick ; take the rumps, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg well beat up, and then roll them in bread crumbs, a little pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, lemon peel grated, and a very little thyme ; fry them in butter till they are of a nice brown. Whilst the rumps are stewing, lard some kidneys, and put them in a Dutch oven to roast. When the rumps are fried, drain them; pour the fat out of the fryingpan, and put in the rice; stir it all together round the pan, and then lay the rice in a dish ; lay the rumps round upon the rice, the nar- row ends to meet in the middle ; boil four eggs hard, cut them in quarters, and lay the kidneys and hard eggs upon the rice between the rumps. Mutton Rumps (Marinaded').—Clean and cut the rumps into equal lengths, and lay them in a pan in the marinade liquor for one night, then pass them in butter till nearly done; lay them on a dish to cool, wash them over with the yolk of egg, and strew them over with bread crumbs. Fry them gently in boiling lard till done, and of a nice colour. Drain them dry, and serve them up with a very good seasoned cullis sauce, with ketchup in it. Mutton {Saddle of) baked.* — Prepare and dress a saddle of mutton, in every respect as for a remove (see that article) ; when cold, take oft the skin, trim and sea- son it with pepper and salt; brush it all over with melted butter, bread it, and then let it cool; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin, break four eggs on it, I add pepper and salt; beat them together- well, and wash the saddle over with it completely, and cover it well with the bread ; put the saddle on a baking-tin, and put it in the oven, which must not be too hot, or it will spoil the colour of tire mutton. Mutton (Loin of) Braised*—Take the half of a saddle of mutton, and bone it, sea- son the inner part with salt and pepper, roll it up to the form of a long square, tie it up and braise it for two hours and a half; when ready for table, raise the skin and glaze it; put in the dish any purde or sauce you please. Mutton (Saddle of) Breaded a. I’An- glaise*—Take a saddle of mutton and braise it, and when done, season with pepper and salt, dip it in melted butter and bread it, then let it cool. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, as soon as it is melted, mix with it three eggs and a little salt; rub the saddle completely with this, roll it well in bread crumbs, give it a good form, and about three quar- ters of an hour before dinner broil it slowly, colour the top with a salaman- der. Serve the saddle with a clear gravy. Mutton (Saddle of) as a Remove.*— Take a whole saddle of mutton, let it be fat and well covered with skin ; bone the ribs to the spine, season the udder part with pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; fill each side with the meat from a leg of mutton, roll it in, taking care to make both the same size ; tie it up, and braise it, adding the ribs and leg-bone, for five hours; then drain and untie it, strip all the skin from the top, and either glaze or cover it with shred parsley : serve it with a clear gravy, and garnish your dish with glazed turnips, onions, or carrots. Mutton Sausages.—Take a pound of the rarest part of a leg of mutton which has been either roasted or boiled; chop it very fine, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six ounces of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. When thoroughly mixed, put all into a little pot, and use it by rolling it into little balls, or of a sausage shape, and fry them. A little shalot, or garlic, is a great improvement. Mutton (Shoulder of) roasted.—Serve with onion sauce. You may, if you choose, broil the blade bone. Mutton (Shoulder of) baked* Lard a shoulder of mutton with streaked ba- con, put it into an earthen pan propor- tioned to the sizo of the joint of meat, with two or three sliced onions, a parsnip and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two cloves, half a bay leaf and some basil, add