410 PET PET should be repeated till tlie required de- gree of brightness is obtained, the liquor being each time drawn off, on the second or third day, from its precipitated lees. About an ounce and a half, or two ounces, of isinglass, are generally put into a cask of a hundred and ten gallons, at once; were its mode of action purely mechani- cal, there could be no objection to a larger quantity; but it has also a chemical action on the liquor. It combines with, and car- ries down, the tanning principle, and hence, during the process of fining, the liquor is deprived of a large portion of its astringency. This substance is most rea- dily diffused, in liquors, by boiling ; but, by this it is dissolved, and converted into glue, and its organization, on which alone its powers of fining depend, is totally de- stroyed . But, when perry can be made suffi- ciently bright without it, it is better not to use tire isinglass; as the liquor is ren- dered extremely agreeable to the eye by it, but is thought to become more thin and acid by its action. In the after-management of perry, the method is the same as that of cyder, but it does not bear situations where it is exposed to much change of temperature so well, and its future merit cannot be so well judged of by its present state. In the bottle it almost always retains its good qualities,' and in that situation it is best to be put, if it remains sound and perfect, at the conclusion of the first and succeed- ing summer. Perry Vinegar, as made in Holland * •—The pears which fall from the trees are picked up, cut into slices, and put into casks; water is poured over them, and they are left exposed to the sun, and yeast is added to hasten the fermentation. When the vinegar is made, strain, aud let it rest some days; after which, a deposit is formed; draw off the vinegar carefully, and bottle it. PERSIC A.*—Cut about one hundred peach leaves, put them into a wide- mouthed bottle, pour on them a quart of the best brandy, cork it close; in three weeks strain it off, and put to it an equal quantity of capillaire. It is good in cus- tards, puddings, and as a liqueur. Petit Choux, or Royal Paste.— (Sea Paste Royal), aud having made it ns there directed, when it is cold, form the choux, about half the size of a walnut, on a baking sheet, by dropping it off a spoon in com- pact drops a little distance from each other; brush them over with egg and a little milk ; bake in a moderate oven, and do not let in the air while they are rising; some- times glaze them with powder sugar; de- tach them from the baking tin with a knife; make an incision in them, and introduce whatever sweetmeats you think proper. With this paste a great variety of dishes may be made according to fancy. Petits Putts (Cases of).—Having made a sufficient quantity of puff paste, and as- certained, by trying it, that it is rolled enough and not too much; roll it out to about the thickness of one-fifth of an inch, dip a cutter (round or oval, plain or fluted), into boiling water in order to de- tach the paste immediately from the cut- ter, and then proceed to cut out as many pieces as wanted, taking care between each one to dip the cutter in water; place them an inch apart; stamp them even on the top with a cutter, about three sizes less than the former one; lightly dorez and bake them in a brisk oven, of a clear light brown colour; when done, gently with a skewer raise the piece marked out with the smaller cutter, take all the inside out; put them on paper and keep hot till dinner time; instead of using the small pieces taken from the tops, you mat' have some pieces cut out from the puff paste much thinner than the pates, with a larger cutter than you marked the tops with; dorez and bake them, and slightly cut the bottoms off; when your pates are filled place these tops on. These cases will do for a great variety of things. Petits Patds (Hot).*—Roll out about a pound of puff paste to a proper thick- ness, which cut into pieces, with a plain round paste cutter, two inches in diame- ter; place half the number of these pieces on a baking tin (slightly wetted), about half an inch apart; moisten each ot them a little, and having laid a small bit of godi- veau on every one, cover them with the remainder of the paste, press the edges together, dorez, and bake them in a brisk oven, of a clear brown. Petit Gateaux d la Heine.—Proceed in the same manner to make the paste as tor petit choux, except that you must substitute of milk and cream equal quantities instead ot water, also adding a glass of brandy ant nutmeg; line some tart pans with putt paste, puta little jam in each, and over t la a good spoonful of the above paste; w en baked enough, powder some sugar oi er them, glaze with a salamander, and serve very hot. Yon may, if you like, onut t e jam.