CAR 128 CAR eggs, some cream, and a little chopped parsley. Carp Roes fried.—Scald them as usual ; and when they are well drained, marinate about an hour with lemon juice and a little salt; drain and flour them to fry in a very hot frilure, to give them a good brown colour ; drain upon a sieve, or with a cloth ; squeeze an orange over, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Caup Roes (Petits-pdtds maigres of).*— Blanch a fine carp roe in salt and water, cut it in small pieces, about three quarters of an inch square ; place one of these upon each petit-pate, which has been previously filled with a farce fine of carp. Finish them as usual (see Petits-pdtes), and serve them with bechamelle maigre. Carp Roes (Pie of).*—Make & farce as follows : Take a pound of pike or carp, and pound it well; then put with it a quarter of a pound of panada, and pound it again; add a pound and a half of fresh butter, grated bacon or calf’s udder: when all is well mixed, add the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of fine herbs, eight drachms of spiced salt, and a spoonful of veloute, and a quarter of a pound of pounded an- chovies. Take carp roes, and a very fine turbot, cut them in pieces. Slightly warm two pounds of fresh butter with two spoonsful of shalots, four of parsley, cham- pignons and truffles, shred fine. Prepare your pie as usual; garnish the bottom and sides with the farce; lay in some of the turbot; season them with spiced salt, and mask them with a spoonful of butter and sweet herbs, and a little of the farce; then lay the carp roes, seasoned and masked as above ; then the turbot, and so on, till the dish is filled; put in whatever spice and farce may remain, and over the whole lay slices of bacon; cover the pie, and bake it for three hours and a half. When done, remove the top, and pour in melted butter and sweet herbs. Caup Roes (Ragout of).—Soak slices of ham and veal about half an hour, on a slow fire ; then add a good bit of butter, with mushrooms, two cloves, a fagot of sweet herbs, a little basil, a glass of white wine, a little veal gravy and cullis; boil these till the veal is (lone, skim the li- quor, and take out the veal and ham; scald the roes of carp in hot water, and then boil them in this cullis about a quarter of an hour, skimming it well (it ought to bo as thick as very good cream) ; season it with pepper, salt, and a lemon squeezed; when ready, serve it as an entremet. You may make it in maigre, but in tliat case you must have fish for the cullis, instead of ham and veal. CARRAWAY Cake.—Dry a quarter of a peck of fine flour in an oven; rub a pound and a half of fresh butter in it, till it is crumbled so small that none of it is to be seen; then take six spoonsful of rose water, half a pint of canary, half a pint of cream, and three quarters of a pint of new ale yeast, and the whites of two, and yolks of four eggs; mix all these well together, let it lie before the fire, and when you make it up put in a pound and a half of Naples biscuits, andr' three quarters of a pound of carraway comfits. Bake it. Carraway Cakes.—To a pound of flour, add a pound of fresh butter, eight spoons- ful of good yeast, four spoonsful of rose water, the yolks of three eggs, as many carraways as you please, four ounces of sugar, and some ambergris; knead all into a paste, make it up into any form you please, and when they come out of the oven, strew powder sugar. Carraway Comfits.—Take some fine carraway seeds, sift all the dust from them, and have a large copper preserving- pan, about two feet wide, and with two handles and two pieces of iron made as a ring on each side ; then you must have a pulley fixed to the beam, and a cord with a hook to each end, so as to fix it at each side of the pan to let it sling; then have some fine starch as white as you can get, and just soften it, boil some syrup a quar- ter of an hour, and mix it with the starch ; take some gum arabic, put it into some water, then put that into another pan, and make it just warm ; have an iron pot with charcoal fire under the large pan, but not too hot, only just to keep the pan warm ; have a large tub to put your pot ot fire at bottom, and your large pan must be on the top; put the carraway seeds into your pan; add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them with your hands until you find they are all dry, then put a ladleful of starch and syrup, and do the same over your pan of fire, until you find they are all dry; put the gum only three or four times to them at first, then die starch and sugar, but boil your syrup more as you find they come to coat with it, and not so much starch; when you have dried them seven or eight times, put them into your sieve; put them into the stove, do them the next day, and so, successively, for six or seven days.