394 PAR PAN finished frying, leave a table-spoonful of the batter in the stewpan, to which add a little pounded ratafia, sugar, orange-flower, and the yolk of an egg, which mix up with the cream; set it on the fire, and when it boils, put it in a boat for sauce to the pancakes. Pancakes a. Tltalienne.— Make your pancakes the same as pancakes a la Fran- fake, and when fried, lay them open on a clean dresser, spread them over with an Italienne cream, roll them up, and lay them in order on your dish ; be particular to put the brown side outwards. PANNEQUETS Glacis.*—Put into a pan two ounces of sifted flour, four of pow- der-sugar, the same of bitter macaroons, and a spoonful of dried orange-flowers; break up all these articles, and mix with them the yolks of ten eggs, four large glasses of double cream, and a pinch of salt. Butter the bottom of a frying-pan lightly with some warm clarified butter, then put in it a spoonful of the above pre- paration, spread it over the pan to make the paste as thin as possible; when the pannequet becomes lightly coloured, turn it over carefully, and do the other side; then put it on a tin plate, spread a little apricot marmalade over, and having strewed crushed macaroons on that, roll up the pannequet till about an inch in diameter; in the mean time put a second spoonful of your preparation into the pan, and pro- ceed in the above manner, garnishing one pannequet whilst another is cooking, taking care, however, to set the pan over a gentle lire. When all are done, cut the pannequets three inches in length, glaze, and dish them en couronne. Pannequets a la Royale.* — Prepare your pannequets the same as pannequets glacis, filling them with chocolate creme pAtissiere, instead of apricot marmalade. Make the last pannequet much larger than the rest, and do not roll it, but when the others are dished en couronne, place the re- served pannequet over them (cutting out the middle ; being very thin, it takes the form of the couronne, and wash its surface with the white of an egg whipped firm, and mixed with two spoonsful of powder sugar, then strew over some crushed sugar, put it into a gentle oven, and make of a nice colour. Any other cream pdtissicre is equally good. The pannequets may also be made thus : when taken out of the pan, place them on a layer of paste, about six inches in diameter j put on each pannequet some apricot marmalade, with crushed maca- roons strewed over, and when all are done, meringuez the upper one. Ojy as follows : put six of these panne- quets one on another, then, with a paste- cutter of two inches and a half diameter, cut them out, dip them in beaten eggs, and afterwards in bread-crumbs; repeat this operation, and then having fried them of a nice colour, glaze, and serve them. PARFAIT Amour.* — Take four very fine fresh cedrats, pare them very thin, and infuse them with half an ounce of fine cinnamon, and four ounces of cori- ander, in three gallons of strong brandy, and a quart of water, for a week or ten days, when distil it in the bain-marie; this quantity of brandy, if good, will yield two gallons and half a pint of spirit. Dis- solve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of river water, colour it with cochineal, then add it to the spirit, filter, and bottle it. Parfait Amour, Frontage Bavarois.*—• Pare the rinds of two lemons and a small cedrat as thin as possible, infuse them with six bruised cloves, and half a pound of powder sugar, in two glasses of boiling milk; in an hour’s time strain it otf, and add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a little infusion of cochineal, to make the fromage of a rose colour; set it, as usual, on ice, mix the cream with it as soon as it begins to thicken, and finish as directed, (See Fromage Bavarois.) Paiifait Amour (Transparent Jelly of).* I —Pare the rind of two lemons and a cedrat as thin as possible, and infuse it with half a dozen cloves (bruised) in a boiling svrup made with twelve drachms of sugar ; add a little cochineal to make it of a delicate rose colour. When cold, mix with the infusion half a glass of kirschenwasser, filter, and having put the ounce of isinglass , to it, finish as directed. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) Parfait Amour Soufle (Franfais of).*— Rub upon a pound of lump sugar the testes of two lemons, and two large cedrats, scraping oft' the surface as it becomes co- loured ; infuse this sugar in nine glasses of boiling hot milk, with the addition of a dozen cloves, for half an hour; strain the infusion through a napkiu, mix it with the usual ingredients, and finish as directed, (See Souffle Francois.) PARSLEY (Fried).—Pick some parsley (but not very fine), wash it well, and put in on a sieve to drain; after the fish, cro- quettes, &c., are fried, while the fat is