KAV JUM 310 JOHN DOREY (Boiled).—Set it over the fire in cold spring water; treat it ex- actly the same as turbot, and serve it with lobster sauce in a boat. John Dorey a la Creme.—Rub your fish over with lemon, cover it with paper, and put it into a kettle, with half milk and half water, a bit of butter, salt, and a le- mon squeezed in; set it on the fire, and let it simmer gently till done ; take it up, and drain it from the liquor, lay it on a dish, and pour a good cream sauce all over it. It will be much improved by mushrooms. JONQUILS (Candy of)*—These flow- ers are candied precisely in the same way as the jessamine. Jonquils (Whole).*—Take some double jonquils, cut the stalks about a quarter of an inch from the flowers; give them one boil in some sugar (liquid); then remove them from the fire, and let them stand a quarter of an hour ; drain them well, and put them into some sifted sugar, working them about, and taking care that all the leaves may imbibe an equal quantity of sugar, and the form of the flower pre- served, which may be done by shaking each, and blowing away the superfluous sugar ; lay white paper on a sieve, and arrange the flowers on it one by one, dry them in a stove; keep them in boxes in a dry place. These flowers may also be candied as above ; in which case, the moulds should Lave a sort of grating at the top for the flowers: place a weight on to keep them immersed in the sugar. JULIENNE.*—This soup is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, sorrel and chervil; the roots are cut in thin slips, about an inch long, the onions are halved and then sliced; the lettuce and sorrel chopped small; toss up the roots in a little butter, when they are done, add the lettuces, &c., moisten them ■with broth, and boil the whole over a slow fire for an hour or more, if necessary; pre- pare some bread in the usual wray, and pour the julienne over it. JUMBLES.—Mix one pound of fine flour with one pound of fine powder sugar, make them into a light paste with whites of eggs well beaten; add half a pint of cream, half a pound of fresh butter, melted, and a pound of blanched almonds, pounded; knead them all together, thoroughly, with a little rose-water, and cutout the jumbles into whatever forms you think proper; and either bake them in a gentle oven, or fry them in fresh butter serve them in a dish, melt fresh butter with a spoonful of mountain, and strew fine sugar over the dish. JUNIPER BERRIES (Ices of).—In- fuse some juniper berries in warm water, or take about a handful of the berries, and boil them a moment with a pint of water, , , half a pound of sugar, and a bit of cinna- i mon, and sift them through a sieve with ! expression, and finish the same as all others. Juniper (Ratafia of). — Infuse two ounces of ripe juniper berries in two pints of brandy, addingbalf an ounce ofcinnamon, , J three cloves, a little aniseed and coriander seed ; add half a pound of sugar to each i; pint of brandy, having previously boiled it in a very little water. Let the whole in- fuse in a jar for six weeks, then strain, and bottle it. Juniper (Ratafa of).*'—Take three ’ ounces of juniper berries, anise, coriander, cinnamon, and cloves, of each eighteen i grains ; bruise all these ingredients, and ! infuse them for a month in three pints of brandy ; then strain it, add three quar- • ters of a pound of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, stir them together. . pass the whole through a jelly-bag, and .: bottle it; keep it well corked. Juniper (Ratafaof).—Take three pints of ratafia ; put a quart of brandy into a jar, with a handful of juniper brries, and one l pound and a half of sugar, boiled in a quart :; of water, and well skimmed ; stop the jar up close, and set it for about five weeks in a warm place ; then strain it through a filtering cloth, and, when it is quite clear, . put it into bottles, taking care to cork them I > well. The ratafia will be all the better for : keeping. JUNKET (Devonshire).—Warm some milk, and put it into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then put some scalded cream, .] sugar, and cinnamon, on the top, without breaking the curd. K KA VIA.*—Take the hard roes of se- veral sturgeon, and lay them in a tub of water; take away all the fibres as you . would from a calf’s brains, then, with a whisk, beat the roes in the water, shaking oft'from the whisk whatever fibres may be adhering to it; then lay the roes on sieves for a short time ; after which put t cm into fresh water again ; and continue whip them, and change the water, unti i roses are perfectly cleansed and free lion*