IJAR 297 IIAR whole into a dish, squeeze lemon juice over, and serve it very hot. Hare Pie.—Cut a hare in pieces, season it with pepper, salt, nutmegs, and mace ; put it into a jug with half a pound of but- ter, cover it close, and set it in a large saucepan of boiling water. In the mean time make a forcemeat with a quarter of a pound of scraped bacon, two onions, a glass of red wine, the crumb of a small loaf, a little sweet marjoram, the liver minced small; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole together with the yolks of three eggs ; make a raised crust, at the bottom of which lay some of the forcemeat, then some of the hare; put force- meat on them, and so on till your hare is all in; add the gravy from the bare, cover the pie, and bake it for an hour and a half. Hare (Potted).*—Skin and wash a hare perfectly clean; cut in pieces, and put i them into a jar with butter, pepper, salt, mace, and herbs, if you choose ; tie it over and set it in an oven with the bread. When done, take the meat from the bones, and pound it with the fat which comes from the gravy, to a fine paste. Press it down closely in pots, and cover it with clarified butter. Hare (Ragout of).—Skin and take all the bones from a hare that has hung some days (leave the head untouched); lay it open on the table ; strew pepper and salt, and spread a good forcemeat over ; roll it np close to the head, tie it up, and stew it in a clear braise, which must be reduced to half the quantity ; then add half a bottle of port, and stew till the hare is done; take it out, and put to the liquor a little plain sauce; reduce the whole to a proper consist- ence add truffles, morels, mushrooms, I cocks combs, fat livers, forcemeat balls, and I artichoke bottoms; a little lemon juice may be added; serve the hare with this sauce." Hare (Roasted).—The hare being skin- 1 ned, cleaned, and trussed, make a o-ood stuffing as follows : A quarter of a pound of beet suet, shred fine, some bread crumbs, the liver boiled and chopped small, sweet i herbs, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg ; mix these together well, bind them with an e™ ! Put th;s into the hare, tie it up, and fasted tt to the spit; put a quart of milk into the dnppmg, and baste the Imre with it. When nearly done, flour the hare well, and baste with butter to froth it. A small hare takes an hour to roast. Another way.—When the hare is trussed and stuffed, cover it with thin slices of oacon, tie them on, baste it with dripping. Some persons prefer stale beer; likewise add an anchovy, a glass of red wine, and another egg, to the stuffing. Serve the hare with gravy and melted butter. TIare, (Roasted).—Cut the skin from a hare that has been well soaked; put it on the spit and rub it well with Madeira, pricking it in various places that it may imbibe plenty of wine ; cover it entirely with a paste, and roast it. When done, take awmy the paste, rub it quickly over with egg, sprinkle bread crumbs, and baste it gently with butter (still keeping it turning before the fire) until a crust is formed over it and it is of a nice brown colour; dish it over some espagnole with Madeira wine boiled in it; two or tbree cloves may be stuck into the knuckles if you think proper. Hare (to Roast) in the Skin.—Clean the inside of the hare in the usual way; stuff and roast it. When nearly done, flay off the skin, strew bread crumbs, cinnamon pounded, and flour over it pretty thick, froth it well, make a sauce with claret, vi- negar, ginger, cinnamon, barberries, and a little sugar; pour it into a dish, lay the hare on it, garnish with lemon and parsley, and serve it. Hare en Saiamis.—Take a cold roasted hare, chop it into small pieces; cut a large onion into dice, and fry it of a good colour in butter, with a bay leaf; add about two spoonsful of flour, and when it is well mixed with the butter, put in a quart of gravy, set it on the fire, and keep stirring until it boils ; then put in the hare, set the saucepan by the side of the fire to simmer, in an hour add half a pint of port, and simmer it for another half hour. When done, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and a small quantity of Cay- enne, and serve it. Hark au Sang *—-Skin and parboil a hare; then take off the skin, cut off' all the meat, and mince it very small; cut. some pork leaf into dice, slice some onions, mix these together, and toss them up over the fire; when the leaf begins to melt, pour on it a pint of pig’s, lamb’s, or calf’s blood ; put in the minced hare, set. them on the fire, and when the whole is of a tolerable consistence, place two cauls open on the table, lay a large slice of bacon on it, put in the hare, &c., cover it. with another large slice of bacon, gathor up the cauls, and form the mass as near ns possible to the resemblance of a hare ; tie it up and bake it. W bon done, clear away the fat, and serve it.