271 GAR GAM or four partridges or young wild rabbits, two carrots, three or four onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a little tliymo, and ball a bottle of white wine; reduce all to a jelly, and then moisten it with essence of game, or if you have none, with con- somme. Set it on a gentle fire till the game is done, then strain it through a napkin, and stir into it six or eight spoonsful of es]iagnole, or any other sauce which is con- venient ; reduce, and then strain it again, and put it into a stewpan, in the bain-marie. Game (Petits Ptiles of) .*—Make some petits pules with godiueau, as directed (see petits pates of gravy) ; when baked, take out the godiveau, and put in its place the ' following preparation : lake some mush- i rooms, parsley, a clove of garlic, scallions, ( two cloves, and a piece of butter, give . them a few turns in a stewpan, and then add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, veal i blond, salt, and pepper; stew them gently, | till the mushrooms are done, when put in I some cold roasted game, cut into dice, take out the parsley, and beat up the whole. | Serve the petits pates with Seville orange juice. J Game (Pottage of').*—Take the large I fillets from six partridges, and the most j fleshy parts of a young wild rabbit, set I them aside, and make the remainder into ■ a consomme with two or three pounds of j shin of beef, and the usual vegetables and seasoning; then having taken out all the j membranes, &c. from the rabbit and par- ! tridges, which were set aside, pound and ! rub them through a sieve. Make a panada with bread crumbs, a little consomme, and I the yolks of two eggs; let it thicken and ■ gratinez, stirring it constantly ; mix the 5 pounded game with an equal quantity of } Panada, and a small piece of fresh butter, ' or ready-dressed calfs udder; add salt, : pepper, grated nutmeg, truffles, or mush- ' rooms; pound the whole with two more yolks of eggs and one white, beaten to a t snow ; make this into balls, and lay them j on a flat plate, that they will easily slide J off into the boiling consomme, which must be well skimmed; when the balls are sufficiently done, pour the whole into the soup tureen and serve it. Game Pudding.*—Trim and truss a suf- ficient quantity of small birds, sucli as i quails, larks, thrushes, &c., and fry them hghtly in hutter, with a handful of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and any other season- lng you please; then make a thick, stiff Paste in which put the game, close paste round it, tie it in a cloth, and put it in a arge saucepan of boiling water; when it has boiled an hour, take it from the cloth, open the crust, and pour in some good cullis, or espagnole, close it again, and then serve it hot. Game (Puree of ).*—Pound the meat of any sort of game you think proper, with a little panada, and moisten it with con- somme. Break the bones, and boil them in some good broth, which add to the pared, and a small piece of butter ; boil all to- gether a few minutes, and then serve it poured over bread fried. Game Soup*—Put into a moderate-sized saucepan three pounds of beef steaks, four old partridges, a knuckle of veal, a phea- sant, carrots, onions, four heads of celery, three cloves, and a bunch of fennel; while it is doing, take three cold roasted par- tridges, and pound them in a mortar, with a piece of crumb of bread, about three times as big as an egg, and previously soaked in broth; moisten the partridges also with broth, and when sufficiently pounded, pass it through a sieve; put to the puree some of the broth, and set it on a gentle fire for some time, taking care that it does not boil. Dip your bread in the usual manner in the soup (made as directed above), and serve. GARBURE d la Bearnoise.*—Blanch four cabbages and a dozen lettuces, put them into a braising-pan, with a piece of streaked bacon, an equal quantity of ham, previously soaked, a sausage without gar- lic, and the legs of a goose, some broth without salt, a bunch of parsley, some roots, and two onions, a clove stuck in each; let these stand over the fire till thoroughly done, then drain the meat and vegetables separately; strain the liquor, skim, and clarify it; take some rye bread, cut the crumb of it into very thin slices • then have ready a deep dish that will bear the fire, and lay the cabbages, lettuce, bacon and bread dipped in the broth, round the inside of the dish, leaving a space or kind of well in the centre, which fill up with a puree of green pease, the ham, and the legs of goose ; cut the sausage into slices, and place them round the edges. 1 ut the dish over a stove that it may gra- tinez. Serve it with the clarified broth in another dish. Gauiiuue ait Hamean de Chantilly * But three pounds of veal cutlets, a knuckle of veal, two partridges ; and two pigeons, Jnto a saucepan; tie these up, that they may not fall to pieces in cooking ; fill the saucepan with good stock, or consomme, and add carrots, turnips, onions, celery leeks, and two cloves. When the meat is