APP APP put apricot marmalade in the place of the cores), and then add the remainder of the apple marmalade, talcing care not to cover the apples with it. Finish as above. At the instant of serving itmask it with apple jelly, apricot or quince marmalade, cherry juice or verjuice. Garnish the top of each apple with a cherry or verjuiee-berry. Serve this hot or cold. Apple Dumplings.*■—Choose six or eight good-sized baking apples, pare and core them, roll out some good paste, divide it into as many pieces as you have apples; roll and cut two rounds from each, put an apple on one piece and put the other over; join the edges neatly, tie them in cloths, and boil them. Apple Dumplings (baked).—Make them in the same way, but instead of tying them in cloths, lay them in a buttered dish and hake them. You may also add sugar, gTated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and ginger. Apples (dried or baked, or tapees). Choose the clearest of baking apples, prick them rather deep with a pointed knife in several places, and put them in a moderate oven upon a baking-plate ; when half done squeeze them pretty flat with the hands, strew them on both sides with powder sugar, and put them again into a soaking oven, with some more sugar over thenn Keep them in a dry place. Apples Festooned, or en Farbalat.—Peel some golden pippins, core them whole, and stew them to three parts with sugar and a little water; make the syrup prettv rich to clog to the apples; wrap them round with a thin paste, cut with a paste- cutter, and make knots or flowers with the same paste to put on the top of the apples ; rasp some sugar over, and bake a very short time. ^ Apples (a Floating Island of).—Bake or scald eight or nine large apples: when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, ^1S UP WIth fine sugar; put to it the whites of four or five eggs Lt have witl, . Uttle role"5.,“* it a lmle at a tnne) anJ beat it tm’ u jg jelly.’ U °n a rich custw'd or on beivT f°oL~^ew aPPles as for goose- berry fool and then pulp them, prepare the milk, &c. and mix as before. 1 1 Apples a la Frangipane.—Peel and core a dozen apples, slice them into a deen dish, over which shake some powder sugar, tlunly spread it over with apricot ‘overtW Vei7thm slices °f fresh butter r that, mix an ounce of potatoc flour with a pint of cream, a small bit of butter, nnd sugar to sweeten it; stir it over the fire till it begins to boil, then lay it over the apples, and bake in a moderate oven. Apple Froze.—Cut apples into thick slices, and fry them of a clear light brown ; take them from the pan, and lay them to dram ; they may be pared or not; then make a batter. Take five eggs, leaving ■out two whites, beat them up with cream or flour, and a little white wine, make it of the consistence of pancake batter; pour in a little melted butter, mixed with nut- meg and sugar. Let the batter be hot and drop in the fritters, laying on every one a slice of apple, and then a spoonful of batter on each. Fry them of a pale brown, when taken up, strew double-re- fined sugar all over them. Apple Fritters.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs, the whites of four, well together, strain them into a pan; then take a quart of cream, make it moderately hot, and •add two glasses of sack, three quarters of a pint of ale, and mix them well toge- ther. When it is cool, put to it the e<°rS beating it well together, then add nut- meg and ginger grated, salt and flour at pleasure. The batter should be pretty thick ; then put in sliced apples, or scraped pippins, and fry them quick in butter. Apple Fritters.*—Pare, core, and' cut y°ur apples into thick slices, soak them tor two or three hours in brandy, su°-ar green lemon peel, and orange-flower wa- ter; when they have thoroughly imbibed the flavour of these ingredients, drain, and put them into a cloth well sprinkled with flour, and shake them so that the flour may adhere all over them ; fry them of a good colour, glaze with sugar and a hot sala- niander. Apple Fritters.* — Having prepared your apples as above, dip them into a bat- ter made with four eggs, a little milk, and the remains of what the apples were soaked m ; keep it very thick, so that it may ad- here to them ; fry in plenty of good hot bird, to a good colour, and glaze with sugar and a hot salamander. Apple Fritters d la Dauphine.*—Turn twelve small apples, cut them into halves, and boil them in syrup, then leave them to cool. When they are cold, make an lx remely thin crust with brioche paste. Make a fritter for each half apple, then vy them and finish the same as Fritters <i la Dauphine. Pears cut into quarters, are made in the same manner as the above. c 2