ANG 13 oil, vinegar, whole pepper, parsley, scal- lion, and shalots, cut up together. Then cut the anchovies into thin slices, and lay them on the toast. ANDAYE Brandy.*—An ounce of bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised co- riander seed, two ounces of powdered Florence iris, the zestes of two oranges; put them with three quarts of distilled brandy into the alembic bain-marie; dis- solve two pounds and a half of sugar in two pints and a half of clear river water, add them to the distilled liqueur, pass the whole through a strainer, and put into bottles. ANGELICA Cakes*—Take fourounces of angelica powder, and two pounds of fine sugar. Beat up the white of an egg with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- sistence of cream cheese ; dissolve the su- gar in a skillet and skim it; when it has boiled a little, throw in the angelica, and boil the sugar to petit cassd, then take it from the fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten egg, and stir it quickly till the sugar rises, then stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till it rises a second time; it may now be poured into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and sprinkled with sifted sugar. Angelica (essence of) Jelly.—Havino- washed and well dried two ounces of an- gelica roots ; cut them in pieces and throw them into boiling syrup, (three quarters of a pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised angelica seeds; cover the mixture olose aud when cold, add to it half a glass of mrschwasser, and pass it through a tammy ; then filter, and afterwards put to it an ounce of isinglass: stir it lightly with a silver spoon; pound ten pounds of ice and put it into a large sieve or pan, place your mould in the middle of the ice, takino- care that it touches the ice in every part” pour the jelly into the mould, cover it wt!fSTrePA lld’Putice on that, and have If] " ‘ ^ h°UrS 5 after that time in the mnyiaiSaUCuPanlargeenou&h t0 take wamZ^ eaSllyi fiU 11 "ith water so in ite III, 7 \fn scarcely bear your hand the wafer tf6 ‘e m°uld ln so as to allow le water to pass over the whole, but as qmckly as possible, and then turn the jelly into your dish for table. This last operation should be performed with gle agility. Observe, in making these kinds of jellies, that no tinned or pewter vessels or spoons should be used, as they Impart to? 6 .1!"^ *9 your jellies, which ouglu to be of the colour of the ingredients em- ANG ployed, as for instance the above should be a clear light green colour. Angelica Liqueur *—Wash, scrape, and cut in small pieces, twelve ounces of fresh, or half the quantity of Bohemian angelica roots, and infuse them for a week in six pints of brandy and one of water, with a drachm of mace, two drachms of cinnamon and twelve cloves; at the end of that time distil it, then dissolve three pounds of sugar in three pints of water; mix it with the liqueur, strain it through a jelly-ba°- or filter it through paper. Observe, that the best brandy for liqueurs is that which is made at Montpelier, as it yields more m distillation than the Cogniac. Take notice also that the first drops which fall from the alembic after it is placed on the stove, must not be mixed with the liqueur. A glass should, therefore, be placed under the mouth 0f the alembic to receive them and when about a quarter of it is filled you may remove it, and place your bottles or matrass. The phlegm, as these drop- pings are called, is good for nothin o- Angelica Paste— Take young and pithy angelica stalks, boil them till tender dram and press all the water out ■ beat them in a mortar to a paste, and rub it through a sieve. Next day dry it over the fire, and to every pound of paste put a pound of powder sugar. When the paste is hot add the sugar, stirring it tilT tho- roughly mixed, over a gentle fire. Drop it on plates, dust a little sugar over them and dry them in a stove. ’ Angelica (preserved)Take the stalks thevba 1Ca When °f ]g0od size- but before they have run to seed ; clear off the leaves and as you cut the stalks into p— lengths throw them into water and W tz 2 ? ”»»ft • tiom the fire, and put them into cold water; take off the skin, and ao-ain Tut them into cold water ; then drain” and put them into an earthen pan, and pour over a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar to float the angelica. In twenty-four hours boH e sugar ten or a dozen times, and when ukenaim pour it over the stalks. pro_ ceed in the same way for four succeeding d.iys, after which, drain the stalks, and in the mean while boil the sugar (adding perld’ putethe8arj)rt0 ** ^ ^ perte, put the angelica to this, cover it Take itT1 6t, ltcb°U f,V° 0r six times, in pots. m re’ scum> and i,ut 11 by fiJli,GEvTCA. preserved dry).*— Proceed as lor the liquid, until you have pourod the