BRE 83 BRE or rich Welsh Ales. In lieu of boiling of that cool, refreshing, and wholesome the wore two hours, let it boil only one hour, but without ceasing for the whole time. Have ready six pounds of treacle, which must be thrown into the copper ; this adds to the strength of the malt, and gives great richness to the flavour of the ale. The liquor must be kept well stirred up the whole time, and particularly from the bottom : but as this is not brewed for keeping, three quarters of a pound of hops to every bushel of malt will be sufficient. Before it is tapped (which may be done in three or four months), fine it as before described with the hops, when it will be found to possess that rich, full flavour for which Burton and Welsh ales are so much esteemed. This has frequently been brewed in the early part of March, and drank in perfection at the latter end of the June following. Indeed, all well brewed ales and table beer, at three and four months old, are ripe and good. Edinburgh Oat Ales—Should be made from the best white, heavy, sweet oat, made into malt the same as barley is. The Scotch oats are preferred, and the ale made thereof, is said to he of a fine soft healing quality, and is of great repute, particularly in England, where it is not common. Though this ale requires a greater quantity of malt, it is brewed at a less price than others, as ten bushels will make a hogshead of fifty-four gallons, rich, soft and delicious, as no table beer is taken from it. From four to six months old it will become fit for use, either in bottles or casks. It must be brewed, ■ hopped, &c. in the same manner as Welsh ales. Some persons who grow their own oats m England, make this ale, with a part of oat malt, and a part barley malt. PonTER.—It is generally held that 1 porter, to be good, must necessarily be i brewed in large quantities; this, however, is a popular error. Excellent porter may bo brewed in private families, and by i proper management, so ordered, that amplo time between each brewing may be allowed lor it to refine for use. Those families, therefore, who have convenient utensils for brewing strong beers and ales, and who are acquainted with the process formakino- them successfully, may also add porter to the cellar stock, and thereby supply their tables with that truly English bever- age, and regale their friends with a tankard liquor, pure, genuine, and free from those pernicious adulterations which are some- times practised by the public brewer and too often by the publican, by whose cheat- ing rapacity the health of his customers is destroyed, and the reputation of the brewer who serves his tap suffers accord- ingly. It is well known that the excise- men are instructed to keep a vigilant eye upon the breweries, to prevent the use of deleterious drugs in the composition of beer, which instructions they more readily obey, as a heavy penalty is attached on detection of such malpractices; whilst the publican, who is commonly the most cul- pable, for his share in the adulteration of beer, is generally allowed to escape detec- tion. It would be well, therefore, that the publican should be liable to an equal penalty with the brewer, as his risk is less, and his profits certain, a very liberal allowance being granted to all retailers of London porter. The brewing of porter is nearly by the same process as the brewing of ale. The mash, however, must be made of a fine, high dried, sweet, full malt (which is cheaper than the pale malt used for brewing the strong beer and ale)); and full, fine, sweet, brown hops. It is not necessary for a porter brewer to give from ten to twenty shillings per hundredweight, for colour or appearance in hops, when in actual value and strength, they may be thirty per cent, inferior for his purposes; such bright and fair hops being only necessary in the brewing of the delicate and superior ales. The hop then selected for the brewing of porter, must be stout, gross, and thick blossomed; rich in condition, tlioutrh it be dull in colour. A species of hop, admirably well adapted for this purpose, is met with in Kent; it is the produce of the plant Humulus Germanicus. Hops of tins description are most proper for the purpose, because time should be given them to mellow; and the peculiar, soft, full, hitter, requisite, will be secured to them if kept. The necessary bitter cannot be extracted from the new hop, unaccompanied by harshness and unpleasantness. Good brewers (those who brew on a large scale) give their hops eight or even twelve months age, and then they work eight or ten pounds of hops per quarter of malt. When the wort and hops aro boiling, a 2