75 BLA BLA napkin, and wring it very tight, to press out all the milk from the almonds; then put into this milk, twelve ounces of crys- tallized sugar, broken into small pieces ; when the sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a napkin ; and then add to it one ounce of clarified isinglass, rather warmer than lukewarm ; and when the whole is well incorporated together, pour it into your mould. Your mould should be pre- viously put into pounded ice ; when your blanc-mange is ready to serve (which will be in two hours after it has been put into the mould), you must take it out of the mould according to the rule prescribed in Violet Jelly. Blanc-mange Fritters.*—Put a quarter of a pound of ground rice into a stewpan, mix with it two eggs, a pint of milk, and two ounces of sugar: let it boil one hour, stirring it frequently ; when well thick- ened, take it off, and add a little grated lemon peel, some dried orange flowers, shred, and a little salt: the whole being well mixed, spread it upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, and when cold, cut it into little bits, and make them into balls, with your hands floured ; fry in lard, and when dark-coloured, sugar and serve. Blanc-mange Fritters en Gimblettes.*— Prepare the paste the same as for Blanc- mange Diabloiins aux Avelines. When it is cold, cut it, and form it into your gim- blettes ; cut the pieces out from the middle vith a paste-cutter, nearly two inches in diameter. Then mask these little rounds (which you have cut from the gimblettes) all over with crumb of bread, very finely grated ; this must be done with the great- est care, for fear of spoiling their shape. After haying masked them in bread ciurnbs, dip them in four eggs beaten up ; then drain them, and again mask them in bread crumbs. In the same manner pre- pare the gimblettes, placing them upon plates ; and when you wish to serve, fry them of a nice colour; then sprinkle them all over with sugar, and place your little rounds in the centre of a dish, and arrange your gimblettes round them. Blanc-mange Fritters en Gimblettes, g uzed with Sugar.*—Prepare your gim- exac% the same as in the preceding receipt; and when you wish to serve them, jry them m butter as usual. Then drain them, after which, glaze them in caramel sugar. You may if you like, as you take them out of the fryingpan, strewthem over with pistachio nuts, cut very small, or dried orange flowers. Blanc-mange with Fruit.—Boil an ounce and a half of isinglass, and when quite dis- solved, strain it. Let it cool for half an hour, skim, and pour it free from sediment into another pan ; then whisk with it a table-spoonful of cedrat, and half a pound of currant jelly, strawberry, or raspberry jam ; and when it begins to jelly, fill the moulds. Blanc-mange, Hot*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, with eight bitter al- monds ; pound them very fine, and put them into a stewpan ; then put the same quantity of cream with a quarter more into another stewpan, and boil it with some sugar ; and when it boils put in your almonds, mix them well together, and then pass them through a bolting-cloth; a quarter of an hour before you wish to serve it, put your preparation over the fire ; turn it, reduce it, and continue turn- ing, until it is thick and keeps to the spoon ; then pour it into a silver dish, and serve. Blanc-mange, the Italian Way.—Take a cold capon that has been either boiled or roasted, take off the skin, mince the meat, and then pound it in a mortar with blanched almonds ; then add some capon broth and grated bread, salt, rose water, and sugar, previously strained through a sieve; then boil the whole till it is of a good consist- ence ; then either put it into a paste, or stew it. Blanc-mange without either Isinglass or Icing*—Prepare your almonds in the same manner as in the receipt for Blanc-mange a, la Franfaise, but only using half the quantity specified in that receipt, and likewise leaving out the isinglass. Then put into a pan the whites of four eggs, and whip them till they begin to whiten ; then add your blanc-mange, and place your pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip your preparation until the egg is thoroughly mixed with the almonds, and the whole begins to turn to a thick cream; and when it is of a proper consistence, pour into little cups, and serve it either hot or cold. When you wish to serve this entremets in little cups, and of any flavour you please, you must only make use of two thirds ot the quantity of almonds named in the receipt for Blanc-mange a la Fran- $aise. Blanc-mange with preserved Orange.— Fill the orange with blanc-mange ; when cold, stick in long slips of citron, like leaves, pour blanc-mange in a dish, and when cold, place the orange in the mid-