CHI CHI 166- some chopped parsley, and a little mace, cover them close down; when it is done enough, add six eggs well beaten; take out the parsley, and serve them in a deep dish with the sauce. Chickens (Souffld of).—Mince the white part of cold roasted chickens, pound it in a mortar, with some bechamelle, butter, pepper, salt, and the yolks of four eggs ; when well beat, strain it through a tammy ; then beat the whites of five eggs to a solid froth, mix it with the former, and put the whole into a deep dish, or raised pie-crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. Chicken (Stewed) au Poisson.-—Cut a carp with a fine roe into pieces, cut a chicken also into pieces, and put them into a stew- pan together, with a slice of ham, some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, thyme, hay leaf, basil, two cloves, a small piece of butter. When these have simmered together a little while, add some stock, a glass of wine, a little cullis, flour, pepper, and salt; boil them until the chicken is done, then take out the carp (leaving the roe), the ham and parsley, and put in their place a chopped anchovy, and a few ca- pers. Place the chicken on a dish mixed ■with the onions and roe. Take the fat from the sauce, and strain it over the whole. Chickens (Stuffed).—Boil apintofmilk with a handful of bread crumbs, until very thick ; when cold, beat it up in a mortar, with chopped parsley, and onions, thyme, a bay leaf, butter, the yolks of four eggs, pepper, and salt, stuff two chickens with this, sew it in, and roast the chickens be- tween rashers of bacon. Serve with the following sauce : A bit of butter rolled in flour, some stock, vinegar, a chopped an- chovy, a few capers, salt, and nutmeg, thickened over the fire. Chickens and Tarragon.*—Blanch some tarragon leaves for a quarter of an hour, then throw them into cold water, and when well drained, chop them very small, and mix a fourth part of it with the minced livers of two chickens, a bit of butter, salt and pepper, and stuff the two chickens, drawn and trussed, with it, put them into a stowpan with some butter, and do them up in it; then lay some bacon on the breasts, wrap them in paper, and roast, them. In the mean time put the rest of the tarragon into a saucepan, with a bit of butter worked into flour, the yolks of two e<ws, half a glass of meat gravy, two spoonsful of stock, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. Thicken it over the fire, but do not boil it, lest the eggs turn. Serve" this sauce over the chickens. Chickens u, la Tartare.*—Having pre- pared your chicken, parboil and cut it in half; break the bones, and soak it in melted fresh butter; with parsley, scal- lions, mushrooms, and garlic, cut up small, pepper, and salt. Dip it again in butter, bread it, and broil on a clear fire. It may be served either dry, or with some made mustard stirred in it. Second way.*—Split and break, and take out the bones of two young chickens, press them into around form, season, and wash them over with yolk of egg; cover them with bread crumbs, flatten them a little, and broil over a clear fire. Serve them with sauce Italienne. Chickens (Minced) in Timbale.—Make a batter with two spoonsful of flour, some grated nutmeg, four eggs stirred in, one at a time, and some new milk; it must not be too thin; fry it as for pancakes* but lay it very tbin in the pan, and co- lour it on one side only; cut each (ex- cept two or three) in half; lay a whole one at the bottom of a buttered mould, and the others round the sides; nearly fill up the mould with a thick mince of chicken, turn the ends of the pancakes over it, and lay another whole one at the top. Bake it in a moderate oven, and when done, turn it on a dish, and serve with good gravy. Chickens (Minced) in Timbale another Way.—Mould up the leavings of your paste, roll it out thin, line your timbale moulds, fill with bread crumbs or flour, bake and then empty them, fill with a good mince of chicken, and place on die top a puff paste cover baked purposely; dien serve very hot. Chickens and Tamata Sauce.*—Mix to- gether, in a stewpan, a little butter, salt, pepper, lemon juice, and grated nutmeg, a sufficient quantity to put in two chickens; tie it in, and lay thin slices of lemon on die breast of the chickens, and lav them in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of bacon; cover them with the same, and stew them with fire above and below for diree quarters of an hour; when done, drain them in a cloth ; unde them, and servo with tomata sauce. Chickens and Tongues.—Boil thre® voung chickens, a cauliflower, spinach, and six pigs’ tongues, peeled. Place the cauliflower in the centre of a dish, to chickens round it, and beyond them the tongues, with the roots outward; lay •