223 DAM DAM Dabs (Stewed).—Clean the dabs, and cut off the fins; put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will cover them; put to them an anchovy split, a blade of mace, some salt, a spoonful of lemon juice, and a shalot; let these simmer very slowly till they are done enough, skim them very clean, lay them to drain in a dish, but keep them hot; then strain off the liquor into the stewpan, put to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, a spoonful of ketchup, some pickled mushrooms, and a glass of white wine ; let it boil till it is of a proper thickness ; if there is any scum take it off, and pour the sauce over the fish. DAMSONS (Bottled).—Gather them on a dry day before they are ripe, when they have just turned their colour. Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, cork them close, and let them stand a fortnight; then carefully examine them, and if any of them are mouldy or spotted, take them out of the bottles, and cork the rest close. Put the bottles in sand, and they will keep good till the spring ; or you may bake them in a very slow baker’s oven, or coddle them between hay in a large pan of water. Damsons (Candied).—After they have been preserved, dip them in warm brandy to wash off the syrup ; then sift fine sugar- over them, and set them to dry in a stove or oven. Do this, taking them out three or four times, and sift sugar over them, 1 but do not let them be cold before they are quite dry. Damson Cheese*—Take eight pounds bf damsons, and bake them in a jar till they are tender; then rub them through a cullender, put to them one pound and a half of lump sugar, and let them boil to the thickness of marmalade. Damsons (Dried).—Take damsons that you have preserved, drain all the syrup from them, cover the bottoms of sieves ■*vith them, and put them into stoves which should be hot; change the sieves every day till they ;tre dry, and as you change the sieves turn the damsons, and when they are not sticky nor likely to give, take them out, paper a box and put them in, and lay a paper between each layer of damsons. Damsons (Dried).—Make a thin syrup, let it boil, awl skim it, then stone your damsons, and put them into the syrup ; hod them up once, then leave them in he syrup; make another syrup with some Xe lne^ sugar, with just sufficient water to damp it; boil this syrup till it is candied, then take the damsons out of the first syrup, and put them into the syrup you have just made ; let them simmer in it a little over the fire, and leave them in afterwards, till the following day; then place them one by one on a sieve, and dry them upon a stove or in nearly a cold oven, turning them twice a day. When they are dry, place them by layers into boxes, with paper between each layer : keep them in a dry, cool place. Damson Drops.—Put some damsons in the oven to bake, but not so much as to break; then skin and stone them, and pass them through a sieve; sift some common loaf sugar through a lawn sieve, and mix with them ; make it very thick, drop them off your knife on paper, and put them on the stove to dry ; when they are quite dry, turn them on a sieve, and wet the outside of the paper, and they will come oft' easily; put them into the stove again till they are quite dry and hard, and then put them into papered boxesi Damson Dumplings.—Make a good hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a basin, and put in as many damsons as you please. Wet the edge of the paste and close it up; boil it in a cloth for an hour ; pour melted butter over it, grate sugar round the edge of the dish, and serve. Damson Ice Cream.—Take three ounces of preserved damsons, pound and break the stones of them, put them into a basin, squeeze in two lemons, and a pint of creamj press them through a sieve, and freeze it. Damson Ice (Water).—Take a quarter of a pound of preserved damsons and break the stones ; put them into a basin, squeeze in one lemon, add nearly a pint of water, and half a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it rich. Damson Jelly.—To eight pounds of damsons, put eight pounds of fine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil them for half an hour over a gentle fire, till the skins break; then take them off, and set them by for an hour ; set them on the fire again, for half an hour more; set them by again for the same time; do so the third time; while they stand off the fire, put a weight upon them to keep them under the syrup. The Inst time, you must boil them till you perceive they are of a very high colour in the part where the skin ^is broken; then take them oft, set thorn by to cool, and when they are cold, drain off’the syrup, and make the jelly in the following manner: lloil a good quantity of green