ORA ORA 384 pound of orange flowers, and two pounds of sugar; take the fibres from the flowers, which throw into a saucepan of cold water; when all are done, squeeze over them the juice of one large or two small lemons; set this on the fire, constantly stirring till the flowers give to the touch, then take them out, and lay them on a sieve, pouring cold water on them till they are quite cold. Put them into a mortar, and pound them to a sort of paste, which mix with the sugar boiled to boule ; boil them together a few times, then take it oif, and mix with it a pound of apple jelly ; as soon as they are thoroughly incor- porated, the marmalade may he put into pots, which must not, however, he co- vered till cold. Orange Flower Pastils.— Pulverise a good pinch of dried orange-flowers; pound them with gum-dragon, previously dis- solved in one glass of plain, and the same quantity of orange-flower water; add a suf- ficient proportion of powder-sugar, to make the paste of the requisite consistence,which form according to your taste into cones, lozenges, &c. Orange Flower Pralines .*—Take a pound of very fresh white orange-flowers, pick, and throw them into cold water ; clarify and boil two pounds of sugar to souffle, then put in the flowers; stir them with a spatula, until your sugar regains the de- gree of soufflt; take the pan from the fire, and continue stirring till the sugar is se- parated from the flowers, and becomes a powder; set it in a stove to dry, then set the whole on a sieve, that the sugar may run through and leave the flowers, which put into bottles. If preserved in a dry place they will keep for twelve months. Orange Flowers (to preserve'). — lake the orange flowers just as they begin to open; put them into boiling water, and let them boil very quickly till they aro tender, putting in a little juice of lemon ns they boil, to keep them white, then drain them, and carefully dry them between two napkins ; put them into clarified sugar, (a sufficient quantity to cover them), the next day drain the syrup, and boil it a .little smooth ; when almost cold, pour it on the flowers; the following day drain them, and lay them out to dry, dusting them a very little. Orange Flowers (7iatqfia of). I3ib- solve three pounds of sugar in a sufficient quantity of water, set it on the firo, add a pound of well-picked orange flowers, and „jve the wholo one boil, then let it cool, and pour it into a jar, put to it three quarts of the best brandy ; cover the ves- sel very close, and leave it a fortnight; after which filter, and bottle the ratafia. Orange Flowers (Syrup of).*—Clarify and boil four pounds of sugar to perle, then add three quarters of a pound of fresh orange flowers picked, and boil them once ; then take the pan from the fire, and let it stand for two hours, after which, replace it on the fire; when it has had about a dozen boilings, pour it through a sieve into another saucepan, boil the syrup to lisse, and put it aside ; when quite cold, bottle it. The flowers may he used as follows : put them into powder-sugar, with which rub them well with your hands till quite dry, then sift and put them in a stove. Orange-Flower Water* -—- Put into a still ten pounds of fresh gathered orange flowers, and six quarts of pure river wa- ter; take particular care to close up all the apertures of the still perfectly, and set it on a moderate fire, that the ebulition may not he too strong; he particular in cooling it frequently, or, at least, when- ever the water in the boiler becomes too warm, change it, and put in fresh ; much depends on the attention paid to this part of the operation. From the above quan- tity, three quarts of orange-flower water may be drawn. Orange Flower (Double) II ater* — Draw four quarts of orange-flower water from six quarts distilled as above ; put to this water the same quantity of fresh flowers, distil it in the same manner, and it will yield five pints. Orange Peel (to Candy).*—Take some Seville orange peel, and let it soak in seve- ral waters till it has lost its bitterness, then boil it in a solution of double refined sugar in water, till it becomes tender and transparent. Orange Peel (to Preserve).*—Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put the peel in strong salt and spring water, to soak for three days, repeat this three times, then put them on a sieve to dry; take one pound of loaf sugar, add to it one quart of spring water, boil it, skim it until quite clear; let the peels simmer until they are quite transparent; dry them before the fire; take loaf sugar, with just sufficient water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is boiling, put in the peels, stirring continu- ally until all the sugar is candied round them, then put them to dry either before the fire or in an oven, and when perfectly dried, put them by for use.