marie until the water is evaporated, and 238 EGG EGG make these into a paste, of which form little stirring; it till it is melted; then put the melted butter and the eggs into a saucepan ; keep a basin in your hand, hold the sauce- pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way ; as it begins to warm, pour it into a basin and back, then again hold it over the fire, keeping it con- stantly stirring in the saucepan, and pour- ing into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread, or in a basin, to eat with salt fish or red herrings. Egos au Caramel.*—Take the yolks of a dozen hard eggs, bruise them in a sauce- pan, with some powder sugar, three al- mond biscuits, and half a glass of cream ; eggs ; dip them in caramel sugar, and brown them. Eggs in Caul.—Cut bits of caul large enough to wrap a poached egg within it, with a little ready prepared farce of any kind, minced meat, stewed greens, or onions fried in butter;. roll them up, dip them in yolks of eggs, and bake in the oven about a quarter of an hour in a baking-dish : serve with any sauce you please. Eggs and Cream*—Boil half a pint of cream till reduced to half the quantity ; then add eight eggs, season them with salt and pepper, boil them together, till the eggs are partly hard ; pass a salamander over the top, and serve. Eggs a la Creme.*—Put into a saucepan a little butter, a spoonful of flour, some shred parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, mix them together, add a glass of cream ; when it has boiled up once, pour it upon a dozen hard eggs cut in slices, beat all up together, and serve. Eggs (Croquettes of).*—Cut the yolks and whites of a dozen and half of hard boiled eggs into dice, and put them into a saucepan, and pour on them a cream sauce, udth the addition of a little shred parsley and scallions, stir them well together over the fire, and then set it to cool; when cold, pour a large tea-spoonful on a plate ; form it like other croquettes, roll them in bread crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them in a hot pan ; drain, and serve them. . Eggs a la Duchesse.*—Boil a pint and a half of cream with some sugar, orange flower, candied lemon peel, marchpane, and burnt almonds, all chopped small or bruised ; whip up the whites of eight eggs well, and then take two or three spoonsful of them at a time, and poach them in the cream ; drain, and lay them on a dish, so as to resemble eggs poached without the yolks. When all the whites are thus used, put the cream i1| on the fire, and reduce it, and as the dish ; : is sent to table, add the yolks to the 1 cream, and pour the sauce gently over:)'! the eggs. Eocs a VEau.*—Put a pint of water, .t^ a little sugar, orange-flower water, and i a green lemon peel; let these boil for ail quarter of an hour, and then set them to > II cool. Break seven eggs into another sauce- pan, and mix them with the water and other ingredients, and strain them into i the table dish ; set the dish into the bain- ■ the eggs are rather firm. Eggs en Filagramme*—Take a pint of 1 white wine, half a pound of fine powder sugar, and make it into a clear syrup with K the white of an egg; beat up well eight I eggs, and pour them through a cullender into the syrup ; a very short time is sufficient to cook them. Serve either hot or cold. Eggs (Fricasseed).— Boil your eggs pretty hard, slice them, then take a little veal gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit of butter, nutmeg, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a few pickled mushrooms. Boil this up, and pour it over the eggs. Put a hard yolk in the middle of the dish, with toasted sippets. Eggs fricasseed with Onions and Mush- rooms.—Boil your eggs hard, take the yolks out whole, cut the whites in slips, and some onion and mushrooms ; fry the onion and mushrooms; throw in the whites, turn them about a little; if any fat, pour it off; flour the onions, See.; add to it a little good gravy, boil this up, add pepper and salt, and the yolks. Egg Fritters*—Pound a dozen hard- boiled eggs with a little cream, and a quarter of a pound of beef marrow; then > pound half a dozen macaroons, some bitter 1 almonds, a little sugar, and lemon peel; I mix these with the pounded eggs, and form them into fritters, dip them into a batter made with flour, butter, salt, and lemon peel; fry them in very hot lard, sprinkle susrar over, and serve. Eggs (Fried).*—Make three thin ome- lets, with three eggs in each, and seasoned with parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper > as you do them, lay them out, and ro them up tight, cut each in half, dip every piece into beaten egg, then into bread i—n