426 PIG PIG your dish, place a bit of eel on every one, and serve with any sauce you may think proper. Pigeons with Marrow.—Truss three or four large pigeons for roasting, and stuff them with a farce made of beef marrow, two anchovies, shalots, parsley, tarragon leaves (all shred very small), seasoned with pepper and nutmeg, and hound to- gether with the yolks of two eggs. IVrap the birds in slices of bacon and paper, roast and serve them with a sauce made as fol- lows : Take a little cullis, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, two slices of peeled lemon, some bruised rocamboles, salt, and pepper; boil plus for twenty or thirty minutes, till of a good consist- ence, strain, add a little butter, simmer a minute or two, and then pour it into the dish under the pigeons. Pigeons a, la Monarque.*—Take six young pigeons, as near of a size as possi- ble, and having peppered and trussed them properly, heat three quarters of a pound of butter, to which add the juice of two or three lemons and a little salt; put the pigeons into this, give them a few turns, but be careful not to let the birds take the least colour; in a few minutes take them out, and having completely lined a stewpan with bacon, lay the pigeons in it (the legs towards the centre of the pan), pour in the whole of the butter, a glass of white wine, a spoonful of con- somme, add a seasoned boquet; cover them with slices of bacon, and a round of but- tered paper; set them on a brisk fire, which lessen as soon as it boils, and put hot ashes at the top. When sufficiently done, drain them and putthem into a silver dish over a ragout a la Toulouse; between each bird a blanched cock’s-comb, and a crayfish, and on each a veal sweetbread. Pigeons a la Montmorence.*—Having well cleaned the pigeons, fill them with any good farce you think proper, wrap each in bacon, place them in small moulds exactly their size, cover them very close, and put them in a moderate oven for three hours ; then take them out of the moulds, pour some rich consomme over, and serve them very hot. Pigeons with Onions.—Cut a dozen large onions into dice, which put into a stewpan witli plenty of butter; set them on the fire, and keep 'stirring till they are done ; when cold, mix with them the yolks of three eggs, a little grated bacon, two chopped anchovies, a pinch of pounded aniseed, salt, and pepper. In the mean time, having braised some pigeons, cover each completely writh the above prepara- tion, and then in veal caul, which fix to- gether with white of egg; roll them in bread crumbs, place them on a dish, pour a few drops of oil or melted butter over, and bake them. Serve them with a sauce composed of cullis and consommi. Pigeons like Ortolans.*—Cover your pigeons with small slices of bacon, placed like scales, so completely that the feet can barely be seen ; give them a few turns in a sauce a atelets, and then fasten them to a spit, and roast before a clear fire; a very short time is sufficient. Pigeons en Papillotes.*—Your pigeons being ready, cut off the feet, and truss them with the legs inwards, split them down the back, flatten and season them with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatics ; put into a saucepan a good piece of butter, a quarter of a pound of grated bacon, four dessert-spoonsful of oil, and the pigeons; set them on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then take out the pigeons, and put to the butter three dessert-spoonsful of mushrooms, one of shalots, and one of parsley (all shred small) salt and spices, give them a few turns, and pour the sauce over tlie birds; have ready some square pieces of paper, oil them, and fold a half pigeon in each piece; about half an hour before dinner, boil them over a slow fire. Serve w-ith a clear gravy. Pigeons with Parmesan.—Take the livers of as many pigeons as you intend to dress, mince them with grated bacon, chopped mushrooms, shalots and parsley; mix them together, stuff the birds with it, and put them in a stewpan, wTith some slices of veal; cover them witli bacon ; add a few spoonsful of broth ; set them on a slow fire to simmer. When done, take out the pigeons, and put in a little cullis ; give it a boil, and then strain it. Put some of this sauce into a dish for table ; grate Parmesan cheese into it, and then put in the birds, set the dish on hot ashes ; pour more sauce, grate cheese over, and colour it witli a salamander. Pigeons ( Pickled).—Bone them ; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder; then turn them again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put them into boil- ing water ; let them boil a minute or two to plump : after this, take them out, and thoroughly dry them; then put them into a pickle, which should be made of equal quantities of white nine.