38 BAL BAD herbs, as thyme, sage, savory, sweet mar- joram, pennyroyal, parsley, and onions ; chop these small, and mix them with the yolks of hard eggs, pepper, and nutmeg, beaten, and boil it until tender. When it is cold pare off the under side, pull off the skin, season it with pepper and nutmeg, and put it in a pie or pasty, with whole cloves and slices of raw bacon laid over it; close it, and bake it. Bacon (to make).*—Rub the flitches well with common salt, and let them lie so that the brine may run from them. In about a week rub oft’ all the salt and put them into a tub. Then rub into the flitches a pound of saltpetre, pounded aud heated; the next day do the same with common salt, also heated. Let them lie a week, often rubbing, then turn and rub them; do the same for three weeks or a month. At the end of that time dry and hang them up for use, and dust it well all over, as it dries, with malt dust. Bacon Omelet.*■—Cut some streaky bacon, which has been hoiled for half an hour, into dice, and fry it simply with a bit of butter. When it begins to get crisp, pour into the fryingpan a dozen eggs (previously beaten), stir them well with the bacon, gather up the edges of the omelet, to keep it of a proper thickness, and season with pepper. Bacon Tart.—Melt a pound of fat ba- con in a fryingpan, and strain it with the bottoms of two or three artichokes, two macaroons, and the raw yolks of a couple of eggs; season with salt, pepper, beaten cinnamon, and sugar; then set it on the fire, stirring it continually with a spoon, then put it into a pattypan upon a very thin sheet of paste, bake it for half an hour without any covering or paste, then ice it over with icing made of sugar and orange- flower water. Bacon Toast.*— Cut off the ends of a stale large roll, and lard the middle with streaked bacon; then with a very sharp knife cut the roll in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, dip them in egg, and fry gently in a very hot pan, until of a good colour. Serve with clear sauce, with a little vinegar and pepper. I he bacon must first have been boiled. \ou may vary it by adding fine herbs chopped, and pepper, with the egg. _ , . . BADIANE, Indian*—Take a pound of starred anise, pound and infuse it in six quarts of good brandy for a week, when add to it a pint and a half of water, and distil it. Dissolve seven pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water, and add it to the distilled liquor. Stir it well, strain and bottle it. This is also called Badiane Cream. Some persons colour it with a little cochineal, it is then called Oil of Badiane. BAIN Marie.—A flat vessel, containing boiling water, meant to hold oilier sauce- pans, either for purposes of cookery, or to keep dishes hot. The advantage of pre- servingthe heat of dishes by the bain-marie is this, that no change is effected in the flavour of the ingredients, and they neither discolour nor reduce. BAKING.—The following useful ob- servations, written by Mr. lumer, Eng- lish and French Bread and Biscuit Baker, at the instance of the author of the Cook s Oracle, are printed in that very popular work: “ Baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of dressing a dinner in small families; and I may say, that the oven is often the only kitchen a poor man has, if he wishes to enjoy a joint of meat at home with his family. “ I do not mean to deny the superior excellence of roasting, to baking; but some joints, when baked, so nearly ap- proach to the same when roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the table, and eaten as such with great satis- faction. “ Legs and loins of pork, legs of mut- ton, fillets of veal, and many other joints, will bake to great advantage if the meat be good, I mean well fed, rather inclined to be fat; if the meat be poor, no baker can give satisfaction. “ When baking a joint of poor meat, before it has been halt baked, 1 have seen it start from tire bone, and shrivel up scarcely to be believed. _ • “ Besides those joints above-mentioned, I shall enumerate a few other dishes, which I can particularly recommend^ See Pig, Goose, Buttock of Beef, Ham. BALM IPtne.—Boil twenty pounds of lump sugar in four gallons and a half of water gently for an hour, and put it in a tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the tops of green balm, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeast, and when the syrup is nearly cold pour it on the balm. Stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring frequently; brin<'r it up, and when it has stood for six weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into each bottle ; cork it tight. The longer it is kept the better it will be.