GEN GEE 275 flowers, &c. &c., in proper quantities, into the above preparation. Gateau de Pitliiviers Anglo-Fra n- fais..*—Take eight ounces of pounded sweet almonds; four of beef marrow shred very fine, two of powder sugar, two of hitter macaroons, two of dry currants, two of the best raisinss, stoned, half an ounce of crisped orange flowers, a grain of salt, the yolks of four eggs, half a glass of Spanish wine, and half a nutmeg grated; put these ingredients into a saucepan, and stir them well. Prepare the puff paste as above directed (Gateau de pitliiviers), adding to this a narrow i raised edge; pour in the preparation, which, being rather liquid, would run out but for this precaution; cover, and bake it in the usual manner. To this may also : he added other ingredients to vary its flavour. Gateau Royal*—Three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, an ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, six drachms of ( vanilla, a glass of maraschino, three quar- t ters of a pound of muscadel raisins, two pounds of butter, twelve yolks, and •: twelve whole eggs, and some spoonsful of whipped cream. Stone the raisins, put ■ them into a basin with the maraschino and (vanilla pounded with thesugar and strained, ' cover the basin very closely, and set it f aside. Make the leaven as before directed (Gateau de Compiegne). "Then put three t parts of the butter into a pan, melt the ;■ fourth part and add to it, beat them to a scream, and, at intervals of two minutes, put in two whole eggs and two yolks* until all are used ; to this add the other ingredients, and finish the g&teau in the same manner as Gateau de Compiegne. | GEESE (to choose). — Be careful in choosing a goose, that the bill and feet are yellow, as it will he young: when old the feet and hill are red. When they are ?tresh the feet are pliable ; if stale, they are dry and stiff. Green geese are in season Irom May to June, till they are three months old; they should be scalded. A stubble goose is good till it is five or six 'months old, and should be picked dry. ) Geese (Legs of) d la Rdmoulade*—T ako me legs of one or more geese, and dress mem a la braise ; then dip them into the fat, !? Wlllch tjmy were cooked ; then bread lem ; sprinkle them over with a little ,mod oil, and broil them of a fine brown : ■orve dry, with a separate sauce a la remou- '‘ae, made in the followingmanner : Mix a 1 ue mustard in a saucepan, with salt and pepper, also capers, anchovies, parsley, leeks, and a clove of garlic, chopped up together very fine, and diluted with oil and vinegar. Geese (to Preserve) *—Take any num- ber of geese, and roast till they are about three parts done, being careful to preserve the fat that drops from them ; let them cool, and when cool cut each goose into four parts, taking off the legs, and keeping the breasts and wings together; place them very close, one upon the other, in an earthen pot, putting between each layer three or four bay leaves and some salt: then melt the goose grease which has been preserved, with a good quantity of ho°’s lard, and pour it into the pot; there must be a sufficient quantity to cover the birds - twenty-four hours afterwards close up the pot with parchment, and when the whole is quite cold, put it in a dry place to keep for use. When you want to use them, take the pieces of goose out of the fat and before using, wash them well in warm water. 0? Truss).- The goose must be hist well picked and stubbed, then cut off the pinions at the first joint, and the feet also. Make a slit in the back of the neck and take out the throat, cut off the neck close to the back and the skin, but leave enough to turn over the back ; make a slit between the vent and the rump, through winch draw out the entrails, then wipe it clean. Draw the legs up, keeping them close to the side, then put a skewer into the wmg, through the middle of the le°- body, and the leg and wing on the other side; put another skewer through the small of the leg, which keep close to the sidesmen; run it through, and do the same on the other side. Cut’through fhe end of the vent, through which put the rump, to prevent the stuffing from falling six^oim?rSEf'*~PiUtint0 an eartIlen Pan six ounces of powder sugar six whole eggs (asifforbiscuits), a quarter °f apound flo;li’,1le samo of sweet almonds pound- ed, a little orange-flower water, a small bmte 7 Mfsalt( and ab°ut four ounces of butter. Mix these ingredients together veil; butter a baking plate, and spread the preparation over it.Yo the thickEsof? halfcrown piece; put it into a brisk oven of a proper colour, and then cut your fu ™t0 iUCh f°,rmS !lS^ou maT fancy; put them into a stove to dry, and then serve them. J u When you have proceeded thus far, you T 2