VEA 514 YEA into this disla ; when the veal is done, take it up, make the herbs and gravy hot, and pour it into the dish with the meat. Veai, (Loin of) roasted.—The fat of the loin must he papered; roast it the same as the fillet. Veal (Neck of) boiled.—Chop ofi the chine hone from a line white neck of veal, sprinkle it with flour, put it in cold water, boil it very gently, taking care to slam it well; when done, serve it with parsley and butter, oyster sauce, or garnished with tongue or ham. Veal (Neck of) a la Creme, —lake a handsome-shaped neck of veal, hone and cut out all the sinews, soak it m milk tor four-and-twenty hours ; then take it out, dry it well, sprinkle it with salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, fasten it to the spit, and roast it for two hours and a half, basting it with bicliamelle. When done, putabit of glaze, a little pepper and nutmeg to the btchamdle; stir them to- gether, pour the sauce into a dish, and serve the neck of veal in it. Veal (Neck of) in Jelly, —lake a square-cut neck of veal, and having boned it, lard it regularly with udder, tongue, a ‘Vicariate, and very black truffles; wrap in slices of bacon, and tie it up; put the -joint into a braising-pan with remnants o. veal and poultry, a bouquet, two carrots, two onions, two cloves, a glass of brandy, half a class of Madeira wane, and two ladiesful of jelly; set the pan on the fire; when the liquor boils, skim it, cover the whole with a buttered paper, and close the braising-pan ; set it on a stove with fire on the lid; keep the heat moderate and equal for two hours and a half. W hen done, put the meat under pressure, and when cold, trim and glaze it. Lay it on a dish : serve it with the jelly, and a in ay on- naise Veal (Neck of) au Sanglw. —Lard a good-shaped neck of veal as usual, ana marinate it in two glasses of vinegar, with onions, hay leaf, sage, coriander, pepper, and salt; place it over hot ashes for two hours, and then roast it, using the marmade t0 VeT^Nechof) stewed. Season some slices of bacon with pepper, salt, shnlots and spices; lard a breast of veal with these, and let it simmer until tender three pints of stock, two onions, n bay leaf, and a little brandy; "hen done, lay the meat in a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, and pour it over the vea . Veal (Non) cn Eallottine* Season some lardons with salt, pepper, the four spices, shred parsley and scallions, thyme, and bay leaf; lard with this a noil of veal, and then put it into a stewpan with half a pound of butter, add pepper and salt, set it on the fire for three quarters of an hour, without letting it take colour; then put the veal in a dish; leave the pan on the fire that the butter may oil, when add a quarter of a pound of grated bacon, the same of oil, and a dessert-spoonful of shalots, chopped; fry them a little, then put in a dozen champignons chopped, a spoonful of shred parsley, seasoned with pepper and nutmeg; when they are all done, pour them over the veal. As soon as cold, take six sheets of paper, oil them well, lay thin slices of bacon over the meat, and then wrap it in a sheet of pa- per, with all its seasoning, fold a second over that, folded the reverse way, then again another, and so on till all the paper is used ; take care that the ends are quite secure, and that it is folded of a nice shape ; then tie it up, place it on a grid- iron, over a slow fire, minding the paper does not burn : do it tor an hour, untie the paper, and serve it; if the outer paper should be coloured in the least degree, take it off. Veat. (Noirof) a la Gendarme*—Lard a noil of veal with fat bacon, and tongue d Vicariate, and then soak it for twelve hours in oil, with a sliced onion, parsley, thyme, garlic, a bay leaf, pepper, and salt, after which wrap it in a sheet of paper, with all the marinade: fold two more sheets of paper over it, fasten the iwix to a spit, and roast it; remove the paper when the meat is nearly done, that it may brown, daze it lightly, and serve it with a pn, erode. The paper should he well oiled before the veal is wrapped in it. Veal (Noix of) Sautes.*—Having taken off the skin, cut. a noix of veal into round pieces, the size and thickness of a dollar, bent each piece with the back of a knite, lay them neatly in a pan, and pour over them melted butter, with shred parsley, scallions, pepper, and salt; set the pan on the fire, and the moment the pieces ot real are hot on one side, turn them over, and heat the other: five minutes is quite suf- ficient to do them; then lay them on a dish and keep them hot ; reduce rather more veloute than usual, add to it the Dray from the pan, and a liaison of two c-^ strain this sauce over toe pieces . ^ Veal (Now of) en Surprae.*—Take 8