BEE 56 BEE never grace the Parisian tables, they are usually made to send as presents to the different provinces, to celebrate some grand hunting-parties. Beef Pie a la Chasse,—It is usually made ■with raised pie paste, or else with what is termed ■pate brisee. Beef Pies raised with Truffles.—Bone a small fat rump of beef, daub it with slips of fat bacon, put it into a raised crust with light forcemeat and plenty of whole peel- ed green truffles round it; cover it with the paste, garnish and bake it two hours ; then add a sauce, made with a pint of veal Broth, a gill of lemon pickle, a bay leaf, a few chopped slialots and cayenne pepper; make it of a proper thickness, and strain. Two hours afterwards, cut the top off the pie, skim it free from fat, glaze the rump, and serve it to table ; when cold, serve with aspic jelly. Beef Portugal. — Take meat from a rump of beef, cut it across, flour it, and fry the thin part brown in butter ; stuff the thick end with suet, boiled chestnuts, an anchovy, an onion, and a little pepper ; stew it with good strong broth, and when tender, cut the fried in two, and lay it on each side of the stewed in the dish; strain the gravy, put to it pickled gherkins chopped, and some broiled chestnuts. Thicken with butter and flour, and boil it up two or three times ; season with salt, pour it over the beef, garnish with lemon, and serve it. Beef ( Potted).*—Take some lean beef, rub it with salt and saltpetre, let it lay three or four days, then cut it in pieces, and boil it; then beat it fine, mixing with it some fat; add spice, put it in pots, and pour butter over it. Beef (Potted).—Take two pounds of the fillet out of the inside of a rump of beef, and two pounds of best fat bacon. Cut them small, put them in a marble mortar, add to them a small quantity of parsley, thyme, savory, four slialots, chop- ped fine, some pepper, salt, two spoonsful of essence of ham, a spoonful of mush- room powder, sifted mace, cloves and all- spice, a little of each, two eggs beaten, and a gill of Rhenish wine. Pound all well together till quite fine; then fill small pots with the mixture, cover with pepper, bake it very gently for forty minutes, and when cold, cover with clarified butter. Beef ( Potted).—Take three pounds of lean beef, salt it two or three days with half a pound of common salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre; divide it into pieces of a pound each, and put it into an earthen pan just sufficient to contain it; pour in half a pint of water, cover it close with paste, and set it in a very slow oven for four hours: when taken from the oven pour the gravy from it into a basin, shred the meat fine, moisten it with the gravy poured from the meat, and pound it tho- ! roughly in a marble mortar with fresh butter, till it becomes a fine paste, season it with black pepper and allspice, or clover pounded, or grated nutmeg ; put it in pots, press it down as close as possible, put a weight on it, and let it stand all night j next day, when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an inch thick with clarified but- ter, and tie it over with paper. Beef, Potted like Venison.—Take a whole thin flank of beef, pull off the inward skin, and slash it across and across, par- ticularly in the thickest parts ; lay it for six hours in pump water, take as much hard salt, or saltpetre, as the quantity of an egg, mixed with about two pounds of white salt, and rub it well into the meat; then sprinkle upon it nearly' a pint of wine- vinegar, and then let it lay for three or four days, turning and rubbing it once a day; then rinse it out of the brine with a pint of claret, and season it with cloves, mace, and nutmeg, white and Jamaica pep- per, of each a quarter of an ounce, beaten all together with savory', thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon, shred together, and then well rubbed into the cuts and slashes and the inside ; then bind it up with tape, and lay it in a long pot; put in the claret, and lay the skins at the top to save it; then bake it. Beef a la Poulette.*—Mince some beef, and put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter; when the butter is melted, add a good pinch of flour; stir the whole well together, and moisten it with a little gravy; season with salt, pepper, and parsley; when ready to serve, thicken it with the y'olks of eggs and a little vinegar. Beef (Pressed).—Salt a piece of brisket .(thin part of the flank), or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre, five days, then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight, or in a cheese press, till perfectly' cold. It eats excel- lently cold, and for sandwiches. Beef (en Miroton).— Roast a tender piece of beef, lay' fat bacon all over it, and roll it in paper; baste it, and when it is roasted cut about two pounds in tbit* slices; lay them in a stewpan, and take six large cucumbers, peel them, chop them