Fill them out, drain them on a napkin, sprinkle FRIITERS.—Make them of any of the FRI 266 cut it into tbin slices, and then cut them thin as possible, to the form of a long hatters directed for pancakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan, or make the plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and cored in the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants or sliced lemon, as thin as possible, are very nice. Fritters.—Fritters should be sent to table served upon a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. Fritters a I’Anglo-Franfuise.*—Take a marrow pudding, and when nearly cold, again into pieces two inches long, by three quarters of an inch wide, dip them into hatter, and fry them in the usual manner; when drained, glaze them with fine sugar, and serve them very hot. The batter for the above fritters. See the recipe for Batter. Fritters au. Blanc* — Mix together a handful of rice flour and some milk, set them on the fire, stirring constantly, add a little cream, sugar, lemon peel, and orange flowers; when it has become of a proper consistence, take it from the fire; as soon as it is cold, roll it into balls about the size of a nut, dip them in batter, and fry them. Fritters (Blondin).*—Put some butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted add to it a glass of milk, and a pinch of salt, keep it on the fire till it boils : then mix in a sufficient quantity of flour to make it into a consistent paste, which will not stick to the fingers; spread it on a table, roll it out to the thickness you may re- quire, cut it in round, oval, or any other formed pieces you may think proper, and fry them of a nice colour, in the best oil; sprinkle sugar over, and serve them. Fritters (French) of Brandy Fruits.*— Take a dozen apricots (or other fruits) preserved in brandy, drain, and cut them in half; then wrap them in wafers cut round and previously moistened, dip them in the same kind of batter as that used for fritters d 1'Anglo-Fravpiise, and fry them; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. Fritters a la Cole*—Soak in brandy some leaves and the young and tender shoots of the vine, dip them in a batter made of milk, yolks of eggs, and flour, fry them in boiling oil, sprinkle them with sugar. Elder flowers arc made into fritters in the same manner. Fritters a la Dauphine.*—Take a pound of brioche paste, and roll it out as square ; on part of this lay small quantities of apricot marmalade at intervals, slightly i wet the paste round each piece of preserve, and lay over the plain part of the paste so as to cover the other completely, press it down lightly that the marmalade may not escape in the cooking, and cut out your fritters with a circular paste-cutter of two inches in diameter; flour them a little, and then lay them in rather a hot friture, when the paste will swell them into little balls; as soon as they are of a proper colour take them with fine sugar, and serve them. Fritters ( Mignan).* — Put two good spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, and mix it with the whites and yolks of two eggs, a little salt, two ounces of sugar, some lemon peel grated, half a tea-spoonful of milk, and half a tea-spoonful of cream; stir it over a slow fire, and, when well done and well thickened, spread the cream upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, and, when cold, cut it into bits with a paste- cutter, the same as for pelits-putes; dip each bit into a batter made with two spoonsful of flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, mixed with two eggs; fry the fritters, and serve, glazed with sugar and a salamander. Fritters (Royal).—Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it be- gins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine; then take it off, and let it stand five or six minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a basin : beat it up well with six eggs, and season it with nutmeg ; then beat it with a whisk, and add flour sufficient to give it the proper consistence of batter. Put in some sugar and fry them quick. Fritters Souffles*—Mix the yolks of four eggs, half a spoonful of olive oil, and a pinch of salt, with half a pound of flour; whip the whites of the eggs to a snow, and add it to the rest. When your paste is of the consistence of a thick batter, take a spoonful of it and roll it in flour; make each ball about the size of a walnut, throw them into a hot friture of oil, and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and serve them hot. Fritters Souffles* — Make some flour and beer into a batter that will flow a little; take a little of it out with a spoon, throw it iuto a fryingpan with boiling oil; the moment it rises, take it out, and proceed in the same way till all the batter is used ; then sprinkle them with salt, and serve.