BRO BRO 87 together, so that they may appear whole ; dip them in a paste made of flour, a little oil, salt and white wine, fry them of a gold colour, and glaze them with sugar; pass a salamander over. . Brioche Fritters.*—Cut your brioche paste into slices of whatever thickness you may think proper, soak them in milk, sugar, and orange-flower water ; then let them drain; dip in batter, or flour alone, and fry them. ' Brioche au Fromage.—When you make the brioche, cut some Swiss cheese into dice, and throw them into the paste while it is liquid, and bake as before. BROCOLI.—Strip off all the little branches till you come to the top one, then with a knife peel away the hard outside skin from the stalks, and throw them into ■Water. Have ready a stewpan of water, throw in a little salt, and when it boils put in the brocoli. When the stalks are tender it is done. Put a piece of toasted bread in a dish, lay the brocoli on it. Serve with melted butter. Another way.—Prepare them as above, and stew till tender, with pepper and salt. Biiocor.i and Eggs.—Boil brocoli as Usual, reserve a large bunch for the middle. ■Toast apiece of bread and lay it on a dish; beat up as many eggs ns you think proper, ■put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter and a little salt. Keep beating them with a spoon till thick enough, and then pour them on the toast. Set the large bunch of brocoli in the middle, and the other pieces round it. Garnish the dish w-ith sprigs of brocoli. Brocoli may be dressed exactly the same as cauliflowers. ■ BROILING.*—The process is more simple than that of any other method of dressing meat, the operation is quick, and the object under the hand and eye of the cook, from the moment of its being put upon the gridiron, to that of its comple- tion. The cook must prepare her fire for the operation in due time; when ready, it should be clear and bright—so free from black coal or smoke, that the chop or steak may come from the gridiron without blemish or taint of sulphur or smoke. The best fuel for a broil is composed of charcoal and coke, as little smoke is emitted 'from either, even on commencing the fire ; und when well ignited, it is entirely free from it. Coke, added to a brisk coal fire, also burns bright, and is well suited for the operation ; though with care, a proper firb may be made of good sea-coal. Certain unqualified declaimers upon a broil, hold various opinions touching the proper thickness of a steak; though at the most celebrated chop-houses, the cooks, unless expressly desired otherwise, con- fine the cut to somewhat more than half, yet less than the thickness of three quarters of an inch. This adjustment of the pro- portion of the stratum of the delicious rump, is moreover according to the statute law of the thrice learned conclave, the Beef Steak Club ; amongst whose members, from the epoch of its original founder, George Lambert, and his distinguished con- vives, to the present day, may be num- bered the most accomplished gourmands of this renowned land of good cheer. *** The choicest steak, moreover, be it hereby known, on the authority of one of the best-informed butchers in this great metropolis, who served the Beef Steak Club, the last season, is cut from the rump of a prime Norfolk-fed Scot! There is this, amongst other disadvan- tages, in cutting too thick a steak, the out- side is likely to be scorched to horny hard- ness, before the interior is half-cooked ; hence, to say nothing of the misery of those who have not the advantage of capacious mouths, the disappointed epicure must either wait until it is put again upon the gridiron, or instead of eating it rare, be constrained to eat it raw. No gridiron should be used, but those with fluted bars, which forming channels, the greater part of the fat, which otherwise falls into the fire and scorches the steak, is drawn off into a gutter at the bottom. The gridiron should be thoroughly heated, and the bars rubbed with beef or mutton suet, previously to putting on the steak, to pre- vent its being marked by, or adhering to. the bars. ° A vigilant eye should be kept upon the steak, to watch the moment for turning it, which is repeatedly done, during' the pro- cess. Broiling-tongs of convenient size should be used, with which, by a little practice, the steak may be turned with ease and despatch. The cook must have her dish thoroughly heated, to receive the broil when done, and the cover hot, to place upon it instantly. Even when she has accomplished her task, if the servant who is to take it to the table loiters on the way, the steak will have lost its zest. A steak or chop, then, should be briskly