LEM LEM 329 it into slices; take out the seeds, and chop it small; boil the liver of a fowl, and bruise it; mix these in a little gravy, then melt some butter, put in the liver, &c., and add a little of the peel, chopped fine. Lemon Sauce for boiled Fowls. — Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them into melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Lemon Sauce ( White) for boiled Fowls. —Put the peel of a small lemon, cut ex- tremely thin, into a pint of sweet, rich cream, with a sprig of lemon thyme, and ten white pepper-coms ; simmer it gently till it tastes well of the lemon ; then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, rubbed in a dessert-spoonful of flour. Boil it up, then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stilling it well. Dish the fowls, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them together: add salt according to your taste. Lemon Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound and a half of white sugar in a quart of clear i water ; take nine large lemons, wipe them j perfectly, cut each across, and squeeze the juice into the dissolved sugar; plunge the lemons into the sugared water, and press them, so as to extract not only the juice, but the oil contained in the rind. Mix the whole together, and strain it through a close hair sieve. Pour the liquid into a sorbetiere, and finish in the same manner as cream sherbet. Lemon Sweetmeats *—Take a pound of I marchpane paste, and mix it with as many yolks of eggs as mil enable you to spread | the paste with a knife ; add to it a sufficient quantity of grated lemon peel to impart the flavour required. The whole bein°- i well mixed, cut some sheets of wafer paper into such figures as your fancy may dictate, ; and spread the paste over them' about a quarter of an inch in thickness; place them ' on paper, and bake them in a moderate Oven. If you wish to glaze your sweet- j meats, boil some sugar with orange-flower water to la plume, and when they are i taken out of the oven, wash them over ' with the syrup, which dries almost imme- : diately. Lemon Syllabubs.—Take a pint of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of two lemons grated, and the juice; sugar accord- ing to taste ; let it stand some timo; mill 1 or whip it, lay the froth on a sieve; put the remainder into glasses, and lay on the ! irotli. They should be made the day be- fore they are wanted. If you should wish them to taste very strong of the lemon, you must make use of the juice of six lemons, and nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep four or five days. Lemons (Syrup of).*—Squeeze as many lemons as will yield about three quarters of a pound of juice, taking particular care that the peel of every lemon is perfectly sound, and that they are none of them in the least degree bitter. Set your juice in the cellar for four days, and then filter it through blotting-paper. Break a pound and a half of double-refined sugar into pieces about an inch square; put them into a gallon matrass, pour the lemon juice over it, close the matrass with paper, and place it in a bain-marie until the sugar is entirely dissolved ; then extinguish your fire, and let the matrass cool gradually; when cold, add two spoonsful of spirit of lemons, then bottle it, keep it well corked. Lemon Tart.—Rub six lemons well with salt, put them into water with a little salt in it for two days ; then change them every day with fresh water without salt, for a fortnight. Boil them till they are tender, and then cut them into half quarters, cor- nerwise, as thin as possible. Take half a dozen pippins, pared, cored, and quartered, and put them into a pint of water. Let them boil till they break; then put the liquor to the lemons, half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and a pound of sugar. Boil these together a quarter of an hour; then put it into a pot, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon; two spoonsful will be sufficient to give a proper flavour to your tart. Put fine, thin, puff paste into your patty-pans, which must be small and shallow. Before you put your tarts in the oven take a feather or brush and rub them over with melted butter, and then sift over them some double-refined sugar. Lemon Wafers.—Squeezethe juice of six lemons into a basin; pound and sift some double-refined sugar, and mix it with the lemon juice; put the white of one egg with it, and mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good consistence; take some sheets of wafer paper, and put one sheet of it on a pewter sheet or tin plate; put on it a spoonful of the preparation, and spread it all over the paper with a knife; cut it into twelve pieces, and put them across a stick in a hot stove, with that side the paste is on uppermost, and you will find they will curl; when they are half curled, take them off very carefully and put them up, endwise in a sieve, that they may stand