61 BEE BEE oysters and their liquor, and lemon juice; simmer this up ; garnish with pickles. Beef Steak Pie.—Take some fine rump steaks, beat them, then season them with pepper and salt according to taste. Make 3 good crust, lay in your steaks, fill your dish, then pour in as much water as will half fill the dish. Put on the crust, and bake it well. Feef Steak Pie.—Beat your steaks, flour and season with pepper and salt; when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish, with puff paste round the edges ; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. Beef Steak Pie raised.—Take rump steaks, cut the skin from the fat, beat the steaks with achopper, cut them into middling-sized pieces, pass them with a bit of fresh butter, pepper, and salt, lemon juice, and shalots chopped, and when half done, put them in a dish till cold. Blanch oysters, strain them, and preserve the liquor; raise a crust, put a layer of steaks at the bottom, some oysters upon it, and so alternately ; cover the pie, ornament, and bake it. When done, put into it a good cullis, with the oyster liquor and some catsup mixed with it, and serve it. Steaks with oysters, may be done the 1 same way, put into a deep dish, and covered i with puff paste. Beef Steak Padding.—Beat your steaks, season them, and roll them with fat between; and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in ; cover with a cloth tied close, and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. Beef Steak Pudding.—Take flower, chopped suet, some milk, a little salt, and one egg, and mix them well together. Roll out the paste, of half an inch thick, and sheet a basin or bowl with it; then trim the skin from the meat, beat the steaks well with a chopper, cut them into middling- sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, put them mto the basin with blanched oysters and slices of potatoes (or of onion), alternately; cover the top with paste, and tie a cloth over the basin. Boil the pudding (if of a middling size) two hours, and when it is to be served up, put into it a little cullis and catsup. Beef Steak Pudding, baked—Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed tlirougli a cullender; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks, prepared as above, and very well seasoned; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. Beef Steaks rolled.—Take three or four large steaks, and flat them with a cleaver. Make a farce with the flesh of a capon, some of a fillet of veal, and some gammon of bacon, both fat and lean ; add to this the fat of a loin of veal, sweetbreads, young onions, parsley, mushrooms, and truffles, the yolks of four eggs with a little cream ; season all these very well with spice and herbs, and pound them, then strew them on your slices of beef, and roll it up very handsomely, that they may be firm and of a good size; then let them stew a good while. When they are sufficiently done, take them up and drain away the fat, then slit them in two and lay them in a dish, the cut side uppermost, and serve them, either with a ragout or cullis. Beef Steak saute au Vin de Madere* •—Cut out the skin and nerves from your steaks, and cut them into escaloppes egales, beat them and trim them into the form of a round; melt some butter in a sautd pan, and lightly fry your steaks in it; when they are done of a nice light colour, arrange them on a dish in form of a crown, drain the butter from the pan, and put the liquor by ; then put a glass of Madeira in, and reduce it with a little veal glaze and a little Spanish sauce, adding a little pimento butter; when your sauce is of a nice dark colour, strain it through a sieve and serve it jwith your steaks. Beef Steaks saute with Olives.*—Prepare your steaks the same as for Steaks saute au Vin de Madere, then fry with a piece of butter or lard ; when done, dress them on a dish in form of a crown, and pour into the middle of the crown a ragout of olives. Beef Steaks, a la Servante —Cut the slices thin ; lay a down of sliced lard, then of steaks, fine herbs, and spices, and so on till you have done; add a glass of brandy, and stop the pot very well with paste to keep the steam in ; let it simmor fivo or six hours, on a very slow fire. They may be served either hot or cold. Beef Stock.—This is made from the legs, shin, and scrags of beef, or any bones that are to spare; chop them into pieces, wash them, and put them in a large pot on the fire, filled half with cold and half with hot water; it must be closely attended to when it begins to boil, in order to take off the scum; then set it on one side of the stove to boil gently