CHI CHI 162 ronsted cliicken, and fry it in olive oil, with salt, mushrooms, and sweet herbs; when of a proper colour, take out the chicken ; place it in a dish, and pour over some well reduced sauce Italienne; garnish with eggs or crusts fried in oil. Chickens u, la Mariee.—Take the hones from two small chickens, and fill them with a farce made of fat livers, parsley, shalots, basil (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, and salt. Soak them for some time in oil, then wrap them in tliin slices of bacon, veal, and ham, over that, double-buttered paper. Stew them on a slow fire till done. Take off all wrappers, and serve with nonpareil sauce. Chickens a la Marmotte.—Boil some carrots and parsnips, cut into shapes, with some small onions, in a little broth ; in the mean time cut some mushrooms and pickled cucumbers into dice, and stew them in a bit of butter, garlic, parsley, cloves, stock, salt, and pepper ; when they have boiled slowly for a little time, add a spoonful of cullis, and the carrots, &c.; boil them up together, and serve over roasted chickens. Chickens Marines*—Cut your chickens, and soak them in stock, vinegar, or ver- juice, salt, and pepper ; place them on hot ashes for half an hour. Beat three whites of eggs to a strong froth, and then dip in ench piece of chicken; flour it, aud fry them of a nice colour. Chickens Maroquin.*—Choose two fine fat chickens, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil; let them cool, and dry them thoroughly. Make a stuff- ing with the livers, "truffles, streaked ba- con, butter, salt, pepper, herbs, &c., all chopped small, unite them with die yolks of two eggs ; fill the chickens with this, and put some under the thighs and wiugs ; place slices of bacon over it, so that the stuffing may remain in its proper place. Put two large slices of bacon over that, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them. You may serve them eidier with crayfish butter, or blond. Chickens Matelote*—31anch about a dozen small white onions, and then throw them into cold water to take off the skin. Cut two carrots and a parsnip into pieces, three inches long, pare them to an equal .size; prepare the following: A small piece of butter, two pinches of flour, a Mass of white wine, the same of stock, and brown them; put the carrots, parsnip, and onions into it, with the addition of of parsley, scallions, t>vo cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, half a clove of garlic, .pepper, and salt; boil diese gently lor half an hour. Take one large, or two. i small chickens, set them on the fire a mi- nute or two, and then cut each in four; put them into die above ragout and boil for an hour. When very little sauce remains, take off the fat, and add a chopped an- chovy, and a few capers. Second way *—Cut a couple of chickens into quarters, aud put them into a stewpan lined with bacon and small onions; after they have been in a short time, add to them an eel cut in pieces, a small fish, and a dozen crayfish, with salt, pepper, bay leaves, and morels; moisten the whole with equal quantides of stock and white wine ; cover the stewpan, and let it stand over a moderate fire for three hours. Place all the pieces on a dish, and gar- nish it with crayfish and fried crusts, put alternately, and pour the sauce over it. Chickens a la St. Menehoult*—Put two chickens into a stewpan with some butter, a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, par- sley, scallion, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, and basil; stew it gently, and i let the sauce adhere to the chickens; then soak them in eggs beaten, cover them with bread crumbs, dip them into butter, bread crumbs again, and broil them. Chicken Milk*—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with an ounce of powder sugar, a little orange-flower water, and salt; mix these well up until the egg begins to whiten, then add half a pint of boiling chicken broth, stirring it very quick, and drink it as hot as possible. Chickens in a Minute.*—Cut a chicken f in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter ; add to it some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, sprinkle flour over, and shake them ; moisten it with stock or t\ a- ter, and white wine; when it has boiled, take it from the fire and put in the yolks of one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or lemon juice, Chickens a la Napolitaine.*—Take 8 cold fricassee of chickens, which must be pretty thick, and mix it with some ma- caroni, boiled in a little stock, aud drain- ed ; put to it a little butter, a ladle- ful of sauce tournee, some grated Parmesan and Gruvere cheeses, and coarse pepper; stir it well, and then place a thick la>er in a mould that has been previously lined with paste, and garnished with vermicelli; put the pieces of chicken on it, cover t ie® with the sauce and macaroni, strew bread crumbs very thickly over the whole, wasu