88 BRO BRO cooked, speedily conveyed to table, and served with despatch. It may be made either a delectable treat to the accomplished amateur of good eating, or a dish scarcely endurable to the voracious appetite of a fa- mished hunter. BRONDADE.—Take a piece of fine stockfish, let it soak for four-and-twenty hours in water to cleanse and soften ; then put it in a pot full of water on the fire, taking care to remove it when it begins to boil; melt some butter over a gentle fire, with some garlic, oil, and parsley. In the mean time, pick and cut the stockfish into small pieces, put it into the saucepan, and as it thickens, pour in a little butter or milk. Keep stirring until the fish is melted to a sort of cream. Pounded spinach may be used to make it green. BROOM Buds, to pickle.— Gather the buds before they grow yellow on the top, mix salt and water until completely melted, then put in the huds; stir them every day until they sink to the bottom, and then ' keep them closely covered. BROSE (Scotch).—This is generally made of the liquor meat has been boiled in; of which put as much in a porringer as will mix half a pint of oatmealinto the consist- ence of hasty pudding, or a little thicker. Lastly, take a little of the fat that swims on the broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it like hasty pudding. BROTH.—Put the mouse round ofbeef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover it close with a dish or coarse paste. Put a sufficient quantity of water to cover the meat, and bake it till tender. When cold, let it stand in a cool place, covered close; flavour it as you please. Brotii, Fat.—Boil part of a round and leg of beef with other meat, and take out the gravy and broth, and strain it through a napkin : then boil them a se- cond time, and take out the broth again, keeping both these sorts apart. The first will be good to put to capons, turkey- poults, veal, and other forced meats, to be served in white soups. Capon or veal broth ought to be used to soak young pigeons ior bisque; and with the broth of the bisques, a cullis may be made for soup <t la reine, or u la royale. The broth of farced meats will serve to make a cullis for the same sorts ot meat; as young turkeys, and pullets, knuckles of veal, and other sorts of meats, that ought to be farced and parboiled. The second sort of broth, is to be put into brown soups, of ducks, teal, rabbits, wood-pigeons, pheasants, &c., or of vege- i tables, roots, &c. ; and the brown ingre- dients which serve to thicken them, are to be mixed with the broth. Broth (Fish).—Take tench, carp, pike, and eels, prepare them for boiling, cut them in pieces, and put them into a kettle with I i water, salt, butter, an onion stuck with j cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it boil an hour and a half, then strain it through a napkin, and divide it into three lesser kectles. Into one of them put mush- rooms, and strain them through a sieve, ! with a cullis, a sliced lemon, and some ii fried wheaten flour. Broth (Fish).—Set water over the fire in a kettle proportioned to the quantity of broth to be made ; put in the roots of pars- ley, parsnips, and whole onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley and sorrel, and butter; let the whole be well seasoned : then put in the bones and car- casses of the fish, the flesh of which you have used for farces ; and also the tripes of them, being thoroughly cleansed, with some tails of crayfish, pounded in a mortar, and four or five spoonsful of the juice of onions. Let all these be well seasoned and boiled, then strained through a sieve ; put it back into the kettle, and keep it hot, to simmer your soups, to boil your fish, and other things. Broth (Fish).—Cutonions, carrots,and parsnips, into slices, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and set 1 them stewing withjuic&of onions. When these are brown, put them into the stew- pan, and give them two or three turns: let the whole be moistened with a clear puree; ; then put in a bunch of parsley, chives, sweet herbs, cloves, and some mushrooms. Let all these boil together for one hour; then strain them through a sieve into another kettle, and use it to simmer fish soup. Note, that carp is the best fish to make fish broth. Broth Jellu.—Take a joint of mutton, a capon, a fillet of veal, and three quarts of water; put these into an earthen pan, and boil them over a gentle fire till reduced to half; then squeeze all together, and strain the liquor through a napkin. Broth (Meagre), for Soup uith Herbs.—* Set on a kettle of water, put in two or three crusts of bread, and all sorts ot good herbs; season with salt; put in butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it tor an hour and a half: then strain it through s sieve, or napkin. 1 his will servo to makfl