MUS MUS 353 i basil, the whole made lukewarm; then take out the muscles, dry and dip them in a batter made of flour, white wine, a spoon- ful of oil and salt, and fry them. Muscle Ketchup. — Take fine fresh muscles, wash them in their own liquor, pound them in a marble mortar, to a pint i of muscles and a pint of sherry; then give them a boil up, add one ounce of salt, two : drachms of mace well pounded, and one i ounce of Cayenne ; give the whole one i boil, skim it, and rub it through a sieve ; ■ let it stand to cool, and when cold put it i into bottles ; cork it carefully, and seal it (down. Muscles a la Minute *—Clean and take away the shells as directed for la Poulette, I draw off all the water except what is ne- i cessary to cook them in, add a little butter and shred parsley, shake them up a minute i or two, and then serve with a squeeze of ) lemon. Muscles a la Poulette *—The muscles i being thoroughly washed, put them into a pan without any water, and steam them lightly over a brisk fire; as they open, remove the shells, strain the liquor from them through a silk sieve. Put a piece of butter in the saucepan, and some shred scal- lions, give them a few turns on file fire, then add a little parsley, and afterwards a dessert spoonful of flour; mix this well with the butter, and pour in the liquor . from the muscles, season with pepper and ; nutmeg; give the whole a few boils, thicken it with two or three yolks of eggs, ' put in the muscles, make them quite hot, ' but do not let them boil. Dish them, and i squeeze lemon juice over them. Muscles (Ragout of).—Open them, l melt a little butter in a stewpan, fry the | muscles a minute with a little chopped parsley, shake a little flour over them, put in a little cream, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and : lemon juice; boil them up. If you wish them to be brown, instead of cream you should put good gravy, i Muscles in Soup.*—Take the liquor that flows from the muscles when they open over the fire, and strain it through a fine napkin,put itinto some good stock, andbeat up the yolks of six eggs, and add to it ; thicken over the fire, and mix the whole with some consomme soup when ready to serve, arranging the muscles round the dish. Muscles (Tourte of).—Line a dish with puff-paste, put at the bottom a layer of good farce, then (having washed the muscles well) put them into a saucepan, take away the shells as they open, leave in the fish, and let them stew in their own liquor with butter, shalots, parsley, nut- meg, pepper, and salt; lay them on the farce, cover and bake the tourte, and serve with bechamel. MUSHROOMS (to choose.)—The mush- rooms proper to be used in cookery grow* in the open pasture land, for those that grow near or under trees are poisonous. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of around form, on a little stalk. They grow very rapidly, and the upper part and stalk are white. As they increase in size, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edge and middle, and whether they have a pleasant smell. Those which are poisonous have a yellow skin, and the under part has not the clear flesh colour of the real mushroom; besides which, they smell rank and disagreeable, and the fur is white or yellow. Mushrooms a la Bourgeois.*—Pick, trim, and cut the mushrooms in halves; put some slices of streaky bacon into a stew- pan, and set it on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, then add the mushrooms, parsley, scallions, shalots (chopped), pep- per, a pinch of flour, a little stock and white wine ; stew the whole gently, and when reduced to a thick sauce, pour it on fried bread, and serve with vinegar or lemon juice. Mushrooms (Broiled.).— Choose the largest sort; pepper and salt them well, put butter on, lay them on a small grid- iron with the stalk upwards, broil them rather quick, and serve them with good gravy. Mushrooms en Cannellon.—Chop some mushrooms into dice, put them into a stewpan, with sliced parsley, scallions, shalots, and some butter; when a little browned, add stock, pepper, and salt; let it simmer till the mushrooms are done, and the sauce pretty thick, then put in the yolks of three eggs, and a little lemon juice; set it hy to cool; in the meantime roll some paste very thin, cut it in pieces, in each of which put some of the above moisten the edges, and roll them up into the form of short sausages, flour and frv them. J Mushrooms a la Creme.—Choose those 2 A