BIS cc BIS green lemon grated; beat tliem up together for a quarter of an hour: whisk the whites of eio-ht eggs to a froth and mix them with °the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take them from the mould while hot, and ice them in the following manner : Beat up half the white of an egg nnd two spoonsful of powder sugar with a wooden spoon, add occasionally a few drops of lemon juice; when it becomes quite white lay it over the biscuits; and place them in the oven a minute to dry, Biscuits (Prop).—Pound and sift a pound of fine sugar, take the yolks of seven and the whites of ten eggs and beat well separately for an hour. Dry and sift a pound of fine flour, and when cold mix it with the eggs and sugar, beat all together for a quarter of an hour, drop upon paper, sift sugar over, and bake them. Biscuit Drops.—Beat a pound of sugar, the yolks of four, and whites of two eggs, with a little white wine; then put in a pound of flour, and a few seeds, mix all well together. Butter a paper, lay your hatter on in spoonsful, ice them with fine sugar, and set them in a gentle oven. Biscuits (Hard).—Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk ns will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rollingpin, and work it very smooth. Roll it very thin, and cut into biscuits, prick and bake for about six minutes. . . » Biscuits (Iced).—Beat up the whites o eight, and the yolks of six eggs, with a pound of fine powdered sugar, for one hour. Have ready fourteen ounces of well-dried sifted flour; when the oven is ready nnd your plates buttered, mix the flour as quick as possible with the eggs, Sec and lay the biscuits on the plates; you may add a little musk nnd ambergris. Bake in a quick oven. Biscuit Ice Cream.—Break six eggs into a stewpan, and beat them with a wooden spoon; add a pint of cream, the peel of a lemon, two gills of syrup and a little spice ; boil it till it begins to thicken, Stirring constantly; crumble some Naples and ratafia biscuits into it, and pass the whole through a sieve, nnd put it into mould, which place in ice as directed. SBiscuit iced d la Jlomle.*—Make a Savoy biscuit of nine eggs, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and five °“ncf? potatoe flour, with the addition of a little pulverized iris and orange flower ; bake it in an octagon mould, and let it cool. Make an icing with ten ounces of sugar, nnd one and a half whites of eggs ; mix them together with a wooden or silver spoon, putting in a few drops of lemon juice occasionally; when very white, divide it into two equnl parts, to one of which add a little carmine to make it of a delicate rose-colour; with these two icings, glaze alternately each angle of the biscuit very carefully ; keep it thin and even ; smooth it with the blade of a knife. Biscuit d Vltalienne—Bake a biscuit, made like iced biscuit, in a plain, round mould; cut it across, in slices an inch thick; pour on each slice a spoonful of true maraschino, and when they have imbibed this, place them in their proper form, and mask the whole, either with white of egg and sugar, as biscuit with sweetmeats, or with apricot marmalade, on which strew pounded macaroons. Biscuits (Italian 1 la ter).—R hiskup six eo-o-s, and an equal weight of powder sucar, for half an hour. Take six more e°gs and their weight of flour, and mix all together, nnd lay this mixture on paper, in calces the eighth of an inch thick, and about two inches diameter; lay them quite flat, and do not let them touch, llie oven should be hot ; five minutes will bake them. When cold, wet the under side of the paper, and they will then remove easily. ... Biscuits (Jessamine). —The Spanish j essa- mine is the best, but if not to be procured, take English jessamine flowers, clean picked from the stalk ; beat them well in a marble mortar, and put to them the whites of eggs and powdered sugar, and lav sugar under them in a dish, or on papers; cover them with sugar, and bake them in a gentle oven. _ , Biscuits (Judge's). — Break six eggs into a basin, and whisk them well for five minutes, add half a pound of powder sugar, and whisk again for ten minutes longer; put some caraway seeds and half a P°un of dry sifted flour; mix them all together with a wooden spoon. Drop them on paper about the size of a crown piece, and {hick in the middle ; sift sugar over and bake them in a brick oven. I alee them off the paper while hot.. _ , e • Biscuits (hhhgh).-Puthalfaimundof butter into a basin and work “ well with a wooden spoon; break six eggs mid whisk them well, add half a pound of powder sugar, and whisk ten minutes