207 cue cue ounces of butter; then put the yolks of two eggs into some cream, and mix the whole into a smooth paste; roll it out thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. Crust (Short) not sweet, but rich.— Mix into a stiffish paste, using as little water as possible, six ounces of butter, with eight ounces of fine flour (rubbing- the butter well into the flour, before mix- ing it with the water), beat it well, and roll it thin. This crust is proper as well as the above, for tarts of fresh or pre- served fruits. Let it bake in a moderate oven. Crust for Venison Pasty.—Work into a paste with warm water two pounds and a half of butter, a peck of fine flour, and four eggs ; work it smooth, and to a good consistence. The paste should be put round the inside, but not at the bottom of the dish ; let the cover be tolerably thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. CUCUMBERS (Blanquelte of).—Pare and stew your cucumbers in a little sauce I tournee and sugar ; then drain them. Re- duce the liquor, and thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, and when wanted for table, put in the cucumbers. ; Cucumbers a la Bourgeoise.—Prepare and dish your cucumbers as a la creme; in I the mean time shred three or four onions very fine, and fry them in butter, till brown ; when so, and drained off from the butter, put them into a stewpan to simmer by the side of the stove, with four table- | spoonsful of consommd, and the same of sauce tournee; when reduced to half the thickness, stir in a bit of butter, and one squeeze of lemon juice ; salt, if required; pour this very hot over the cucumbers. . Cucumber with Cream*—Peel and cut into squares some small cucumbers, then put them into salt and water, first letting it boil up; when the cucumber becomes soft to the touch, take them out of the salt and water, and put them into cold water ; let them drain in a cloth, make a thick- sauce a la creme ; put the cucumbers into it, and serve. Cucumbers and Cream*—Cut the cu- ^ie samB as for Cucumber Sauce, and blanch them in salt and water ; when they are tender, let them drain on a cloth ull no water remains. Put a quarter of a pound of butter, three tea-spoonsful of flour, Si‘lt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; mix the ivhole together, and then add half a glass o cream, set them on the fire and let them 0,1 UP °nce; if too thick, add more cream; put in the cucumbers, and keep it hot till wanted : it must not boil. Cucumbers and Cream.*—Your cucum- bers being pared, and the seeds taken out, out them into dice, blanch, and then put them into a saucepan with a little melted butter, parsley, and scallions, shred small, salt, pepper, morels, and good broth; let them stew for some time over a gentle fire. When done, add the yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, and a small piece of butter. To the sauce may be added a little verjuice, if you think proper. Cucumbers a la Creme*—Pare and cut your cucumbers iu small round or oval pieces, keeping them all as near of a size as you well can ; throw them into boilino- water with a little salt in it; when they are soft, take them from the hot, and put them into cold water, and then drain them in a cloth; make a cream sauce, rather thick, into which put the cucumbers, and serve them. Cucumbers a la Creme. — Take four straight rough-coated cucumbers, taste each that it is not bitter; cut them in half, then in quarters, and with a sharp knife cut out the seeds, and pare off the skin, tossing them in water as you do them • have ready some good clarified butter, into which (when well drained from the water) put in your cucumbers; let them fry (turn- ing them at times) till of a fine light colour, then lay them on a sieve to drain them from the butter; when free from fat, lay them in a stewpan to stew gently, with consomme enough to cover them, a very little sugar and salt, and a round paper over the whole; when stewed nearly dry, lay them again on a sieve, then place them neatly on the dish, and pour over them some good cream sauce, and thicken with the yolk of one egg with a little cream, and serve very hot. Cucumbers (Dried).-—Take some pre- served cucumbers, wash all the syrup from them, put them on sieves to drain, then into a stove, one day is enough for them to dry; when dry, take them out and paper a box, and put them in, and lay a paper between every layer of cucumbers. Cucumbers (Essence of). — Take the parings from your cucumbers, and make a yurde of them with a little butter, which must be drained off as soon sis melted, and the puree diluted with the sauce tournie, in which the cucumbers have been dressed, blanquette (they being put to drain). When the j>ur(e is very thick, mix with it four spoonsful of veloutd, with a little