CRE CRE 198 beat them up with a rod till they rise; take it off with a spoon as it rises: lay it in a pot or glass, and then serve. X — o ' CnEAM du Commissuire.*—Bone, and pound the meat of a roasted partridge, moistening it with a little consomme or veal gravy; then mix with it the yolks of six eggs, salt, pepper, and spice, in powder; rub the whole through a sieve into a dish, and coolc it in the bain-marie. Cream (Crackling).— Beat up the yolks of as many eggs as will he sufficient for the quantity of cream you wish to make, pouring in milk as you beat them; then put in some rasped sugar and lemon peel; set the dish upon a furnace, and keep continually stirring till the cream begins to be made; slacken your fire; stir the cream without intermission, turn- ing it to the other side of the dish, till very little or none remains at the bottom, and that a border may be made round them, taking great care that it is not burnt. When it is ready, heat the fire-shovel red hot, and give it a fine colour; and with the point of a knife loosen the whole bor- der, that it may remain entire. Then let it be put again into the same dish, and let it be dried in the oven, that very little may be left in the dish, and it will orackle in the mouth. Cream (Croquante).*—Take a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, the peel of a lemon grated, orange-flower water, four pounded macaroons; boil these until re- duced to half; then add two ounces of powder sugar ; put into another saucepan the yolks of eight eggs, on which pour the cream, a little at a time ; put it on the fire, and stir it constantly until the cream is set; then spread it on a baking-tin, keeping it about the thickness of a crown piece ; place the tin on a trivet over the fire, and pass a salamander over the surface of the cream to dry it. When that is done, cut your cream into pieces of whatever form you may think proper ; lay them on a dish, and put them in the oven till they crisp. Serve either hot or cold. Cream (Snow).—Put to a quart of cream flie whites of three eggs well beaten, lour spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to youi , taste, and a bit of lemon peel; whip it to a froth; remove the peel and serve in a dish. Cream (CurdY—-Take a pint cream ; boil it with a little mace, cinnamon, and rosewater, to make it sweet; when it is as cold ns new milk, put in about halt a spoonful of good rennet, and when it curds, serve it in tv cream dish. Cream (Custard).—Grate extremely fine the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it into a quart of cream, with half a pound of fresh butter, and the yolks of a dozen eggs ; put to them as much sugar as you please, and let it tliicken over the fire; ; make the custards shallow, and when they have stood half an hour in a slow oven, grate some loaf sugar over them, and serve. Cream (Devonshire, or Scalded).—If in the winter, the milk should stand for four-, and-twenty hours but if in the summer, , it should stand only for twelve; then the milk-pan should be placed upon a hot hearth, provided ymu have one, if not, it should be placed in a wide brass kettle of water, large enough to receive the pan; it must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no account boil, or there will be a skim instead of cream upon the milk. \ ou will know when done enough, by the un- dulations on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the size oi the t bottom. The time required to scald cream, depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire; the slower the better. Remove the pan into the dairy- when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. Cream d I’Eau.*—Beat four eggs with a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, shred small, the juice of the same, and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar. W hen well beaten, pass it two or three times through a napkin ; then put it in a dish, oyer a gentle fire, stirring till it thickens; dish it hot, but it must be served cold. Cream (an excellent).—II hip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon peel, a squeeze of lemon juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant to the taste; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and the next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff- paste biscuits, made in tin shapes, the length of a finger, and about two thick; over which should bo strewed sugar, or a little glaze, with isinglass. The edges of the dish may be lined with macaroons. Cream of Floioers.*—Take roses, violets, jessamine, pinks, and orange pound them, adding a little warm mi ' • press them in a clean cloth, and mix t ie with a pint of well-boiled cream : add toe yolks of six eggs, and sugar; strain, put it into a dish; then place the dish o hot ashes; cover and lay more coals on the