CAL CAL 114 some slices of bacon, part of a calf’s foot, a bunch of parsley, onions, thyme, and buy leaves, salt, pepper, and spices, an onion Btuck with cloves, and half a glass of wine. Cover the stewpan perfectly close. When it begins to boil, cover the fire with hot ashes, and let the liver continue stewing gently by it for three or four hours. Strain off the fat, and strain the sauce. Serve cold, in its own jelly. Calf’s Liver a la Brochette*—Cut a calf’s liver into slices, about the size of a crown piece, cut some bacon in the same .manner; place them alternately (begin- ning with the bacon) on skewers, seven or eight inches long. Dip them into hot broth or soup ; sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and broil them of a gold colour. Calf’s Liver broiled.—Slice it, season 'with pepperand salt, and broil nicely: rub a •bitof cold butter onit, andservehotand hot. Calf’s Liver Cuke*—Mince and pound together a calf’s liver, half a pound of Buet, and half a pound of bacon ; then mis them with some chopped onions and mush- rooms, tossed up in butter, the yolks of six eggs, the whites well whisked, salt, .pepper, and a glass of brandy. Line an iron saucepan with slices of bacon, place the above preparation, and some sliced •truffles on them, and cover the whole with .bacon ; put the saucepan on a gentle fire, with ashes on the lid. When done, take it off, let it cool in the saucepan. Dip it in boiling water, loosen the cake, turn, it •on a dish, and remove the bacon from it; sprinkle it with raspings, and serve it. Calf’s Liver Cake cold.* — Pound a •calf’s liver, an equal quantity of bacon, and a fourth part of boiled ham; pass them through a quenelles sieve, into a pan with a cold boiled calf’s udder, an equal pro- portion of tongue a Vicariate, truffles, and mushrooms, cut into dice : mix with them ei°Lt eggs, a glass of brandy, and season the whole with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Finish your cake os above, and bake it four hours in a moderate oven. Let it cool before you turn it out; remove the bacon, trim and glaze tho cake with veal jolly ; with which garnish your cake. Calf’s Liver Cake hot.*—Pound a calf’s liver, and an equal quantity of calf s udder, as above, put them into a pan ; cut some onion into dice, scald and toss it up in a little butter and consomme, and when cold, mix it with tho liver, udder, mushrooms, truffles, and more udder cut in dice; stir in ei^ht eggs, one at a time; the whole being well mixed, put it into a plain round mould, well buttered, cover it with a round I piece of buttered paper, and let it stand in a bain-marie with hot ashes under and over, for two hours. When ready to serve, turn it on the dish for table, drain away the water, glaze it. Serve it hot, with a pepper sauce. Calf’s Liver en Cripine*—Cut two large onions into dice, and toss them over the fire with a bit of butter, mince a calf’s liver, and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; then put them into a mortar, with the onions, some dried bread crumbs, half a pint of milk, salt, pepper, mush- room, four yolks of eggs, and four whites, whipped; pound these together well. Place slices of bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, and over them a pig’s caul, previously soaked in cold water, squeezed quite dry with the hand; put all the pounded ma- terials in this, wet the edges with white of egg to make them unite ; place a sheet of paper over it, and cover the pan close ; stew it gently in hot cinders for half an hour, then drain the fat from it, wipe the caul carefully with a linen cloth, and then II place it in 'your dish : serve with clear sauce, adding to it a little veijuice. Calf’s Liver a la Pique*—Lard a fine calf’s liver, and soak it in white wine for a day. Line a stewpan with thin slices of bacon and beef; put in salt, pepper, fine herbs, spices, sliced onions, carrots, par- snips, scallions, parsley chopped; put the liver on this, and cover it in the same man- ner ; moisten it with stock, aud two glasses of white wine; you may add slices of le- mon, stew it gently, with fire above and below. When done, serve with it gher- kins, a ragout of cucumbers, or endive. Calf’s Liver Haslets.—Cut the liver in prettv large pieces, marinate it with butter, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, chopped; leave it some time over a very slow fire, then roll several pieces in veal caul, with as much sauce as possible: tie it upon a large skewer, with thin slices of bacon round, and roast. Serve it with any re- lishing sauce. Calf’s Liver a I’ltaliemw.*—Cut a calf S liver in thin slices, with parsley, scallions, mushrooms, half a clove ot garlic, two 1 slinlots, all chopped fine, half a bay leaf, thyme, and basil pounded. Put a layer ot th6 liver at the bottom of a stewpan, then salt, pepper, oil, and some of the above sea soiling, then another laver o* liver, season as before, and so on till you have usee a vour liver. Stow it for about an hour, and then take it out with a skimmer;