VIN 522 VIN cally. In five days’ time, distil it in the bain-marie alembic, and draw from the above quantity five quarts of liqueur. Dissolve seven pounds of sugar in a gal- lon of pure river water; add this syrup to the liqueur, filter, and bottle it. VINEGAR. — This is an acid liquor, prepared by a second fermentation from various liquors, such as wine, cyder, perry, beer, mead, skimmed milk, &c. But the most common method of making it, in England, is from malt, and the pro- cess is as follows : Infuse a quantity of malt in hot water for an hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. As soon as the infusion is sufficiently cold, put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, aud leave it to ferment for four or five days ; after which put the liquor into barrels, in a room heated with stoves, so that a mode- rate warmth maybe kept up for six weeks, and the fermentation continue regularly. By the end of that time the whole will he completely soured, and must now he ■changed into other barrels; lay a tile on the hungholes to keep out the wet, but not so close as to prevent a free circulation of air, and then place them in the open air for four or five months, according as the weather is warm or otherwise ; during the whole of this period, the fermentation proceeds, and at the end, the vinegar is nearly done. The next operation is this : the vinegar is poured into large vessels, called rape-tuns, to which there are false bottoms covered with rape, that is, the refuse of raisins, or other fruit, from which wine has been made ; fill one of these tuns entirely with the vinegar, and another ■about three fourths full, and every day take a portion of the liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into the other, ■until the vinegar is in a fit state to he drawn off ; when it must be closely bar- relled. Vinegar may also be made in much smaller quantities for domestic purposes ; the materials of various kinds, with the addition of sugar ; raisins, currants, and •ripe gooseberries, however, are the prin- cipal ; sometimes it is made from brown sugar, and water alone. I he proportions are the same as those necessary for strong wine ; make the barrel about three fourths full, add a toast covered with yeast, put an tlio bung very loosely, and place the barrel where it will be exposed to the sun, or, if it be winter, near the fire. 1 he fer- mentation should be moderate and con- stant till the vinegar is complete; then draw it off' clear, give it a boil, and when quite cold, strain and bottle it. Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mix- ing with the latter its own flowers, or ferment, and its tartar reduced to pow- der, and put into a vinegar or any other cask ; if the latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, full of the steam from vinegar; in either case, the liquor should be stirred frequently ; the second fermen- tation will speedily commence ; it will become heated, and turn acid by degrees, and in a short time the vinegar will he produced. It is commonly supposed that wine which has become acid, will produce ex- cellent vinegar; this, however, is a mis- taken idea, for the stronger and better the quality of the wine, the stronger and bet- ter will he the vinegar. The French have several methods of making vinegar, which are subjoined. The vinegar-makers of Orleans pour the wine, of which they intend to make their vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms of which are close gratings of lime twigs ; these serve to clarify the wine, as the lees adhering to the twigs, leave the li- quor perfectly clear. 1 hey then procure a number of casks, each containing a hun- dred gallons, either new or which have previously contained vinegar; these are set upright, and in the top of every one is bored a hole, two inches in diameter, these are kept constantly open; the last- mentioned casks are called Mothers; pour into all of them twenty-five gallons of boiling vinegar; to this, in a week’s time, add three gallons of wine, drawn lrom the firstmentioned casks; continue to add the wine, at intervals of a week, until the Mothers are quite full; then leave them for a fortnight, at the end of which period they generally draw7 oft the vinegar, taking care always to leave the Mothers halt full, at least, and then to fill them with wine as before. The method of proving when the vinegar is fit for use, is by plunging a stave into it; if on taking it out a white line is perceptible on the end of it, the vinegar is quite ready. The place where the casks are kept should be very airy, and in the winter time, by means of stoves, the temperature should be raised to eigh- teen degrees of Reaumur- Paris vinegar varies from the above, and the process is very simple. A large quan- tity of wine lees is put into coarse sac. s, and laid in tubs, which are placed one upon another to form a kind ot press; J