PIE PIIE 415 some rice well stewed in good stock, with a small quantity of the fat, a little salt, and a bit of lean bam ; when well stewed, so that no liquid remains, lay it neatly in the dish, and the pheasants upon it, and, when you serve, pour over the whole a good bechamelle sauce. Pheasant (Fillets of) Bigarree*—Cut six fillets from three young pheasants, take six smaller ones, remove the skin from the former, beat them with the handle of the knife, and trim them, and having dissolved some butter in a tossing pan, put three of them in it, and bread the three others, sea- son with salt and pepper; then lard three of the small fillets as usual, and three with truffles, lay them on a baking pan with a little glaze and melted butter, and cover with a piece of buttered paper. Then take the legs of three cold roast pheasants, and having removed the skin, sinews, and bones, mince the meat very fine, and put it into a covered saucepan ; make a fume of the remainder of the pheasant; when done, strain, and reduce it, add three spoonsful of espagnole travaillie, and re- duce the whole to a demi-glaze; all your materials being thus prepared, fry three fillets lightly, and broil those which are breaded ; both sides being nicely done, dish them en couronne, with tongue a Vicariate, cut in hearts; put the mince, some chopped truffles, and a piece of butter into the sauce, make it quite hot, (without boiling}, and pour it into the centre of the couronne; fry the small fillets lightly, and place them over the mince, also en couronne, and serve. Pheasant (Fillets of) a la Ste. Mini- hould.*—Having seasoned your fillets with salt and pepper, dip them in melted butter, and then in bread crumbs; take care that they are well covered with the latter, broil them slowly, and serve with an Italienne, or tomata sauce. Pheasant (Fillets of) with Truffles.*— Having larded and dressed the filiets a la chevalier (see that article), take the nerve from the small fillets, make half a dozen incisions m each, into which put a piece of truffle, having cut some in thin round slices, and divided them again into halves • all the small fillets being'thus garnished! 5 form them into semi-circles, and lay them! with a little salt and pepper, between two I slices of bacon, set them on a stove and • fry them lightly; drain your large fillets, 1; glaze, and place them on a dish over a sauti of truffles ; lay the small fillets in the D centre, and serve. Pheasant (Fillets f) Sautes* — Take eight fillets, trim and put them into a fry- ing pan with a little salt and pepper, put the small fillets in also; pour over them three quarters of a pound of melted butter; set the pan on a brisk fire, and do them on both sides ; two or three minutes is suffi- cient to do them. Dish them alternately with fried bread, en couronne, the small fillets in the centre; serve with espagnole mixed with a fumet of game. Pheasant Legs en Bullotine.* — Take as many pheasant legs as you may want, cut as much skin with them as you possi- bly can; bone them completely, lay them on a cloth, season them with salt, pepper, and spices ; spread over each a little of the same kind of farce as you use for pheasant Galantine, draw the skin over, and sew them up ; place them in a stewpan between slices of bacon, with some good stock, half a bottle of white wine, a carrot, an onion, olie clove, a bay leaf, garlic, salt, and pep- per ; set the pan on the fire for about as hour; then take out the legs, lay them between two dishes, with a weight over; when cold, trim and stick seven or eight pieces of truffles in the upper side of each, heat them in a demi-glace, and dish them, en couronne, with a. puree of mushrooms in the middle. Pheasant Legs with Puree of Lentils.* Cut the legs from the birds with as much of the skin as you can ; take out the bones, in the place of which put in a little farce made of bacon pounded, and mixed with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; draw the skin over, and sew it up ; put the hws into a stewpan between slices of bacon • add two carrots, four sliced onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, some slices of veal, and a ladleful of stock; simmer them for an liour and a half; then drain them, take oft the thread, dish them, alternately with fried bread en couronne, with a puree of lentils in the centre. I 1CKLE (for Tongues).*—To four gal- lons of water, add two pounds and a half of treacle, eight pounds of salt, two oun- ces of saltpetre ; boil it, and skim it until clear, sprinkle salt over the tongue, and let it stand two days, wipe it clean before you put it into the pickle, which must be quite cold ; boil the pickle every two or threo months, adding two or three handsful of salt, skimming it well. Half the quantity is sufficient for two tongues. PIE ( Anglo-Franfais).*—Take a deep dish, line the edge with puff-paste like a