MUT 364 MUT pans with good puff paste; have ready an emincee made as follows : Take the lean of part of a loin of mutton and a little of the fat, mince it fine, put it into a stew- pan with a small piece of butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and shalot, stir it about two minutes over the fire, when cold, put some into each patty-pan and cover them over with puff paste, brush them over with egg, bake them, but not too much, take the top crust off, pour in a little hot espagnole sauce seasoned with a little lemon juice, mix it well with the meat, put on the cover and serve them hot in a napkin. Mutton Pies.—Raise some small pies with paste for raised pies, decorate them, cut the lean part of a loin of mutton in thin slices, and kidneys also ; season them well with pepper, salt, and chopped pars- ley, and a very little onion, all tossed up in some clarified butter; place the meat neatly in the pie-cases, put on a puff paste cover, brush them all over with egg, bake for an hour, pour in some good hot gravy and serve them hot. Mutton Pie.—Take off the meat from part of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, and season with pepper and salt. Put a layer of chops in a deep dish, and upon them some slices of peeled potatoes, and some thin slices of onion ; put the remain- ing chops over, cover with puff paste, bake it, and add some cullis. The chops may be passed with sweet herbs, &c., and when cold, put into small or large raised crusts, with potatoes, and cullis added when baked. Mutton (Raised) Pie Male.—Take the best part of a leg of mutton, and mince with any sort of poultry, meat, or game, you may find convenient; also mince half a pound of beef suet, some ham, fat bacon, truffles, pistachio nuts, four or five yolks of hard eggs ; mix with these all sorts of spices, sweet herbs, and two glasses of brandy; make a good raised crust, into which put the above ; cover, and bake the pie in a moderate oven five or six hours. Serve it cold. Mutton (Polpeties of).*—Take the lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare off the skin, and mince the meat with a little grated bacon and calfs udder; sea- son with salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms and parsley, shred small; unite them together with the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, and bread them twice. Flatten these balls a little, and fry them in clarified butter; I when done, drain and place them on the dish. Serve them with tomata sauce or demi glaze. Mutton Pudding. — Cut some slices < from a leg of mutton that has been under: done, and put them into a basin lined with -1 a nice suet crust. Season them with pep- • per, salt, and finely-shred onion or shalot. i Mutton Pudding.-—-Put a layer of steaks s | at the bottom of a dish, and season with . i salt, pepper, and a bit of onion; then pour r a batter of potatoes, boiled and press it ' through a cullender, and mixed with milk ; and an egg, over them ; then put another layer of steaks and more batter, and bake • | it. Mutton Rolls en Gratin.—Cut a neck : or leg of mutton into slices about the1 thickness of a crown piece, lay them se- • | parately on a dish, covered with chopped 1 parsley, shalots, scallions, and mushrooms;: season them with salt, pepper, and nut- • meg, and pour a sufficient quantity of oil I over to cover them. When they have - laid in this an hour, have some good fowl or veal farce ; put a piece about the size 1 of a walnut between each two slices of mutton, tie them together and braise the * I whole ; when about half done, add a glass ; \ of white wine. Take the crumb from as many small 11 rolls as you have parcels of mutton, which | untie and put into the crusts ; take some j farce made of poultry, livers, grated ba- « con, pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs ; put a layer of it on a dish for table (one that: | will bear the fire), place the rolls on it, J and set it on the fire to make the gratin. 1 When ready for table, pour some cullis I over the rolls, and serve them with a clear I sauce and lemon juice. Mutton Rumps a la Braise.—Take six I mutton rumps, and boil them for a quarter I of an hour; then take them out and cut I them in two, and put them into a stewpan I with half a pint of good gravy, a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a little Cayenne pepper, and salt; cover them close, and stew till they are tender; I then take out the onion, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it up till it is smooth, taking care that it is not too thick; put in the rumps, give them a toss or two, and dish them up hot. Garnish with horseradish and beet root. Mutton Rumps (Entree oj).—Clean the i rumps, and braise them till nearly done , then fry slips of bread the same breadth