STO 483 ing lard, and sent to table with powder STR sugar over. Spinach Tart* — lake some spinach, clean it thoroughly, as it is apt to be gritty, pick and scald it, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with salt and nutmeg, blix the spinach with frangipane, and finish the tart like that of Jr aiigipane. Spinach Tart.—Scald the spinach in boiling water, drain it well, and then chop it; stew it in butter and cream, with a little salt, sugar, a few small bits of dried comfit citron, and a few drops of oran»e- flower water ; put it into a dish lined with the very best puff paste. Spinach Toasts.—Boil some spinach for a quarter of an hour; then squeeze out all the water, chop it small, and put it into a mortar, with three or four spoonsful of apple marmalade, the yolks of four hard- boiled, and three raw eggs, two biscuits soaked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; pound all these together to a paste, put it into a dish, and mix with it a few dry currants, and three or four spoonsful of melted butter. Cut some slices of bread ball an inch thick, four inches long, and two broad ; toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, &c. over them, to the tbick- ness of half an inch, wash each over with white of egg; place the toasts on a baking- tin (well buttered) and bake them for half an hour. When done, grate nutmeg, and over them, and serve. ol KA16. Sprats are chosen bv the same rules as herrings, and are dressed in sfoArr16* (See Heiuungs0 blOCK/or Brown or White Fish Soups. Taxe a pound of scale, five flounders, and tn o pounds of eels; cut them in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as much water sLck wiHer,them’ a 1!ttle mace’ an 01110,1 stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and salt Stock for Gravy Soup or Gravy— Cut a knuckle of veal into slices, slide also a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of gammon of bacon; put these into a stew- pan, with three scraped carrots, a couple of onions, a couple 0f turnips, two headsof celery, and two quarts of water Lot tha meat stew til] quite tender, but it must not be brown When thus prepared it W1 5 vy • n brown gravy. it mud k first coloured in the usual manner. ^ Stock-fish a la Gascogne.*—Put the dried cod (alter it has been prepared, and pulled into flakes) into a stewpan, with equal quantities of sweet oil and fresh butter, pepper, garlic, and salt; place the stew- pan on a stove, stirring constantly, until the butter and oil are thoroughly incor- porated ; as soon as that is the case, it should be eaten, because if it becomes cool, it turns immediately. Stock-fish a la Provenfale.*—Prepare a dried cod, boil, bone, and cut it in pieces. Melt some butter, rolled in flour, iii a stew- pan, and put to it parsley, scallions, garlic, a glass of cream, the same of oil, amf some Seville orange peel; as soon as this is well flavoured, putin your fish, and toss it up for some time; the longer this operation is performed, the better the dish will be SI RAWJ3ERRY (Compote of).—This is made in the same manneras raspberries, only that the strawberries do not require being mixed with any other fruit. Strawberrv Conserve* — Take some very fresh strawberries, pick, and crush them through a tammy. For every des- sert-spoonful of juice, allow six ounces of sugar ; boil this to fort perle, take it off the fire, and pour in the juice ; stir them 0ether with a silver spoon, until the con- serve begins to whiten and dry, then put it into moulds or paper cases. If the con serve be too white, add a little carmine to tile syrup. Strawberry Cream.—Put six ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, pulp it through a sieve; add to it the juice of !i lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a dish juice of lemon and when no more froth will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into drained! plaC° tbe froth uPon well STRAWBERRy Ice Cream. - Take a pint of strawberries, pick them from the stalks, them ^rougli a sieve, with a der 1 n SP00n > a<^ four ounces of pow- freezde.SU8:ar’ S Pint of creara> »nd wMTflAWBEnnY differs.— Make a paste i flour, a spoonful of sweet oil, chon- I»h lemon peel, whites of egg beaten un uud a sufficient quantity of white winei’ e it pretty soft, and just ready to drop ln .“S r; ; m,X som.e "rgT strawberries the1Vizenofda°nut^gI°in^tjj^jJ*'!r^.’ .ah°ut them Q0n°’ t!'ke ^em ou^carefMly^draia sugar. °n n S'UVe’ and &laze them with 2 r 2