321 LAR LAR add red wine, salt, pepper, a bit of sugar about the size of an almond, and some fried bread ; finish the dressing, and serve them in their gravy. Lampreys (Stewed).—Clean the fish very carefully, then remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season with a few cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice ; put it into a small stewpan, with very strong beef gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry; cover it close, and let it stew till tender; then take out the lamprey and keep hot; while you ; boil up the liquor with two or three an- ! chovies chopped, and some flour and butter, ) strain tbe gravy through a sieve ; add lemon juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horseradish. LAPWINGS.—They should be roasted and served in the same manner as wild- *duck. LARD (Hog’s).—The lard should be carefully melted in a jar, put into a kettle of water, and boiled ; run it into bladders that have been particularly well cleaned. It is best to have the bladders small, as the lard will keep better, for, after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. This being a very useful article in frying fish, it should be prepared with great care. Mixed with butter, it makes a fine crust. LARKS.—These delicate little birds are in high season in November. When they are thoroughly picked, gutted, and cleansed, truss them; do them over with the yolk of egg, and then roll them in bread- crumbs ; spit them on a lark spit, and fasten that on to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minutes will be sufficient time to : roast them in before a quick fire ; whilst they are roasting, baste them with fresh butter, and sprinkle them with bread crumbs till they are well covered with them. Fry some grated bread in butter, set it to drain before the fire, that it may harden. Serve the crumbs in the dish under the larks, and garnish with slices of lemon. La n ks. Roast them, larded and covered with bacon; or you mav only cover one • half with bacon, and lard 'the other. Leave in the trails, and put under them roasted bread to receive what falls. For a side- j they may be served a variety of ways. Larks ere Caisses.—Pick, bone, and stuff ; your lark; have ready some small paper | cases, dip them in warm oil, form the larks mto balls, and put one, with a little farce ' underneath, into each case. Set them on a baking-tin, covered with a buttered paper, to prevent their drying whilst baking. When done, place them in a dish, drain off all the lat, squeeze lemon juice, and pour a little espugnole over them. Larks ere Cliipolata.*—Have ready some roasted chestnuts, mushrooms, sausages, and slices ot streaked bacon ; have a little butter in a saucepan, put in the bacon, and when they have had a few turns, put in the sausages : as soon as they are done, put in eight or ten larks ; when they are pretty firm, take all three articles out, pour away half the butter, and put in the mushrooms, give them a few boils ; then stir in a spoon- ful of flour, pour on them a glass of white wine, half a glass of stock, a little pepper, and a very small quantity of salt; give them a few boils, and then replace the bacon, sau- sages, and larks, with the chestnuts ; these must only boil once; then take them out, and serve them. Larks a la Ge noise.*—Toss up a few dry mushrooms in a little lard, moisten- them with stock, veal gravy, and a glass of Champagne ; simmer your larks in this for an hour, and then let them cool. Grate a little Parmesan cheese on a dish that will bear the fire; mix a small quantity of grated bread with it, and place your larks on this layer of cheese; pour over them the sauce they were dressed in, strew grated cheese and bread on it, and set it in a o-en- tle oven for a quarter of an hour. Larks au Gratin.—Pick and bone a dozen and a half of fat larks ; season them with salt and pepper, stuff them with a farce, put some oftbejWe in a dish, lay the larks- on it with fried bread between each, lay slices of bacon over the whole, and put it into the oven for twenty minutes; then drain off the fat, and serve with a well- seasoned espagnole. Larks in Aspic.—Put several into the jelly in what manner you think best, taking care that they lie separate. You may do any small birds you please in this manner. Larks d la. Minute.*—Put some hutter, slices ot streaked bacon, and a few saus- ages, into a stewpan ; when quite hot, put in eight or ten larks; take them out again as soon as they are firm ; pour away half the butter, and put into the pan a few mush- rooms ; give them a boil up, and then add a little flour, a glass of white wine, a little stock, very small quantities of pepper and salt; in a few minutes put the larks in again ; give the whole one boil, and then serve them. Lark Pic d la Pithiviers.*—Take five or