ORA 379 ORA a bag, and when it has filtered through, mix it with the syrup tinged with cochi- neal, add the isinglass, and finish it in the usual manner. (See Fruit Jelly.) Orange Juice Buttered.—Take seven Seville oranges, squeeze the juice from them, and mix it with four spoonsful of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs, well beaten; strain the liquor to half a pound of pounded sugar, and stir it over a mo- derate lire, and as soon as it begins to thicken, add to it a bit of butter about the size of a walnut; keep it a few minutes longer over the fire, then pour it into a dish, and serve cold. Orange Juice (to keep).*—To every pint of juice put three quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar; let it boil a little, and then put it into bottles. Orange Loaves.—Cut the fruit into halves, squeeze them, and preserve the liquor; boil the peels in several waters, to take out the bitterness ; then let them lay for two days in syrup; boil the syrup again after that period to a good con- sistency, add the peels, afterwards put them into glasses for use. When they are wanted, take what quantity is sufficient for a dish, and fill them with some pudding mixture—either marrow, bread, plum, &c.; or witli a custard, and bake them carefully. Orange Marmalade.*—Take eight Se- ville oranges, three lemons, pare them very thin, take out all the juice and pulp, lay the peels in water twenty-four hours, changing them once or twice, lay them on a coarse cloth to drain; then take the weight of juice, pulp, and peel, in lump- sugar ; boil the whole a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes; the peel should be cut in long narrow slips. Be careful not to leave any seeds or white part of the rind. Orange Marmalade.*—Take the peels of fifteen oranges (without any of the white), blanch them till tender; then put them into cold water; in a few minutes take them out, drain and pound them to a paste, which rub through a sieve; weigh it, and for each pound allow a pound and half of sugar; clarify and boil the latter to fart perl(; add the paste, and boil them together, stirring constantly till the mar- marlade is done, which may be known thus: take some up between your thumb and finger; and if, on opening them, the marmalade draws out like a thread, it is at the right point, and may be put into pots. Orange Posset,—Squeeze the juice of two Seville oranges into a china bowl or small deep dish that will hold about a quart, sweeten it like syrup, add a little brandy; boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel; when cold, put the cream into a teapot, pour it to the syrup, holding it high ; and let it be made the day before it is wanted. Oranges (to preserve.)—Rasp or cut the oranges in scallops with a penknife, and throw them into water; change it once a day for three days ; then boil them till tender enough to run a wheat straw through ; then put them into cold water till the next day; pulp, and wipe them very dry; have the syrup ready ; boil them two or three times till very clear. Observe to put the syrup to them when cold ; make it the same as for cucumbers Oranges preserved dry.*—Take some thick-rinded oranges, and mark the quar- ters, but without dividing them; then pare and throw them into cold water; after which put them into boiling water; let them remain till the head of a pin will easily penetrate the skin, and then throw them again into cold water. Clarify and boil some sugar to lissd, put in the oranges, boil them together a little while, and then pour the whole into a pan : the next day drain off the syrup, and having boiled it up a few times, pour it again on the oranges ; the third day drain off the syrup as before, and having boiled it to la nappe, add some more clarified sugar and the oranges, give the whole one boil, covered ; put it aside as above ; repeat this operation two more days; on the last, increase the degree of the sugar to perle, and having added the fruit, boil three or four times; then set them in a stove for two days; when the oranges may be placed in boxes, which must be kept in a dry place. Oranges preserved liquid.*—Take a dozen fine oranges, pare them very care- fully, tie the rinds round the oranges, and put them into boiling water, in which they should remain (on the fire) for three or four hours; when sufficiently done, a pin’s head will easily penetrate the skins they must then be thrown into cold water; in a few minutes cut each into five or six pieces ; clarify three pounds of sugar, take out half of it, boil the remainder to lisse ; add the oranges, boil them together, and put them aside; drain off, boil and replace the syrup for twelve successive days, each day adding a portion of the re- served sugar. At the end of that timo the fruit may be put into pots.