ONI 374 ONI be properly done; when cooked, double it; serve very hot. Omelet au Sang.—This is made pre- cisely the same as the common omelet; the only difference consists in the addition of poultry or lamb's blood to the usual ingre- dients. Omelet SouffUe.*—Break six eggs, sepa- rate the white from the yolks, to the latter put four dessert spoonsful of powder sugar, and the rind of a lemon chopped exceedingly small; mix them well, whip the whites as if for biscuits, and add them to the rest: put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying pan, over a brisk fire ; as soon as it is completely melted, pour in the above, stir it up that the butter may he thoroughly incorporated with the ome- let, and when that is the case, put it into a buttered dish, which place on hot ashes, strew powder sugar over, and colour the top carefully with a salamander. Some only use a very small quantity of butter in frying or setting it, before baking. Omelet SoujjUe, in a Mould*—Break six fine eggs, separate the whites and yolks : put to the latter three spoonsful of powder sugar, four crushed macaroons, a spoonful of potatoe flour, a little crisped orange flower in powder; stir them together well, whip the whites to a froth, mix them with the yolks, and pour the whole into a but- tered mould, but do not fill it; set it in a moderate oven, the same as for biscuits ; when done, turn it out on a dish, and serve it. This omelet should be of a clear co- lour, and shake like a jelly. Omelet (Stuffed).*■—Make your omelet as au naturel, but before you turn the ends over, lay on it a farce of sorrel; double the omelet before you take it from the pan, so that none of the farce may be perceived, and cement the edges with white of eggs; serve it very hot. Any other sort of farce may be applied in the same way. Omelet with Sweetmeats* — Make an omelet with nine eggs ; when quite done, spread over with any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper; roll it up to the form of a muff, strew powdered sugar over ; make a skewer quite hot, and mark the top. ONIONS with Carp Rocs—Blake a mux with butter and flour, to which add a littlo onion gravy, some largo onions (previ- ously scalded), a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, basil, bay leaf, and a few cloves; whon nearly done, put in some carp roes, and leave them a little longer; then take out the parsley, reduce the sauce ready for table, put in a few capers chopped, and one or two ancho- vies ; garnish your dish with fried bread. Onion Cullis (Maigre of).—Put some sliced onions into a pan with a little but- ter, set it on a brisk fire; when brown, add two spoonsful of flour, keep it stir- ring, put to it some broth, a glass of white wine, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil; let it boil for an hour, skim, and rub it through a sieve, with seasoning accord- ing to your taste. Onions ( Garbure of).—Take about forty onions, cut them into quarters, which di- vide into two or three slices (having taken off the skins, heads, and stalks); put about half a pound of butter into a pan, and when it is melted, fry the onions in it, of a nice clear colour. Then have some bread cut in thin slices; place a layer of this on a dish, then a layer of onions, and so on alternately, until the dish is quite full, strewing pepper and salt between each. Pour some stock over the whole, and set it on the fire to simmer till the gratin is formed, taking great care not to let it burn, as that will make it bitter, but all the moisture must be completely dried up. Have some broth in a separate dish, and serve it. Onions (Glazed).*—Choose your onions as near of a size as you can, peel them with care: butter the bottom of your stewpan, lay the onions on it head down- wards, a piece of sugar the size of a wal- nut, and a sufficient quantity of stock or water, to reach the tails of the onions; set them on a brisk fire; when the liquor is reduced to about three-fourths, lessen your fire, and let it stand till it becomes quite a jelly. 1 Large or small onions may be glazed thus, being careful, however (as above mentioned), to select them as nearly' oi a size as possible. Onions (Matelote of ).•—Take seven or eight pieces of ox tails, and having scalded, braise them in some stock, with parsley, two cloves, thyme, hay leaf, pepper, and salt; when about half done, put in eight large onions (previously scalded) ; as soon as they' are quite done, take them out, strain the sauce, to which add a glass of port wine and some cullis. Serve your matelote as usual. (See Matelote.) Onion Omelet.*— Cut some very white onions into slices, give them a few turns over the fire ; when nearly done, moisten them with cream, and season with sa ,