CAK 101 CAK Cakes (Pepper).—Take a gill of sack, and a quarter of an ounce of whole white pepper, put it in, and boil them together for a quarter of an hour; then strain out the pepper, and put in as much double- refined sugar as will make it like a paste ; then drop it in what shape you please, on a tin plate, and let it dry itself. Cake (Plum).—Three pounds of flour, three pounds of currants, three quarters of a pound of almonds, blanched and beat grossly, about half an ounce of them bitter, four ounces of sugar, seven yolks and six whites of eggs, one pint of cream, two pounds of butter, half a pint of good ale yeast; mix the eggs and the yeast together, strain them ; set the cream on the fire, melt the butter in it ; stir in the almonds, and half a pint of sack, part of which ' should be put to the almonds while beat- ing ; mix together the flour, currants, and sugar, what nutmegs, cloves, and mace are liked : stir these to the cream : put in the yeast. Cake (avery finerich Plain).—Takefour pounds of the finest flour well dried and sifted, six pounds of the best fresh butter, seven pounds of currants well washed, picked, and rubbed very clean and dry; i two pounds of Jordan almonds, blanched . and beat in a marble mortar, with sack and orange-flower water, till they are very fine ; take four pounds of eggs, leave out half the whites, and add three pounds of double- refined sugar, beat and sifted through a lawn sieve, with mace, cloves and cinna- mon, of each a quarter of an ounce; three large nutmegs beat fine, a little ginger; of sack and brandy half a pint each, sweet- meats to your liking, lemon and citron; take a large broad pan, beat the butter to a cream before any of your ingredients go in, minding to beat it all one way, or it Tvill turn to oil; put in the sugar, beat it Well, and work in your almonds; let your eggs be well beat, put in, and beat all together till it looks white and thick ; put m the brandy, sack, and spices, and shake your flour in by degrees ; when your oven ts ready, put in the currants and sweet- meats, and put it into your hoop : it will take four hours baking in a quick oven. Note. As you mix it for the oven, you must be mindful to keep beating it all the time with your hand ; and your currants, «s soon as cleaned, must be put in a dish ■ before the fire, that they may be warm when mixed. The above quantity bakes best in two hoops. Cake (a common Plum).—Take three pounds of flour, a little ale yeast, a pint of milk, a pound of sugar, a pound of butter, and a little allspice; make it into dough before you put in the plums, and work in as many as you please. Cake (Plum) a la Campagne.*—Take four pints of fine flour, make a hole in the middle, put into it one ounce of fine salt, two pounds of butter, six eggs, and three glasses of water, beat up the butter with the eggs, the salt and the water; then mix the flour with the butter, mix up jmur paste lightly, and give it four turns with the rollingpin, the same as in making puff paste; after this working up, form your cake, sprinkling the table with flour, place it upon a pan, press it down till it is about three inches thick; then surround the cake with a band of stout paper, and to prevent the paste from extending, place over the firsthand of paper several smaller ones, wetted with the yolk of egg beaten up ; place these bands of paper half upon the cake and half on the pan. Your cake being thus prepared, gild it, and with the point of a knife, describe upon it all sorts of figures according to your taste. Put it into a quick oven, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is better cold than hot. Cake (Plum) a la Vanille.*—Take a pint and a half of flour ; make a hole in the middle, put in it six drachms of sugar grated very fine, three drachms of white salt, the yolks of three eggs, a pound of butter, and a glass of good cream, and stir up the same as for Plum Cake d la Cam- pagne ; spread your paste out very thin - sprinkle it with a piece of vanille grated very fine, then form your cake, and proceed the same as for Plum Cake a la Campagne. 1 his cake must not be eaten until it ia quite cold. T ou may make in the same manner aa the preceding, plum cakes with citron grated and put into bags, and sprinkled over the paste, also chocolate, coffee, &c. Cakes d la Polonaise.*—Take some puff paste, and form it into a crust, one quar- ter of an inch thick ; cut it into square pieces, moisten the surface of them, and gather up the four corners of each, and press them together; have ready some small round moulds, dip them in warm water, and put them through the middle of the cakes ; then put them in the oven ; tvlien they are three parts done, take them out, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them ; then let them finish baking; whea