CUE 152 CHE Another way,—Stone and take the stalks from red cherries when they begin to ripen ; put them into a glazed pan, and squeeze them to a pulp, either with your hands or a wooden ladle. Let them stand twelve hours to ferment: then put them into a linen cloth, and press out the juice, which must remain until the scum rises, then skim it clean ; pour it off gently into a cask, and put to each gallon a pound of loaf sugar. When it has fermented seven or eight days, and is become clear, draw it off into smaller casks, or you may bottle it. Keep it cool, and in ten or twelve days it will be ripe. CHERVIL*—Is principally used in soups and stuffing, and is generally pre- served with other herbs as follows : take of sorrel, chervil, beet, purslain, and cu- cumbers, if in season, quantities according to your liking; wash them well; mince and press them in your hand, to squeeze out all the water. Put them into a kettle with water, some butter and salt, and boil them until the water is entirely consumed. Then take them out, and when cold, put them into pots ; cover them with warm butter. When you want to use these herbs, put them into some stock that has very little salt in it. If they are required for a farce or gar- nish, boil them a minute or two in some butter; thicken with the yolk of eggs and milk; when so prepared, they may be served under hard eggs or broiled fish. For sauce it must be chopped small, boiled in salt and water, and mixed with melted butter. Chervil Cream*—Boil a handful of chervil in a glass of water for half an hour ; then strain and reduce it to two spoonsful; add half a pint of cream, the same otmilk, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, the rind of a lemon, a little coriander and orange flower water; boil these half an Lour longer : beat up the yolks of six eggs with a small quantity of flour; pour the cream on them ; mix them well; strain, and put it into the bain-marie. Glaze it with sugar and the salamander. Chervil Sauce.—Put a few mushrooms, parsley, chibbol, shalots, two cloves, a bay leaf and a few tarragon leaves in some melted butter; let them soak for some time, then add a little broth, white wine, pepper and salt; roduce it to a proper thickness, but do not skim it; when done, put in some chervil, scalded and chopped ; beat it all up together. Chervil (Syrup of).*—Put into a warm glass, or glazed earthen vessel, a quart of hot water, and five ounces of chervil; place it on hot ashes (the vessel must be very closely stopped). In twelve horns • draw oft’ the infusion, and add to it two i pounds of powder sugar; boil the whole to ■perlttake it from the fire, and let it cool before you bottle it. Chervil Water.—Steep chervil in boil- ing water until the latter is properly fla- voured ; then set it by in a cold place for some hours before you want to use it. . Sweeten it to the taste. CHESTNUTS*—Should be placed on the fire in a pan with holes to roast; first slitting or cutting a notch in the skins, to prevent their flyiug off'. When done, serve them in dessert on a napkin, as hot as possible. Some boil the chestnuts in- stead of roasting them, as the skins are then cleaner, but the nuts not quite so mealy ; the better way is to boil them in plenty of water, and when nearly done, take them out and roast them. Chestnut Biscuits.*—fake six ounces of roasted and skinned chestnuts, a little grated lemon peel, a pound and a half of powder sugar, and ten whites of eggs. Pound the chestnuts to a paste, and then beat it up in an earthen pan with the other ingredients ; when your paste is of a pro- per thickness, take it up with a knife, and lay it on paper, and form into biscuits whatever size you please. Bake them in a moderate oven, and when of a nice colour take them out. Do not remove them from the paper till they are cold. Chestnut Bread.*—Roast a hundred fine chestnuts, being careful not to bum them; peel them well, and pound them with butter and double cream ; pass them through a sieve; add two eggs, and then strain them again. Weigh your paste, and for every pound, allow half a pound of powder sugar, a little vanilla in powder, and two ounces of flour; mix these toger ther, aud form of the preparation as many chestnuts as it will make; lay them on a sheet of wafer paper, butter and Were: them several times, and then bake them in a hot oven. Chestnuts an Caramel.— Roast chest- nuts as for the table; take oft" the skius; diji each in the whites of eggs beaten, and then roll them in powder sugar; lay them separately on paper to dry, in a moderate oven; they may be cut into different forms if you think proper, and glazed either white or brown, Another tray.*—Cut some osier rods or