PIN PIL 429 crumbs; fry tliern slowly. Dish them in ! miroton, with fried parsley in the centre. Pigeons (Cutlets of) a la Bourgeoise*—• Divide your pigeons in halves, from the •: neck to the rump ; turn the foot inwards, . so that it may appear like the bone of a i chop ; season them with salt and pepper, i and dip each, first in melted butter, and i then in bread crumbs ; broil them slowly, and serve them with a clear gravy or shalot sauce. Pigeons ( Wild) a VEtouffade.*— Take three wild pigeons, and lard with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, parsley, shalots, i basil, (all shred fine), spices and aroma- : tic herbs ; then put the birds into a stew- l pan between slices of bacon ; add a thin one of ham, two onions stuck with two (cloves, a carrot sliced, a seasoned bouquet, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme ; '• let them be thoroughly done, and dish i them; strain the sauce over, and serve 1 them. Pigeons (Wild) en Marinade.*-—-Your pigeons being ready for dressing, cut tbem b in halves or quarters, soak them in a light s marinade ; when they have lain in this for j some time, drain, and dip them in batter, i fry them of a nice colour, and serve them ■ with fried parsley. Pigeons ( Wild) Poeles.*—Take three I' or four wild pigeons, truss them with their : feet inwards ; line a stewpan with slices of bacon, a thin one of ham, a seasoned - bouquet, two onions stuck with cloves, a carrot cut in slices, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme; put in the pigeons, cover with bacon, and set the whole on a brisk fire ; as soon as it boils, place it in a stove with a moderate fire under and over, and let them stand three quarters of an hour ; then drain and serve them with a poivrude. Pigeon (Wood).—The wood pigeon is large, and the flesh of a dark colour ; they are chosen by the same rules as the tame pigeon. If the wood pigeon is properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. They should be served with a good gravy. PILLOW of Bice.—Put on four quarts of strong stock to boil, with bruised ginger, mace, cloves, allspice, and whole pepper. In the meanwhile put on half a pound of butter in a large stewpan, and fry a nice fowl (trussed for boiling) brown all over ; then put in four large liandsful of Patna rice, well washed, dried, and picked clean, and salt sufficient to season it ; let it simmer gently, and keep it well stirred till all the stock is quite absorbed and the rice quite eatable, and so dry that it will separate well, and not clog together : to make it so, it should be over a very slow stove to dry it gradually. Have ready five eggs, boiled hard, and four large onions, cut in rings, and fried crisp. Put the fowl in the dish, cover it with the rice, smooth it over, aud garnish with the onions and eggs, cut in slices. Some add mutton chops sauted, or veal tendons stewed. PINE Apple Chips.—Pare and trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; take half the weight of the fruit in powder sugar; lay the slices in a basin, with sugar strewed between ; let it stand till the sugar be dissolved, then set it on a moderate fire to simmer till the chips be quite clear, when set it by. The next day remove all the syrup from the slices, place them on glasses, and dry them in a gentle oven. Pine Apple in a Compote.—Turn off the rind of a pine, cut it in slices, hut not too thin ; have some sugar on the fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices of pine, and let them boil gently till the syrup is tolerably thick ; then take out the pine, and lay it on a dish; mix with the sugar the juice of a couple of lemons, and pour it over the pine. Pine Apple Fromage Bavarois.* — Pare and cut a pine-apple into small pieces, which boil in half a pound of clarified sugar, and when the fruit is reduced to a pulp, rub it through a sieve, add the isin- glass, and proceed as directed. (See Fromage Bavarois.) Pine Apple Ice*—Put into a pan a pound of clarified sugar, boiled to petit lisse, in which lay a fine fresh pine-apple, nicely trimmed ; let it remain three hours, then add the juice of two lemons; strain this preparation through a bolting, pressing- it with a wooden spoon, that as much of the pulp may be rubbed through with it as possible ; add a glass of water, and freeze as usual. (See Ice.) Pine Apple Jelly.*—Pare and cut a fine ripe pine into quarters, trim each quarter of a round and long form ; take a pound of clarified sugar, boil it to lisse, add a pint of cold water, let it boil, skim, and then put in the pine; when it has boiled ten minutes, take out the round pieces, and put them aside, leaving the rest twenty minutes longer; then strain the liquor through a tammy, with the juice of three