MEA 347 MEA take it off, pour tlie whole into a dish and serv e it. Matelote Provenfale.*—Take a leveret and a brace of partridges, half roast and cut i them in pieces ; take also some small soles, smelts, or any other kind of fish ; put them all into a saucepan together with a glass of Champagne, two of stock, salt, pepper, oil, and six cloves of garlic bruised ; boil them to a court bouillon, as other matelotes; dish them, garnished with veal sweetbreads in consomme. MEAD.—To one hundred and twenty gallons ofpure water (the softer the better), put fifteen gallons of clarified honey; well mix the honey with the water, then fill your copper, (it should hold about sixty : gallons), and boil it till it is reduced about a fourth part; then drain it off, and boil the remainder of the liquor in the same • manner. When the last is about a i fourth part wasted, fill up the copper with some of that which was boiled first; and continue boiling and filling it up till the copper contains the whole of the liquor, by which time it will, of course, be half evaporated. The scum must not be taken off, but must well mix with the liquor whilst boiling, by means of a jet; when this is done, draw it off into under backs, by a cock at the bottom of the copper, and let it remain till it is only as warm as new milk. Then turn it up, and suffer it to ferment in the vessel, where it will form a thick head. As soon as it has done working, stop it down very close, to keep the air from it as much as possible. When it is half a year old, put it into bottles, have it well worked, and keep it in the same vault it stood whilst in the cask. Those who like mead to have an aromatic flavour, may mix with it elder, rosemary, and maijoram flowers, and use cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and cardamums, in various proportions, according to taste. Others put in a mixture of thyme, eglan- tine, maijoram, and rosemary, with various spices. Mead (to make').*—To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, boil it an hour. Then put it into a tub with some yeast on a toast; cover it over. If it fer- ments well after three or four days, draw it off clear, and put it into a cask, with one lemon sliced to every gallon; add a bottle of brandy to every ten gallons. The rind of Seville oran ges cut very thin, suspended in the barrel, is a great improvement to the flavour. It is best to wash the cask round with part of the brandy before the liquor is put in. Mead Frontiniac.—Take fifty pounds of honey, fifty pounds of fine raisins, and fifty gallons of water; boil these about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed ; put it in a tub to work, and put to it a pint of ale yeast, letting it work until the yeast be- gins to fall; when taken clear off, turn it with the raisins, and throw into the cask a quart of white elder flowers : take care to at- tend to it in change of weather; let it con- tinue in the cask for twelve months, and then fine it down with wine fining, and put it into bottles. Mead Sack.—To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, carefully skimming it. To every gallon add one ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand till the following day ; then put it into a cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Stop it lightly till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it in the cask for twelve months. Mead (to make small.)—To a gallon of water put two pounds of honey, and one pound of sugar ; boil it for an hour, put in the whites of four eggs to raise the scum ; skim it quite clean whilst boiling, then put it into a clean tub, and let it stand for a week, putting in a toast with honey, to make it work ; then turn it, and put in the peels of three or four lemons, and let it stand a month; and then if it is not suffi- ciently fine, put in more honey, and let it stand longer. MEAT Cakes.—Take whatever meat, game, or poultry, you may chance to have, (it is the better for being under done) ; mince it fine, adding a little fat bacon or ham, or anchovy; season with a little pepper and salt; mix the whole well to- gether, and make it into small cakes, about three inches in length, an inch and a half in width, and half an inch thick; fry them of a light brown, and serve them with good gravy: or put it into a mould, and boil or bake it. Meat (to keep it lwt).—l{ your meat is done before you are ready to serve, take it up, set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it, so as not to touch the meat, and then put a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. Meat Patties. —The tins should be about the size of a small teacup, but not