GAM GAM 270 half in the stock-pot; take it out, and hang it up to drain, then tie up tight at both ends, and press it between dishes or boards with heavy weights on it till next day. GALETS.*—Take three pints of flour, and heap it together ; making a hole in the middle ; put into this hole one pound of fresh butter, one ounce of fine salt, and some water; knead and roll, flouring the table, to prevent the paste from adhering ; roll it out to the thickness of an inch ; brush it over with egg, put it in the oven, and bake it of a good colour. GAME (to keep).—Game may often be made fit for eating when it seems spoiled, by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If you think birds will not keep, draw, crop, and pick them, then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt; have in readiness a large sauce- pan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one, drawing them up and down by the legs, so that the water may pass through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in, then hang them up in a cold place; when they are completely drained, well salt and pepper the insides, and thoroughly wash them before roasting. The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved by these means ; those birds that live by suction cannot be done in this manner, as they are never drawn, and it might so happen that the heat would make them worse, as the water could not passthrough them. Pieces of charcoal put about birds and meat, will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. G ame (Chaud-froid of).*—Roast six par- tridges, take oft' the legs, wings, and breasts, remove all the skin, trim, and dry them well, then put them into a saucepan; put into another saucepan the remains and bones of the birds, a glasi of Rhenish wine, one of white Burgundy, a bay leaf, and five or six shalots ; set this over a moderately heated stove, and when half reduced, add a ladleful of veal blond ; as soon as it boils, set it on the corner of the stove for about an hour, skim it carefully, then strain it through anapkin into another saucepan, with the addition of two ladles- ful of clarified espagnolc; when it boils, set it as before on the corner of the stove ; in half an hour’s time, skim, and replace it over the stove, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon, or, if you wish it ex- ceedingly clear, stir it at intervals only, putting in each time a dessert-spoonful of aspic jelly. When reducod to the proper consistence, strain it again into a small saucepan and stir it incessantly with a sauce-ladle, that it may cool smoothly; when no more than luke-warm, pour a quarter of it on the partridges, shaking , the saucepan lightly, and then place on ice . for half an hour; at the end of that time, lay the partridge legs very close, en cour- onne, on these lay the wings, then three • breasts; over these two more breasts, and 1 on the top of the whole a fine truffle, dressed in wine, and a large well-blanched cock’s comb; then beat up the remainder of the sauce with a spoon; if it be too thick, set it on the fire an instant, but if not sufficiently so, place it on ice; when of the proper consistence, it quits the spoon with difficulty; remove the truffle and cock’s comb, cover the chaud-froid care- fully with the sauce, and then replace them. Garnish the dish with a border of roots or aspic jelly. Game ( Essence of) .*—Take four rabbits, four patridges, a knuckle of veal, two pounds of steaks; put them into a stew- pan with a bottle of white wine; boil them until the whole is entirely reduced to a jelly; then add to it broth and consommd (equal quantities of each), six carrots, ten onions, three cloves, a little thyme and basil; let the whole boil very gently-, until the meat is quite done ; then strain it through a napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the broth and consomme are suf- ficiently seasoned to flavour the essence <f game. Game (Farce for).*—Chop some beef marrow, and streaky bacon, and pound them well, then take the livers of your game, and pound them also with the mar- row ; add salt, spices, yolks of eggs, and a little cream ; if it be too thin, boil it for a quarter of an hour keeping it constantly stirring, to prevent it from burning. Game Fritters* — Take any of those parts of cold roasted game, which can be cut into thin slices, dip them into good batter, and fry them in olive oil, or lard. Sprinkle the fritters, when done, with salt and spices, pounded very fine. Game (Fnmet of).* — This is a clear sauce, made in a similar manner to Essence of Came ; when strained off, put it into a saucepan, and let it boil, then set it by the side of the stove, and add to it half a glass of cold water, to make the scum rise, which must be carefully removed ; then reduce it to the consistence of syrup. This is used with dishes of game, breaded, broiled, &c. , Game (Fnmet of) Sauce*—Take three