213 CUR CUR half a pound of crushed sugar, put them on the five together, and much scum will soon rise, this must ail be taken off; let it remain on the fire for about an hour ; then try it as follows : Put a small quantity on a very cold plate, and if, when it cools, it becomes thick, and of proper consistence, take the pan from the fire ; if that is not the case, let it remain until that is the case. Pour the jelly whilst hot; they must be quite cold before you cover them with paper. Currant Jelly, Framboisee* — Take seven pounds of fine ripe red currants, three of white, and two of white raspber- ries, press them through a very close horse- hair sieve ; pour the juice on nine pounds of double-refined sugar, broken in small pieces, place the whole on a brisk fire, taking care to remove the scum as soon as it appears. When the boilings follow each other very quickly, take out the skimmer, (which sliould be of copper) stir it, and let the jelly fall from it; on quitting the skimmer it ought to fall like treacle. If it does so, it is sufficiently done. This jelly should be rose-coloured; by making it entirely of red currants and red raspber- ries, the colour of the jelly will be red. Currant Jelly (Red).—Strip off the currants, put them in a jar, set the jar in a kettle of hot water, let it boil an hour; then throw the currants and juice into a fine lawn sieve, press out all the juice, and to every pint of juice put a pound of double-refined sugar; put them in a pre- serving-pan, set it over a charcoal fire, and keep stirring till it is a jelly, which you will know hy taking a little out to cool; he careful to take off the scum as it rises, and wheu it is jellied and very clear, pour it into glasses; when cold, cut round pieces of paper that will just cover the jelly, dipped in brandy ; put white paper over the glasses, twisting round the top. Currant Jelly (Red). Another way.— Take one third as many white currants as red (which must have been gathered very clean), put them, stalks and currants, into a preserving-pan, mash them well with your hand, stir them well till near boiling, but prevent them boiling, as that would spoil the flavour; take from the fire and put a coarse hair sieve upon the currants, press it hard down, and with a silver spoon or ladle remove the juice as it rises in the sieve; extract all the juice possible this way, which is by far the quickest and best, and then add one pound of good strong lump sugar to every pint of juice, boil it on a sharp charcoal fire twenty minutes, skim it well, and put into pots with brandy paper over it. Currant Jelly (Black).-—Make it the same way as the red currant jelly, only with this difference, that you may use very coarse sugar. Currant Jelly (TC/u'te).* — Take the seeds from a dozen pounds of fine white currants, and put them into ten pounds o clarified sugar boiled to grand lisse, take your saucepan from the fire, stir the jelly lightly with a skimmer, then boil it up twice, after which pass it through a sieve. Replace it over the fire, taking care to keep the sides of the pan clean with a sponge, so that the jelly does not become coloured by the heat in boiling; skim it, and finish the same as the red jelly. Currant Jelly (Violet).* — Mix two pounds of black currants with ten pounds of red currants, press out the juice, and pour it on nine pounds of fine sugar. Make your jell)' the same way as the rose- coloured currant jelly. Currant Jell 1/ without Fire*—Press the juice from your currants through a sieve ; weigh it, and to every pound put a pound of powder sugar; mix them together well, pass them through a straining-bag, let it stand a little ; then put it into pots, and expose it to the sun for two days. Currant Jelly, Framboisee*—Take two pounds of currants and a handful of rasp- berries ; bruise them well, and rub them through a. new coarse cloth ; strain the juice several times through a felt strainer until quite clear. Clarify two ounces of isin- glass with a little clarified sugar, skim it well, strain, and let it cool. Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, boil it to petit perle, and let that cool also; then mix that, the isinglass, juice of the fruit, and the juice of a lemon together, and having oiled and well drained a mould, pour in your preparation ; set it in ice, and do not remove it from the mould until wanted for table. Currant Jelly Dumplings. — Take a piece of nice rich paste, and roll it out rather thin ; then take somo currant jelly, spread it over the paste, and roll it up; roll it in a cloth, and tie it at each end; boil it an hour, and then serve. Currant Marmalade.—Strip your cur- rants off from the bunches, and soak them in boiling water until they break ; then take them off the firo, and lay them on a sieve to drain; and when they are cold, pass them through the same sieve to clear