482 SPI SPI glass and beer, and immediately decorate it with the almonds, &c. Another way. —jTake a pound of li- quorice, boil it in six cjuarts ot milk, until the fluid is reduced to half; then strain it into a saucepan, add six pounds of honey, and boil for a quarter of an hour ; after which pour it into a trough upon the flour, with which mix it up by means of a strong spatula; when the liquid has taken up as much flour as it will possibly contain, ex- tend it along the bottom of the trough , as soon as it is a little cooled, put to it half a pint of milk, in which was infused, the night before, three ounces of the best potash; knead it well, and then add cinna- mon, coriander, and anise (two ounces of each), an ounce and a halfoi cloves, all re- duced to powder, a pound ot candied lemon, and the same of candied orange peel, chop- ped small. Finish as above directed, ex- cept that milk should be washed over them, instead of isinglass, when baked. Spiced Bread (Rotterdam) Make your paste as directed with the liquorice, milk, and honey, without any spices, roll it out very thin (about the eighth of an inch), cut this into pieces the size of a playing- card, place them on a baking-tm well rubbed with olive oil, and bake them m a moderate oven; when done, wash them over with sugar, boiled with orange-flower water to a syrup. Let them dry, and tie them in packets, four in each. SPINACH (Boiled).— Spinach is some- times extremely gritty ; it must therefore be picked and thoroughly washed in several waters; then put it into a large saucepan of boiling water with plenty' ol salt in it, let it boil till done, take it out, put it into a cullender, squeeze it to drain it from the water, then cut it into squares, lay it oil a dish, and serve it to table. Spinach <i la Bonne Femme.*—Having thoroughly washed and picked your spi- nach, scald it well; do it quickly that it may keep its colour; then add three onions stuck with cloves, some sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. When the spinach is quite done, drain it ; mince and put it into ano- ther saucepan in a little melted butter, and half a glass of cream, or good milk , stu all together well, and serve very 10 . Spinach in 71o.rcs.-Cut bits of bread tolerably thick, and give them the f " little boxes of any shape; f°°Vw! inside without breaking through, lease a border of a proper thickness, and i > >em of a good brown colour, in butt®r’ . ’ lard - drain them the same as Mj’itur , and fill them with a well-seasoned spinach ray out; serve with or without a cover. Spinach Fritters. — Boil some spinach thoroughly, drain, mince, and add to it some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and cinnamon, all pounded ; as much cream,or yolks and whites of eggs, as will make it the consistence of batter; mix in a few currants, previously scalded, and drop the batter into a fryingpan, on boiling lard; as soon as they rise, take them out, drain, and serve them. Spinach au Maigre.*—Having blanched and minced your spinach, put it into a pan, with nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, salt, and pepper; set it on the fire, and when the spinach is fried a little, add two dessert-spoonsful of flour, and some milk, stir till it thickens, and then serve. Spinach Pudding.—Pick and well wash a Quarter of a peck of spinach, and boil it until quite tender ; a little salt should lie put into the water it is boiled in, and the saucepan must be kept closely covered ; when boiled, put it in a sieve to drain, and then cut it small; beat up six eggs, and mix them -with half a pint of cream, or milk, a stale roll grated very fine, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; stir all well together, put them into the saucepan the spinach was stewed in, and keep stirring it till it begins to thicken; then wet a pudding-cloth, flour it well, put in the mixture, tie it up, and boil for an hour ; turn it out on a dish, pour over it melted butter, with a little Seville orange juice and sugar mixed in it, and serve. Spinach Puffs.—Take as much boiled spinach as is equal to four eggs, squeeze it quite dry, shred it small, and add half the quantity of powder sugar, the same of butter, four spoonsful of cream, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and two ounces of citron, the two latter minced; season with beaten cinnamon and grated nutmeg; put them all into a steu pan to simmer a little while, and then set them by to cool. Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of milk, and some flour, a pinch of salt, and the same of sugar; roll it out very thin, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, and upon each piece lav a spoonful of the spi- nach, as above, turn the paste over and pinch the edges round neatly, in the tom of a semicircle. These puffs may e either boiled a quarter of an hour, ana served with grated bread and Ibirmesaa cheese strewed over them, or fne m 01