CRE CRE 197 boil a quarter of a pound of sugar with half a glass of water, until it becomes of a nice dark colour; take it oft' the fire, and mix with the cream; then put it on the lire again, until the sugar and cream are well mixed together; then place a saucepan, with some hot water in it, over hot ashes; take a dish, in which you in- tend sei-ying, and pour in your cream, then place it in the saucepan; put on the lid of the saucepan, with fire above, and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve hot. Cream au Caramel au Bain-marie.*■— Boil half a pound of sugar to caramel; pour a quarter of it into the bottom of a mould which has been buttered, and which must be placed on hot ashes, to allow the sugar to extend over the bottom of the mould; dissolve the remainder of the caramel sugar with a glass of boiling Water. When dissolved, mix it with five glasses of boiling milk, and afterwards with one whole egg, and ten yolks, a quar- ter of a pound of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix them together by degrees. Fi- nish your preparation according to the di- rections. See Cream au Bain-marie. Cream au Caramel Anise au Bain- marie.*—Infuse a drachm of green, and the same of starred anise, in five glasses of boiling milk; keep it covered; and in the mean while boil six ounces of sugar, to caramel, which must then be dissolv- ed in a glass of boiling water. When the infusion is nearly cold, pour it to the su- gar, and then mix both with ten yolks and one whole egg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a grain of salt. Stir it well, and then proceed in the usual way. See Cream au Bain-marie. Cream a la Cardinals.*—Pound the shells of thirty boiled crayfish ; put them tnto some butter; mix them well together, till the whole is a fine red colour; then pour on it a pint of boiling cream or milk (with a little sugar in it); boil them to- I father for a quarter of an hour; pass it | three times through a sieve ; put to it the gizzards of two chickens; boil it for five Minutes, to set it. Cream au Chapelet.—Boil a pint of cream to reduce it to half, with lemon peel, cinnamon, coriander seed, su^ar, and the skin of a fowl’s gizzard, chopped; strain it; prepare a border for the dish, with some pounded chocolate, a spoonful ct gum dragon, melted thick, and sifted fhrough a cloth ; put fine sugar to it until it becomes a hard paste ; roll bits of it “to balls; put them to dry, and garnish the dish round with them. The cream must be finished to your own taste; the balls are joined together with caramelled. sugar in the form of crosses, or any other, and made to stand up round the cream. Cream (Clotted).—Take four quarts of new’ milk, from the cow, and put it in a broad earthen pan, and let it stand till the next day : then put it over a very slow fire for half an hour ; make it nearly hot, to cream, then put it away till it is cold, and take the cream off and beat it smooth with a spoon. Cream (Clotted).—Take two quarts of new milk, a pint of cream, and three spoonsful of rose water. Put these to- gether into a large pan; set it over a charcoal fire, but not too hot; let it stand twenty-four hours, and when you take it off, loosen the edge of the cream round about with a knife ; then take your board, lay the edges that are left beside the board; cut them into pieces, and put them into the dish first; then scrape sugar over them ; take off the cream with your board as clean from the milk as you can, and lay it in the dish, and strew sugar over it. Cream (Clotted).—String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonsful of rose- water ; simmer a few minutes; then by degrees stir this liquor, strained into the yolks of two new eggs, well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart of vent good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruit. Some persons prefer it without any flavour but that of cream; in which case use a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it like the Devonshire scalded cream. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring; and when that is seen, removo the pan from the fire. Cream (Codlitig).—Pare and core twenty codlings; beat them in a mortar, w’ith a pint of cream; strain it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread crumbs, and. a glass of wine to it. Stir it well. Cream (Cold).—Take a pint of Rhenish wine, and a good deal of fine sugar; beat fine a quart of good cream, and a lemon cut round, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and a Sprig of rosemary; pour them all togother; let thejn stand a while, and.