287 GRA GRA Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice Syrup.*— Take die seeds from three pounds of sour grapes, pound the latter to obtain the juice, which strain through a jelly-bag, as many times as you find necessary, to have it very clear. Clarify four pounds of sugar, and boil it to fort souffle, add to this a pint of the clear juice, and give them one boil together. When quite cold it may he bottled. Grapes (Tart of Sour).— Stone the grapes and scald them in boiling water; then thoroughly drain them, and simmer them a little in a rich syrup ; when this is cold, put it into the paste without covering; glaze the border of the tart with sugar. Grapes (Preserved Tart of Sour)— i Use the same sort of moulds as you do for petits pates, with the second best puff i paste; fill them with the best preserved i verjuice grapes, cover them with paste, and solder them, by wetting the borders all round with water, and then pressing I them together; either glaze them with ' sugar, or serve in their natural colour. Grapes (Sour), or Verjuice, Vinegar of. —Crush the quantity of grapes you may require, before they are ripe, and leave them to ferment in an open vessel for I thirty days; then obtain the juice by means of a press; let the liquor stand for a 1 whole day to clarify. Filter it through blotting paper. It is preserved by having a layer of oil on the top. GRAVY.*—Take three pounds of beef- I Steaks, two rabbits (excepting the heads i and breasts), a knuckle of veal, five car- rots, six onions, two cloves, two bay : leaves, a bun^h of parsley and scallions ; put all these into a stewpan, with two j ladiesful of broth, and set them over a good fire to reduce ; then cover the stove, and let the stewpan stand over it, until the ! meat begins to give out the gravy, and ad- | heres slightly; the jelly at the bottom of the stewpan ought to be of a fine brown 1 colour, and when that is the case, take it from the stove, and let it stand for ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with 1 good broth, or water (if the latter, not so | large a quantity) ; let this simmer for three hours; skim and season it well. The gravy must he strained before it is" used. Gravy may also be made of any pieces of ready dressed meat, in the following manner : Cut some onions into slices, lay , em the bottom of the stewpan, and o meat on them, with the same ingre- dients as above, and two or throe glasses of water ; then proceed in the same manner as the other, until die bottom of the stew- pan is brown, when add water according to the quantity of meat; put salt if neces- sary, and simmer the whole for two hours; then strain it through a sieve. Gravy (Clear).—Slice some beef thinly ; broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it; put that, with the raw, into a very nicely tinned stewpan, with a couple of onions, one or two cloves, whole black pepper, allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it two or three times ; then cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. Gravy d’Etoujfade.*■—Take a leg of beef, and lard it with fat ham, a few cloves of garlic, and the same number of cloves ; put half a dozen large onions into a stewpan, with the beef, six or eight all- spice, a little nutmeg, half a bottle of Ma- deira wine, and some consomme ; boil it over a large fire until reduced to a jelly; then place your stewpan over a stove, and cover it with hot ashes; leave it for some time, and when it is of a dark colour, without being eitherhitter or burnt, moisten, it with broth; add some veal or fowl trimmings ; and when the whole is suffi- ciently done, strain it through a cloth, set it on the edge of the stove, take off the fat, add two or three ladiesful of es- pagnole to it, and reduce it to the proper consistence. Gravy for a Fowl, when there is no Meat to make it of.—Nicely wash the feet of a fowl, and cut them, and the neck, into small pieces; simmer them with a little browned bread, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley, and thyme ; some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, simmer them till they are re- duced to half. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Gravy without Meat.—Take a basin, and put into it a glass of table beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut pickle, or mushroom ketchup ; cut an onion in slices; flour, and fry it in a piece of butter until it is brown; then turn all tile above into a small pan with the onion, and simmer it, covered, for twenty- minutes. Strain it off for use, and when it is cold, take off the fat.