APP APP 24 put a marmalade of apples. When half- baked, put a meringue on the top, made with the whites of four eggs, whisked to a strong froth, to which you have added four spoonsful of fine powdered sugar lightly mixed; put it immediately into a mode- rately hot oven, and if it colours too fast put some paper over it. When done, send instantly to table. Apples Sauffld Parisien*—Make a mar- malade of three dozen apples, half a pound of powder sugar, the peel of a lemon, and a glass of water; dry it as much as you possibly can, for on that the good appear- ance of the souffie Parisien chiefly depends; then put it into a large stewpan. Whip the whites of ten eggs to a strong froth, with powder sugar. Mix a quarter of this at first, with the apple marmalade, then stir the whole together, and pour it into a croustade prepared as usual. (See Souf- fle.) Bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. Serve it as soon as possible after taking it from the oven. Glaze it with powder sugar. Apples Suddoise formant le Pont a. Colonnes.*-—Peel, and take out the core of forty renneting apples. Take ten of them and cut them into thin slices, and then into long squares; as you cut them throw them into four glasses of water, in which you have previously put two ounces of sugar and the juice of a lemon. By this means the whiteness of the apples will he preserved, for without the sugar and lemon they would turn red in the water; then take them out of the water drain them, and boil in six ounces of clari- fied sugar; do not let them boil too long, for if they lose their firmness you cannot preserve their shape. Whilst they are boiling, cut eight more of the apples into little columns with a tin cutter, one inch and a half in diameter, put them into the sugar and water, and boil them the same as the preceding, and then put them to drain on a large sieve, on which you should have previously placed the apples which were first boiled. Then cut the remainder of the apples, and boil them in the rest of the syrup with the zest of a lemon. Cover them closely to keep in the vapour whilst they are boiling ; after which you must keep constantly stirring until they are reduced to a marmalade, add to it half a pot of apricot marmalade, and con- tinue boiling the whole until it flows readily, pass it through a hair sieve, and put the marmalade into a pan, which must be covered with paper slightly buttered. Then form some crumb of bread into a semicircle three inches in diameter, and four in length. Envelop this bread in buttered paper, and place it in the middle of a dish and mask it in your apple mar- malade (the marmalade should be cold), placing it in such a manner as to form a little bridge ; then take away the crumb which has acted as a mould for tbe arch, round the arch place some seeds of ver- juice or preserved cherries: mask the rest of the bridge with the slices of apple; all this must be done with great care, so that the bridge may have a pretty appear- ance ; put at the four corners of the bridge, four columns of the apple prepared for this purpose, cut some of the slices of the apple into squares, and place them on tbe top of the columns so as to form a flat roof; upon this, place a brandy cherry; into this cherry you must stick a piece of angelica to form a point for a finish to your co- lumns. When you have finished your bridge, fill up the dish (underneath the bridge) with apple jelly. This entremet is usually garnished with angelica, pistachio, verjuice, cherries, apricot marmalade, gooseberries, quinces, &c. To form this entremet properly, you must carefully work from your model. Apples stewed in Jelly.—Cut your ap- ples in half, peel and core them, and as you do them, throw them into cold water; then cut two of them into small pieces, put the whole into clarified sugar with a glass of water and some lemon juice, and stew them; when sufficiently done, lay them in a dish ; make a jelly of the syrup, and pass it through a bolting-cloth upon a silver plate, and let it cool and set; and when set, slide it carefully over the fruit. Apple Syrup*—Take six apples, pare and cut them into small pieces; put them into a matrass with three quarters of a pound of sugar and two glasses ot water ; stop it close and place it in a bain-marie, mid leave it about two hours, letting the water be boiling; move the matrass fre- quently without taking it out of the wa- ter; this must be done carefully, lest it should break on being exposed to the cold air ; when done, put out the fire, and let the matrass cool before you take it out. When the syrup is nearly cold, flavour it with lemon juice, and add a spoonful of spirits of lemon and cinnamon, orange- flower water, or whatever else you may choose. If anv dregs should arise, let it stand for some hours longer, and then gently pour the syrup into bottles. Great