CRE CRE 200 eifted flour, three glasses of boiling milk, and a pinch of salt; make your cream in the usual way (see Cream Putissiere), then add a quarter of a pound of good butter, the same of powder sugar, of sweet and hitter macaroons, a spoonful of orange flowers pralinecs. Pour your cream on a buttered baking-plate, and when cold, cut it in pieces, and fry it as fried cream a la Parisienne. Cream Fritters.*—Mix a handful of flour, with three whole eggs, and the yolks of six, four pounded macaroons, some dried orange flowers browned in sugar, a little candied lemon peel chopped very fine, half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and a lump of sugar ; boil the whole over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream turns to a thick paste ; then let it cool in a dish well floured, shaking flour till over it. When cold, cut the paste into small pieces, roll them in your hands till they become round, and fry them of a good colour: when you serve them, powder them all over with sugar. Cream Fritters a la Daupliine.*—Take the third, part of any cream pAtissiere you please, and having rolled out the brioche paste, place on it, when cold, the cream in small pieces, cut the fritters, and finish them in the usual way. See Fritters a la Daupliine. Cream Froth*—Put a pint of fresh double cream into a stone pan, with half a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of gum dragon, a little crisped orange flower, and three drops of cedrat essence; when the sugar is dissolved, place the pan in another, in which is three pounds of ice beaten up with saltpetre ; whip the cream in the usual manner, taking off the froth ds it rises with a skimmer, lay it gently on a sieve over a pan ; if the cream does not froth properly, add the whites of two eggs. This cream is usually served in large silver or gilt goblets, and should be prepared two or three hours before it is wanted. Cream (German).*—Boil a pint of Rhenish wine, some sugar, and cinna- mon, for half an hour; then add to it the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten and strained ; mix them well, and cook it in tire bain-marie. Cream (Glazed).*—Tut a small handful of flour into a stewpun, with some lemon peel, chopped very small, some orange flowers, dried and pounded, and a lump of sugar; then beat up the yolks of eight eggs, with a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, keeping the whites by them- selves ; mix the yolks well together in the stewpan, with the flour and other ingre- dients, and let them boil gently for half an hour; when the cream is thickened, take it off the fire, and whip the whites of the eggs till they are well frothed; then add them to the cream, and pour the whole into the dish for table; strew sugar all over the cream ; put the dish into an oven of a moderate heat, and when the cream rises well, and is glazed, serve. To make it rise, the dish should be covered with the lid of a saucepan, upon which fire should be placed. Cream (Hasty).—Take a gallon of milk, warm from the cow, set it on the fire, and ■when it begins to rise, take it off the fire, and set it by ; skim off all the cream, and put it into a plate; then set the skillet over the fire again, and repeat the skim- ming till your plate is full of cream ; put to it some orange flower, and sugar, and so serve it. Cream (Imperial).— Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon ; then stir it till nearly cold; have ready, in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained, with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which pour into the dish from a large tea- pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it is served, and will be still better if a day. Cream (Imperial). — Take a quart of water, six ounces of hartshorn ; put them into a stone bottle, and tie it close down, do not fill it too full, and put it into a pot of boiling water, or in an oven to bake; let it stand three or four hours, strain it through a jelly-bag, and let it cool ; having ready six ounces of almonds beat very fine, put to them as much cream as jelly; mix them together, strain the almonds and cream, and set altogether over the fire till it is scalding hot; strain it into narrow- bottom glasses, let them stand a whole day, and then turn them out; stick them all over with blanched almonds, or pine- apple seeds laid in water a day before you peel them, and they will come out like a flower; then stick them on the cream. Cream (Italian).*—Boil a pint and a half of milk in a stewpan, then add to it the peel of a young lemon, some coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, rather more than half a quarter of a pound of sugar, and two or three grains of salt; let it boi ti half is consumed ; then let it stand to cool,