•108 PIG PIG set them on the fire, and as soon as they are done, dish the birds, and pour the sauce over them. Pigeon Soup* — Take three plump pigeons, truss them os for boiling; run a skewer through the head and neck, to keep them upright; then scald and boil them in broth and veal gravy, to which add roots mid herbs, cut into small pieces os for potage a la Julienne; season the whole well, and stew it over a slow fire. W hen done, pour the soup into a tureen, and place the pigeons in with the heads up- wards, os if swimming. Pigeons (Stewed).—Make a stuffing witli livers, parboiled and bruised, a bit of butter, a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, sweet herbs, chopped, and volkofegg; fill the pigeons, tie them at each end, half roast, or fry them, put them into some good gravy, or beef broth, with an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a slice of lemon ; let them stew very gently till tender; strain the sauce, skim off the fat; put to it pickled mushrooms, Cayenne, forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs. The pigeons may be larded. Pigeons (Stuffed).*—Make n farce with any remnants of fowl you may happen to have, some veal sweetbreads, truffles, (all chopped small-), pounded bacon, salt, pep- per, and yolks of eggs: fill the pigeons with this, put them into a pan in some melted butter; in a quarter of an hour cover the pan close, and let them stand till done, turning them occasionally. Pigeons (Timbale of).—Take ns many young pigeons as you intend to have tim- bales, and give them a few turns with any materials you please. Make a paste with Hour, beef suet (sliced small), yolks of eggs, salt and water, keep it rather firm ; lino your moulds (having buttered them well) with this, and put a pigeon in each, cover them with paste, and bake them; when done, make a small hole in the top of every one, through which, pour some veal gravy; serve them hot. Pigeons (Timbale of) au Fumet.—Make a farce with the meat of a hare or rabbit that is very high ; some ham, calfs udder, truffles, or mushrooms, scallions, slinlots, (all shred small), grnted bacon, spices, and yolks of eggs. Line a timbale mould completely, with thin slices ot bacon, on which lay about three-fourths ot the above farce ; make a hole in the centre, and pour into it a cold ragout of pigeons, put the remainder of the farce over, and cover the whole with slices of bacon, and bake it. AVhen done, take off the bacon, drain away the fat, and having turned it over, make a little hole in the top, into which pour any sauce you may think proper, adding to it a little lemon juice, and serve. Pigeons ru Tortue.*—Take half a dozes very small pigeons, pick and scald them; leave on the pinions, claws, and heads; but cut off the bills. Take as many short mul very thick cucumbers, make a hole in the end of each, through which scoop out all the inside, and having blanched them about five minutes, put a pigeon into each cucumber; have the head, Ccc. about an inch beyond the cucumber, so as to re- semble a turtle. Have the same of slices of fillet of veal (previously soaked in a marinade), on each of which, place a pigeon ; put these between slices of bacon on a stewpan ; dilute them with veal graw, and stew them gently ; when done, take them out carefully, and serve on the ’ veal. Pigeons (to Truss).—Pigeons are drawn! ■ in the same manner as fowls, except that |- the livers should be left in, as a pigeon I has no gall; skewer them the same as fowls, with stuffing as for fillet of veal, put where the crop was taken out. Pigeons <1 la FenitienneJ—Choose two small fat pigeons, mul having trussed them, tie them into an oval form, place them in a stewpan on slices of bacon, with sweet herbs, morels, artichoke bottoms, and sweetbreads (all minced), a little butter, equal quantities of stock and white wine, veal gravy and a small piece of garlic tied in a bit of cloth ; let these simmer over a slow fire till sufficiently done; then take off all the fat, and serve the pigeons with all the above ingredients. Pigeons (Cutlets of) a l Annagnae.*—• Take the breasts of half a dozen pigeons, , mince, and then pound them ; pound also an equal quantity of calf's udder, and a rather less proportion of panada, adding to the latter mushrooms, slinlots and parsley, and other herbs; all being well pounded separately, beat them up toge- ther, adding two eggs to bind it. Putter a baking tin, and spread the fares all oyer it, about an inch in thickness ; when quite cold, cut it into the form of cutlets, with- out, however, detaching it from the tin. which place on a stove to warm the ( butter. Take ns many pinion hones as you have cutlets, scrape them well, and stick one into the end of each cutlet, dip them first in beaten eggs, aud theu in brea