156 CHI CHI they are coloured, disli them up. l’our on them melted butter mixed with parsley, garlic, tarragon cut small, and a little flour. Serve very hot. Chickens (Artificial).—Make a force- meat with the white meat of chickens, or some veal or lamb, a piece of fat bacon, a sbalot (all minced very small), parsley, also chopped, a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; season with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and mace. Work this up into the shape of a chicken, and stick into it the feet of the bird ; bind it well together with egg, cover it with bread crumbs, place them on buttered tins, and bake diem. Serve either with or without gravy. Chickens d la Bellevue.-—Bone two nice chickens, and fill them with a ragout made as follows: Boil some small onions in stock, till about three parts done; then stew with a little melted lard, two slices of peeled lemon, truffles, mushrooms, livers cut small, and season with pepper and salt, for about half on hour; do not use them till cold. Wrap the chickens in thin slices of bacon rubbed with pepper and salt, and add slialots and parsley; over these double paper buttered. Broil them slowly; when done, wipe off die fat and serve with sauce d la Bellevue. Chickens au Blanc-mange.—Boil a pint of cream with a bay leaf and a little cori- ander for a short time ; then add to it a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds beaten; when well strained, beat up the yolks of four eggs in a little cream, and put them to the former; place it on the iire again, and keep Stirring; mix in by degrees the breast of a roasted fowl minced with beef marrow, and seasoned -with nut- meg, salt, and pepper. With this blanc- mange fill two chickens boned, and sew them up; scald, and then braise them with bacon, milk, herbs, &c. When they are done, prick them that the fat may drain out, wipe, and serve them with sauce a la Heine. Chicken (Blanquette of) d la Tvrijue.— Cut a cold roasted chicken into scallops ; placo somo rice, boiled in consomme and becliamelle, into a dish fit boisson, lav the scallops, en miroton, to the top of it; keep it hot, and when ready to serve, cover it with sauce a blanquette, or d becliamelle. Chickens (to boil).—But the chickens into a saucepan by themselves, and boil a small one for fifteen, a larger one twenty minutes. Chickens (to boil).—Having neatly trussed your chickens, put them into cold water; then take the outside rind off a lemon, slice itthin, place it on thechickens, and over that thin bards of fat bacon, and envelop each chicken with white paper tied over; then boil them about twenty- five minutes, take them up, and place them clean from what they were wrapped in on the dish, and if done properly they look beautifully white. Serve them as you please, with or without sauce. If you have a po'cle or white broth on, chickens or fowls are much better done in it. Another way.-—When they are drawn and trussed, lay the chickens in skim milk for about two hours ; then put them into cold water, cover them close, and set them over a slow fire, and skim them well. As soon as they have boiled slowly, take them from the fire, and let them remain in the water close covered for half an hour; then drain and serve with white sauce. Chickens a la Briucliere.—Take out all the bones, except those of the legs, which must be trussed over the breast, something in the form of a chairman’s strap; give them a few turns over the fire, in a little oil or butter, with some sliced lemon. Then put them and the butter and lemon into a pan with a few slices of ham and veal; cover them with bacon, parsley, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt. W hen these have stewed together a quarter of an hour, put in a glass of wine, and finish; skim and strain the sauce, thicken it with cullis, and serve it on the chickens. Chicken (Broiled).—Split it down the back, pepper, salt, and broil it. Serve it with white mushroom sauce, or melted butter with pickled mushrooms. Another way-—Split a couple of chick- ens, season them, dip them in clarified butter, and broil the inside next the fire (which should be of charcoal), and only turn them to colour them, hen done, pour on them a sauce made as follows : Boil some stewed mushrooms with beef stock and plain sauce, an equal quantity of each, until of a proper consistence ; flavour it with lemon juice, Cayenne pepper, and salt. Chicken Broth.—Take the remaining parts of a chicken, all butthe rump; skin, and put them into the water it was first boiled in, with the addition of a little mace, onion, and a few peppercorns, and simmer it. IVhen of a good flavour, put to it a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds beaten with a spoonful of water; boil it a little while, and when cold, take off the tat.