LEV 332 LIV Leveretau Clievreuil.—Seta good-sized leveret over a charcoal fire, lard and lay it for three or four hours in -warm water, vinegar, butter, flour, salt, pepper, pars- ley, shalots, thyme, bay leaf, basil, sliced onions, lemon peel and cloves; fasten it on the spit, put it to the fire, basting it with the above marinade; strain what re- mains of it, add a little cullis, and serve in a boat, when the leveret is done. Leverets (Putes of).—Take the meat from the bones of a cold roast leveret, mince it as fine as possible, with a slice of lamb or veal blanched ; put it into a sauce- pan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little veal gravy, give it a few turns: in the mean time, roll out some puff paste very thin ; cut it into pieces the size of a crown piece ; moisten one half of the num- ber, lay a little of the above preparation on each ; and cover them with the remain- ing half of the pieces ; fasten the edges toge- ther, and fry them either in lard or butter. Leveret (Cutlets of).—Take the fillets from a leveret, cut out as many ribs as you have fillets, and stick a bone in each; lay them on a dish that will bear the fire, with a little broth, sweet herbs, mushrooms, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter; cover, and set the dish on the fire; stir them two or three times, when done, serve them with a rich cullis. Leveret Fillets Bigarre.—Take eight leveret fillets, trim and bread the four smallest; have some breasts of fowl cut in semicircles, slit the four larger fillets, and put one of the semicircles in each, so as to form a J ; broil the four breaded fil- lets, and fry the four others lightly in butter; dish them alternately en couronne, with a puree of mushrooms in the middle; glaze, and serve them. Leverets’ Fillets Fried*—Take six fil- lets of leveret, cut each into three pieces, and these again in two, by which you will have eighteen pieces; make a farce the same as for hare ; split each piece in half; beat them with the handle of a knife; sea- son with salt and pepper; spread the farce over, and roll them up, to about the size of a finger; bread them twice, the last time with egg, and fry them; drain, and serve them with a clear aspic sauce. Leverets (Fillets) Timrte of.—Cut the meat off the leveret into small pieces, each of which roll in grated bacon, salt and pepper; prepare your crust, lay n little butter on it; then put the meat with more butter, a slice of ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and lay slices of bacon over the whole; cover and bake the tourte,- when I done, open it, take out the bacon, ham, j and herbs; make a sauce with the bones i and some cullis, pour it in, lay on the top of the tourte, and serve it. Leveret (Gravy of).*—Cut some bacon , into dice, put it into a saucepan with some small onions, mushrooms, parsley, thin . slices of veal, a little pepper and salt, a glass of stock, the same of white wine, , two tarragon leaves, and a little lemon; ;; lay a leveret cut in pieces on these; . cover the saucepan close, and let it stand i for three or four hours on a slow fire; then 11 take out the leveret, cut the meat from • the bones, press out all the gravy until ! I nothing remains but the dry fibres; take off whatever fat may be on it, and strain the gravy for use. LIAISON. — Thickening it is usually done with the yolks of eggs, and some- times mixed with cream. LIQUORICE Paste.—Scrape and bruise i a quarter of a pound of liquorice-root, and i boil it in a little water, till it is much re- I duced; let it stand to settle, and pour it clear off, and dissolve in it half an ounce of gum dragon ; when thoroughly dissolved, sift it in a linen bag, and mix sugar with it till it is brought to the consistence of a paste ; then cut it into what flowers or de- signs you think proper. LIVERS in Caul.—Take the lean livers ' of pullets, capons, geese, turkies, Ac., with marrow, and bacon, veal sweetbreads, | mushrooms, and truffles, some lean dressed ham, some onion and parsley; when it is well minced, mix it with yolks of eggs to bind it; take the caul of a calf or sheep, j and cut it into pieces, according to the size you would have them; lay some of the farce on the piece of caul, and a fat liver upon that, then some more forcemeat, then another liver, then forcemeat, and so on till you have laid all; put the caul on a sheet of paper, and fry it in boiling lard, or bake them in an oven in a pasty pan: when they are done, drain away the fat, lay them in a dish, warm a little gravy, sea- son with salt and pepper, and pour it over the livers ; add a squeeze of orange or le- mon juice, and serve. Livers (Collops of fat).*—Pound some fat livers with beef and marrow, fine herbs shred small, salt, and spices; mix them together with cream, or yolks ot eggs; roll out some puff" paste, cut, fill, and finish the collops in the same manner as pates of leveret. . , Livers (Fat) Garniture.*—Take six tat