IIAM HAM 291 tion of liquor; put on tlie lid, close it tightly, and let it stand for twelve hours, with tire above and below. Set it by till cold; untie, and strew bread crumbs on it, pass a salamander over to brown it, or glaze it. If it be served hot, pour on it the fol- lowing ragout: toss up veal sweet-breads, livers of fowl, cocks’-combs, mushrooms, and truffles, in a little melted bacon ; then put a little gravy, and simmer them a little; take off the fat, and add veal and ham cullis, well seasoned. Ham en Cingarat*—Fry, or (if you like it better) stew some thin slices of ham in s their own fat, over a slow fire; when done, toss up a little water, vinegar, and pepper, in the same pan ; pour this sauce i on the ham, and serve. Ham (Essence of).—Take three or four i pounds of lean ham, cut it into pieces I about an inch thick, and lay them in a j stewpan, with slices of carrots, parsnips, I and three or four onions ; let them stew j till they stick to the pan, but take care j they do not burn; then by degrees pour : in some good veal gravy, a few fresh mush- j rooms cut in pieces (or mushroom pow- | der), truffles, morels, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust of bread ; cover it | close, and simmer till pretty thick, then I strain it off for use. Ham Gravy.*—Take a deep saucepan, ; put into it a piece of fresh butter, several slices of ham, about six pieces of veal the | size of a walnut, and two or three carrots i cut in small pieces ; set these over a slow i fire, and let them stand till they give out i their juices, and the ham and veal become i crisp and stick ; then put in a little stock, and let it boil; in an hour’s time add a I glass of white wine, leave it a quarter of an hour, when it will be sufficiently done; ■ take off every particle of fat; strain it into a pan, and set it by for use. Ham a la Gelce*—Take a fine coloured, well flavoured ham, trim it properly, i cutting the large bone in the middle; take off the skin, and pare away great part of ; the fat; then soak it in cold water, for ' twelve hours, if a young ham, but double that time if an old one, changing the water frequently; that period expired, P wrap it in a napkin, and put it into a braising pan, or a large saucepan, full of J water, with or without spices and herbs • let it boil pretty fast at first, then keep it boiling gently for five or six hours ; then Push in a larding pin, and if it comes out easily, the ham is sufficiently done ; let it stand till lukewarm, lay it in a deep dish, cover it with a board, on which place about fifteen pounds ; when cold take off the napkin, trim it again carefully, and. trace on the fat whatever ornament yon may think proper, cover it all over with jelly, put it into the oven, or pass a sala- mander over it, not within eight or ten. inches from it ; dish it, and surround it with pieces of jelly, and place a rosette or palm branch of it on the top of the ham. Ham (Green).*—Rub your pork well with common salt, and "let it lay all night; make a pickle of brine as follows : take two pounds of common salt, one of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of salt prunella, and one pound of brown sugar, pound them well, and boil them in five pints of water; when cold, put in the ham; let it lay on the rind side three days; then turn it every day for a fortnight; when it may be taken out, and hung up. This pickle is equally good for tongues, or raised beef. Ham Loaf.—Soak a fine ham in cold water for one or two days, according to its age; then put it into a saucepan just big enough to hold it, with no moi*e water than will cover it, and a pint of white wine ; let it boil, skimming it carefully till done. When cold, take out the hock and under bones, and the skin; pare away some of the fat, and trim it to an oval form as much as possible. Make a farce with the parings of the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs minced and pound- ed. Take a pan the size you wish to have your loaf, lap all over the inside a pretty firm paste, and then (having cut your ham into thin slices) place alternate layers of it and the farce in the pan, until it be quite full. Put a crust over the top which must unite witli that in which the ham is; turn it over on a baking plate, hour it, and put it into a very hot oven tor an hour and a half or two hours, ac- cording to its size. Serve it cold. Hams (To make).*—Make a brine of the following ingredients Put into your pan. or barrel, sage, thyme, basil, bay leaf balm, juniper berries, salt, and saltpetre’ equal proportions of the best wine lees and water; the proportions of these in- gredients must, of course, depend on the quantity of brine required. When they have infused for some days, strain the liquor, press the herbs, throw a liulo water on the dregs to dissolve all the salt press the herbs a second time, place your ham in the vessel, pour the brine over, u 2