BEE BEE 59 I being well covered. When the meat has taken the salt, wash it in warm water, and put some slices of bacon upon the upper part, or that which is covered with fat, tying a linen cloth over the whole with pack- . thread; then let it stew gently for five hours with a pint and a half of red wine, a quart of water, five or six onions, two cloves of garlic, four or five carrots, two parsnips, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, four or five cloves, parsley, green onions, and the quarter of a nutmeg. When it is done, leave it to cool in its own liquor, and when quite cold, serve. The short ribs of beef may be done in the same manner. Beef (Rump of) in its own Gravy.—Boil a boned rump of beef on a very slow fire, in short liquid, about eight or nine hours, with a faggot of parsley, cbibbol, two laurel leaves, a clove of garlic, two shalots, thyme, four cloves, half a nutmeg, pepper and salt; when it is done, skim off the fat very well, and serve it with the broth after having strained it. Beef Salted. — Beef should be well sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with the salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong: it should he turned every day; and, if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting tub or lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and, when cold, pour it over the meat that has been sprinkled and drained. Beef Salted (for immediate use) .—The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the'pot; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it up close; put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. Beef Sailed, (in the Dutch way).—Take a lean piece of beef, and rub it well with brown sugar (some pour treacle over it) ; let it lie at least two days, turning it very often; then wipe it, and salt it with com- mon salt and saltpetre: beat the saltpetre fine, rub it well in, and turn it every day for fourteen or fifteen days; then roll it very tight in a coarse cloth, and press it down with a large weight; hang it to dry in a chimney, but turn it the bottom up- wards every day; then boil it in pump water: it will cut into shivers like Dutch beef. Beef Salted Red, which is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hang to dry.—Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it and let it drain a day, then rub it -with common salt, saltpetre, and bay salt, but only a small portion of the saltpetre; and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder; rub tlie pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen, drain it from the pickle, and let it be smoked at the oven mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s; a few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and, while hot, put it under a press. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. Beef Sausages.*—-Take two beefsteaks about the size of two hands, and the thick- ness of a finger; beat them well to make them flat, and pare the edges of them; then mince the parings with beef suet, parsley, green onions, mushrooms, two shalots, and some basil leaves, the whole shred fine, and mixed into forcemeat with the yolks of four eggs; spread this forcemeat on the slices of beef, and roll them up in the form of sausages ; tie them tip with packthread, and stew them with a little stock, a glass of wine, some salt, pepper, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip; when they are done, strain the liquor; and, having skimmed off the fat, reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce. Take care that the sauce is not too highly flavoured, and serve it over your sausages ; or they may he served with any ragout of vegetables you please. To serve the sausages cold, to make a dish for the second course, reduce the sauce by letting it boil with the sausages till almost all the fat is consumed; then let them stand to cool with what remains of the sauce adhering to them, and servo upon a napkin. Beef (Sirloin of) in Epigram.—Having roasted a sirloin of beef, carefully take up the skin of the meat, which you must cut out and mince in line shreds; but taka caro that you donot cut the sides. Hare a strong brown sauce ready with a few mush- rooms, pepper and salt, and a little lemon