FRI FRA 265 streakv bacon, artichoke bottoms, aspa- ragus tops, and garlic, a sufficient quan- tity of broth, and seasoned with salt, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper. When quite tender, take out the wings, and lay them in a dish; add a little veal gravy to the liquor, reduce it to the proper consistence, and pour it very hot over the wings. The garlic, ginger, and pepper may be omitted at pleasure. Fowl (IFings of) en Iiedingote*—Take the number of wings you intend to use, and having trimmed, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, taking care that the whole of the wing is covered ; tie them round and put them into a saucepan, with some broth, parsley, a bay leaf, salt, and pepper. When done, take them out and let them drain; then cover them with bread crumbs, and broil them over a clear slow fire ; take off the strings, dish, and serve them with any sauce you think proper. FRANGIPANE.* — Put into five spoonsful of flour five eggs, a pint of milk, an ounce of butter, and a little salt; set it on the fire, stirring constantly until it has boiled ten minutes, taking great care that it does not burn ; then pour it into a basin, and let it cool. Take a few almonds (to every six sweet put one bitter), bruise them, and some macaroons, and when reduced to powder, mix them with a little crisped orange flower (also in powder), and a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to sweeten it; add these to the above preparation, and stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If your fran- gipane be too thick, add another egg or two, and then make whatever use of it you may desire. You may, if you think proper, substi- tute pistachios for the sweet almonds, in which case a little spinach essence must be added to colour it, the macaroons and orange flowers omitted, and three bitter almonds only used. Frangipane (Souffle of) *—Put six des- sert-spoonsful of water into a saucepan, with four yolks and one whole egg, a pint of cream, and an ounce of butter; put them on the fire, and stir constantly till done, when it may be taken off and set to cool ; mix together six dessert-spoonsful of powder sugar, two bitter and three sweet macaroons, some dried biscuits, and crisped orange flowers all crushed to powder, add these to the above prepara- tion, stir it well, and, if necessary, add more yolks of eggs ; whip the whites of five eggs as for biscuits, put them to the rest, and then pour the whole into a silver dish, set it in a gentle oven, and serve it the instant it is done. Frangipane (Tartlets of)*—Line some tartlet moulds with puff' paste, fill them up with the frangipane, to which add a small quantity of chnux paste, dorez, and lay on each a band of the puff' paste twisted in the form of a snail; bake them in a hot oven, and glaze them white, Frangipane (Tourte of).*—Take some puff paste, and having rolled it out to the proper thickness, cut it to the size and shape you may desire ; roll out the re- mainder of the paste to a band sufficiently long to surround it, and about an inch and a half wide ; place this round the under crust, first moistening the edges that they may adhere properly; put frangipane (see that article) into this, ornament it with the paste according to your fancy, dorez the edges, bake it in a hot oven ; when nearly done, sprinkle sugar over, and glaze it; serve it either hot or cold. FRICASSEE (Brown).*—Take two or three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and stew them in gravy made of beef, some whole pepper, two shalots, one or two anchovies, a bit of horseradish, and a little sweet marjoram powdered small. Stew the rabbits about a quarter of an hour, then take them out of the gravy, strain the liquor, fry your rabbits in lard or butter; add a glass of claret; you may fry some forcemeat balls, made with the livers of the rabbits parboiled, and a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, a few bread crumbs, and two buttered eggs; mix these all together, make them up into balls, dip them in the yolk of egg, roll them in flour, then fry them, and garnish your dish with them, with fried parsley, and sliced lemon. Fricassee ( White).*—Cut a couple of rabbits into pieces, and let them soak in warm water to cleanse them from the blood ; then lay them in a cloth to dry ; put them into a stewpan with milk and water, ami let them stew till they are tender, and then take a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir them well together till the butter is molted ; be careful to keep it constantly stirring, or it will be greasy ; put in the rabbits," take a little dried mnce, a little pounded nutmeg, and a few mushrooms ; shake them to- gether for a few minutes, and then put it to the rabbits. You may add white wine if you choose, and season it. i