PIG PIG 420 ful of flour; stir it well, and then addhalf- a glass of vinegar, a glass of stock, salt and pepper; give the whole a few hoils, then pour it over the ears, fry them lightly; and when done, lay them on a dish, with fried bread round. . , Pig’s Ears (Broiled).*—Having slightly salted the ears, boil them in some good stock, with salt, pepper coriander, tar- ragon, streaky bacon, and half a glass ot white wine ; when done, split them m two, towards the thick part; rub them lightly with some of their own fat, bread them all over and colour them on the gridiron. Pig’s Ears (Cake of)*-Take fifteen or eighteen pigs’ ears, and having singed and cleansed them thoroughly, cut them m halves, and put them into a pan with some sward of bacon, clear salted water, jumper, coriander, hay leaf, cloves, thyme sa t- petre ; cover the pan with a cloth garlic, basil, sage, and lay another pan on the top, leave them in this for eight or ten days, then drain, and put them into a braising pan, with water, a bottle of white wrne and a glass ofbrandy, and simmer Jem in about five hours take them off the fire when nearly cold, dram and arrange the ears in layers, in a well-tinned mould alternately with pieces of tongue a Idcarlate, when full, cover, and put a weight on it keep the mould as even as possible et it cool, turn it out and serve the cake with j y. Pic’s Ears a la Lyonnaise. —Take some braised pig’s ears, and having cut them into pieces, put them into a pan with a few chopped onions (previously ^ed up i® « little butter), add a smal q <■ flour, and a glass of stock; reduce it, and serve with vinegar and lemon j nice. ^ Pig’s Ears with a Puree, of Lentds. Put rather more than a pint of lentils lnt astewpan; lav on them some pig s ears, tw0 carrots, three onions, one of them stuck with two cloves, two hay leaves, and salt- when the ears are done, take ilTm out’ and put them into a saucepan set it again on on u dish, and Dram the ears, layJh® ^ cover them completely ;,i. anv Pig’s ears may bo dressed likens,£“J other kind of puree you maj l>,r’s Pars (Stu/ed and Make a farce of str°'jky8 ^“^Jrbs ’ shred lmd1,r breTd staked in cream, salt, and spices; with this farce stuff as many half* boiled pig’s ears as you may require ; take if ’ an equal number ot large slices of bacon, spread a layer of the farce over each, and tie an ear in every slice ; cover them well with bread crumbs, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a slow' fire, hasting with their own gravy. Pig’s Ears, a la Venitienne*—Boil the ears in some stock, with a couple of sprigs either of sage or tarragon; when quite cold, rub tliem with lard; cover them completely with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and bake them. Pig’s Ears in various Ways.—Huh the ears daily with the following mixture: salt, hay leaves, basil, and cloves, all pounded together ; in four or five days boil them thoroughly, eitherin water alone, or with green or dried peas; serve the ears with a puree of peas, or sauce Robert. I hey are also sometimes cut in small pieces, and broiled or fried according to your taste. Pig’s Feet and Ears (Fricaseed).—If they are to he dressed with cream, no vinegar should he put into the pickle. Cut the feet and ears into neat hits, and boil them in a little milk; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon peel. Be- fore serving, add a little cream, flour, but- ter, and salt. Pig’s Feet Jelly.—Clean and prepare them the same as for fricaseeing, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every hone can be taken out; throw in a handful of chopped sage, and a handful of chopped parsley, and a seasoning of pep- per, salt, and mace, in fine powder ; simmer {ill the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon form. Pig’s Feet a la Ste. Menehould. —tot some pig’s feet in halves, and having t.«! them up. that their form may be preserved, put them into a saucepan, with thyme, hay-leaf, carrots, onions, cloves, parde). scallions, a little brine, half a bottle white wine, two ladiesful o brotli, or^w- ter (they require a great deal of iquid,- they ought to be a long time on the fire)^ some bits of any kind of meat may also be added. IVhen the feet have simmeredi tor six hours, leave them to cool in the liquor untie them carefully; the next day J them into melted hutter. seoson with pep^ per, cover complete y w£h b ^ with. and broil them slowly. ber\ out anv sauce. Pig's Feet and Ears ( the feet and ears very clean, and be