BOI 75 BOI Cooks should be careful in managing the form of certain meat for the pot, either by skewering or tying, where necessary : for shapeless masses of flesh, of unequal thick- ness, cannot be equally cooked, as the thinner parts must of necessity he overdone, before the thicker portion is equally acted upon by the boiling water. All meats are best cooked, whether by steam or immersion, by being slowly or gently boiled ; consequently the fire must be properly attended to, and a vigilant eye kept upon the state of the pot. , Modern experiments, thanks to the en- lightened few who have applied the science of'chemistry to the improvement of the cu- linary art, have proved that water for all the purposes of this department of cooking, can but boil. That galloping bustle of the pot, and flapping of the cover, which alone satisfied the impatient, over-notable house- wives of the last age, is now proved to have been mere “ Hubble-bubble, Toil and trouble j” to no other end than to save a little time, at an "enormous expense of fuel, and thus converting excellent meat from the larder, into an execrable dish for the table. Hence, many domestic broils, upon unsuccessful boils, in those days when even the potent demonstrations of science were vainly op- posed to the prejudices of the boiling pot. Salted meats above all animal aliments should be slowly boiled. Indeed for these, the pot should be kept in a simmering state, which cannot be managed without vigilance, as it is indispensable that the fire should be attended to; for one act of the poker by an impatient hand, may set the pot into a too violent state of ebullition, vhilst too low a fire, from inattention, may reduce the heat of the water, so as to injure me meat, for too low, as well as too high a degree of heat will render all boiled flesh bard or tough. It is indispensable also that the water should entirely cover the meat; consequently the dimensions of the pot should be suited to the bulk of the joint. Other evil consequences arise from boil- mg too violently ; as, by the force of the steam the cover of the pot is constantly i ted up, and with the escape of the steam thus liberated, the more volatile and sa- voury particles of the meat escape also, °nd the meat is thereby deprived of its fla- vour, and rendered less nutritious. This constant opening and shutting of the lid moreover renders the pot liable to the ad- mission of smoke, and sometimes even of soot, which taints the meat and broth, be- yond endurance. Large joints, as rumps and rounds of beef, hams, &c., where there is suitable convenience, are best boiled in a copper, as it is less difficult to regulate the heat of a copper fire than that of a kitchen range. A discreet cook, will be known by her economy in the management of the fire. The waste of fuel is an evil of magnitude, proportioned to the means of every house- hold, it being an article of great expense in most parts of the kingdom. Boiling .—Meat before boiling should be washed, and it is improved in colour by soaking. For roasting or baking, however, before it is put on the spit or in the oven, it should be wiped and dried. Itis impossible to complete the operation of boiling without due care in skimming the pot. The instant the water approaches boiling heat, the scum which rises to the surface must be cleared off’; and in this early state of the process, from the opera- tion of the heat disengaging the coagulated matter, which thus floats, the skimming must be patiently followed up, or it will attach itself to the meat, and thereby spoil its appearance. The cook must not ne- glect to skim during the whole process, though the coagulum rises less frequently the longer it boils. By strict attention to this important part of the process of boil- ing, the custom of wrapping the meat in a cloth, may be dispensed with. Indeed, the only reason assigned for this, is to preserve its appearance ; whilst, if the pot be carefully skimmed, the meat will b© cooked clean and pure, and come out of tlia vessel in which it is boiled, still more de- licate, white and firm, than when so wrapped up—the flavour too is improved by the absence of the cloth. The learned in the art of boiling recom- mend different periods for the completion of the process, some allowing fifteen mi- nutes to each pound—others twenty, and some even more. All the best authorities, however, as Dr. Kitchiner, Accum, Mrs. Rundell, and others, agree in this, that the longer the boiling, the more perfect the operation. The French cuisinier may claim the honours of a scientific stew, but the English cook against the whole world for a delicate boil. It is of consequence, as before said, to suit the cooking vessel to the joint, for there should be no space for superfluous water. The scientific allowance being