EEL EEL 235 fresh butter anil some slices of bacon; finish the pule as usual (see Gros Pate of Carp Roes), and bake it four hours : when done, pour in some melted butter and sweet herbs. Eels {Pickled).—Take some eels, skin them, slit them down the belly, take out the bones, rub them all over with salt; let them lie three days, and turn them every day ; then take them out of the brine, wash them in water, and wipe them dry with a cloth; season them with nutmeg, cloves, jnaee, and a bay leaf: roll them in a collar, and tie them tight in a cloth ; boil them in an equal quantity of white wine and vinegar: when they are fender, take them out of the liquor, and set them to cool: when they are cold, put them into the same liquor again: if there is not liquor enough, boil some more vinegar, white wine, and spices : set them upon their ends while they are cooling, and they will keep their shape much better. Eel Pie.—Skin and clean the eels ; cut them in pieces about two inches in length ; pass them, with chopped parsley and shalots, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon juice, for five minutes ; then put a little light forcemeat at the bot- tom of a deep dish, put the eels over it; cover it with pull’ paste; bake it, and put into it either bechamelle or cullis. Eels (Potted).—Rip open the eels, bone and cut them into pieces; wash, and well dry them; season them highly with pep- per, salt, and nutmeg; put them into a pot; lay on pieces of butter; bake them ; pour off all the gravy, pressing them hard, that none may remain; pour on clarified butter. Eels a, la Poulette.*—Cut your eels (when skinned) into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, two bay leaves, parsley, scallions, green onions, and a bottle of white wine. Set them on the fire till sufficiently done ; then trim, and put the pieces into another saucepan. I hen toss up about twenty small onions, add to them a little butter, flour, and the liquor in which the eels were done, and which must be strained, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions. When done, take out the onions, put them over the eels : skim, and reduce your sauce, and then, if too thin, thicken it with tho yolks of three eggs : keep it on the fire, being careful that it does not boil; strain it over your eels, and when ready to serve lay some fried bread in a dish, your eels on it, then the onions, &.c. and garnish the whole with crayfish. Eels (to preserve).—According to the number of your eels, boil a pint of wine, or more, with the proportion of a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of salt, for a bottle of wine : let it cool, and then trim the eels as for present use; fry them in oil, and a few bay leaves to three parts : when it is nearly cold, put it in an earthen pot, pour the wine upon it, and the oil used for frying with the bay leaves; when it is quite cold, cover the pot with leather or strong paper, and tie it fast. It will keep in a cool place for a great length of time. Eel {Roasted).—Cut a large eel into pieces, having skinned and trimmed it, and marinate it about two hours with oil and lemon juice, pepper and salt, two cloves, two or three whole shalots, thyme, and laurel; then tie each bit to a skewer, wrap it up in paper, well buttered ; squeeze the herbs of the marinade, and baste it with the liquor, adding to it a little melted but- ter : serve with whatever sauce you please. Eel {Roulade of).*-—-Your eels being properly skinned, take off the meat from head to tail, if possible, without breaking; season them with salt and pepper. Make a farce with carp and anchovies; lay this along the eel, and roll them up, beginning with the tail; tie them up. When all are done, put them into a ready-dressed mari- nade, and stew them for half an hour; then drain, and dish them. Serve with mushroom sauce. Eel Sauce.—Cut the eels into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two onions, with all sorts of roots, soak it till it catches a little, then add a glass of white wine, and good broth, a little cullis, three or four tarragon leaves, cliibbol, a clove of garlic, two of spices, and a bay leaf. Simmer for an hour; skim it very well, and sift it in a sieve for use. Eel Sausages.—Prepare the meat the same as in the receipt for Eels en Canape, with this difference, that it must be put into a different form; cut some bits of veal cowl into whatever length and breadth you please, put the pieces of backbone in the farce, and put it into the pieces of cowl, roll them up, and tie them in tho form of sausages ; bi-oil them slowly in a well-buttered paper, and when they are of a nice brown colour, wipe oft' the fat