294 IIAR HAR Jive or six days, or even a week, before it is dressed; the flesh then becomes dark, and soft; but when fresh killed, it is stiff and pale. Of an old hare the opening of the lip is wider than that of a young hare ; the latter may likewise be distinguished l>y the ears being tender and pliable, and the claws smooth and sharp, whereas in an old one, the former are dry and tough, and the latter blunt. Hare.—As soon as the cook receives a Bare, she should take out the liver, &c., wipe it well, put in a little pepper, and hang it up. When wanted for dressing, cut off the four legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back, and draw it over the hind legs; leave the tail whole, then draw the skin over the back, and slip out the four legs; cut it from the neck and head ; skin the ears, and leave them on. Clean the vent. Cut the sinews under the hind legs ; bring them forward ; run a skewer through one hind leg, the body, and the other hind leg ; do the same with the fore legs ; lay the head rather back ; put a skewer in at the mouth, through the back of the head and between the shoulders; put in the stuffing, and tie it round with a string, passing it over the legs to keep tnem m their places : the hare is then ready for roasting. See Roasted Hare. Hare a la Manute.—Take a hare that has been kept some time, and cut it into pieces ; boil the liver, and put all together into a stewpan, with about an ounce of butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, sba- lots, mushrooms, and half a clove of garlic ; cover it close, and turn it in eight or ten minutes ; a quarter of an hour will cook it sufficiently: lay the meat in a dish, add a little broth and vinegar to the sauce, and when pretty thick, pour it on the hare. Hare (to Boil).—Take a marrow-bone, with a good deal of beef on it, and a piece of bacon, and a hare; put some salt and water, then boil them ; when the hare is nearly done, take it out; bruise some peas, boil them in the broth ; take out the bone of beef, put in the hare, and boil again till the peas are done, then strain, and put the puree aside; lay the hare in a dish, pour the purde over it, and serve it. Hare a la Broche*—Your hare being properly prepared for dressing, set it on a hot stove to make the meat rather firm, be- fore you lard it: when you remove it Irom the stove, dip your hand in the blood, and pass it over the back and legs ; then lard it at the end of the legs, leaving about an inch between the loin and the leg : then roast it (an houris sufficient), and serve it with the d following sauce: JV] ince the liver very small I whilst raw, and give it a fewturns in a little I butter, with a few shalots, parsley, thyme, | and bay leaf, a tea-spoonful of flour, one glass of white wine, and two of broth ; stir • this[sauce till it boils, add salt and pepper, i then reduce it to nearly half; rub it lightly : through a sieve into a tureen. Hare (Boudin of).9—To make this dish the fillets only must be used—take away i all the nerves and sinews, and then pound : the meat; rub it through a quenelle sieve; roll it up, and set it aside; proceed in the 11 same manner with a calf s udder; soak the 1 crumb of a small loaf in broth, and when j soft, squeeze out all the moisture, and | pound the bread, and rub it through a quenelle sieve. Then take equal portions I of these articles, and pound them together; : j then mix with them some dried sweet : I herbs in powder, a little spice, salt and i pepper. Then according to the quantity • | of farce you have, put three or four yolks, , j and one white of egg, so as to make it easy i to work up : flour the table, put the farce ‘ on it, and roll it up into the boudin, and ! | poach it in boiling water, like the quenelles. I Dip it in butter, bread it, and about a quarter of an hour before serving, broil it: over a moderate fire ; pass a salamander r1 over to colour it; serve it quite dry. It may also be served without poaching, in which case it must be glazed and laid on a fumet of game. If you have not a calf sudderto pound with it, fresh butter is a good substitute; take care, however, to use double the quantity of it. Hare a la Bourgeoise.*—Skin, and cut S hare in pieces ; lard them with large for* dons, rolled in parsley, scallions, garlic (all shred fine), and salt; stew them with 1 half a glass of brandy and two ounces of butter, over a slow fire: when nearly done, and the sauce partly consumed, pour in the blood (having preserved it for that purpose) ; keep it on the fire till this is quite hot, but not boiling; then take out the hare, and lay the pieces on a dish so closely, that it may look like one ; let it stand till cold, and then serve. Hare Coke in Jelly.—Bone a hare, take all the sinews from the meat, and then a pound it with an equal quantity of beel, add mushrooms, shalots (garlic, if 7°n * please), sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, pickled cucumbers, and bacon, cut in dice, and two or three eggs ; mix all • together. Lino a mould with thin s ce