381 ORA ORA it well, and put it into a tub ; when quite cold, pour it into a barrel; add three quarts of Jamaica rum, and six quarts of orange- juice (take care there are no pips)i Beat up the white of an egg, mix it with the shrub, and let it stand for a week; then i draw it otf and bottle it. Orange Sugar.*—Rasp on a piece of I sugar the rinds of the best oranges, but so lightly that not a particle of the white is mixed with it; scrape off the surface of i the sugar as it becomes coloured, and con- tinue this operation until you hare as much sugar as you require; then lay it in a stove, or at the mouth of an oven to dry ; when it is perfectly so, pass it through a a very fine sieve. Lemons and cedrats may be grated, and the sugar dried in the same manner. Oranges e/i Surprise.*-—-Take ten oranges, choose them of a very good form, and the rinds smooth, close, and deep-coloured; cut a piece off the stalk end of the orange, being careful to make the knot exactly in the centre; then, with a tea-spoon, clear out all the juice, &c. from the oranges with the greatest care, so that the rind be not injured; separate the white from the juice, which filter and make into jelly. As every orange is thus emptied, plunge it into cold water, and afterwards lay them two inches apart, on a sieve, round which place plenty of pounded ice. When about to be sent to table, fill each rind with the jelly, and lay the tops on; place six of them on a napkin, neatly folded in a dish, and a se- venth on the top. If you think proper, you may divide the rind in quarters, by which means the clear jelly within will be shewn to great advan- tage. These oranges era surprise are some- times served in baskets made of coloured confectionery. Orange Tarts.*—Pare the oranges very thin, put them into water for two or three days, changing the water several times; then boil them till tender, and the bitter- ness extracted; when cold, cut a thick slice off the top and bottom, and the rest as thick as a crown-piece : put a puff-paste into the tartlet-pans, then a layer of sugar, and of orange, alternately, till the pans°are full: bake them. Orange Tart.—Squeeze, pulp, and boil until tender, a couple of Seville oranges- then weigh them, and take double their weight of sugar; beat the orange and sugar together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the oranges, and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat them al- together. Then line a very shallow dish with a light puff-crust, and lay the orange in it. You may ice it, if you think pro- per. Orange Wine.*—A dozen of oranges to a gallon of water, and three pounds and a half of fine loaf-sugar ; pare your oranges very thin, and take off all the white skin ; squeeze them well, then put thejuice, the oranges, and the water together, and let it stand in the tub forfour-and-twenty hours; then strain it off, and put it into a barrel with the sugar, half the peels, and a quart of the best brandy ; bung it down when it has done hissing. It must stand for twelve months before it is bottled. The water is to be cold, not boiled. Oranges (China) Zest of.—Pare off the outside rind of the oranges very thin, and only strew it over with fine powder-sugar, as much as their own moisture will take, and set them to dry in a hot stove. Orangeade.—Squeeze the juice; pour some boiling water on the peel, and cover if closely ; boil water and sugar to a syrup, and skim it; when all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much water as will make a rich sherbet; strain it through a jelly-bag. Orangeade.*—This refreshing beverage is made precisely in the same manner as lemonade, only substituting oranges for lemons. Orangeade Pie. — Make a thin crust with hot buttered paste ; then slice the oranges, and layover the bottom ; pare and core some pippins, cut each into eight parts, and lay them over the oranges ; then lay the oranges on the pippins, and pour- over them some syrup of orangeade, strew sugar over the top, close up the pie, bake it, then strew some sugar over it. Orange (Bitter) Sauce.* — Pare two bitter oranges very thin, blanch the rinds, and then put them into a rich espagnole reduced; add a small piece of sugar, and season itwell; just before serving, squeeze in the juice of one of the oranges, and part of a lemon. Orange (China') Juice to Preserve.—Take the finest China oranges that can be pro- cured, squeeze from them a pint of juice ; strain it through a five muslin, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes, with three quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar; when cold, put it into small bottles. Orange (China) Water Ice.— Rasp a China orange, take the juice of three oranges, and the juice of a lemon; add to