LIV 333 LIV livers, from which take the bitter parts, trim them carefully, so that they do not burst; then lay them in water to get rid of the blood, and scald them the same as cocks’ combs; stew the livers between slices of bacon, in a rich mairepoix ; when done, lay them aside till wanted for gar- niture. Liver (Faf) Loaf.*—Weigh a pound of fat livers, ten ounces of panada, and eight of fresh butter, or grated bacon ; pound the panada, then add the butter to it, and pound them together ; take them out of the mortar, in which pound the livers, after a time put the other ingredients to it, and beat the whole well for a quarter of an hour, mixing with it, by degrees, the yolks of five eggs, an ounce of spiced salt, two spoonsful of fine herbs, done up in butter, and one of veloute ; rub this farce through a quenelle sieve into a pan ; add to it two ounces of calfs udder, two of tongue, a Vicariate, and two truffles all cut into dice ; line a plain circular mould with thin slices of bacon, make them very smooth, and put the farce into it. Liver (Fat) Toasts.—Make a farce with some bread soaked in cream, truffles, one or two fat livers, marrow, shalots, all well | pounded, and mixed with shred parsley, pepper, salt, and eggs ; cut some slices of crumb of bread, about half an inch thick; spread the farce on, of the same thickness as the bread, smooth them with a knife dipped in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and fry them; serve with any clear sauce under them. Livers (Taurte of fat).—Put the crust upon a pie-dish in the usual manner, and I lay pounded bacon at the bottom; season the livers and place them on the bacon; cover them with butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, one slice of ham, and a few of bacon; cover, and bake it. The ham, bacon, and herbs must be taken out when it is done, drain off the fat, and pour a ragout of cocks’-combs in, and serve. Livers (Fish) Toasts.—Mince the livers of any kind of fish, andhaving mixed them with shred parsley, shalots and capers, peppei and salt, set it on the fire with a bit of butter, and let it simmer for some time; in the mean time take some slices of crumb of bread, cut them into what shape you please, fry them in butter, and when the livers are cold, spread the preparation on the bread with fillets of anchovies laid J m cross-bars over it; baste them with melted butter, strew bread crumbs over, place them on a baking plate, and bake them for half an hour. Serve the toasts with melted butter and lemon juice. Livers u'ith Mushrooms.—Take the livers of any sort of tame fowls, and when they are cleared from the galls, put bards of bacon at the bottom of a baking-pan, and lay the livers upon them ; season the livers and cover them with bards of bacon ; bake them in a moderately heated oven; wash and pick some mushrooms, dry them over a stove, then lay them in a dish with a little bacon and vinegar; then toss some slices of ham in boiling lard, with a bunch of savory, and a pinch of flour; moisten it with some veal gravy; when the mush- rooms and livers are well drained, boil them in the same sauce, skim off the fat and serve them up hot. Liver and Parsley Sauce. — Wash the liver (which should be quite fresh) of a fowl or rabbit, and boil it for ten minutes in five table spoonsful of water; chop it fine, or pound or bruise it in a small quan- tity of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve; wash about one-third its bulk of parsley leaves, boil them in a little boiling water with a tea spoonful of salt in it; lay it on a hair sieve to drain, and chop it very fine ; mix it with the liver, and put it into a quarter of a pint of melted butter, and warm it up ; do not let it boil. Livers au lingo nt.— [ ake the liver of a turkey and the livers of half a dozen fowls, clean them, and take the greatest care not to bleak the galls, for if the livers are bit- ter the dish will be spoiled ; put them into cold water, and then put the livers of the fowls into a saucepan, with rather more than a quarter of a pint of gravy, a spoon- ful of ketchup, a spoonful of pickled mush- rooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper; stew them gently ten or twelve minutes; nicely broil the turkey’s liver, lay it in the middle of the dish, place the stewed liver round it, and pour the sauce over. Liver Sauce. — Take the livers of poultry, or game, chop them very small, with parsley, scallions, tarragon leaves and shalots. Soak them in a little butter over the fire, and then pound them ; add cullis stock, pepper and salt; give the whole a boil with two glasses of red wine coriander, cinnamon, and sugar; reduce and strain it.. Thicken with a bit of butter rolled in flour. Serve it in a sauce-boat. Liver Sauce for boiled Chickens.—Boil the livers till you can bruiso them with the back of a spoon, mix them in a little