513 VEA VEA done hissing’, put in the gristles, and an onion shred fine, some pepper, salt, sweet herbs shred tine, and some flour; let these fry a little, then pour in some, gravy ; add three cabbages cut in pieces, and let the whole he thoroughly stewed ; when done, skim off the fat, pour in some ham cullis, and serve. Veal Kidney. —Take a veal kidney, chop it up with some of the fat, likewise a little leek, or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Veal Kidneys.—Mix some sliced onions and minced kidney well together; then fry it in butter, and add a little stock, a little white wine, about one spoonful, pepper, and salt, and serve with a liaison of yolks of three eggs, and cream. If you wish to serve it brown, instead of eggs and cream make use of cullis sauce. They may be broiled, and served with a relishing sauce. They may also be made into omelets, and served on toasted bread. They are likewise very good mixed in forcemeats. Veal Kidneys, Sautes.*—Mince a kidney small, and put it into a pan with a little butter, champignons (previously dressed), parsley, shalots, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; set the pan on the fire; a few minutes are quite sufficient to do the mince; when done, take it out. Put a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and a little reduced espagnole into the pan; stir it round, add a little more butter, pour it over the kid- ney, squeeze in some lemon juice, and serve. . ^ eal Kidney Toasts.-—Mince a roasted kidney, mince also half its fat; season it well with pepper and salt, chopped sha- lots, parsley, and a small quantity of green sweet basil ; mix all together with the yolks of eggs, and lay it upon slices of Dread of an equal thickness, or cut into any shape you please, and smoothed over with a knife dipped in egg; strew over the mince bread crumbs, put them into a baking-dish upon thin slices of bacon, and put them into the oven ; when sufficiently baked, drain off the fat, wipe the bread with a linen cloth ; serve with a little gravy under them. Veal (Knuckle of) bailed.—Break the bones that it may require less room ; wash it well; put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade or two of mace, and a few peppercorns ; cover it with water, and let it simmer till done. You may, if you think proper, boil a little macaroni or rice with it, to give it a slight degree of thick- ness. Before it is served, you may add half a pmt °f milk and cream, and serve this either over the meat, or separately Veal (Knuckle of) fried and stewed.— fry the knuckle with onions cut in slices and butter, to a nice brown colour; and aye in readiness some peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, that have stewed about an hour in a small quantity of water; add these to the veal, and let all stew together till the meat is tender Add pepper, salt, and a very little mint shred hne, and serve the whole together. Veal (Leg oj) en Surprise.—Lard the veal with slips of bacon, and a little lemon peel cut very thin; make stuffing the same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it half a pint of oysters, chopped small, and stuff your veal with this, and put it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it • let it stew very gently till quite tender; Bien ,take u uP i fkim off the flit from the iquor, and add some lemon juice, some mushroom ketchup, the crumb of a roll grated fine half a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit of butter, rolled in flour let this sauce thicken over the fire and’ serve it over the veal; garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in batter, and fried and thin slices of toasted bacon. ’ Veal (Loin of ) d la Bechamelle.—Chon ut the inner bone from a nice white loin on tlm dni "'I"1 “ t£at ^ wiU % smooth end and \ °P, °ft Part of th° chump nd and put it down to roast; let it be well done; have a bechamelle sauce pre! paied, and a few minutes before the teal is to be served, take it up, and cut a d square hole close to where the chump was cut oft; mince the lean you have cut extremely fine, put it into the hot becha r“e nnd pour it again into he' hole; serve it to table with a well-b gra^!°aSt Under ‘k® kidney, and plenty of Veal (Loin of) with a liairuut — Pre onlyttake°1natlleTe 'vi,!l?Mchamelle, only take particular care that it is not roasted of too high a colour; prepare a cocks’ comi' 0 r’Uh trufflos- mushrooms, cocks combs, livers, Ac. &c., artichol n bottoms, well stewed; lay your veal in Xf centre of the dish, plac/the^ artLhoSs the aiia,l' lP°Ur tl,<3 rag°'lt r0umi n"'l over tne artichoke ; serve it to table. Veai. (Loin of) roasted—Spit the loin roast and baste it with butter- nlncpimd * it a dish with some vinegar \ ljtil Gr rosemary, „„d .1,R * 2 L