SAL 464 SAL S. SAGO.—Let it soak for an hour in cold water, to take off the earthy taste ; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more water, and simmer gently until the berries are clear, with lemon peel and spice. Add wine and sugar according to taste, and boil all up together. Sago Milk.—When well cleansed, boil it slowly with new milk. A small quan- tity will be sufficient for a quart of milk, it swells so much, and when done, it should be reduced to about a pint. It requires neither sugar nor flavouring. Saco Pudding. — Boil two ounces of sago with some cinnamon, and a bit of lemon peel, till it is soft and thick ; mix the crumb of a small roll finely grated, with a glass of red wine, four ounces of chop- ped marrow, the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, sugar according to taste ; when the sago is cold, add this mixture to it; stir the whole well together, and put it in a dish lined with a light puff paste, and set it in a moderate oven to bake ; when done, stick it all over with citron cut in pieces, and almonds blanched and cut in slips. Sago Pudding. — Boil two ounces of sago until tender, in a pint of milk ; when cold, add five eggs, two Naples biscuits, a little brandy, and sweeten according to taste; put this into a basin and boil. Serve with melted butter mixed with wine and sugar. Sago Pudding*—Wash half a pound of sago in several waters (warm) ; then put it into a saucepan with a pint of good milk, and a little cinnamon ; let it boil till thick, stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and heat up with it half a pound of fresh butter; add to it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, beaten separately, half a class of white wine, sugar according to taste, and a little flour; mix all together well, and boil or bake it. Serve with sweet sauce. . Saco Soup. — Wash your sago in the same manner as rice, and boil it in fou consnmm6 until quite a jelly ; have ready a puree of game, heated in the bain-marie; mix the sago with this, whilst both are boiling hot; if too thick, add more fowl consommd, and glaze of game; soak your bread as usual, and serve the soup. SALAD.*—Take one or two lettuces, split them in two, thoroughly wash them, and drain the water from them; then cut them into small pieces, and intermix them with small salad, celery, and beet root cut into pieces, sliced cucumber, and an egg boiled hard, cut into pieces, and gar- nished about; then make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard, which rub well together in a basin with a wooden spoon; add a little pepper, salt, and mus- tard ; when these are mixed to a smooth paste, put in a few tea-spoonsful of sweet oil, mixing it well between each spoonful, then mix in a few tea-spoonsful of vinegar in the same manner. When the sauce is mixed according to the directions, it will never require shaking, and will always look like cream. Pour this sauce over the salad, or serve it in a cruet. Salad (Parisian).*—Take five very red carrots, and as many turnips, cut all these with a root cutter into round pieces an inch long, and three-eighths of an inch in diameter ; cut some asparagus heads and Trench beans of the same length; toss them all up in a little oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, tarragon, chervil, and minced shalot. Cut three large parboiled pota- toes, and a red beet root, into slices half an inch thick, one wide, and two and a half long; cut these again into long tri- angles ; place them on a dish alternately, that is, the slices of potatoe with the point upward, and the beet root between each, with the point downwards ; set them round the dish, so as to form a crown six inches in diameter; to give it consistence, pour over the bottom of the dish some aspic jelly, and put it on ice to set it; then take thirty champignons, pierce the centre of each, and in these holes stick asparagus heads, French beans, carrots, or beet-root, all cut into round pieces, an inch and a half long ; dip the champignons into aspic jelly, a little set, and place them alternately on the beet root; when all are done, pour vour maetdaine of carrots, Ac., into the crown ; mask it lightly with a white mag* nonnaise, in the centre fix a fine lettuce heart, with hearts cut in halves or quarters, and serve your salad. SALLY Lu.ms*—Take three quarts ot dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, a quarter of a pound of butter, melted in a sufficient quantity of milk to dissolve it, the yolks ot three eggs, and a little salt: make these ingredients into a light dough, let it stand before the fire (covered) for an hour to rise, and bake in a quick oven. 1 be above may be made into small cakes. . SALMAGUNDY. —This is a very pretty small dish, if in nice shape, and U