RAT 45T REM i jelly to each pot, and when cold, lay on i brandy-papers, and tie them down. Raspberry Ratafia.*—Take three pints !of raspberry juice, and halt a pint of cherry-juice ; dissolve in these a pound and a half of fine sugar; let it stand some time, and then add three quarts ot the best brandy; strain it, and when quite clear, bottle it. Be careful to keep it well corked. Raspberry Tart.—Line your dish with a nice puff-paste, lay in sugar and fruit, put bars across, and hake. Raspberry Tart with Cream.—Line a patty-pan with thin puff-paste, lay in some raspberries, and strew some very finely-sifted sugar over them ; cover them with puff-paste, and hake it; when done, cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, in which has been previously beaten the yolks of two or three eggs, and sweetened with a little sugar ; when this is added to the tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. Raspberry Wine.*-—Thoroughly wash, clean, and stone three pounds of sun- raisins ; then boil two gallons of spring water for half an hour; as soon as it is taken off the fire, pour it into a deep stone jar, and put in the raisins, with six quarts of fresh raspberries, and two pounds of loaf-sugar; stir the whole well together, cover the jar closely, and set it in a cool place, stirring it twice a day ; then pass it through a hair sieve, put the liquor into a close vessel, adding one pound more of loaf-sugar ; let it stand for a day and a night to settle, after which bottle it, adding a little more sugar. Raspberry Vinegar (Syrup of).*—Take a large wide-mouthed glass bottle, pour into it two quarts of the best vinegar, and as many picked raspberries as the bottle will contain, taking care that the vinegar does not come above them; let these stand covered for a week. At the end of that time, pour both vinegar and raspberries on a silk sieve, pressing the latter lightly, that the juice may run through with the vine- gar ; when perfectly clear, weigh it, and put double its weight of fine sugar, crushed; pour the vinegar in, close the matrass, and i set it in a moderately heated bain-marie; I as soon as the sugar is dissolved, let the fire go out gradually, and when the syrup is cold, bottle it. The corks should bo I sealed, to exclude the air entirely. RATAFIA of four Fruits.*—Take ten ! pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds 1 and a half of raspberries, five pounds and a 1 half of red and two pounds of black cur- rants ; pick, and mix these fruits together, press the juice from them, measure it, and for every quart of juice take half a pound of sugar, and an equal quantity of brandy; dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in the brandy, a drachm of mace, and. two drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep them well corked. Ratafia of Seeds.*—Take three drachms of each of the following seeds :—anise, cummin, fennel, dill, coriander, carraway, and angelica ; bruise, and infuse them for a month in a gallon of brandy. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a pint of water : add this syrup, at the end of the above- mentioned time, to the infusion ; then filter and bottle it. Ratafia, without Sugar or Syrup *— Press the juice from some cherries into a pan, and leave it a quarter of an hour; then put it into a large bottle, with the kernels, and also some apricot kernels ; to this add (if you wish the ratafia a deep colour) the juice of two or three pounds of black cherries. Put to your juice half or a third of its quantity of the best brandy; then bottle it, and, when the fer- mentation has ceased, cork the bottles. If the air is excluded, this ratafia will keep for many years. RAVIGOTE.'*—Shred small a little chervil, chives, pimpernel, and tarragon; this latter ought to predominate (the mix- ture of these articles constitutes the ruui- gote) ; take some veloutd, two dessert- spoonsful of vinegar, and a little whole pepper, make them quite hot, add a bit of butter, and the ravigote; stir till the butter is quite dissolved, and serve. Ravigote with Oil*—Mince the ravi- gote, and put it into a saucepan with a ladleful of cold velout6, salt, and whole pepper; stir it well to mix it thoroughly ; then add two ladiesful of oil, mix that well also, then pour in four or five dessert- spoonsful of vinegar ; keep stirring it till very smooth, and the meat or fish salad be ready for it to be poured on. REMOULADE*—Put some mustard into a basin, and mix it up with some water, add to this a little shalot and ravi- gote, both shred, six spoonsful of oil, four of vinegar, some salt, and whole pepper ; mix them well in, and then put in the yolks of two raw eggs, and continue stir- ring until the sauce is very smooth. It ought to be rather thick. Remoulade {Green).*—Scald a ravigote well, press and pound it, then add salt.