312 KIS LAM when it is almost done, take the kidney, the fat, and some of the meat, and mince it small, with the marrow of half a dozen real marrow bones, cold ; season with mar- joram, thyme, and winter savory, cut small or pounded ; add a quarter of a pint of rose water, the yolks of six eggs, a little nutmeg sliced, half a pound of sugar, and half a pound of currants; mix all well together; and make them up in small pasties of puff paste, and fry them in butter. Kidney Pudding.*—Take a nice beef kidney, split it and soak it, then season it with pepper and salt; make a paste, put in the kidney, cover with the paste, and pinch round the edge; it will take some time boiling. KIRSCHEN TEasser*—The best cher- ries for this purpose are the morella, which should be taken when quite ripe : take off the stalks, and put the fruit into a tub. Have some new wood ashes, and wet them so as to make a land of mortar of them, and extend it over the cherries; these ashes in drying form a complete hard crust, and thus prevents any evaporation, and assists the fermentation. Leave the fruit thus for six weeks, at the end of which re- move the ashes, and take out the pulp and juice of the cherries immediately under it, and put them into the eucurbite (but not enough to fill it), and distil them. The fire, during the operation, should be man- aged with great care, and increased gradu- ally till the produce of your distillation flows in a small stream, and cease the instant the phlegm begins to appear ; then throw away the dregs from the eucurbite, and put more cherries in, and distil as before. Kihsciien Wusser.— Bruise the kernels of some cherries, and throw them, with their shells, into brandy ; let them infuse till the season when you can add some apricot kernels, without the shells, then leaving them to infuse for two months lon- ger ; you must filter off the infusion, then distil it, by which means it will become as clear as the real Kirschen-wasser of the Black Forest. KmsciiEN Wasser Creme*—Take three quarts of old kirschen-wasser, rectify it, by which you will obtain two quarts of liqueur, to which add four ounces of double orange-flower water ; dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar in three pints of dis- tilled river water, over the fire; when cold, mix it with the kirschen-wasser, filter and bottle it. KISSES.*—rut the whites of eight eggs, and two spoonsful of orange-flower water, into a china basin, and whisk till they become a firm froth, then add half a pound of sifted sugar, stir it in with great care by means of a spatula : that done, lay small pieces of this mixture on white paper ; make each drop about the size of a ratafia, rather conical than flat; place the paper which contains them on a piece of wood about an inch thick, and put them in a very hot oven : watch them, and as soon as you perceive they begin to look yellow- I ish, take them out, and detach them from ! the paper with a knife as cautiously as possible, for they are very tender. Take ] a small spoon, and with the end of it re- move the moist part, which is at the hot- I tom, so as to make them a little hollow, | and as you do them, lay each on the paper, I the hollow side upwards ; put them on the wood into the oven again for a few minutes to dry; when done, lay them in boxes, and keep them in a dry and warm place. If they are for table, fill the hollow of each I with a little whipped cream or raspberry jam; put them together by couples, the cream or jam inside; place them in a dish, and serve them as soon as possible. L. Lamb (to choose).— The vein in the neck of a fore quarter of lamb ought to be of a fine blue, it is then fresh ; if it is of a green or yellow cast, it is stale; if in the hind quarter, there is a faint disagreeable smell under the kidney, or if the knuckle is limp, it is not good ; if the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh ; grass lamb is in season in April or May, and continues good till August. House lamb may be had in great towns generally all the year round, but is in its highest perfection in December and January. Fore-quarter includes the shoulder, neck, and breast. Hind-quarter is the leg and loin. The Head: the pluck is generally sold with the head, which contains the liver, lights, heart, nut, and melt. The Fry contains the sweetbreads, lamb- stones, and skirts, with some of the liver. Lamb baked with Rice. — Half roast either a neck or loin of lamb, then cut it into steaks ; boil half a pound of rice m water for ten minutes, and put to it a quart of good gravy, with some nutmeg, and two or three blades of mace ; stew it over a slow fire or stove till the rice e gins to thicken ; then take it oft, stir m a pound of butter, and when quite meltc , J