4d6 SAL SAL Salmon (Broiled.).— Season some slices cut'about au inch in thickness, with pep- per and suit; wrap each slice in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire for six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. Salmon broiled twice.—Steep some slices of salmon in a- mixture of lemon juice, sweet oil, salt, and coarse pepper, hroil till half done ; then dip them in some butter and stock, mixed with parsley and young onions, shred ; finish broiling, and and serve with a little lemon juice and bread crumbs, grated very fine, strewed over. Salmon (Collared).—Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash, and wipe it, then rub it well inside and out to season it very high, with salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, all well mixed together. Then roll it tight and bind it; put as much water and one third vinegar as will cover it; add bay leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil the liquor quick, and pour over it when cold. Serve with fennel. Salmon (Crimped).—When the salmon is scaled and gutted, cut off the head and tail, and cut the body through into slices an inch and a half thick, throw them into a large pan of pump water; when they are all put in, sprinkle a handful of bay salt upon the water, stir it about, and then take out the fish ; set a large deep stewpan on the fire, boil the head and tail, hut do not split the head ; put in some salt; when they have boiled ten minutes, skim the water very clean, and put in the shoes ; when they are sufficiently boiled, take them out, lay the head and tail in the centre of the dish, and the slices round. You may, if you please, dress the head and tail alone, and serve another time. Salmon (Croquettes <>j ).* — Boil your salmon in a court-bouillon, and when cold, prepare them in the same manner as cro- Lettes of salt cod. (See that article.) Salmon (Dried).—Cut the fish down, take out the inside and the roe. Scale it and rub the whole with common salt, and han" it to drain for twenty-four hours. Pound throe or four ounces of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar; mix these well, and rub into the salmon, and lay it on a InTge dish for two days, then rub it well With com- mon salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place, keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through ; egg sauce and mashed potatoes are usually served with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the bead. Salmon (Dried) to dress. — Pull 'some dried salmon into flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled bard and chopped large ; put the salmon and the egg into half a pint of thin cream, and three ounces of butter, rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour ; skim it, and stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. Salmon (Dried) to dress.—Lay it in soak for two or three hours, then broil it, shaking a little pepper over it. Salmon, Glued au Maigre.*—Empty and clean a good-sized salmon, and lard it with anchovies and eels ; open the fish, take out the hone, and fill it with a farce composed of tench, perch, 6cc., minced and mixed with artichoke-bottoms, truffles, morels, &c., also minced, and sweet herbs, kneaded together with fresh butter. Tie up the salmon, and put it into a saucepan with eels, crayfish, carp roes, truffles, £cc., moistened with equal quantities of maigre broth and white wine ; stew this until the fish is tender and well-flavoured; then serve it, with its liquor, reduced to the proper consistence for sauce. Salmon (Marinated).*—Take two hand- some slices of salmon, and marinate them in oil and lemon juice, with salt and pep- per; broil them about two thirds, and then put them into a saucepan with their marinade; set them on hot ashes to simmer for half an hour, then put them on a dish, cover them with grated bread, colour the whole with a salamander, and serve. Salmon (Pickled).— Cut a salmon into two or tlireo pieces, put it in a fish-kettle, and set it on the fire with a sufficient quantity of water to cover it, and plenty of salt; as soon as it begins to boil, set it aside to simmer very gently until done , then take it off the fire, and let it stand m the liquor until cold; take it out, lay t e pieces close together in a tub to pickle, and over them five anchovies, a small quantity of pounded saltpetre, and a quar- ter of a pint of sweet oil; being thus pre- pared, put the top of the salmon liquor into a stewpan, to which add the same