505 VEA VAN remainder of the cream, stir it over the lire like white sauce, and as soon as it sticks to the spoon (which must be of wood), take it off, stir it an instant, and then pour it over the other cream, and serve cold. V anilla Cream ( Whipped').*—Put a pinch of gum dragon into a pint of cream, add a small quantity of orange-flower water, powder sugar to the taste, and a little milk, in which some vanilla has been boil- ed, and the milk strained; whip these in- gredients with a whisk, until the whole is sufficiently frothed; then lay it carefully on a dish, in a pyramidal form, and serve. \ anilla Cream. Ice*—Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth in a preserv- ing-pan, pour on them the yolks of eight, and a pound of sifted sugar, whip the whole well with a whisk, and pour in by degrees two quarts of boiling cream; con- tinue to whip it for some little time, and then put it on the fire, with half an ounce of vanilla bruised, still whipping ; when it has boiled up three or four times, strain it, and freeze as usual. (See Ice.) Vanilla (Creme of) Liqueur*—Dis- solve over the fire two pounds ten ounces of broken sugar in three pints of purified river water; when it has boiled up once, pour it into a jar, on three drachms of vanilla cut in pieces, and half a grain of amber. When quite cold, add three pints of good brandy, cover the vessel, and when it has infused six days, colour it with a little prepared cochineal; filter, and bottle the liqueur. Cork the bottles tight, and seal the corks. Vanilla Sticks.*—Take some march- pane paste, a quarter of a pound of choco- late, and the same of vanilla; mix these well into the paste, and then form it into sticks, like the vanilla in its original form • lay them on a sheet of paper, and bake in a slow oven. VEAL.—The flesh of the bull calf is firmer, and generally more esteemed than that of the cow calf, but the flesh of the latter is the whitest, and the fillet is often preferred on account of the udder. When the head is fresh, the eves will ap- pear full; if the shoulder vein" is of a clear red, it is good ; when there is any green or yellow spots, it is stale ; the breast and neck, when good, should look white and clear; the loin is very apt to taint under the kidney, it will be soft and slimy when sta e. Veal should never be kept lomr undressed, as it by no means improves The French divide the leg into three parts, besides the middle bone; these are called the noix, som-noix, and contre- noix. The first is the largest, and has the udder to it; the second is the flat white part under the noix, and the third is the side part. Veal (Blanquette of).*—Take a cold roasted shoulder of veal, raise the skin carefully, the fillet or loin will do the same; and cut all the finest parts into neat collops ; make a ragout with some champignons, cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bit of butter, a pinch of flour, salt, and pepper; when this ragout is reduced properly, put in the veal, add a liaison of yolks of eggs, and some cream ; stir it over the fire, taking care not to let it boil; squeeze in a little lemon juice, and serve. Veal (Boiled).—Veal should be well boiled, in a good deal of water; if boiled in a cloth, it will be whiter; serve it with tongue, bacon, or pickled pork, greens of any sort, brocoli, and carrots, or onion sauce, white sauce, oyster sauce, parsley and butter, or white celery sauce. Veal (Broiled) Venetian Fashion.—Cut some slices of veal tolerably thick and large, and let them marinate for about an hour in a little oil, chopped parsley, mush- rooms, shalots, bay leaf, thyme, basil, pepper, and salt; let as much of the mari- nade adhere to them as you possibly can, and strew over them bread crumbs; broil them slowly, baste them with what remains of the marinade, and serve with a squeeze of lemon, or a Seville orange over them. Veal Broth.—Stew a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water, with two ounces of rice or vermicelli, a little salt, and a blade of mace. When thoroughly boiled and the liquor reduced to half, it is'fit for use : you may add celery and parsley sometimes. Veal Cake.*—Take some nice thin slices of veal, and season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg grated; have ready some hard-boiled eggs sliced, and put a layer of these at the bottom of a basin or pan, then a layer of veal, then some slices of ham; over this strew marjoram, thyme, parsley, shred fine, bread crumbs, and lemon peel chopped small; then a layer of eggs, veal, ham, &c., and so continue till the" pan is' filled; pour some good gravy over the whole, cover the pan with coarse brown paper, tie it closely over, and set it to bake in a slow oven ; an hour will be sufficient to bake it; when cold, turu it out upon a