coc 179 CLO strongest spirits of wine, apothecary’s mea- sure. Cloves (Oil of).*—This is made in the same manner as ciunamonum ; the quanti- ties are, an ounce of cloves to three quarts of brandy, and lour pounds of sugar dis- solved in four pints of water. Clove Pastils.-—Are made like those of cinnamon. The proportions are six cloves to half an ounce of gum dragon. Cloves (Dantzic liata/ia).*—Take three quarters of an ounce of cloves, and the same of cinnamon, broken in small pieces, and put them into half a pint of water; let them infuse for twenty-four hours. The next day clarify two pounds of double-re- fined sugar in a bottle of water; boil it to souffle, and then add to it four bottles of the best red Bordeaux ; strain into this the infusion of cloves and cinnamon, tie the spices in a little bag, and put them in also; cover the pan, and boil up the whole half a dozen times ; then take it from the fire, pour it into an earthen vessel, and cover it. When quite cold, take out the bag and squeeze it. Then take a bottle of rectified spirits of wine in one hand, and a spoon in the other; pour the former into the liquor, stirring constantly ; taste it fre- quently, and when sufficiently strong 0f the spirit, cease pouring. It may be bot- tled immediately, cork it tight, tie the corks down and seal them. The longer this liqueur is kept, the better it will be. Cloves (Syrup of).—Put a quarter of a pound of cloves and a quart of boiling | water into a stewpan, cover it close, and boil them gently for half an hour; drain the cloves, and to a pint of the liquor put two pounds of sugar; beat up two eggs in a little cold water, add them to the above, and simmer the whole till it becomes a ' strong syrup. When cold, bottle it. Cloves (Tincture of).— Steep three ounces, apothecary’s weight, of bruised cloves in a quart of brandy for ten days, and then strain it through a flannel bag. Clove Water*—Bruise an ounce of cloves, and put them into a quart of brandy and distil it. Dissolve a pound and a half pf sugar in a pint of clear water, and add !f to the distilled mixture, stir them well together, filter and bottle it. Clove Water.—Mix a little cinnamon "nth the cloves, or the scent will bo too strong; allow half a score of cloves to a quart of water; put in a good piece of sugar; let them infuse some time over hot cut iers, or in a warm place; then strain it tor use. Clove Gillyflowers (Syrupof).—Gather the flowers early in the morning, pick them clean, and cut the white from the red ; to a quart of flowers put two quarts of spring w ater, let it stand for two days in a cold place, and after boiling it till it comes to a quart, strain it off, and putin half a pound of double refined sugar, and boil it up again foi thiee or four minutes ; pour it into a china basin, let it stand to cool, and when it is quite cold, skim it; put it into bottles, cork them well, and tie them down with leather. COCHINEAL (Prepared).*—Pound an ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, pound also an ounce of cream of tartar, and two drachms of alum; put these ingre- dients into a saucepan with half a pint of water; when it boils, take it from the fire and let it cool; pour it oft’ into a bottle as free from sediment as possible, and set it by for use. Cochineal (topreserve).—Boil an ounce of cochineal, beaten to a fine powder, in three quarters of a pint of water until’re- duced to half; then add to it rock alum and cream of tartar, of each half an ounce pounded fine. Boil all together a short time, and strain it. If to be kept any time, an ounce of loaf sugar should be boiled with it. COCKLES.*—This fish should he pro- cured a day or two before they are wanted, that they may be cleaned as much as pos- sible from the grits; they are cleansed as follows: Put the cockles into a tub with plenty of water, and stir them up two or three times a day with a birch broom • change the water each day; and when pro- per y cleaned, put them into a saucepan until hot water, and boil them. As soon as the shells open, they are done: they should be served very hot. Or put a very little water at the bottom of the pan, sprinkle them with salt cover with a cloth, and then the lul of the pan ; steam them a short time ; when they are open they are clone : serve very hot with a little of' their liquor. Cockle Catsup.—Wash the quantity of cockles you may require in their own liquor, and having pounded them, to every pint of the paste put an equal quantity of sherry ; boil them, and put to them* an ounce of salt, the same of Cayenne, and two drachms of pounded mace. Boil it a second time, skim, and rub it through a sieve When quite cold, bottle it. Keep it tightly corked. r Cockle Catsup.—Open the cockles, soald n 9