CUR CUR 216 with a pound and three quarters of sugar ; over each a few of the currants; dry them fine sugar, strain it into the vessel; add a pint of brandy, and a pint of raspberries. Stop it down, and let it stand three months. Currant Wine (Red or White).*—Take thirty pounds of either red or white cur- rants, and an equal quantity of black currants and small cherries, not stoned, and leaving on the stalks; put the whole into a cask, and bruise them with a large Btick ; then boil half a quarter of junp er berries in five or six pints of water, to which add half a pound, or a pound of honey, to make the juniper berries fer- ment; when they have fermented, mix them with the juice of the fruits. Stir it together during four-and-twenty hours, two or three times, and then fill up the cask with water, and close it. This quan- tity of fruit will make a hundred and fifty bottles of excellent wine. If you desire to make it stronger, put in a pint or two of brandy. Cuit kant (Bluch) Wine.—Take three pounds of ripe black currants: pick and bruise them, and put them into a deep basin, with four bottles and a half of brandy ; add, if you please, some cloves, and a little bruised cinnamon, and set the jar in a place for two months. At the end of that time, strain off the liquor, pressing the currants well, in order to extract all the juice, which put again into the jar, leave it till the sugar is completely melted, and then strain through paper, and bottle off. This liquor becomes ex- cellent after three or four years’ keeping. Cun iiant (Dry) Brioche.*—This is made in the same manner as the cheese brioche ; only that currants (a pound and a half to eight pounds of the paste) are used instead of cheese. The same quan- tity of stoned raisins may also be used, if preferred. Currant (Dry) Cakes.'—Take two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a half of butter, the yolks of five or six eggs, one pound and a half of sugar, six spoonsful of white wine, three spoonsful of carraway seeds, two nutmegs, and one pound of currants ; beat up the butter with your hand till it is very thin; dry the flour well; put in the carraway seeds, and nutmegs, finely grated; afterwards put them all into your batter, with the eggs, white wine, and rose water; mingle them well together ; put in the currants; let your oven be prettv hot, and as soon as they are coloured they will be suffi- ciently done. CunnANT (Dry) Funchonneites.*—Take half the quantities of the usual ingredi- ents (see Fanchonnettes), with the addi- ( tion of three ounces of dry currants. When your fanchonnettes are made and pearled, put between, and on each pearl, a 111 single currant (for which purpose take an I ounce). Put them into a gentle oven, paying particular attention that the meringues, or pearls, do not lose their white colour. CunnANT (Dry) Fritters a la Dau- n •pliine.*—Having picked and washed six u ounces of dried currants, boil them gently I; for a minute or two in two ounces of clarified sugar. When cold, put about a quarter of a spoonful of them on each i fritter (see Fritters a la Dauphine), and ! finish as therein directed. CunnANT Fritters without Eggs*—Half |ipj a pint of ale, not bitter; stir into it flour in to make it tolerably thick, and a few cur- u rants ; beat this up quick ; have the lard M boiling, throw in a large spoonful at a j J time. CunnANT (Dry) Gcnoises*—Having B washed and dried a quarter of a pound of I currants, mix half of them, and the peel ndl of a lemon, shred fine, with the usual I preparation. (SeeGenoise.) Finish and I glaze them as directed, with a quarter of' a pound of powder sugar, and a little white of egg; as you do them, strew a minute in the oven. CunnANTS (Dried) Madeleines of*— Prepare your paste in the usual wav, and when it is ready to put in the moulds, . mix with it two ounces of currants. CunnANTS (Dry) Mosaic Tartlets of.*— Wash half a pint of drv currants, and mix three quarters of them with a pot of apricot marmalade; with this fill vour tartlets. (See Mosaic Tartlets). hen baked, glaze them, and strew over them the remainder of the currants, which must be perfectly drv. CunnANTS (Dry) Nongats.*—Blanch i three quarters of a pound of sweet al- ! monds; cut them into thin slices, and put them into a cool oven to colour them; dissolve six ounces of powder sugar, and when it begins to turn red, throw in the almonds, stirring them with a spatula; j pour this mixture on a buttered plate thinner than usual (see Nongats a la Franpaise), and strew over it dry currants and sugar. Finish them in the usual manner, and then cut them into crescents, with a circular paste-cutter, of two inches diameter. HPQ