PEA PEA 405 Pears ( Compote of') d la Bonne Femme* —Choose your fruit carefully, take off the tops, and trim the tails, wash and drain them well; then put them into a skillet with sugar, cinnamon, two or three cloves, a little red wine, and some water. Set I them on a slow fire, taking care to skim them. When sufficiently done, they will look wrinkled. Ibid (Red).*—Peel your fruit, and put it into a well glazed pipkin, with a glass of wine, a little cinnamon, sugar to the taste, and a little water; put in also a pewter spoon; cover the pipkin close, and set it on hot ashes. When done, the pears will he of a fine red colour. Pears (to compound).*-—Take a dozen large pears, coddle them ; when tender, take them out and lay them in cold water, pare and cut them in halves ; take out the cores, put them in syrup made thus : Two pounds and a half of sugar to three pints of water a little lemon peel pared very thin, boiled in them, and a little cochineal bruised and put into a muslin bag : cover them, boil them quick till they are tender and of a good colour; when cold, squeeze in the juice of two or three lemons. Pear Cream.—Take a dozen of jargo- nels (or any other mellow pears), peel, core, and cut them in quarters, put them in the tammy, and mash them well with a wooden spoon : then put to them a little clarified sugar cold, the juice of three lemons, with isinglass as cool as it can be without settling ; then rub the whole through the tammy, and immediately set it in one large or several small moulds, with ice round them. Pears (Dried).—These are done in the same manner as apples. Pears Grilles.*—Put some fine baking pears on a fiercely heated stove, till the peel is well browned, then throw them into cold water ; clean them thoroughly, put them into a skillet with clarified sugar, cinnamon, and a little water; when suffi- ciently tender, place them in the compotier. Pear Ice.* lake any kind of pear you may prefer, let them he quite ripe, and having pared and cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little water, set. it on the fire ; when the fruit is quite soft, rub it through a seive ; to each pound of the pulp put three quarters of a pound of sugar, boiled to petit lisse, and the juice of two lemons ; mix them well, and freeze in the usual manner. (See Ice.) Pears (to keep).*—Choose the soundest pears, peel, and cut them into quarters, take out the pips, put the pieces into bottles, which place in the bain-marie. If the pears are intended for the dessert, once boiling is sufficient; hut if for co&king, they should boil up five or six times. Should the fruit thus bottled have fallen from the tree instead of having been gathered, they will require a quarter of an hour’s boiling. Pear Marmalade*—Take six pounds of small pears and four pounds of sugar ; put the pears into a saucepan with a little water, set it on the fire; when the fruit is soft, take them out, pare, quarter, and. core them; as you do this, throw each, piece into cold water, in another saucepan, and when all are done, set them on the fire. As soon as they are sufficiently soft, rub them through a sieve, and having in. the meantime clarified and boiled the sugar to petit lissd, pour the syrup to the pulp, set it on the fire, and stir them together until the marmalade is of the proper con- sistence ; then take it off, put it into pots, and when cold, tie them down. Pears Preserved.*—-Take care in mak- ing this preserve that the fruit he not too ripe; they are in a fit state as soon as the pips are black. Set the pears on the fire in a sufficient quantity of water to cover them ; take them off when quite soft, and throw them into cold water; pare them lightly, cut off the stalks, prick each with a pin sufficiently long to reach the core, and put them again into cold water, with a handful of alum; set them on the fire to boil until the pears are tender, then take them out, and put them into cold water for the third time. Clarify and boil some sugar to petit liss£, put some water to it, and when it boils, add the pears, cover the pan, and give the whole a boil; skim, and pour it into an earthen pan and leave it. The next day, drain the syrup from the pears, add a little more clarified sugar to it, and boil it again to petit lisse ; pour it over the fruit, and leave it as before; the next and two successive days, proceed in the same way, each time increasing the degree of boiling, until it reaches grand, perle; then add the pears, give the pre- serve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into a pan, and place it in a stove for two days, then drain tho fruit, and put it by for use. Pears (Stewed).—Wash and prick some large stewing pears, and set them on the fire in a large stewing pan of water to scald; when scalded, take them out, and