474 SHE SHE filled up with a bit of fried bread ; in this having cut them of the proper lengths, moisten your hands with oil of almonds, and rub the servelas well with the palms, until they are quite smooth and shining. These servelas are of an excellent flavour, and will keep a long time. SHALOT Sauce*—Take two spoonsful of the liquor the mutton is boiled in, two spoonsful of vinegar, two or three shalots cut fine, and a little salt; put these ingre- dients into a saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled in flour; let it stew a little, and serve it up with your mutton or beef. Shalot Vinegar.—Put six or eight sha- lots split into a quart bottle ; fill it up with vinegar, stop it; it will he fit for use in a month. ■SHEEP’S Tails (Braised).*— Clean and wash the tails thoroughly ; scald them, and then put them into a saucepan on slices of streaked bacon, with tarragon, a bunch of sweet herbs, turnips, parsley, salt, pep- per, and moisten the whole with consomme; cover them close, and braise them till quite tender; then lay the tails on a dish, and pour the other articles over them: Sheep’s Tails (Roasted).*—Having tho- roughly washed the tails in warm water, scald them for five minutes in boiling water; then cover them completely with bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; fasten the tails to a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire. Any sauce vou please may be served with them. Sheep’s Tongues en Brochettes. *—Boil the tongues in some consommt, then cut them into small fillets, cut also bacon into very thin slices, not larger, however, than the tongues ; put these pieces alternately on skewers; cover them with bread crumbs mixed with sweet herbs shred, suit, and pepper; lay them on a gridiron, and broil them nicely. Sheep’s Tongues (Broiled).*—Having parboiled the tongues in a little stock, split each, give them u few turns in some melted bacon, strewing over them salt, pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs; when well covered with the latter, lay them on u gridiron, and broil them slowly. Sheep’s Tongues en Chemises.*—Boil some tongues in good real or mutton gravy, and in the mean time put into a saucepan a little butter, some sliced onions, pounded bacon, three or four anchovies, shred parsley, snlt, and pepper, mix them well together. Cut some caul into pieces largo enough to con- tain a tongue, in each of which put a little tongue on it, more seasoning, wrap the ends of the caul over the whole ; bread them well with crumbs mixed with shred sweet herbs, and bake them in a moderate oven. Sheep’s Tongues Pie.—Line a dish with some good puff paste, and lay at the bottom . of the dish some good forcemeat, made of roasted poultry, suet, parsley chopped, mushrooms, pepper, andsalt, and a few fine spices ; upon this place the tongues cut in two, and upon them a good slice of ham, a little butter, and a few slices of bacon; put t on the cover and bake it; when done, take out the bacon and ham, skim off all the fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. Sheep’s Tongues (Roasted).*—Take half-a . dozen sheep’s tongues, and having pro- perly prepared them, lard them with small i lardons, tie them to a skewer, wrap a but- tered paper round, and fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire; a little before they are done, take off the paper, baste the tongues with butter, and ! make them of a nice colour. Serve with whatever sauce you may prefer. Sheep’s Trotters (Fricassee of).*—Mash the feet well, changing the water frequently, then boil them in some stock ; when nearly done, take out all the bones, leave the meat in the saucepan, add to it a bunch of sweet herbs, a pinch of flour, salt and pepper; when perfectly tender, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and serve the feet with a little verjuice. Sheep’s Trotters d V Italienne* — Pat some sliced onions, very salt bacon, salt, pepper, mustard, and verjuice, into a sauce- pan, with a little veal gravy ; make it quite hot, and then put in the feet, prev.ously boiled in stock. In half an hour they will be sufficiently flavoured, then serve all together very hot. Sheep’s Trotters in Paste*—Put the feet into a pan with some melted butter, par- sley, scallions, morels, and streaked bacon; set them on the fire, and stew them. Cut some puff paste into twice as many pieces as you have feet, and in every two wrap a foot; close the ends nicely, do them over with yolk of egg. and bake tVem m a moderate oven. Tbe feet should not be boned. . Sheep’s Trotters(Stufed).*—Boil the feet in good stock till the bones will come out with ease; fill the space left by them with a good fowl or chicken/arc* ; dip them m lard, bread them well, and bake them m a moderate oven. . . The space left by the bones is sometimes