JAC 306 JAC fire till it boils; then add the yolks of two ego-s to thicken, stirring it well, hut with- out letting it boil; lastly, strain, and pour it over the fish. Jack or Pike a l Arlequvne.—Take a laroe jack, clean and scale it, take out the entrails by the gills ; raise the skin from one side, he careful not to injure the fish; lard a fourth part of it with anchovies, another quarter with gherkins, a third ■with carrots, and a fourth with truffles. Stuff it with a fish farce, put it into a fish- kettle ; moisten it with a braise ; do not, however, let the larded parts soak in it ; set it on the fire, basting frequently with its own liquor ; keep fire on the top as well as under it. When done, serve it over a sauce hackee. . Jack or Pike (Baked).-Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuit it with the following stuffing : Some grated bread crumbs, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, halt a pint ot cream, the yolks of four eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; rub it all over with butter, and bake it. Serve with a sauce of gravy, butter and anchovy. In helping a pike, the back and belly should be slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards; by this means there will be fervor bones given. Jack or Pike (Boiled) —Take a large jack, clean it, take out the gills ; make a stuffing with crumbs of bread grated fine, some sweet herbs chopped small, some grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, salt, some oysters chopped small, a bit of but- ter • mix all these ingredients together with the yolks of two eggs; put it into the fish, and sew it up; turn the tail into the mouth, and boil it in pump-water, with some vinegar and salt in it; when it boils put in the fish : if the fish is large, it will take about three quarters of an hour to boil. Serve with oyster sauce poured over the fish, and some also in a boat. Jack or Pike, Bride’s Fashion,-Cut a pike into several pieces, boning and flat- tening them as much as possible; roll a Eood farce round them; tie them in bits of cloth, and braise them in w]™ne and broth, with a bit of butter, bits o roots, a bundle of herbs, pepper, and salt When done, strip each bit, and servo with It sauce you ‘think proper ; arelishing sharp sauce* is generally considered the t0ftACK or Pike broiled as Cutlets.—The fillets of pike being taken off with a sharp knife, cut each fillet in a sloping manner into four or five pieces, at the same time taking off the skin ; toss them up in an egg, beaten up with pepper and salt; lay them on paper, bread crumb them, and with a fork take them up, and dip them into clarified butter, then in bread crumbs again ; broil them over a moderate fire of clear wood ashes, a good colour on both , sides; place them en couronne (in form of a crown) round the dish; squeeze the : juice of nearly half a lemon in four table- j spoonsful of butter sauce, mix this well 11 up with a bit of glaze ; when very hot, .: pour it into the centre of the fish. Jack or Pike a la Chambord.*—Take off the scales, and clean a good-sized jack; i remove the skin, and lard the fish, and ! i put it into a fish-kettle with a marinade; when it boils, take it out, and place it in ; the oven, basting it occasionally. As soon, l as it is sufficiently done, take it from the oven, let it drain, and then serve it: place . round it quenelles, veal sweetbreads larded, crayfish, artichoke bottoms, croutons, and a garniture a la Chambord* to these may be added pigeons a la Gautier, eels larded . with truffles, &c. Jack or Pike au Court-bouillon * Clean the fish without opening it, tie up the head, put it in the fish-kettle; pour the ■ court-bouillon over, and simmer it for an hour, or longer if the fish be large. Ii it ' is served as a rot, let it cool, then lay a napkin in a dish, place the fish on it, gar- ■ nished with parsley. Jack or Pike au Dauphin.*—Empty and . scale a large jack ; soak it in oil, with sweet herbs, salt and spices: pass a^ skewer through its eyes and the middle of the body, giving it the form of a dolphin; bake it, basting with the marinade, and serve it with capers or anchovy sauce. Jack or Pike Fricassee (White). Thoroughly wash the pike, then cut it into large pieces, and put them into a stewpao, with butter, some mushrooms, a dozen of small onions half boiled, some parsley, green shalots, two cloves, thyme, a bay leaf; soak these together some time, then add a pint of white wine and broth, salt, and whole pepper; boil on a quick fire, reduce the sauce; take out the parsley, shalots, cloves, thyme, and bay leaf, anil thicken with cream, eggs, and a little nut- meg, and a squeeze of lemon, provided wine does not make it sufficiently tart. Jack or Pike with Gravy *—Lard * jack with bacon ; line a stewpan with s >*** veal and bacon; lay your jack on them,