118 CAP CAN •remainder of the paste over, press down the edges, then cut the cannellous, leaving aquarter of an inch heyond the marmalade each way; press the paste together all round, to keep in the preserve; and when all are cut, put them into a pan and fry them ; when done, drain them in a napkin, and sprinkle them with powder sugar. Cannellons glacis. — Roll out some puff paste thin, and about eighteen inches square, and cut it into twenty-four strips : have hy you as many pieces of heech wood turned, about six inches long, and three quarters of an inch in diameter, a degree less at one end than at the other. Butter these pieces of wood, and having moist- ened your strips of paste, wind one round each of them, beginning at the smallest end, so as to form a sort of screw, four inches in length; lay them on baking- plates, pretty distant from each other, dorez and put them into a hot oven. When of a nice colour, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze; as soon as you remove them from the oven, take out the pieces of wood, and lay them on a cool slab. When wanted for table, fill them with apple or any other jelly you may choose. Cannellons Meringuis.* — Whip. the whites of two eggs, and having mixed them with two spoonsful of powder sugar, then mask the cannellons; when baked, crush a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and roll the cannellons in it; replace them a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. The masking of these cannellons may. be varied according to taste, with pistachios, dried currants, &c., the former, cut in pieces, the latter well washed, dried, and mixed with an equal quantity of sugar. Cannellons d la Parisienne—Slake .twenty pannequets, garnish them with apricot or quince marmalade ; roll them as usual, and then cut each in half, trim, and dip them in eggs, like croquettes, bread and fry them. When done, glaze and serve them immediately. These cannellons may also he covered with creams, or preserves of any kind you please. Cannellons Pro Unis with Filberts. — Mince a quarter of a pound of filberts, and mix them with two ounces of powder sugar, and a very little white of egg : pre- pare the cannellons as above; just before you put them into the oven, roll them m the filberts, so ns to cover them with that mixture; take care to return each to its place on the baking-plate; put them in a moderate oven, and colour them a good yellow. Finish as above. i Cannellons with Sugar*—Prepare the t cannellons as usual, roll them in grained j sugar, and finish. CAPERS to pickle. — The tree that hears capers is called the caper shrub or bush, of which they are the flower-buds. They are common in the western parts of Europe, and we have them in some of our gardens; but Toulon is the principal place for them. Some are sent us from Lyons* hut they are flatter, and not so firm. Some come from Majorca, but they are salt and disagreeable. They gather the buds from the blossoms before they open, then spread them upon the floor of a room where no sun enters, and there let them lie till they begin : to wither. They then throw them into a i tub of sharp vinegar, and after three days, , they add a quantity of bay salt. 11 hen i this is dissolved, they are fit for packing, , and are sent to all parts of Europe. The finest capers are those of a moderate size, firm, and close, and such as have the pickle highly flavoured. Those which are soft, flabby, and half open, are of little value. Capers fine and coarse* — The fine capers are made use of in garnishing dressed salads, and to put whole into sauces; the coarser sorts are used in sauces where it is necessary to chop up the capers. Caper Sauce-for Fish. — Take some melted butter, into which throw a small hit of glaze ; and when the sauce is in a state of readiness, throw into it some choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. Caper Sauce it la Franqoise.—Take some capers, cut them small; put some essence of ham into a small saucepan, with a little pepper; let it boil, then put in the capers, let them boil up two or three times, and pour into a boat. Caper Sauce (to imitate).—Boil some parsley very slowly, to let it become of a had colour, then cut it up (but do not chop it fine) ; put it into melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and then serve. Caper Sauce for Meat.—'lake some ca pers, chop half of them very fine, and put the rest in whole. Then chop some parsley with a little grated bread, and put to it some salt. Put them into butter, melted very smooth ; let them boil up, and tnen pour them into a sauce-boat. _ Caper Sauce for Meat.—Having soma