PEA PEA 406 put them on the fire in a pan with a suffi- cient quantity of thin clarified sugar to cover them, a stick of cinnamon, a little mace, and two or three cloves; let them stew gently till they begin to soften and look rather red, then put in a bottle of port wine, and let them continue stewing until perfectly done, and look very rich and red ; then put them in a basin or jar, with the liquor over them; they will he all the better for keeping four or five days. Pear Tart.—Pare your fruit carefully, cut them into quarters, and take out the cores; if large and green, boil them in a little water till soft; simmer them in some rich syrup, line a dish with puff paste, lay in the pears with the syrup, cover and hake it. PEAS (Boiled).—Set a large pan of spring water on the fire; when it boils, put in the peas with a handful of salt, and a stalk of mint; when done, drain them in a cullender, and toss them in a stewpan with a good hit of butter, a little salt and pepper ; if for the second course, he care- ful that they are the very youngest, and omit the pepper. Peas d la Bourgeoise*—Malee a light white roux, into which put your peas ; in a little while moisten them with a little boiling water, then add salt, pepper, four onions, a hunch of parsley and scallions, a lettuce chopped small, and reduce them ; when the peas are sufficiently done, putin the yolks of three eggs ; after which, take care that it does not boil. Serve them quite hot. Peas a. la Bourgeoise.—Cut two or three cabbage lettuces, or heads of endive, into squares, then fry three green onions in cla- rified butter, of a fine brown ; the lettuces being well washed and drained from the water, put them into the pan with the onions, and let them stew very gently till done, and then drain them on a sieve. Toss them together with the peas, and stew them the same as in the direction for peas stewed a la Fran false. Peas (Cullis of).—Boil some green peas in a little good stock with a hunch of par- sley, scallions, and savory, _ rub them through a sieve into a cullis ; if you wish it to ho very green, add a little spinach essence. Maigre Pens Cullis is mado in the sumo manner, only fish broth is used instead of the stock. Peas au Gras* — Take some fresh gathered peas, and having shelled, wash, and drain them well. Cut some streaky bacon into dice, which put into a stewp with a hunch of sweet herbs, set these on a gentle fire, and in half an hour add the peas, shaking the pan well; when the latter are about three parts done, moisten with veal gravy or consomme, and finish them. Serve with fried bread. Peas (to keep Green).—Shell and put them into a kettle of water when it boils ; give them two or three warms, dry and. bottle them. Peas a la Paysanne.—Prepare your peas as directed, a la Sefton; wash very clean some cabbage and cos-lettuces, a handful of parsley, and a few scallions; break them in pieces, and having drained, put them to the peas, and stew them over a slow fire, stirring frequently to prevent their burning j when sufficiently done, season with pepper and salt, and serve. Peas (Purge Potage of).*—Put about three pints of green peas into cold water, add to them a quarter of butter, which mix well with the peas by working them about with your hands, then, having drained them in a cullender, put the peas into a stewpan with a little parsley and a few scallions; set them on a moderate fire, stirring occa- sionally ; in half an hour’s time take them out, put them into a mortar, and pound them well; then rub them through a sieve, adding a little cold broth to enable them to pass through more easily ; make your puree very clear, heat it, and pour it on the bread about ten minutes before you serve it. Peas Pudding.*—Take a pint of good split peas, and having washed, soak them well in warm water: then tie. them loose in a cloth, put the pudding into a saucepan of hot water, and boil it until q uite soft. When done, beat it up with a little butter and salt, and yolks of two eggs; tie it up again tight and servo it with boiled pork or beef. J Peas in a Purge.—Proceed as directed for peas-soup, but let the puree be much thicker, and add a little more sugar and salt; this will serve to garnish a stewed leg of lamb, lamb or mutton cutlets, duck tewed, &c. , Peas (dry Purge «/).*— Having washed our peas thoroughly, put them into a aucepan with water, three carrots, three nions, two cloves, two heads of celery, a uarter of a pound of butter, and salt to ie taste ; having boiled them till the peas re suffieientlv done, take out the 0 l<?t egetables, and rub the peas * 11 "uj . . ieve. The purge should be rather thick