CAL 107 CAL the chaudron with a bit of butter, and some small onions with half a glass of stock. Cut some gruyere cheese into thin slices, melt it, and baste it with veal gravy i mixed with the yolks of two or three eggs; pour over this the chaudron and sauce, and brown it. Calf’s Chaudron fricassee.—Parboil a calf s chaudron, and when cold, cut it in pieces about as big as walnuts ; season them with salt, pepper, nutmeg', cloves, ) mace, an onion, tarragon, and parsley, . shred fine; fry them in a ladleful of good broth and fresh butter; make a sauce of mutton gravy, orange and lemon juice, ■eggs’ yolks, and grated nutmeg ; toss up I these ingredients with the chaudron, then | dish it and serve. Calf’s Chaudron Fritters.*■—Cook a pre- { pared chaudron with salt, parsley, scal- I lions, garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and two or three cloves. When sufficiently done, drain it, and clear away the fat, cut it small, and marinade it an hour in but- ter ; two spoonsful of vinegar, parsley, scallions, shalots (all minced), salt, and pepper ; warm the marinade, then take out the chaudron,and roll them up by degrees, making the herbs, &c. stick to them ; dip them in egg, bread, and fry them. Calf’s Chaudron, cl la Mariniere*— When the chaudron is prepared, cut it in Strips about three fingers long; soak them m stock, seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, and vinegar, over hot ashes; dip them in batter made of flour, yolks of eggs, and white wine, and fry them. Calf’s Chaudron Pie.—Make a ragout with a chaudron (previously boiled), mushrooms, parsley, shalots, garlick, a i glass of white wine, and cullis. A'Vhen quite done, cut the chaudron in slices, and put it with the sauce into a baked pull crust; skim the fat off, add pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Calf’s Chaudron a, la Prnvenfale.—Soak it well in lukewarm water to cleanse it thoroughly ; boil it in stock, then cut it in pieces and let it cool. Make a sauce with good stock, two spoonsful of oil, salt, ' pepper, garlic, dried mushrooms cut small; do these together, and when of a proper consistence, put the chaudron in i for about ten minutes. When done, add I lemon juice. Calf’s Chaudron Pudding*—Prepare : your chaudron, and cut into small pieces 1 the size of a nut; season with salt, pep. I Per, tarragon, scallions, spices, and pork Jut cut small; you may add some godioeau and the crumb of bread boiled in milk and beaten up with yolks of eggs. Soften some caul in warm water, lay them open on the table, and fill them with the above mixture; form them to any shape you please, and bake them; when crisp, they are ready to serve. Pour on them blond or veal gravy. Calf’s Chitterlings.—Choose some of the largest calves’ nuts, and having cleansed them, cut them in pieces, of whatever lengths you may think proper, and tie one end of each piece. Blanch a calf’s chaudron, and cut it into dice, with a calf’s udder and some bacon; put them into a stewpan with half a pint of cream, pounded spice, bay leaf, shalot, pepper, and salt, toss them up, take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs and some bread crumbs ; keep it warm and fill the chitterlings with it; tie up the other end and boil them, let them cool in their own liquor. When wanted, boil them over a moderate fire. Calf’s Chitterlings.—Cut into dice, some bacon, a calf’s udder, and the fat that comes from the chitterlings and calf's chaudron ; put them all into a stewpan with a bay leaf, salt, pepper, shalot cut small, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, with half a pint of milk, let it just simmer ; take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs, and some crumbs of bread ; fill the chitterlings with this mix- ture,, which must be kept warm, and make the links like hogs’-puddings. Before they are sent to table, boil them over a mo- derate fire; let them cool in their own liquor. Calf’s Chitterlings stewed.— Cut a calf’s nut lengthwise, in slices about an inch wide; take some ham, bacon, and white part of chickens, and cut them in the same way; put them into a stewpan with salt, peppei-, sweet herbs, and spice; then, having cleansed the guts, cut and tie them, fill them with the slices ; line a stewpan with shoes of bacon and veal, pepper, salt, bay- leaf, and an onion, lay in the chitterlings, cover them with bacon and veal, pour in a pint of white wine, put the lid down quite close, and stew them with fire, above and below, for some time ; then take out the puddings, and broil them in buttered papers. Calf’s Ears braised *—Scald, blanch, and clean the ears thoroughly from the hair, and braise them in the following way: But some good stock into a small sauce- pan, with half a pint of white wine, half a