the sugar in small squares all over; doing it as quick as possible, lest the sugar should cool before you have done; then pass the sword blade between the marble and the sugar ; lay under the latter sheets of paper; and when cold, break it into pieces according to the marks, and wrap each square in paper. Chocolate Bouchtes de Dames*—Make your bouchees de dames as directed (see that article), but lay them rather more of an oval form; when baked, take them from the papers. Then put two ounces of very fine sugar (sifted), and three ounces of grated chocolate, into a pan, with one and a half whites of eggs; stir it with a silver spoon for eight or ten minutes ; and having filled the bouchees with marmalade, mask them with this mixture; as you do them, strew crystallized sugar over, and place them carefully on a baking-plate covered with paper. When all are done, put them in the oven for five or six minutes, and serve them when cold. Chocolate Cannellons* Prepare twenty pannequets; mask them lightly with chocolate creampdtissiere; strew over them some crushed macaroons ; roll them out; cut them through the middle ; dip them in batter, and fry them : glaze, and serve them quite hot. Chocolate Comfits*—Take two ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a little water over the fire ; when it is dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it upon a pound of masse pain or sweet paste, to which add some cinnamon or vanilla at discretion; mix the whole well together; then spread it over some wafer shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. If the paste does not appear deep coloured enough, you may colour it with bolus Armenicum. Chocolate Conserve.*—Dissolve two Ounces of good chocolate in a little water, put it into a skillet with half a pound of sugar boiled to perlc; keep the sugar stir- ring, and when it boils put the conserve into moulds. Chocolate Conserve.* — Dissolve a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate in a sm;dl quantity of clarified sugar ; boil a pound of sugar to the premiere plume, put your chocolate into it, stirring it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. Chocolate Cream.*—Take a pint of milk, a gill of cream, the t'olks of three eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar; mix these ingredients together, set them on the fire, stir it constantly, turd let it boil till reduced to a quarter; then add two ounces of grated chocolate ; and hav- ing boiled a little longer, strain it, and let it cool. Serve it cold. Chocolate Cream.—Scrape two squares of chocolate, and put them in a stewpan, with half a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pint of milk, and half a pint of cream ; let it boil till a third is consumed, and when half cold, beat up the yolks of six eggs with it, strain the whole through a sieve, and then put the small cups or dish in which the cream is to be served into a pan containing enough boiling water to reach above halfway up the cream ; cover this pan, and put a little fire on the lid; when done, and the cream cool, serve. Chocolate Cream.—Scrape into one quart of thick cream one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth take it off, and leave it to be cold; then add die whites of nine eggs, whisk and take up die froth on sieves as others are done ; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Chocolate Cream.—Take about half a cake of chocolate, bruise it to pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little milk, and stir it over a gentie fire till it looks smooth and thick ; then add a litde more milk, and stir it again over the fire; continue diis till it takes the thickness of cream; sweeten it to your palate with clarified sugar ; stir in a litde thick cream with a very little isinglass, rub it through the tammv, and set it in the mould. Chocolate Cream.—Take a quart of cream, a pint of white wine, and a litde juice of lemon; sweeten it well, lay in a sprig of rosemary, grate some chocolate K and mix all together; stir it over the fire till it is thick, and pour it into your cups. Chocolate Cream au Bain-marie.*— Break a quarter of a pound of chocolate into small pieces, and dissolve it in a glass of water with a small quantity of vanilla and half a pound of sugar. IMien these ingredients are perfectly dissolved, add five glasses of boiling milk ; pour this mixture, a litde at a time, on the yolks of ten, and one whole egg ; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon, add a grain of salt, strain and finish as directed, Cream au Bain- marie. Chocolate Cream a la Franfaise. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water over