cus cus 219 quarters for the top. Bake it in a brisk oyep, for between two and three hours. When done, mask the top with apple jelly, apricot or currant marmalade, and the crust with apricot marmalade also. Custard (Plain).—Take a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cinnamon, four bay leaves, and some mace ; boil them all together; then well beat up twelve eggs, sweeten them, and put them into a pan; bake, or boil them, stirring them all one way, till they are of a proper thick- ness ; boil your spice and leaves first, and when tlie milk is cold, mix your eggs and boil it; you may leave out the spice, and only use the bay leaves, or in the room of that, four or five bitter almonds. Custard a la Portugaise.*—Choose about a hundred fine apples, from which select three dozen of the best; scoop out the core, and as you trim them, put them into a saucepan, with just water enough to cover them, adding the juice of two lemons, and two spoonsful of powder sugar; when scalded, put them into another saucepan, I 'with three quarters of a 'pound of powder sugar, the .peel of two lemons, and a suffi- cient quantity of water to boil them : in the mean time, cut the rest of the apples i into quarters, and make them into a mar- I malacle; to which, add a pot of apricot i marmalade, and a quarter of a pound of i fresh butter; pass this through a sieve. The whole apples must be taken from the • fire while they are jret firm. . Make a raised crust, about nine inches ' diameter, and five or six in height; in which put a fourth part of the marmalade; lay a dozen of the whole apples on that, having filled each apple with apricot mar- malade ; cover them with the marmalade (the same quantity as at the bottom), then a dozen more apples; mask them also with marmalade, and so again with the remaining fruit and marmalade. Tie a thick paper round the crust, and put it : into a brisk oven; in an hour’s time cover I the top, and then let it remain two hours ‘ longer. When done, mask the crust with a very transparent apricot marmalade, and tlie top with a clear apple jelly. This cus- tard may be garnished in various ways according to taste. Custard Pudding.*—Mix a pint of cream with six eggs, well beaten, two spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg grated, and salt and sugar to taste ; butter a cloth, and pour in your batter; tie it up, put it mto a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour and a half. Serve with melted butter for sauce. Custard Pudding.—Boil a pint of thick cream, with a bit of cinnamon in it, and put to it a quarter of a pound of sugar. When it is cold, put to it the yolks of five eggs, well beaten, and stir it over the fire till it is pretty thick; but take care not to let it boil. When it is quite cold, butter a cloth well, dust it with flour, tie the cus- tard up in it very close, and boil it three quarters of an hour. When you take it up, put it into a basin to cool a little ; un- tie the cloth, lay the dish on the basin, and turn it up. You will break the pudding, if you do not take off the cloth carefully. Grate over it a little sugar, put melted butter and a little wine in a boat, and send it to table. Custard (Small) Soujjlees.*—Put two ounces of rice flour and two of butter into a saucepan ; mix them together well, and add to them a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and two glasses of cream, in which a small quantity of vanilla has been in- fused ; put this mixture over a moderate fire, and boil it like a cream patissiere. Then put to them the yolks of four eggs, two spoonsful of whipped cream, and the four whites, beaten firm. Make the paste for the moulds the same as Petits Pdtds a. la Eechamelle, and when half baked, pour in your preparation, and finish them. When done, they should not stand a minute be- fore they are sent to table. These small custard souffids may be made with any fruit, and flavoured with any ingredient you may think proper to use. Custard a, la Suisse.*—Put nine glasses of milk and half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, and when it begins to boil, take it from the fire, and add to it from eighteen to twenty ounces of sifted flour, stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a smooth paste, when it must be dried a little over the fire; in about five minutes put it into another vessel; mix with it six ounces of butter, a pound of Cruyere cheese grated; add afterwards, a spoonful of mignonette, two ofpowder sugar, and four eggs ; mix them well together, and then put in four more eggs, six yolks, and halt a pound of G ruyere cheese, cut in dice. When the whole is thoroughly incorporated, if the paste be not sufficiently moist (it should be of the consistence of the choux), add an egg or two, then whip six whites of eggs firm, and put it in with six spoonsful ot Chantilly cream. Pour