it up, bake, nnd when cold, fill it up with clarified butter. BUTTER.—The milk intended for but- ter should stand for twenty-four Lours in the summer, and double that time in the winter season ; skim the milk before the 6un has warmed the dairy, as it should be kept during the whole of the operation as cool as possible. If the churn can be plac- ed in a tub of water it will give consist- ence to the butter. When the butter is come, pour oil' the buttermilk, put the butter into a clean pan, pour water on it, and let it become firm before you work it; change the water, and beat it well with flat boards, changing the water frequently. When the taste of the buttermilk is quite gone, and the water quite clean, work a little salt into it, weigh and make it up into the proper forms, and put them in cold water into an earthenware pan with a cover. If not convenient to chum daily, the Cream should be put into very clean pans until the next churning. Butter, how- ever, ought to be made twice a week, at least; in hot weather it requires much more working than in cold, and not the slightest flavour of the buttermilk should be suffer- ed to remain. Persons who have not na- turally a cool hand, should never attempt to make butter. In winter, when the cows feed on tur- nips, the butter has an unpleasant flavour, to prevent which, when the milk is brought into the dairy, put a quart of boiling wa- ter to every two gallons of milk, and let it stand as usual for cream. A quarter of a pint of warm spring water, in which nitre has been dissolved, put to ten or twelve of new milk, will also counteract the above flavour. • Burrtn Biscuits.*—Make a paste as for sweet biscuits, and when you have put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces of melt- ed butter, after it has cooled a little ; mix them together a short time with a wooden spoon, and put it into buttered moulds, which must only be filled three parts, as the paste pufts up considerably, and would rise from the moulds, without care. Butter (Blade)*—Put, half a pound of butter in a saucepan on the side of your stove, so that it may just heat sufficiently to colour it; do not skim it. Into a large glass of vinegar put all sorts of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, salt, pepper, ™'d a sliced shalot, reduce this over the •fire to one fourth of the quantity, add it to the coloured butter, rack the whole off clear, and pass it through a fine sieve. Use as wanted. Butter (Black).*—Fry a piece of but- ter in a fryingpan until it is quite black, taking care not to burn it; skim and pour it over whatever you may wish to serve it with ; put your fryingpan again on the fire, and put a little vinegar into it with a little salt; when it boils, pour it over the butter. Butter (Black). — Three pounds of fruit, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, and cherries, to a pound of coarse sugar, boiled till quite thick. It must waste to half the quantity. Butter, Borders of.* — Take some Montpellier butter (either green or red) and spread it equally over two saucepan- lids, laying it about three eighths of an inch in thickness ; place the lids on pound- ed ice, and when the butter is congealed remove it with the blade of a knife, and lay it on a napkin ; then, with a tin paste- cutter, or stamp of whatever figure you may choose, cut the butter, and place them in borders according to your fancy. Take care to dip your stamp in cold water frequently, as that will enable you to keep the edges of the butter sharp. Butter Borders (common).*—If you have no Montpellier butter, take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, work it up well with a knife, mixing with it either of the following- colouring materials: For rose- colour, a little infusion of carmine, or any vegetable red ; green, spinach juice; yel- low, an infusion of saffron ; violet, a little Prussian blue added to the red ; orange, the red and yellow joined together ; the remainder of the operation is performed as above. Butter (Burnt) Sauce. — Fry some butter; when it begins to smoke, throw into it some chopped parsley ; when suf- ficiently done, add pepper, salt, and vine- gar. Butter Cakes.—Beat a dish of butter with your hands to a cream, add two pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried flour, and twenty-four eggs; leave out half the whites, and then beat all to- gether for an hour: when you are going to put it in the oven add a quarter of an ounce of mace and a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds and currants, if you think proper. Butter (to clarify).'—Scrape off the outside of the butter you may require, and then put it into a stewpan by the side of a slow fire, where it must remain till the