POT 441 POT into pieces with a root-cutter, blanch them; put them into a saucepan with some good i consommC, cook the above roots in this, putting in the onions last; add to these some young peas, sorrel, lettuces (cut small),young broad beans, asparagus heads, French beans, and cucumbers,cut in pieces; boil all these with the first-mentioned arti- cles, a lump of sugar, and a pinch of salt " and shred parsley. Reduce the whole to a glaze ; serve it, either with or without bread, in a puree of green peas or some good consomme. Potage a la Heine*—Take three or four cold roast chickens, cut off all the meat, and pound it well with two table-spoonsful of rice (previously boiled in water for a quarter of an hour), dilute it with some >, good consomme, and strain it; then add a sufficient quantity of consomme to the puree to make it of the requisite consistence; put the hones of the chickens into the above, and let it simmer over a small fire - for two hours ; about a quarter of an hour 1 before dinner pour some of it over tire bread to soak it as usual; just before serv- ing, strain the whole through a fine sieve. Potage a la Reine. — Another way. Take the meat from two cold fowls, well pound it together with the yolks of eight hard eggs, and the crumb of two French rolls previously soaked in milk ; boil a few blades of mace and two heads of celery in some white stock, strain this to the fowl, and rub it through a tammy; set it in the bain-marie, and add sugar and salt to j taste; just before sending to table, pour in , three gills of boiling cream. You may j serve either rice, Italienne paste, or vermi- 1 celli, previously boiled in the soup. Potage a la Sainte Men6hould*— For '• this potage you must have eight or nine clear carrots, scraped, cut in quarters, and I the inside white taken out, then boil it i with six heads of celery in a stewpan of i water with a spoonful of salt, till perfectly I tender; put them in a sieve for a few mi- | nutes, then stir them in a stewpan with i two ounces of butter, on a slow fire, for a quarter of an hour, with a little salt, a small lump of sugar, and one handful of peppercorns; when they are well washed, put in a ladleful of good veal gravy or espair- nole, and when it boils rub it through* a j tammy; add a pint more of the gravy I when die whole is put into the soup pot, . till within one hour of the dinner, then i place it on the stove to boil gently; hav- I ing some vegetables prepared the same as ; i in vegetable soup, well stewed down in a quart of good consomme, put them in the puree for ten minutes; before serving, skim and stir it gently, then pour it in the tureen. Potage a la Viennet*—Take some slices of crumb, about half an inch thick, cut them into squares, ovals, or circles, ac- cording to your fancy ; they must, how- ever, be all of the same shape and size, twenty or thirty are sufficient; fry them in a quarter of a pound of butter over a brisk fire ; when they are of a nice colour, lay them on a cloth to drain, then put them into a soup-tureen, and ten minutes before you serve, pour on them any sort of clear puree you may think proper. Potage a la Xavier.*-—Take a pound of flour, six yolks, two whole eggs, a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of stock or broth to make the above into a thin paste, to which add a spoonful of shred parsley, some grated nutmeg, a little pepper, and mix them well. Pour some good stock or broth into a saucepan till about three parts full, set it on the fire, and when it boils take a skimmer, through which rub the above-mentioned paste; he careful to keep it constantly boiling, that the paste may stiffen, and skim it well. A quarter of an hour is sufficient time to do this potage. POTATOES a, la Anglaise*Having- well washed as many potatoes as you may require, boil them in salt and water; when nearly done, pare and cut them into slices, then put them into some melted butter, and fry them lightly; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; serve them dry. Potatoe Cheesecakes*—Pare and boil thoroughly half a pound of the best kind of potatoes; when quite done, rub them through a sieve, and mix with them two eggs well beaten, a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a paste, a few cur- rants, a little spice, and grated bread. Lay this on puff-paste, like other cheesecakes, and hake. Potatoe Biscuits*—Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs with a pound of sifted sugar, grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of lump sugar; scrape off' the yellow sugar with a knife, and having dried it well, add it to the above, and continue to beat till it becomes quite white; in the meantime whip up an equal number of whites, and mix them lightly with the rest; then sift into it half a pound of potatoe flour ; stir it in, and pour the preparation into paper cases, but not to fill them ; glaze, and place the cases on paper laid on a clean baking- tin, and bake in a moderate oven.