510 VEA VEA shred p arsley, shalots, pepper, salt, nut- meg, and tlie yolks of three eggs. Cut off the ends of the rib-bones of a breast of veal, make an incision between the top of the meat and the ribs, which fill with as much of the farce as it will hold, then sew it up, that none of the farce may escape; lay the veal in a braising-pan between rashers of bacon ; add some potle, and stock, if neces- sary, and braise it for three hours. When done, let it drain, untie and glaze it. Put some reduced espagnole, a bit of glaze, and an ounce of butter, into the liquor; let the latter dissolve, stir it well, and pour jt over the breast of veal. Veal (Breast of) enSurtout.*—Take a fine breast of veal, hone it, take off all the skin, and lay it on a dish; make a fine farce, which spread all over the meat to the thickness nf an inch ; then roll it up with two or three small pigeons, some morels, veal sweetbreads, artichoke bottoms, &c.; cover the breast with fillets of fowl or game, and the javce ; envelop the whole in a thick caul, wash it over with yolk of egg, cover it completely with bread crumbs, and bake it of a nice colour. Serve it with yeal gravy. This joint ought to be partly dressed in good stock before it is put en sari put. Veal Chops a la Belle Cue*—Lard half a dozen handsomely-cut chops with udder, truffles, and tongue a Vecarlate, and then lay them in a stewpan on slices of bacon ; cover them with the same ; season them with pepper and salt, and add two carrots, two onions (one watli two cloves in it), and a bouquet; pour in a glass of Madeira wine, and a ladleful of consonmd ; set them on a brisk fire, which lessen after a short time, and leave the chops on for an hour. When done, press out all the moisture ; as soon as they are cold, trim, glnzo, and lay the chops on a dish, garnished with whites of eggs, truffles, and gherkins; pour into the middle of them a green mag- nonnaise, and put round the edge of the dish a border of jelly. Veal Chops (Breaded).*—Take six or seven handsomely-cut chops, season them well with salt and pepper, and put them into melted butter ; when sufficiently soak- ed, put them into beaten eggs, take them out, and roll each separately in bread crumbs; make the chops as round us you can with your knife, and lay them on a dish; when are breaded, broil them slowly over a moderate fire, that the bread may not be too highly coloured. Serve with clear gravy. Veal Chops d la Dreux.—Lard some well-cut chops with bacon and ham, sea- son with pepper, salt, and spices, and brown them in some batter, then trim them nicely. Put into a stewpan some rashers of bacon, slices of veal, the same of carrots, trvo cloves, a bay leaf, parsley, and scallions ; lay the chops in, cover them with bacon and a buttered paper ; moisten with a ladleful of consomme, and stew them for an hour and a half, then drain, glaze, and serve them with any sauce you please. Veal Chops Fondantes.*—Separate the chops from the bones, take out all the si- .news, and mince the meat very small, and also some streaked bacon; mix them toge- ther, and season the whole with pepper, salt, and spices; spread this/arce on pieces of caul, making each the shape of a chop ; bury a hone in every one, so that the end only will be seen; cover these writh bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, and then fry them in lard; let the pan be very hot. Serve them dry, or not, as you please. Veal Chops en Lorgnette.*—Beat the chops rather flat, and lard them with ba- con, seasoned with pepper, salt, and spices; brown them in some butter,and trim them nicely. Cut seven pieces of tongue, a Vecarlate, of the size of a halfcrown, and nearly half an inch thick ; cut some large onions into round slices the same thickness, but rather larger; take as much from the centre of the latter ns the tongue wall fill up ; make as many of these as you have chops, upon which place them; then stew the chops as for la Dreux. M hen done, glaze the chops and the tongue, but not the onion, and dish them ; reduce the sauce with a little espagnole, and pour it into tire dish with them. Veal Chops en Papillotes*—Cut and trim your chops as usual; and put them into a pan, with some butter, salt, and pepper ; set them on the fire, and let them remain till nearly done; then place them on a dish, and pour the butter, with some sweet herbs, over them. 1 ake as many pieces of paper as you have chops (each sufficiently large to contain a chop), oil them well, lay on every one a thin slice of bacon, and (when cold) a chop with the herbs on both sides, then another thin slice of bacon; fold these up in the paper as close as possible ; make die ends quite se- cure to prevent even the butter from escaping, and broil them over a slow fire, that they may be thoroughly done, and