GAT 27 3 GAT Garniture a la Flamande.*—Cut thirty carrots, and as many turnips, into pieces about two inches and a half long, and not quite one in diameter, which boil in a > consomme, with a little sugar; take thirty lettuces, braised with cabbages (see that article); drain, press, and trim them, then lay them round a dish alternately as fol- lows : a lettuce, a carrot, and a turnip, leaving the centre of the dish for such meat as you majr think proper to use; have ready thirty glazed onions, to gar- ; nish your lettuces, &c. When the meat (or whatever you fill the middle of the , dish with), is ready for table, pour over it a nivernuise, reduced and mixed with a little reduced espagnole. Garniture en Ragout.*—Put into a ( saucepan some cocks’ combs and kidneys, * fiit livers, lamb sweet-breads, truffles, quenelles, mushrooms; pour over these • sufficient espagnole travaillee; or, if you i wish your ragout white, put the yolks of 1 three or four eggs into some veloute, and | use that to dress the above articles, instead of the espagnole. GATEAU de Ccmpiegne.*—Take three > pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, an , ounce and four drachms of yeast, an ounce , of salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a t glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve : whole eggs, and five or six spoonsful of ( whipped cream. I With these ingredients proceed as fol- : lows : Sift the flour, of which put a fourth I part on the slab, make a hole in the middle, | put into it a glass of warm water and the , yeast; mix them together as lightly, and ‘ with as much despatch, as possible, adding I m°re warm water if necessary; when well worked up for some minutes, gather it ;together (it ought to leave the slab and the hand Ireely) ; put it into a saucepan; i cover it, and place it in a tolerably warm i situation to rise. Take the rest of the flour, lay it on the slab, make a hole in 'the middle of it, in which put the salt, .sugar, and cream; stir these together well, and then put in the eggs, one at a itime (break them into a basin, in case all should not be good) ; the eggs being put w, add by degrees the butter, stirring them well; then mix the flour, a little at i a time, with the above, until the whole is formed into a smooth paste; more eggs must be added if it be too stiff; work "it UP a little, and then add the leaven; work that in ; and lastly, put in 'the whipped cream. The whole operation hmng thus performed, have ready a cvljn- drical fluted mould (about eight inches in diameter, and nine in height); butter it by means of a sponge, being careful that it^ is done in all parts, otherwise the gateau will adhere to it; place the mould in a moderately warm place, but where there is a free current of air. When the gateau has risen so as to fill the mould, and the surface is a little inflated, it should be put into the oven instantly; if not, it falls and becomes heavy. The oven must be of a moderate heat, and kept closed while the gateau is baking ; take it out in about an hour, and if it be flexible and light coloured, replace it for thirty or forty minutes ; but if, on the contrary, it is red, and firm to the touch, place a tin plate on the top, and put it in the oven till done; remove the mould with care, and the gateau is finished. If the mould does not come away quite so well as it ought, strike it gently with a spatula. When taken out, put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. This gateau is sometimes varied by the addition of six ounces of sugared anise and the same quantity of dry currants. Gateau de Compidgne, with Angelica and Cherries*—Three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, one ounce of salt, six of sugar, six of preserved angelica, the same of preserved cherries, the zestes of three cedrats, half a glass of brandy, three or four glasses of milk, twelve whole ego-s, twelve yolks, and two pounds of butter? Cut the angelica into small pieces; put it into a basin, with sugar on which the cedrats have been rubbed, the brand y and cherries well drained, and each cut in half. The other parts of the operation are exactly the same as Gateau de Compidgne. Gateau a la Fraurraise.—Take three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, one ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, the zestes of four oranges, half a glass of rum three quarters of a pound of dry currants’ twelve eggs, the same number of yolks,’ three glasses of cream, and two pounds of butter. Grate the zestes of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and as it colours the su°-ar scrape off the surface lightly; take six ounces of this sugar, crush it completely and put it into a pan, with the rum and the currants (thoroughly washed); having stirred it well, cover the pan, and s°t it. aside. Then sift the flour, make your leaven with a fourth part of it, „s usual, (see Gateau Ramie,we); put the butter ami eggs inlo a pan, and mix them the T