193 CRA CRA palate. Mix it all well together; butter a dish and pour it in. Bake it, and when done throw fine sugar over, and serve it up. New milk will do when you cannot get cream. Cowslip Wine*—One gallon of water, three pounds of lump sugar, one Seville orange, and one lemon to every gallon of cowslip pips. First boil the sugar and water an hour, skim it clear, and when boiling, pour it out, and let it stand till nearly cold; then put it into the barrel, upon the pips, and about a tea-cupful of yeast to eight gallons of wine. Peel half the number of oranges and lemons, squeeze the juice into the cask, cut the remainder into slices, which add with the peels. When the fermentation ceases, or has lasted a sufficient time, put to the whole a little brandy. CRABS.—If fresh, the joints of the legs will be stiff, and the inside has an agreeable smell. When light, they are watery; therefore, always choose the heaviest. They are stale when the eyes look dead. Crab (to boil).*■—Choose your crab of the middling size, put it into boiling- water with salt in it, keep it boiling for about three quarters- of an hour; when done, wipe the shell quite clean, and rub it over with a little butter. Before they are sent to table, the large claws should be broken off, and the shell cracked carefully, and the body sent up whole. Crabs browned, and served in the Shell.—• Leave the great shell whole, mince all the fish, shred some parsley, mushrooms or truffles, a little young onion; fry these; put in the minced crab, with the inside bruised, some pepper, salt, and grated lemon peel; stir this about, shake on some flour, and add a little lemon juice, with some good gravy; let this simmer up; fill the shell or shells ; strew over bread crumbs; brown them in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. Crab (Buttered).—Pick out the fish, bruise the inside, beat in a little gravy, with a little wine, some pepper, salt, nut- meg, a few bread crumbs, a piece of butter, with a very little flour, some vinegar or lemon juice. You may brown it. Crab (Farced)—Boil a crab, take the meat out of the shell, and mince the claws with a fresh eel; season it with salt cloves, mace, and sweet herbs, shred small; mix them with the yolks of eggs ; add grapes, gooseberries, or barberries, and boiled artichokes cut in dice, if in season, or asparagus boiled; some almond paste, the meat of the body of the crab, and some bread grated ; fill the shells with this compound, and also make some of it into balls, put them into a dish with white wine and butter, and bake them in a gentle oven ; when they are baked, put them into another dish, and serve them with beaten butter, large mace, scalded grapes, goose- berries, or barberries, slices of orange or lemon, and the yolks of raw eggs dissolved in claret or white wine, and beat up with thick butter ; pour this on the fish, garnish with slices of lemon, stick the balls of farced meat with pistachios, sliced almonds, pine apple seeds, or some pretty cuts in paste. Crab Pie.—Take half a dozen crabs, boil them, and take the meat out of the shells, season it with salt and nutmeg, then soak the meat taken out of the bodies with claret wine, cinnamon, some ginger, butter, and juice of orange; make your pie, lay some butter in the bottom, lay in the meat with artichoke bottoms, the yolks of three or four hard eggs, chopped small; asparagus, large mace, barberries, grapes, dates, slices of oranpe and butter. When it is baked, liquor it with some of the meat out of the bodies of the crabs, mingled with cream or drawn butter. CRACKNELS.—Mix a quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonsful of rose water, into a stiff paste, with cold water * then rub in a pound of butter, and make into a cracknel shape; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim; then take them out, and put them into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. Cracknels (Small Soft).*—Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them to a fine paste, adding to them by degrees six eggs; when thoroughly pound- ed, pour on them a pound of powder sugar, the same of butter, and the rinds of two lemons grated ; beat up these ingredients in the mortar : put a pound of flour on a slab, and having poured the almond paste on it, knead them together until they are well incorporated ; roll it out, and cut the cracknels into such forms as you may think proper, rub them witli yolk of egg, and strew over them powder sugar or cinna- mon : then lay them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven, taking great care that they do not burn. When done, put them into glasses, and if preserved o