50 BEE BEE of pickled cucumbers, small mushrooms stewed, blanched oysters, some good seasoned cullis, and heat it gently. Beep Chitterlings.—Take the entrails of beef, carefully clean them, cut them, and marinate them five or six hours in a glass of Madeira, or other white wine, two cloves of garlic, thyme, bay, and basil; ut into fillets some ox palates, or ox tongue and tripe, each first three parts boiled ; also cut into small pieces, cow’s udder and pickled pork; mix the ■whole of these together, and add sliced onions, fried in butter or lard, four yolks of eggs raw, salt, and the best spices ; with these fill the entrails, and boil them half an hour in fat broth, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, three spices of cloves, sliced carrots and parsnips, and let them cool in their liquor. W ipe them well before you broil them. Beef Cullis.—Roast a piece of buttock of beef very brown ; then cut off all the brown part, and whilst hot beat it in a mortar, with some partridge (or fowl), and crusts of bread, then put it into a stewpan with some strong gravy and good broth; season with salt, pepper, cloves, thyme, sweet basil, and a piece of green lemon. Give the whole four or five boilings, then strain it for use. Beef a la Daube.—Take a round, a rump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with bacon, half roast it, or fry it brown ; put it into a stewpan or a pot that will just bold it; add some gravy, an onion stuck with cloves, half a pint of white wine, a gill of vinegar, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, cloves, mace, and salt; cover it down very close, let it but just simmer till it is tender; take two ox palates, two sweetbreads, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, stew them all together in some Espagnole, and pour over the beef; have ready some forced meat balls fried, make some long, others round, dip some sippets into batter, fry and cut them three-corner ways, and stick them into the meat; lay the balls round the dish. Beef Dalpettes a l’Italienne*—Take some cold roast fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop up your meat as small as possible, and put into a re- duced boiling Spanish sauce, adding a little crumb of bread, a little] grated Par- mesan cheese, some whole pepper, and two eggs; then leave it to cool. When cold, mould them into large balls; rub them over with egg, and then strew them over with grated Parmesan cheese and bread crumbs, fry them in clarified i butter or batter; let them drain, serve ‘ them on a dish, with love-apple sauce over: them. Beef Ears.—Beef ears, well scalded I like calves may be made tender in ail strong braise, lull of strong herbs and spices; they should be afterwards broiled, and served with a cullis or relishing sauce. Beef a. Vicariate.*■—Take a rump of ' | beef, bone it, lard it, season it with salt ; and spices, rub it well with saltpetre. I Put it into a pan with juniper berries, | thyme, basil, garlic, cloves, and onions l cut in slices; cover the pan close, so as to exclude all air. At the end of five or six days, turn your beef, cover the pan again, and let it remain for five or six days longer; then take it out of the pan, put it in a clean cloth and tie it with pack- thread, then put it into a stewpan with some water, carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew for several hours, according to the size of your meat. When it is done, serve it in a tureen, and pour over it the liquor in which it has stewed. You may serve it the next day as a cold dish. Beef (Entre-cute of) broiled*—Take the slice of beef which is obtained between any two of the ribs, and take out the sinewy parts, then cut it to about the thickness of two fingers, beat it flat, and sprinkle it over with salt and pepper. Put it on the gridiron over a clear fire. When it is done, serve it with a sauce a la maitre d’hotel or a snuce piquante. Beef (Fillet of) a VAmiral.—Slice fiva or six onions, and fry them in butter; then take two anchovies, split them into several pieces, a little grated bacon, two yolks of eggs, a little salt, and powder of basil; scald the fillet of beef in boiling water, cut in different slices without separating, and between them put some of the stuffing; tie it up in veal caul and roast it; serve with cullis, broth, and lemon. Beef (Fillet of) and Anchovies.—Soak five or six anchovies in water about two hours, split them, and lay the fillet with them intermixed with bacon; boil it on a slow fire, with a little broth and a glass of white wine, one clove of garlic, two cloves, and a faggot; when done, sift the sauce, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of cream, and a few small capers whole; add a liaison, and serve it upon the fillet.