337 MAC MAC Macaroni an Gratia.*—Cay fried bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your ma- caroni in the usual way, and pour it into the disk; smooth it all over, and strew bread crumbs on it, then a pretty thick layer of grated Parmesan cheese; drop a little melted butter on it, and colour it with a salamander. Macaroni a la Napolitaine.*—Boil two pounds of macaroni for half an hour, in salt and water; then put it into a cullender to drain. Take three quarters of a pound of Parmesan cheese grated; put a layer of macaroni in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layer of macaroni, the cheese, and so on, alternately, till both are used up, mail- ing the Parmesan the top; pour over it some gravy, a Idtouffade ; melt half a pound of fresh butter, and put on the whole. Serve it very hot. Macaroni aui Parmesan.—Having boiled your macaroni in the usual way and well drained it, make a thick sauce with half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, a quar- ter of a pound of fresh butter, two spoons- ful of bechamel, and a little cream; stir till it boils and is well mixed ; add a little salt and some mixed mustard; throw your ma- caroni into it, simmer, and toss the pan so as to well cover and mix the ingredients, and serve very hot. Macaroni and Parmesan Cheese Soup.— Take a quarter of a pound of macaroni, boil it till tender in a quart of veal stock; then add three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little pounded mace, five pints more of veal stock ; boil all together five minutes, and rub it through a tammy; then boil it again for ten minutes, skim it, season it with salt and Cayenne pepper to the palate; and add a liaison with the yolks of four eggs, and some cream. Macaroni (Pottage of ).*—Take half a pound of macaroni, break it in small pieces, boil and drain it, dress it in a consomme, similar to that for mock turtle soup ; pour it into your tureen, and serve grated Parmesan separately. Macaroni Pudding.—Take an ounce or two ol the pipe sort of macaroni, and simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon peel and cinnamon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, three eggs, but only one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of almond water, and half a glass of raisin wine ; lay a nice paste round the edge of the dish, and put it in the oven to bake. if you choose you may put in a layer of orange marmalade or raspberry jam : in this case you must not put in the almond water, or ratafia, you would otherwise add to flavour it. Macaroni (to Serve').—Simmer it in a little stock, with pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate over it a good deal of cheese, then over that put bread grated very fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen cullender all over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separate crumbs, and look light. / Macaroni (to Serve).—Wash it well, and simmer it in half milk, and half of veal or mutton stock, till the macaroni is tender; then take a spoonful of the liquor, put to it the yolk of an egg, beaten in a spoonful of cream; just make it hot to thicken, but do not let it boil; pour it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over it, and add bits of butter; brown it nicely with the salamander. Macaroni Soup.—Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till it is quite tender; then take out half, and put it into another stewpan. To the re- mainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve. Then put it to the two liquors, adding a pint or more of boiling- hot cream, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Par- mesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil; serve it with the crust of Trench roll, cut into small pieces. Macaroni (Steuied).—Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in beef stock, till nearly done ; then strain it, and add a gill ot cream, two ounces of butter, a table spoonful of the essence of bam, three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little Cayenne pepper and salt; mix them over a fire for five minutes, then put it on a dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over it, smooth it over with a knife, and colour it with a very hot salamander. Macaroni (Timbale of').*—Take some puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow bands; twist each into a kind of cord, which place round the insides of buttered moulds, snail fashion ; fill each mould with macaroni, cover the tops with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of each) ; put the timbales into a warm oven, and bake them three quarters of an hour; then turn them on a dish, and serve. z