VEA 506 VEA dish, and serve ; garnish with parsley and aspio jelly. Veal Cakes*—Take three quarters of a pound of lean veal, a quarter of a pound of beef suet, half the rind of a lemon, a little mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little shalot; mixthese together, beat them well in a marble mortar, make them into small cakes, fry them, and send them up in a good gravy, either white or brown. Veal C-annellonsCut your veal into very thin slices, all the same size, at least three inches square; lay on each slice some godiveau, roll it up, so that it may not be more than an inch thick ; fasten all the edges with white of egg, so that they may look like pieces of cane; stew them in a covered pan, with veal gravy and con- somme ; when done, drain them, strain the sauce, take off all the fat, and let it cool, to glaze the cannellons. Veal Collops.*—Cut some cold veal into thin slices, the size and thickness of a half- crown, dip them into the yolk of an egg well beaten, cover them with bread crumbs, sweet herbs, lemon peel shred fine, and grated nutmeg. Put a little fresh butter into a pan, make it quite hot, fry the veal in it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the side of the fire ; make a little gravy of a bone of veal, shake a little flour into the pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little lemon juice, pour it over the veal, and garnish with lemon. Veal Collops.*—Cut some cold roast veal into dice, and give them a toss up over the fire in a little butter, with a pinch of flour; then add a little stock, shred par- sley,and scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; keep it on the fire till the sauce adheres to the mince ; then put the whole on a dish. Make a paste as for apple pie ; roll out this very thin, and lay the cold mince in little heaps on half of it; turn the other half over it, cut it round these little heaps, pinch the edges of all to keep in the meat, and fry your collops. Veal Florentine.—Take two vcnlkidneys, and mince them with their fat, very small, and mix it with a few currants, the yolks of four or five eggs boiled hard and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, some bread crumbs, candied lemon peel cut small, and season with nutmeg, cloves, mace, a little mountain wine, and some orange-flower water; line the bottom of a dish with a nice puff paste, put in the above, cover it with puff paste, and set it to bako in a slow oven. Veal Fricandeau.—This should be cut from the leg of veal, of that part where the lean is in a compact lump, and when cut out and trimmed is undivided by skin or sinews. You may lard it or not; then trim the bottom of the stewpan with a carrot, turnip, onions, and celery sliced, two bay leaves, whole pepper, allspice, cloves, and mace, a bunch of herbs, and a clove of garlic ; cover all this with thin slices of fat bacon, place your fricandeau on that, add some pot-top, and a pint of water, cover the whole with paper, and keep the cover close ; let it stew gently lor three hours ; take the paper off, and put live charcoal on the lid, so as to brisk up the larding and make it a nice colour ; when enough take it out and glaze it nicely; and serve with either tomata sauce, sorrel, endive, or spinach, or what you like. Veal Fritters.*—Cut the remains of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, round pieces; dip these into a good batter, and fry them in the usual way, in oil. V hen done, drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve them. Veal (Grenade of).*—Take a ttoix of veal, cut it into four pieces, all of the same size, and lard them ; take also a very fine fowl, season them moderately, and partly dress them ; butter the interior of a plain deep mould, in the centre of which put a large ball offarce, place the four pieces at the four corners, between them a piece ot the fowl (using only the white parts) ; fill up the intermediate spaces withcrayiish.and all the interstices 'with farce ; pour in some jelly to fix the different articles together. Be careful to place the backs of the cray- fish and the larded parts of the veal against the sides of the mould, and put some truffles into the jelly before it is poured in. Set the mould "in a cool place, and when the jelly is congealed, dip it an instant into boiling water, and then turn it out. Veal Ham.—Take two ounces of salt- petre, one pound of bay, and one pound of common, salt, and one ounce ot juniper berries, bruised ; rub some of this well into a leg of veal cut ham fashion ; lay the skinny side downwards at first, but let it be well rubbed and turned every day for a fortuight; then hang it in wood smoke for a fortnight. It may be boiled or parboiled, and then roasted. Veal (Haricot o/).—Take a neck or breast of veal (if the neck, cut the bones short), and half roast it; then put it into a stewpan with just sufficient brown grai l to cover it, and when nearly done, ni