136 CHA CHA celery is perfectly mashed, stir in three table-spoonsful of sauce townie, and when this is well boiled rub the whole through a tammy; add a pint of strong consammi, and nearly as much thick cream. Put it into the soup-pot, and half an hour before you want it, set it on the lire to boil, and skim it. Serve it with celery cut round, blanched, and stewed. If you wish the soup to be brown instead of white, use espagnole, and no cream. Celery (Stewed).—Boil till tender the white part in milk and water, with three ounces of butter; drain it. Stir some cream over the fire, with two yolks of eggs, put in the celery, salt, pepper, mace, and grated lemon peel; shake all together, but do not let it boil. Another way.—Boil a dozen heads of celery in salt and water till nearly done ; then set them to stew between lards of fat bacon, with consommi enough to cover them; when very tender drain them on a sieve, and serve with good btchamelle sauce. Celery on Toast.—Cut some well-but- tered toast into pieces about three inches square, lay on them celery stewed accord- ing to the second receipt, and serve it to table. CHAMBORD.—This is a ragcut made of cocks’comb, cocks’ kidneys, fat livers, and fowls’ eggs. The combs must be scalded as follows : Put them into a towel with coarse salt, then holding each corner of the towel, dip the part containing the combs into boiling water, leave it in for a minute, and then take it out and rub the whole together, to take off the first skin that is about the combs, and open your towel; if the combs be not sufficiently skinned, dip them into boiling water a second time, but they must not get too firm, as that will prevent their whitening. When properly skinned, pare the little black points that the blood may be taken out. Put them into a pint of water and let them lay on a corner of the stove with very little fire, for two hours; then blanch and put them into a little Mane; take care not to do them two much ; the kidneys must not boil, as they would break; boil the egn-s a little to take off the first skin, throw the whole into blanc, and when the combs are done, have ready some espagnole, and a pint of Madeira (both reduced and then mixed together), with large mush- rooms turned, and some small quenelles, which have been poached separately. Mix all together, and drain the ragout, the combs, the kidneys, and the eggs. Pot the whole into the sauce with the quenelles; stir gently, not to break the latter ; season it well. Add to the above, a garnish of soft roes of carp, some good-sized crayfish, , and two spoonsful of essence of anchovies. . To poach the quenelles, two spoons must be used, fill one with the farce which lias been levelled all round with a knife dipped into boilingwater. With the other spoon, which is also lying in boiling water, take ■ the quenelles out, and put them into a but- tered stewpan, and boil them for a quarter • of an hour. A small quantity of salt is required in the water. CHANTILLY Bashet.—Dip some ra- tafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to caramel height; place them round the in- side of a dish ; then cut more ratafia cakes into squares, dip them also into sugar, and pile them cornerwise on the row, and so on for two or three stories high. Line the inside with wafer paper, and fill it with sponge biscuit, sweetmeats, blanched al- monds, or some made cream; put trifle over that, and garnish the froth with rose leaves, coloured comfits, or caramel sugar thrown lightly over the top. CHAR.—Cleanse them, cut oft' the fins; tails, and heads, and lay them in rows in a long baking-pan, first seasoning them with pepper, salt, and mace. When done, let them stand till cold, pot them', and pour clarified butter over. CHARDS «it Gras.9—Blanch and dress them the same as celery; boil them quickly in water, with salt and a little butter; drain and put them in a stewpan, with butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and blond. Vi hen nearly done, add a little veijuice or vinegar; thicken the sauce, and serve quite hot. Char os a la Venitienne. — Prepare the cliards the same as Chards an Gras, and finish in the same manner as for Cardoons and Cheese. CHARLOTTE of Apples. — Cut a suf- ficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, first rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apples into the dish in layers, till the dish is full, strew- ing sugar and bits of butter between. In the mean time, soak ns many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk; over which place a plate, and a weight, to keep the bread close upon the apples ; let it bake slowly for three hours. For a middling-sized dish, you should use half a pound of butter for the whole.