APP 20 APP Apples and Almonds Pelils Gateaux.* •—Proceed the same as above till the mar- malade is spread over the under crust, then cover it with almonds cut in fillets, press them in lightly; mask them with powder sugar and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as cold, cut your gdteaux accord- ing to your fancy, either round, oblong, lozenge, or crescent-shaped. Apples. Petits Gateaux bandies* — Having spread your marmalade on the paste in the usual manner, take some narrow slips of paste, roll them, and lay them about three eighths of an inch apart diagonally over the marmalade ; mark out the forms of your gateaux, bake in a mode- rate oven, and cut them as usual. Apple Marmalade. Petits Gateaux.*—■ Make a marmalade of twenty-four apples in the usual way, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pot of apricots, and the zest of a lemon, shred fine. Make your paste, and proceed as directed for Petits Gateaux glacis of Apri- cots. Sprinkle them (when marked) with powder sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven and finish them. Apple Petits Gateaux with Pistachios.*— Make an under crust of the same size and thickness as directed for Petits Gateaux glacis of Apricots, and cover it with apple marmalade ; when baked mash the apples with a little apricot marmalade, and strew over a quarter of a pound ol pistachio nuts cut in small pieces, and then put it in the oven again for a few minutes to dry the apricots. When cold, cut them into the usual forms. Apples and Pistachios (Gateau Pari- sienne of).*—Prepare and toss up a dozen apples for this gateau with apples and raisins, with the addition of two ounces of sugar, and instead of the zest of an orange, grate that of a lemon, and put three ounces of pistachio nuts blanched, in the place of the raisins. Proceed in the same manner as directed in that re- cipe, strewing on the dome of the gateau pistachio and sugar, each nut cut into six pieces ; and when the crown is put round the band place a pistachio nut in the middle of each meringue, bake it of a light colour in a slow oven, aud serve it hot. Apples and Raisins (Gateau Parisienne of).*—Pare and cut a dozen apples into quarters, and each quarter into four pieces, put them into a pan with four ounces of good fresh butter, two of sugar, over which the zest of an orange has been grated, and a quarter of a pound of currants well washed ; toss up these ingredients over a moderate fire for a few minutes and then let them cool. Make a round under crust seven inches in diameter, moisten the edge and put on it a band of puff paste three quarters of an inch high and half an inch thick ; put your apples, &c., in tliis, so as to form a sort of dome, cover them with the puff paste, taking care that it does not extend beyond the band, upon which it must be pressed down ; brush it over with white of egg, and bake it in a gentle oven for about an hour. When a little cooled, take the whites of two eggs, whipped to a strong froth and mixed with two ounces of powder sugar, and mask with it your gdteau, sprinkling it with sifted sugar; then, having drained and dried some cur- rants, mix them with sugar, and strew them over the dome ; form a crown of small meringues with the remainder of the white of egg, and place it on the band; cover them with sifted sugar, and colour the whole of a clear yellow in the oven, and then serve immediately. Apples, Glades.—Peel a dozen of ap- ples and leave the tails; gore at the op- posite side not quite through, and boil them with half a pint of red wine, some sugar, and a spoonful of brandy, simmer slowly that they may not break ; when nearly done, take them out, reduce the syrup to a caramel, and put in the apples, rubbing them all over with it; or you. may rap them in a paste, rasp sugar over, bake a short time, and glaze with a white glaze. Apple Jelly*—Peel any kind of sharp apples, cut them in slices, and wash them in several waters; then boil them in a covered pot with a good deal of water, until it is much reduced and becomes glu- tinous ; strain it through a thin cloth, measure it, and refine an equal quantity of clarified sugar to the twelfth degree (au cassi) and pour the apples into it, boil it up and skim it, boil again until it quits the spoon clear by dropping out of it. Apple (clear) Paste is done in the same way. . . Apple Marmalade.—Boil some pippins till they begin to get tender, then put them into cold water ; pare and core them; squeeze the pulp through a sieve and put it over the fire, letting it remain till it be- comes very thick; then weigh an equal quantity of fine sugar; boil it till the sugar arises iu sparkles which cluster