ORA 382 ORA it half a pint of syrup, and half a pint of water; pass it, and freeze it rich, and thick. Oranges (Green)—Scrape out the insides of the oranges quite clean, then let them lie for three days in cold water, changing the water daily, then boil them very slowly till the water is bitter; then put them into Other boiling water, set them by • repeating this daily till all the bitterness is extracted; make a rich syrup of the last water they are boiled in, with Lisbon sugar; when cold, put them in ; the next day boil them in the syrup; repeat this till they are green and tender; cover with brandy- paper. Orange (Seville) Water Ice. — Take off the rind of two Seville oranges, very fine and thin; squeeze the juice into a basin with one lemon ; add half a pint of syrup, and half a pint of water; pass them through a sieve, and. freeze them rich. Orange Chips.— Cut your oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve, let the peel soak in water, the following day boil it in the same till it is tender; drain them, and slice the peels; put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into a broad earthen dish, and put it over the fire at a moderate distance, stirring frequently till the chips candy; then put them into a cool room to dry. They will not be dry under three weeks. Orange Chips Broiled.—Take the rinds of oranges, cut them into small pieces, and having scalded them a short time, throw them into some sugar boiled to grande plume; stir them well, and when they are of a nice colour, drop them on a baldng-plate (pre- viously oiled) like macaroons ; strew a lit- tle powder-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. The proportion of sugar is a pound and a half to one pound of the peel. Orange Flower Balls.*—Whip up tho whites of two eggs, with three pounds of powder-sugar, adding by degrees an ounce of orange-flower water, and a pinch of car- mine in powder; when these ingredients form a tolerably firm paste, pour it on a sheet of paper; cut it in pieces, which make into little balls, by rolling them in our hands; place them on paper about alf an inch apart; put them into the oven till they swell a little, then take them out, and keep them dry. Orange Flower Biscuits.—Take the yolks of six eggs, beat them up with three spoons- ful of orange-flower marmalade, and some green lemon-peel grated; then add the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth, I and a quarter of a pound of sifted flour; mix these together well, put the prepara- j| tion into paper-cases, bake them like other I biscuits, and glaze them when done. Orange Flower Biscuits a La Duchesse.— | These are made in the same manner as I orange-flower biscuits; the only difference 1 consists in the ingredients; rice-flour sifted ! I being substituted for wheat-flour, and dried ifl orange-flowers pulverized instead of the | marmalade, and a pound of powder-sugar added. Orange Flower Biscuits Souffles.*—Take 1 the white of an egg, with which mix some 1 sifted sugar ; when of a proper consist- I ence, add two pinches of dried orange- I flowers, mix them well, and half fill some I very small paper-cases ; put them into a moderate oven, and when on touching them ■ lightly, you find them firm, they are suf- I ficiently baked. Orange Flowers (Candied).—Boil some I clarified sugar, to souffle, and then throw | in some picked orange flowers, remove it I from the fire, replace it in a quarter of an I hour, and let it rise to soujjle again ; take I it off a second time, and when about half | cold pour it into moulds, which place in a moderately heated stove; keep it at the I same temperature whilst the candy is I drying; when done, the top should sparkle like diamonds ; set the moulds on | one side to drain for some time, before you turn out the candy, which must be kept in a dry place. Orange Flowers Clarequet.— Having pared some golden pippins perfectly, slice the apples very thin, wash them in several waters, and then boil them slowly with a little water in a covered saucepan, until the apples are entirely reduced ; strain it through a damp cloth, and mix with it over the fire, a spoonful of orange flower marmalade, give them one boil together, then strain it again through a damp cloth, boil au equal quantity of sugar to casse, put the liquid, a little at a time, to this, let it stand a moment; then take it off, skim, and replace it on the fire, and when the whole has boiled up two or three times, pour it into glasses. Orange Flowers(Comp&teof).*—Choose your flowers very white ami well picked, throw them into boiling water, and blanch them till you can crush them with your fingers; then take them out, and put them in cold water with some lemon juice, change the water several times, having lemon juice in each; then drain, and put