BEE BEE 58 kin witli thin slices of bacon, wrapping it up close so that no fat may enter. Put a plate in the bottom of the pot to keep the napkin anil meat from being- burnt to the bottom, and boil it in the evening against the next day. To season it you may put in about two pounds of leaf fat of a hog’s belly, or beef suet, putting in some white wine, verjuice, salt, long pepper, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, slices of lemon, onion, parsley, bay leaves, sweet basil, and whole coriander, anise and fennel; when all these are put into the pot, let it be covered very close, and let the beef be stewed very gently ; when it is sufficiently done, let it cool in its own fat; then make a godiveau, put it into the dish in which the piece of beef is to be dressed, then cover it with the same godiveau, then put it into an oven and let it bake for an hour. Before you serve it to table, prepare a well-sea- soned beef cullis, and make a round hole in the top of the godiveau, and pour in your cullis so that it may penetrate into every part, and then above this squeeze the juice of a lemon. This beef may be served up cold, in thin slices, instead of beef d la Roy ale. Beef d la Royale.—Bone a rump, sir- loin, or brisket, and cut some holes in it at a little distance from each other: fill the holes, one with chopped oysters, ano- ther with fat bacon, and the other with chopped parsley; dip each of these, before the beef is stuffed, into a seasoning made with salt, pepper, beaten mace, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, sweet marjoram, and thyme; put a piece of butter into a frying- pan, and when it has done hissing, put in the beef, make it of a fine brown, then put into it some broth made of the bones, with a bay leaf, a pint of red wine, two ancho- vies, and a quarter of a pint of small beer; cover it close and let it stew till it is ten- der ; then take out the beef, skim ofl the fat, strain the gravy; add two ox palates stewed tender and cut iuto pieces, some pickled gherkins, truffles, morels, and a little mushroom powder ; let all these boil together; thicken the sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flower, put in the beet to warm, pour the sauce over it, and servo it up. Beef (Rump of).—Tho rump is es- teemed, in most parts, the best piece in the whole ox; it makes excellent soups, and graces the table as a middle dish. It is excellent boiled and served up plain ; or, when cleansed of its fat, it may be served with a sauce made of cullis, parsley, green onions, anchovies, capers, and a little gar- lic, the whole shred fine and well sea- soned. It may also be served boiled and garnished. Beef (liurap of) baked*—Take a rump of beef, what size you please, bone and lard it, season it with salt and fine spices, put it into a stewpan just large enough ta hold it, together with half a pint of white wine, some green onions, mushrooms, and shalots; some lean bacon is an improve- ment. Close the edges of the pan with a strong paste; let it stew in an oven for five or six hours according to the size of your meat, then serve it with its own. sauce strained. You may dress a sirloin in the same way. Beef (Rump of) boiled French fashion. —Parboil your rump of beef for half an hour, take it up, and put it into a deep dish; cut gashes in the side of your meat, that the gravy may come out, put salt and pepper into every gash, then fill up the dish with claret, and put in two or three blades of mace, set it over a chafing-dish of coals, and cover in close and let it stew for an hour and a half, turning the meat several times whilst it is stewing; then take off the fat, put in a handful of capers, five or six sliced onions, half-a-dozen verjuice. Boil all together till the meet is tender, and serve it up to table with brown bread and sippets fried in butter. Beef (Bump of) a la Braise, with Dutch Onions.*—Take a fine rump of beef, bone it, and tie it with a packthread, and put it in a braise with a pint of white wine, some good stock, a slice of veal, a rasher of bacon, a large bunch of herbs, pepper and salt; when it is half done, add about thirty Butch or large red onions. II hen die beef is done, take it out and clear off the fat; put it in a dish with the onions round ; pour over it a good brown sauce. A rump of beef dressed in diis way may be varied with different sauces or ragouts, according to your taste. Beef (Rump oj) a la Cardinale *—> Choose a rump of beef of ten or twelve pounds, and having takeu out die bone, lard it with a pound of bacon, cut it in bits, and season it with salt and spices. 'The upper part of the beef, which is covered with fat, should not be larded. Next, take four ounces of powdered saltpetre and rub into the meat, diat it may look red ; put it in a pan with one ounce ot bruised juniper berries, three bay leaves, a litde thyme and basil, and one pound of coarse salt; let it remain eight days, the pan