GOO GRA 284 pudding is made in the same manner as apple pudding. Gooseberry Sauce*—Take twohaudsful of half ripe gooseberries, open them, and take out the seeds ; blanch them in a little salt and water, and drain them. Put two spoonsful of veloute, and the same of butter sauce into a saucepan, mix them together well, and heat them ; throw in the gooseberries, stir them well; season the sauce according to taste, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. This sauce is eaten with boiled mackarel: fennel may be added or not, at pleasure. Gooseberry Syrup.—Bruise them, with one fourth part of cherries ; sift in a cloth, and mix the juice with sugar prepared to the ninth degree [u la grande plume'), one pound to half a pint of juice ; simmer to- gether till the sugar is au perl6. Gooseberry [Green) Tart.—You may use them either whole, or make a marma- lade of them, with a good syrup ; the last way is considered the best method, as by this means you can judge easily how sweet they are, and ought to he; if made of marmalade, the seeds should be taken out. Gooseberries in an Open Tart, with or without Cream..—Pick and scald some young gooseberries, then, with short paste, make a tart of them the same as you would any other, and serve it cold ; or it may be done thus : when the tart is cold, take off the top crust, and cut it in three corner shapes; beat up nearly a pint of thick cream, and when beaten up, mix it in a little powder sugar ; then spread it nicely over the gooseberries, and garnish it round with crust. Gooseberry Trifle.—Scald a sufficient quantity of gooseberries, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom ol a dish, and sweeten it with sugar according to taste. Mix half a pint of milk, half "a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg ; give it a scald over the lire, stirring all the time; do not let it boil; add a little sugar, and leave it to get cold; lay it over the gooseberries with a spoon, and then put on it a whip, which should be made the day before, as for auy Other trifle. Gooseberry Vinegar. — Bruise some gooseberries that are quite ripe, and to three quarts ol water put one quart ot gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring them fre- quently; then strain them through a hair bag, and to every gallon of liquor add one pound of coarse sugar ; stir it well to- gether ; put it into a barrel and a toast and yeast; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, and let it stand nine or ten months. 'The greater quantity of sugar and fruit, the stronger the vinegar. GRAPES (Compute of).*—Boil a quar- ter of a pound of sugar with half a glass of water, till it is reduced to a strong syrup ; skim, and then put into it a pound, of grapes, picked from the stalks, and the seeds taken out; give them a boil two or three times, and then place them in a dessert dish : if there is any scum upon them, carefully wipe it off' with white paper. Grapes Dried.*—Take some fine mus- cadine grapes; place them on hurdles, and put them into the oven, turning them, carefully, frequently; when the grapes are quite dry, put them into a deal box, hermetically closed, lightly covering them with brown sugar and bay leaves. Grapes, Dried in Bunches.— lake some preserved grapes, wash them with warm water, put them on sieves, and into a hot stove, keep turning them every day, changing the sieve; when they are thoroughly dried, put them into boxes. Grape Ice. — Take ripe grapes, pick them from their stalks, pass them through a sieve ; mix some sugar with the juice of four lemons squeezed upon it; pass the whole together a second time through a sieve, then freeze it. Grape Jelly*—Take out the stones, , then mash the grapes with your hands (they must be ripe), then squeeze them through a cloth to extract all the juice from them, and boil and finish the same as cur- rant jelly. Use half a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Grapes [Pickled).—The grapes must be at their full growth, but not ripe, cut them in small bunches ; put them in a stone jar, with vine leaves between each layer of grapes, till the jar is full; then take as much spring water as will cover the grapes and the leaves ; as it heats put in as much salt as will make a brine suf- ficiently strong to bear an egg ; you must use half bay salt and halt common salt; when it boils, skim it; strain it through a flannel hag, and let it stand to settle , by the time it is cold it will be quite settled ; strain it a second time through a flannel bag ; then pour it into the jar, upon the grapes, which must be well covered , the jar with vine leaves ; then tie it over with a double cloth, and set a plate upon it; let it stand for two days, then take o .