518 VEG YEN bacon, make a little hole at the top, and pour in some good cullis. Vegetable Fie.— Cut celery heads two inches long, turnips and carrots into shapes, some peeled small onions, or two Spanish onions, artichoke bottoms cut into quarters, pieces of cauliflower, or heads of brocoli, .beads of fine asparagus, and any other vegetable you may think proper. Wash all these vegetables thoroughly clean; then boil each separately in just sufficient water to cover them, and as they get tender, strain the liquor into one stewpan, and put the vegetables into another. Then add to their essence half a pint of consomme ; thicken it with flour, and season it with Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice ; boil it for ten minutes, and then strain it to the ve- getables, and let them simmer together. Serve them in a raised pie crust, or in a pie-dish, with a raised crust baked round it. Vegetables to preserve jor the Winter. —French beans must be picked when young, and a layer of them put three inches deep into a small wooden keg; •sprinkle them over with salt, and then put another layer of beans, and strew salt over, and so on as high as you please; be care- ful not to put too much salt. Cover them with a plate, or a piece of wood that will go into tire keg, and place a heavy stone over it; a pickle will exude from the salt • and beans When wanted for use, cut, soak, and bcil them the same as though they were fresh. Keep carrots, parsnips, and beet roots, in lavers of dry sand, and do not clean either them or potatoes, from the earth that remains about them. Store onions should be kept hung up in dry cold room. Cut parsley quite close to the stalks, and dry it in a warm room, or dry it in u cool oven upon tins. Let artichoke bottoms be dried slowly, and kept in paper bags; keep truffles, morels, lemon peel, &c., in a very dry place. You may keep small close cabbages many weeks, by laying them, before tho frost sets in, on a stone floor, which will blanch, and make them very fine. Vegetables (liagout oj ).*—l’ut a slice of fresh butter into a saucepan, with some sorrel, lettuce, chervil, parsley, and green onions ; let the whole be well washed, squeezed, and chopped fine; leave tho saucepan over tho fire till the liquor of the vegetables is entirely consumed; then shake in a little flour,' moisten with some gravy and cullis, and add salt and coarse pepper. Let it boil till the herbs are well done, and the sauce wholly consumed; then add the yolks of three egg6 mixed up with cream, and thicken the ragout over the fire, without letting it boil. Vegetable Soup.—Feel and cut into slices six large onions, six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling stock ; tben add to these a crust of bread toasted as brown and as hard as pos- sible (but be careful that it is not burnt), some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt, and let the whole stew gently for four hours, tben strain it through a coarse cloth, have ready -sliced carrot, celery, and a little nutmeg, add them to the soup, and let them stew in it until quite tender. Some like the addition of an anchovy, and a little ketchup. VELOLTE*—Take the cuttings and remains of nnv joints of veal and fowl you may have in the house, of which take four pounds, and put into a large stewpan, with some carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, three bay leaves, three cloves, and a ladle- ful of stock ; put your stewpan on a fierce fire, skim it well, and take care that the meat does not stick; when -sufficiently re- duced, add as much stock as will nearly fill the stewpan, salt it well; give it a boil, skim it, aud then put it on the side of the fire to simmer for two hours, aiter which strain it through a tammy. Make a white roux, stir into it for ten minutes a few champignons, then pour on it, a little at a time, the above liquor ; let it boil up once, skim it, and set it again by the side of the fire for an hour and a half; takeoff all the fat, strain it again, and then put it by for use. Take care that the velimte is not in the least coloured, as the whiter it is the better. T he velnute travailUe is done in the same manner ns the tspagnole. •VENISON.—The choice of venison should be regulated by the appearance of the fat, which, when the venison is young, looks thick, clear, and close; as it begins to change first towards the haunches, run a knife into that part; if tainted, you will perceive a rank smell, and it will have a green or blackish appearance. If you wish to preserve it. you may, by careful management and watching, keep it for a long time bv the followingmethod : Wash it well with milk and water very clean, and dry it perfectly with cloths un- til there is not the least damp remaining,