CAU 131 CAU of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and one ounce of syrup of lemons Caudle (Rice).—Mix some grated rice jvith a little cold water, and then pour it into boiling water. When of a proper consistence add sugar, lemon peel, and cinnamon ; to a quart of this put a glass of brandy. Boil all smooth. Caudle ( Whits')*—Mix two spoonsful of oatmeal in a quart of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a piece of lemon peel; stir it often, and let it boil full twenty mi- nutes ; strain and sweeten it, add a little white wine, nutmeg, and a little lemon juice. CAULIFLOWERS (to dress). — Cut off the stalks, but leave a little green on ; boil them in spring water and salt; they are soon done, but they must not boil too fast. They may also be dressed in milk and water without salt. Second may.—Blanch the cauliflowers a short time with a slice of streaky bacon, butter and salt; when about half done, put them in a stewpan, with a little blond, or veal gravy; reduce the sauce, and serve very hot. • Cauliplowehs and Butter.*— Prepare two cauliflowers, and when they are drain- ed, cut them in pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with a bit of butter, some salt, and lemon juice; let them boil a little at first, then simmer; take care they are not done too much. Take them out, cover them with a sauce made with butter, worked with flour, the yolks of eggs, and a little cream. Cauliflowers and Cheese*—Make a sauce with cullis, a bit of butter, and pep- • per, but no salt. Put in a dish some grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, place the cauliflowers (previously washed, pick- ed and boiled) on this ; pour the sauce over, and cover them with slices of Par- mesan cheese, warmed, to make them ad- here to the cauliflower. Colour it with a salamander. Cauliflowers (Fried).—Pick, wash, and throw them into boiling water, with a “ttle salt, and when three parts done, take wem out, drain and put them into an earthen pan, with salt, pepper, and vine- ear; beat them up in this, and then fry ‘hem in a batter made as follows : Three spoonsful of flour, two eggs, a little salt, some oil, and a tea-spoonful of brandy. Ut-LtFLowKns (Fried).*— When your ; un(lowers are about three parts done, j e a thick white sauce, in which toss ‘ 1 up, and then let them cool; just be- fore wanted, dip them in batter, and fry* them in a hot pan; when of a nice colour, serve them. They may also, when boiled and drained, be soaked in vinegar, salt, and pepper, in which they should be toss- ed up, instead of the white sauce, and then fried. Cauliflowers a la Ge noise*—After the cauliflowers are boiled, and are cold, sprin- kle them with Gruyere and Parmesan, cheese grated ; put them in a dish, but- tered and strewed with cheese. Cover the cauliflowers with a thick white sauce, mixed with grated cheese. Strew bread crumbs on this, then pour butter over, then more bread crumbs. Put the dish on hot ashes, and brown the tops. Cauliflowers and Gravy.*—Blanch and drain the cauliflowers, heat them up in a little veal gravy or blond; when done, place it on a dish, and add any other gravy you may think proper. Be careful not to break the cauliflower. Cauliflower Loaf.* — Trim and par- boil a fine cauliflower, then put it into cold water, and drain it. Line the bottom of a stewpan (of the size of the dish you intend to use), with slices of bacon, and place the cauliflower on them, with the head downwards. Make a stuffing with a fillet of veal, beef suet, parsley, scallions, mushrooms, all chopped small, salt, pep- per, and three eggs; when these are well mixed together, put it into the open spaces of the cauliflower, pressing it in with the hand; season it well, and stew it with some stock. When the sauce is consumed, turn tlie cauliflower out carefully on the dish, take away the bacon, and pour over it some cullis, with a little butter, and serve. r Cauliflowers d la l\Iagnonnaise.*—-■ The cauliflowers, thoroughly washed and cleared of their leaves, must be put into boiling water, butter and salt; when firm, take the saucepan from the fire, and let the cauliflower cool in the water. As soon as they are cold, drain and put them into oil, vinegar, salt, and a mignonette, to soak for two hours. Dish them in the form of a pyramid, as high as you can; mask them with a white magnonnaise, and place round them a border of aspic jelly, cut in triangles. Cauliflowers (Pickled).--Pull the largest and closest cauliflowers into sprigs; put them into an earthen dish, and sprinkle salt over them. Let them stand twenty* lour hours; then put. them into a jar, and pour salt and boiling water over them, k 2