CED 133 C ED I little while, put in your cedrat, stirring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice forms on : the top ; you may then pour your conserve into moulds. Be careful not to put it in : too hot. Cedrat Cream an Bain Marie.*—Rasp i the rind of a cedrat on a piece of sugar weighing ten ounces, scrape oft’ the surface, and rasp again as usual; infuse this sugar in boiling milk ; cover and let it stand till nearly cold, then mix it gradually with ten yolks, one whole egg, and a grain of salt. Strain, and finish as usual. See Cream ait Bain Marie. Cedrats (Distilled Cream of).*—Infuse the rinds of four very fine cedrats in three I quarts of the best brandy, and a pint of water; close the vessel tight, and let it stand several days. At the end of that time distil it in the bain-marie. If the brandy is of the proper strength, the three quarts will yield two of the liquor ; to which put threepoundsand a half of sugar, dissolved in three pints and a half of water; pass the whole through a straining-bag, or filter it through paper. Oil of cedrats is made in the same manner, with the addition of a pound and a half more sugar, and half a pint of water. Cedrat Cream a la Franpoise.*—Rasp the rinds of two cedrats on ten ounces of sugar; which mix with the yolks of eight eggs, a grain of salt; add gradually five glasses of nearly boiling milk, stirring it constantly. The remainder of the opera- tion is the same as in making Cacao Cream u. la Frunpoise. Cedrat Cream Pdiissiere.*—Rasp the rind of a cedrat in the usual way, on a quarter of a pound of sugar; crush with the latter an equal weight of sweet and six bitter macaroons ; add this mixture to the cream, prepared as directed. See Cream Pulissiere. Cedrats, dried, Whole or in Quarters.— Take some preserved cedrats either whole ' or in quarters, wash them in a little warm water ; boil some syrup in another pan, till I it comes to blow ; take a large spoon, and ! rub it well to the sides of the pan till it j comes white; dip your cedrats in, take ■ them out and put them on wires over another ; pan; let them drain well, then put them mto a hot stove on the wires for one day, till the candy dries all round them ; when well dried, put them into boxes, and lay a paper between every layer of cedrats. Cedrat Zeste ( Fromage Bavarois of).*— Take half a pound of lump sugar, rasp on it the zest of cedrat, and as the surface of the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it off, and rasp again; dissolve the sugar in two glasses of nearly boilingmilk ; cover it, and when nearly cold, mix with it six drachms of clarified isinglass, then strain, and place it in a hoi, in ice; and when it begins to take, add to it the cream, and finish as Fro- mage Bavarois. Cedrat (Preserved) Gcnoises.*—Add to the usual ingredients (see Genoise), the peel of a cedrat, grated on the sugar used ; when glazed, strew over them a quarter of a pound of preserved cedrat, cut small; dry them a minute or two in the oven. Cedrat Ices.—Take a piece of loaf sugar, and have a fresh and sound cedrat, which you must grate over a piece of paper, on the piece of loaf sugar, scraping with a knife what sticks upon the sugar of the skin of the cedrat ; when you have thus taken off the outer rind of the cedrat, by rasping or grating it on the sugar, take a little clarified sugar, boiled very fine, which add to the raspings or gratings of the cedrat, with what quantity of juice of lemon you think requisite for the quantity of ices you intend making, and a little water; pass the whole through a sieve, then ice it, and finish the same as all other ices. Cedrat Ice Cream.—Take two large spoonsful of essence of cedrat, put it into a basin, squeeze in three lemons, and add one pint of cream ; be careful that all the essence is melted ; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Cedrat Water Ice.—Take four ounces of essence of cedrat, put it into a basin, and add to it the juice of three lemons, two gills or syrup, and half a pint of water; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it rich, and if you would have it in the shape of a cedrat, after you have filled your mould, close it well, and cover it with half a sheet of brown paper before you put it in the ice. Cedrats Zestes (Jelly of).9—Take three quarters of a pound of lump sugar, grate on it the zests of two cedrats, and, as the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it off with a knife, and grate again, and so on till all the zest is gone; dissolve the scraped sugar in two glasses of water, and, with the juice of four lemons, pass it through a jelly- bag. Clarify the remainder of the sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a small pre- serving-pan ; boil it to caramel height, to colour the jelly; mix this, tho fruit, the syrup, and an ounce of isinglass together, and finish in the usual way.