FIS 252 FIS gently in strong salt and water till done, then lay them on a drainer. When the savory jelly in the mould is quite cold, put the smelts upon it, with the best side downwards; then put a little more jelly, just lukewarm, over the fish, and when that is cold, fill the mould with more of the same kind. When it is to be served to table, dip the mould in warm water, put the dish upon the jelly, and turn it over. Pieces of lobsters, fillets of soles, &c., may be done in the same manner. Fish (Consomme of)*—-Take carp, tench, perch, eels, pike, and other fresh- water fish of the same kind ; clean them well, and cut them into pieces, as near of a size as may be ; lay them in a stew-- pan, on a layer of sliced onions and car- rots ; as soon as they begin to sweat, put in a bit of butter, and leave them for a quarter of an hour; moisten them with fish broth, and let them boil gently for an hour; keep the pan closely covered ; this will afford a very nourishing broth. Fish (Entree of) in a Mould.—Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter; strew grated Parmesan cheese over the bottom, about an inch thick, and put a layer of boiled macaroni, of the same thickness, and upon that, fish of whatever sort you please, boned, cut into pieces, and strewed with herbs, such as parsley, thyme, and slialots, chopped very fine, and a little pounded spices and Cayenne pepper, then a layer of macaroni and Parmesan cheese. Put it into a moderate oven; let it bake one hour, then care- fully turn it out of the mould into a dish, and serve it to table, with a little good cullis round it. Fisii Fritters.—Make a light force- meat witli fish of any kind. Then put a small quantity into pieces of puff paste, the size of a common puff ; then lry them in boiling lard; drain them dry. Serve them to table with truffles, or bechamelle sauce round them. Fish (Glaze oj).*—Take some fish broth, to which add an eel, cut in pieces, and the beads, tails, fins, and large bones, of either sen or river fish ; wash them per- fectly clean, and chop them into small pieces. When they have been boiling in the broth for about an hour, strain off the liquor, and reduce it to a jelly, which is used to glaze all sorts of maigre dishes. Fish Gravy.—Cut two or three little fish of any kind into small pieces; put them into a saucepan, with rather more i water than will cover them, a bit of toasted bread, a blade of mace, some I lemon peel, whole pepper, and a bunch i, of sweet herbs; let it simmer gently till , it is rich and good ; brown a little bit of butter in a stewpan, and when it is browned, strain the gravy into it, and let ; it boil for a few minutes. Fisii Gravy.—Skin two or three eels, | or some flounders; gut and wash them I thoroughly; cut them into small pieces, | and put them into a saucepan ; cover them j with water, and add a little crust of bread, | toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon peel, an anchovy or two, and a ltttle horseradish, about a tea-spoonful; cover close, and let it simmer; add a bit of butter and some flour, and boil with the above. Fisii Gravy*—Put some slices of onion into a stewpan, and set them on the fire; when they are completely dissolved, add a piece of butter and some small fish, or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other you may find convenient. As soon as they begin to dissolve, and give out their moisture, put a glassful of root broth to them, and boil them for half an hour; then add a glass of white wine, and a little lemon juice, and boil it another half hour, when it may be pressed through a sieve, with great force. Fish Catsup.*—Take rather more than a pint of vinegar, three pints of red port, two table-spoonsful of pepper, pounded very fine, plenty of sbalots and horse- radish, the peel of half a lemon, and two or three bay leaves, and a pound ot an- chovies ; let the whole boil together until the anchovies are dissolved, then strum, and when cold, put it into bottles. Two or three spoonsful are sufficient for a pound of butter. Fish Fatties.—Take a carp, a tench, and an eel, boil them a little; half stew six oysters ; pick the flesh from the bones of the fish, and beat it together in a mortar, with the melts of the fish, some mace, and some white wine; mix them well together; make some rich puff paste, line the tins with it, then put in the forcemeat, with one oyster, and a bit ot butter; put on the top, and bake them. Fish (Pate Chaud e/).*— Cut a piece ot salmon into scallops, heat six ounces o fresh butter, and put into it two spoonsful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four ot truffles, and a shalot blanched, all shred