314 LAM LAM lay it on a table in little heaps ; when all the meat is thus disposed, form them into whatever shape you please (either round, oval, pear-shaped, &c.); roll them in bread crumbs; beat up three yolks and two whole eggs, with a little salt and pep- per ; dip the croquettes in this, and bread them a second time ; take care that they are well covered; fiy them in a hot pan : when done, chain and place them in a pyramid on your dish, with fried parsley over them. Make a sauce as follows : cut some mushrooms into dice, and put them into a saucepan, with an ounce of butter; give them a few turns over the fire, and then add a few scallions shred small; when they have had a turn or two, put in a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, and a bay-leaf; reduce the sauce, and then take out the bay leaf, and put in the yolks of four eggs, and another ounce of butter; stir the whole till of the proper consistence, serve with the croquettes. A little shred parsley may be added if you like. Lamb Cutlets—For various ways, be- sides the following. (See Mutton Cutlets) as they may be dressed alike. Lamb Cutlets aux Epinards.—Saute and glaze them, and serve them upon spinach a, la Creme. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic.*—Take sixteen lamb cutlets, and lard them with moderate sized lardons of calf’s udder, truffles, and tongue a Vicariate ; line a saucepan with slices of bacon, lay your cutlets on them, cover them with bacon, moisten with shimmings of consomme, add a carrot, two onions stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; braise them, and when done, put them between two dishes, and let them cool: then trim them so that the whole of the lardons may be seen; have ready an aspic mould, in which is some of the jelly, set; lay the cutlets and a piece of tongue a Vicariate alternately on it, en couronne, put two or three spoonsful of jelly on it carefully, not to displace the cutlets ; when you find the jelly is set, fill the mould; set it on ice; turn the aspic out only the minute before it goes to table, pour into the well or hollow part a cold blanquette of lamb, with some cold truffles sliced. Lamb Cutlets en Chemises.*—Having cut and trimmed your cutlets, cover them with & farce composed of fat livers, breasts of a fowl or game, streaked bacon, all chopped very small, and mixed with the crumb of bread soaked in cream; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Take some thin slices of bacon; spread the farce on them, lay a cutlet on each slice, roll it up, and tie it; bread these carefully, and roast them before a moderate fire, basting them with their own fat. Lamb’s Cutlets a la Constance *—Cut and . trim eighteen cutlets, season them with pepper only, put them into a pan, with a piece of glaze about the size of an egg, a ladleful of espagnole, two ladiesful of con- • sommi; half an hour before they are sent : to table, set the cutlets over a brisk fire, . move them aboutto prevent their sticking; . when the liquor is reduced to a jelly, take out the cutlets, and lay them on a dish en i couronne, taking care they are covered with i a jelly. Make a ragout of livers, cocks’- ■ combs, and kidneys, put them into some bichamelle, with some mushrooms ; fry the whole lightly, and pour them into the centre of the gouronne of cutlets, and serve instantly. Lamb Cutlets Fricasseed.—Take a leg of lamb, and cut it into thin cutlets, across • the grain, and put them into a stewpan. . Make a sufficient quantity of good stock : with the bones, shank, &c. to cover the i cutlets; put it into the stewpan, and cover it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some clove and mace tied in a muslin bag, and let them stew gently for ten minutes. Take out the cutlets, skim off the fat, and take out the sweet herbs and mace. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, sea- son it with salt, and a little cayenne pepper; add a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels; some forcemeat balls, the yolks ol three eggs, beat up in a half-pint of cream, and some grated nutmeg; keep stirring the same way till it is thick and smooth, and then put in the cutlets. Give them a toss up, take them out with a fork, and lay them on a dish. Pour the sauce over them; garnish with beet-root and lemon. Lamb’s Fan's Stuffed*—Take a dozen lamb’s ears, soak, and scald them ; when cold, dry, singe, and cook them in a blanc for an hour and a half, drain and fill them with a farce cuite, put the ears into melted butter," then roll them in bread-crumbs; break four eggs into the butter, with salt and pepper, beat all up together, dip the ears into this, then roll them again in bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour ; take care your pan is not too hot. Dram the ears well, and serve them on fried parsley. Lamb’s Ears with Sorrel.—lake about a dozen of lamb’s ears (this quantity will make a small dish), and braise them tiU tender. Take a large haudfu ot sorrel,