APR APR 29 next day drain the syrup, and boil it smooth, then add the apricots and boil to- gether; the following day make a jelly with codlings, boiling some apricots among them, to give a better flavour. When the jelly is done, put in the other fruit with the syrup, and boil altogether; skim it well and put it in glasses. Aphicot Jelly.* — Take eighteen fine apricots, let them be of a nice red colour, stone them, and cut them in pieces into some syrup (usually made with twelve ounces of sugar, but for apricot jelly it should be rather more liquid than for other jellies). When the fruit is done, put it into a napkin, to express out all the juice you possibly can; which you must add to the syrup in which the apricots have been done, and which has been pre- viously strained through a silk sieve, and after having mixed with it a proper quan- tity of isinglass to thicken it, finish the same as all other jellies. Apricots (Petits Livrets of')* — Are made the same as apricot puffs, the only difference is, that they are cut of an ob- long; form with a knife, instead of being semicircular; they are usually about two inches and a half long, by two and a quar- ter wide. Apricot Marmalade.*—Peel the apri- cots, and take out the stones; to each pound of fruit put three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, boil it to the de- g-ree gros boulet, then put in the apricots, boil both together: when it flows readily it maybe put into pots. Apricot Marmalade.*—Take some fine apricots, and choose from amongst them those which are of the deepest yellow and the ripest (they must not be too ripe). Peel them, take out the stones, and chop them up ; weigh twelve pounds of them and put them into a preserving-pan, with nine pounds of powder sugar; place your pan over a quick fire, and keep your pre- paration constantly stirring with a long wooden spoon. To find out when the marmalade is sufficiently done, let a few drops fall into a glass of cold water, and if t iey do not spread in the water your mar- malade is ready to put into pots. Add the kernels when blanched. Another method of ascertaining when your marmalade is done is by taking some on the end of your finger and thumb, and just rub them together, and if on separat- ing them you find the marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficiently done. Apricot Paste.*—Take the stones from as many apricots as you may require, and reduce them to a marmalade over the fire ; then rub them through a sieve, dry and weigh the marmalade, and boil an equal quantity of clarified sugar to petit boule, then add the fruit, and mix it well in; put them on the fire and boil them together till sufficiently done ; then pour the paste into moulds, and dry it in a stove. Apricot Paste.-—Peel and stone two pounds of ripe apricots, soak them pretty dry on the fire, and mash them very fine ; add a pound of sugar prepared d la grande plume; stir them well together on the fire till the paste quits the spoon; finish it in moulds and dry it quick. Apricot Pickle. — Apricots must be gathered just before they are ripe. Cover them with spring water well salted, and an equal quantity of bay and common salt; lay a thin board over to keep the fruit under water. When they have lain three days in water, take them out, wipe care- fully, and put them in a jar. Take as much white wine vinegar as will fill the jar, and to every gallon put a pint of the best well-made mustard, two or three heads of garlic, plenty of sliced ginger, and half an ounce of cloves, mace and nut- megs. Mix the pickle well together, and pour it over the apricots; tie it up close, and it will be fit to eat in two months. Apricot Pie*—Line a dish with puff paste, and then put in eighteen fine apri- cots (cut in halves and the stones taken out), with four ounces of sugar in powder, and four ounces of butter lukewarm. Then lay on the upper crust, glaze with the white of egg, and strew sifted sugar all over. Let it bake in a moderate oven to a nice light colour. Serve it hot. When you wish to serve it cold, you must leave out the butter. Apricots a la Portugaise* — Take a dozen of ripe apricots, cut them in half, and take out the stones ; place them on a silver plate, and pour over some clarified sugar, with a little water; put them on a stove without covering them; when suffi- ciently done, take them from the fire, and strew sugar over; then put on the lid of the baking-pan, and place them under the fire, to make them of a good colour. Apricots, to preserve.—Pare your apri- cots, and stone what you can whole, then give them a light boiling in water propor- tioned to the quantity of fruit, only just enough; then take the weight of the apri-