APP APP 25 care must be taken to prevent its being muddy. Apple Tart.—Pare, core, and cut the best sort of baking apples in small pieces, and lay them in a disk previously lined with a puff crust; strew over them pound- ed sugar, cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, cloves, and lemon peel chopped small, then a layer of apples, then spice, and so on till the dish is full, pour over the whole a glass and a half of white wine. Cover it with puff-crust, and bake it. Apple Tartlets.*—Turn a dozen small, sound rennets, core and cut them across ; put them into a preserving-pan with a glass of water, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the juice of a lemon; when sufficiently done, put the apples on a sieve to drain. Prepare your tartlets accord- ing to the directions for Apricot Tartlets; put in each, a little apricot marmalade, and on that the half of an apple previously filled with apricot marmalade, and bake them in a hot oven. In the mean time reduce the syrup to a thin jelly, and pour it on the apple tartlets wdien baked, and finish them by placing a cherry, or, if they are not in season, a preserved ver- juice-berry on the top. _ Apples a la Turque.—Neatly pare and pierce out the cores of eight or ten apples, put them on the fire with a thin syrup of clarified sugar, cover them close and let them simmer gently; turn them, that both sides may be done. When thoroughly done, lay them on a dish with a wet paper- over them. Put a paste round the dish 3r°u serve them in, then put in a layer of apple puree, over which put the apples, and fill the holes where the cores were with dried cherries or apricot jam, then cover it with the apple puree; beat up the whites of six eggs to a froth, and add powder sugar till they appear quite smooth; make the apples warm, and lay the white of egg over them, smooth it neatly over, and sift some powder sugar over it; colour it in a gentle oven. ° Apple Wine.—Add to a barrel of cider the herb scurlea, the quintessence of wine, a little nitre, and a pound of syrup of ho- ney. Let it work m the cask till clear and well settled, then draw it off, and it will be little inferior to Rhenish, either in clearness, colour, or flavour. Apples, Codlings, to pickle.—Gather the codlings when of the size of a large double walnut; take a pan and make a thick layer of vine leaves at the bottom. Put in the codlings, cover them well with vine leaves and spring water, and put them over a slow fire till they are sufficiently tender to pare the skins with ease with a small sharp knife. Put them into the same water, with vine leaves as before; cover them close and set the pan at a short distance from the fire, until they are of a fine green ; then drain them in a cullender till they are cold. Put them into jars with some mace, and a clove or two of garlic, according to the quantity of the codlings, and cover them with distilled vinegar; pour over mutton fat, and tie them down with a bladder and leather very tight. Apples, green Codlings, to preserve.—. Gather the codlings when not bigger than French walnuts, with the stalks and a leaf or two on each. Put a handful of vine leaves into a preserving-pan, then a layer of codlings, then vine leaves, and then codlings and vine leaves alternately, until it is full, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed on the top, and fill the pan with spring water; cover it close to keep in the steam, and set it on a slow fire till the apples become soft. Take them out, and pare off the rinds with a penknife, and then put them into the same water again with the vine leaves, but taking care that the water is become quite cold, or it will cause them to crack ; put in a little rock- allum and set them over a slow fire till they are green, then take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make a good syrup and give them a gentle boil three successive days ; put them in small jars with brandy paper over them, and tie them down tight. Apples, golden Pippins, to preserve.— Take the rind of an orange and boil it very tender; lay it in cold water for three days; take two dozen golden pippins, pare, core, and quarter them, and boil them to a strong jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear; take the same quantity of pippins, pare and core them, and put three pounds of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with a pint and a half of spring water; let it boil; skim it well and put in your pippins, with the orange rind cut into long thin slips ; then let them boil fast till the sugar becomes thick and will almost candy ; put in a pint and half of pippin jelly, and boil fast till the jelly is clear; then squeeze in the juice of a fine lemon; give the whole another boil, and