194 CRA CRA in a dry place they are the better for keeping. Crack-nuts.—Mix together eight oun- ces of flour, and eight ounces of sugar; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonsful of raisin wine; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make it into a paste ; add carraways, roll it out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. CRANBERRIES (different Ways of dressing).—For pies and puddings, with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a jar, with the same; this way they eat well with bread, and are very wholesome. Thus done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. Cranberry Jelly.—Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed, as directed in The different Ways of dress- ing Cranberries; sweeten it, and boil it up ; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good lump, or the jelly will not be clear. Cranberry and Bice Jelly.—Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and, by degrees, mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly ; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat with milk or cream. Cranberry Tart.—This tart is made like all other fruit tarts; the best cran- berries should be used and well washed; a quarter of a pound of sugar is the proper quantity for a quart of cranberries ; to this must be added the juice of half a lemon. Serve it cold. CRAYFISH (Bisque of).—Take about fifty or sixty crayfish, stew them in a little water, with carrots, onions, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, salt, and pepper, for half an hour, then drain, and take them out of their'shells; and having laid aside thirty of the tails whole, pound the remainder of the meat with the breasts of two roast fowls, the crumbs of two French rolls, pre- viously soaked in rich broth, and the yolks of three hard eggs. Boil the shells in a little broth, and, with the liquor, dilute the pounded meat, and rub the whole through a silk sieve. Boil a pint and a half of cream, keep it stirring, and pour on the soup; season it, and add the coral of a lobster pounded, and mixed with a little broth; set the whole on the fire, but do not let it boil. When quite done, pour it into the tureen on some previously soaked bread, and put the tails which were reserved, on the soup, and serve it hot. Crayfish (Broiled).9—The fish being boiled, take them out of their shells, and , soak them for a quarter of an hour in white ; wine, with pepper, salt, and shred parsley; | soak also in the same way, an equal num- ; her of fish roes; tie these, alternately, on skewers, dip them in egg, bread them lightly, and broil them of a nice colour. Crayfish Butter (Sauce of).*—Boil your r crayfish in water, with vinegar, parsley, salt, and pepper; take the meat from the shells, dry and pound it well with butter, set the whole on a gentle fire for a quarter r of an hour, and pass it through a sieve into a basin of cold water and let it congeal. . The shells must likewise be pounded, and mix them with the rest; if they do not make it sufficiently red, add a little orcha- net root. Crayfish a la Calonne *—Take the num- ber of crayfish you may want, as fresh as - possible ; split each in half, and put them i into a stewpan with white wine, a little ■ oil, a sliced lemon, salt, and pepper ; let: them stew in this till done ; then dish them; add to the liquor some blond, re- duce, and strain it, and pour it over your crayfish. Crayfish Cheese.*•—Having washed and boiled the fish, as usual, take off the small claws and tails, and set them aside. Chop up the meat that remains in the shells with some other fish, artichoke bottoms, sweet herbs, and butter; mix them well, and put it in a dish in the form of a small cheese, round which lay the tails; cover it with bread crumbs, and colour it in the oven for fifteen minutes. Crayfish Cream.—Boil a pint of cream and some fine sugar; reduce it to about half ; pound the carcasses of eight or more cravfish ; put them to this cream, with a fowl’s gizzard, and boil for about a quarter of an hour; then strain it several times, and bake it between two slow fires. Crayfish (Cullis off*—\\ ash and boil about thirty crayfish in plain water, then take off the shells, and pound them well with the meat of the fish, and a dozen almonds. Cut a pound and a half of fillet of veal, and some ham into slices, and put them into a saucepan with mi onion, carrots, and parsnips; do them until they are about the consistence of veal gravy; then add a little flour and melted bacon; put them on again, and keep them stirring; moisten the whole with good stock, and add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, scallions.