EEL 232 EAU molted butter to broil, basting with the same as they were dipped in. DuiwrLiNC Paste Pie.—Make a puff paste with flour, eggs, butter, salt, and cold water; when it is well worked, let it stand some time ; then roll half of it in very thin sheets, and cut it into small pieces ; put them into boiling water with a little salt, let them boil a few minutes, and take care to separate them in boiling ; then put them in fresh water a moment, and drain it out; make a pie of the remainder of the paste, with butter and Parmesan cheese at the bottom; then a layer of the scalded paste, and one of truffles or mushrooms, mixed with butter, then more paste, and so con- tinue till all is laid one over the other ; finish with the butter and cheese, cover it over with paste like all other pies, and let it bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Dumpling Scotch.—Make a paste of oatmeal and water, put in the middle of it a haddock’s liver, season it well with pepper and salt, and boil it in a cloth. DURCELLE.*—Take small mush- rooms, slialots, parsley, and truffles, shred and wash them well, and press them dry in a napkin; then put them in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a pint of white wine, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice, a bay leaf, and a little garlic ; reduce the whole to a jelly, taking care to stir it frequently ; add to it four spoonsful of reduced allemande, put it into a pan, and set it by for use. E. EAU D’ARGENT.*—Take the rinds of two oranges, the same of two lemons, two drachms of cinnamon, broken in pieces, and two quarts of brandy; distil from this in the the bain-marie alembic a quart of liqueur. Dissolve two pounds and a quarter of sugar in three pints of river water, put the liqueur to it, strain, bottle, and finish it with silver leaf, as directed. See Eau d’Or. Eau de la Cote. Take half a pound of the best cinnamon in powder, half a pound of dates, half a pound of the best Turkey figs, and. the zests of four cedrats, put all these into three gallons of brandy. Let them infuse for six days; at the end f that period distil in a bain-marie; from this you will extract six quarts of the liqueur. Dissolvo nine pounds of fine 6ugar iu six quarts of distilled river water, add it to the liqueur, pass the whole through a jelly-bag, and bottle it. Eau d’Or.*—'l ake the rinds of two fine • lemons, and half a drachm of mace, put to them two quarts of brandy ; distil this in a bain-marie alembic, which will afford half the quantity of liqueur. Dissolve a pound and a half of sugar in a quart of dis- tilled water, and half a pound of orange- flower water; put this to the liqueur, colour it with a little tincture of saffron, strain and bottle it. Take a book of gold leaf, some of which put in a basin, pour a small 1 quantity of the liqueur on it, beat it up .ft with a fork, and put a little parcel of it: into each bottle. ECHAUDES.*—Lay a quartern of flour r on a paste board or slab, make a hole in 1 the centre, in which put an ounce of salt,, and a little water to dissolve it, a pound of • butter, twenty eggs; mix the two latter: well together, then the flour; work it: thoroughly with your hands; if it be very firm add more eggs. When perfectly, smooth, sprinkle a cloth with flour, lay the paste in it, and set it in a cool place for: ten or twelve hours. The next day heat: about three quarts of water, and having : cut your paste into small pieces, about an inch square, and having floured each, put: them into hot but not boiling water, shake the kettle the instant after you have thrown them in, and as they rise, if they are firm to the touch, they are sufficiently done, and must be taken out of the sauce-- pan, and thrown into cold water; let them remain two or three hours; then drain, and leave them again for three hours more, and then bake them for about twenty minutes. EELS (Baked).—Skin and clean some eels ; take a shallow pan, and cut the eels in lengths according to the depth of the pan ; put them in, let them stand upright in it; the pan should be filled : put in a little water, some salt, pepper, slialots cut small, some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut small; setthemin the oven to bake; when they are done take the liquor that comes from them, put it into a saucepan, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little white wine. Eels ( Boiled).—The smallest are the best for boiling ; they should be boiled in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which must be served up with them and the liquor. Serve with chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eei. a la Broche*—Skin, and rut a large eel into pieces, stick them with small of anchovies, and soak them a pieces