CUR CUR 215 quick boil, take them from the fire, and let them settle a little; then give them an- other boil, and put in a pint of currant j^lly, drawn as directed, till you see the jelly null flake from the skimmer: then remove it from the fire, let it settle a little; skim them, and put them into glasses, and as they cool, take care to disperse them equally. Currants for Tarts (to preserve).— Put a pound of sugar into a preserving- pan, for every pound and a quarter of , currants, with a sufficient quantity of ■ currant juice to dissolve the sugar ; when it boils, skim it, and put in the currants, and boil them till they are very clear ; put them into a jar, cover them with i brandy-paper, and keep them in a dry place. Currant Pudding.—A pound of cur- rants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four ; spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea- . spoonful of ginger, a little powder sugar : and a little salt; boil this for three hours. Currants (Piaiafa of).*—Take two quarts of brandy, two of currant juice, l two pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm of pounded cinnamon, and the same of cloves. Take the seeds from the currants I before you press out the juice ; rectify the brandy; then add the cinnamon, cloves, and juice. When it has stood a month, draw it off, dissolve the sugar in it, and then filter the ratafia. Currants (Ratajia of Black).*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, one quart of river water, two pounds of black cur- rants, three of crushed sugar, one of bit- ter cherries, six ounces of black currant leaves, and a drachm of cinnamon or cloves. Bruise the leaves, and fruit, and spice, and then put them into the brandy to infuse for a month. Dissolve the sugar in the water, and when the ratafia is drawn off, mix the syrup with it; then filter and bottle it. Currant Shrub.—To five pints of currant juice, either red or white, one pound and a half of loaf sugar; when dissolved, put to it one gallon of rum or 1 brandy; clear it through a flannel bag. Currant Syrup.*—Put five or six pounds of red, two of white currants, and two pottles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush them, and press the juice through it mto a pan, and place it in a cellar to fer- ment; in a week’s time, pass the juice mrough a straining-bag, and having clari- fied and boiled to fort souffle four pounds of sugar, put the juice to it, and boil them together once ; sliim, and take it from the fire. It is necessary that the currant juice should ferment, to prevent its be- coming a jelly in the bottles. Currant Tart*—Pick your currants from the stalks carefully, and having lined a dish with puff paste, strew powder sugar over the bottom of the dish ; then put the fruit, then sugar, and so on, in alternate layers, till your dish is full, then cover, and bake it. Currant tart is much improved by add- ing either raspberries or mulberries to the currants. Currant (Red or White) Tartlets*— Having taken the seeds from a pound of fine ripe currants, mix them, in a pan, with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; put these into the tartlets, made as usual (See Tartlets.) When baked, make a thin jelly with a quarter of a pound of crushed currants, and two ounces of powder sugar, with which the tartlets should be masked. Currants en Timbale.—Pick and wash some fine red currants, and set them to stew gently in thick clarified sugar; and when done enough, mix with them lemon juice, and a little isinglass, serve in tim- bale moulds. Currant Water.*—Pick a pound and a half of currants, and half a pound of raspberries, both quite ripe ; crush them, press the juice through a sieve, and put to it a quart of water, and three quarters of a pound of sugar; let it stand half an hour, then pass it through a napkin, pour it into decanters, and set them in iced water. Currant (Fresh) Water.—Take a quart of fresh currants, and squeeze them through a sieve with your hand ; add two large wooden spoonsful of powdered sugar, one lemon, and some water; make it to your taste; strain it through a sieve, it will then be fit for use. Currant Water made of Jelly.—Take two large spoonsful of currant jelly, and mix it with a little warm water ; then put one gill of syrup, squeeze two or three lemons in, and let the rest be water; taste and make it to your palate, putting a a little cochinenl in to make it a fine colour; strain it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. Currant Wine.*—Take sixteen pounds of currants, three gallons of water ; break the currants with your hands in the water, strain it oft'; put to it fourteen pounds of