CAL CAN 116 and moisten with stock. When done and well flavoured, put to it the yollcs of three eggs, diluted with milk, thicken it over the fire, and when ready to serve, put in a little verjuice. Another way.—Boil the lights and part of the liver, roast the heart stuffed with suet, sweet herbs, parsley, all chopped small, a few crumbs, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little lemon peel; mix it with the yolk of an egg. When the lights and liver are boiled, chop them very small, and put them in a saucepan with a bit of butter rolled in flour, some pepper and salt, with a little vinegar or lemon juice , fry the other part of the liver with some slices of bacon, lay the mince at the bottom, the heart in the middle, the fried liver and bacon round, with crisped parsley. Serve with plain butter. Calf’s Tails—Must always be scalded ; braise them; they may then be served with any sauce, and in any way you choose. Calf’s Tails au Blanc.*—Prepare some calves’ tails as en Terrine, and haying mixed the flour with them, moisten with water ; put to them a bunch of parsley and scallions, two bay leaves, mushrooms, salt, and a little pepper; skim as directed in the abovementioned receipt; add some small onions, and let it simmer, but not boil. When ready to serve, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs. This ragout maybe made brown as well as white. , Calf’s Tailsand Cabbages.—Scald calves tails and pickled pork, scald also a good savoy for about half an hour ; take it. out, press all the water from it, cut it m quarters, tie it, and braise all together in stock, with slices of bacon, spices, and herbs. When done, take them out, and clear away the fat. Serve with good thick ^Calf’s Tails en Macedoine.*—'Take eight calves’ tails with their skins on, scald and blanch them; cut, and boil them m Madeira wine ; when done, drain, and put them on the table-dish; garnish with veal sweet- breads a la Flan,ancle, onions glazed, and mask each piece of the tails very cnrefu y with a Macedoine. . Calf’s Tails en Terrine.*-Divide seven or eight calves’ tails at the joints, toss them up in some butter, taking care not to . colour them ; then add four ful of flour, mix them well, and put in four ladiesful of consomme, and stir the ragout till it boils ; skim it well; put to it a small basket of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and some scallions. When it is about threb parts done, skim oft all the fat, and when quite done, take out the pieces of tails, and the mushrooms, with a spoon with holes in it, and put them in another saucepan ; add to the sauce a ladleful of veloute, and when properly reduced strain it over the tails ; poach some veal quenelles, put them into your tureen ; toss up some shoulder of veal kernels, and veal sweet- breads cut in pieces, in alittle butter, and having drained, put them also into the tureen. Thicken your ragout with five yolks of eggs, stir them in over the stove, but do not let it boil ; as soon as you find it sufficiently thick, pour it into the tureen, over the quenelle, and other articles, which must be kept hot. Calf’s Tongue.*—Must hang till tender ; lard and season it moderately, and boil it. They may be dressed in any form, and . served with what sauce you please. Calf’s Tongues au Miruton.* Prepare and lard as above, braise them. When i done, and cold, cut them in slices, put. them in a stewpan, with mushrooms and . sweet herbs, moistened with veal gravy or blond; when done, add a little vinegar. Calf’s Tongue, with Sauce piquante. Soak four calves’tongues, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour ; then cool, trim, j and lard them with well-seasoned bacon. Put the tongues in a braise, or stew them with carrots, onions, cloves, thyme, bay leaves, and a ladleful of stock. 1 hey will require two hours cooking. M hen done, take off the skins, glaze, and place them round a dish, with an oval crouton in the centre. Serve with sauce piquante. CANAPES.*—Cut some slices of bread about an inch thick, and having taken off the crusts, form the crumb into whatever shapes- you may think proper ; such as hearts, squares, lozenges, Ac.; ir\ them in good olive oil, to a nice colour, and drain them. Take some anchovies, hard e<rrrS (the yolks and whites separate), gherkins, capers, Ac. ; chop them small, place them on the fried bread (having previously seasoned them with salt and vinegar), and pour over the whole, an serve this as a side dish. Canapes.*—Roll out three quarters ot a pound of puff paste, keeping it long and narrow ; do not let it be more than a quarter of an inch thick, and about three inches wide. Cut the paste across with a sharp knife, in slips three eighths of an inch in width, and place them on the cut side, on a baking-plate, each two inches