15 AN! 15 ANI ounces of sugar in powder, and the yolks of live eggs into a small pan, and work them well together for a quarter of an hour; then add to them four drachms of piiise etoile, picked, washed, and dried in an oven. Put this preparation into tin moulds, in form of a jalousie, lightly but- tered, so that the dents de loup as they spread take the form of little navettes, the length and thickness of your little linger ; then mask them all over with an ounce of white anise de Verdun. Put them to bake m a moderate oven, until they are of a nice light colour ; then separate them, take them out of the moulds, and place them on a baking-tin to dry in the oven, to make them crisp. Anise etoile a la Fromage Bavarois.*— Take two drachms of green anise, two drachms of anise ttoilt, and half a drachm of fennel seeds, and half a drachm of cori- ander seeds; bruise the whole of them, put them into two glasses of scalding milk, in which you have previously dissolved eight ounces of powder sugar. Let it in- fuse for one hour, then pass it through a fine sieve or cloth. Then mix with it°six drachms of isinglass ; place it in your ice mould; as soon as it begins to congeal add to it your fromage a la creme, and finish the same as green walnuts a la fromage bavarois. ° Aniseed Genoise.*■—This is made like the Almond Genoise, with the addition of a spoonful of green aniseed ttoild, washed perfectly clean, put, instead of the almond paste, into the preparation ; and these are glazed with four ounces of sugar, with red anise strewed over to finish them. Anise (white) Madelaines.*—Grate the zestfs ot two cedrats, oranges, or lemons, upon a piece of sugar; then crush and mix It wnh powder sugar; weigh nine ounces ui it and put into a saucepan, with half a pound of sifted flour, four yolks and six , 0l® °SSs. two spoonsful of Andave wiT/dy, and,a little salt; stir this mixture th a spatula, and continue stirring ex- actly one minute after the whole is well incorporated hut no longer. Then clarify ten ounces of butter, taking care to skim it w henever the curd rises to the top • When quite clear pour it into another saucepan ; as soon as it is a little cooled fomitinto u madelaine mould, then turn it out of this into a second mould, and so on until eight moulds are buttered • then heat the butter again, and fill eight more moulds, and proceed in this manner until thirty-two moulds are thus prepared; which must be kept upright that the butter may he preserved in each. Put the re- mainder ot the butter to the paste, which place over a gentle stove, stirring it con- stantly to prevent its sticking to the sauce- pan, and ns soon as your preparation becomes liquid (this the melted butter will very soon effect) remo ve it from the fire, and put a spoonful of it into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven; in about five-and-twenty or thirty minutes try if they are firm, and if they are also a good colour take them out. Then boil a quarter of a pound of fine sugar to cassd, glaze the madelaines on one side by dipping it into the sugar, and as you take each cake out strew over it either red or white anise. Aniseed (Oil of)*—Is made like ani- seed water, the only difference is, that an additional pound of sugar is necessary to make the syrup. J Anise (Petits Pains of)*—Put two glasses of water and two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, and when the li- quid boils take it from the fire, and mix with it six ounces of sifted flour ; amalga- mate it thoroughly, so that it may °be quite free from lumps; then dry it over the fire. Take it out of the saucepan, and add to it two eggs, and two ounces of powder sugar; mix them well in, and then put in two more eggs and the zeste of a lemon minced fine: when these are also We 1 incorporated, add another egg or two if the paste (which should be rather firm) will bear them. Sprinkle your paste slab with flour, cut the paste into pieces, each the size of a walnut; roll these with as little flour as possible, to about three inches long, and as you roll them place them on a baking-tin two inches apart - dorez and bake them in a tolerably warm oven till they are firm. Then cut some anise into fillets, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar tocasse, and the moment it reaches that degree set it by the side of the fire that the sugar may not lose its whiteness - dip the top and one side of each petit pain in the sugar as quick as possible, and as you take them out, strew the anise over hem lightly. Red anise is also used for these petits pains. Aniseed Ratnf a *-To make a quart of this liquor, boil a pound of sugar with a demisetier of water, until the simnr is quite clear ; then heat another demisetier o water, and put in it three ounces of unise; take it from the fire before it boils; Jet it stand a quarter of an hour, and then pour it with three pints of brandy into the