CIIA COF 107 ounces of rousted coffee in a gill of boiling qreaiu for half an hour; then strain the oream through a napkin ; sweeten and add three yolks and two whole eggs ; mix them well, and pass it through a bolting several times. Heat eight small custard moulds ; by dipping them in warm water; having in the mean time boiled some sugar to grand casse ; pour it into the moulds ; then drain and fill them with the preparation, taking care to stir it well. Let them stand over a small fire, but with plenty of fire at the top ; when done, turn them on a dish ; heat about a cupful of coffee a I’eau, and pour it over each cream, and serve them. Coffee Cream.-—Boil a calFs foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly ; clear off the sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of very strong coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass, to be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil. up, andjpour into the dish. It should jelljr, but not stiff. Observe that your coffee be fresh. Coffee Cream au Bain-marie.*—Infuse a quarter fof a pound of roasted coffee in six glasses of boiling milk ; cover it close till lukewarm, then strain, and mix it a little at a time, with ten yolks, one whole egg, a grain of salt, and ten ounces of sugar. When thoroughly incorporated, strain it again, and finish as usual. See Cream an Bain-marie. Coffee Cream a la Francaise.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of coffee, and infuse it in five glasses of boiling milk; cover it close, and let it stand till lukewarm ; then strain, and mix it with ten ounces of powder sugar, a grain of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs. Then proceed as directed in Cocoa Cream a la Franfaise. Coffee, Creme of ( Liqueur).*—Roast and grind half a pound of the best coffee, and infuse it for a week in three quarts of brandy ; at the end of that time distil it in the bain-marie, but be careful not to have too much heat, as in thnt case the coffee is apt to rise, and by that means spoil the liqueur. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in the same quantity of water ; mix it with the liqueur, and then strain it. Coffee (Small Custards of).*—Measure fifteen of your moulds full of cream, and boil it; and having, in the mean time, lightly roasted three ounces of coffee, throw it into the boiling cream ; cover it close, and let it infuse for a quarter of an hour; then pass it through a napkin. and proceed as directed. See Small Custards. Coffee Eggs.—Make some good strong coffee ; let it rest to clear as usual, and sweeten it with sugar according to your discretion; beat u~p six yolks of eggs, with about four cups of coffee, and sift it; pour this into little moulds in the form of eggs, or of any other, (do not fill them quite), and bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or with a braising-pan; cover between two fires. They are made after this man- ner, in the shapes of any fruits or birds, if jmu have proper moulds, either of copper or china, &c. Coffee Fanclionnettes.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of coffee, and infuse it for a quarter of an hour in three glasses of milk; cover it quite close ; pass it through a napkin, and then add it to the other ingre- dients, and proceed as directed. See Fanchonettes. To flavour these with chocolate, grate a quarter of a pound, and mix with the other ingredients, instead of the coffee ; in this latter, two ounces of sugar must be omitted. Coffee au Fromage.—The mode of in- fusing coffee for creams is by throwing your coffee into the whole of your cream ; but in making co fee au fromage, only use one half of the cream for the infusion, which, when cold, mix with the other half. Beat the whole on ice, add isin- glass, and then fill the mould, &c. &c. Coffee (FromageBavarois of).*-—Having roasted a quarter of a pound of coffee, put it into two glasses of boiling milk, cover the infusion, and when about lukewarm, pass it through a napkin ; then mix with it. half a pound of powder sugar, and six drachms of isinglass, and when they are perfectly incorporated, strain it again. Put your preparation into the vessel with ice, and as soon as it begins to take, mix with it a plate of whipped cream, and finish in the same manner as all other Fro- mage Bavarois. Coffee frothed or whipped*—Take a quarter of a pound of ground coffee, make a very strong infusion with it, and pass this through a straining-bag ; having dis- solved three quarters of a poundof powder sugnr in a pint of double cream, and the yolks of six eggs, put in the coffee, of which there should be no more than three cups, nnd whip it ns directed for Frothed. Cream. Coffee Ice Cream.—Make three dishes of strong coffee; pour it off very clear, to