CYD CYD 220 tliis preparation, while hot, into a raised crust, at least ten inches in height, and bake it for two hours, or two and a half, in a moderate oven. Serve it hot. Custard a la Turque*—Put a pound and a half of good rice into cold water over the fire, and when it boils, take it off and drain it well; then put it into a large saucepan, with twelve glasses of good milk, a pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which have been rasped the peels of four oranges or cedrats, and a grain of salt. Put the saucepan over a moderate fire to swell the rice, taking care that none of the grains burst; stir it a little, and, when done, add to it two pounds of dry currants, the yolks of twelve eggs, and some spoonsful of Chantilly cream ; after which mix in the twelve whites whipped firm. Prepare the crust in the usual way; bake it in a mo- derate oven two hours and a half; when ready for table brown it with a salamander. CUTLETS (Maintenon). — Cut small neat chops, free from bone, off a loin or neck of mutton, saute them one minute on the fire, on both sides, in butter, together with plenty of fine herbs chopped, pep- per, and salt, and very little nutmeg; butter your papers, dip each cutlet well into the fine herbs, and then into bread crumbs, fold them neatly in the paper, and broil immediately. Serve with a sharp sauce in a sauce-boat. Cutlets en Surprise.*—Take some puff paste, roll it out to a moderate thickness, and cut it into pieces the form of small hearts, in the same manner as Mutton Cut- lets cn Papilloles, lay some apricot marma- lade on them, turn them over, press the edges together, lay them on a tin, and bake them. Cut some common paste into bands so as to resemble the mutton bones ; bake, but do not colour them. When the cutlets are done, dorez them; crush some maca- roons, which sprinkle over, instead of bread; make a skewer redhot, and lay it on the cutlets to imitate the marks of the gridiron. Join the bones to the cutlets with caramel sugar, then dish them neatly. CYDER.—Cyder is a fruit liquor pre- pared by means of fermentation, from the expressed juice of different sorts of apples. The process by which this liquor is formed has much similarity in all the different districts, although there is much diver- sity in regard to the care nnd management which are bestowed upon it. The varieties of apples which are grown and cultivated in the different fruit dis- tricts of the kingdom for this intention are extremely numerous ; the following is a list of the most approved : Styre. Coccagee. Golden Harvey. Red Streak. Golden Pippin. Queening. Cowanne Red. There have been several varieties of apples introduced from Normandy, and are thence called Red Norman, \ ellow Norman, &c. i\Ir. Knight’s new kinds are also highly esteemed for cyder; namely, The Downton Pippin. The Grange Apple. The Foxley, and The Brengewood Pippin. Gathering the Fruit.—Great care should be taken that it is sufficiently ripe before it is removed from the trees, otherwise the cyder will be harsh, rough, and unpleasant in its taste. It should he gathered on a dry day, when the fruit has acquired such a state of maturity as to be ready to drop from the tree, when the limbs or branches of it should be slightly shaken, and disbur- thened in a partial manner of its apples, thus taking only such as are in a ripe state, leaving the others to acquire a due degree of maturity. It is indeed thought best to make three gatherings of the crop, keeping each by itself. The latter gather- ing, as well as the wind-falls, can, how- ever, only be employed in making inferior cyder; tho prime cyder must be drawn from the first gatherings which have been made. The merit of cyder will always depend much on the proper mixture, or rather on the proper separation, of the fruits. Each kind should be collected separately, and kept till it becomes perfectly mellow ; for tliis purpose, in the common practice of the country, they are placed in heaps of ten inches or a foot thick, and exposed to the sun, and air, and rain ; not being over covered, except in very severe frosts. The strength and flavour of the future liquor is however increased by keeping the fruit under cover some time before it is ground ; but unless a situation can be afforded it in which it is exposed to a free current ot air, and where it can be spread very thin, it is apt to contract an unpleasant smell, which will much affect the cyder produced from it. No criterion appears to be known