CAR CAR 129 C .inn aw ay Dragees.*■—Take any quan- tity of carraway seeds you think proper, put them into a preserving-pan, and when quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the size you wish; then proceed as directed for Almond Drugees. Carraway Faffs.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a solkl froth; add to them I sifted sugar and some carraway seeds, pounded very fine ; put the mixture, with a spoon, in pieces about the size of a j shilling, as high as you can, on sheets of I damp wafer paper, and bake them in a slack oven. , Carraway Water.-—-Take three gallons I of proof spirits, and half a gallon of wa- l ter; add to them half a pound of carraway S seeds, bruised; distil and sweeten the i juice with a pound and a half of brown : sugar. CARROTS—If young, need only be wiped when boiled ; if old, they must be i scraped before boiling. Slice them into a i dish, and pour melted butter over them. Carrots an Beurre*—Scrape ten or ' twelve carrots, as near of a size as pos- sible ; cut them into thin slices, blanch i them in water with salt and a small piece i of butter. When done, drain them in a cullender, and then put them into a stew- i pan with a good bit of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, shake them over the i lire, pour to them a spoonful of veloutd, or ' Water only, to prevent the butter from oil- ' ing; do not let it quite boil. You may add fine herbs, if you please. Carrot Cuke*—Take a dozen large and very red carrots ; scrape and boil them in water with a little salt; when done, drain them, take out the hearts, and rub the rest through a bolting-cloth ; put them in a stewpan, and dry them over the fire. | Make a cream pdtissiere, with about half a pint of milk ; and when done mix it with the caiTots; add a pinch of minced orange flowers pralinee, three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, four whole eggs ; put Jn, one at a time, the yolks of six more, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; nux all these ingredients together well • whip up the six whites to a froth, and stir them in by degrees. Butter a mould, and put some crumb of bread in it, in a minute or two, turnout all the bread, and three quarters of an hour before the cake is wanted, pour the preparation into the mould and bake it. Serve it hot. Carrots dressed the Dutch Way.—Slice some carrots very thin, and just cover them with water; season them with pepper and salt, cut a good many onions and par- sley small, a piece of butter; let them simmer over a slow fire till done. Carrots a la Flumande.—Reel and par- boil some small carrots, then put them into a stewpan with butter and salt; let them stew over a slow fire till done ; then take them off, and after stirring them up with more butter, serve them. Carrot Fritters.—Beat two or three boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon ; add to them six eggs and a handful of flour; moisten them with either cream, milk, or white wine, and sweeten them. Beat all together well, and fry in boiling lard. IV hen of a good colour, take them otf and. squeeze on them the juice of a Seville orange, and strew over fine sugar. Carrots (Garniture of").*—Cut fine carrots into pieces about an inch in length, in the form of musrooms, garlic, or any thing else you may like; blanch them in boiling water with salt and butter, take them out and put them into a stewpan with stock, or consommde and fine sugar; stew it to a glaze, and if your sauce be not thick enough, add a little butter mixed with flour, herbs, and sauce tournee. Serve with fried crusts. Carrots a la d’Orleans.-—Take a few young carrots, turn them of an equal size, and cut them in slices about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and blanch them well. Next, lay them on a cloth to drain; put them into a stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little broth, and let them boil over a large fire ; when reduced to glaze, add a good bit of fresh butter and a little salt. The butter must adhere to the car- rots when you serve, as no sauce ought to be seen. Carrot Pudding.—Boil a large carrot tender, then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit powder, four yolks and two whites of ®§SS> a pint of cream, a little ratafia, a laige spoonful of orange-flower or rose water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow' dish lined with paste; turn it out, and serve with sugar over. Carrots en Puree. — Scrape and cut some carrots in quarters, take out the in- side pale yellow, and do not use it. When you have washed the outsides, boil them in plenty of water, with salt, till tender, then drain them on a sieve, and put them in a stewpan with a good bit of butter; stir them over the lire with a wooden K