45 BEA BEA in the bain-marie. One hour is enough for the green. Beans (French) to keep.—Gather them on a dry day, and lay them in the sun. Keep them in a dry place in papers; before you use them, put them in warm water. Beans (French) Lies*—Scaldyourbeans, drain and cool them ; put into a saucepan two ounces of butter and some sweet herbs chopped fine. When the butter is hot, add two spoonsful of flour, a glass of stock, a little salt and pepper; as soon as the sauce boils, put in the beans, and toss them up; just before you serve them thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. You may add lemon juice if you think proper. Beans (French) a la Lionnaise*—Cut some onions in slices, and fry them of a good colour in oil; add to them some french beans previously boiled in salt water with shred parsley, salt, and pepper; toss them up with the onions. Place them in your dish; heat some vinegar in the frying-pan, and pour it over them. Beans (French) a la Maitre d’Hotel.* —Prepare your beans as for boiling; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, shred parsley, and green onions; when the butter is melted, add the French beans, previously boiled, turn them a few times over the fire, shake in some flour, and moisten with a little good stock, well seasoned; boil till the sauce is consumed; then put in the yolks of three eggs, beat up with some milk; and, lastly, add a little vinegar or verjuice. Cullis or veal gravy may be used instead of the eggs. Beans (French) pickled.—Lay them in salt and water for four days, then add a little vinegar, and boil them in the liquor; when they become green, drain, wipe them dry, and put the beans into a jar. Boil some vinegar, ginger, mace, pepper, cloves, and mustard seed, all bruised, and, while hot, pour it on the beans. Cover them close when cold. Beans (French') a la Proven$ale.—Boil your beans in salt and water, drain and lay them on the fire in a stewpan until perfectly dry and hot. Squeeze two small pieces of garlic on the dresser with a wooden spoon, mixed with a little fresh butter; put this and a quarter of a pound ot butter to the beans, and stir it well till properly combined. Mix some parsley shalots, and green onions, chopped fine and a little olive oil. Keep stirring, sea- son it well, and add the juice of a lemon, serve it very hot. Beans (French) Ragout of.—Do not split, but cut your beans in two, fry and drain them : shake over a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, an onion, a lit- tle pounded cloves, cayenne, and salt; some catsup ; boil them together, shak- ing it. 1 ake out the onion, and serve hot. Beans (French) Ragout of, d VAnglaise. —Take a quarter of a peck of beans, string and cut them across, but do not split them, lay them in salt and water a short time, and then dry them thoroughly in a coarse cloth. Fiy them of a nice brown, and having poured off all the fat, put in a quarter of a pint of hot water, stir it and let it boil; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of catsup, one of mushroom pickle, some good gravy, an onion stuck with six cloves, pounded mace, half a nutmeg grated, pepper, and salt; stir all together well, throw in the beans, shake them about a minute or two, take out the onion, and dish the beans with the sauce. Garnish as you please. Beans ( French') Ragout, with Cabbage. . Choose a nice close cabbage, and havin°- cleaned and trimmed it, parboil, and take out great part of the middle, which must be chopped very small with a few boiled French beans, a carrot, and a turnip, also boiled; mash altogether, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and stew them a few minutes with some butter, stirring all the time. In the mean while tie up the cabbage that it may not fall to pieces, and put it into a saucepan with four spoonsful of water, two of wine, one of catsup, the same of mushroom pickle, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a little pepper: cover it close and stew it gently - when tender, place it in the table-dish, fill it with the mashed roots, and put round it the ragout of beans as above, and serve it hot. The liquor the cabbage was boiled in may be added. Beans (French) Ragm'it, with Forcemeat. '—Make a ragout of French beans, as di- rected, d VAnglaise; mash two large well- boiled carrots, season them with pepper and salt; mix with them apiece of butter and the yolks of two eggs ; put this into a dish, form it according to your fancy; bake it for a quarter of an hour in a quick oven ; when done, clean your dish, pour the ragout round, and serve. Beans (French) RagoAt, with Parsnips. - Boil two large parsnips till quite ten- der, then scrape them into a saucepan.