MAR MAR 344 the paste into a large preserving pan, with four pounds of the best lump sugar finely- pounded and sifted; set the pan on a coal fire, stir and work them up together with a large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the bottom; be very careful that none of the paste adheres to the pan ; the consequence of such neglect would be, that the march- pane would be spotted witli yellow, and would smell unpleasantly. Whilst work- ing it up, the paste, which when put in was tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, and a great deal of vapour may be observed; the first is caused by the sugar dissolved by the heat and moisture, the second by the evaporation of the wa- ter. Continue to stir and work it up in this manner without ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of that time, you can touch the paste without its adhering to your fingers, it is suificiently dried; in which case remove it all to one side of the pan, clean the bottom and side of the other, sprinkle it well with flour, then put the paste to that part, clean and sprinkle that side also; then take the pan by both ears and move it round and round, so that the paste may all unite together: as soon as it has done so, put it into a sheet of paper, or, if you want to use it immediately, on a well floured table. This paste, if the almonds be well pounded and then thoroughly dried, will keep good for six months; if these two precautions are not properly attended to, it will become sour in ten days. Marchpane Royal *—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and throw them into cold water, drain and pound them, moistening with orange flower and plain water, but take care not to put too much at once. The almonds being reduced to a paste, put them into a preserving pan with half a pound of powder sugar, set the pan on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which will be sufficiently so if, when you touch it, it no longer sticks to your finger, then take it out and place it on a plate or wafer paper, previously sprinkled with sugar: as soon as it is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your hand to the size of your little finger; form them into rings, and lay them on iron gratings; glaze and put them into a brisk oven to colour. The above paste may also be employed as follows: roll it out and cut it in half, spread over one piece apricot marmalade, or any other preserve you please ; cover it with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, crescents, &c., accord- ing to your fancy, lay them on the grating as above, glaze and colour them in a quick oven. MARIGOLDS (Conserve of).— 'fate four ounces of marigold flowers, conserve of hyacinth and hermes, of each four drachms; the powder of pearl, two ounces; and as much syrup of citron as will male them into a conserve, mixing and bruishg them together with refined sugar. MARINADE Quite*—Cut three crr- rots and four onions in slices, put tliam into a stewpan with some butter, two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves; f£t these on the fire; when the carrots aid onions are done, add some parsley aid scallions, a dessert spoonful of flour, a gliss of vinegar, two of stock, salt, and pepper. Simmer the marinade for three quarters of an hour, then strain it through a horse har sieve, and set it by for use. MARJ ORAM Conserve. — Take tie tops and tenderest part of sweet marp- ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortaror bowl; take double its weight of fine sugsr, boil it with marjoram water till it is as thick as syrup, then put in your beaen marjoram Marjoram (Essence of).—Take sone marjoram, pick off the leaves and lay than to dry in a warm place for about a coude of hours, then take a large-mouthed botle, and put the leaves into it, let the bottlebe filled with them, and pour upon them whe, brandy, proof spirit, or vinegar, and let them steep for fourteen days. Marjoram Sweet (to preserve). — Ieat up very well the white v of an egg, flen beat very fine and sift sorite double-refned sugar ; take some marjoram and rub i on a glass that is quite clean, and lay i in the form of the glass; so do it withthe egg, then sear it with the sugar on it,and lay it on paper to dry. MARMALADE*—Marmalade ma- be composed of almost any fruits; the lest, however, for this purpose are apriots, peaches, oranges, quinces, egg-pluns, apples, &c. They are usually made by boiling the fruit and sugar together o a kind of pulp, stirring them constaitly whilst on the fire : it is kept in pts, which must not be covered till the lar- rnalade is quite cold. M a n m a lade ( Transparen t).—T ake s me very pale Seville oranges, and cut tlem into quarters, take out the pulp, pu it into a bason, and take out all the skin aid seeds ; put the peels into a little salt nd water, and leave them to soak in it all