HAR IIEA SJ9 3 Hare, to Stew.—Lard and stuff a hare, and put it into a saucepan, with two quarts of good gravy,, one of port wine, a lemon sliced, a bundle of sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a dozen cloves; cover it close, and let it stew over a slow fire till three parts done; then take it out, place it in a dish ; mix to- gether bread crumbs, sweet herbs, shred small, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg; Strew them over the hare. Haiie Soup. — Having skinned and cleaned the hare, cut it in pieces and put them into a stewpan with the following in- gredients :—Two onions, each with a cou- ple of cloves in them, parsley, bay leaf, thyme, basil, marjoram, a little mace, and two or three glasses of port wine: set the whole over the stove to simmer; in an hour's time, add as much boiling stock as will cover the hare ; then let it simmer again till done. Take out the meat. Strain the liquor, and lay some crumb of bread in it. Take all the bones out, pound the hare, rub it through a sieve, add the broth to it, and season the whole to your taste. Hare Slewed.—Having skinned your bare, divide just below the ribs; cut the fore part into pieces, and put them into a Stewpan with a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, peppercorns, an anchovy, and a bunch of sweet herbs; add suffi- cient water to cover them, and let them stew gently. In the meanwhile make a good stuffing, which put into the other part; tie it up, lard and roast it; flour it well, and baste with either butter or small beer. When the stew is tender, take out the meat, strain the liquor, add to it a glass of red wine, a spoonful of ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; stir it over the fire till pretty thick ; then take up the hare, lay it in a dish, place the stewed pieces round, and pour the sauce over. Have some good gravy in a sauce ureen. HARICOT by way of Soup.—Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, put the scrag into a stewpan with a quart of water, four large carrots, and turnips; boil it gently over a slow fire till all the goodness is out of the meat; then bruise the vegetables into the soup to thicken it. Try six onions (sliced) in butter, and put the other part of the meat to the soup, and stew till the latter is tender ; season with pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a tureen. HARTSHORN Cream.—Boil a quar- ter of a pound of hartshorn-shavings in three pints of water; when reduced to half a pint, strain it through a jelly-bag ; put i it to a pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and give them one boil together; then put it into cups or glasses, and let them stand till cold, when turn them out on a dish; stick some sliced I blanched almonds on the top of each. White wine and sugar is usually eaten with them. Hartshorn Flummery.—Boil half a pound of hartsbom-shavings in three pints of water till reduced to one pint; strain it into a basin and set it by till lukewarm; then put to it a pint of thick cream (boiled and cold), a gill of white wine, two spoons- ful of orange-flower water, and a sufficient quantity of powder-sugar to sweeten it; stir all these together till well mixed; dip your moulds in warm water, put in the flummery; when cold, turn them on a dish with cream, white wine, and sugar, mixed together and poured round them. Cut a few almonds blanched into thin slips. lengthwise, and stick in the top of each. Hartshorn Jelly *—Grate a pound of hartshorn, and put it into a saucepan with three quarts of water; set it on the fire • and boil it till reduced to half; then strain it into an earthen pan. Clean the sauce- pan well, and put into it the white of an egg, and a small quantity of water, and whisk it to a froth; put to the decoction of hartshorn, a pound of crushed sugar; , add these to the white of egg, set the saucepan on the fire and skim it well; then add the juice of six lemons strained, and three pints of white wine; give the whole a few boils, then pass it two or three times through a jellv-bag (in which put a little cinnamon). When the jelly is per- fectly clear, pour it into your moulds. The jelly should be strained near the fire, or in a warm place, otherwise it will con- geal, and consequently not strain properly. HASH (cold).—Mince a nice white piece of veal; wash and core some anchovies; take some pickled oysters, pickled cucum- bers, and a lemon; shred and mix them with the veal, and place it in a dish; lay round it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, pickled cucumbers sliced, whole pickled oysters, mushrooms, and capers; lettuces shred small; pour in oil and vinegar, salt and pepper, and serve. IIEATHCOCK (to tote).—Open the skin of a heatbcock, take the meat from the breast, aud mince it with beef suet, sweet herbs three artichoke bottoms