MUS 355 MUS i as much white vinegar into the pan as will be sufficient to cover them; give it one warm, and turn the whole into a glass ox- stone jar. They will keep for two years. Mushrooms (Pickled.)* — Boil them in milk, then wipe them dry with a flannel. Boil some white vinegar with mace, nut- meg, and ginger, and let it stand till cold, then put it to the mushrooms, and bottle it; when bottled, pour in a little sweet oil before tying on the bladders. Mushrooms (to Pickle) White.—Cut off the stalks of some small button musbx-ooms, rub the skins off with flannel dipped in salt, and then throw them into milk and water. Drain them out, and put them into a stewpan, strewing over them a handful of salt; cover them close, and put them over a gentle stove for five minutes, to draw out all the water. Then put them on a coarse cloth to drain till they are cold ; put them into bottles, coi-k them, make quite hot through in the bain marie, then put them by for use. Mushroom Powder.*•—Take half a peck of large mushi-ooms, wash them clean fx-om grit, cut off the stalks, put them into a Saucepan without auy water, a quarter of an ounce of mace, two spoonsful of pepper powdered, two onions stuck with cloves, a handful of salt, some allspice and nutme°- if you like, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Let it stew till the liquor is dried up, then lay them on sieves to dry, till • theY j^ll heat to a powder. Bottle, and cork it down close for use ; a tea-spoonful added to gravy or soup, a minute or two before it is taken off the fire, gives a fine flavour. Mushroom Powder.—After the mush- rooms or champignons are dried whole, they may be set before the fire till crisp ; then grind and sift them through a fine sieve, and preserve in small bottles closelv corked. J Mushrooms (Quintessence of.)—This de- licate relish is obtained, by sprinkling ' SOI)i0 button or flap mushrooms over with : 8 llttle and three hours after, mash 1 them; the following day, strain off the 1 . Iu0r that will flow from them, and boil it 1 in a stewpan till reduced to half. It will I not keep long, but many prefer it on ac- 1 count of the flavour of the mushrooms not being overpowered by the spices, which it is necessary to put into ketchup to nre- 1 serve them. 1 Mushroom Loaves.—Wash some small button mushrooms, the same as for pick- ling, and boil them a few minutes in a little water ; add to them a little cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper. Boil these up, take the crumbs out of some Trench rolls, and fill them with the mushrooms. Mushrooms (Ragout of).—Take some large mushrooms, scrape the insides of them, and broil them till they are brown ; then put them into some gravy, thickened with a little roux, a very little Madeira, salt, Cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Give the whole a boil, and then serve. Mushrooms (Ragout of) Brown* Pre- pare your mushrooms as for white ragofu ; when minced, and the moisture pressed out, make a little brown roux, moisten it with stock ; put to it a little ham, trim- mings of veal, a seasoned bunch of sweet herbs, carrot, and onions ; when done, strain it through a sieve, and then finish it by adding the mushrooms. Mushrooms (Ragout of) White.—Pick and cut off the stalks of the mushrooms near to the head, wash them in several waters, and then put them into a saucepan, with some water and lemon juice. Drain, mince them very small, and press them closely in a cloth. As soon as all their moisture is extracted, replace them in a saucepan, with butter and lemon juice, and when the former begins to oil, add equal quantities of veloutd and consommd ; reduce, and season it with pepper. Thicken it with yolks of eggs, cream, and butter ; skim off the fat and serve. Mushroom Salad.—Cut your mushrooms into dice, which put into a saficepan, with oil, and a slice or two of peeled lemon ; simmer a short time, then drain, and let them cool; when quite cool, put them into a salad dish, with chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; prepare them like other salads, with oil and vinegar. Mushroom Sauce.*—Cut some mush- rooms into pieces, press them in a cloth, and then mince them ; do them up in a little melted butter, then add some good stock, parsley, scallions, and two cloves of garlic; skim, and cook them over a mo- derate fire for half an hour; strain, tako off the fat, and serve it very hot. Mushroom Sauce ii l’ Espagnole,•—Put two ladiesful of brown consommd into a stewpan, with two ladiesful of sauce tournde, and some mushrooms; reduce it over the fire to the thickness of the sauce you put in, then stir in a piece of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a very small quantity of Cayenne pepper. Mushrooms, Stewed.*—Peel some largo 2 a i