up ; let them be in the hot stove one day, and you will find they will be all curled, and then they are done. Lemon Water.—Put two thin slices of thinly-pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close for two hours. Lemon Water Ice.—To a pint of lemon juice, put a pint of water, half a gill of brandy, sweeten it with clarified sugar, and freeze it. Lemon ( White) Conserve.—Boil a pound of the finest sugar, take it off the fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one lemon at different times, stirring continually; it will make the sugar as white as milk if properly done; take care not to drop any of die seeds into it; work it well together, and when it is of an equal substance (which prove in the same manner as any other jelly), pour it into a mould. Lemon con- serve is made in the same manner, only that the sugar must he boiled to a greater height than for white lemon conserve. LENTILS*—Choose them large and white, and, after having washed and picked them, boil in water ; when done, fricassee them like white kidney-beans. There is a small sort of lentil which is not muGh used to fricassee, but is the best to make cullis, both from the colour being finer, and the flavour better. Lentil Cullis.—Slake ameat gravy with real, ham, onions, parsley, scallions, two cloves, and some winter savory; set these on the fire, and when the meat catches, add some stock, and simmer till done. Boil the lentils in stock, pound and rub them through a sieve into the stewpan with the meat; give the whole one boil; then take out the meat, and strain the cullis, which must not be too thick. Lentils ( Fricasseed).*—Slake aliglitVoiiT, in which put some sweet herbs, or onions cut in dice ; give them a few turns in the roux; to which add a little stock, or water; when well mixed, put in the lentils with salt and pepper. Serve them hot. Lentils a la Maitre d’Hotel.* —,Blanch and drain your lentils, put them into a pan with a good bit of butter, shred parsley and scallions, salt, and pepper ; fry them lightly, and serve them very hot. Lentils a la Maitre d'Hotel*—Boil some lentils in salt and water; then drain them, and put them into a saucepan, with a largo piece of butter; shred parsley, some salt, and pepper; toss them in a stewpnn, and serve them hot. Garnish with crusts of s bread round. Lentils ( Puree of).*—Take two pints of I lentils, and do them in the same manner as J dry peas; when done, take out the vege- ,1 tables, bacon, and beef; strain the lentils, I and put them into a stewpan, with three or t I four ladiesful of espagnole. This puree re- I quires more liquid than the peas, as it ii will take a longer time to colour; skim it y well, and be careful not to make it too : tj thick. When properly reduced, put it into ! another saucepan, and set it by till wanted. . LETTUCES a VEspagnole. * — Wash . j some lettuce hearts; boil them about : twenty minutes in plenty of water with 11 salt in it; then press out all the water; ; j put pepper and salt inside the lettuces, ,; and tie them up. Lay slices of veal and i bacon, two carrots cut in pieces, three i onions, two cloves, and a bay leaf; put in i the lettuces, with bacon overthem ; moisten . I with stock and the remains of broth ; when j they have simmered an hour, put the let- | tuces in a cloth, press out all the moisture, . untie and glaze them. Dish them en i couronne with croutons, nearly the same I size. Serve an espagnole sauce under them, j Lettuces (Fried). *—Choose your let- | tuces small and round; trim and tie them up, put them into a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrots, onions, salt, pepper, nut- I meg, a bunch of sweet herbs, and stock; braise them in this till nearly done ; take them out, press them in a cloth; when | cold, dip them in hatter and fry them. Lettuces (Garhure of).* — Put about thirty lettuces into boiling water, and l blanch them for half an hour; then let them cool ; press out all the water, tie them up, line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon ; lay the lettuces on this, with two or three carrots, three onions, and two cloves ; cover them with bacon, pour in some good stock, and simmer them an hour and a half; then drain the lettuces, cut them in slices, longwise. Put, alter- nately, layers of bread crumbs and lettuces, until all the latter are used ; pour the sauce over them (having strained it) ; set the dish over the fire,'and simmer the whole for some time. Put scarcely any salt to this garbure, but strew pepper between each layer. Lettuces (Garniture of).*—Take several fine lettuces, pick off the green leaves, wash them well in cold water; and having blanched them in boiling, throw them again into cold water; drain, press, and tie them up. Put the lettuces into a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, salt, pepper,