PIN 430 PIS lemons (also strained), and two ounces of clarified isinglass. Pour some of this jelly into a mould, cut tlie pine into small pieces, arrange them on it, and when set, pour on more jelly, then more pieces and more jelly, and so on till the mould is full. Pine Apple Jelly.—Put a pound of cla- rified sugar, boiled to the smooth degree, and nearly a pint of cold water, together on the fire; take a good ripe pine, pare off the rind, cut it into four quarters, and trim each quarter into round and long pieces; as soon as the sugar begins to boil, and has been skimmed, put in the pine ; when it has boiled about ten mi- nutes, take out the round pieces, lay them on a plate, and let the other pieces remain to boil twenty minutes longer. Take the rind off three lemons, squeeze the juice through a silk sieve into a basin, and when the pine has boiled enough, pour the liquor through a sieve to it, with two ounces of clarified isinglass. Put a little jelly into the mould first, then cut the pieces of pine into small round bits ; when that is set put more jelly, then more pine, and so continue till the mould is full. Pine Apple transparent Jelly*—Take a fine ripe, but perfectly sound, pine-apple, cut it into small pieces, which throw into boiling syrup ; when the fruit has had a few boils, take it from the fire ; and as soon as it becomes cool, strain it; add a sufficient quantity of caramel to give it a yellow tinge, then the juice of two le- mons, the isinglass, and finish as usual. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.') Pine Apple (Green) Preserved.—Choose a good-shaped pine, and having let it soak five or six days in salt and water, put it into a saucepan, with vine-leaves over and under it; fill the saucepan with salt and water, and let it stand on a slow fire till the fruit becomes green, then put it into a jar, and cover it with a thin cool syrup. The next day drain off the syrup, give it a boil, and then pour it over the pine-apple again with great care ; leave it thus for two months, after which make a rich syrup with two or three pounds of sugar ; add a little ginger, boil and skim it well, and when nearly cold, pour it over tho pine, previously drained ; tie the jar over tight, to exclude the air. PIN KS ( FrontageIlavorois).* 1 ake two ounces of pink flowers (the small red, sweet-scented ones), throw them into half a pound of clarified sugar (boiling), with ten cloves (bruised), and a pinch of cochi- neal ; cover the infusion, and before it is quite cold, strain, and add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass; stir and ice it as usual ; put the cream to it when it begins to thicken, and finish as directed. (See Promage Bavarois.) i Pinks (llatafa of).*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, a quart of clear river water, three pounds of sugar, two pounds of red pink flowers, and a drachm of cloves. Remove all the inferior parts of the flowers, and infuse the rest with the cloves in the brandy for two months, when strain it through a linen cloth ; dissolve the sugar in the water, then mix it with the brandy; filter and bottle it. PIPER (Baked).*—The fish, when thoroughly emptied and cleansed, is stuffed with the same ingredients, and dressed like baked jack or pike. Pipers (to dress).—They may be baked or boiled with a pudding well seasoned inside. If they are baked, a large cupful of rich broth should be put into the dish, and when done, take the broth, some es- sence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them together for sauce. Piper (Fillets of) a la Sejton.—Taka the flesh from a large piper, and cut into slices, all the same shape ; put these into a pan with clarified butter, pepper, and salt; fry them lightly, aud, when done, serve them. Make a sauce as follows: Put four spoonsful of the best vinegar, a small quantity of tarragon, and twenty peppercorns, into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and let it stand till reduced to a fourth ; then add two spoonsful of con- somme, six of sauce tournee, and reduce these also over a large fire ; strain and replace it; when it boils putin the yolks of two eggs, a bit of butter, and stir it well; pour this over tho fillets of piper when sent to table. This sauce must be quite white ; but if, by any chance, it should be browned, add a small quantity of cream. Season with salt and Cavenne. PISTACHIO Blancmange.* — Blanch four ounces of pistachios, pound them with half an ounce of preserved cedrat, dilute the paste with a glass of water, and then extract the milk by squeezing it reiy tight in a napkin ; mix with the milk six ounces of powder-sugar, and an ounceof isinglass. Take a pound of sweet almonds, pound them to a fine paste, which dilute with three glasses of water, extract the milk as above ; divide this into two parts, putting to one part the pistachio milk, an a small quantity of spinach essence ; an