212 CUR CUR your taste ; then strain it through a fine sieve, and serve. Strawberries or raspberries may be done in the same way. It is best to sweeten the fruit before you put in the cream, which should be almost cold before the fruit is put to it, else the cream is liable to curdle. CURRANT (Black) Drops.— Procure half a sieve of black currants, and put them in a pan ; mash them well with a spatula, and put them over the fire; let them just boil, and pass them through a sieve, over an earthen pan ; put what jelly comes from them into an earthen pipkin, put it on the fire, and let it boil for two hours : keep stirring it all the time with youi spatula, or it will burn ; put in two pounds and a half of powdered sugar, mix it with the jam, and stir it over the fire for half an hour, drop it on pewter sheets or plates, in little drops, from your knife, and put them into a hot stove until you find that they are quite dry, then take them off with u knife. Currants (Fromage BavaroisoJ lied).— Take the seeds from a pound of very sweet red currants, and a quarter oi a pound ot raspberries; press them through a fine sieve; mix with the juice half a pound of fine sugar, and six drachms of isinglass. Having put it in the pan with ice, when it begins to set, stir it in a plate of whip- ped cream, and finish as directed. See Fromage Bavarois. Currants (to Ice).-Take fresh currants in bunches, and have ready the white of an ego-, well beaten to froth, dip them m, lay them abroad, sift double-refined sugar pretty thick over them, and let them dry in a stove or oven. Currant Ices.—Boil two pounds of red currants a moment with a quarter of a pound of raspberries; rub them through a sieve, adding a pint of water, and then the sugar, which must be very well dissolved ^Currant'ices.—Pick some currants from their stalks, and squeeze them through “ sieve; then take clarified sugar, boil it to a very high degree; add it to your currant juice, and, if you choose, squeeze in the juice of four lemons, it will make it more mellow; strain them through the sieve a second time, put them in the icing-pot, and finish the same as all other ices. Currant Ice Cmim.-Take one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it X a basin, with half . & £ ^ squeeze in one lemon and a half, add pint of cream and a little cochineal, then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it ac- cording to custom. Currant (Fresh) Ice Cream.—Take one pint of currants, pass them through a sieve, with five ounces of powdered sugar, and a pint of cream, then freeze it according to custom. Currant Water Ice. — Take a large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a basin, and add to it the juice of two lemons, half a gill of syrup, and a pint of water ; then freeze it rich. Currant (Fresh) Water Ice.—lake a pint of currants, pass them through a sieve; then add to them four ounces of powdered sugar, and one pint of water; strain it, and freeze it rich. Currant (Black) Ice Cream.—Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, add to it the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Currant (Black) Water Ice.—Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, put it into a basin, add the juice of two lemons, a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water; strain it, and freeze it rich. Currant Jam (Black). — Gather your currants on a dry day, when they are full ripe, pick them from the stalks, wash them well in a basin, and to every pound of cur- rants put a pound of double-refined sugar, beaten and sifted; put them into a pre- serving-pan, boil them half an hour, skim, and keep them stirring all the time; then put them into pots : when cold, put brandy paper over, and tie white paper over all. Currant Jelly.—Set on the fire in a sugar-pan a pint of smooth clarified sugar ; when it boils, put in a quart of picked red currants, in which let them boil for half an hour; be careful to skim them well, and at times add a little cold water to raise the scum; when boiled enough, run the liquor through a sieve into a basin, in which you have squeezed three lemons, then put in some isinglass, and set your jelly in a mould in ice as usual. Currant Jelly.*—For this purpose the ripest red currants should be taken, as the white are not so good for jelly; crush them, and press out all the juice into a glazed pan; cover it very closely, and set in a cold place for six days; then wi "Teat care remove the thick skin " then covers the juice, and pour it into an- other vessel, throwing away what remains at the bottom: when the juice is perfectly clear, weigh it, and for each pound take