PLO 433 PLA 2 F I quarters of an incli apart, and put tliem i in the oven. Pistachio Petits Pots* — Have ready ten small moulds ; take a sufficient quan- tity of cream to fill them, and put it into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; give it a hoil, and then ; having blanched and pounded a quarter of a pound of pistachios to a fine paste, pour the cream on it, hoil them together once, and let them get cold. Put four yolks and one whole egg into a saucepan, put the cold cream to it, mix them to- gether, and when it has boiled once, pour it into the moulds, which place in the bain-marie to set. Pistachios Souffle (Fran^aise of').*— Take half a pound of pistachios, two ounces of preserved cedrat, and two drachms of bitter almonds blanched; pound these well; infuse them in nine glasses of boiling milk for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then strain it through a napkin into the usual preparation. Just before the whites of eggs are put in, add to the whole a sufficient quantity of spinach essence, to tinge it of a delicate green: finish as usual. (See Souffles Francaise). Glaze with powder sugar only. Pistachio Tourte*—Mix the yolks of four eggs with some rice flower, dried orange flowers chopped, cream and sugar: set these on the fire, stirring constantly ; in half an hour take it off, add four ounces of pounded pistachios, and a little pre- served lemon peel; put this preparation into a raised rich puff paste, and lay over it a kind of trellis work, or any other kind of ornament with paste, and colour it lightly in the oven. Pistachio Wafers.* — Dilute half a pound of brioche paste with half a glass of Madeira wine, and then stir into it three ounces of powder sugar, and two ounces of dry currants : spread this pre- ' paration over a well buttered tin to the thickness of half an inch, and put it in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour ; when done, cut it in pieces two inches square ; I glaze, and cover them lightly witli minced | pistachios. PLAICE [an excellent way to dress a 1 large one.)—Sprinkle it well with salt, and I keep it for four-and-twenty hours ; then ' wash it, and wipe it dry, do it over with egg, and then with bread crumbs; then make boiling hot some lard, lay in the fish, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley and anchovy sauce. You may, if you choose, previously dip the fish in vinegar. Plaice with Dutch Sauce.—Prepare the plaice in exactly the same manner as soles, with mushrooms; when well drained from the liquor, lay them on a dish, and pour over them a Dutch sauce. Plaice a l Espagnole.—-Prepare it the same as for Dutch sauce, only, instead of pouring over it a Dutch sauce, it must be a good strong sauce a I’espagnole, with more lemon juice than usual; a few mushrooms added would be a great im- provement. PLOVERS (to choose).—Choose them by the hardness of the vent, which shows that they are fat; and when new, they are limber looted. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowls. There are three sorts; the grey, green, and bastard plover or lapwing. Plovers (Boiled).—They should be boiled in a good celery sauce, white or brown ; or they may be roasted like any other fowl, with good gravy in the dish. Plovers (Capilotade of).*—Take three or four cold roasted plovers, cut them in halves, skin and trim them ; put them into a stewpan, with some Italianne, a glass of white wine, and seasoning to the palate. Set them on the fire, and when they have simmered an hour, dish them, with slices of fried bread between. Skim the liquor, add the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the birds. Plovers (to dress). — Green plovers should be dressed the same as woodcocks, without drawing, and served on a toast. Grey plovers should be stewed.—Make a foicemeat with the yolks of two hard Gg’g’s bruised, some marrow cut fine, artichoke bottoms cut small, and sweet herbs, sea- soned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg: stuff the birds, and put them into a sauce- pan, with just a sufficient quantity of good gravy to cover them, one glass of white wine, and a blade of mace; cover them close, and let them stew very gently till they are tender ; then take up the plovers, lay tliem in a dish, keep them hot; put a piece of butter rolled in flour to thicken the sauce, let it boil till smooth ; squeeze into it a little lemon ; skim it, and pour it over the plovers. Plovers an Gratia*—Pick, clean, and singe four plovers; make a farce with their intestines (except the gizzard), minced, and mixed with half the quantity of grated bacon, a little shred parsley and shalots, salt and pepper, fill the plovers with this ;