CAR CAR 127 nutmeg; moisten it with equal quantities of bouillon and red wine, put your carp into this seasoning, and stew it over a good lire. When it is done, serve your carp upon a dish, with toasted bread under it, and pour the sauce over the whole. Carp stewed.*—Bleed them in the tail, wash them clean, put them in a stewpan, with a pint of claret, a pint of gravy, with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, two anchovies, an onion stuck with cloves, some lemon peel, some horseraddisli sliced, nutmeg sliced, and some whole pepper tied in a cloth, when the carp is sufficiently done, strain off the mace ; then put in a little lemon juice; thicken the sauce with burnt butter. Carp stewed with Wine.—Take a carp ; being well cleaned, crimp it two or three times, set it in a stewpan with some good consomme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay leaf, and a few peppercorns; let it stew gently between two fires till well done, then take it out, lay it on a dish ; the liquor must stew with three spoons- ful of sauce tournee, till tolerably thick ; if not quite smooth, squeeze it through a tammy ; put in the juice of a lemon, with a very little Cayenne pepper, and pour it over the fish, which must be garnished with veal forcemeat. Carp Tongues (Ragout of).*—Blanch carp tongues in water, with a little salt and vinegar; drain them well; have ready two spoonsful of allemande, and the same of veloute, and boil it up ; add to it, by degrees, a pound of butter ; put in the tongues, and finish it with lemon juice. Carp Roes in Aspic*—Prepare an aspic, as directed for cock’s combs in aspic, and fill it with carp roes, boiled and well sea- soned. Carp Rues d la Bellevue.—Scald the roes in warm water, and prepare a stew- pan with thin slices of bacon, and one slice of ham ; add to this a scalded sweetbread, a fagot of sweet herbs, onions cut into hoops pretty thick, a glass of white wine, whole pepper, and a little salt (or none, if the ham is not very fresh) ; when the sweetbread is almost braised enough, put tjie roes to it, a little broth, and about two dozen of crayfish tails picked; simmer together about a quarter of an hour, then put. the sweetbread into the middle of the dish, with two or three of the onion rings upon it, which you baste with whites of ogga to make them stick the better; fill them with crayfish spawn boiled a mo- tuent iu a good cullis, and the jroes and cray- fish tails round separately ; add some good rich cullis to the sauce, make it pretty thick, strain it in a sieve, and pour it upon the roes .only. Carp Roes (Caisses of).*—Blanch well- washed carp roes; drain them ; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, champignons, parsley, shalots (all chopped small), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice ; do these lightly over tjie fire, taking care not to let them take colour ; add the carp roes to them, and let them simmer a minute. Make a caisse of paper, at the bottom of which lay crumbs ; oil the caisse well and put it on the gridiron over hot ashes ; place the roes on them, and broil them thus. .When done, take them from the caisse, and dish them. Carp Roes, Dutch Fashion.—Boil a dozen of small white onions, scalded in half a pint of white wine, a fagot of sweet herbs, a good bit of butter, pepper, and salt; when three parts done, put scalded carp roes into it, and finish the boiling (they require no longer than time enough to finish the onions very tender) ; reduce the sauce pretty thick ; put the roes into the middle of the dish, and the onions round; mix a little spinach juice with the sauce, to give it a pale green colour, or a strong green if you think proper. Serve the sauce upon the onions only, or in the bottom of the dish, and the rest upon it; garnish it round with fried bread. Carp roes are also dressed as a chicken fricassee, with mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, and white liaison sauce. Carp Roes, English Fashion.—Boil scalded roes about a quarter of an hour in some good jelly broth, seasoned with pepper and salt; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, simmer it a moment without boiling; add a lemon squeeze, and let the sauce be of a mid- dling consistence, neither very thick, nor clear and thin. A la Bechamelle, done with Bechamel sauce; scald them first, and simmer them awhile in it. Carp Rues fricasseed.—Put into a stew- pan a little butter, a dozen small mush- rooms, a slice of ham, the squeeze of a lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Stew it a little time on a slow fire, then add a little flour, and as many carp roes as you think proper, with a little good broth; stew them about a quarter of an hour, and season them with pepper and salt, when you put in the broth. When all is ready, thicken it with the yolks of two or three