FON 256 FOR it; when it begins to curdle, put it through a sieve, set the liquor again on the fire ; repeat this, passing it through the sieve so long as it curdles ; then boil it for twenty minutes ; put it into cups first dipped in water. If the water stands upon the oatmeal fourteen or twenty days, according to the weather, so that it only turns sour, not mouldy, the better the flummery will he. Flummery (to make a Temple in).—Di- vide a quart of stiff flummery into three parts, colour one part pink with a little bruised cochineal, steeped in French brandy. Scrape an ounce of chocolate, dissolve it in a little strong coffee, and mix it with another part of the flummery, which will make it a stone colour, and have the last part white; then wet the temple mould, and fit it in a pot to make it stand even. Fill the bottom of the temple with pink flummery for the steps, the four points with white, and fill the rest up with the chocolate flummery, and let it stand till the next day; then loosen it very gently from the mould, and turn it out. Stick sprigs of flowers from the top of every point, which will strengthen it ,and give it a neat appearance. Lay round it rock candy sweetmeats for garnish. Flummery (Welsh).—Put a little isin- glass to a quart of stiff hartshorn jelly ; add to it a pint of cream, a little brandy, and some lemon juice and sugar; boil this till it is thick, then strain it; you may add, if you choose, three ounces of almonds, blanched and pounded; and about ten hitter ones. FONDUES.—Put some grated Parme- san cheese into a basin, with pepper and a little melted butter, and the yolks of eggs ; stir them together ; whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, ancl add them a little at a time, to the cheese, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon ; half fill as many paper cases as you can, and hake them, like biscuits, in a moderate oven. Serve them as quickly as possible after they are done. Another iray.—Make a white roux with about a quarter of a pound of butter and flour; add half a pint of boiling milk ; stir till quite stiff over the fire, then add the yolks of about seven eggs ; stir them in quickly and then mix about halt a pound of good Parmesan cheese grated, a little mixed mustard, salt, and Cayenne, and a little chopped parsley ; put them into a marble mortar and pound them well. When cold, add the whites of seven eggs lightly to it, when heat to a strong froth. Put into paper cases, and hake in a quick oven. Send immediately to table when done, or they are good for nothing. FORCEMEAT (Ingredients for).— Forcemeat shouldbe made sufficient!}- con- ; sistent’to cut with a knife, but not dry or heavy. No one flavour should predomi- nate greatly ; according to what it is wanted for, a selection may be made from the following list, being careful to use the least of those articles which are the most-’ pungent: Cold fowl, or veal, scraped ham, fat bacon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, , white pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolks and whites of eggs, well beaten, to bind the mixture. The forcemeat may he made with any of these articles without any striking flavour; :j therefore any of the following different in- -! gredients may he made use of to vary the taste : Oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory; ! pennyroyal, knotted maijoram, thyme, , basil, yolks of hard eggs, Cayenne, garlic, . shalots. chives, Jamaica pepper, in fmer| powder, or two or three cloves. To force or stuff turkeys, geese, ducks, . &c. see under the heads of the different t ways of dressing turkeys, geese, &c. Forcemeat.—Take an equal quantity of lean veal scraped, and beef suet shred; :) heat them in a marble mortar ; add pepper, ,j salt, cloves, pounded lemon peel, and nut- - meg grated, parsley and sweet herbs, chopped fine, a little shalot and young : onion, a few bread crumbs grated fine, and ' yolk of egg sufficient to work it light; roll this into balls with a little flour ; if for white sauce, boil them ; if for brown sauce, fry them. Forcemeat Balls for Fish Soups, or Fish stewed.—Beat the flesh and soft parts of a : middling-sized lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table-spoonsful of bread crumbs, one spoonful of oyster | liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, two eggs beaten for a long time ; make into halls, and fry them of a nice brown colour in butter. Forcemeat (Collops of).*—Mince some meat, and put it on the fire with a slice o butter; a little parsley and green onions, shred fine; shake in a little flour an moisten with stock ; add pepper, and re duce to a thick sauce that will adhere the meat; then leave it to cool; then t