COR 191 COU pounds of sugar. Bruise your fruit, and haring strained off the juice, put it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring it till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, skim, and hoil it to casse ; take it from the fire while you put in the juice, then put it on again, and give it one boil, take it off, and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, when the conserve may be poured into moulds. Conserves (Hurd) in 'Moulds.*—These • are made in the same manner as other . conserves, except that they are composed of sugar, and distilled aromatic water; and may be coloured like pastils. CONSOMME.*—Take eight or ten pounds of beef steaks, old hens, four pounds of lean ham, and four knuckles of veal; put these into a large pot, draw ; down with a little broth to a fine glaze, and then fill it up with strong broth; skim it well, cooling it three or four times to make the scum rise, after which let it boil gently; put into the pot carrots, turnips, onions, and cloves. When your meat is sufficiently done, pass the liquor through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it may be very clear. No salt need be put in if strong broth be used. Consomme of Game*—Is made in the same manner as with poultry, substituting the backs, dec. of partridges or other game for the trimmings of fowls. Consomme of Poultry.*—Lay a few slices of ham and veal at the bottom of a stewpan, and on them the trimmings of P poultry, cover them with consommi, and let it stand over a slow fire till the meat is j quite wanned through; then add more ; consomme, mushrooms, parsley, and scal- £ lions, and then let the whole continue to j- boil till done. Strain it through a silk 1 sieve, and set it by for use. CORIANDER Dragees. — Take any | quantity of coriander seeds, put them in I the tossing-pan over the fire, and let them f vr‘lrm > when they are warm, throw in l about half a glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are dry ; have clarified sugar, f tvkicli boil in another pan ; then, when the 1 corianders are dry, add a little gum to , them, and do the same again till they are dry, and continue so doing till you see the corianders aro covered to the size you "ant to have them; when that is done, | take the corianders out from the pan, wash 1 them well, and put them in again, and stir them well till they are all warm; then take your clarified sugar which you have pre- viously boiled to the first degree; when is is done, put it in an instrument of copper, made on purpose for the operation, and at the bottom of which there is a little hole ; hang it up by a packthread string, that the sugar may fall from about a yard height into the pan where the corianders are ; while the sugar falls into your pan keep stirring well your dragees till you see they are well pearled over, or rouo-Ii and grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take them out, and place them in the stove to finish drying. Coriander Ices.—Bruise an ounce of coriander seed, infuse them about an hour in a pint of warm water, with half a pound of sugar, and sift through a 'napkin ; then finish like other ices. Coriander (Sugared).*—These seeds are sugared in the same manner as sugared almonds. Coriander Water. — Having cleared your coriander seeds from the husks, put a handful into a quart of water, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and set it by to infuse for two or three hours; then pour the liquor out of one pot into another- strain it, and keep it for use. GOUGrLAUFELE (German).*—Take three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of yeast, an ounce of fine salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, twelve eggs, the yolks of twelve more, two pounds of fresh butter, three glasses of milk, and a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds. Proceed with these materials in the following manner: Put the butter (haying slightly warmed half a pound of it), into a glazed pan, and with a large wooden spoon work it up for six or seven minutes; then put in two whole eggs, and stir it two minutes ; then add three yolks, and stir again two mi- nutes ; in this manner put in the whole number of eggs and yolks; which will produce a kind of smooth cream. Then by degrees mix in two pounds of the flour, dissolve the yeast in a pint of warm milk’ strain it through a napkin, stir this in well, with another half pound of flour; make a hollow in the paste, in which put the salt and sugar in powder; afterwards pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the whole together with the remainder of the flour; continue to work it up for somo minutes after the whole ingredients are put in, adding a small quantity of warm milk, which will render it smooth. Have a mould ready, butter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each cut in half, over the bottom ot the mould, in forms, on which pour the paste carefully, and in small quantities, so as not to derange the almonds. Placo