493 TOU TOU ing pickle: Four gallons of water, four pounds of common salt, the same of bay salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, two ounces of saltprunella, one ounce of allum, and a pound of coarse sugar; boil these together, skimming it well. Lay in the tongue, let it remain ten days, turning it two or three times in that period. Dry the tongue by a wood fire. Tongue (Potted).—Do it as for pick- ling ; when it has laid its proper time, cut off the root, boil it until it will peel; then season it with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all beat fine; rub the seasoning well in while it is hot, put it into a pan, pour melted butter over it, and send it to the oven; an hour is suffi- cient to bake it; when done, let it stand to cool, rub a little more spice over it, and lay it in the pot it is to be kept in; when the butter it was baked in is cold, take it from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over the tongue; if there is not sufficient to cover it, more must be added ; the butter must be an inch higher than the tongue. Tongue (Stewed).—Let it simmer for two hours in just sufficient quantity of water to cover it; then peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with some pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied in a bit of muslin ; a few capers, turnips cut in very small pieces, and carrots sliced ; half a pint of beef gravy, a little white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let it stew very gently until tender, then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Tongue and Udder roasted. — Parboil the tongue and udder, stick in them ten or twelve cloves, roast them, and baste with red wine, and froth them nicely with a bit of butter. Serve with gravy and sweet sauce. The udder eats well boiled with the tongue. Tongue and Udder stuffed with Force- meat and roasted.—Boil the tongue and udder until tender, peel the tongue, stick it with a few cloves, raise the udder, wash the inside with the yolk of egg, make a good forcemeat of veal, and fill it; tie the ends close together, and roast them ; baste them with red wine and butter. Serve with good gravy, and currant jelly. (For other methods of dressing tongue, see Neat’s Tongue.) TOURTE d VAnglaise*—Take two ounces of stoned raisins, one ounce of cur- rants, some candied cedrats, cut into dice, mix these with some frangipane, a little beef marrow, dissolved, and a small quan- tity of Madeira wine, and proceed as di- rected. (See Tourte of Frangipane.) Tourte au Zephir.—Having rolled out some good puff paste in two pieces of the same thickness, put one on the other, cut out some pieces with a cutter the size of the patty-pans you intend baking in ; notch the edges, brush the tops over with egg, bake them ; they should be verv light; separate the top from the bottom piece, take out the soft part, put in your emincde of game, meat, or fish ; put on the covers or tops and serve hot. Tourte d’Entree.*—Make a paste as for timbales ; roll out a part of it a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it into two circular pieces, one of eight inches in diameter, and the other nine inches and a half. Take thirty-six or forty balls, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, of godiveau, half of which lay on the smaller piece of the paste, leavin'o- an inch all round ; on these place some scallops of sweetbreads, dressed in sweet herbs, champignons, and artichoke bottoms cut in pieces; then put the remainder of the balls, four crayfish, champignons, and artichoke bottoms. Place all these articles in the form of a dome, and put the larger piece of paste over the whole, turn the edge of the lower piece over the other, and press them together; take a band of puff paste, long enough to go round the bottom of the tourte, an inch and a quarter deep, and the same thickness as the abovemen- tioned layers ; fix this rouud the tourte, and pinch or mark it in proper form ; take the cuttings of the tourte paste, roll it into small bands, all the same length and size, and place them on the top of the dome, so as to make a kind of false top in the form of a rosette ; dorez this, put a piece of strong paper, buttered, round the band of puff paste, and place the tourte in a brisk oven, for an hour and a half. It should be looked at whilst baking, as it happens sometimes that too much air is enclosed in the tourte, which, by the heat of the oven, expands, and thereby spoils its appearance : in this case, when the crust begins to harden, make a hole at the top, with the head of a pin, the air can thus escape, and the shape of the tourte be preserved. When done, cut neatly a small piece out of the top, pour in some espagnole, put the piece on again, and serve. Tourte d’Entree au Chasseur.*—Take a small partridge, and a small snipe, cut each in half, two quails, six larks, the loins and legs of a wild rabbit, and four truffles, each