476 SME SME Skate (Fried). — The skate must be nicely crimped, then tossed in an egg, beaten up with pepper, and salt, then in crumbs of bread, laying them on paper as you do them ; have ready a stewpan nearly full of lard ; when very hot, put in two or three pieces at a time to fry quickly, and when thoroughly done, put them on paper to drain from the fat; serve them to table on a dish garnished with fried parsley, and serve shrimp sauce in a boat. SMELTS.—The smelt is considered an excellent fish when fresh, and have a smell similar to that of a newly-cut cucum- ber ; when good, the scales have a fine silvery hue, and the body is very stiff; when stale, it is flabby. Smelts (Atelets of J.*—Take the fillets from half a dozen smelts, take off the skin, cut each into four /pieces, and trim them; melt some butter, add to it the yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper; beat them up well, dip each fillet into this, and roll them; run a skewer through them, so as to prevent their unrolling; put four on each skewer, dip them again into the butter; have ready some bread crumbs, roll the fillets in this very lightly, but so as to cover them completely, and broil them over a clear fire ; take care that all four sides are well coloured. Smelts a la Bonne Eau.*—Clean, and scrape your smelts, nape them with a clean cloth, cut off their heads and tails, and put the fisli into a saucepan, with some parsley, two or three scallions, a bay leaf, water, salt, and pepper; boil them slowly for a few minutes, dish them; add to the liquor some more par- sley, boil it up once or twice, and pour it over the smelts. Smelts (Broiled).*—When the smelts are well cleaned, slit them down the sides, and lay them in oil, with salt and pepper, for a little while; then put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them ; when done, serve either with caper or tomata sauce. Smelts en Caissons.* — Make some paper cases as if for biscuits, into each of which put a little farce maigi-e, com- posed of butter, sweet herbs, small fish minced, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; lay the smelts on this, cover them with bread crumbs, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, serve with whatever sauce you like. Smelts (Fried).*—Scrape your fish, cut off the tails and fins, clean, and wasli them, then replace the livers ; slit them down the sides, flour, and fry them of a nice colour. Drain and sprinkle salt over them. Serve them on a napkin. Smelts are most generally used as a garnish for larger fish. Smelts (Gratin of).* — Prepare your fish as for frying, spread some butter over the bottom of a deep silver dish, on which shred parsley and scallions, and sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; place the smelts on this, cover them with bread crumbs, moisten with a little melted but- ter and white wine; set it on a stove, or in an oven ; brown the top, and serve. Smelts with Herbs*—Boil a bunch of sweet herbs, with some sliced onions, salt, pepper, half a spoonful of oil, and a quart of water; when the liquor is suffi- ciently flavoured, put in the smelts and boil them quickly. Smelts a I’ltalienne. * — Boil your smelts with a large glass of white wine, half a glass of water, two spoonsful of oil, two slices of lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennel. When sufficiently done, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and shred chervil, and serve your fish with its own sauce. Smelts (Pickled').—Wash, clean, and gut a quarter of aj hundred smelts, take half an ounce of nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of pepper, a quarter of a pound of common salt, all beaten very fine; lay the smelts in rows in a jar; be- tween every layer of smelts strew the seasoning, with some bay leaves; boil a sufficient quantity of red wine to cover them; pour it boiling hot over them, cover the jar with a plate; when cold, tie it down very close. Smelts (Pickled).—Draw out the in- sides all but the roes, put their tails into their mouths; boil them a few minutes in salt and water, vinegar, and peppercorns; take out the fish ; as soon as the pickle is cold, pour it over them. Smelts (Potted).—Draw out the inside, season them with salt, mace pounded, and pepper, lay them in a pan with butter on the top; bake them; when nearly cold, take them out, lav them upon a cloth; put them into pots, clear of! the butter from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over them. Smelts in Savory Jelly.—Lay a dozen well-cleaned smelts at the bottom of a stewpan, with half consomme and half Madeira, a little salt, a young onion, and two or three mushrooms ; let them stew