TOA THO 491 juice of half a lemon, and serve it to table very hot. Tench (to souse).—Having drawn the tench, clear away the slime, and cut oft' the gills ; put the fish into a kettle with some water, vinegar, bay leaves, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, pepper, and salt. When done, take off the loose scales, and lay the tench in a dish carefully; strain the liquor, add a little clarified isinglass to it, boil it a little while, then strain it again, and pour it over the fish. It must not be touched till quite cold. Tench stewed with Wine. — Let the tench be well cleansed, and crimped, then set it in a stewpan with some good con- somme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay leaf, and some peppercorns ; let it stew gently between two fires till well done; then take it out, lay it on a dish, then make the liquor tolerably thick, by stewing it with three spoonsful of sauce tournee ; if not perfectly smooth, squeeze it through a tammy, put in the juice, add a very little Cayenne pepper, and pour this sauce over the fish ; garnish with quenelles. Tench (Stuffed).—Cut off the tails and fins of your tench, split them down the back, take out the large bone, and fill the spaces with a farce, composed of carp, smelts, or any other fish; close the open- ing with flour, and fry them in butter. When about two thirds done, put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of good stock, sweet herbs, carp roes, pepper, and salt; finish dressing them over a gentle fire, let the sauce reduce, and serve them. Terrine de Nerac.*—Take four fine partridges, truss them with the legs' in- wards, and partly dress them. Make a farce of some . pieces, and livers of par- tridges, double the quantity of bacou, pound these well, season them with spices and sweet herbs (in powder), salt, pepper, and the trimmings of truffles ; have ready two pounds of truffles, picked and washed. Split the partridges down the back, sea- son and stuff them with the farce and truffles; put a layer of farce at the bottom of the tureen, put the partridges on it, fill the interstices with the truffles and farce, cover the whole with rashers of bacon and two bay leaves, put on the lid of the tureen, fasten it down with paste, and bake it for three hours. i HOIINHAt.K.—Let them hang at least one day before being dressed ; they may be served either boiled or fried, in bread crumbs, being first dipped in egg. THRUSHES.—These birds are dressed the same as woodcocks. TIMBALE.*—Put a pound of flour on the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into which pour a little water, three or four spoonsful of oil, a quarter of a pound oi butter, the yolks of two eggs, and a pinch of salt; knead these ingredients thoroughly into the flour, until it becomes a tolerably firm paste ; roll it out to nearly halt an inch in thickness, line one large or several small plain round moulds with this paste ; let the moulds be well but- tered, and the paste come about half an inch above the top of the mould ; fill your timbale with any farce or ragout you think proper, cover it with a layer of paste, pressing the edges together; bake it, and when done, turn the timbale on a dish, make a hole, pour in some rich sauce or gravy, and serve. 1 OASTS with Butter*—Spread butter over some slices of fried bread ; lay on them sweet herbs, tossed up in melted butter, and serve. I oasts (Genoa).—Lard fi French roll with partly anchovies, and partly ham; cut the roll into slices, lay on each a thin slice of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry them ; drain, and serve with ravigote. 1 oasts a la Grenade*—Cut some fat and lean bacon into dice, give them a few turns over the fire with parsley, scallions, shalots, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three eggs ; stir it frequently till it forms a kind of forcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, cut of an equal thickness, and fry them. Toasts a l’Italienne.*—Cut some slices of bread, about half an inch in thickness, fry them in sweet oil, let it be dry and crisp; lay them on a dish, and spread o\ er them any light good farce you may think proper; pour over them an appro- priate sauce, and serve them. 1 oasts a l’Italienne.*—Pound the white meat of a fowl, with some Parmesan cheese and dry currants, mix with these ingredi- ents the yolks of eggs in due proportions ; roll them into fingers with flour, until they cease to adhere to your hand, fry them in boiling lard, and serve with either salt or sugar. Toast a la Minime.—Cut some slices of bread half an inch thick, and divide them into slips, fry them in a little oil, and when of a nice colour, lay them on a dish, with fillets of anchovies; put shalots, parsley, garlic, a bay leaf, thyme (all shred small), whole pepper, and a little