79 bue BRE over it, strew currants on them, then lay tlie broad and butter, strew currants, and so on till the dish is full. Beat up four eggs with a pint of milk, a little salt, nutmeg, and sugar, and pour over the pudding. Lay a puff- paste round, and bake it; half an hour will be sufficient' Bread (common) Cake.—Take the quan- tity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lis- bon sugar, and eight of currants. Warm tlie butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. ’ Bake in a cake-tin. Bread (Diet) Cake.—Break nine eggs, separate the yolks and whites, take their weight in sifted sugar. Whisk the whites to a firm froth, add the yolks, well beaten, and then whisk them together; put the sugar and the weight of five eggs of flour and a few caraway seeds. Mix all well together, and bake in a hoop. Bread Cheesecakes.—Slice a large French roll very thin, pour on it some boilin°- cream ; when cold, add six or eight eggs, half a pound of butter melted, some nut- meg, a spoonful of brandy, a little sugar, and half a pound of currants. Put them in puff paste as other cheesecakes. Bread, to serve with Coffee.*■—Whip up the whites of ten eggs to a thick snow; add to them the yolks beaten with eight ounces of powder sugar, place it over a charcoal fire, and whip it for half an hour; then take it from the fire, and whip it again until cold. Mix in eight ounces of sifted flour. Have ready buttered two moulds lined with paper, pour the paste into them, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when done, take them out of the moulds and remove the paper; when cold, cut them in slices about the size of a finger. Place them on a plate of copper, over a charcoal fire, and when one side is brown, turn them and brown the other side.— these, if kept dry, will he good for a long time. ° Bread (rich) to. serve with Co fee.*—. Make your paste as abover but when you have mixed in your flour, add to it the I rmd of two lemons grated ; candiod lemon | and orange peel, of each two ounces chop- > at*1 them in with a wooden spoon, and finish as above. Bread Crumbs fried.—Rub bread that has been baked two days, through an iron sieve or cullender; put thorn into a stew- pan with two ounces of butter; place it over a moderate fire, and stir them with a ooden spoon till of a fine gold colour; spread them on a sieve, and let them stand ten minutes to drain, turning them often. Bread (French).—Lay half a bushel of the best Hertfordshire white flour at one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Mix a pint of good small- beer yeast with three quarts of warm wa- ter ; put it in, and mix it up well till it is tough, put a flannel over it, and let it rise as high as it will, watching carefully that it does not fall. When it is at its height, take six quarts of skimmed milk, blood- warm, the bluer the better, provided it be sweet, and one pound of salt. Be careful not to put any milk with the yeast at first, for that will prevent the yeast from rising, as any greasy substance will have that effect. Then, instead of working it with the hands, as is done with dough for Eng- lish bread, put the ends of your fingers to- gether, and work it over your hands until it is quite weak and ropy, and then cover it over with flannel. Put the fire into the oven, and make it very hot, by which time the dough will be ready. Lap the dough on the dresser, and instead of a common knife, have one made like a clioppino-- knife to cut it with. Then make it up into rolls or bricks at pleasure. The bricks (of the common size) will require an hour and a half to bake, the rolls only half an hour. Draw them out, and either rasp them with a rasp, or chip them with a knife. Some persons break in two ounces of but- ter, when working up with the second liquor. Bread (French).*—Take half a bushel (or six pounds) of flour, put it on the slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put two ounces of yeast; make your dough with warm water, to about the consistence of brioche; work it up well, adding two ounces of salt, dissolved in a little°warm water; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise ; on this part of the operation de- pends the quality of the bread. Having left the dough one or two hours, (accord- ing to the season), knead it again, and leave it as before, for two hours. Iu tlie mean while, heat the oven, divide the dough into eight equal parts, of which lorm as many loaves, into any shape you please; put them into the oven ns quickly ns possible. As soon as they are done, rub the crusts with a little butter, which will givo it a fine yellow colour. Bread (French), or Rolls.*—Take half n bushel or six pounds of sifted flour, knead it into dough, with two quarts of