IIAR 295 HAR of bacon, put in the hare, &c.; cover it with bacon, and bake it in a moderate oven: when cold, turn it out, place it on a dish, and put over it a jelly made as follows : Take a pound and a half of scrag of veal, a slice of ham, two or three cloves, sweet herbs, a carrot or two, shalots, two bay leaves, an ounce of isinglass; stew these in some beef broth till reduced to a jelly ; add some lemon juice ; strain firstthrough a sieve, and then through a jelly bag; when cold, pour it over the cake, and serve. Hare au Chevreuil.*—Take a fine hare, skin, and cut off the head and shoulders ; beatit flat, and carefully cut the skin from the back and most prominent parts of the rump, which places lard with small pieces of fat bacon, previously soaked in vinegar and water, with carrots, onions, parsley, bay leaf, garlic, whole pepper, and salt; I let the hare lay in this for two days, then spit it; baste it well while roasting. When done, place it on a dish, and set it in the oven while you glaze the larded parts : reduce two spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and five or six spoonsful of plain | sauce ; when it boils, mix in a little glaze, a piece of butter, and the juice of half a j lemon ; pour this sauce round the hare and serve it. Hare en Civet*—Make a roux, in which put rather more butter than usual; when about three parts done, put in some pieces of streaked bacon, give them a few turns, and then add the hare cut in pieces; and when they have been in a little while, | pour on them a bottle of white or red wine, or a glass of vinegar, some stock or water, a small quantity only of salt (as the bacon I ought to give it a little saltness), pepper, 1 two bay leaves, parsley and scallions, and 1 mushrooms: take care that your meat floats I in the liquor; set it over a large fire, that I it may reduce quickly to three quarters of I its original quantity. Have ready some I small onions peeled, and lightly fried in a 1 little butter; put them into the civet when ! nearly done. In about twenty or five and twenty minutes take it off, and keep I it warm in hot ashes, till it is wanted for : table. Hare en braise.*—Put a boned hare into a braising pan, with salt, pepper, carrots, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, equal quantities of broth and white wine, the bones of the hare, half a knuckle of veal, and thin slices of bacon (having lined the pan previously with the same), braise it over a small fire for an hour and a half; then take it out, strain the liquor, reduce and serve it over tho haie. This dish may also be served cold, with jelly. Hare a la St. Denis.*—Having skinned and otherwise prepared the hare, cut off the head ; season some lardnns to lard the loins and legs, and lay it for two or three days in a pan, with salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, scallions, and two onions, cut in slices. When ready for dressing, take the liver, mince it with an equal quan- tity of bacon, add salt, pepper, and a little pounded spice ; to this put twice as much quenelle farce ; mix them together with the yolks of three eggs ; stuff the body of the hare with it, and sew up the skin. Lay slices of bacon in the braising-pan, place the hare on them, and cover with bacon; put round it some slices of veal, two car- rots cut in slices, three onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, a little salt, and a bottle of white wine; simmer these for two hours, or more, according to the age of the hare. When done, drain and glaze it, then re- duce the liquor to a jelly; add to it two ladiesful of espagnole and a little lemon juice ; put this sauce in a dish, and serve the hare on it. Hare’s Ears.—Take as many pair of ears as your dish will contain; scald them, well, and braise them till tender; add a glass of wine, and a slice or two of lemon; when done, take them out, dip them in a thick batter, and fry them. Serve with any relishing sauce. Hare (Fillets of*), with Anchovies.—Cut the fillets from one or two hares, and lard them with anchovies (soaked in water and in slips forthe purpose) ; simmer the fillets between two dishes for about half an hour, with butter, pepper, and half a dozen shal- lots ; when done, place them on a dish, but keep it hot. Put to the shalots a little cullis, a table-spoonful of verjuice, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; keep this on the fire till tolerably thick; pour this sauce over the fillets, and serve them. Hare (Filleisof), larded*—When your hare is skinned, run your knife along the back-bone, from the wing to the leg, and remove the fillet, and lard it with bacon, and form it according to your taste. Put somo slices of bacon into a saucepan, also some slices of onions and carrots, a little thyme and bay-leaf; lay the fillets on this, add a little consomme, and stew them about three quarters of an hour ; having covered them with buttered paper, close the stew- pan and put firo on the lid. When done.