CAL CAIC 104 Cakes (Shrewsbury).—Take a pound of butter, and put it in a little flat pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream, then take one pound of powdered sugar, a little cinna- mon and mace pounded, and four eggs, yolks and whites together ; beat them with your hand till it is very light; then take one pound and a half of sifted flour, work it together, and roll it on your dresser, to what size you like, only very flat, let your oven be rather slow, and let them change their colour, then take them out. Cakes (small).—Rub well together half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, and three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, then wet it with a gill of boil- ing milk, strew in a few caraway seeds, and let it lie till the next day; when moulded, and cut into six score pieces, roll them as thin as possible, and bake them in an oven three parts cold. Cakes (Spanish').*—One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one pound of eggs, leaving out one third of the whites; put them into moulds, and bake them in a slow oven. Cake (Sponge).—Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of six in flour; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. Cakes (Twelfth).—Make a cavity in the centre of six pounds of flour, set a sponge with a gill and a half of yeast, and a little warm milk; put round it a pound of fresh butter, in small lumps, a pound and a quarter of sifted sugar, four pounds and a half of currants, half an ounce of sifted cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of pounded cloves, mace, and nutmegmixed, and sliced candied orange and lemon peel, and citron. When risen, mix all well together with a little warm milk; have the hoops well prepared and buttered, and fill them with the mixture, and bake them. When nearly cold, ice them over with sugar, as per re- ceipt, or they may be quite plain. Cake en Turban.—This is the same composition as Turk’s Cap, with ice cream, only baked in small moulds, ribbed or twisted in the same manner as the largo ones, and served in their natural colour. Cakes (Water, with Caraway Seeds).— Take three pounds of powdered sugar, and four pounds of sifted flour, mix the flour and sugar together on a clean dresser, with half water and half whites of eggs, and as many caraway seeds as you think proper; i | mix all together, so as to make a very fine I paste, that you can roll it on the dresser, : | and the thinner the better; cut out the shape you like with a tin cutter; round j and scalloped is the most common, but i vary the shape to your own fancy, roll 1 them very thin, and they will be the crisper, for if they are not crisp, they are not worth eating; put them on a sheet of paper, and put them into rather a slow oven, and if you think it too hot, put as |i many sheets of paper as you think fit, to prevent them from being burnt, bake them very little, so as just to change the colour ; of them, and butter the sheet of paper you i put them on, that they may come off easily. Cakes (Yeast).—Take a pound of flour, i two pounds of currants, washed and picked, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a pound of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of a pound of citron and candied ) orange peel cut into slices, cinnamon and mace, a small quantity of each pounded and sifted. Make a hole in the centre of the ingredients, put in a gill of sweet wine, a little warm milk, mix all together, fill a hoop with it, let it remain till it rises, and bake it. Cakes (Yorkshire).—Take two pounds I of flour, and mix with it four ounces of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonsful of yeast, and two eggs ; i beat all well together, and let it rise; then knead it, and make it into cakes ; let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is shorter, the last lighter. CALF’S Brains in Aspic.*—Prepare your brains as for poeUes. Put some luke- warm aspic into a mould, lay it about an inch thick, let it cool and congeal, and then having cut the brains into four parts, | place them on the aspic in a thin layer, and pour on them a sufficient quantity of nearly cold aspic to fill the mould, and place it in ice. When properly set, and it is wanted for table, heat a cloth, and rub your mould with it until the jelly quits the side; or dip the mould into warm water; turn it out with great care, and if any pieces of tho jelly should be spilled on the dish, suck them up by means of a reed. Calf’s Brains h V Allcmande*—f leanse the brains thoroughly ; divide them into four lengths, trim, and put them into s stewpan^ lined with bacou, moisten with