ADVERTISEMENT TO FIRST EDITION. In presenting this system of Cookery to the Public, the Editor begs leave to state, that the Work is not only substantially new, but com- posed upon a plan entirely original. The arrangement is alphabetical, at once the simplest and best for reference; yet it has never hitherto been adopted by writers on Cookery. To all other arts and sciences this mode of arrangement has been successfully applied ; and Dictiona- ries of these have been found to be the most convenient and popular compendiums of knowledge. Perhaps oi all works that teach the arts of civilized life, Cookery"Books most require to be easy of reference; the preparation of a single dish will often compel a cook to turn to a dozen receipts; and the plan of all the systems hitherto existing is so confused, that when this is the case, much time must be lost in searching for them. The difficulty of finding, with sufficient dispatch, the various receipts which are often required, has long been complained ot; and it is therefore singular that the plan of the present Work, apparently so obvious, and certainly so well calculated to save time and abridge labour, should not have been sooner adopted. With regard to the contents of this volume, apart trom its plan, the Editor begs to state, that he has enriched his Dictionary of Cookery and Confectionary with numerous excellent receipts, most oi winch have seldom or never appeared in print before ; and these have a star ( ) prefixed to note them. The number of asterisks throughout the will abundantly prove that novelty of matter, as well as of plan may be claimed for this volume. To the important subject ot Confec- tionary, so much neglected in other Cookery Books, much attention has been paid ; and u?on the whole, the Editor ™^*ha***t he will be allowed to have given to the Public a valuable V ork. Among other novelties, will be found an alphabetical^ list. of Jhe va- rious kinds of Fish, Flesh, Fowl Fruits, months when each is in season; and original instructions for choosing the several kinds of food. The Editor has only further to observe, that so far fi ^ much to himself of the credit which may be he is free to confess himself largely indebted to the5 tale . ^ { of numerous friends in the profession, to whom he takes this oppoitumty of returning his grateful acknowledgements. London, May 30, 1830.