130 CAU CAR spoon; when tlie butter begins to fry and the carrots well mashed, put in a small ladleful of good consommd, a very little su- gar- and salt; continue to stir them until nearly reduced to the thickness they were at first; add three table-spoonsful of sauce tournee, stir it on the fire for three minutes, and rub it through the tammy in a large dish; if too thick, add a little more consomme, put it in a stewpan, and before it is wanted, stir it over the fire to boil for four or five minutes ; if not strong enough, mix in a bit of glaze. Carrots (Rugont of).*—Cut some car- rots about two fingers in length, shaping them round ; boil them a quarter of an hour in water, and then put them in a 6tewpan with some good stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt; when done, add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, and serve the ragout with any dish you please. Cabhots with White Sauce.—Parboil and slice the carrots ; boil them in a pint of water, a small piece of butter, and some salt; when done, and the sauce thick, make it into a sauce, blanch with butter and flour, and serve. . Carrots (Souffles of).—Make a thick 'puree of carrots, but instead of biotli use water, in which put a great deal of sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter ; let all this boil till very tender; then put the yolks of six eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send, beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with the lest, and put it into the oven. Carrot Soup.—Take twelve large red carrots, scrape and wash them clean ; slice the red part thin, with four onions and four heads of celery; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan aud a pound of lean ham, minced (raw); add the roots, and let fiy and draw down till of a glaze, then fill up with three quarts of good stock and let it boil gently till the roots are quite soft; add the crust of a roll, strain the roots from the stock, pound them well in a mortar; add the stock ao-ain, and rub it through a tammy-cloth with wooden spoons ; make it hot again, skim, and season it with salt, pepper, and sugar. Servo with fried bread cut in dice on a plate. . Carrots (Slewed).—Scrape and wash the carrots, then blanch and cut them m slices, next turn them a few times over the lire, with butter, salt, pepper, and shred par- sley • moisten with some milk, and when done thicken the sauce with the yolks of I eggs and serve. Another way.—Put the carrots into a stew-pan with a few slices of bacon, some i parsley, green onions, salt, and pepper, i moistened with stock, or gravy. Let it stew till thick and reduced; serve alto- j; gether. Cassia (Candied). — Pound a little I musk and ambergris with as much of tlie powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- lings. Having pounded them well to- gether, take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a candy height, then put in your pow-der and mix well together. But- ter some pew-ter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. Cassia (Ratafia of ).*—'Take a pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter cherries, a quarter of a pound of cassia leaves, and half a drachin of cinnamon; bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredients in three quarts of brandy for three weeks* I Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart I of water, and mix with the Liqueur, and II let it stand some time longer, then strain I aud bottle it. Cork it up close. Caudle.—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a piece of lemon peel, and nutmeg. Caudle.—Make a fine smooth gruel of - half groats ; wiien boiled, strain it, stir it at times till oold. When wanted for use, add sugar, wine, and lemon peel, with some nutmeg. According to taste, yon may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoonful of brandy or lemon juice. Caudle (Brown).—Boil the gruel the | same as for white caudle, with six spoons- ful of oatmeal, and strain it; then add a quart of good ale, not bitter; boil it, then t sweeten it according to your taste, and add half a pint of white wine. IN ben you I do not put in the white wine, let it be half ale. Caudle (a Flour).—Rub smooth one 1 dessert-spoonful of fine Hour into five large, spoonsful of the very purest water. Put over the fire five spoonsful ot neW milk, add to it two bits ot sugar; the in- i stnnt it boils, pour into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire tor B twenty minutes. Caudle ( Coh/).—Boil a quart of spring water; when cold, add the volk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonsful |