461 ROA ROO well picked rice, theu drain it ou a sieve; put about a teacupful in the soup pot, with one head of celery, and a quart of I consomme, and let it simmer by the side of the stove for three hours. If it thickens too much add more consomme, season with a little salt; take out the celery, and send the soup to table. Rice Soup.*—Wash your rice well in warm water, changing it frequently; then put the rice into a saucepan, with some good stock ; set it on the fire, and leave it to swell for half an hour, but do not let it boil; when the rice has imbibed all the stock, add a sufficient quantity to cover the rice, cover, and boil it slowly for two hotirs; in the mean time broil two or three slices of beef, and pepper and salt them well; when of a nice dark colour, throw them into the rice soup, to which they will impart a rich flavour and a fine colour. Rice d la VHnilienne*—Boil some rice in good broth, and when soft, mis them with beef marrow, pounded almonds, su- gar, and orange-flower water; set these on a gentle fire, and when of a good consist- ence, pour it on a dish ; glaze, and colour it with a salamander. RISSOLES a la d’Artois.—Make a sort of forcemeat of chicken, partridge, rabbit, for sweetbread, &c. (see Croquettes'), and make a rissole paste (see Coltops), which roll out very thin ; make the force- meat into little round balls, and place them at equal distances on the paste; e«-f them lightly, and turn the end over ; cut them with the gigging iron to the shape of a scallop, prick each of them, and fry them quickly in lard ; lay them on paper as you do them ; serve them very hot, with a napkin under them. ROACH.—The roach is a very coarse and bony fish : those which are taken from rivers are very superior to those which are taken from ponds. They are in season in April and May. Roach (Boiled).—Scale, gut, and wash them ; wipe them, cut them in three or four places on the sides ; put into a stew- pan some small beer, vinegar, and water, 1 (enough to cover the fish), some salt a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, and a stick ' of horseradish sliced ; when it boils, put i in the fish. Serve with anchovy sauce! Roach (Fried). — Scale and gut "the ‘! roach. wash them in salt and water, wipe -'them exceedingly dry; flour, and fry ’ them in boiling lard ; they must he brown •' and crisp; lay them in a warm dish • pour the fat out of the pan, put in a piece of butter, and when it boils, fry some sage and parsley crisp; lay it ou the roach. Serve with anchovy sauce. ROCAMBOLE, or 1 Vi id Garlic.*— Peel some rocamboles, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water; set them on the fire, until they will yield easily to pres- sure, then throw them into cold water. Reduce some veloute, thicken it a little, and the rocamboles being cold, drain and put them in ; give them a toss over the fire, and then serve. ROLLS.—Warm an ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, then add a spoonful and a half of yeast of small-beer, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and put in the above. Set it to rise for an hour; knead it well; make it into even rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. Rolls (French). — Rub one ounce of butter into a pound of flour; then add to it one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and a sufficient quantity of milk, to make a dough of moderate stiffness. Beat it well, but do not knead it; let if rise, and bake on tins. Rolls (French) .—Warm three spoonsful of milk, and the same quantity of water with a bit of butter the size of a walnut! put it to two spoonsful of thick yeast; put this into the middle of rather more than a quart of flour, mix the whole together to the consistence of a batter-pudding, addino- more flour if necessary, to make it the proper thickness; strew a little flour over it from the sides, and if the weather is cold set it at a little distance from the fire; do this three hours before it is put into the oven ; when it breaks a good deal through the flour and rises, work it into a lio-ht paste with more warm milk and water “let it lie till within a quarter of an hour of setting into the oven, then work them lightly into rolls; flour a tin, and drop them on, handle them as little as possible ; pet them before the fire. About twenty minutes will be sufficient time to bake them; put a little salt into the flour. Rasp the rolls. 1 Rolls Short (Hot).*—Dry before the fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make three penny rolls, or larger if you like : add to it an egg well beaten, a little salt, two spoonsful of yeast, and a little warm milk ; make it into a light dough, let it stand in a warm place all night. Bake the rolls in a quick oven. ROOTS (Fetites Racines) *— Cut some young carrots into small pieces, about an inch and a half long, make them round.