PEA PEA 404 have boiled up three or four times, take the whole off the fire and put it into glass or China jais. During the six days that the fruit lays in the syrup, take care to place a piece of paper the size of the pan on the surface of the syrup, to prevent the fruit from rising above the syrup, and keep it all equally moist. . Plums are done exactly in the same Peaches with Pistachios (Gimblettes of)*—Take some puff' paste, give it lour turns, and roll it out into two thin layers, each thirteen inches square, one of which place on a baking tin (previously moist- ened!, spread over this a pot of peach marmalade, cover itwith the other layer, and then cut it with a circular paste cutter ol two inches diameter, take out the middle with a cutter of one inch diameter. Beat -up half the white of an egg, and a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and wash the gimblettes over with it; m the remaining glaze add the other hall white of egg, and throw into it a quarter of a pound of pis- tachios ; when these are completely covered with the glaze, stick them on the gimblettes, en couronne; when baked, re- place them in the oven to dry a minute or two, and serve either hot or cold. Peaches in a Timbale.—'These are done the same as -peaches in a compote, only that a small quantity of isinglass should be mixed in to turn them into a gentle !elly; serve them in a timbale. 2 Peach Tourte.*—Put a layer of tart paste on a flat dish, moisten the edge, round which put a band of paste about an inch and a half wide; put a piece ot buttered paper and a cover of common paste on, which prick in several places, Florez the band, bake and glaze it; when done, take out the paper and paste, and put in their place a compote of peaches, reduce the syrup, and the moment be- fore it is sent to table, glaze the fruit ""'pEaches (Vol-au-vcnt of) *-Take three quarters of a pound ot puff paste (of six urns! roll it out into a round piece of turns;, diameter, put this on a “7v"tta “v‘r of”"" very th 3 . 0;nt 0f a knife mark it 7„d“wh» lUciemly baked t^e out the middle, dry it a minute fwo sprinkle it all over with powder ..ml daze it. Take twelve ripe peaches', as near of a size as possible, cut them in halves, and boil them in a syrup made with six ounces of sugar; when done, drain, pare, and place those which are least coloured, en couronne, at the bottom of the vol-au-vent, arrange the re- mainder over, with the kernels introduced here and there ; reduce the syrup, and just before the dish is sent to table, pour it over the fruit. PEARS (Baked).—Take half a dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, and take out the cores ; put them into a pan with a little red wine, a few cloves, half a pound of sugar, and some water. Set them in a moderate oven till tender, then put them on a slow fire to stew gently ; add grated lemon peel, and more sugar if necessary. They will be sufficiently red. Peaks in Brandy*—Take some beurrS pears not too ripe, put them into a sauce- pan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover them, set them on the fire, and let them simmer, but not boil, until the pears , will yield to the pressure of your finger ; then change them into cold water; pare them with the greatest care, so that not a single spot may remain; prick, and put them again on the fire in fresh water and the juice of a lemon; let them boil very fast. As soon as the pears are soft enough for the head of a pin to penetrate them easily, take them out carefully with a skimmer, and lay them in cold -water. In the mean time, having boiled your sugar to lisse, pour the boiling syrup on the pears, (previously drained, from the water), leave them. The next day drain off the syrup, boil it to la nappe, then put in the pears, give them a boil also; proceed m the same manner on the third day, which, draiii the fruit, and put it into bottles. Boil up the syrup a few more times, let it cool, and then pour on it some brandy (three-fourths of the quantity of the syrup) ; run the mixture through a bag, put it to the pears, and cork the bottles well. Peaks Candied—are done like apneots. Pears (Compote of).*—Take some good sized pears, cut them in halves, and put them into boiling water; when sott, change them into cold water, in whien squeeze a little lemon juice. Boil some clarified sugar, drain the fruit well Pom the water, and then put them into t svrun • boil together until the pears ar sufficiently done ; skim and pUce them m the compotier. A little Burgun and prepared cochineal will give the com pote a red colour.