PAR 400 PAR large and small fillets of four partridges into scallops, sprinkle them with salt, and fry them lightly in some butter ; then, having drained them, take out the butter,, and put into the pan three spoonsful of fumet of game, and two of allemande; give them a boil, and put the scallops into it, with some sliced truffles or mushrooms, a small piece of butter, and lemon juice. Dish them with croquettes of game round, glaze, and serve. Partridges (Souffld of).—Cut off the meat from some cold roasted partridges, chop and pound it well with some veloutS and butter; season it well, add the yolks of four or five eggs, and rub thepuree through a sieve into a basin. >> hip the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, which mix lightly with the puree ; put the whole carefully into a dish, and bake it. Lay a paper over the top to prevent its burning. Twenty minutes are sufficient to do it properly. It should be served the moment it is taken out ot the oven. _ _ tt Partridge a la St. Laurent* Haying 'picked and otherwise prepared your par- tridges, cut off the claws, and truss the legs"within the body near the rump, with- out, however, mailing a large hole ; then spread out the birds, and beat them on the breasts, in order to give them as much surface as possible; sprinkle them we 1 with salt and pepper, and lay them breast downwards in a pan, in which is a little oil, set it on the fire, and when one side is done, turn them; about half an hour before dinner, broil them very slowly; take two ladiesful of espagnole, the juice ot a lemon and a half, some of the peel, a little salt and pepper ; give this one boil, and when the partridges are done, serve with this sauce over them. Partridges a la Sultane. Take four partridges, from one of which cut all the meat, remove the sinews, &c. and pound it with some calf’s cudder, mushrooms, ami anchovy, add a little conwmm*. and stuff the three remaining birds with this farce • lard them with anchovies and mushrooms placed alternately ; roast diem before a slow fire, basting them eitherw th / ofnrV * brown them nicelyt consomme or stocK, uru - , sprinkle salt and pounded spice over, and serve them hot. . „ T , three Partridges en Surprise, —lake three very fresh partridges, clean and bone them all but the largo bone of the leg, on ea o» L clawB; lay tl.am o,,.a on » season with salt and pepper, and spread over them a thin layer of partridge farce- cuile ; fill up the bodies with a cold sal- picon; roll and sew them into their origi- nal form, truss the claws outwards, put them into a pan with a little butter, and brown the breasts; let them cool, and then lard the breasts. Break the bones, and put them into a stewpan, with a thin slice of ham, two onions, a clove, a carrot, a little mace, a well-seasoned bouquet, a glass of Madeira, a spoonful of conmsom(, and some grated bacon; put the birds into this, cover them with a double paper, but- tered ; cover the saucepan close, put fire on the lid, and set them on a brisk fire for half an hour; let the breasts be as much coloured as if roasted; drain and dish them. Serve with fumet of game, or their own sauce strained. Partridge <1 la Tartare*—The partridge being trussed properly, dip it into melted butter, let it be well covered with, it, sprinkle salt and pepper over, and roll it in bread-crumbs, then broil it very slowly; when done, serve it over a remoulade or sauce a la Tartare; or, if you like it better, a sauce piquante, or clear gravy. Partridges with Truffles. Prepare three or four partridges, with truffles in the inside, the same as directed for phea- sants ; only, instead of roasting, stew them in a good braize ; then, having a few truffles well prepared, and mixed in good brown sauce, squeeze in a lemon ; and when i ery hot, pour the whole over the partridges, and serve. „ „ . „ Partridges with Truffles. Empty three partridges through the breasts with great care; put a pound of grated bacon into a saucepan ; add some middling-size truffles, in quarters, salt, pepper, and spices; when they simmer, throw in the trimmings of the truffles; take it oft m about ten minutes, and when cold stuff the partridges with this preparation ; tie them up as round as you can, and put them into a saucepan, between slices of bacon ; make a poele without any lemon, pour tins over, and simmer an hour and a half; then dram, untie, and lav them in a disli. Mince two truffles, give them a few turns in a little butter: then add three ladiesful of ctpag- vole, and three of fumet of game; reduce the sauce to half, take off the fat, and serve it over the birds. _ .. Partridges to truss.—Partridges > done in exactly the same way as pheasants are trussed. (See Pheasants.) Partridges ft la VUleroi.-Put ^ome small onions into a little stock, with a bit