CAB CAB 93 Cabbage (to boil).—Having cut your stuffing may fall out, and boil it in some cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of stock; with the saucepan-lid on. water, with a handful of salt. When it is Cabbage a la Creme.*—Wash your cab- tender, drain it on a sieve, but never press bage very clean; boil it in water, with a it. Savoys and greens are boiled in the little salt, then leave it to drain and cool: same manner; but they should always be boiled by themselves. You may, if you please, chop it, and beat it with a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. Cabbages (Boiled and Stewed).—Cab- bages are generally simply tied round, and boiled. If you wish to stew them, cut a cabbage into four; boil it a quarter of an i hour, with a piece of streaked bacon, cut ; into bits, and the rind on. Afterwards ! change it in cold water; squeeze it well, i and tie each quarter that it may keep its i form. Then stew it with some stock, salt, and pepper, a buuch of parsley and green onions, cloves, a little nutmeg, two or three roots, and the meat you intend to serve with it; when both the meat and ; cabbage are done, wipe off the grease, and dish it for table, tire streaked bacon on it, and serve with a sauce of good cullis, . agreeably seasoned. The different parts 1 of meat that cabbages are best boiled with i are, veal tendons, breast of beef, a bit of ( round of beef, pork chitterlings, a shoulder i of mutton, boned and tied into a round, or a trussed capon. Whatever meat the cab- bage is stewed with, should be previously boiled a few minutes in water, to take oil' the scum. Cabbage a la Bourgeoise*—Take a whole cabbage, boil it during a quarter of an hour, and then shift it into cold water; squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves, which you must take off one by one, spreading over each a little force- meat, made like that for stuffed duck. Put the leaves again one over the other, that they may appear as if the cabbage was entire ; secure them thus with packthread, and stew them a la braise in the same man- ner as neat’s tongue, seasoning to your taste AVhen the cabbage is done, press Jt lightly in a linen cloth, to take off the at; cut it in two, and put it on a dish, pouring over it a good cullis. Cabbage d la Bourgeoise.—Take out the heart of some large cabbages, parboil them, and then stuff the centre of the cabba-e between each leaf, with the following stuffing: Mince the white part of the imultry, or game, with some bacon and Ve®‘ >. lf y°u have no poultry the veal is sufficient; thicken with the yolks of some eSgs; tie up the cabbage, that none of the afterwards cut it in middling-sized pieces, and brown them in butter, adding salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; moisten with cream, then reduce it over a gentle fire, till it becomes of a very thick consistence. Cabbage a la Creme.—Wash and boil the cabbage in water, with a handful of salt; when soft, take it out, squeeze it, and put it in a stewpan, with some but- ter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a spoon- ful of flour, moistening with a little cream. Cabbage Cream.—Put a gallon of milk over the fire, and skim it as long as any froth rises, then empty it into eight or ten bowls, as fast as you can without making it froth; then set them in a place where the A\dnd may blow upon them ; when the milk is rather cooled, gather off the cream with your hands, crumple it together and lay it on a plate ; when you have laid four or five layings, one upon another, then dip a feather in rose water and musk, and stroke it over it; then sift some fine su°-ar and grated nutmeg over it, and lay°on three or four layers more; then set all the milk on the fire to boil again, and when it rises up, distribute it as you did before in your bowls, and use it in the like manner ; this do for four or five times, laying on your cream as before, one upon another, till it is as high and as round ns a cab- bage. Let one of the bowls stand, be- cause it will be thickest and most crum- pled, and lay that last on the top of all ; strew loaf sugar pounded over the whole' and serve. Cabbage a la Flamande.*—Cut a cab- bage into quarters, parboil, and then change it into cold water ; squeeze it, take out, the heart, and tie it round ; then stew it with a piece of butter, some good stock, seven or eight onions, a bunch of herbs,’ and a little salt and coarse pepper ; when almost done, put in some vinegar; and when the whole is sufficiently cooked, take a crust ot broad, rather larger than the palm of your hand, fry it in butter; and put it into the bottom of the dish, upon which place the cabbage and sausages, with the onions round, taking care that the tat bo well dried off the whole ; then skim the sauce, add a little cullis to it, and serve it, neither too thick, nor too thin, pour over the whole.