NOU 369 NEC it out, lard it as a fricandeau, and finish it in roasting. Serve under a relishing sauce, or send it up plain. Neat’s Tongue Roasted a la Franfaise.— Boil a neat’s tongue, and blanch it; set it by till it is cold, then cut a hole in the under part, and take out the meat, mince it with ttvo or three hard eggs, an apple, beef suet, and bacon; season with salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred very i fine; stuff the tongue with this forcemeat; i then cover the end with a veal caul, lard it with bacon, and roast it; serve with a i sauce made of gravy, butter, and the juice of oranges, garnish the dish with sliced lemon peel and barberries. Neat’s Tongue, with Truffles.—Boil a pickled neat’s tongue two hours ; take off )i the skin, let it remain cool ; then cut a I large incision in the under part, and fill it with light forcemeat, with some green truffles pounded in it, sew it up, trim it neatly, rub it over with yolk of egg, and '( cover it with paste made with beef marrow, I instead of butter; afterwards wash the paste over with white of egg, ornament it in the same manner as a raised pie, with the remaining part of the paste, then bake iit till tender in a moderately heated oven, and serve it up with truffle sauce under, or it may be served with stewed spinach or turnips. It map be eaten until chickens, turkey, ! or roast veal. NECTARINES (Conserve of).—Peel ripe nectarines, slice, and boil them to a marmalade, with a drop of water; reduce I it pretty thick on the fire, mix a quarter of a pound of the marmalade to a pound of sugar, a la grande plume (ninth degree), - and work it well together when it begins to cool, and finish as all others. Nectarine Ice.—Use either marmalade or jelly (which is made the same as peach or apricot jelly), or, if when nectarines are in season, cut seven or eight of them when j quite ripe, bruise them, boil them in a l: pint of water; then sift them; put a suffi- | cient quantity of sugar to the sifted juice ; ! and finish the same as all others. Nectarines (to keep).*—This fruit is '1 bottled in a similar manner to apricots ; j the nectarines should be gathered perfectly ripe, and the skin taken off with great care. Nectarines (to preserve).—Split the i nectarines, and take out the stones, then 1 put them into clarified sugar; boil them till they have thoroughly taken the sugar, I take off all the scum, cover them with a paper, and set them by ; the following day boil a little more sugar to a strong souffle, put it to the nectarines, and give them a good boil; take off the scum, cover them, and put them into the stove; the next day drain them, and lay them out to dry, having previously dusted them a little with sugar, then put them into the stove again. Nectarines (Liquid Sweetmeat of).— The nectarines should be almost ripe ; peel and cut them in halves, simmer them in boiling water till they rise on the sur- face, and then drain them ; boil them in clarified sugar till there is no longer any scum rises, and leave them therein till the next day; then drain them, and boil the sugar to the seventh degree, add the fruit to it to boil a moment, and repeat the same again the following day ; let the fruit and sugar incorporate together for a couple of days, before you put them into pots, and keep the pan in a warm place ; the propor- tion of fruit and sugar in equal quantities. NIVERN OISE.*—Take thirty small carrots, and cut them into pieces like olives, scald them for about five minutes ; drain, cool, and then put them into a 6tewpan, with sufficient plain or root con- somme to cover them ; let the whole boil until the carrots are done, and well incor- porated with the liquor; then use it with the articles requiring it. NONPAREIL.*—Poppy seeds sugared in the manner directed under the article Sugared Seeds, are called Nonpareils ; they are tinged of different colours, by the in- troduction of the various colouring ma- terials into the sugar with which they are covered. NOUGAT.*—Blanch and wash a pound of sweet almonds, and having diained them well, cut each into five slips, which place in a gentle oven to dry white; or let them be all equally coloured of a ci ear yellow ; in the mean time, put three quar- ters of a pound of fine sugar into a pre- serving pan, set it on a stove, stirring with a wooden spoon until completely dis- solved ; then take the almonds out of the oven, and whilst hot throw thorn into the liquid sugar; mix them together well. Hove ready a mould well oiled, of any shape you think proper, in the interior of which place the almonds, by means of a lemon ; when the wbolo is covered, remove the mould carefully, and sorvo the nougat. Noucats ii la Franfaise* — Having blanched three quarters of a pound of fil- berts, separate each nut in half, lay them on a tin-plate, and place them in a slow 2 u