CAK CAK 98 let it stand for an hour; then form your cake and bake as usual. Cake (Chantilly), or Cahe Trifle.—Bake a rice cake in a mould ; when cold, cut it round, about two inches from the edge, ■with a sharp knife, taking care not to per- forate the bottom. Put in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonsful of raspberry jam, and then put on ft high whip. Cake de Cumpie^ne.— Ihe same paste as for brioches, only keep it more liquid with some hot milk; put in a few stoned raisins and currants, Ibis cake is made in a mould well trimmed with buttei. Cakes (Dry)•—Bub one pound of butter into one pound of flour, one pound of sifted sugar (the butter should be soaked all jiight in orange-flower or rose water) whip to snow the whites of eight eggs, beat the yolks of six with a little brandy, mix this very well; butter the pans, only half fill them ; they are baked in halt an hour ; a brisk, not a scorching oven ; they will keep half a year. If agreeable, make them with currants, put three quarters of a Lakes' (Dutch).—Take five pounds of flour, two ounces of caraway seeds, halt a pound of sugar, and somethingmore than a pint of milk ; put into it three quarters of a pound of butter ; then make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put m a pint of good ale yeast; pour in the butter and mills, and make these into a paste, letting it stand a quarter of an hour before the fire to rise ; then mould and roll it into cakes, pretty thin ; prick them all over, or they will blister, and bake them a quarter of an L°Cake (Family).—Take rice and wheat flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump Su°-ar, pounded and sifted, and halt an ounce of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the same tune in a quick oven. This is a very light cake and is very proper for young people and delicate stomachs. „ Cake (Fashion).—Mix a handful of flour with a pint of good cream, half a ponndof beef suet, melted and sifted, a q^terofa pound of powder sugar, half a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, dried floneis of orange, a glass of brandy, n little cori- ander, and salt; bake it as all other cakes, about an hour, and glaze or garnish it. Cakes made of Flowers-—Boil double re- fined sugar to a candy height and strew in your flowers and let them bod once up : then, with your band, lightly strew in a little double-refined sugar sifted, and put it directly into little pans made of card, and pricked full of holes at the bottom ; you must set the pans on a cushion, and when they are cold, take them out. Cake a la Franfaise.*—Take a quart of sifted flour, make a sponge, add toit one ounce of salt, two ounces of sugar, a pound and a half of butter, and twelve eggs; mix the whole well together, work up your paste ; if it is too stiff, moisten it with a little milk ; leave it to stand for half an hour, then add to it half a pound of butter, and give it four turns, the same as a puff paste ; put your cake into a mould, lay it very thick, cut the edges in form of a lo- zenge, gild it, put it upon a baking-tin, ornament it, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Cakes (Gum).—'Take gum dragon, let it lie all night in rose water, till it is dis- solved ; have double-refined sugar, beaten and seared, and mix your gum and sugar together ; make it up into a paste, then roll some up plain, and some with herbs and flowers ; all the paste must be kept se- parately, the herbs and flowers must be beat small before you make them into paste; but you may use the juice of the flowers and herbs only; sweet maijoram, red roses, marigolds, cloves, gilliflowers, and bluebottle berries, all clipped from the white; when you have made all your colours ready, have to every one a little rollingpin and a knife, or else the co- lours will mix; first lay a white, and then a colour, then a white again, for two colours will not do well; so roll them up, and cut them die bigness of a sixpence, but in what form you please, minding that they are rolled very thin. Cakes (Hart).—With your hand work a pound of butter to a cream, then put to it twelve eggs, with only six of the whiter well beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound of sifted sugar, four spoonsful of good brandy, and a pound of currants washed and dried before the fire. As the pans are filled, put in two ounces of candied orange nnd citron, and continue beating the cake till you put it into the oven. This quantity will be sufficient to fill three doaen of mid- dling-sized pans. Cakes (Honeycomb).-—Boil your sugar to a candy height; then put in your flowers, which must bo cut ; have little papers with four corners ready; drop some of vour candy on the papers, take them off when ready, and if they are rightly