QUI 449 QUI saucepan of water (nearly boiling), iu which put a dessert spoon, fill another des- sert spoon with the farce, make the surface quite even with the edge of the spoon, this will give it the form of a half egg; dip the blade of a knife in the hot water, pass it over the top of the quenelle, and then raise it carefully from the spoon, by slipping that which was in the water under, and place it on the dish; proceed in the above manner until you have as many as you wish ; then have ready some boiling stock, which will fill the dishes containing the quenelles (do it with the utmost care, so thatthe quenelles be neither displaced nor spoiled in shape), cover the dishes and set them on the edge of the stove to simmer. When done, drain them, and serve as occasion may require ; or poach them in boiling water, about eight minutes, and mask them with a ve- loute ox bechamel sauce. Quenelle Patties.—Take some puff paste, roll it out very thin, and lay on half of it at intervals, some small pieces of quenelle farce, moisten the paste round each portion, and fold the remainder over it, press it down, and then either with a paste cutter or a knife, cut in semicircles; fry them, and serve with bunches of fried parsley. QUINCE Cakes.-—Pare and core half a dozen quinces, boil them till quite soft; then rub the pulp through a sieve, and strain it; mix this with half a pint of syrup of quinces, and the same of syrup of barberries, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar; boil the whole to casst, and then pour it into small shallow moulds, of any shape you please; let them cool a little, and then dry them in a stove. Quince Cakes (Transparent).—Take a quart of syrup of quinces, and half a pint of the syrup of barberries; set them on a gentle fire, boil and skim them well; then add two pounds and a half of fine sugar ; keep stirring until it reaches candy height, then take it off, and when nearly cold, lay it, in any form you please, on tin plates. Dry them in a stove. Quinces ( Compote of).* — Take six quinces, cut them in halves, and core them ; scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear syrup into a preserving pan, with the juice of a lemon; when hot, add the quinces, and give them a boil together; drain the fruit, arrange it in the compotier; leave the syrup to thicken a little, and pour it over the quinces. Quince Cream.—Take four or five riue quinces, and roast them, but not to soften them; pare, core, slice them thin, and then boil them slowly in a pint of good cream, with a little ginger; when tolerably thick, strain it, add sugar to yeur taste, and flavour it with rose water. Quince Jelly*—Quinces for jelly ought not to be quite ripe, they should, however, be of a fine yellow colour; take off’ the down which covers them, quarter, core, put them into a saucepan, with water enough to cover them ; set them on the fire, and when soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, pressing them very slightly ; strain the liquor, and measure it; clarify, and boil to casse an equal quantity of sugar; then take it oft', add the liquor to it, stirring it well; when mixed, put it on the fire, still stirring; as soon as the jelly spreads over the spoon, and falls from it like treacle; take it from the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. Quinces (to keep).*—Gather the fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound ; rub each carefully with a clean cloth, to remove the down ; then quarter, and put them into bottles, corked tight. Give them half gn hour’s boil in the bain-marie. Quince Marmalade.—Gather the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yellow; pare, quarter, and core it. Put the quinces into a saucepan, with a little water, set them on the fire until they are quite soft; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain; rub them through, weigh the pulp ; boil an equal quantity of sugar to petit casse, then add the pulp, stir them together over the fire, until it will fall from the spoon like a jelly; the marmalade is then fit to be put into pots, and when cold, cover them close. Quinces (to Pickle).—Pare and cut half a dozen quinces into small pieces, and put them, with a gallon of water, and two pounds of honey, into a large saucepan ; mix them together well, and set them on a slow fire for half an hour : strain the liquor into a jar; when quite cold, wipe the quinces perfectly dry, and put them into it; cover them very close. Quinces (Preserved).* — Choose the quinces very ripe, yellow, and perfectly sound ; pare, quarter, and core them ; put them into a little water, and scald them ; as soon as they are soft, throw them into cold water, then put them to drain. Cla- rify and boil to lisse an equal weight of sugar, put in the fruit, cover, andleave them to simmer for a quarter of an hour • then take them from the fire, skim, and’ pour the preserve into a pan. In two days’ time, drain off the syrup, boil it to 2 o