MYR S67 NEA bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and ginger, and cook them in a tightly closed sauce- pan. Make a farce, •with veal sweet- breads, fat livers, bacon, and sweet herbs, all chopped small; mix spices with the farce, and cover each of the slices with it (about half an inch in thickness); tie a slice of bacon round each carefully, and bake them. Mutton Steaks (Broiled). — Cut some mutton steaks from the loin, about half an ’ inch thick, take off the skin, and part ! of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks (place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn the steaks frequently; when they are done, put them into a hot dish, rub them with a little butter; slice a shalot very thin into the dish : add a little ketchup; garnish with scraped horsera- dish and pickles, and send them up hot to table. Mutton Steuks a, la Maintenon.—Half fry the steaks with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Take care that the paper does not catch; to prevent which rub a bit of butter on first ; to be served with a shax-p sauce in a boat. Mutton (Tourte of).—Cut the meat of a neck of mutton into thin slices; also slice some onions; line a dish with puff paste, at the bottom of which, put a layer !of godiveau; place some of the mutton on this, then a part of the onions, season with pepper and salt; on these, put ano- ther layer of godiveau, then the mutton, onions, and so on, alternately, till all is used; then cover them with butter, and it thin slices of bacon; lay a crust over, fj and bake it about an hour and a half, or 'I more, according to its size. When done, 1 remove the top, take out the bacon, skim it well, and pour in some cullis, in which a little mustard is mixed ; take care the sauce runs into all parts; replace the top, i and serve it. r M\ R I LL (Oil of).*—Put two ounces ot peach leaves, and the half of a nutmeg 1 "ru*se(li into six quarts of brandy; distil , , om this in a bain-marie alembic your !] liqueur, in which infuse half a pound I of myrtle flowers for four days. Dissolve five pounds of sugar in three quarts of 1 pure river water; the moment it bcrins to boil, take it from the fire, and le”t it cool; take the myrtle flowers from the liqueur, and put in the sugar; mix them tvoll, colour it with tincture of saffron strain and bottle it. N. NASTURTIUMS (Pickled).—As soon as the blossoms are off', gather the little knobs; put them into cold water with some salt; shift them once a day for three suc- cessive days; make a cold pickle of white wine vinegar, a little white wine, shalot, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quar- ters, and horseradish, and put your nas- turtium buds into this pickle. NEAT’S Feet (Fried),—Boil yourneat’s feet, and split them; then fry them in clarified butter, or take out the bone, and fry them in butter with a little salt, and some good stock; when you have fried them a little, put in some mint, thyme, and parsley, shred small, and some beaten pepper; beat the yolks of eggs, mutton stock, vinegar, the juice of lemon, or orange and nutmeg, pour the sauce upon them, and serve. Neat’s Foot Pudding.—Boil a couple of neat’s feet till they are tender, mince the meat small, with an equal quantity of beef suet; season them with salt, cinna- mon, and sugar, mince a quarter of a pound of orange peel very fine, put in two liandsful of grated bread, six or eight eggs, and currants at pleasure; mix all these well together: butter a pudding- bag, put in your pudding, tie it up close, and let it boil for two hours; serve with sweet sauce. Neat’s Tongue en Bresalles.* — Par- boil a neat’s tongue in water, then take oft the skin, and cut the tongue into small thin slices, about the size of half a crown; put them into a stewpan, with parsley, young onions, and mushrooms, the whole cut small, add whole pepper, and sweet oil; put it over a very slow fire, adding a glass of white wine as soon as it begins to boil ; when quite done, add a little cullis; if it should not be sufficiently highly fla- voured, you may add in serving the juice of a lemon. Neat’s Tongue in Caul. — Boil a tongue sufficiently to peel, then lard it, and split it, without separating it in two ; fry some sliced onions in fresh hog’s lard, put to them two or three spoonsful of hog’s blood, about a quarterof a pound of lard chopped, a few fine spices, and salt; simmer this, stirring continually, until the blood is well nnxed; lay a caul in the bottom of your dish, and spread upon it part of this prepa- ration ; then place in the tongue, and cover it with the remainder; roll it up in the