30 APR APR pots in sugar, and take tlie liquor in which they have boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till it comes to a syrup, and give them a light boiling, taking off the scum as it rises. When the syrup jellies it is enough; then take up the apricots and cover them with the jelly; put cut paper over them, and lay them down when cold. Apricots, to preserve Green.— Gather the apricots before they have stones, which you may discover by passing a pin through them; then coddle them in several waters until they become quite green ; peel them and coddle them again; then take their weight in sugar, and make a syrup; put to the sugar some water, then put in the apricots, and set them upon the fire to boil slowly till they he clear, skimming them often, when they will be quite green. Put them in glasses, and keep them for use. Apricot Pudding.—Whisk up a pint of milk or cream, six eggs, four table-spoons- ful of fine flour, a little salt, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon. Rub the apricots well through a hair sieve, and add a sufficient quantity of the pulp to make the whole a little thicker than batter; sweeten, and put it into a buttered basin, and boil an hour and a quarter. Serve with melted butter. Apricot Pudding a, la Frangaise.*— Take six-and-thirty nice fine red apricots, cut them in halves, and take out the stones, and roll them in a pan with four ounces of powdered sugar. Prepare your crust, line your mould with it, put in your apri- cots, and finish the same as in the receipt for Apple Pudding a. la Frangaise. Apricot Puffs.*—Roll out some puff paste to about fifteen inches long, the eighth of an inch in thickness, and five or six inches wide: then lay on at equal dis- tances, two inches from the edge of the paste, a small quantity of apricot manna- lade ; moisten the paste round each bit of marmalade, and turn the two inches of paste over, press it down round the pre- serve so as to unite the upper and under crusts, and to keep the marmalade from spreading ; and then with a circular paste- cutter, using half of it only, cut them out into semicircular turnovers; place them on a baking-tin, dorez and bake them in a hot oven. When nearly done, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them. Apricot liaiajia.—Peel and cut into pieces as many ripe apricots as you may require, and boil them in white wine (about a pint to four dozen); strain and mix it with an equal quantity of brand)'; put the whole into a jar, with the kernels bruised, add a quarter of a pound of sugar to each pint. Let it infuse for three weeks, then filter and bottle it. Apricots (Souffle Parisien of).9—Take forty-six fine ripe apricots cut'in half and stoned, three quarters of a pound of sugar in syrup, make a dry marmalade and pass it through a sieve. Whip eighteen whites of eggs to a strong froth, and mix two spoonsful of it with the marmalade, and when it has sufficiently softened the latter, mix all together lightly and pour it into a croustade, and finish as directed for Souffle Parisien of Apples. Apricot (Liquid) Sweetmeat or Preserve.* '—Green apricots are done in the same way as green almonds: the fruit must be taken before the stone is formed; when you can put a pin through them. Apricot Sweatmeat whole and drv.*— Choose fine firm apricots, make a little opening at the top to take out the stone, put them into cold water, then blanch them over the fire ; when they begin to boil, take out those which are soft, throw them into cold water, and drain them. In the mean time, prepare some clarified sugar to petit lisse. When it boils, put in the apri- cots, and boil up a few times together. The next day separate the sugar from the fruit, boil a la nappe, and then pour it over the apricots again; the following day boil the sugar petit perle, then add die fruit, and boil together; the fourth day drain them; and, having placed diem on iron plates, sprinkle them with sugar before you put them into the stove to drv; when dry, place in boxes in layers, placing a sheet of paper between each layer. Apricot Syrup.—Take the stones from a pound of ripe apricots ; peel and cut the kernels into small pieces ; also cut up the apricots. Boil two pounds of sugar, until on blowing it flies off in sparks ; then put in the kernels and fruit, and boil them to- gether, until it forms a thread; then strain through a sieve. The sugar must be put in proportion to the time you wish to keep die syrup ; two pounds of sugar to one pound of fruit is die quantity to keep from one year to the other. ArnicoT Tart.—Cut each in two, and break the stones; if the fruit is not ripe enough, boil a little while in water, then drain them well; put them into paste with sugar, a little preserved lemon, and a few