SWE 487 SYL a pound of bitter almonds, pound them to a very fine paste in a marble mortar, with the whites of four eggs; when perfectly smooth, add a pound of the best lump sugar (in powder), and five or sis more whites of eggs; stir all together well, until of such consistence that it may be kneaded without adhering to the hands. Divide this preparation into two parts, one of which, tiDge of a red colour, either with bolus armena, or cochineal, and perfume it with essential oil of roses or bergamot; leave the other portion of paste white, but flavour it as follows : Grate the rind of two fine sound lemons on a small piece of sugar, scrape off the surface, and when pounded in a small mortar, work it into the uncoloured portion of sugar paste, then roll it out to about half an inch in thickness (having previously sprinkled the slab with powder sugar), cut it with a tin paste-cut- ter about two inches diameter; arrange them on white paper, which place on a baking-tin, and put them into a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour ; proceed in the same manner with the coloured paste. AVhen cold, detach them from the paper. Sugar Paste.—Take a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, a little salt, one egg; mix all together with a little water. This paste may be used for any second-course dish. Sugar Vinegar.—To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar ; boil, and skim it thoroughly, then put one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, but not cold, put into it a toast spread with yeast; stir it for nine days, at the end of which time barrel it, and place it in such a situation that the sun may lie on it; put a slate on the bunghole. The best time to make it is in March; it will be fit for use in six months. When sufficiently sour it should be bottled, or it may be used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. SWEETBREADS.— (See under the articles, Veal, Beef, &c.) Sweetbread Pie.—Lay a puff paste, half an inch thick, at the bottom of a deep dish, and put a forcemeat round the sides ; cut three or four sweetbreads in pieces, according to the size of the pie, lay them in first, then some artichoke bottoms, each cut into four parts; then some cocks’ combs, a few truffles, morels, asparagus tops, and mushrooms, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and forcemeat balls ; season with pepper and salt; nearly fill the pie with water, put on the lid, and let it bake for two hours. Thicken some veal gravy with a little cream and flour, and pour into the pie when baked. SWEETMEATS ( Brown ). * — These sweetmeats may be made with the cuttings and remains of any kind of sugars or can- died articles, and even of spiced bread; pound whatever ingredients you intend to use extremely fine, and pass the powder through a tammy on to the table ; in the centre of this heap make a hollow, into w'hich put as many eggs as may be neces- sary to form a paste, then cinnamon, cloves, and bolus armena, all reduced to an impal- pable powder; use only a sufficient quan- tity of the latter to give the paste a clear cinnamon colour; sugar may be added, if required. Work all the above ingredients together into a firm paste with a little flour, then roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut out of it, with tin paste cutters, figures of any kind you may think proper; place them on white paper, and bake them for half an hour. When done, decorate them according to your taste. Sweetmeat Pudding. — Slice thin, of orange, lemon peel, and citron, an ounce each; lay them at the bottom of a dish, lined with a light puff paste ; mix with half a pound of butter melted, the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of two, and five ounces of sugar; pour this over the sweet- meats, and set it in the oven ; it will take rather more than half an hour baking. SILLABUBS.*—Take the juiceofa large lemon, the peel (pared very thin), a glass of brandy, two of white wine, and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; put these ingredients into a pan, and leave them ; the next day, add a pint of thick cream, and the whites of two eggs ; whip the whole well, and pour the syllabub into glasses. They are the better for keeping a day or two. If the syllabubs are^ not wanted quite so good as the above, raisin or mountain wine will do as well as brandy. Syllabub (Somersetshire).—Put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or any other white wine, into a large bowl, sweeten it according to taste ; milk the bowl full; in about twenty minutes’ time, cover it toler- ably high with clouted cream ; grate nut- meg over it; add pounded cinnamon, and nonpareils. S y i,i.a bub (Staffordshire).—Put a pint of