CAR 123 CAR piecos ; have ready three large spoonsful of veloute, and six of consomme, in which put the cardoons; set them on the fire till reduced to a paste; then pass them through a tammy ; keep your puree, as thick as purdes usually are, hut if too thick, put in a little cream; add a bit of jelly about the size of a walnut; keep it hot without boiling iu the bain-marie. Cardoons ( Puree of) in Croustade.*•— Cut some slices about an inch and a half thick from a large French loaf, fry them of a light colour in butter, drain them; take out the inner crumb, and fill them with a purde of cardoons, having mixed about half an ounce of butter in whilst the jmrde was quite hot. Cabdoons a, la Sauce blanche.—The same preparation as for, Spanish cardoons, receipt second, only serve with the suuce blanche, or French melted butter. Cardoons (Spanish).*—Cut them into lengths of three inches, be careful, not to use those which are hollow and green; boil them for half an hour, then put them into lukewarm water to cleanse them from their slime ; then dress them in some stock, with a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little ver- juice, and a little butter; when done, put them into a cullis with some stock; cook them for an hour in this sauce, and serve. Cardoons (Spanish).—Select a few heads of cardoons, all very white. Cut each leaf into slices of six inches long ; with the exception, however, of those that are hollow, which are tough and thready. Beard them of their prickles, and blanch them, by putting the thickest leaves into boiling water. When you have given these a few boils, put in the leaves of the heart; turn the middle stalks into large olives, and blanch them likewise. Then try a piece in cold water, to see if tire slime which is on the surface will come off by rubbing. If so, take them off the fire im- mediately, and throw them into cold wa- ter, as they are done enough; or you may cool the boiling water, by pouring cold into it till you are able to bear your hand in it, to rub oft' all the slime. This being done, throw the cardoons into a blanc, give them a single boil, and leave them in the blanc. Whenever you wish to use them, drain a sufficient quantity. Bare both ex- tremities, and mask them in a stewpan, With four spoonsful of espagnole, and four spoonsful of consommd, a little salt, and a little sugar. Let them boil over a sharp fire, that they may not be done too much; be sure to skim off all the fat. Dish them nicely. Strain the sauce through a tammy before you mask them. Send them up to table quite hot, with a cover over them, to prevent their getting dry. Cardoons stewed.—Cut them in pieces, take off the outside skin, wash and scald them; put them into a stewpan, add stock enough to cover them, boil till three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced, then add a little bechamelle, and stew them gently till done. Serve with sippets of fried bread round the dish, and the car- doons in the centre. Cardoons au Veloute.—The same pre- paration as for Spanish cardoons. Take some out of the blanc, trim and stew them in a little consomme, and when they are done, drain and sauce them with some veloute. CARP.—Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to pre- vent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish. The tongue and the soft roe should always be taken care of, as they are dainty parts of the fish. Carp.*—-When it is large, it is served au blew as a roast, having drawn and taken out its gills (it should not be scaled), put it upon a large dish, boil some vinegar, and whilst it is boiling hot pour it over the carp, this will turn it blue; then dress it in a thick bouillon. lloast.—When it is done, serve it upon a napkin, garnished with green parsley, as a dish of roast maigre. Carp aw Blanc.*—Clean your carp, and put it into a fish-kettle with some small onions, a good piece of butter, worked up with some flour; moisten it with two glasses of white wine, and one glass of water; let it boil quickly for an hour and a half; when done, and the sauce thick, serve it: you must be careful not to let the sauce be too thick. Carp boiled in Wine.—Take the liver of the carp clean from the guts, three an- chovies, a little parsley, thyme, and onion ; chop them together, and take half a pint of rhenish wine, four spoonsful of vinegar, and the blood of the carp ; stew them gently together, put it to the carp, which must first be boiled in water, with a little salt, and half a pint of wine; but after the carp is put into the sauce, let it not be done too much. Carp broiled.*■—Clenn your carp, cut off the tail and the fins ; put into the body a piece of butter worked up with sweet