CAL CAL 110 Caw’s Feel Pudding.—Mince a pound, of calf's feet fiue, first, taking out the fat and the brown, mix with it a pound and a half of shred suet, the crumb of a small roll grated, the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs well beaten, sufficient milk to moisten it, and sugar to your taste. Boil it nine hours; serve with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. Calf’s Feet roasted.—Blanch and boil the feet till tender, then let them cool. When cold, lard them with small pieces of bacon, tie them on a spit and roast them with a sauce made of butter, vinegar, and cinnamon, beaten up thick. Calf’s Feel Farces en SoleiL.—Prepare the calf’s feet, take out the bone as far as the joint, 'and stew them. When done, set them to drain. 1 hen take a little/arce fine, leaving out the eggs, and stuff the middle of each foot, making them as round as you can ; dip them first into an omelet, seasoned with pepper and salt, and then twice into bread crumbs, and fry them of a fine brown. Garnish with fried parsley veiy green, and send up with them brown sharp sauce. Calf’s Feet stewed.—Divide each foot into four pieces, put them to stew with half a pint of water, with a potatoe, an onion (peeled, and sliced thin) pepper, and salt, simmer these ingredients for two hours gently. Calf’s Head.—Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white ; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender, then strew it over with bread crumbs and parsley chopped, and brown it. Serve with bacon and greens. Boil the brains, and mix them with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt; lay them on a dish, and the tongue in the middle. Calf’s Head a la Bourgeoise.’*—Cleanse and scald a fine calf’s head, skin it care- fully, then take out the brains, tongue, and eyes, and cut the cheeks from the bones ; make a forcemeat with the brains, some fillet of veal, beef suet, salt, pepper, shred parsley, green onions, thyme, basil, halt a bay leaf, two spoonsful’ of brandy and three eggs. Then parboil the tongue, eyes (having removed the black part), and the cheeks, hash them, and put them, with the forcemeat into the skin which was taken from the head, sew it up, and shape it to its natural form ; put it in a vessel just large enough to hold it, with halt a pint of white wine, a pint of stock, parsley, onions, garlic, cloves, pepper and salt. Stew it gently for three hours, drain off tker fat and dry it, and take out the thread. Strain the liquor it was stewed in, and add to it some cullis and a little vinegar, re- duce it and pour it over the head. Serve it on a napkin. This may be brought to table cold; it must then be stewed with more white wine, and less stock. Calf’s Head collared.—Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil tender enough to remove the bones ; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, well mixed; season it high with these; put a thick layer of parsley, then a quantity of thick slices of ham, or a fine coloured tongue skinned, and the yolks of six eggs stuck about in it. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can, put a cloth round, and tie it with tape. Boil, and then lay a weight on it. Calf’s Head collared like Braion.—Scald the head till the hair comes clean off, then cut it in two, and take out the brains and eyes. Wash it perfectly clean, and boil it till the bones come out. Slice the tongue and ears, and lay them all even. Throw a handful of salt on them, and roll it up quite close, as other collars. Boil it two hours. When cold lay it in a brawn pickle. Calf’s Head d la Detiller.*—Take a very delicate calfs head; bone, soak, and blanch it; take out the brains, and let them soak also ; boil in a blanc for three quarters of an hour. W hen the head is cold, dry it in a cloth, singe, and cut it in pieces, leaving the eyes and ears whole ; collect the pieces and tie them so that they keep the original shape, rub it with lemon, and boil it for three hours in a blanc ; then take it out, untie and dish it, place the brains at each end of the dish, and cut the tongue into square pieces the size ot dice, and put them into a sauce made as follows: Put a ladleful of espagnole, half a bottle of white wine, six allspice bruised, and six spoonsful of consomme, reduce these to half, and then put in the pieces of tongue, some mushrooms and gherkins cut into little sticks; pour this sauce over the bead. . Calf’s Head, the Dutch 11 ay.—Lay half a pound of Spanish peas in water for twelve hours: then mix them with a pound of whole rice, and having put a calfs head, properly prepared, into a deep dish, lay the peas and rice round it; pour two