OME OME 373 j fat, and serve it with roast meat of various i kinds. OMELET. —Take eight eggs, break them into a basin, add salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, two spoonsful of cream, two ounces of butter, broke into small pieces, parsley . and shallot finely chopped and washed in a cloth; beat these ingredients well to- gether, then have your omelet pan ready, which should be kept expressly for that purpose, if in the habit of frequently wanting it; put about an ounce of butter in it, heat it over a brisk fire, and before your butter burns to a bad colour, put in the eggs; as they set, continue to stir it about with a spoon, drawing it away from the sides, to allow the whole to be fried ; shake it now and then; put it compactly together, and when you think it a nice clear brown, turn it over into your dish ; serve very hot with little Italienne sauce round it. Omelet a la Celestine*—Make four omelets, of three eggs each, and as thin as possible ; slide them carefully on the table, lay frangipane on, and roll them up into the form of a muff, trim the ends and place them on a dish, sprinkle them with powder-sugar, glaze, and serve them. Omelet a la Creme.—Boil a pint of cream, and put into it the crumb of a French roll, paisley, shalots (both shred small), a little pepper and salt; stir it over the fire till quite thick; then add half a dozen eggs; fry your omelet, ob- serve that it will require rather more time than usual. Omelets a la Dauphine.—Having made one or two thin omelets (without any sea- soning), lay them on a dish, and spread over them some pistachio cream, cherry and apricot marmalade; roll them up, cut them into small pieces, each of which enclose in almond paste ; strew pow- der sugar over, and glaze them with a salamander. Omelets of Eggs for garnishing or cutting in Slips.—Break your eggs, and put the yolks and whites into separate pans; beat them up with a little salt, and then put them again into separate earthen ves- sels rubbed with sweet oil. Have ready I a pot of boiling water over a fire ; put them in closely covered, and let the omelets steam till thoroughly done. Omelet a la Fermiere.— Break the num- ber of eggs you think necesary for the size of the omelet, beat them up witli chopped parsley, shalots, sorrel, pepper, and salt; fry it as usual; when done, put a piece of fried bread on it; roll the omelet round, and serve it. Omelet Fritters.—Make two or three thin omelets, adding a little sweet basil to the usual ingredients ; cut them into small pieces and roll them into the form of olives; when cold, dip them into batter, or enclose them in puff paste; fry, and serve them with fried parsley. Omelet a la Gend’arme.—Make a ragout with sorrel, Parmesan cheese grated, and bread crumbs; fry two omelets in the usual manner, between which put the above ragout; place them on a dish; cut some pieces of bread, fry them, dip the edge of each in some white of egg to make them stick, set them round the omelet, over which pour a little melted butter, strew bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese on it, and colour it in the oven or with a sala- mander. Omelet Glacee.*—Whip up some fresh eggs with a small quantity of salt, a little candied lemon peel, and pounded maca- roons ; beat them together well, and then fry them as usual, sprinkle the omelet with sugar, glaze with the salamander, and serve. Omelets en Hatereaux. — Make your omelets thin, with sweet herbs, oil instead of butter, pepper, and salt; cut them into pieces, between two of which place fried bread and anchovies cut in filets or slips ; serve them hot. Omelet a VItalienne* — Break your eggs as usual, add salt, pepper, shred parsley, cream, and olive-oil; beat these ingredients well, and make three or four omelets of them, thin, but not too dry ; cut some anchovies into thin slips, which lay on each of the omelets, placing the latter one on the other; cement them to- gether, and when cold, having beaten up two eggs, dip in the omelets, bread and fry them to a nice colour. Omelet a la Jardiniere.*—Make a rich ragout of all sorts of vegetables which may be in season, half of which put to a dozen eggs, beat them together, and fry your omelet as usual; when done, pour the remainder of the ragout over, and serve. Omelet au Naturel.*—Break eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of cold water, beat them up with a whisk ; in the mean time put some fresh butter into a frying pan, when it is quite molted and nearly boiling, put in the eggs, &c. with a skimmer; as it is frying, take up the edges, that they may