438 FOR POE. pot. Then, haying skimmed off all the butter from your gravy, clarify as much more hutter as will cover the meat an inch thick in the pot; cover the pot with wet paper, and set it in a cool place. Pork (with Suit).*—Take any joint of fresh killed pork you like, sprinkle it with coarse salt and spices; the next day spit, and roast it, hasting with its own gravy; take care that it is thoroughly done. Serve with whatever sauce or garnish you please. Some persons lard it with green sage before it is roasted. Pork (Fresh) Sauce *—Cut two or three good-sized onions into slices, and fry them lightly in oil; then add two spoonsful of cullis, a little broth, a few mushrooms, chopped, a clove of garlic, vinegar and spice. Let it boil half an hour, reduce to a proper consistence, skim and strain Pork Sausages.—Take two pounds of lean pork, three pounds of chine tat, free from sldn, some sage leaves, chopped fine, pounded cloves, pepper and salt; beat it fine, and either press it into hot pots, and roll it when it is used, or put it into BKIIIO. , Pork Sausages* — Take one third fat, and two thirds lean fresh pork, chop it well, hut not too fine; season with salt, pepper and spices, and put it into a pan, which set on hot ashes for half an hour ; clean the guts thoroughly, tie one end, and fill the above, gradually, pressing them gently that the meat may descend to the bottom ; divide, and tie them in what lengths you please. Pork Sausages.—Take porlc in which there is more fat than lean, mince it with parsley and young onions, and season with salt and fine spices; put the whole into the gut of a calf or pig, tie the sausages of a proper length, and broil them ; you may o-ive them any flavour you think proper, with truffles, shalots, &c. If with truffles, mince them with the meat according to the quantity you choose; if with shalots, you must use very little, for fear the taste should predominate too much. Flat sau- sages are made in the samo manner, with this difference, that the meat is put into a pig’s maw. Some persons add a glass of white wino to the sausage meat when mixing. . , _ , - Pork Sausages.—Take eight pounds of lean pork, free from gristle and skin; shred and chop it very fine, then chop four pounds of beef suet, and four pounds of pork fat, shred extremely fine, and a good handful of sage; spread the meat out upon a large dish, and shake sage over it; grate in two nutmegs, add a spoonful of salt, and about three spoonsful of sweet herbs, very finely chopped; shake over it the pork fat and the suet, then mix all well together; pot it close down with paper over it. It will be much better for letting it stand a day or two. AVhen you wish to make them up, roll them about the size of a sausage, (lip them in egg, and then roll them in flour ; have some hutter on the fire, and when very hot, put them in, shaking them about nearly the whole time, till they are done of a fine colour ; then serve them hot to table. If you choose you may put them into skins, taking care that they are very clean, filling them very gently with a funnel, other- wise they may stand a chance of being broken these are best for garnishing a turkey. I Pork Sausage to eat cold. — Season fat I and lean pork with salt, saltpetre, black ; pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub it into the meat; ihe sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalots, or garlic, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox gut, that has been scoured, salted, and well soaked, and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang it up to smoke, the same as a ham, first wrapping it in a fold or two of muslin. It must be high dried. Some persons eat it without boiling, others prefer it boiled. The skin should be tied in several places, so as to make each linkf about eight or nine inches long. Pork (Spring or Forehand oj ). I ake out the bone ; then sprinkle over the inside some salt, pepper, and sage, dried ; but first warm a little hutter to baste; then flour it, roll it up tightly and tie it; then roast ' Pork (Chine of).*—Cut this piece as square as possible, and leave the fat on it an inch thick, score it, and skewer it into proper form, roast it for two hours : serve it with tomata, piquante, or Robert SAUC6. j Pork (Chine of) roasted. —If parted down the hack bone, so as to have but one side, it will take two hours to roast before a good fire ; but if not parted it will take three hours. . , ,, ., , Chines are usually salted and boded. Pork (Chine of) stuffed.—lake a ch of pork that has hung four or finders, cut some holes in the lean, a” ‘ , with a little of the leaf fat, chopped ex-