BRE BRE 81 siul serve in a sauce-boat, either for game or fowls. Bread Sippets fried.—Cut a slice of bread a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into pieces about two inches square, and shape them to your fancy; make some very clean fat hot in a fryingpan, and fry the bread in it; when of a delicate light brown, take them up with a fish-slice, and drain them, turning them occasion- ally. BREAM, to dress.—After your bream is Scaled and drawn, notch the side of it, dip it in melted butter, and broil it; make a brown sauce with anchovies, capers, chives, and parsley, tossed up in a saucepan with a little butter; then put in a little fish broth, and thicken it with a cullis that is to be poured on the fish; but do not put the anchovies in till you are going- to serve; when it is broiled enough, serve it up with the aforesaid sauce. It may also be served with a white sauce. Bream, to stew.—Scale and well wash the bream, preserve the blood to stew it in, put to it two glasses or more of claret, a little ginger, the pulp of half a pound of prunes boiled, and strained into the stew; salt, vinegar, two anchovies, some roots of horseradish, stamped and strained, and a small bunch of sweet herbs ; let there be no more liquor than will just cover the fish, and other ingredients; when it is enough, make a sauce with butter, a little of the bream liquor, beat them up toge- ther, then dish your fish, pour the sauce upon it. Garnish with lemon and bar- berries, and serve it up. BRENTFORD Rolls.—Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonsful of yeast, and about a pint of milk; knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, ?«/ set them before the fire again to rise. When of a proper size, bake them for half an hour. BRE1 TONNE.*—Take twelve large onions, and cut each of them in half; be Particular in taking out the germs; cut diem into small pieces, and brown them over the fire; then put them into a stow- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little bay, garlic, thyme, salt, and pop- per, and let them cook over hot ashes, put ashes on the cover of your stewpan ; when 'ey are sufficiently done, add a little sugar, tittle vinegar, and reduco the whole to a glaze with a little loveapple sauce; add a large spoonful of blanc, then pass it through a bolting-cloth ; afterwards put it into a stewpan with some more blanc, and a quarter of a pound of butter, and let it simmer. Serve with a white haricot. BREWING.—Much indifferent beer is made in private families, even where there is no sparing of materials, for the mere want of system and economy in the ma- nagement. In the first place, attention should be paid to the state of the utensils used in the operation, and all necessary prepa- rations made the day before the act of brewing commences ; on which day, let water be heated in the copper that it may be well cleansed; also cleanse the casks, mash-tub, coolers, &c. When this business is despatched, fill the copper, and prepare all things in readiness for next morning. The allowance of malt for Strong Beer must be ten bushels to the hogsheacf. For Ale, nine bushels to the hogshead. 'The copper for making a hogshead of beer or ale should contain full seventy gal- lons, because the hogshead of beer measure holds sixty-three gallons, and there should be the surplus measure allowed for the hops, and the working them about to ad- vantage when the water boils, to prevent waste. With this copper four boilino-s will afford two hogsheads of strong beer or table ale, and two of table beer. 1 he malt should be ground four or five days before use, and be kept very clean. The necessary ingredients being ready, the water must be made to boil rapidly, which done, the copper fire must then be damped. I he malt having been previously put into the mash-tub (reserving half a bushel) as soon as the steam from the boilino- water begins to subside, the water is poured upon it to wet the malt, so as to render it of a consistence stiff enough to be mashed ; it should then remain covered over for a quarter of an hour, when more water is added and it is mashed as before; let it stand for a few minutes, and then add the whole quantity of water, accordingly as it is intended to have the beer more or less strong. Whilst the water is lading on, the mash must be kept stirring with a pole! Wlion well mashed, run the big end of the mash-oar through the middle of it to give it air, then put the spare half bushel of malt upon the mash ; and cover the tub over with sacks to keep the steam and spirit of the malt in,,and lot it remain two hours; then let it run into the receiver, G