BER 6S BIR BEEST Custards.—Put a pint of beest over the fire, with n little cinnamon and three bay leaves, till boiling hot. Pour it by degrees on a spoonful of flour, and the same of thick cream ready mixed up. Stir all exceedingly well together; sweeten to the palate, and bake it either in tins or cups. BEET Root.*—May be either baked or boiled; it will take from an hour and a half to three hours, according to the size of the root, to cook properly. Beet Root Fricassee*—First boil, and then slice it and put in a stewpan with a little butter, shred parsley, scallions, garlic, flour, vinegar, salt, and pepper; boil a quarter of an hour, and serve with white sauce. Beet Root pickled.—Boil the roots tender, peel, and cut them in what shape you please. Put them into ajar, and pour over them a hot pickle of vinegar, pepper, ginger, and sliced horseraddish. You may add capsicums and cayenne. Beet Root preserved*—The roots should be peeled and cut in thick slices, and placed in a pan under hot ashes for about five or six minutes, before you put them into a brine made of salt and water, and a quart of vinegar. Beet Root stewed.—Boil them tender i with the skin on; slice into a stewpan, with a little broth, some small onions, and a spoonful of vinegar; simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour; take off the skin just before you serve. BENJAMIN (Oil of). Beat six ounces of benjamin into powder, put it into oil of tartar and rose water, of each a pound. Then distil in an alembic, and put it by for use. BENTON Sauce.—Grate or scrape very fine, some horseradish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonsful of vinegar." Serve cold, witli roast beef, hot or cold. Bentos Tea-cakes.—Rub into a pound of flour six ounces of butter, and three spoonsful of yeast, and make into a paste with new milk; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. BERGAMOT Drops.—Mix the juice or four or five lemons, and some sifted sugar, with a wooden spoon; add to this twenty drops of essence of bergamot; mix it well in, and having stirred it over the fire three or four minutes flrop it about the size of a sixpence on writing-paper, and let them stand till cold. Bergamot Wafers.—Squeeze six lemons into a basin, nnd mix some sifted sugar, essence of bergamot, and the white of an egg with the juice ; heat them together till very white; if it becomes too thick, add the j uice of another lemon; spread your paste, and diy them as barberry wafers. Bergamot Water.—To the rinds of three bergamots, put a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water; draw off one gallon by the bain-marie, and sweeten with sugar. Bergamot Water.—Take three gills of syrup, the juice of six lemons, and when diluted sufficiently with water, add a tea- spoonful of essence of bergamot. Strain it through a fine sieve for use. Bergamot Water Ice.—Stir together the juice of three lemons, two gills of syrup, half a pint of water and half a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot; strain and freeze it. BETONY, Conserve of.—Take a pound of betony, three pounds of loaf sugar, beat them in a stone mortar; boil the sugar witli two quarts of betony water to the thickness of a syrup, then mix them, together by little and little, over a gentle fire, make it into a conserve, and keep it in glasses. Betony Flower Water.—Take betony flowers, sprinkle them with white wine or ■water, let them infuse for two days, then distil them in a bain-marie. BILBOCJUET Fritters.—Break five eggs into two handsful of flour, work them together with some milk, then put in some salt and work it again ; when well mixed, put in a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, the same of grated lemon peel, and half an ounce of candied citron cut very small: put on a stewpan, rub it over with butter, and put in the paste ; stew it gently over a stove, taking care that it does not stick to the pan. When sufficiently done, lav it in a dish, set on a stewpan with a large quantity of lard; when it is hot, cut out the paste in pieces the size of a finger, cut it across at each end, dip eacli into the lard and fry them, but not too much, as they '"’’H rise too high. Sift sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, sift over more simar, and serve. ° BIRCH Wine.—The season for procur- ing the liquor from the birch-trees is in the beginning of March, while the sap is rising, and before the leaves shoot out; for when the sap is come forward and the leaves appear, the juice, by boing long