CAP 120 CAP when it boils, skim it again; take cave that jrou have not more broth than will just cover the meat; then put in about a pint of white wine, whole pepper, cloves, and mace. About a quarter of an hour before it is finished, put in three an- chovies, carefully washed and boned; you may also, if you think proper, add parsley and sweet herbs. When it is sufficiently done, put some sippets into a dish, take the oysters out of the capon, put them into the broth, and pour it over the sippets, then place the capon in the middle, and squeeze either an orange or lemon over before you serve. Capon (to chouse a).—If it is young, his spurs are short and his legs smooth ; if a true capon, a fat vein on the side of his breast, the comb pale, and a thick belly and rump ; if fresh, he will have a close hard vent; if stale, a loose open vent. Capon with. Crayfish.—Stew a capon a la braise ; then make a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and the tails of crayfish ; toss it up with a little melted lard, moisten with a good deal of veal gravy, and thicken it with a cullis of crayfish; then take up your capon, let it drain, then put it in a dish, aud pour your ragout over it and serve. You must be careful not to let your ra- gout boil after you have put in your cray- fish cullis, for, if it should, it will turn; therefore only keep it over hot embers. Capon dressed the French Way.—Take a quart of white wine, season the capon with salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a few sha- lots ; and then put the capon in an earthen pan; you must take care it lias not room to shake ; it must be covered close, and done over a slow charcoal fire. Capon to fricassee.—Proceed the same as for chickens. See recipe. Capon au gros Sel.—After having drawn and trussed a capon, rub it over with lemon, and cover it with slices of bacon, and put it into a stewpan with some onions, carrots, the neck, the gizzard, and some pieces of veal; mix the whole together with some bouillon, and let it stew over a gentle fire, from about an hour and a half to two hours. Serve it with rock salt sprinkled over it, and a good gi'avy. Capon au gros Sel.—It is usually an old capon that is dressed in this way. Having drawn and trussed it, cover it with rashers of bacon to preserve its whiteness ; tie it up and put it into a saucepan, with a suffi- cient quantity of water. \V hen done, serve with a little of its broth, and some rock salt sprinkled over it. A capon is esteemed j a great delicacy; they are best about seven | or eight months old, and are almost always served roasted ; should they not be very i tender, they may be dressed en daube, like ;l a turkey. Capon, the Italian Fashion.—Boil some jfl rice in mutton broth till it is very thick, adding salt and sugar; then boil some Bo- logna sausages very tender, mince them very small, add some grated cheese, sugar, and cinnamon, mix the whole together; j then your capon being boiled or roasted, cut it up, and lay it on a dish with some rice, strew over it some of the sausage, cinnamon, grated cheese, and sugar, and lay on the yolks of raw eggs; thus make two or three layers, lay some eggs, butter, or marrow on the top of all, and set it over a chafing-dish of coals, or in a warm oven. Capon larded with Lemon.—Let your capon be first scalded, then take a little dust of oatmeal to make it look white ; then take a pint of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three dates, cut longwise, some currants parboiled, a little whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a nutmeg; thicken it with almonds, season with sugar, verjuice, and a little butter ; then lard the capon with thick lardons of bacon and preserved lemon, boil it; when done, place it in a deep dish, and pour the stock over it. | Garnish with preserved barberries and I sippets. Capon with Oysters.—Dress a capon a la I braise, then simmer some mushrooms and truffles in some veal gravy over a stove, and thicken it with a cullis of veal aud ham ; then give some oysters two or three i turns in their own liquor over the fire to blanch them, but do not let them boil; take them off, clean them well, and put them into the ragout you have prepared, set it over the fire to heat, but do not let it boil ; take up the capon, let it dram, then lay it in a dish, pour the ragout over, and serve it hot. Capon with Oysters and Chestnuts.—Boil twelve large chestnuts till they are soft, then peel them and put them into claret wine warmed with the same number of oysters parboiled ; spit the capon, and put these into the inside of the capon, and stop them in with butter, roast it before a quick fire, baste it with fresh butter, and when it begins to drip, preserve the grav v; then take half a pint of claret, put into it fifteen or twenty large chestnuts boiled, aud the same number of oysters, a piece of