liOI BLA 74 die; and garnish with dried or preserved fruit. Blanc-mange maybe put into any shaped moulds, and garnished and coloured ac- cording to fancy. Blanc-mange (Riband).—Put into a mould some white blanc-mange, about two inches deep; and when cold, put alter- nately cleared calves’ feet, red or Dutch blanc-mange. Blanc-mange ere Surprise.*—Take the crumb from a rasped pain a cafd without injuring the crust, which ice with powder sugar and orange-flower water ; place it a minute in the oven or stove to dry; fill the inside with blanc-mange, place it in a dish, and cover it with firm blanc-mange, in the form of a pyramid. BLOND (to clarify) for the Table.— Whip the whites of four eggs in a large pipkin, and put the blond to them; set the whole on the fire in a stewpan; con- tinue to whip till near boiling, when it will have become white. Then put it in the stove, with fire over and under. When quite clear, strain it through a sieve. Blond or Veal Gravy.—Put a few slices of lean ham into a thick stewpan, and lay over it some slices of lean veal; half cover the meat with stock; stew it over a brisk fire, taking care it does not burn ; when the broth is reduced, thrust a knife into the meat, that the gravy may run out, and then stew it more gently till brown, turn- ing the meat frequently. When of a dark red colour, moisten with hot stock, season with shred mushrooms, parsley and green onion ; when it has boiled an hour, skim, and strain it through a tammy for use, to clarify. BOAR, baked.—Season the leg of a wild boar well (having taken out the bone), lard it with bacon, seasoned with pepper, ginger, and nutmegs pounded, or lay it in soak two days, and parboil it, put it into a good thick crust; then strew over it some pepper, ginger, and nutmeg, all pounded, and some whole cloves, and bay leaves, slices of bacon, and a good quantity of butter; then cover with crust and bake it. BoAn’s Head.—Let it be well singed, and rubbed with a piece of brick, to take off the hair ; then scrape it with a knife, and clean it well: this done, bone it, cut out the two jaw-bones, and cut off the snout; slit it underneath, so that it may stick to the skin on the top, and take away the brain and tongue; then take some salt, and rub it into all parts of the flesh ; put the head together again, and wrap it up, and tie it in a napkin ; then put it into a large saucepan of hot water, with some leaf fat of a hog, two bay leaves, all sorts of sweet herbs, coriander, and ani- seed, salt, nutmeg, and cloves, pounded, rosemary and an onion; when it is half boiled, add to it a quart of wine, and keep it boiling for twelve hours. You may also boil the tongue in the same liquor; when it is ready, let it cool in its own liquor ; when cold, put it on a dish, and serve it cold, either whole or in slices. Boar (ITild) roasted.—Lard it with lar~ dons of bacon, without cutting oft' either head or feet; roast, and eat it with vine- gar and pepper, or orange, salt and pepper. BOOKINGS.—Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea-cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it stand before the fire for about an hour, to rise; then mix four eggs, well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same way. BOILING.—The operation of boiling meat, has been too commonly treated as a department of the culinary art—that re- quired no art at all. Hence, we may pos- sibly trace in the slovenly management of the pot, the well-known adage, that a leg of mutton boiled, is a leg of mutton spaded ; whilst with due deference to good old sayings, which generally have originated in truth and experience, we are to be num- bered among those who think a leg of mutton boiled, one of the most delectable plain dishes that belong to the old English school of unsophisticated cookery. But the joint must be judiciously chosen, suffi- ciently kept, and skilfully cooked—for simple as it may appear, there is no small skill required in the management of the ar- cana of the pot. Hard water is improper for boilingmeat, and where soft water is not to be procured, the cook cannot be expected to do justice to her reputation, even with the greatest attention to her business. So with pulse, a pease pudding is an abomination, if not boiled in soft water. It is now an established point among the best authorities, that the meat should be immersed in the pot upon the fire, whilst the water is cold, that it may become pro- gressively heated with the water, and thereby gradually boiled ; lor by not im- mersing it in the water until hot, as of old, the sudden transition from cold to beat not only rendered the meat dark in complexion, but tough.