FLO *254 FIS tliey aie well mixed set the saucepan over a moderate fire, holding a basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, to prevent the eggs from curdling. Do not boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Fish Sauce a la Craster.—Tliicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then add to it a pound of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of mace pounded, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, some savory, thyme, basil, knotted marjoram, a little parsley and sliced horse- radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer the whole gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and put it into bottles for use ; the proper way to use it is by putting some of it into the butter while melting. Fish Sauce (Excellent).—Put a pint of remarkably fine port wine into a tin sauce- pan, with a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut ketchup, twelve anchovies with the liquor belonging to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five slialots, some Cayenne pepper according to taste, three ounces of scraped horseradish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of made mustard ; let the whole boil gently till the rawness is taken off; then put it into small bottles for use. They must be corked very close, and sealed at the top. Fish Sauce (White).—Simmer to the quantity required, an anchovy, a glass of white wine, a bit of horseradish, two or three blades of mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon peel, and a quarter of a pint of water; strain it, put in two spoonsful of cream, a large bit of butter mixed well with some flour ; keep stirring it till it boils, add a little ketchup, squeeze in a little lemon juice when off the fire. More wine may be added if agreeable. Fish Soup.—Take pieces of different sorts offish, such as the salmon, skate, sole, &c.; sweat them till tender, with turnip, nion, celery, a clove of garlic, and a blade of mace ; then add some plain veal broth. Simmer the whole together for half an hour; then strain, and skim it free from fat; season with salt and Cayenne pepper, clear it with white of egg, and colour with a little saffron. It may be served to table with celery or rice in it. Fisii (Tureen of).—Take fresh-water fish of any kind, or dift'erent sorts together. If they be dressed en gras, stew them with a few slices of ham and veal, a little broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet--j herbs, two cloves, one of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, a few slices of bacon, pepper, and salt; when done, drain then from the j liquor, and put the fish in a tureen ; add a little cullis to their broth, skiin it, sift it. I in a sieve, and serve upon the fish : you may add what sorts of ragout you choose, i If it is to be maigre, braise the fish as.- such, and serve with their sauce, or withe peas or lentil cullis. Observe, that tench a must be scalded before they are dressed;.! but the scales must be left upon pike and perch until they are done, which willl give the meat a better colour and a finer i white. FLIP (to make a Quart of).—Put the j ale on the fire to warm, and beat up three ■ or four eggs, with four ounces of moist- sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg or: ginger, and a quartern of good old rum or brandy. When the ale nearly boils put it! into one pitcher, and the rum, eggs. See. into another; turn it from one to another; till it is as smooth as cream. FLOUNDERS (to choose). — They I should be thick and stiff, their eyes bright; and full, and must be dressed as fresh as possible, as they very soon become flabby! and bad. They are both a sea and river: fish; they are in season from January to March, and from July- to September. Flounders (Boiled).—Put on a stewpanrj with a sufficient quantity of water to cover : the flounders which are to be dressed: put in some vinegar and horseradish ; when the water boils put in the fish, having been first well cleaned, and their fins cut off; ! they must not boil too fast tor fear they should break ; when they are sufficiently t done, lay them on a fish-plate, the tails in the middle. Serve them with parsley and butter. Flounders a la Bonne Femme*—Butter a disb, and lay in it three or four flounders, with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, a glass of white wine or water, and grated bread over the whole ; cover your dish, and set it on a stove for ten minutes ; take it off and I serve. , Flounders (Broiled).* — Cleanse am wash as many flounders as you may re- quire, dry and rub them over with oil, and sprinkle salt and pepper on them, 3.r reeds across your gridiron, and place your fish on these; broil them over a slow fire.