BEA BEA 44 parsley, green onions, mushrooms, and savory, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter rolled in flour; moisten with stock and white w'ine; let it boil over a slow fire: then put in three artichoke bottoms, previously blanched in boiling water, and cut in small squares, with a quartern of young garden beans, the skins ofi, and parboiled; stew them, season with salt and pepper, take out the herbs, and serve the beans with the sauce thick. Beans with Parsnips.—Take two large parsnips, scrape them clean, and boil them in water. When tender take them up, scrape all the soft into a saucepan, add to them four spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter the size of a hen’s egg, chop them in a saucepan well ; and when they are quite thick, heap them up in the middle of the dish, and a ragout of beans all round. Beans a la Paulette*—First boil the beans and then put them into a stewpan with some butter, parsley chopped, green onions, and a little savory; shake them over the fire, add a little flour, a lump of sugar, and a little stock. When done put in the 3rolks of three eggs, beat up with a little milk. Beans (Puree of white).—Chop some onions, and fry them lightly in a little butter and flour, and moisten with a spoon- ful or two of broth. Let the onions be thoroughly done ; boil the beans in this for half an hour, season them well without any pepper, and strain them through a tammy. Reduce the puree over a brisk fire, take off the white scum, and before you serve refine it with a bit of fresh butter and two spoonsful of thick cream : garnish with fried bread. This may be madebrowm by frying onions a deep colour, and moistening them with espagnole or veal gravy. Bean Tansey.—Take two quarts of beans, blanch and beat them very fine in a mortar; season with pepper, salt, and mace ; then put in the yolks of six eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter, a pint of cream, half a pint of sack, and sweeten according to our taste. Soak four Naples biscuits in alf a pint of milk, mix them with the other ingredients, half a pint of the juice of spinach, with two or three sprigs of tansey beat with it. Butter a pan and bako it, then turn it on a dish, and stick it all over with candied citron and orange peel cut small. Garnish with Seville orange. Bean Tarts.—Make a puff paste, and put into your pattypans ; then boil green beans, blanch them, and put into the paste a layer of various sweetmeats, but no quinces, strewing alittle loaf sugar between each layer; put in some juice of lemon, also some marrow seasoned with salt, cloves, mace, nutmeg, candied lemon or orange peel; cover the patties, make a small hole at top, and put in a little lemon juice; then bake them, and when taken out of the oven, put in some white wine thickened wdth the yolk of an egg, and a bit of butter. To be eaten hot. Beans (French) en Allumette*—Wash, pick, and blanch your beans ; throw them into cold water; cut off the ends, and finish boiling them with a little brandy; drain, then dip in batter, and fry them of a light colour; whilst hot sprinkle sugar over and glaze them. Beans (French) in Black Butter.*—When the beans are scalded, drain them well; season them with salt and pepper, and hav- ing placed them in your dish, pour some black butter (see Black Butter) over them, and serve. Another way*—Ilavingwell drained the beans, colour some butter in a stewpan, and then toss up your beans in it over a large fire; season, and then place them in a dish for table; add a little vinegar. Beans (French) a la Bretonne*—Cut an onion or two into dice, and put them in a saucepan with some butter, over a [stove ; when they begin to brown add some espagnole, or a pinch of flour; as soon as the onions and flour are sufficiently brown, moisten them with a ladleful of good[gravy, season with salt and whole pepper ; re- duce this sauce, and having boiled the beans put them into it, and simmer all together. Beans (French) en Buisson*—Choose your beans as near of a size as you can ; split, wash, and boil them as usual; when done put them into cold water, and as soon as your beans are cold, drain them in a cullender, then dry them in a napkin ; toss them up with some oil, vinegar, salt, herbs, shred parsley, and shalot. Dress the beans in a croustade, in the same way as Asparagus en Croustade. Beans (French) to keep.*—Gather them as for daily use, and string them ; put them into bottles, if largo, cut them ; shake the bottles that the beans may fall close, and proceed as with Windsor beans. White Beans are done in the same way, but they must not be gathered until the shell has turned yellowish; these must be two hours