CIIE CHE 139 improves its flavour. There is no dis- puting with a variety of tastes. On some occasions an accidental flavour may be thus attained, which may be palatable ; but, on the authority of one of the best judges of these matters, we venture to say, that jnany a prime Stilton has been spoiled by such whimsical practices; and we are as- sured, ns well by the dairyman, clieese- i monger, and the first cooks, that that is the finest Stilton, which ripens without any artificial aid. North Wiltshire cheese has long ac- quired deserved celebrity, being rich, and of fine flavour; these are fit for the table at nine months, but, if carefully kept, they j are in perfection at twelve months. Double Gloucester is also a cheese in | great repute, and if made at a good dairy 1 is in prime order from nine to twelve i months. This makes an excellent Welsh i rabbit, and is capital for a stew, if care- i fully dressed in a cheese-toaster. . Single Gloucester, which, when success- J fully made, is of a fine delicate flavour, is i| generally used at the taverns for a Welsh ■{ rabbit. It is fit for the table in five or six :] months. j Derby cheese, however, when from the I test dairies, being of a delicate flavour, ;; and agreeable texture, is preferred to all ' Others, by the cognoscenti, for toasting. A Welsh rabbit, capitally cooked, of Derby- ! shire cheese, is served with eclat at the j best-appointed tables. I . Cheddar cheese is also in high esteem - at the best tables. It is in its prime from 1 nine to twelve months, j Dunlop cheese, made in the parish of j Dunlop, in Ayrshire, is in high esteem at ! the first Scottish tables, and is considered a handsome present to an English family; and due honours are paid to the Ayrshire dairies, as often ns it is set upon the Eng- lish board. The Great Unknown has cele- t prated the Dunlop cheese in his “ Heart of Mid Lothian.” !, • Of cream cheeses, there are various sorts, 1 and for which the English dairies are : famed. Amongst others, the Cottenham, .When in its prime, is of delicious flavour. !' .The Eath cream cheese is also delectable, and others, which are eaten equally new, u particularly those from a certain town in |! Bedfordshire, the name of which we do not recollect; these, and many more of excellent quality, are thin in form; the Stilton is also a cream cheese, though amongst the thickest that come from an English dairy. Of foreign cheese, the Parmesan, which being first made at Parma, in Italy, hence derives its name, still maintains pre-emi- nence over all others. The manufacture of this cheese was formerly confined to the dairies of Parma and Piacenza; and where, for a long period, the best wera made : of late, however, the district of Lodi is most celebrated for this cheese. The Gruyere from Switzerland, the Rochefort made of ewes’ milk, and the Neufcbatel from Prance, are cheeses served as delicacies upon an English table; but the true English Cheshire is held superior to all these, even by the learned gastrono- mists of Paris. In having the care of the cheese for the parlour, or for the family in general, says an anonymous writer, let a broad hanging shelf be hung, either in the wine or strong beer cellar, as neither rats nor mice can then get at the cheese. If you keep cream cheeses, put them between two plates or dishes to ripen, with some fresh leaves from the garden, and turn them every morning; and for all other cheeses have a rack or two made in the cellar, for it will be a means of improving them daily. A large space iu the rank should be left for the Cheshire, brickbat, and dolphin cheeses, &c. &c.; and nothing improves them more, or makes them go fur- ther, than putting three or four on each pipe or cask of wine, and brushing and turning them every week ; but if there are no casks of wine, put them on the tops of the strong beer casks. Cheese, even of an inferior quality, if thus managed, will be- come much richer, fine, and mellow. They must be turned alternately. The cheese should not be brought from the rack to the parlour, but at the moment it is wanted, and should be returned to the rack as soon as taken from table. Be careful to use those that are ripe and mel- low first. Cheeses of all sorts are known to be the best which have smooth thin coats, and those chosen which are the heaviest; for, although they be of the same size, yet they differ materially iu that point; as all fat,, good cheese is the heaviest. The round Dutch cheese, of the best quality, and not too salt, which is a com- mon failing with them, is not unfrequently used for toasting, and with success. This, and other cheeses, made of skim milk, are considered better for that purpose, and eat richer and more agreeably to the palate than even the best North Wiltshire, indu-