PEA PEA 403 tlie tin ; a little practice will be necessary before this operation can be performed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, &c. is used, replenish the pan and proceed as above directed, until you have as many pastilles as you may require. When cold and hard, remove them from the tins with your hand, and keep them in boxes in a dry place. You may, if you please, colour the pastilles, taking care to perfume them with a corresponding odour. Pastilles (Common).*—These are made in the same manner as the best sort, the difference consists in the materials (which are a quarter of a pound of powder to three quarters of a pound of sugar), and the perfumes are omitted. PASTILLAGES.*—Put two ounces of well-washed gum dragon into an earthen pan, with as much clear hot water as will cover it, lay a sheet of paper to keep out the dust, and let it stand twenty-four hours; then squeeze it through a coarse cloth into a marble mortar, and add to it as much starch and sugar (both in powder) as the gum water will contain ; pound these ingredients well, and strain them through a tammy into a pan, which keep covered with a damp cloth. This pastil- lage is used to form the ornamental parts of pastry and confectionary, such as tem- ples, baskets, &c., and may be tinged of the requisite shades, by mixing with it any of the colouring materials. PEACHES (Charlotte of').* — Take twenty tolerably ripe peaches, cut them in halves, and scald them in a light sy- rup; then drain and cut each half into three pieces (lengthwise) of equal thick- ness ; put these into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and half the quantity of warm butter; fry them lightly, and having prepared your Charlotte in the usual way, pour in the peaches and finish it (see Charlotte). When in the dish for table, cover it completely with the syrup reduced to la nappe, and serve immedi- ately. Pea cues in a Compote. — Cut your peaches in half, take out the stones, peel them, then set them on the fire in a sugar pan, with a sufficient quantity of thick clarified sugar to cover them, and let them simmer in this gently till done ; then take them out in a basin, put in the kernels to the sugar, and lot it. boil until tolerably thick; put in the juice of two or three lemons, and pour the syrup over the peaches; serve them in a deep hot dish. Peach Cream.—The peaches must be prepared the same as for making jelly, but instead of running it through a sieve, rub the whole through a tammy, and make use of less isinglass; put it all at once in the mould, which must be set in ice. Peach Fritters.*—Take a dozen small ripe peaches, pare and cut them in halves, soak them in half a glass of brandy, and two spoonsful of sugar, on which has been rubbed the rind of a lemon ; in two hours’ time take them out and dip them, one by one, into some good batter, and fry of a nice colour. Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to caramel, with which glaze the fritters, strewing over each, as it is done, some gros sucre. Nectarine and apricot fritters are made in the same manner. 1 each Jelly.—Cut ten or twelve peaches in halves, take out the stones and peel them ; set a pint of smooth clarified su- gar, diluted with water, on the fire; when it has boiled and been skimmed, put in the peaches; the kernels should be broken and put in with them ; let them boil very gently for ten minutes, then take out four or five of the halves, and lay them on a plate to be in readiness for garnishing the jelly; let the remainder of the peaches boil for ten minutes longer ; while they are boiling take three lemons, cut off the rind, squeeze the juice through a silk sieve in a basin, pass the liquor of the peaches into it, and then the isinglass, running it through the sieve two or three times, in order to mix it well; fill the mould half full of jelly, and when set, put m the peaches and a little more jelly, and when tbat is set, fill up the mould. ’ The reason why the lemons are peeled before they are squeezed for this jelly is, that the oil m the rind would rather spoil the flavour of the jelly, than be any addition. 1 each Marmalade.*—Choose the finest peaches, but tbey must not be too ripe ; peel them, take out the stones, and put them into a China basin; clarify a suffi- cient quantity of sugar to allow the fruit'to float in the syrup; boil this sugar to hssd ■ let it cool a little, then pour it over your fruit, and leave it; the next day drain away the syrup, and boil it twelve or fifteen times; then pour it again over the fruit; repeat this process every twenty- four hours for six days; each time adding- a little sugar, and boiling it longer, until at the ast it reaches the degree grand perld, then add the fruit, and"boil them together a few minutes; as soon as they i!i)2