BIS 67 BIS longer, and then mix thorn with the butter; stir in six ounces of currants, and the same of dried flour. When all is well mixed, drop it, the size of a shilling-, on paper, and bake in a quick oven. Take them off while hot. Biscuits (large) to cut in Pieces.*— Break ten eggs, put the whites in one, and the yolks in another vessel; add to the latter, a pound of powder sugar, a little lemon peel, orange flowers, and salt; mix these together well; whip the whites quite firm, and then put to them the yolks, lightly; sift over them three [quarters of a pound of dried flour, stirring all together carefully. Put this preparation into paper- cases, glaze and bake them in a slow oven for an hour. When cold, cut them into such forms as you may think proper, and ice them. You may vary the flavour and colour of these biscuits as you please, by mixing any colouring material with the icing, and by rubbing the fruit which they should be flavoured with, on the sugar, before it is crushed and mix with the egg. Biscuits (light).*—-Take ten eggs, put the yolks of five in a pan with a few Crisped orange flowers, the peel of a green lemon, both shred fine, and three quarters of a pound of fine sugar; beat the whole together till the sugar is dissolved and well mixed with the eggs. Beat the ten whites to a froth, and add to the sugar; stir in lightly, and by degrees, six ounces of flour, put them into buttered moulds, powdering them with fine sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Biscuits, Manqufy.*—Put into an earthen pan half a pound of powder sugar, three quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of pounded almonds, a little salt, and some orange- flower water, six yolks, and two whole eggs; beat up these ingredients well; whip tiie six whites, and mix them gradually with the above preparation ; make a paper «ase, butter and pour in it your biscuit Paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some almonds into either dice or slips, mix them with some powder sugar and white of • when the biscuit manque is about three ,, done’ dorez and cover it with this mature ; then replace it in the oven ami finish baking. As soon as it is done, • ™ it. out and cut it into whatever forms 3 our fancy may dictate. ^Biscuits, marbled*—Make twenty-four mnw a r°!!n<1 of Powder s»£ar, and three flour in’, ° ?.I10Und of dried and sifted ’ mto a biscuit paste, as directed for Spoon Biscuits; then beat four ounces of dissolved chocolate in an earthen pan, and add to it a third of the paste ; when it is well mixed, divide it in half, and to one halt mix a quarter of the biscuit paste, which will tinge that portion a lio-ht chocolate colour. After this, mix together some vegetable red and infusion of saffron to colour half the remaining paste orange • then divide that again, and mix the last quarter -with half the orange colour, thus your paste will be coloured with two shades of chocolate and two of orange. Make two paper cases, each eight inches square and three liio-h, pour into one of these a large spoonful of the chocolate paste, and when it has spread over the bottom of the case, pour in one of the orange-coloured, on which another of the chocolate, and so on, alternately, until the case is half full; then sprinkle it with flour, and put it into a slow oven for three quarters of an hour. Put the remainder of your biscuit paste (both colours) into a pan and stir them together with a spoon till the whole is veined, or clouded with the two colours; pour it into the other case sprinkle it with flour, and bake like the former; when quite cold, cut them into slices about two inches thick, half of which should he broken, and the other half cut iii pieces of an equal size, lay them on a baking-plate, and dry them in the oven. I bese are generally used to make the rocks’ in ornamental pastry, and may be coloured with the usual materials, according to your Biscuits, Marchpane.—Beat a pound of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moisten them with water, then put them and a pound of powder sugar, into a saucepan, over a clear but not fierce charcoal fire stirring constantly, till the paste leaves adhere together ; put it on a floured slab and work it well with your hands for some time, then roll sm'all pieces of it about three inches long and half the thickness of your little finger, join the ends ot each and make them into round rings lay them on a sieve in a dry warm place or two or three days. When wanted, mix some powder sugar, with the whites of eight eggs, and beat them with a wooden spoon in each hand ; add a cup of oraime- flowor water. Put your rings into this icing, and cover them completely; lav thorn on a sheet of paper and bake iii a slow oven until the icing sets and they begin o c lunge colour. Do not remove them trom the paper till cold. •g** ¥ 2