ORA 380 ORA Oranges to preserve in Jelly.—Cut a hole, about the size of a shilling, in the stalk-part of the orange, and with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear, without cutting the rind. Tie each orange separately in muslin, and let them lay for two days in spring water, changing the water twice a day; in the last, boil them tender on a slow fire. Take care that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they must be covered to the last. To each pound of fruit weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim it well, and let it stand to become cold ; then boil the fruit in the syrup for half an hour; if not clear, repeat this daily till they are done. Another way.—Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them ; do not break them, only press them gently with the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of one lemon, and boil to a strong syrup ; drain off the syrup from the juice, and turn each orange with the hole up- wards in the jar, pour the apple-jelly over it. The bits which were cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy-paper. Orange Pudding,—Put six ounces of fresh butter, and eight ounces of lump- sugar, pounded in a mortar ; then grate in the rind of a Seville orange; beat the whole well together, and, as you do it, add the whole of eight eggs, well beaten and strained ; scrape a hard apple, and mix with the other ingredients ; put paste at the bottom of the dish, put in the mixture, and then put over it crossbars of paste. Half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. Orange Pudding, New England Fashion. —Squeeze the juice of three Seville oranges on half a pound of loaf-sugar; take the yolks of ten eggs, well beaten ; melt half a pound of butter, thick ; mix these well together, with four ounces of blanched al- monds, well pounded, with a little orange- flower water, the peel of one of the oranges grated ; put a thin crust at the bottom of the dish. Oranges (pulped.)—’Either paro your oranges extremely thin, or rasp them ; cut a bole at the stalk, pulp them very clean, put them into a pot, more than cover them with spring water and a little salt; lay a cloth upon the top three times doubled, then upon that a trencher or cover; let them scald gently, changing the water five or six times in the scalding; put salt in the first water ; they must be so tender that a straw will pass through them; keep them in the last water till they can be taken out with the hands; put them on cloths, the mouths downwards, changing them to dry places ; when dry, put them into milk- warm syrup ; let them lie half an hour; just scald them; take them out, put them into a deep china dish, pour the syrup over, cover them with another dish, scald them once in two or three days for a fort- night ; the last time, boil them up quick till they look clear, turning them about as often as there is occasion; if any part looks white and thick, strew sugar over it in the boiling; when they are transparent, put them into pots ; pour the syrup over scalding hot; put brandy-paper, and tie on a bladder. For syrup, a pound of sugar to a pint of water. Oranges, (Roquilles of).* — Tbe peels taken from preserved oranges are thus called ; they are tied up and done with oranges ; the third day they are drained, and put in a stove to dry, taking care to move them frequentlv, to prevent their sticking together; when perfectly dry, put them into boxes. Orange Sauce.*—Put into a stewpan half a glass of stock, the same of gravy, a slice of ham, some small pieces of orange- peel, about half an ounce of butter rolled in flour, salt and pepper; simmer these over the fire till thick, and then add the juice of an orange. Orange Gravy Sauce.—Put half a pint of veal gravy into a saucepan, add to it half a dozen basil leaves, a small onion, and a roll of orange or lemon-peel, and let it boil for a few minutes, and strain it off. Put to the clear gravy, tbe juice of a Se- ville orange or lemon, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same quantity of pepper, and a glass of red wine; serve it hot; shalot and Cayenne may be added. Orange Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound and a half of sugar in a quart of very pure water ; take nine fine oranges and two le- in Otis ‘y wipe them well with a napkin, and having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze on them the juice of these fruits ; sweeten this juice with the above syrup, run the whole through a close hair sieve, and finish in the usual way. (See Sherbet.) Orange Shrub.*—Put ten pounds of crushed sugar to two gallons of water, and boil it until the sugar be dissolved; sum