COF COF 188 mix with three half pints of cream, or the same proportion for more or less, and three quarters of a pound of sugar; boil a moment together, and when cold, ice it. Coffee Ice a V Italienne*—Infuse a quarter ot a pound of roasted coffee in a pint of double cream, boiling hot, for two hours, closely covered; half whip the whites of nine eggs, and having strained the cream from the coffee, mix it with them, add half a pound of powder sugar, and put it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken ; then ice it in the usual way. Coffee au Jaime d'CEuf .*—Put into a basin the yolk of an egg, and some sugar ; then gently pour upon them one cup of coffee, carefully beat them together that they may be well mixed; add to them one cup of water; then put the whole into a bain-marie to warm, keeping it constantly stirring with a spoon to prevent its curd- ling; when it is warm, serve it out in cups. You may add to it if you please a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water. Coffee Jelly*—Roast a quarter of a pound of the best coffee, and having made an infusion of it, strain, and add to it two glasses of white brandy, and some lemon juice, and finish the jelly in the usual way. See Currant Jellyframboiste. Coffee Jelly.*-—Roast a quarter of a pound of coffee over a moderate fire to a fine yellow; take it from the fire, set aside the eighth part of it, and throw the rest into three glasses of nearly boiling water; cover it close, and let it cool. In the mean time, boil half a glass of water, and pour it over the small portion of coffee (which should be ground), adding a little isinglass; when perfectly clear, pour it to the other infusion, having previously strained it through a silk sieve ; filter the whole, and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, and half a glass of kirschwasser. Finish with ice, as usual. Coffeeillif/c.—Boil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter of an hour ; then put into it a shav- ing or two of isinglass, and clear it; lot it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. Coffee Parfait Amour.—For four bottles of brandy, take one pound of coffee in powder, a little salt, two cloves, a little cinnamon ; then mix all together for twelve hours before you distil it; two pounds of sugar, two bottles and half a pint of wa- ter, clarified with whites of eggs, filtered thrpugh the paper. Coffee Paste.—To half an ounce of gum' dragon, dissolved in a glass of water, put an ounce of coffee powder; sift it in a fine lawn sieve, mix it in a mortar, with as much sugar powder as is necessary to give it a proper consistence, and finish as all other pastes. Coffee Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, have about the quan- tity of two cups of coffee made with wa- ter, which put to your sugar, and mix well till you see it makes a royal paste, a little tliickish, that you may take it upon a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a far- thing ; place it in the stove with a slow fire till it is quite dry, and take it off from the paper. You make them another way, viz., with ground coffee, which you sift very fine through a sieve, then adding a little wa- ter, to bring it to the proper degree of liquidity, the same as the above. Coffee (to roast j*—Coffee should never be roasted but at the precise time of its being used, and then it should be watched with the greatest care, and made of a gold colour rather than a brown one ; above all, take care not to burn it, for a very few grains burnt will be sufficient to commu- nicate a bitter and rancid taste to several pounds of coffee. It is the best wav to roast it in a roaster (over a charcoal fire), which turns with the hand, as by that means it is not forgot, which often is the case when on a spit before the fire. Coffee Sugar*—Put a cup of strong coffee into a preserving-pan, and add to it a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to make it thick, put it on a moderate fire, stirring it constantly ; the moment it be- gins to bubble, take it off, and add two spoonsful of powder sugar ; stir it with a silver spoon, scraping the sugar from the sides of the pan. As it cools itwill thicken and become darker ; dry it in a stove, and then pass it through a fine sieve. Coffee Syrup.*—Take two pounds of ground coffee, infuse one of the pounds of coffee in two pints of water; then let it stand to settle ; when clear, pour it off; then with this liquor infuse the other pound of coffee ; boil half a pound of sugar to caramel height, colour it a deep red ; then put it into the coflee to dissolve; then pour it into a pipkin with another half pound of sugar; carefully close the lid of the pipkin, and let it simmer for eight or nine hours; then strain it, and