32B LEM LEM r i en considerably above tbe case; if the suiface be well dried, take them out, but if not let them remain a few minutes longer. Lemon Pickle.—Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, two ounces of horseradish sliced thin, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of nutmeg, ditto of Cayenne, and two ounces of flour of mustard; to these put two quarts of vinegar, put it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water; or set tbe jar on a hot- hearth till done. Set tbe jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. Lemon (to pickle).*—Take twelve le- mons, and rub them well with a piece of flannel; then rub them over with bay salt, and lay them on an earthen pan, turning them every day, for three days ; then slice an ounce of ginger, and salt it well, and let it lay in salt for three days; parboil twelve cloves of garlic, well salted, for three days. A small handful of mustard seed bruised, some Cayenne pepper, and one clove of garlic should be put to each lemon ; take your lemons out of the salt, squeeze them, put them into a jar with the spice, and cover them with the best white wine vinegar; stop them up close, and in a month’s time they will be fit for use. Lemon (to pickle).—They should be small, and with thick rinds; rub them with pieces of flannel, then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp ; fill the slits with salt, hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice a day in their own liquor, until tender ; make a sufficient quantity of pickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger, boil and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. Lemon Posset.—Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a china bowl, or small deep dish, that will hold a quart; sweeten it like syrup, add a little brand}'; boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange peel; take out the peel; when cold, put the cream into a teapot, pour it to the syrup, holding it high. Make it the day before it is wanted. Lemons (Preserved) Liquid and Dry.*— Choose your lemons ns near of a size as you can, with rather thick rinds ; pare, and put them in cold water, then into boiling- water over a moderate fire ; and when you t can insert a pin’s head with ease, throw them again into cold water. Boil some sugar to liss£, then put in tbe lemons, give them a few boils together, skim, and put them into a pan; tbe next day drain off the sugar, boil it several times, and then pour it over the lemons again ; the third 1 day boil the sugar to la nappe, adding fresh : i sugar to it; put the lemons in, cover the pan, give them one boil; do this for two days successively ; on the last, however, . j boil the sugar to perle, and when you have boiled the lemons, put them by in pots. Lemon Pudding.—Peel four lemons i thin ; boil them till they are tender; rub i them through a hair sieve, and preserve - the fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples i biscuits, a little grated nutmeg, and two i ounces of fresh butter, and pour over them i some boiling milk or cream in which a . stick of cinnamon has been boiled. IV hen cold, mix with them the pulp of the lemons, and eight eggs well beaten; sweeten ac- cording to taste, and if you choose, add . brandy. Edge a dish with good puff- paste, put in the mixture; garnish the top i with strings of paste, as for tartlets, and I bake it in a moderately heated oven. Lemon Pudding.—Put half a pound of ' j fresh butter with half a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan, and keep it stirring over the fire till it boils ; put it into an earthen pan, and grate the rind of a large lemon into it, and let it stand till cold ; beat eight eggs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon on them; mix the sugar and butter with them; put some rich puff paste at the bottom of a dish, then put in the preparation, 1 add bits of candied lemon peel when you have put in the preparation. Bake with great care. Lemons (Binds of) Marmalade. * — Having squeezed the juice from your lemons, cut out all the white part, and put the rinds into boiling water; as soon as they begin to soften, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water : then I lay them on a sieve to drain, and make them into marmalade, in the same manner I as apricots. Orange rinds are done this way. L Lemon Sauce*—Put two glasses of water into a saucepan, over the fire, and as soon as it boils, add shred parsley, salt; pepper, a piece of butter, and the juice of two lemons; make tbe whole quite hot, and in about five minutes the sauce will he ready for table. Lemon Sauce.—Pare a lemon, and cut