501 TUR. TUR a chopped shalot, reduce the sauce, and serve it poured over the .turkey. Turkey (Hashed).—Cut up the remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a stevvpan, with a glass of white wine, chopped par- sley, shalots, mushrooms, truffles, salt, and pepper, two spoonsful of cullis, and a little stock ; boil half an hour, and reduce to a thick sauce; when ready, add a squeeze of lemon ; skim off all the fat from the sauce, and serve all together. Turkey (Hashed).—Stir a piece of but- ter rolled in flour into some cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils up ; mince some cold roasted or boiled turkey, but not too small; put it into the sauce, add grated lemon peel, white pepper, pounded mace, a little mushroom ketchup or mush- room powder; simmer it up, and serve. Oysters may be added. Turkey Patties.—Mince some of the white part, mix it with grated lemon, nut- meg, salt, a very little white pepper, and some beclxamelle sauce, and fill the patties. Turkey with Oysters.— Truss a good white turkey for boiling, with the feet turned up like a fowl; tie some slices of fat bacon over the breast, boil it gently in braise, take it up a few minutes before wanted, in order to drain the water from it; take out the skewers and packthread which trussed it; set it on a large dish, and pour over it plenty of good white oyster sauce. Some stuffing should be put into the crop as directed for Turkey Roasted. Turkey Pie (Raised) with Tongue.— Bone a turkey, then take a boiled pickled tongue, pare off the skin, put it into the middle of the turkey, with a light, well- seasoned forcemeat, and some slices of sweetbread; sew it up, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes. Make a raised crust, lay some forcemeat at the bottom, then put in the turkey (the tur- key must be cold) with rashers of fat bacon tied over it; then put on the lid, ornament it, and set it in the oven to bake. When done, take off the lid, take out the bacon, glaze the breast lightly, add a cullis or truffle sauce, and serve. Turkey (Pulled).—Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting • then warm it in a little white gravy,°a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little shalot chopped fine, a squeeze of a lemon and a little flour and butter. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and serve in the middle of the dish, with the above all round. Turkey en RagoiU. — Have a ragout in bdchamelle sauce, of mushrooms, truf- fles, cocks’ combs, fat livers, and artichoke bottoms ; lay the turkey when boiled in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. Turkey (Roasted).—It may be either stuffed with sausage meat, or stuffing the same as for fillet of veal. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, take care that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part, as it frequently happens that the breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of paper should be put on the bone to pre- vent its scorching, while the other parts are roasting. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. A few bread crumbs, and a beaten egg should be added to the stuffing of sausage meat. Turkey a la Royale.—Make a mince with tongue, ham, mushrooms, and truffles, put it into a Spanish or brown sauce ; the tur- key being roasted, dish it, add a little lemon juice to the mince, which pour into the dish, and serve. Turkey (to souse).—Bone a good-sized turkey, and tie it up like a sturgeon; put into a large saucepan two quarts of vinegar, a quart of water, and some salt; make it boil, and then put in the turkey, and let it boil till tender; then take the saucepan from the fire ; as soon as it is cold, put the whole into a pan, and let it stand three weeks. Serve it with elder vinegar, and garnish with fennel. Turkey (to stew). — Take a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the turkey con- veniently, lay four skewers across at the bottom of the saucepan, and put in the turkey upon these; pour in a quart of good veal gravy, add a bunch of celery, cut into small pieces, and some beaten mace; let these stew as slowly as possible, till the gravy is more than half consumed; then put in a large piece of butter rolled in flour; when it is melted, put in a glass of Madeira or other white wine ; and if there is not a sufficient quantity of sauce, add a little strong veal gravy, thickened with butter; when it is tender take it up, dish it, and pour the sauce over; to which mav be added, if you think proper, pickled mush- rooms, or oysters. Turkey stuffed with Onions and pickled. Pork Scald two dozen of small white onions, and boil them in stock, with half a pound of pickled pork cut in thin slices, a bunch of parsley, green shalots, thyme, a bay leaf, two cloves, whole pepper, and salt; when done, drain them all, then