CRE CRE 201 and have ready in another stewpan a little flour, beat up with the yolks of six eggs ; stir it by degrees into the cream; strain it through a sieve, and put it in a dish for table, placing the dish in some hot water over the fire till the cream is set. Before serving, brown with a salamander. Cream (Italian).*—Put a gill of good fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonsful of powder sugar, and a little orange-flower water, into a pan, and whip them up to- gether ; and when the cream is sufficiently thick, put it into a deep dish, with plenty of powder sugar; set it on hot ashes, cover it, and lay hot ashes on the top, which must he renewed until the cream is done enough ; then let it cool, and serve it. Cream (fo keep').—Cream already skim- med, may be kept twenty-four hours, if I scalded without sugar; and by adding to it as much powdered lump sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good for two days, keeping in a cool place. Cream (Light).*•—Take a pint and a half of milk, some sugar, lemon peel, and orange-flower water ; boil the whole to- gether till reduced to half the quantity ; then take it off the fire, and let it cool; in the mean time, beat up a spoonful of flour with the yolks of six eggs (keeping the whites separate), and gradually mix the yolks with the cream; strain the cream through a sieve, and put the vessel which contains it in some boiling water over the fire ; when the cream is set, take the vessel out of the hot water, beat up the whites of your eggs to a froth, add to them some powdered sugar, and cover the cream with the whites of eggs, in the form of a dome ; then bake it under a lid that will admit fire at the top ; let the heat he moderate, and serve your cream of a fine colour. Cream (Loo/).—Take the crumb out of a good large round roll, rasped ; and soak the crust a little while in milk, sugar, and lemon; then drain, and fill it up with frangipane cream, and stop it up with pieces of bread; put a little into the bottom of the dish in which you serve, the roll npon it, and put cream all over, with pow- der sugar; bake it in a pretty hot oven to give it a fine brown colour. Cream d La Madeleine *—Bent up four eggs (whites and yolks together) with a pinch of flour, a little grated lemon peel, a small piece of pounded cinnamon, some bitter-almond biscuits pounded, half a spoonful of orange-flower water, a pint of cream, two ounces of sugar, and a little suit. Place a dish over some hot ashes. then pour in the ingredients well mixed together, and as soon as the cream thick- ens, glaze it, and serve. Cream (Maiden).—Take the whites of ten eggs, whip them to a froth ; put them into a saucepan, with milk, orange-flower water, and sugar. Set a plate over a stove, put in a little cinnamon, beat up your cream well, and pour it into the plate. Then brown it with a redhot shovel, and serve. Cream au Naturel.*—Take some fresh thin cream, and put it in a bowl, on ice, to cool it; add to it powder sugar, and serve it. Cream Pancakes. — Put the yolks of two eggs into half a pint of cream, with two ounces of sugar, and a little beaten cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg; mix the whole well together, and then fry them very carefully. Cream Putissiere.—Put a pint of cream and the same of milk on the fire, stirring constantly till it boils; then add two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and rind of a lemon ; when the cream is sufficiently fla- voured with the peel, beat up the yolks of eight eggs, mix them with the cream, and continue to stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon. As soon as it is very thick pour it into a sieve,- and press it through with the spoon, and then set it by for use. More eggs must be added if not thick enough for your purpose. Cream Putissiere.*—Put the yolks of six eggs and two spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, mix them together with a spa- tula ; add, a little at a time, three glasses of boiling cream and a grain of salt; put the whole on a moderate fire, stirring it round gently until it begins to stick to the spoon; then remove it for a short time, still stirring; as soon as it is of the proper consistence replace it on the fire, and con- tinue to stir it the same way for ten or twelve minutes. After this heat a quarter of a pound of the best fresh lmtter, keep stirring and skimming until it ceases to hiss, then leave it to colour lightly, and when it is sufficiently so, mix it with the cream, and pour it into a pan, in which it must be incorporated with whatever in- gredient may be desired. Cream Putissiere and Chocolate Cus- tard*—Throw three quarters of a pound of chocolate, and a clove of vanilla into twelve glasses of milk ; cover it, and in a quarter of an hour pass the milk through a napkin ; put a few spoonsful of the infu- sion to the chocolate which remains in the