FOW FOW 261 at the back, bone it all to the legs and wings, stuff' it with this, then sew it up, and give it its natural form ; braise it with slices of veal and ham, covered over with slices of bacon ; soak it about a quarter of an hour; then add a glass of white wine, a little broth, a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. When done, sift and skim the sauce ; add a little cullis, and serve it over the fowl. Fowl (Glased).-—-This is braised and glazed in the same way as Fold en Fri- : candeau, only with this difference, that } it is done without stuffing. Serve with - its own sauce, or any other, if you like if better. Fowl with its own Gravy.—Trass a i fowl the same as for boiling, lard it quite through with bacon, ham, and parsley; : put it in a pan with a little butter, two or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of j sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, carrots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a glass of white wine; stew them gentlj’- till they are done; skim and strain the sauce, and serve it with the fowl. Fowl (Guinea and Pea).—They eat much the same as pheasants. They should be dressed in the same manner, except when larded; then, of course, they require no bacon to be laid over them. Fowl (Hashed).—Cut it into pieces, and put it into some gravy with a little cream ketchup, grated lemon peel, andnut- meg, a few oysters and their liquor, a bit of butter mixed with flour; keep it stirring until the butter is melted, lay sippets in a dish, putin thehash and serve. Fowl as a Hedgehog.—Make a farce with the liver chopped, scraped bacon, parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt, and stuff a fowl with it; truss it the same ns for roasting, give it a few turns over the fire in butter ; then lard it close with slices of ham and bits of truffles, to stick pretty far out; roast it, basting often with good oil. Serve with consomme and cullis sauce, and a little juice of lemon. Fowl (Hodgepodge of).—Cut a fowl [ lnt0 quarters, and braise it with pickled 1 pork; make a good ragout witli small ’ om°ns, all sorts of roots cut differently, and the braised pork; intermix all well on the dish, and serve with a thick cullis 1 8auce. You may put to it any sort of 1 J"604 you choose, taking care that the | hardest kind is boiled proportionubly. Fowl (Legs of) upon Ashes.—Garnish ; stewpan with slices of veal, and a good slice of ham ; put the legs of fowls upon these, being first larded through and through,’ with well-seasoned lardons ; ;add a tea-spoonful of brandy, and cover the whole with slices of bacon, and over that, white paper; simmer both, under and over ; they will furnish sufficient sauce, which must be properly sifted ; but if not a sufficient quantity, add a little cullis, and one squeeze of lemon. Fowl (Legs oj ) garnished.—Braise four legs of fowls with a dozen of small onions, broth, a few slices of bacon, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, thyme, and bay leaves : when it is half done, add an eel cut in pieces, six crayfish, half a glass of white wine, pepper, and salt; let it braise slowly : when all is done, take the bottom of the braise, sift, and skim it very clean from fat; add a few spoonsful of cullis (two or three), aud reduce it to the consistence of a sauce ; intermix the fowl and other things properly on the dish, with the onions, and a few bits of fried bread ; pour the sauce over all, with a lemon squeeze. Fowl (Legs of) au Prince.—Soak a few anchovies and bits of fresh ham, cut as for larding, and when you think they have lost their saltness, drain them; lard as many legs of fowl as will make a good-sized dish, marinate them some time, with a glass of white wine, a lemon cut into slices, pepper, and salt; make a stuffing with butter, chopped parsley, shalots, and capers; put each leg into a bit of puff paste, together with the mari- nade, mixed with the stuffing ; bake them in a slow oven; and when done, take off the puff' paste and serve with a good sauce. Fowl (to marinate).—Take a large fowl, and with your finger raise the skin from the breastbone. Cut a venl sweetbread very small, a few oysters, a few mush- rooms, an anchovy, some pepper, a little nutmeg, some lemon peel, and a small portion of thyme. Chop all small, and mix it together with the yolk of an egg; stuff it in between the skin and the flesh, being very careful not to break the skin, and then fill the body of the fowl with oysters. Then lard the breast of the fowl with bacon; cover it with paper, and roast it. Make a good gravy. Garnish with lemon, and send it to table. Fowl (Moor), or Moor Game.—Moor fowl should bo treated the same as par- tridges; sometimes a bit of bread, fried brown in butter, is served under them.