ALM ALM well in tlie sugar, taking it off the fire, and add one or two whites of eggs ; pour it in paper large enough to contain the •whole, and cut it in slices for use as you think proper, when baked as usual. Almonds (Milk of) Fanchonnettes.*— Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet and one of bitter almonds, and when the paste is very fine, add to it three glasses of nearly boiling milk, then press this mixture through a napkin to draw out the milk. Put into a stewpan four yolks of eggs, three ounces of powder sugar, one of sifted flour, and a grain of salt, mix them well together, and add by degrees the almond milk, put this on a moderate fire, stirring it constantly. Line about thirty tartlet moulds with thin puff paste, and put on them a little of the above pre- paration, and bake them in a moderate oven. When properly done, take them out and let them cool. Mix with the whites of three hard eggs, four ounces of powder sugar, stir it well to soften the egg, and make it work easily ; put some of the remainder of your preparation on each of the fanchonnettes, and cover them lightly with the egg; put some white of egg on the blade of a large knife, and with a small one as quick as possible take off seven meringues about the size of a filbert, and arrange them in the form ot a crown on each funchonnette; when you have done five or six, cover them with powder sugar very equally, and then bake them in a cool oven. When of a reddish brown they are done and may be served. Almond Flummery.—Boil three ounces of hartshorn in two quarts ot spring wa- ter; let it simmer six or seven hours, till half the water is consumed; strain it through a sieve ; beat halt a pound ot al- monds very fine, with a quantity of orange- flower water ; mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugar with it; strain it with the rest of the jelly, stirring it till it is a little more than blood warm ; pour it into basins or cups, and stick in almonds cut small. Almond Frase.—Blanch n pound of Jor- dan almonds, and steep them in a pint ot cream, ten yolks, and four whites ot eggs ; take out the almonds and pound them fine in a marble mortar ; then mix them again in the cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated bread, and stir them all together; then put some fresh butter into the pan, let it bo hot and pour it in, stirring it in the pan till they are of a sufficient consistence; and when enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar over it, and serve it up. Almond Fritters.—Pound half a pound of sweet almonds, and six or eight bitter ones, orange flowers, chopped lemon peel, sugar in proportion, a handiul ot flour, and two or three whites of eggs ; pound all together sometime, adding a few drops of water, or more whites of eggs, to make it of a proper suppleness to roll into little balls; roll them in flour to fry as force- meat balls ; strew a little fine sugar powder upon them when ready to serve. Almonds (bitter) Fromage Bavarois of .* — Peel, wash, and drain, three ounces of sweet, and one ounce of hitter almonds, pound them to a paste, moistening with two spoonsful of water. Put them into an earthen pan, with two glasses of nearly boiling milk, in which eight ounces of sugar have been dissolved ; let this stand an hour, then strain it through a fine sieve, and put to it six drachms of isinglass lukewarm ; place the whole in ice, and when it begins to set, add some whipped cream; pour it into a mould which has been kept in ice, put it in ice again for half an hour, and then take the fromage from the mould. Almond Garlands.—lake half a pound of marchpane paste, the whites ot two or three e°*gs, some powdered cinnamon and a little "flour, knead them into a paste, and roll them into the form of sausages with your hand on the table, first strewing the table with almonds minced, but not very fine ; so that they may adhere to the sau- sages, which ought to be about the size ot vour finger ; then form them into rings or garlands of what size you please, fixing the"ends together with water: place them on paper, and bake them in a quick oven until they are of a clear brown colour. Almond (bitter) Petits Giiteaux royaux.* —Pound six drachms of bitter almonds. Strain them through a sieve, and mix them in an earthen vessel, with nearly the white of an e<rg, and six ounces ot sugar; stir these with a silver spoon for a few mi- nutes. Take three quarters of a pound of puff paste, roll it to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and cut out of it thirty oval cakes (two inches and a half long by- two and a quarter wide) pointed at the ends ; put on each a quarter of a spoonful of the almond glaze, and with the blade of a knife spread it equally oyer the surface for about the eighth of an inch, and then let. them stand for half an hour before you put them into the oven, which must be