164 CHI CIII slices of boiled bam, and lay them on a puff paste about half an inch thick; then season some pieces of chicken, and place them on the ham, with the yolks of some hard eggs, a few truffles and morels, cover these with more slices of ham, seasoned as before, put some gravy in, and a puff crust on the top, and bake it thoroughly. More gravy may be added when done. Chickens d la Pierrette.—Take half a dozen equal-sized chicken wings; lard two of them with bacon, two with truffles, or any kind of root you please, and the remaining two with ham; braise them with a few slices of hacon, some carrots, sweet herbs, consomme, and half a glass of white wine. When done, take them out, glaze three of them ; arrange them on a dish, with the sauce (skimmed, strained and properly reduced with a little cullis) under them. Chickens aux fines Herbes.1 Cut your chickens in half, and do them over the lire with a bit of butter, garlic, two shalots, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, all minced, a little flour, and a glass of white wine, the same of stock, salt and pepper, reduce it to a thick sauce ; take off the fat and serve. Chicken and Iiam potted—Season some pieces of chicken, with mace, cloves, and pepper, and bake them for about three hours in a close-covered pan with some water; then pound them quite small, moistening either with melted butter, or the liquor they were baked in. 1 ound also some ham, and put this with the chicken in alternate layers, in potting-pans, press them down tight, and cover them with butter. . Chicken Puffs.—Mince the breast of a chicken, some lean ham, half an anchovy, a little parsley, shalots, and lemon peel, season these with pepper, salt, Cayenne, and beaten mace; set them on the fire a few minutes, in a little bechamclle; roll out some puff paste thin, cut it into square pieces, and lay in each some of the above mixture; turn the paste over, and fry them in boiling lard, and serve them on <•* vr rump, and sidebones of a cold chicken, and pull all the white parts (without the skin) into shreds; toss them up in a little cream, flour, butter, pounded mace, pepper, salt, and lemon juice, stir them together till the butter is melted; then lay it in a dish place the rump in the middle, and the legs at each end, having previously seasoned and broiled them. Chickens en Redingotes* — Cut the chickens into quarters, take out all the bones; make a farce of fat livers, veal, parsley, pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and | the yolks of two or three eggs ; put some of of this upon each limb, put several of them together, cover them with the same, wrap them in paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take off the paper very care- i fully, so as not to remove the farce from j the chicken, place it on a hot dish, and i pour blond over it. Chickens a la Heine.—Cut all the meat from some cold roasted chickens, which may have been served before, and take out the breastbone; mince the meat, and make it into afarce with cream, suet, grated bacon, parsley, shalots, pepper, salt, nut- meg ; unite these with the yolks of four | eggs, stuff the chickens with this, as if: j they were whole; smooth them with a i a knife dipped in white of egg ; cover : them with bread crumbs, and bake them.. \ When of a nice brown colour, pour sauce i a la reine over, and serve. CmcKENsau Reveil.*—Stufftwochickens with the livers, parsley, scallions, two tarragon leaves, all chopped, and mixed to- • gether with butter, and having parboiled. them in a little fat or butter, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the 1 mean time, put the butter in which the: chickens were parboiled into a stewpan, with two carrots, two onions sliced, garlic, cloves, thyme, basil; stew, but do not let them be coloured ; put in a glass of white f wine, and another of stock, and stew them together for half an hour, and then strain it.° Then take some salad herbs, such as tarragon, pimpernel, chives, chervil, and cress, of each according to your taste, so as all together to make half a handful; chop them very small, and infuse them in the above sauce, on hot ashes for half an hour. Then strain it, press the herbs quite dry, and add to it a bit of butter, worked with flour, salt, and pepper, thicken, and serve it with the chickens. Chickens (Iloasted).—Put the chicken between slices of bacon, fasten the feet to the spit, and haste with its own gravy. Serve with cress round the dish, seasoned with salt and vinegar. The chicken, when covered with bacon, should be wrapped in buttered paper, and if required to be of a pale colour, kept on till roasted : it not, remove the paper about five minutes be- fore it is done, and finish it before a clear Chickens a la Romaine.*—Lard a fine - - —-—