VER 520 VEN minutes ; take them out, and when cold, cover with clarified butter. Ves iso's (Roasted).—To dress the haunch, chop oft' the shank, take off the skin, but not any of the fat; then fasten it on the spit. Make a paste of flour and water, roll it out to the shape of the venison ; lay it on thick upon the venisou, paper over that, and secure it well with packthread. Let it roast at a good distance from the fire, and baste it frequently. About a quarter of an hour before serving take off the paste, dredge it with flour, baste it with a bit of butter, and sprinkle a little salt over it; and when of a fine brown colour, take it up, serve it on a dish, with a good gravy under it, and garnish the bone with cut paper. Serve with hot port wine, or currant jelly, in a boat. A neck of venison should be covered with paste, and roasted in the same manner as the haunch, only that it does not require being so much done. Veinison Sauce.—Serve with venison, currant jelly by itself, or warmed with port wine, or port wine warmed by itself. Venison Semey.—Make, some paste with the crumb of a brown loaf grated very fine, a pint of white wine, two pounds of sugar, and the rind of an orange shred small, add a little nutmeg and salt; mix it well with the hand ; roll it out; wrap the venison completely in this paste, and bake it for an hour. Serve it with white w'ine, boiled up with sugar, and spice; strew powder sugar over it. Venison (to stew).—Cut the venison into slices, and put them into a stewpan, with a little claret, rosemary, six cloves, vinegar, sugar, and grated bread ; set these on a moderate fire to stew. When done, add grated nutmeg, and serve. Venison (Stewed).— Put into a stew’pan n pint of good gravy, a pint of red wine, a large spoonful of currant jelly; cut the venison into slices, and flour it, and put it into the stewpan with the ingredients, and let it simmer till tender; take up the venison ; thicken the sauce with a hit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the meat. Vf.nison (Shoulder of) stewed. — Take out the bone and beat it; have ready some slices of mutton fat, that have been soak- ed a few hours in port wine, and lay them about the venison; sprinkle a little pepper and allspice, in fine powder, over it, roll it up tight, and tie it. Put it into a stewpan that will just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy, not too strong, half a pint of port wine, some pepper, and allspice. Let it simmer very closely co- vered, and as slowly as possible, for four hours. When quite tender, take off the tape, lay the meat in a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with curraut-jelly sauce. The shoulder should not be dressed in this manner if very fat. V ERD d’Epinard, or Spinach Greening.— Wash a large handful of spinach and pound it in a mortar, squeeze the juice from if through a cloth into a stewpan ; stir it over the fire till it curdles, but be sure do not let it boil; pour it gently on to a silk sieve to drain the water off, and then rub the green through, which will then be fit for use. Parsley may be used the same way, but as it is of strong flavour, must only be used for such sauces and things a* require it. VERDE.—Infuse the rind of three lemons and four oranges in two quarts o' rum or brandy, for four-and-twenty hours, closely stopped; then squeeze the juice through a strainer; if the fruit is good, there will be half a pint, and if there is not so much, make it that; add to it i pound and a quarter of sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and keep stirring till all the sugar is dissolved ; when it is dissolved, stir in the peel and spirits, and then one pint of cold new milk; pass it through a bag till clear; bottle it. It will keep good for twelve months. VERJUICE.—Verjuice is the young, unripe, and sour grape; it is frequently used in French cookery, but very rarely put into English dishes. V eh juice.—Take some crab apples when the kernels turn black, lay them in a heap to sweat; then pick them from the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a mash, and press the juice through a bag of coarse hair cloth into a clean vessel; it will be fit for use in a month’s time. If intended for white pickles, distil it in a cold still. It may be put into sauces when lemon is wanting. Verjuice (Compote of).*—Choose the largest verjuice, split them open, and take out the seeds; throw the berries into cold water. Boil some water in a skillet, drain the fruit, and then put it into the skillet; when it rises to the surface, take the skil- let from the fire, cover it, and let it stand. When cold, drain, and mix the verjuice with a sufficient quantity of clarified su- gar; give it two or three boils together ; remove it from the fire, skim, and pour it into the comjMtier.