357 MUT MUS Ambergris is prepared in a similar manner; but being less powerful than the musk, four grains is tbe proportion to a quarter of a pound of sugar. MUSTARD (to make.)—Take some of tbe best Durham flour of mustard and mix it, by degrees, to a proper thickness with boiling water, rubbing it extremely smooth ; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar closely covered, and only put as much into the mustard-pot as will be used in a few days ; the mustard-pot should be daily wiped round the edges. Mustard (to make) for immediate Use.*■— Take some mustard, and, by degrees, mix it quite smooth with new milk, adding a little cream ; it is very soft, and not in the least bitter, thus made. Mustard Sauce.*—Put two glasses of stock, shalots shred small, salt and pepper, into a saucepan ; let them boil for half an hour, then add a spoonful of mustard ; stir i it in well, and use it when required. MUTTON (Observations on).—The pipe I that runs along the bone of the inside of a j chine of mutton, ought to be taken away; j and if it is to be kept any length of time, : the part close round the tail should be rubbed with sailt, previously cutting out the kernel. It is best for the butcher to take out the ! kernel in the fat on the thick part of the < leg, as that is the part most likely to be- come tainted. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, in order to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; therefore, if it is to be kept, it is best, should the weather be hot, to : rub it with a little salt. When intended for roasting, it should | hang as long as it will keep, the hind quarters particularly; but not so long as I to become tainted. Mutton for boiling ought not to hang long, as it will prevent its looking of a good colour. The greatest care should be taken to preserve, by paper, the fat of what is ! roasted. Mutton (a Basque of)—Put the caul of i a leg of veal into a copper dish the size I of a small punch-bowl. Chop the lean I part of a leg of mutton extremely small; take half its weight of beef marrow, the I crumb of a penny loaf, the rind of half a ' lemon, grated, half a pint of red wine, two anchovies, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix all together with the mutton, and fasten it 1 in the caul in the middle of the dish ; bake it in a quick oven, and when done turn the dish upside down, and turn the whole out. Pour over it a brown gravy garnish with pickles, and serve with sweet sauce. Mutton (Boiled) Turkish Fashion.—Cut the meat in slices, wash it in vinegar, put it in a saucepan with whole pepper, rice, and two or three onions; stew these very slowly, and skim very often ; when it is tender, take out the onions, and put sip- pets in the dish under the meat. Mutton (Boulettes of) fried.*—Mince some cold roasted mutton very small; take a fourth of its weight in sausage- meat, some crumb of bread soaked in milk, boiled potatoes, sweet herbs shred small, salt and pepper ; mix these together with the yolks of two or three eggs. Roll this farce into as many balls as you think proper, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry them. Serve with sauce piquante. Mutton (Breast of) broiled.*—Boil the mutton, and afterwards broil it, having first strewed it over with shred parsley and young onions, some salt, pepper, and grated bread-crumbs. Mutton (Breast of) en Carbonade *— Take out the brisket-bones, and cut a breast of mutton into oval-shaped pieces, braise them (adding some slices of ham to the usual braising materials) for three hours. When wanted for the table, drain and glaze them. Serve with spinach, en- dive, sorrel, or anything else. Mutton (Breast of) collared.—Take a breast of mutton, take off the skin, bone it, and roll it up in a collar, like a breast of veal. Put a quart of milk and a quarter of a pound of butter in the dripping-pan, and baste the meat with it well whilst it is roasting. Put some good gravy into the dish and into a boat, with some currant- jelly in another boat, and serve. Mutton (Breast of) d la Ste. Mene- hould.*—Braise a breast of mutton in the usual way ; when done, take it out, rub salt and pepper over it, dip it in melted butter, bread it thoroughly, and broil it over a slow fire, pass a salamander over it, and serve with a clear gravy. Mutton.—(Breast of) aux Petiles Ra- cines.*—Prepare and braise a breast of mutton, as directed for Carbonade, and when done, drain the pieces, dish them, en couronnes, in the centre of which pour the ragout of carrots. (See Petites Ra- cines. Mutton (Breast of) roasted witliWine.— Skin and bone a breast of mutton, then roll it up in a collar, like a breast of veal.