CHE 145 CHE be served rather thick. To make cheese soup en gras, instead of making use of soup maigre, "it should he made with very rich cabbage soup, not skimmed, and no butter must be used. Cheese Soup, Gras on Maigre.—Take about half a pound of bread crumbs, sift them in a cullender with about a quarter of a pound of Gruyere cheese, or Parmesan ; simmer this together in a stewpan with i some good broth (either Gras or Maigre), until the bread and cheese are well stewed; i make a liaison in another pan, with the yolks of three or four eggs, and the same number of spoonsful of broth : when ready to serve, mix this last with the first, witli- : out boiling. This soup must not be very clear nor thick; it must be made with broth without salt, as the cheese may salt it suf- ficiently. Cheese (Stewed).—Cut small into a stew- ; pan, Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, a ; quarter of a pound of each; then add a I gill of Lisbon wine, a table spoonful of water, and (if approved) a teaspoonful of mustard. Mix them over a fire till the ' cheese is dissolved ; then have ready a cheese plate, with a lighted lamp beneath, put the mixture in, and serve it up di- ! rectly. Send it with some fresh toasted i bread in a a toast-rack. Cheese (Stilton).—Take the night’s creamy and put it into the morning’s new milk, with the rennet; when the curd is produced j it must not he broken as is done with other 1 cheeses, hut take it out with a soil dish al- i' together, and place it in the sieve to drain n gradually, and as it drains, keep gradually :: pressing it till it becomes firm and dry; N then place it in a wooden hoop, and after- i Wards keep it dry on hoards, turning it fre- ! quently, with cloth hinders round it, which are to be tightened as occasion requires. In some dairies the cheese, after bein°- I taken out of the hoop, is hound tight round I with a cloth; this cloth should he changed j daily, until the cheese becomes firm enough to support itself; after the cloth is taken off, it must be rubbed every day all over, for two or three months, with a brush, and j if the weather is damp or moist, twice a day ; and even before the cloth is taken off, the top and bottom must ho -well rubbed every day. Cheese Toast.—Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, into a mass • spread it on fresh-made thin toast, and ftrate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. 1 Cheese Toasted, or an English Rabbit,— Cut a slice of bread, toast it, and soak it in red wine, put it before the fire ; cut some cheese in very thin slices, and rub some butter over the bottom of a plate, lay the cheese upon it, and pour in two or three spoonsful of white wine, and a little mus- tard ; cover it with another plate, and set it on a chafing dish of coals two or three minutes, then stir it till it is well mixed • when it is mixed enough, lay it upon the bread, and brown it with a salamander. Cheese Toasted, or a Scotch Rabbit. Toast a slice of bread on both sides, of a fine light brown colour, butter it, toast a slice of cheese on both sides, and serve it on the bread. Cheese Toasted, or a Welsh Rabbit. Take a slice of bread and toast it on both sides; toast a slice of cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, and with a hot sala- mander brown it, and rub some mustard over it. CHEESECAKES.*—Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk ; when turned drain the curd through a coarse sieve* gently break the curd, and rub in a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples biscuits grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white of one, half an ounce of almonds, half bitter and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, with two spoonsful of rose water, four ounces of currants ; put in the curd* and mix altogether. Cheesecakes.*—One quart of milk, and three dessert spoonsful of rice flour, six eggs, leave out three of the whites,' and sugar, currants to your taste. Cheesecakes.—Put some curd from the dairy into the mortar, with a bit of fresh butter, a little salt, the yolks of three e°*gs and the white of one; rasp the peel of a lemon over some sugar, and put this also into the mortar; add four macaroons, and a bit of sugar; pound the whole too-etber and when very fine, take it out of the mortar; butter any quantity of tartlet moulds, according to your company, spread some puff paste over the dresser, cut with a round cutter as many pieces as you have moulds, and put a spoonful of the prepara- tion to each ; bake next in a prettv hot oven and serve up very hot with pow- dered sugar. Sometimes you may o-laz0 them with the salamander. Cheesecakes.*—Take one gallon of milk and turn it, butdonot let the curd bo too Hard; put it. in a sieve to drain, mix in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of L