DUC 229 DUC tie same of veal gravj', or good consonant, Docks an Pore Douillet.*—Lnrd a couple a liver, two truffles, both cut small, salt of young ducks, and fill them with a farce and spices; let these stand over a slow fire made as follows : Chop up the meat of a to thicken ; put your ducks in, and finish fowl, the two livers of the ducks, two cookinsr them, taking' care that the sauce sausages, a little ham, and five or six only simmers the whole time. Ducks broiled with Mushrooms.—The in- side being taken out of a couple of ducks, turn the legs under the skin, and with a knife, divide them in two, by cutting them down the middle; beat them with a wooden spoon, dip them in some good clarified I butter, and lay them on the gridiron over a gentle charcoal fire. The inside must lay towards the fire till nearly done; then turn them on the other side; let them be of a nice brown colour; and whilst they are broiling, every now and then sprinkle pepper and salt over them; when done, lay them on the dish, and pour mushroom sauce over them. Duck with Olives.*—Prepare and dress your duck as in poele; take, the meat of the olives from the stone, like a cork- screw, being careful not to break it, that it may return to its proper form; throw them into hot water, and give them a boil, or put them into a saucepan with four spoonsful of espagnole, twice as much consomme, and a little pepper; reduce this to a third, over a fierce fire; put it to the duck, and keep it hot in the bain- marie. Ducks with Oysters.—Take wild ducks, truss them, make a ragout with veal sweet- breads, mushrooms, truffles, and oysters, seasoned with fine herbs and parsley; ■when it is almost done, farce the ducks ■with it; tie them up well, and roast them; ! sei7e tllem very hot, with a mushroom i cullis poured all over. Ducks with young Peas.— Well roast two ducks, then neatly cut them up all but the backbone, and put them in a 1 Stewpan with, young peas that have been . well stewed in plenty of cream sauce; } snake in a liaison of the yolks of two egg's, with a little cream, and serve tbem°in a tureen or a dish, with a good border of paste. Duck au Pare Douillet*—Take a duck, and put it into a stewpan just large enough fo hold it, with a bunch of parsley and fpeen onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, basil, some cloves, some corinn- ( e.r seeds, sliced onions, a carrot, a par- snips, a slice of butter, two glasses of stock, ami one glass of white wine; then reduce 1 over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, and serve it over the duck. truffles, previously boiled in red wine; mix these with the yolks of eggs, with here and there a little sliced lemon, and a pinch of coriander seed; fasten this in as usual, and roast them. Duck Pie.—Bone a full-grown duck, and bone also a fowl; wash them, season them witli pepper, salt, and a small quan- tity of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl withinside the duck, and into the fowl put a calf’s tongue, pickled red, boiled very tender, and peeled ; press the whole close ; the skins of the legs must be drawn inwards, that the body of the duck and fowl may be quite smooth. If you choose, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat; let it bake in a slow oven, either in a raised crust or pie-dish with a thick crust ornamented according to taste. Duck Pie.—Scald a couple of ducks, and make them very clean; cut off the feet, pinions, necks, and heads. Take out the gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick all clean, and scald them. Pick out the fat of the inside, lay a good puff paste crust all over the dish, season the ducks, both inside and out, with pepper and salt, and lay them in the dish with the giblets at each end, properly seasoned. Put in as much water as will nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, and let it be well baked. Duck Pie.—Prepare a couple of ducks the same as for roasting, and parboil them; then lard them with large lardons of bacon, and the lean of ham, seasoned with pepper, salt, spice, sweet herbs, and parsley, shred small; make your paste, roll it out an inch thick, raise your pie ; lay all over the bottom of it pounded bacon seasoned with salt, pepper, spices, sweet herbs, and parsley, shred fine; then lay in the ducks, and fill up the spaces with mutton cutlets, larded and seasoned, with the abovementioned sea- soning ; then strew some of the same seasoning over the ducks and cutlets, and lay thin slices of veal over the whole, and thin slices of bacon over the veal; then put in a piece of butter; lay the lid on the pie, and put it in the oven; let it stand four or five hours in the oven; while it is baking, make a ragoAt of mush- rooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, livers, and