396 PAR PAR Partridges (Broiled).*—Take five par- tridges, cut them in halves, trim and dip them in melted butter, and bread them twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner broil them. Serve them with a sauce a la Diable. Partridges with Cabbages.*—Take as many birds as you may require for a dish, and dress them as directed for pheasants, with cabbages. Partridges with Red Cabbage.—Take two red cabbages, and cut them in fine shreds, which thoroughly wash, and put them to stew, with a good piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt; if they begin to stick to the bottom of the stewpan, put in a small ladleful of stock, continuing to add this quantity of stock every time they appear dry, till done; then mix in two table-spoonsful of vinegar, and lay them neatly on the dish, and then upon this lay three partridges well stewed. Partridges a la Cendre* — Truss as many partridges as you choose, as if for roasting; take an equal number of sheets of white paper, on each of which lay about twenty slices of truffles, and on them a partridge ; fold over every one two more sheets of paper, turning the edges up, so that the birds may be entirely excluded from the air. Bury them completely in hot ashes, and in a quarter of an hour turn and leave them for the same space of time ; then take them from the papers, and serve with the truffles. Partridge au Charbon*— Take five young partridges, cut each in half, flatten and put in the claw, so as to resemble the bone of a chop; beat them lightly, and season with salt and pepper; dip each in melted butter, and roll them in minced truffles ; about a quarter of an hour before dinner broil them. Serve with a demi- glaze, in which is a little lemon juice. Partridge (Chartreuse of)*—Take a middling sized cabbage, cut it in half, and blanch it; in a few minutes take it out, drain and press out all the water; when cold, tie them up with two partridges, properly trussed and larded ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of bacon, on which place the cabbage, two servelas, six sausages, two carrots, two onions, season with pepper and salt; lay more slices over, and set it on a gentle fire. While it is cooking, cut some turnips, car- rots, and onions, into thin slices, as near of n size as you can, and put them with young French beans, or any other vegetable you may like, into some stock, stirring them constantly over the fire till they are dona, when drain them. Take a plain round mould, butter it well, and lay round the bottom of it the carrots, &c., properly ar- ranged, leaving the centre open, into which, put first the cabbage, and then the partridges, breasts downwards, the serve- las, sausages, and bacon, so that the mould be entirely filled; make it hot in a bain mariebefore it is turned out (which must be done with great care), place the mould in a slanting direction, that all fat may be drained off. Partridges (Cutlets of).*—Take the fil- lets of six partridges, and having removed the skin, beat them with the handle of the knife ; then take the pinion bones, scrape and thrust them into the ends of the fillets; melt a sufficient quantity of butter in a frying-pan, put in the fillets, sprinkle them with a little salt, and brown them lightly. Having drained the fillets, let the butter cool a little, and add to it the yolks of two eggs; dip your fillets in this, bread 'and place them on a gridiron, over hot ashes ; colour both sides; dish them en couronne, and serve with a clear reduced fumet, or sauce a la Diable. Partridges a la Daube Sicilienne.—Your birds being properly trussed, lard them with equal portions of bacon and ancho- vies, rolled in spices, but without salt; then put them into a braising pan, with a knuckle of veal, a quarter of a pound of butter, two glasses of brandy, a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the whole, a bundle of sweet herbs, three cloves, two of garlic, and two onions; set these on a slow fire for five or six hours; then take out the birds, put them into a tureen, strain the sauce, and pour it over them, stirring occasionally: as soon as you perceive it begins to form a jelly, mix a little butter with it, which will give it the appearance of marble. Partridges a VEspagnole*— Put a quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, a little pepper, and a slice of ham in a stewpan; add the partridges, and set them on a slow fire, that they may not take colour ; in a little while put to them six ladiesful of espagnole, half a bottle of white wine, a bay leaf, parsley, scallions, and a clove; when these have simmered three quarters of an hour, take out the birds, lay them in a dish, and having cleared away the fat, and reduced the sauce to half, strain it over and serve. Partridges a VEtouffade.* — a three partridges, properly prepared, lai