ART 32 ART nutmeg, cinnamon, galingal, cubebs, and cardamums, of each four drachms; put to them two pints of the juice of celen- dine, one pint of the juice of spearmint; balm juice, flowers of melilot, cowslip, rosemary, borage, bugloss, and mari- golds, of each one drachm; caraway, coriander, and fennel, of each four drachms; four quarts of sack, and two of white wine; the strongest brandy, angelica water, and rose water, of each a quart. Bruise the ■spices and seeds, and steep them with the herbs and flowers in their juices, waters, sack, wine, and brandy, all night. Next day distil it, and from these quantities may be drawn off two gallons. Sweeten it with sugarcandy. Keep it in a cool place in bottles. ARTICHOKES and Almonds, a me- lange.—Take half a pound of sweet al- monds blanched and beat fine, with two tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water ; then take a quart of cream, and boil it with a small quantity of cinnamon and mace; sweeten it with fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds ; stir them together, and strain it through a sieve. Let the cream cool, and thicken it with the yolks of six eggs; then garnish a deep dish, and lay paste at the bottom; then put in shred ar- tichoke bottoms, being first boiled; and upon these a little melted butter, shred citron, and candied orange ; repeating the same until the dish is nearly full, then pour in the cream, and bake it without a lid. When it is baked, grate sugar over it, and serve it hot. Half an hour will serve to bake it. Artichokes (i la Barigoule*—Cut the ends of the leaves from three artichokes, and blanch them for about twenty mi- nutes in boiling water; let them cool, take out the chokes and drain them ; then fry them in very hot butter. Put into a sauce- pan half a pound of grated bacon, as much butter and oil, chop some mushrooms very small, with a spoonful of shred shalots, the same of parsley, a little spice, salt and pepper ; do these all up together, let the mixture cool, and then, having drained the artichokes, fill them with it, tie them up and braise them for three quarters of an hour. Take off the string and place the artichokes in your dish, with a little Espagnole or Italienne. Artichokes a la Barigcule.*—Take two or three artichokes, according to the size of your dish, cut away the stalk and half the leaves; put them into a stewpan with p little stock or water, two spoonsful of good oil, a little salt and pepper, an onion, two roots, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil the whole until the sauce is nearly consumed; then fry the artichokes to make them crisp; next, put them in a baking, dish with the sauce that remains; take out the choke, and colour the leaves with a salamander or in a hot oven; serve with a sauce of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Artichokes Boiled.—Take six or eight young artichokes, cut and neatly trim them, throw them into cold water as you do them. Boil them for half an hour in boiling water, with a handful of salt, then drain, and place them on a dish: serve with melted butter. Artichoke Bottoms en Canape .*—Rub as many artichoke bottoms as you may re- quire with lemon juice, and boil them in water with butter, salt, and lemon or ver- juice ; when done, take them out and drain them. Garnish them with hard yolks of eggs, fine herbs minced, truffles boiled and cut very small, capers, gherkins, filets of anchovies, and carrots; place these with the artichoke bottoms, in the table- dish, seasoned with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar : to be served cold, and garnished with cresses. Artichoke Bottoms a, Vecarlate *—Turn and boil fourteen artichoke bottoms the same as for artichokes a la magnonnaise, then cut off one third from each of your artichokes. Then place them upright on the cut side two by two, in a dish in the form of a crown. Cut seven slices from beef or ox palates, cut these again into semicircles and ornament the outer ridges a dents de loup, or notch them. Place these semicircles between the artichoke bottoms. Then cut the remainder of the artichokes and the cuttings of the palates into dice, which must be tossed in a mag- nonnaise d la ravigotte. Pour this into the centre of the crown, or rather into the middle of the dish. You may also mask the artichoke bot- toms with a white magnonnaise, and serve slices of tongue in the centre of your crown. This entrcmct is usually served with oil, and with ravigotte chopped very fine. Or you may serve a good macedoine in the centre of the crown, or heads of as- paragus, or French beans <i la huile. Artichoke Bottoms in Jelly*—1 urn and boil ten artichoke bottoms the same as tor artichokes a la magnonnaise. hen they are cold, carefullv pare six of the finest, and cut the remaining four (with a root-