230 GOO GOO ■with salt, pepper, and spices; lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, the goose on them, with four carrots, four onions, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a knuckle of veal, cut in pieces ; and cover the whole •with slices of bacon ; add a little salt, and three ladiesful of broth ; let it simmer for two hours or more, according to the age of the bird. When done, take it out, and drain it; strain the liquor and reduce it to half; and having cleared oft’ the fat and glazed the goose, pour the sauce over it. Garnish your dish with onions, cabbages, or turnips, glazed, and a tomata sauce. Goose en Daube.*—This dish is seldom prepared but with an old goose; which, when singed and trussed, is larded with bacon seasoned with parsley, scallions, shalots, garlic, sage, thyme, basil (all chopped small), pepper, salt, and nutmeg’; do up some roasted chestnuts with some butter and a little sugar; stuff your goose with this, put the bird into a pan with slices of bacon under and over it, moisten it with broth or water, and white wine; put in also a knuckle of veal, cut in pieces ; four carrots, four onions (one stuck with three cloves) a parsnip, a bouquet, salt, pepper, and spices. Let it stand over a small lire three or four hours ; then take out the goose, skim the liquor, strain, and re- duce it, so that when cold it may he quite a jelly, which clarify with the white of an egg, and dish the goose with this jelly over and round it. Goose (Gravy of).* — Lay in a large saucepan some slices of onion, two slices of bacon, three or four beef steaks, a goose and a duck, cut up ; pour over these two quarts of boiling water, and close the saucepan as tight as possible. Let it stand over a gentle lire for four or five hours, then open it, and put those pieces to the bottom which had previously lain at the top ; add a little pepper and salt, close the vessel again, and set it on the hot ashes for an hour; at the end of that time, have ready some stone jars, in which place the pieces of goose ; pour over them a part of the liquor from them, through a sieve, and as the meat imbibes it, in about two hours pour in the remainder. It you wish this gravy to keep for two or three months, cover them with their own dripping, an inch in thickness. Goose (Green) Pie.—Bone two young green geese of a good size; careiully pre- pared and nicely singed. Wash them clean, and senson them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice; put one inside the other; pressing them as closely to- gether as possible, drawing the legs in- wards. Put plenty of butter over them, and bake them, either with or without crust, as you please; if the latter, a cover to the dish must lit close to keep in the steam. Goose (Green) roasted.-—After a green goose has been well trussed and singed, put into the inside a good bit of butter, mixed with pepper and salt; put it to roast, and baste it frequently with butter. When done, shake over it some flour and salt; when ready, take out the skewers, lay it on the dish with good gravy under it, and green sauce in a boat; it will take three quarters of an hour to roast. Goose (Legs and livings of ) a la Bay- onne.*■—Take the legs and wings from as many half-roasted fat geese as you may think' proper; bone them, and when cold, rub them with salt and saltpetre, and lay them regularly in a pan, with bay leaves, thyme, and sage between each layer; cover the pan close, and let them lay thus twenty-four hours; then take them out, dry, and finish cooking them over a slow fire, in their own fat. When sufficiently done, take them out, but keep the fat warm. As soon as the legs and wings are quite cold, place them closelv in ajar, leaving a space at the top of about three inches, which fill up with the warm fat. Do not tie the jar over until the whole is quite cold. Goose (Legs aiid IFings of) a la Bay- onne.*■—Take the legs and wings from five geese ; bone the latter and rub them and the wings with salt, pounded and mixed with half an ounce of saltpetre; having done this, place them in an earthen pan, and bay leaf, thyme, and basil, be- tween each layer; cover them with a cloth, and let them stand thus twenty-tour hours; after which, take them out, drain and simmer them in water; drain them) again. Take all the fat from the bodies of the geese, not excepting the inside tat, and prepare it in the same manner as hog s lard; and when the legs and wings are perfectly tender, and cold, put them as close as possible; pour in the fat when about three parts cold, and let them stand together twenty hours, then cover the pots closely with paper, and set them by in a dry cool place. Goose Legs a la Lyonnaise.*—Like three or four hind quarters of geese, try them lightly in their own fat; cut halt a dozen large onions into rings, take a part of the fat in which you have fried the a