GIN 278 GIN beaten ginger, in as much paste as will make a soft paste; lay it in cakes or tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. Gingerbread Nuts.—Take four pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, an ounce of carraway seeds, half an ounce of ginger pounded and sifted, six ounces of fresh butter, and two ounces of candied orange peel cut into small slices; then take a pound of treacle or honey, and a gill of cream ; make them warm together ; mix it, with all the ingredients, into a paste, and let it lay six hours; then roll it out, make it into nuts, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Ginger Cakes.—Put four pounds offlour upon the dresser; then take a copper sauce- pan, and break into it six eggs, and mix them well with a spoon ; add one pint of cream to them, and beat them well; put the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mixture is warm; put two pounds of butter into the cream and eggs, and one pound of sugar, and keep stirring it over a very slow fire, just to melt all the butter ; put in four ounces of pounded ginger, and as soon as all the butter is melted, pour it all into the middle of the flour ; mix it as well as you possibly can, till it becomes a fine paste ; then roll it out with flour under it on your dresser ; cut them to the size of the top of a tea-cup, a quarter of an inch in thickness; and before you put them into the oven (which should be very hot), place three papers under them. Ginger (Candied).—Put an ounce of ginger, gyated fine, and a pound of sifted sugar, into a preserving pan with as much water as will dissolve it. Stir them well together over a slow fire, till the sugar be- gins to boil; then add another pound, stir- ring constantly till it thickens. Take it from the fire, drop it on earthen dishes, set them in a warm place to dry, and they will be hard andbrittle and lookwhite. Ginger Drops.—Put two ounces of can- died orange, with a little sugar, into a mortar, and beat them to a paste ; then mix an ounce of powder of white ginger with a pound of loaf sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil all together to a candy, and drop it on paper in moderate- sized drops. Ginger (Essence of).—Put three ounces of fresh grated ginger, with one ounce ot thin cut lemon peel, into a quart of hi.indy; let it stand for ten days, shaking it up each day. Gincer Ice Cream.—Take four ounces j of preserved ginger, pound it, and put it a into a basin, with two gills of syrup, the 8 juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream ; them 1 freeze it. Ginger (Mock).—Take the largest cau- t liflowers you can procure, cut off all then flowers from the stalks, peel them, andii throw them into strong spring water and 11 salt for three days ; then drain them in a sieve pretty dry, and put them in a jar; .1 boil white wine vinegar with cloves, mace, . long pepper, and allspice, each half an j ounce, forty blades of garlic, a stick of a horseradish, cut in slices, a quarter of a . ounce of Cayenne pepper, a quarter of a; pound of yellow turmeric, and two ounces of: bay salt ; pour it boiling over the stalks,’, and cover it down close till the next day;; then boil it again, and repeat it twice; more; and when, it is cold, tie it down close.1. Ginger (Preserved).—Take some green: ginger, and with a sharp knife pare if. neatly ; and as it is pared, throw it into a pan of cold water to keep it white ; when i you have a sufficient quantity, boil it till 1 tender, changing the water three times ;; each time put it into cold water to take? out the heat or spirit of the ginger ; when. tender, throw it into cold water ; for seven; pounds of ginger, clarify eight pounds of ; refined sugar; when cold, drain the? ginger, and put it into an earthen pan,, with a sufficient quantity of the sugar,, cold, to cover it, and let it stand for a j couple of days ; then pour the syrup from; the ginger to the remainder of the sugar; ; boil it some time, and when cold, pour it on the ginger again, and set it by for three I days, at least. Then take the syrup from ; the ginger, boil it, and put it hot over the 1 ginger ; proceed in this manner till you find the sugar has entered the; ginger ; boiling the syrup and skimming off a the scum that rises each time, until the syrup becomes rich as well as the ginger, I If the syrup is put on hot at first, or if too rich, the ginger will shrink and not take the sugar. When green ginger cannot be procured, J take large races of Jamaica ginger, boiled • several times in water till tender, pared 1 neatly, and proceed the same as above. Ginger SonJJlee.—See Sovffi.ee. Ginger Sprigs.—Take three eggs, one pound of sugar, a pound of flour, a litOB H ginger, two spoonsful of rose water; mi* the whole into a paste, and cut into wb»t *j form you please. Ginger lime— Put ten gallons of water