CHE ciie 144 If the oven is liot, a quarter of an hour will he sufficient to bake them: serve them with pudding sauce. Cheese roasted (to come up after Dinner'). —Grate three ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter; beat the whole well in a mor- tar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces; lay the paste, as above, thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven covered with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. Cheese {Sage).—Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less, according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. Cheese {Sage) with Figures.— Provide two cheese-vats of the same size, and set the milk to turn in two vessels ; one part with rennet alone, and the other part with rennet and sage juice. These must be made as you would make two distinct cheeses, and put into the presses at the same time. When both these cheeses have stood in the presses for half an hour, take them out, and cut some square pieces, or long slips out of the plain cheese, and lay them by on a plate ; then cut the same number of pieces out of the sage cheese, of the same figure and size, and immedi- ately put the pieces of the sage cheese into the places that you cut in the plain cheese, and the pieces that you took out of the plain cheese into the places you cut in the sage cheese. The pieces should be cutout by a tin plate, made into figures of several shapes, by which the pieces can be cut out so exactly, that they will fit without any trouble. When you have done this, put the cheeses in the press again, and finish ].ilce other cheeses. The greatest care must be taken that the curd xs veiy equally broken, and that both cheeses are pressed ns equally as possible before the figures are cutout, or else, when they come to be pressed for the last time, the"figures will press unequally, and lose their shapes. The cheeses should not be made above two inches thick ; if they are thicker it will be more difficult to make the j figures regular. After they are made, they | must be frequently shifted and turned on the shelf, and often rubbed with a coarse • cloth. They will be fit to cut in about | eight months. Cheese Souffle.—Take three ounces of |j flour and two of butter, puttlxpn in a stew- I pan with one egg, mix them together with | nearly a pint of milk, and set it on the fire |i till it begins to boil; if too thick, add a little more milk ; then break in the yolks of five eggs, and a gill of thick cream; when these are well mixed, stir in gently about two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a very little pepper and salt; beat the whites of the eggs, with the ad- dition of three, and finish as for soffits. When this light batter is put in paper cases, it is called fondus aufromage. Cheese Soup.*—Take a soup-dish that will bear the fire, and spread over the bottom, of it Gruyere cheese cut small, with pieces of fresh butter strewed about it ; cover this with thin slices of bread, and lay cheese, butter, and bread alternately, until you have enough, taking care to finish with the cheese and butter; moisten these layers with stock, and let them simmer until it is burnt to the bot- tom, and the liquor is evaporated. When about to send it to table, add more stock, with a little pepper, and let the pottage be rather thick than otherwise. Cheese Soup en maigre, and en gras. *— If you wish to make it en maigre, prepare some soup maigre, taking care that there is a larger proportion of cabbage in your soup than of any other vegetable ; when it is made and strained through a sieve, season it with a little salt; take the dish in which you mean to serve it, and place it before the fire, then take half, or three quarters of a pound (according to the quantity of soup you intend making) of Gruyere cheese, grate one half of it, and cut the ( other half into small slices, put a little of the grated cheese with some small pieces of butter into the bottom of your dish, cover it with some small slices of bread, then put a layer of the sliced cheese, then a layer of sliced bread covered with grated cheese, then bread and small pieces of butter, and so continue till your dish is filled ; moisten the whole with some of your soup, then let it soak over a chafing- dish until all the soup is absorbed ; then di- lute it with the rest of your soup, and sea- son with pepper. This cheese soup should