224 DAM DEE 1 apples, green gooseberries, and quince cores, to a mash ; then strain them through a hair sieve. Take an equal quantity of this jelly and the former syrup, and boil them over a gentle fire together till they jelly; skim it well, and while it is hot, put it into glasses or pots. Damsons (to keep).—Put them in small stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles; set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when they are quite cold, fill up with spring water, and cover them closely. Damsons (to preserve) *—Put a quart of damsons, with half a pound of loaf sugar powdered fine, into a deep pot, with a layer of damsons; then strew in a handful of sugar, till you have put in what quan- tity you like ; tie them close down ; set them in an oven or in a pot of water over the fire; let them infuse till they are all melted ; let them stand till cold, then drain the juice from them, boil it up well, and strain it till clear; put it to-your dam- sons, let them stand till cold, put a brandy paper over them, and cover the pot with a wet bladder. Damson Fxidding.—Make a paste, and lay it in a basin ; then fill it with ripe or bottled damsons, cover it with paste, boil it, and when it is ready to serve, cut a piece out of the top, mix with the fruit sifted sugar to the palate, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Damson Pudding.—To a pint of cream or milk, add six eggs, four table-spoonsful of sifted flour, a little salt, a little pounded cinnamon, and whisk them well together. Then take some ripe or bottled damsons, rub them through a hair sieve, add to the mixture a sufficient quantity of the fine pulp, to make it, in substance, a little thicker than batter; sweeten it according to your taste, put it into a buttered basin, flour a cloth and tie over, let it boil for an hour and a quarter, and when you serve, turn it out of the hasin, and pour melted butter all over. Damson Tart.—Make a nice crust, line your dish, put in the fruit, and finish the same as for any other fruit pie. Damsons Whole, ( I bet)-—Take some of the largest and best damsons, and prick them at each end ; boil some syrup on a brisk fire, in a preserving-pan, for a quar- ter of an hour; then put your damsons in, and boil them for twenty minutes; put them in an earthen pan, cover them up with paper (as they boil, skim them well); . the next day strain the syrup from them, i and let it have a good boil; then put the , ■ damsons into pots, and, when cold, put i i some apple jelly over them. Damson 1 Vine.—Gather the damsons on a dry day, and bruise them. Put them into a stein, with a cock in it, and to every eight pounds of fruit, add a gallon of boil- ing water. In two days you may draw it off, and put it into a vessel, and to every gallon of the liquor, add two pounds and | a half of fine sugar. Fill up the vessel, and stop it up close. Keep it in a cool cellar for twelve months, then bottle it, putting a lump of sugar into each bottle. Cork them well, and it will be fit for use in two months after. DAR10LES.—Put half a quartern of flour upon a pie-board, with half a pound of butter, a little salt, and a glass of water; work the whole together, so as to make a firm paste, and then having oiled your dariole moulds, line them, thinly roiling the paste out; in order to do it quickly and properly, cut a piece of turnip nearly the size of the mould, flour it, turn a pro- per sized piece of paste over that, and then fit that into the mould, taking the precau- tion to let the air out, by pricking it with the point of a knife, press it even all over, cut the superfluous parts off; then use them accordingly, sometimes filling them with bread crumbs, and when baked, empty them, and fill with either sweets or savo- ries, sometimes make tops for them of puff- paste ; at other times, fill with your pre- paration and bake, as circumstances may suit. Dahioi.es for F.mincee of Mutton, &'c.— Line your moulds with plain paste in the same manner as the foregoing; flour them well inside, and fill with bread crumbs; bake them, and empty the bread out; have some some puff paste tops baked ready for them; mince the lean of part of a loin of mutton, put it into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, pepper and salt, parsley, and a little slialot finely chopped, put on the cover, and pass it gently on the fire a few minutes, add a small spoonful of cullis and a squeeze of a lemon, make it quite hot; skim oft' the fat and fill the darioles, put on covers or tops, and serve. Ihese sorts of darioles baked blank as the fore- going, are used for various eminces. DEER (to dress the UmhUs of).-—Take the kidneys of a deer, with the fat of the heart; season them with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg; first fry them, and after-