299 HER HER (boiled), some chestnuts roasted and blanched ; marrow and skirrets boiled : these ingredients being minced very small, geason them with pepper and salt, add the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole toge- ther, and put some of it in the place of the breast; fasten the skin, prick the back, and put it into a stew pan, with broth, marrow, artichoke, cut in pieces, chestnuts, and some of the forcemeat made into balls ; when sufficiently done, take it out, serve it with fried bread, and the sauce ; garnish the dish with slices of lemon, yolks of hard eggs, and chestnuts. HEDGEHOG (to make a).—Blanch two pounds of sweet almonds, beat them to a i paste in a morter, moistening occasionally i with canary and orange-flower water; beat I the yolks of twelve, and the whites of seven eggs with a pint of cream and some i powder-sugar; put this with the almond I paste and half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, set it over a stove and keep it j constantly stirring till sufficiently firm to be moulded into the shape of a hedgehog; 1 stick it full of blanched almonds, cut length- i wise, into slips, and place it in a dish; | beat up the yolks of four eggs, put them i to a pint of cream (sweetened to the taste); i Stir them over a slow fire till hot, then ■ pour it round the hedgehog and let it stand; i when cold, serve it. A good calf’s foot jelly may be poured | Tound, instead of the cream, if pre- j ferred. HERBS (to dry').— Gather marjoram, Savory, thyme, basil, parsley, &c. on a dry day, in the proper season, before they ! are in flower; divide them into small i bunches, and hang them on a line in a I room where there is a free current of air, hut no sun : in about three weeks, lay I them in rows, in boxes, and keep them in a dry place. Herb Pudding.—Wash, scald, and shred I Small, spinach, beet, parsley, and leeks, of each a handful; have ready a quart of groats (previously soaked in warm water for half an hour), cut a pound of hog’s lard and three onions into dice, mince three I Sage leaves ; mix all these ingredients, add a little salt; and tie them up close in a I cloth : whilst boiling, the string must be ’• loosened to allow it to swell. Herbs (Fine) Sauce of.*—Work up a piece of butter in some flour, melt it, ond then put to it the following herbs, ahred small:—parsley, scallions, tarragon, ! borage, garden-cress, chervil, &c.; boil them altogether for about a quarter of an hour; add a glass of stock, and serve it very hot. Herbs (Stewed).—Take some spinach, two handsful of parsley, and one handful of scallions; chop the two latter, and sprinkle them among the spinach; put them into a stewpan, with a little salt and a bit of butter; when it begins to heat, shake the pan, keeping it closely covered ; let it stand over a stove till done. Herbs (Sweet).—These in cookery are parsley, cliibbol, rocambole, winter sa- vory, thyme, bay leaf, basil, mint, borage, rosemary, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. The relishing herbs or Ravigotte, are tar- ragon, garden-cress, chervil, burnet, civet, and green mustard. Herbs a l’Italienne.* — Grate half a pound of bacon, and put it, with six spoonsful of oil, and a quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan ; add to it four dessert-spoonsful of mushrooms, shred small; give them a few turns over the fire. When done, put in two dessert- spoonsful of slialots, give them a turn or two; do the same with two spoonsful of parsley; then do the whole together; add salt, pepper, and spices; when done, put herbs into a pan, to be used when wanted. The herbs must all be shred small before they are put into the saucepan. Herb Pie.—Take a handful of spinach, double the quantity of parsley, picked, two lettuces, mustard, and cress, and the leaf of borage and white beet; wash, scald, and having drained and pressed out all the water, shred them very small; mix them together, season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; make a batter with a couple of eggs, a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and some flour; stir it well and pour it on the herbs in a deep dish; cover the whole with a crust, and bake. Herbs (Pottage of).*—Take some sor- rel, lettuce, leeks, and chervil; mince them very small, and do them up in a little fresh butter. When well amalga- mated and sufficiently done, moisten them with a proper quantity of stock or broth, and pour the whole on the bread, pre- pared as usual, in the soup tureen. Herbs (Common Pottage of).* — Take two lettuces, a handful of sorrel, the samo of chervil, and having washed them well, bruise and put them into a saucepan, with remains in the pot after broth has been strained ; set them on the fire, and when the herbs are tender, add broth, and let them stew till sufficiently done. Then soak bread as usual, lay it, covered with