354 MUS MUS which fU'O small, and boil them a few mi- nutes in some good cream sauce ; toast the crust of a rasped French roll, fill it with the mushrooms, turn it over on the dish, and pour the remainder over it. Mushrooms with crust.— Take some mushrooms, wasfi, but do not peel them; then put them with a few spoonsful of good oil into a fryingpan, and heat them for seven or eight minutes over a quick fire. Whilst they are cooking, add pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and shred parsley and shalots; then pour the whole over a fried crust, and serve immediately. Mushrooms (to dry).—Wipe them quite clean, and take out the brown, and pare off the skin of the large ones; lay them on paper, and put them in a cool oven to dry, keep them in paper hags in a very dry place. When wanted for use, simmer them in gravy, and they will swell, to nearly their former size; or you may- simmer them in their own liquor till it dries up into them, shaking the pan, then dry them on tin plates, with spice or not, as you think proper. Tie down with a bladder, and keep them in a dry place, or in paper. Mushrooms and Eggs*—Mince some morells or mushrooms very small, put them into astewpan with some rich gravy, and do them till properly flavoured and the gravy pretty thick, then pour on them the yolks of twelve eggs, and the whites of eight, season moderately, and beat them constantly whilst on the fire; serve them very hot. Mushrooms (Fricasseed).— Peel some mushrooms ; if they are large, cut them in pieces, wash them in cold water, until some vinegar, and blanch them ; afterwards dip them again into cold water, and wipe them dry. Then heat them over the fire, with a hit of butter rolled in flour, some salt, pepper, and a bunch of parsley; moisten with hot water or stock, and just before serving, thicken with the yolk of an e"", and half a tea spoonful of vinegar. Mushrooms (to keep).*—-Themushrooms for koepin"- should be of a moderate size ; lay them on hurdles, or string and hang them up in a dry place, where there is a free circulation of air, but no sun : if you wish to dry them by a quicker process, lay them in an oven ; should you have any ]arn-e ones, take oft'the tops and stems, and cut them in slices ; when perfectly ( ry, put them into bags, which koep m a dry open place, shaking them often. Anothor method of preserving mush- rooms is, by putting them either in oil, salt water, or vinegar, with garlic, pepper, and salt, and when they are wanted, soak them in warm water or milk. Mushrooms (to keep.)*—Choose your mushrooms very white, Ann, and fresh gathered, pick and wash them; then put them into a stewpan with some good fresh butter, or the best olive oil; set the pan on the fire, and leave them until they have given out all their water, and then until that water is half evaporated, they may then be taken from the fire and put into a pan; when cold, put them into bottles, which set in a bain-marie. Mushrooms (to keep) in Salt and IFofer.* .—Thoroughly clean them ; boil them ten- der in water and a little salt; dry them with a cloth ; make a strong brine ; when cold, put in the mushrooms; at the end of a fortnight change the brine ; put them into small bottles, and pour oil on the top. When you want to use them for ragout, &c., lay them first in warm water. Mushroom Ketchup.—Choose the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, sprinkle salt over them, and stir them now and then for three successive days. Then let them stand for twelve days, until there is a thick scum over them ; strain, and boil the liquor with Ja- maica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a few cloves, and some mustard-seed. AVlien cold, put it into bottles, and tie a bladder over die cork ; at the end of three months it should be boiled again, with fresh spices, and it mav then be kept for twelve months. MusnROOMS in a Marinade (tried.) Choose some good button mushrooms, peel tiiem, and put them for one day into a pickle of half vinegar and half water, salt, one clove of garlic, peppercorns, parsley, carrots, and onions ; have some good fresh lard on die fire, take the mushrooms out of the piclde, chop them in flour, and fiy them in the hot lard, laying them on paper as you do them ; serve them with a sharp sauce, made with three table-spoonsful of butter sauce, mixed with a litde glaze, and the juice of nearly half a lemon. Mushrooms Pickled. —Button mush- rooms should be rubbed with a bit of t in nel and salt, and from the larger ones take out the red insides ; when diev are hi act they will not do, being too old. fcpnnue a little salt over them, and put them into n stewpan, widi some mace and pepp » as the liquor comes ont, shake thfm ^ ‘ • and keep them over a gentle fire t l of it bo dried into diem again, then pm