OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. 13. 63 3500. A wet preparation of the lower half of the spinal cord after fracture of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. In its b. 7. recent state the dura mater was congested and firmly adherent to the vertebra, and the substance of the cord was very red. Private J. McS., 2d New York Cavalry, 35 ; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 28th October; died, I8th November, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon Edwin Bentley, U. S. Vols. See 3449, III. A. is. b. 6. 3185. Two lumbar vertebrae, with a battered conoidal ball embedded between the spinous and transverse processes of b. 8. the second, which encroached upon the canal aud induced fatal spinal meningitis. Corporal G. B., "D," 22d Pennsylvania: probably Petersburg; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 3d; died, 5th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. See class XX VII. B. is. d. 10ยง0. A wet preparation of a portion of the spinal cord and membranes opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra. A conoidal b. 9. ball passing from right to left fractured the spinous process of the fifth dorsal vertebra. The specimen has been longitudinally split at two places on its posterior surface, but exhibits in its present condition no abnormal condition except a possible thickening. In the recent state the membranes were somewhat injected and the substance of the cord appeared a little darkened. A large sac filled with clotted blood extended from the fifth cervical to the first lumbar vertebra averaging three inches in breadth. An abscess one inch in width, bound down by the deep fascia, extended from the last cervical to the first dorsal vertebra. Private J. N, "F," 1st Maryland, 26: Hatcher's Run, Va., 6th February; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 11th February; died, from secondary haemorrhage, 1st March, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. G. Smull. 4346. The last two cervical and first three dorsal vertebrae. A bullet fractured completely the left transverse process b. 10. of the seventh and partially those adjoining it. A partial fracture extends down the spinous process of the first dorsal. All the fractured extremities are carious, and a small deposit of callus has occurred on the first spinous process. Private D. A. C, "D," 4th New York Heavy Artillery, 17: Petersburg, 31st March ; admitted hospital, Washington, 4th April; died, 27th April, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon R. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols. 3850. The fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh dorsal vertebrae. All the processes of the sixth, except a portion of the left b. 11. transverse, have been carried away by a conoidal ball which passed from left to right and injured the posterior portion of the body of that bone. The inferior portion of the fifth and superior portion of the sixth spinous processes are also fractured. Private H. F. W., "H," 6th Michigan Cavalry, 48: wounded near Winchester, November; admitted hospital, paraplegic, Frederick, 25th December, 1864; died, 3d January, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. C. Shinier. 2204. The eighth and ninth dorsal vertebra. A small conoidal pistol ball is lodged in the body of the ninth vertebra, b. 12. which is much necrosed and through which ulceration has extended to the canal. A. W., (a political prisoner,) 33: wounded, 10th February; admitted hospital, Nashville, 3d March; died, from pneumonia, 15th March, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. P. Hachenburg. See class XXVII. B. is. d. 2579. Several lumbar vertebrae, with the right transverse processes fractured by a bullet which crushed the cord, b. 13. Private L. W. C, "G," 2d United States Sharpshooters (Volunteers): wounded, 23d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 29th May; died, 16th June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon G. L. Paneoast, U. S. Vols. 3530. The fifth, sixth, and seventh dorsal vertebrae, with a conoidal bullet, which impinged against the right transverse b. 14. process, destroying it and partially fracturing the spinous process and the body, against which it lodged. The marks of incipient caries are observable around the seats of fracture. Private W. H. C, " H," 14th New York Heavy Artillery, 20: wounded in Virginia; admitted hospital, Washington, 26th May, 1864 ; died the next day. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. is. d. 148. The third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, with the fourth fractured in the upper portion of the right side of its body, b. 15. Private A. H., 105th Pennsylvania: wounded, 2d July; admitted hospital, Washington; died, 3d August, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr.