A. Ji. 459 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. Private T. C, "G," 48th New York, 21: conoidal ball through axilla, below Fort Darling, Va., 9th May; admitted'hospital, New York, 23d; hfemorrhage controlled by pressure, 27th; haemorrhage recurred, 30th ; and again, when the subclavian was ligated in its third portion by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. F. Shrady, 31st May; two venous hemorrhages, 1st June; a vein of the axillary plexus tied by Acting Assistant Surgeon Shrady for a third haemorrhage, and death occurred three hours afterward, 2d June, 1864. Contributed by the operator. See classes XVIII. II. D.; XVIII. III. A. is. a.; XVIII. III. A. n. b. 2812. A wet preparation of the right subclavian, twelve days after its ligation in the third part The specimen shows b. 5. the formation of a partial clot. Bits of wood are introduced in the vertebral, internal mammary, thyroid axis and superior intercostal arteries. Subject was of a peculiar haemorvhagic diathesis and suffered a severe cough. Sergeant H. B., " D," 12th New Hampshire, 21: wounded in the right shoulder, Cold Harbor, 3d Juno ; admitted hospital, Washington, ICth; ligated for secondary haemorrhage by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols., 17th; ligature gave way and died, 29th June, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 2568. A wet preparation showing ulceration of the right subclavian following ligation, and also the cicatrix embracing b. 6. the nerves and vessels on the face of the stump. The specimen shows the main artery completely occluded, although secondary haemorrhage frequently occurred; a coagulum in the subclavian on the cardiac side of the point of ligation, that on the distal side appearing to have been destroyed by ulceration; a complete coagulum of the vein. Two bits of wood have been introduced at the point of ulceration Private S. D., "C,"9th Illinois Cavalry: arm fractured and amputated in the upper third, Tupelo, Miss., 14th July; admitted hospital, Memphis, 25th July; gangrene in stump, 1st August; haemorrhage from stump, 8th and 10th; subclavian ligated by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. N. Sharp, 10th ; haemorrhage from stump arrested by solution persulphate of iron, 17th and 23d; ligature came away, 25th; haemorrhage from subciaviau and death, 30th August, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. M. Dorran, U. S. Vols. See classes XVIII. III. A. B. a.; XXIII. A. B. 2609. A wet preparation of a traumatic aneurism of the right axillary artery, with the subclavian ligated in the third part, b. 7. Sergeant H. G., "K," 5th U. S. Cavalry: Millet through right axilla, Beverly Ford, Va., 9th June; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, with aneurism, 23d June; secondary haemorrhage, 16th August; subclavian ligated by Medical Inspector K. H. Coolidge, U. S. Army ; [a nerve lying directly under the artery was accidentally included in the ligature, although, in the opinion of the assistants at the time of the operation, nothing but the artery was embraced;] died six hours afterward, 17th August, 1863. See Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, Vol. XLVII., p. 128. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Isaac Norris, jr. See 1448, XXVII. B. B. c. 45. 4339. A wet preparation, in two portions, of parts of the aorta, innominata, left common carotid, subciaviau and b. 8. axillary arteries, the last of which has been ligated near its origin for secondary haemorrhage following false aneurism after gunshot. About two inches of the artery had nearly disappeared, and around the deficiency a cavity with several ounces of organized clot existed. Private G. R. P., 3d Maine, 21: shoulder wounded by buckshot and left arm amputated in the middle third about 15th May; admitted hospital, with a fluctuating tumor near the lower angle of scapula, New York Harbor, 8th June; haemorrhage from the anterior wound, below the outer third of clavicle, 1st and 20th July; axillary ligated near its origin for haemorrhage, 28th July; died from secondary haemorrhage, 5th August, 1862. The ligature could not be found after death. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon S. Teats. See 1827, VI. A. B. f. 28; 4338, VI. C. 1. 2674. A wet preparation of the axillary, showing nearly half of the calibre of the vessel cut away by a musket ball in b. 9. its upper portion, from which injury death did hot occur for nine days. A piece of cloth lodged in the artery is supposed to have assisted in restraining the haemorrhage. Private W. II., "H,"' 15th U. S. Infantry, 19: accidentally, Mobile, Uth January; lost blood to syncope; secondary haemorrhage, 20th-21st; ligated by Surgeon Coale, U. S. Vols., 22d January, 1866; died a few minutes afterward. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. J. Phillips, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B'. B'. 3630. A wet preparation of the axillary artery, showing great loss of substance by sloughing after gunshot, b. 10. Private J. L., "E," 25th Massachusetts: conoidal ball through axilla, Petersburg, 10th August; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 17th; slight secondary haemorrhage, controlled by pressure, 27th; severe haemorrhage, controlled by pressure on the subclavian, 29th August; an immense aneurism, formed by the sloughing of the coats, opened aud ligatures placed on both sides of the injury, 17th September; arm amputated at the shoulder joint for mortification, and died, 19th September, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon I. I. Hayes, U. S. Vols.