XIII. 2G6 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 3648. A portion of the shaft of the right femur, fractured Dearly transversely in the middle, third by an unknown b. 42. missile in an explosion of ordnance stores. The necrosed bone is nearly separated by well-marked lines. A trivial amount of callus is observed. E. B., civilian, (negro,) 50: injured, 15th August; died from exhaustion, West Philadelphia, 12th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. Louis Eakin. 2140. A portion of the shaft of the femur, perforated in the middle third, with comminution. The specimen shows b. 43. strongly marked lines of separation in the effort to throw off the necrosed bone, which is the more notable as death is said to have followed the injury within a fortnight. Private B. B. S., "C," 10th Kentucky: Chickamauga, 20th September, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vols. 1338. The greater portion of the shaft of the left femur, transversely fractured in the middle third, with splintering and b. 44. comminution, by a conoidal' ball which, partly split, is attached to the specimen. The bone is necrosed at the point of fracture, and is eroded by suppuration throughout the greater part of the specimen. This man fell without experiencing pain, and was admitted hospital with no external wound of the thigh. The fracture was detected and attributed to a spent round shot. After death a closed wound of entrance was found near the knee, the tortuous track of which had prevented the escape of pus. Private J. McL., " B," 5th Wisconsin, 21: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th May; the knee became secondarily involved, with great accumulation of pus; died from exhaustion, 10th June, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See classes XIV. A. B. c. ; XXVII. B. B. d. 2717. The middle third of the left femur, obliquely and longitudinally fractured by gunshot. Marks of necrosis border b. 45. the fracture. Private F. A. L., "B," 2d New Hampshire, 24: Cold Harbor, 3d^ June; died of pyaemia, in Washington, 29th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. S. Herriman. 3313. A portion of the shaft of the left femur, showing a double oblique comminuted fracture in the middle third, with b. 46. the fragments eroded. Private W. C, "A," 13th Tennessee Cavalry: Fort Pillow, Tenn., 12th April; admitted hospital, Mound City, III, 14th April; died from pyaemia, 8th May, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon H. Wardner, U. S. Vols. 2686. The middle third of the left femur, with an oblique fracture, comminuted without displacement at the point of b. 47. impact. The periosteum was denuded for nine inches. The patient was highly tuberculous. Private A. J. T., " B," 5th New Hampshire, 36: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 11th; died from exhaustion after secondary haemorrhage, 25th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 39©9. The shaft of the right femur, comminuted, with loss of substance in the middle third, by a conoidal ball, b. 48. Private B. D. B , "I," 14th New Jersey : Monocacy Junction, Md., 9th July ; admitted hospital, Frederick, 12th; died, 15th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. M. Paullin. 2128. The lower half of the right femur, obliquely fractured, with little comminution, by shell. A border of dead bone b. 49. is in process of exfoliation from the upper fragment, beyond which a slight deposit of callus has been made, which, in its turn, is suffering from the suppurative action. The patient died exhausted three or four weeks after receiving the injury. Contributed by Surgeon I. Moses, U S. Vols. 3526. The greater portion of the left femur. A conoidal ball struck the anterior aspect near the junction of the upper b. 50. thirds and produced an oblique fracture of four inches downward. On the posterior surface a fissure extends from the fracture to the trochanter minor, seven and a half inches. A small fragment is chipped at the point of impact without further comminution. Private G. L., "K,"22d Massachusetts, 29: Spottsylvania, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 14th; died from exhaustion, apparently induced by transportation, 22d May, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army.