A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 17 Corporal C. C, "G," 123d New York, 24: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 15th June; died, 2d October, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Stillwell. Sec 1725, I. C. B. b. 14. ยง65. A segment of cranium fractured, with depression of fragments, by a musket ball, at the junction of the sagittal b. 29. and lambdoid sutures. The opening in the outer table is one inch square. One-half the fractured surface has been removed; the remaining fragments, with the corresponding portion of the inner table, arc depressed one fourth inch. The injury to the inner table is a little more extensive, and one small triangular fragment is depressed one-half inch at its free edge. The fractured surfaces are slightly necrosed. Private D P., "K," 10th New York: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Chester, Penua., 21st; died, 31st December, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon J. L. LeConte, U. S. Vols. 3*01. A section of the left parietal bone, perforated near the protuberance by a musket ball, which caused fracture with b. 30. depression of both tables. The fractured portion externally measures one inch in diameter; internally one and one-fourth inches. More than one-half of the fractured surface is removed; the remainder, which is composed of the outer table only, is depressed one-fourth inch Private H. G., "B," 53d North Carolina, (Rebel,) 30: Gettysburg, 1st July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 6th; hernia cerebri, disorganization external portion left hemisphere, death, 7th July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Bartholf. 3413. The vault of the cranium, perforated at the centre of the frontal bone by a musket ball, which caused fracture b. 31. with depression of the inner table and extensive Assuring. The opening measures three-fourths by one and one-fourth inches. A fragment of the outer table has been removed from the edge, and a fragment of the inner table, measuring one-fourth by one inch, is partially fractured and depressed one-fourth inch. A fissure four inches long passes upward across the coronal suture into the right parietal bone, and two others pass downward and laterally. Two fragments of bone penetrated the dura mater, and a portion of the ball was found in the substance of the brain. Private T. B., "I," 65th New York, 30: probably Cedar Creek, Va., 19th October; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 24th ; died, 25th October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. 20*2. A section of cranium, fractured at the lower border of the right parietal bone, apparently by a musket ball, b. 32. Fragments have beeu removed for a distance of two inches from before backward and one-half inch in width, and a fragment half an inch long remains in situ. The inner table is fractured to a somewhat greater extent, and two small fragments remain with their free edges slightly depressed. There is caries of the fractured surface, but no distinct attempt at repair. Private H. C, "D," 10th Pennsylvania Reserves, 26: Old Church, Va., 30th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 4th June; died, 11th June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Geo. A. Mursick, U. S. Vols. 3150. A segment of cranium, fractured, apparently by a musket ball, at the sagittal suture, one inch behind the coronal, b. 33. Fragments of the outer table have been removed from a space one inch long and half an inch in width, one fragment slightly depressed remaining attached. Fragments of the inner table have been removed from a surface measuring one and a fourth by one inch. A fragment depressed one line at the free edge is attached. The left parietal is fissured through both tables from the point of injury to the posterior inferior augle. The edges of the opening show traces of attempt at repair. The autopsy demonstrated abscess in the brain. Private O. G., "C," 16th Maine, 21: admitted hospital, Washington, 24th August; died, 30th August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 2904. The vault of the cranium, fractured by a musket ball at the middle of the superior border of the right parietal b 34. bone. Fragments have been removed from an elliptical space measuring one by one and one-fourth inches. The posterior half of the sagittal suture is separated, and five fissures radiate from the fractured point. The edges of the opening are necrosed, cribriform and crumbling, and this condition affects the inner table over a surface two inches in diameter. An abscess was found in the brain at the autopsy. Private T. M. J., " H," 45th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 38: wounded, 13th July; admitted hospital, Washington, 17th; died, 29th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. L. Leavitt. 20*1. A section of frontal bone fractured by musket ball, with four fragments of bone removed by operation. The b. 35. opening in the bone is one inch above the left frontal eminence, and measures one inch from right to left and three-fourths of an inch antero-posteriorly. All the fragments have been removed. Private J. R., "D," 9th Massachusetts: wounded, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 13th; died, 19th May, J864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Geo. A. Mursick, U. S Vols. 3