XII. 240 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 592. ThtMippcr half of the right femur, shattered at the trochanters, with a complete fracture through the neck and an b. 23. oblique one down the shaft. The specimen shows an incomplete resection. Private T. H., "F," 5th Pennsylvania Reserves, 28: Fredericksburg, 13th December, 18C2; excision was attempted, but relinquished from the severity of the injury; died, Washington, "id January, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon H. Bryant, U. S. Vols. See class XII. A. b. d. 3946. The bones of the left hip joint. A conoidal ball entered above the trochanter major, completely fractured the b. 24. neck and chipped the posterior portion of the head of the femur, fractured the lower portion of the acetabulum and, as it is said, lodged above the iliac border. The articular surface of the acetabulum is much disorganized. The fracture, which is entirely intracapsular, was not diagnosed until a few days before death. Private G. L., "D," 5th Louisiana, (Rebel,) 21: Monocacy, 9th July; admitted hospital, Frederick, the same day; died. 3d September, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. 694. The bones of the left hip joint, thoroughly carious and in a great measure absorbed on the articular surfaces, b. 25. On the body of the ischium, bordering the acetabulum, a deposit of callus has occurred. The point of impingement appears to have been the ischium at the lowest margin of the acetabulum, where a square inch of the bone is necrosed and nearly separated. The ball entered the left hip, behind the femur, and emerged at the root of the penis. While supporting his head on both hands, another bullet wounded the thumb and forefinger of the left hand and the lower ends of the metacarpals of the right hand, passed through the right ear and upward under the scalp for three inches and then escaped. Corporal C. II. R., 'C," 1st New Jersey, 19: Gaines' Mill, 27th June; died, Philadelphia, 20th September, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon P. B. Goddard, U. S. Vols. 3792. The bones of the right hip joint, with the neck of the femur brokpn off close to its trochanteric extremity. The b. 26. fracture extends to and involves the head, a portion of which is absorbed and the whole of whose surface is carious from the succeeding disease. For several weeks it was supposed the margin of the acetabulum had been fractured, producing luxation. Private W. A. M., "C," 24th Iowa, 21: Winchester, 17th September, 1864; died exhausted, 13th February, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon L. P. Wagner, 114th New York. 4213. The upper extremity of the right femur. The neck has been perforated and shattered by n conoidal ball which b. 27. entered from behind and lodged near the trochanter minor, opening the joint, wrhich is eroded and to a degree carious. Captain E. F. S., -'K," IstNew York Cavalry, 23: Sailor's Run, Va., 6th April; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th Maj ; died of pyaemia, 2d June, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. K. Smith. 2106. The bones of the right hip joint. A conoidal ball entered just above Poupart's ligament, raDged downward and b. 28. backward through the posterior portion of the acetabulum, grazing the head of the femur and lodging above the tuber ischii. Much of the head of the femur is eroded, but on the anterior aspect a small circular portion of sound bone remains, surrounded by diseased tissue. That portion of the acetabulum directly fractured is necrosed, and the greater part of the remainder is carious. Private W. H., "C," 22d Indiana: Mission Ridge, 25th November, 1863; died, 10th January, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Stubbs. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 1391. A part of the right os innominatum, with the ischiatic portion of the acetabulum chipped by a bullet which b. 29. wounded the penis and scrotum. Private J. B. F., "D," 42d Virginia, (Rebel,) 25: probably Southside R. R., 1st April; admitted hospital. Washington, 6th; died from pyremia, 21st April, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. F. Norris, U. S. Army. See class XX. A. B. a. 34 19. The upper fourth of the left femur, shattered through the neck, with loss of substance in the upper portion. The b. 30. bullet entered from the front. The same case contributed an ununited fracture of the forearm. Private M. K., "D," 65th New York, 36: admitted hospital, Baltimore, 24th October; died, 1st November, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. See 3420, VIII. A. B. b. 8. 33. The upper extremity of the left femur, with the neck shattered at its junction with the head. The greater portion b. 31. of the head is intact. The extremity of the neck is necrosed. A conoidal ball entered below Poupart's ligament, externally to the femoral vessels, and escaped directly opposite through the buttock. Private P. M., "B," 1st Virginia Rifles, (Rebel,) 28: Williamsburg, 5th May; died exhausted, Washington, 26th May, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. Army.