22 I. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 3834. A section of cranium fractured by a fragment of shell near the centre of the frontal bone. Fragments have been b. 65. removed from a space two inches in diameter, including the right frontal eminence. From the inner table the removal of bone has been more extensive, measuring three inches from above downward and inward by two inches in width, and including the posterior walls of both frontal sinuses. The anterior walls of the sinuses are comminuted, and the fragments are consolidated by new ossific deposit and are depressed from one-fourth to one-half an inch at their upper and free edges. From the upper part of the opening a fissure runs outward to the extremity of the right great ala of the sphenoid, and the fragment of frontal bone thus separated is forced outward one-fourth of an inch. Corporal W. O K., "F," 3d Indiana Cavalry, 29: Funkstown, Md., 8th July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 18th July; died, 15th August. 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. 2075. The vault of the cranium, extensively fractured and comminuted by a carbine ball at the anterior inferior angle b. 66. of the left parietal and adjoining portion of the frontal bones. The fractured surface measures four inches in diameter, and about one square inch has been removed. A fissure of both tables, two inches in length, passes into the right parietal bone. Private E. A. P., "K," 5th Iowa Cavalry: Wateree, Tenn., 6th December; admitted hospital, Tullahoma, Tenn., 7th; died, 9th December, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon B. Woodward, 22d Illinois. 2846. A section of cranium fractured, apparently by a musket ball, (possibly a fragment of shell,) which entered at the b. 67. outer edge of left orbit, carrying away the orbital portion of the malar and the external angular process of the frontal bones, and penetrated the root of the left great ala of the sphenoid, carrying it away and causing fracture of the left parietal and squamous portion of the temporal. The left orbital plate of the frontal is traversed by a fracture with comminution and removal of bone. The zygoma is separated at its root, and the superior wall of the antrum is fractured and slightly depressed Contributed by Surgeon O. A. Judson, U. S Vols. See class II. A. A. e. 2078. A section of cranium showing a fracture of the frontal bone extending from the left frontal eminence to the right b. 68. supra-orbital notch, caused by a conoidal ball. The fragments have been removed, leaving a gap in the outer table measuring three and a half inches in length and three-fourths of an inch in width, involving chiefly the anterior walls of the frontal sinuses, which are very large and deep. The inner table is penetrated just below the left frontal eminence, the opening being one inch long and one-half inch wide. Private T. H. P>., "E," 7th Michigan, 20: Ream's Station, Va., 23d August; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th August; a piece of ball and fragments of bone removed by operation, 3d September; died a few hours afterward. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 2641. A segment of cranium fractured and penetrated by a musket ball at the centre of the right squamous suture, b. 69. The fragments have been removed, leaving an oval opening measuring three-fourths of an inch by one inch externally, and having the edges beveled at the expense of the inner table. There is no Assuring. Sergeant J. C, " B," 3d Pennsylvania Cavalry : Mine Run, 27th November; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 4th December; died, 5th December, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S Vols. 2690. A section of skull, trephined for extensive fracture of the frontal and facial bones caused by a conoidal ball, b. 70. which entered just above the interna' angle of the right eye and passed downward, inward and backward, emerging through the outer wall of the left antrum of Highmore. A disc of bone has been removed from the centre of the frontal between the superciliary ridges, and the bony walls of the nasal cavity and of the left orbit have been carried away. The inner wall of the right orbit is also wanting. Private J. L., "A," 122d Ohio, 28: Mine Run, Va., 27th November; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 4th December; trephined by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols., 8th; died, 9th December, 1863. Contributed by the operator. Sec class II. A. A. b. For other illustrations sec 85, II. A. a. c. 6; 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 44; 4628, XXVI. A. 2, 58. c. Trephined. 261. Disc and fragment of bone removed from the cranium by the trephine. The fragment embraces one-fourth C. 1. square inch in surface. Private C. L., "B,"5th New York: discharged the service, 4th January, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon D. W. Cheever.