OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. B. 97 3181. The left scapula and upper portion of the humerus. A large part of the infra-spinous portion of the scapula b. 36. is wanting; the anterior portion of the glenoid fossa appears to have been shot away, the whole surface of the glenoid cavity is destroyed by caries, and the head of the bone has broken down under the ulceration. There is no attempt at repair. Private W. Y.. "E," 151st New York, 30: probably Gettysburg, 3d July; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 10th July; died from suppurative fever, 31st August, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator of Jarvis Hospital. 695. The left scapula and clavicle and upper part of the humerus, one month after injury. A bullet entered the b. 37. posterior border of the left axilla, emerged near the middle of the clavicle, wounded the thyroid cartilage, and escaped through the right cheek. The glenoid cavity is destroyed and the adjacent bone necrosed ; the head of the humerus is shattered and carious and a fissure extends down its shaft; tlie body of the scapula has a partial fracture nearly across it, ami the clavicle is fractured and necrosed in the middle. One fracture extends from the glenoid cavity up the supra- spinous fossa, and that in the clavicle may have been caused by the blow on the shoulder. Private D. B., "I," 22d Massachusetts: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th December, 1862; died from pleurisy, 14th January, 1863. Contributed by Medical Cadet Burt G. Wilder. See 697, XIX. A. b. a. 3; 696, XIX. A. b. a. 12. 1011. The left scapula and upper extremity of the humerus, eight and a half months after injury. A round ball has b. 38. entered at the lesser tuberosity, passed through the joint and lodged above the glenoid cavity. The head of the humerus is carious and partly absorbed. The glenoid fossa is destroyed by ulceration, and the cavity holding the ball is formed by an expansion of new bone containing three cloacae The body of the scapula is irregularly thickened. A good illustration of the effect of a smooth round ball remaining a long time in bone, the irritation of its presence having affected the growth of the entire scapula without having been sufficiently intense to produce death of the parts. A typical case for operative interference. Corporal H. L. P., "H," 1st Missouri Light Artillery, 32: Shiloh, Tenn., 6th April; admitted hospital, St. Louis, 22d April; died exhausted, 26th December, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 1062. A wet preparation of the upper fourth of the left humerus. The head has been broken into several fragments, b. 39. which have retained their vitality and become consolidated in new positions with new muscular attachments. One of these consolidated fragments has been again fractured, possibly in the removal of the specimen. A formation, as if of a cyst surrounding a lodged bullet, appears in the outer and anterior region. The axillary artery presents a large opening from ulceration, indicating death from secondary haemorrhage. Received, without history, from Acting Assistant Surgeon D. W. Cheever. 928. The upper third of the left humerus, and the acromion and coracoid processes and bod}' of the scapula. The b. 40. glenoid cavity and the two processes are eroded by ulceration. The surgical neck and head of the humerus were shattered by a conoidall ball and are necrosed. Private A. B., 133d Pennsylvania, 23: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, unable to endure an operation, Point Lookout, Md., 16th December, 1862; died, January, 1863. Contributed by Acting Medical Cadet J. S. Lombard. 239. The right scapula and upper portion of the humerus. The glenoid fossa is fractured, and the border of the b. 41. scapula immediately below it is carried away, as if by a missile that crushed the lesser tuberosity Assuring the shaft. Corporal P. B., "0," 88th Pennsylvania, 43: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 27th September; died, 7th October, 1862. Contributor unknown. For other illustrations, sec 4628, XXVI. A. 2, 62. c. Excisions. 4343. A portion of the head of the right humerus excised for gunshot. The specimen, which is a section one-half inch C. 1. in its greatest thickness, is completely carious, and retains but a small part of the articular surface. Corporal H. H., "B," 14th New York Heavy Artillery, 23: Fort Steadman, Va., 25th March; admitted hospital, Washington, 2d April; excised by Surgeon R. B Boutecou, U. S. Vols., 8th May; discharged the service, 25th July, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 13