OF THE UNITED STATES AEMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. B. 15 Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 1197. A segment of the frontal bone, fractured above the left frontal protuberance by a small iron canister shot, which b. 13. is attached. The missile was found in the frontal lobe, in a cavity several times its own size. The wound of the external table is one inch by one and three-fourths, from which two-thirds of the substance have been removed, the remaining fragments being slightly depressed. The fracture and loss of substance of the inner table are somewhat greater, and the borders are necrosed. Private J. B. I. Contributed by Surgeon Edwin Bentley, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. A. c. 4075. Six fragments of bone from the cranium, with a part of a conoidal ball. The fragments consist of outer and b. 14. inner table and diploe, aud together make up nearly one square inch of bone. Sergeant L. N. E., "I," 1st Michigan, 23: admitted hospital, Washington, 4th April; specimen removed by Surgeon N. R. Moseley, U. S. Vols.; died, 23d April, 3865. Contributed by the operator. See class XXVII. B. A. c. 1723. The vault of the cranium, fractured by a musket ball just below the anterior superior angle of the left parietal b. 15. bone. Fragments have been removed from an opening three-fourths of an inch in diameter, and from the inner table from a surface one inch in diameter. Two fragments of the outer and inner tables remain attached, being depressed two lines at the free edges. The edges of the opening are rounded off, the surrounding bone is soft and slightly porous, and upon the internal table there are traces of periosteal disturbance with slight deposit of ossific matter. Corporal I. D. M., "D," 108th New York: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Alexandria, t9th December, 1862; died, 30th January, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. W. Fryer. 3091. Three fragments of necrosed bone, the largest covered with osteophytes, aud measuring one-half by one and a b. 16. half inches. Contributor and history unknown. See class I. D. B. 3543. A section of cranium showing fracture with depression near the b. 17. centre of the sagittal suture, caused by a conoidal ball, which is impacted and split from the point nearly to the base by the edge of the fractured bone. The ball and eight fragments of bone which are attached were removed by operation. The opening in the bone is three-fourths of an inch in diameter. The surrounding inner table is carious and necrosed over two square inches of its surface, and the outer table bears marks of diseased action over a surface eight inches in diameter. See figure 19. Private C. C. W., "I,'" 6th Wisconsin, 21: Spottsylvania, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th ; ball aud fragments of bone removed, 31st May: died, 4th June, 1864. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 23. See class XXVII. B. is. d. 1727. The vault of the cranium, with seven fragments of bone and two of a leaden pistol ball. The frontal bone is b. 18. fractured with depression one inch above and internal to its left eminence. The opening made by the removal of fragments is ovoid, and measures one-half by one inch externally, the injury to the inner table being slightly more extensive. One fragment of the bullet was found just beueatli the scalp, aud one in the substance of the brain. First Sergeant C. A. C, "A," 3d Virginia Cavalry (Rebel): wounded, 11th October; admitted hospital. Washington, 13th : died, 15th October, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. u. d. 2680. A segment of cranium fractured at the coronal suture, near the inferior angle of the right parietal bone, by a b. 19. conoidal ball. Five fragments of bone, chiefly from the inner table, are attached. The opening externally measures one-half by one inch, the edge being beveled internally. The fragments removed include all the fractured portion of the bone. The ball, which is battered and misshapen, was found after death in an abscess in the posterior lobe of the right hemisphere. A purulent deposit between the dura mater and the arachnoid extended over the whole hemisphere. Private H. F. M., "G," 39th Massachusetts: Spottsylvania, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th; fragments removed, 19th; died, 25th May, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon George A. Mursick, U. S. Vols. FlQ. 19. Conoidal ball split on left parietal. Spec. 35-13