180 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION VIII. 4235. Six inches of the shaft of the right ulna excised for a longitudinal fracture from a conoidal ball. c. 6. Private W. B. B., "I," 124th New York, 37: Petersburg, 27th October; admitted hospital, Washington, 30th October; excised, 1st November, 1864. Recovered, except as to the power of rotation. Contributed by Surgeon O. A. Judson, U. S. Vols. For other illustrations, see 488, VIII. A. a. d. 10; 2206, VIII. A. B. c. 21; 3085, VIII. A. D. c. 24; 3086, VIII. A. B. c. 35; 3297, VIII. A. B. d. 12. d. Amputated Fractures. 3093. The upper portions of the bones of the right forearm and the lowest fourth of the humerus, apparently primarily d. 1. amputated. The radius is nearly transversely fractured in the upper third without displacement. The ulna is fractured nearly an inch higher than the first-named, with upward splintering and chipping of the anterior surface. Received from the Army of the Potomac. 2038. The bones of the left forearm, primarily amputated after fracture by a conoidal ball in the upper third. The ulna d. 2. is not comminuted, but the radius is broken up for the space of two inches below the tubercle. Private W. B., "I," 14th Connecticut: Morton's Ford, 6th February; amputated, Second Corps Field Hospital, 8th February ; discharged the service, 31st May, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon J. Dwindle, 106th Pennsylvania. 1503. The greater portion of the bones of the forearm. A bullet passed between the bones in the upper third, shattering d. 3. the radius for two and the ulna for three inches. Primary amputation in the humerus was probably performed. Contributed by Surgeon J. H. Brinton, U. S. Vols. 532. The bones of the right forearm. The ulna is fractured in the middle third, two inches of the outer half of the d. 4. bone is wanting, and longitudinal Assuring extends for three inches above and below a transverse fracture. Primary amputation in the arm was probably performed. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon G. M. McUill, U. S. Army. 4111. Portions of the bones of the left forearm, shattered in their lower extremities and apparently amputated in the d. 5. middle. Private J. D., "K," 7th New York: amputated by Surgeon W. B. Resfuouls, 12th September, 1864. Received from the Army of the Potomac. 1675. The upper portion of the bones of the right forearm and the lowest third of the humerus. Both bones of the d. 6. forearm are shattered at the extremities of the shafts by the antero-posterior passage of a round bullet. Private N. H., "B," 2d U. S. Colored Troops: accidentally shot on guard, Mason's Island, Va.; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon N. J. rettijohn. Contributed by the operator. 1981. Two fragments of the bones of the right forearm, amputated after shattering by the premature discharge of a d. 7. cannon. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Alfred Muller. 2650. The bones of the left forearm, extensively comminuted. The ulna has three distinct transverse fractures in the d. 8. upper two-thirds, connected by one longitudinal fracture on the posterior surface: the upmost fragment has a complete longitudinal fracture through it extending to the epiphysis. Two inches of the radius at the junction of the lower thirds is wanting, and the entire upper portion of the shaft is comminuted. The injury was probably from shell fire and was followed by primary amputation in the arm. Received after Chancellorsville. 1637. The left wrist and hand with two inches of the lower extremity of the radius and two and a half of the ulna, d. 9. and the elbow with three inches of the radius, two inches of the ulna and the lowest thir,d of the humerus. The head of the radius is shattered by longitudinal fractures which extend up the shaft. The forearm was carried away by a round shot, which also lacerated the left gluteal region. Primary amputation was probably performed in the humerus. Private P. H. T., " K," 34th Indiana, 27: hospital-steamer " Crescent City" fired into from the Arkansas shore, near Island 82, Mississippi river, 27th June; died, 29th June, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols.