XIX. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. Gunshot Injuries. B .^Secondary Conditions. a. Without operation. b. Operated upon. a. Without Operation. I HO. A wet preparation of the larynx, wounded by a battered conoidal ball, whicli is mounted (as 1440 also) near the a. 1. specimen. An imitation of the missile rests in the upper portion of the right wing of the thyroid cartilage, where the hullet, which first shattered the inferior maxilla to the right of the symphysis, lodged. The appearance of false membrane, which was not recorded in the hospital notes, is observable in the larynx. No large artery was opened, but the air passages were much congested and swollen. The specimen is noteworthy as illustrative of the length of time life maybe preserved under so severe a wound. Corporal T. A. W., " K," 111th New York, 22: Gettysburg, 2d July; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 15th; died suddenly, 22d July, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. See 1451, II. A. B. b. 5. See classes XXVII. B. B. d.; XXVII. B'. 648. A wet preparation of the larynx and the upper rings of the trachea. A pistol ball passed transversely through the a. 2. larynx, splitting the cartilage of the epiglottis and avoiding the nerves and principal vessels of the neck. The larynx and trachea were much inflamed, and the rima glottidis was closed at the time of death. The specimen is poorly prepared and not at all satisfactory to examine. Private W. B., "K," 3d Pennsylvania: admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 5th November; died, 12th November, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. A. Jack. 697. A wet preparation of the larynx and upper part of the trachea. The anterior and upper portion of the thyroid a. 3. cartilage has been carried away by a bullet which shattered the head of the humerus and the clavicle of the left side and subsequently escaped through the right cheek. The external economy of the larynx is not interfered with. Private D. B., " I," 22d Massachusetts: Fredericksburg, 13th December ; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th December, 1862; died from pleuro-pneumonia and general exhaustion, 14th January, 1863. Contributed by Medical Cadet Burt G. Wilder. See 695, V. A. B. b. 37; 696, XIX. A. B. a. 12. 2021. A wet preparation of the larynx, with the upper portion of the trachea and a section of the supra-hyoid muscles, a. 4. A bullet that fractured the left side of the inferior maxilla passed through the hyo-glossus, destroyed the epiglottis and emerged on the right side of the neck just below the omo-hyoid. The wounds of the muscles are held open by glass rods Respiration was carried on through the lower wound, and most of the food escaped through the same orifice. Private S. C, "C," 44th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 44: Bristoe Station, Va., 14th October; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 15th; died, 19th October, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Norman S. Barnes. 2117. A wet preparation of portions of three ribs of the right side, showing the middle one fractured by a conoidal ball a. 5. which penetrated the thorax and from which death followed in four days. The missile is suspended outside the jar. Private F. H., "B," 14th Connecticut: Morton's Ford, Va., 6th February; died, lUth February, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon Justin Dwinelle, 101 st Pennsylvania. , See classes IV. A. B. b.; XXVII. B. b. d.