31 A. C. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. eminence and extends into the mastoid process of the left temporal. A second fissure branches downward through the left supra-orbital ridge. Both superior maxillaries are fissured by indirect violence. Other fissures involve the occipital, the petrous portion of the left temporal and both parietal bones. Unknown: killed at the Second Bull Run. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon F. Schafhirt. See A'. ยง60. A cranium perforated and extensively fractured, apparently by a fragment of shell which entered at the a. 12. centre of the superior border of the frontal and passed out at the right side of the base of the skull, carrying away the right temporal, the malar and the ethmoid bones, also the processes of the sphenoid on the right side, the walls of the right orbit and the inferior border of the right parietal bone. The opening of entrance measures two and one-half inches antero-posteriorly by three-fourths of an inch in width. The vault of the cranium is entirely separated by a fissure which traverses the frontal just below the eminences, the squamous portion of the left temporal and the occipital, including the foramen magnum. From the battle-field of Bull Run. Contributed by Surgeon Jerome B. Green. 1166. A skull extensively fractured by a missile which has traversed the base of the cranium from the left temporal a. 13. fossa to the right meatus auditorius externus, carrying away the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the vomer, lachrymal, and turbinated bones, the right orbital plate of the frontal, and the squamous portion of the right temporal. The petrous portions of both temporals are fractured. The vault of the cranium is fractured into four large fragments. Unknown (Rebel): killed at Antietam. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols. See class II. A. A. a. 1319. A portion of cranium, the remainder of which is supposed to have been carried away by shell. It includes a. 14. the occipital, the mastoid and petrous portions of the left temporal, the body of the sphenoid, and the posterior half of the left parietal bones. From the battle-field of the Second Bull Run. Contributed by Surgeon F. Wolf, 39th New York. b. Operated Upon. 3516. A disc of bone one inch in diameter removed by the trephine from the right parietal, after perforation by a b. 1. bullet which entered near its superior border and escaped at its union with the occipital. Private F. E., "M," 4th Pennsylvania: Petersburg, '25th November; admitted hospital, Washington, 16th De- cember; trephined, by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols., 18th; died, 20th December, 1864. Contributed by the operator. c. Secondary Results without an Operation. 2928. A cranium perforated and extensively comminuted, apparently by a musket ball which entered at the posterior c. 1. superior angle of the left parietal and passed out just above the middle of the left squamous suture. Four lines of fracture radiate in a fan-like manner from the opening of entrance, the upper line passing to the coronal suture half an inch to the left of the sagittal; the next passing to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal and curving around to the left frontal eminence; the third to the middle of the squamous suture; and tin- fourth nearly to the posterior inferior angle. Other lines of fracture pass at right angles to these, dividing the left parietal bone into twelve fragments. There are some marks of diseased action, which show that the injury was not immediately fatal. Contributor and history unknown. 4257. A skull perforated by a musket ball, which entered at the middle of the inferior border of the right parietal c. 2. and passed out just behind its posterior inferior angle, leaving a bridge of bone one and three-fourths inches wide. Fragments have been removed from the wound of entrance for two inches by three-fourths of an inch. Posteriorly the fractured surface measures two by three inches, the greater portion of the fragments being in situ. There are two short fissures of the parietal, and one of the occipital involving both tables and extending nearly to the foramen magnum. Second Lieutenant H. W. T., "E," 23d North Carolina, (Rebel,) 28: Winchester, 20th July, admitted hospital, Cumberland, Md., 23d; died, 30th July, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon J. B. Lewis, U. S. Vols. 2905. A cranium traversed by a musket ball, which entered just in front of the centre of the right branch of c. 3. the coronal suture and passed out through the posterior angle of the right parietal, leaving a bridge of fractured bone two and a half inches wide. The entire surface fractured measures six inches autero-posteriorly,