518 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION XXIII. B. Hospital Gangrenk. 3763. A wet preparation of a portion of the left band, showing the ravages of hospital gangrene. The last three fingers B. 1. and corresponding metacarpals appear to have been amputated, as if for gunshot. Phagedenic ulceration has destroyed much of the remaining soft parts. Amputation appears to have been performed iu the lowest third of the forearm. Contributor and history unknown. 3073. A wet preparation of the right wrist and hand, amputated in the lowest third of the forearm for a lacerated gunshot B. 2. fracture in the palmar aspect of the base of the thumb. On the dorsal surface, to which the bullet does not appear to have penetrated, is an ulcer of hospital gangrene of three inches superficial diameter, on account of which and the constitutional depression the operation was performed. Private J. B., " G," 09th Pennsylvania: wounded,22d June ; amputated by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols., 9th August; died of pneumonia, 22d September, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 3279. A wet preparation of the left wrist and hand. The second metacarpal bone was fractured, with laceration of the B. 3. soft parts, and its removal was followed by secondary lni'morrhage and hospital gangrene, necessitating amputation in the forearm. The extensor tendons are exposed on the dorsum of the hand. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is completely denuded and the adjacent soft tissues destroyed, and an extensive ulcer occupied the palmar surface of the last two metacarpals. Private J. S., "A," 7th New York (Heavy Artillery ?), 34: admitted hospital, Washington, 17th August; second metacarpal disarticulated by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols., 19th August; forearm amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. H. Ensign, 15th September, 1804. Transferred North. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. Guthrie Winder. 551. A wet preparation of the right hand, showing hospital gangrene after amputation of the second finger at the B. 4. second joint. Very extensive disorganization of the soft parts, including the tendons and the metacarpals, required amputation in the forearm. Corporal I. M., "B," 164th Pennsylvania, 39: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital with finger amputated, Chester, 12th; amputated in the lowest third of the forearm by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. G. F. Strawbridge, 30th June, 1864: amputated in the lowest third of the arm, for necrosis of the stump, by Acting Assistant Surgeon George S. Stein, 9th April, 1865. Recovered. Contributed by Brevet Lieuteuant Colonel T. H. Bache. Surgeon, U. S. Vols. See 4170, VIII. A. Jt. f. 10; 2672, XXI. A. B. b. 13. 3384. A wet preparation of the left wrist and hand, exhibiting extensive destruction of the soft parts of the palm by B. 5. hospital gangrene following a flesh wound. The metacarpophalangeal articulation was destroyed by ulceration. Private E. P., "D," 9th New Hampshire, 32: Petersburg, 30th September; admitted hospital, Washington, 3d October; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. Craft, 3d November, 1864; discharged the service, 1st June, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 2834. A wet preparation of the left hand, from which the metacarpal bone of the index finger has been removed, amputated B. 6. in the lowest third of the forearm for sloughing by hospital gangrene of all the extensor tendons witli slight injury to the skin. Private E. E. G., "D," 2d Michigan, 31: admitted hospital, Washington, Kith June; gangrene appeared, 23d June; forearm amputated, 13th July; discharged the service, 24th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon John Morris. 2358. A wet preparation of the right forearm and hand. The first two fingers and their metacarpals have been removed, B. 7. and the soft tissues adjacent to the incision are occupied by an ulcer, as if phagedenic. Gangrene has also invaded the ulnar side of the forearm exposing the bone, which is dislocated in the specimen. Amputation appears to have been performed in the middle third. Contributed by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, IT. S. Vols. 1990. A wet preparation of the right elbow, amputated in the lowest third of the humerus for gangrene following fracture B 8. of both bones in the upper third. A line of demarcation encircles a space of four by six inches, iu the ceutre of which the tissue is destroyed to the joint, which is disorganized. Private O. C. C, " C," 65th New York : admitted hospital, Washington, lltliMay; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon II. Craft, 16th September, 1804; discharged the service, 27th May, 1865. Contributed by the operator.