I. CRANIUM. _A.» Gunshot Injuries of the Bones. A. Contusions and Partial Fractures a. Primarily Fatal. 1223. The anterior four-fifths of the cranium, showing a depressed partial fracture in the centre of the fronlal bonei a. 1. caused by a fragment of shell. The fracture in the external table measures three-fourths of an inch by one inch, with a depression one-fourth of an inch in the centre. The depressed portion of the inner table is slightly larger than that of the outer, and is composed of three pieces. All the fragments are in situ, and are attached by their outer edges. Unknown (Rebel): killed at South Mountain, Md. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols. 2139. A section of the anterior portion of the cranium, showing a partial fracture and depression of the centre a. 2. of the frontal bone, caused by a conoidal ball. The depressed portion measures one by one and one-fourth inches, the depth of the depression in the centre being half an inch. The external table presents a deep groove one and one-fourth inches long, made by the ball after it had produced the depression. The inner table shows a stellate fracture with depression, of slightly greater extent than the external. Died upon the table after amputation in the middle third of the left thigh, under chloroform, the knee having been shattered. Private P. M., "B," 111th Pennsylvania, 22: Brown's Ferry, Tenn., 28th October; admitted hospital, Chattanooga, 29th : died, 30th October, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon John C. Norton, U. S. Vols. b. Trephined. 4348. A section of the occipital bone, perforated by a trephine for the relief of intra-cranial abscess resulting from b. 1. gunshot contusion. The perforation has been made by a small instrument, and is situated just below the superior curved line of the occipital, one inch to the left of the median line. The disc removed is in situ, and the surrounding portion of the external table is slightly discolored and cribriform. Sergeant B. F. C, "H," 8th New York Cavalry, 27: Petersburg, 1st April; admitted hospital, Washington, 5th; haemorrhage from the occipital artery, 14th; trephined for abscess, with temporary relief, by Surgeon R. B. Boutecou, U. S. Vols., 19th; died, 21st April, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 422. A disc of bone, one-half an inch in diameter, removed by the trephine from the cranial wall, and including b. 2. a fracture with depression of both tables, probably caused by a buckshot. The opening in the external table is one-fourth of an inch in diameter, the fragment being evenly driven inward two lines. The fractured fragments of the inner table covered the surface of the disc, and are depressed two lines. The specimen is very inter- esting, but unfortunately no history can be obtained. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. 2024. A section of the frontal bone trephined near its left eminence for suppuration, the result of contusion by a b. 3. musket ball. The external table surrounding the opening is cribriform, and there is slight fissuring of the inner table. Private W. A., "A," 49th Pennsylvania, 25: Rappahaunock Station, 7th November; admitted hospital, Washington, 9th ; trephined by Surgeon R. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols., lath; died, 25th November, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 334. A segment of the right parietal, trephined near the coronal suture. Tlio surrounding bone is porous and b. 4. cribriform, and there has been contusion of the part operated upon. There are no pathological appearances on the inner table. Private D. M., "F," 9th New York. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. fa. Primarily fatal. I b. Trephined. { C. Secondarily fatal with no operation. d. Sequestra removed. I e. Other cases.