25 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. B. 3635. A section of the left parietal, trephined for fracture with depression in front of tli«■ tuberosity caused by a musket C. 21. ball. The fractured portion removed measures one-half by one inch. The crown of the trephine lias not cut through the inner table. Corporal H. L. P., " K," 1st Massachusetts Heavy Artillery: Petersburg, 19th Juno; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 22d ; trephined, dying in a few hours, 27th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon George Kerr. 528. The vault of the cranium, with one disc and seven fragments of b removed by the use of the trephine from c. 22. the left parietal bone, just below the tuberosity, for fracture with depression. One and one-half square inches of bone have been removed; one-third by the trephine, the rest in small fragments. Private P. R., "I," 10th New Jersey: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, and trephined by Surgeon J. H. Brinton, U. S. Vols., 19th; died, 22d December, L862. Contributed by Surgeon J. C. Dorr, U. S. Vols. See 966, I. C. B. b. 5; 965, I. C. is. 21. 1333. A section of the cranium, trephined for the removal of fractured and depressed portions of the parietal bones al c. 23. their junction and near the coronal suture. The depressed fragment is one and a fourth inches in length byone- fourth of an inch in breadth, and has perforated the longitudinal sinus. A part of the ball and some fragme nts of bone were removed on the Held. Private B. K., " G," 6th Ohio Cavalry, 21: Middleburg, Va., 21st June; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th ; trephined by Surgeon John A. Lidell, U. S. Vols., 26th; died, 27th June, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 922. A section of cranium showing fracture of the frontal bone at the right temporal ridge, caused by a musket ball, c. 24. A trephine has been applied over the centre of the superciliary ridge and the depressed bone removed. A fragment of bone, measuring one square inch and consisting of portions of the temporal fossa and the external wall of the orbit, has been forced outward. The fractured bone removed is three-fourths of an inch in diameter. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. Wagner, U. S. Army. 131. A partially trephined segment of the right parietal bone, with five fragments, embracing one square inch, removed c. 25. by operation. There was a depressed fracture with extensive fissures, three of which extend to the edge of the section. The outer table and diploe were cut through, but not removed, by the trephine applied on the sound bone at the edge of the fracture. Private L. C, "B," 2d Pennsylvania Reserves: Chantilly, Va., 1st September; admitted hospital, Washington, 4th; trephined by Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vols., 10th; died, 13th September, 1862. Contributed by the operator. 496. The vault of the cranium, with a disc and twelve fragments removed by the trephine, from the left parietal bone c. 26. at the tuberosity, for a fracture from a conoidal ball. The opening of the operation measures three-fourths by one and one-fourth inches, and a fissure traverses the bone diagonally from the anterior superior to the posterior inferior angle. A depressed fragment with sharp edges is attached to the inner surface of the disc. Private W. H., " C," 4th Michigan: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 17th; trephined, 19th ; died, 21st December, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Samuel A. Storrow, U. S. Army. 2612. A section of cranium, trephined for gunshot fracture of the frontal bone just below the right temporal ridge. c. 27. Fragments have been removed from a space measuring one by one and one-fourth inches. The inner surface of the edge of the opening is slightly cribriform. There is no Assuring. Sergeant A. B., "A," 5th Michigan, 24 : Mine Run, Va., 27th November; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 4th December; trephined, 8th; died, 14th December, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols. For other illustrations see 1563, XXVII. B. B. d. 150. d. Secondarily Fatal without an Operation. 3220. A segment of cranium perforated below and behind the left parietal eminence by a small pistol ball. The opening d. 1. externally is circular and one-fourth of an inch in diameter, the edges being beveled at the expense of the inner table to the diameter of one-half inch. No loose fragments remain, and there is no assuring. The bullet, which was battered by its contact with the bone, passed diagonally downward and forward through both hemispheres of the brain, and was found after death lying against the pia mater on the right side. J. A., colored, (quadroon,) 21 : wounded in the thigh and head, and admitted hospital, Alexandria, 25th December; was conscious when admitted, but stupor gradually increased until death, 30th December, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon Edwin Bentley, U. S. Vols. See 3221, I. C. B. b. 16. 4