171 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM 3610. The bones of the right elbow, after fracture of the outer condyle by a bullet which entered the forearm three f. 90. inches below the joint. The extremity of the humerus is carious. The articular surfaces of the bones of tho forearm are carious and partly absorbed. A very slight osseous deposit exists ou the posterior surface. Private J. N. P., "I," 27th Massachusetts, 22: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 18th May; amputated at the junction of the upper thirds of the humerus, 12th July; died with pyajmic symptoms, 24th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Jamar. 2889. The bones of the right elbow, amputated at the junction of the upper thirds after excision for gunshot. The f. 91. articular extremities are carious for several inches. Private S. W., "K," 45th Pennsylvania, 48: Wilderness, Cth May; admitted hospital, Washington, IGth; three inches of the ulna and the extremity of the humerus excised by Surgeon A. F. Sheldon, U. S. Vols., 24th May; amputated for gangrene, 25th July, 1864; transferred to Philadelphia, 6th April, 1865. Contributed by the operator. See class VII. A. Ji. d. 2868. The lower thirds of the left humerus, amputated after complete shattering by a conoidal ball of the lowest f. 92. third with involvement of the joint on the articular surface. Private L. F., "B," 7th New Hampshire: Olustee, Fla., February; admitted hospital, Hilton Head, S. C, 25th February; amputated, 7th March; discharged the service, 27th June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. E. Semple, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 2784. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation at the junction of the upper thirds three weeks after injury. A f. 93. complete fracture separates the olecranon without displacement. A longitudinal fracture extends three inches down the inner border of the ulna; fragments to the extent of a square inch are wanting on tho outer portion, and the intervening bone on the posterior surface is necrosed. A large portion of the shaft has been removed from the specimen. Private M. A. R., " F," 2d Pennsylvania Reserves : Gettysburg, 2d July ; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 11th ; amputated high up, on account of sloughing of the soft parts, by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. A Buchanan, 5th August; died from pyaemia, 19th August, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 3209. The upper extremity of the bones of the right forearm and the lower two-thirds of the humerus. The radius and f. 94. ulna do not appear to have been directly injured, but are carious and partly absorbed and have united at their adjoining borders. An excision of the lower extremity of the humerus has been made. A loose sequestrum of six inches lies within a partial involucrum of spongy bone, the osseous deposit extending nearly to the point of amputation. Private S. J. C, "D," 32d Massachusetts, 35: Spottsylvania, 12th May; excised in the field, 13th; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th May; amputated, 8th September, 1864; discharged, 5th January, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Philip C. Davis, U. S. Army. See class VII. A. a. c. 16. The lower two-thirds of the right humerus, amputated after comminution of the lowest fourth involving the f. 95. joint. An oblique fracture has broken off the ulnar portion of the trochlea. The borders of the fracture are necrosed and present lines of demarcation. Private G. A. C, 63d Pennsylvania: Fair Oaks, 31st May; amputated, Washington, 28th June; died from pyaemia, 4th July, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon D. W. Cheever. SOY. The upper portions of the bones of the right forearm and the greater portion of the shaft of the humerus, amputated f. 96. in the upper third after excision of the elbow for fracture by a conoidal ball. The extremities of the radius and ulna are carious, and no attempt at reparation has been made. The humerus is necrosed to the line of section. Private P. D., "D," 69th New York: Antietam, 17th September; excised, Frederick, 2d October ; amputated by Surgeon H. S. Hewit, U. S. Vols., 4th December, 1862. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. See 458, VII. A. li. d. 42. 3612. The bones of the left elbow, after amputation in the upperthird. The lowest third of the humerus was shattered f. 97. by a round bullet, the line of solution extending below the posterior and anterior ligaments. The articular surfaces are disorganized by ulceration. Private J. A., "M," 1st U. S. Artillery: near Drury's Bluff, Va., 16th May; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 20th May ; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. P. Moon, 22d June, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Alfred S. Gibbs.