227 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. B. 356ยง. The sacrum, perforated a little to the right of the median line at the junction of the fourth and fifth vertebra;, b. 19. The internal wound is the larger. The missile, a conoidal ball, was found in two pieces in the sacro-ischiatic notch. Private G. F., "A," Purnell Legion, Maryland Volunteers, 2:5: wounded, 2d June; admitted hospital, Wash- ington, and died from pyaemia, 12th June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 1353. The sacrum and posterior portion of the left ilium. The ilium has been grooved on its posterior surface between b. 20. its two spines, by a bullet which appears to have entered the pelvis through the second intervertebral foramen of the sacrum. Contributor and history unknown. 172. The right os innominatum. A conoidal ball has struck the crest of the ilium just above the anterior superior b. 21. spinous process and passed down the bone in its own plane, tearing a channel three inches in length by one in width, and firmly impacting itself just above and internal to the acetabulum, into which a fissure extends. The borders of the fracture are necrosed, and, on the inner surface, fringed with callus. Contributor and history unknown. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3975. A wet preparation of the anterior portion of the pubes and the genito-urinary apparatus. A round bullet entered b. 22. at the tuberosity of the right ischium and splintered its lower surface, the descending ramus of the left pubes was shattered, the bladder was opened and the ball escaped just above the root of the penis. The bony track of the ball is necrosed, and fragments of bone are impacted in the urethra near the neck of the bladder. Private F. P., "K," 6th Georgia, (Rebel,) 23: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 4th October, 1862; died, 29th January, 18C3. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See class XX. A. B. a. 3813. The left os innominatum and sacrum. The posterior superior third of the ilium was fractured by a fragment of b. 23. shell. One line of fracture extends from the posterior inferior spinous process to the crest two inches behind the anterior superior spinous process. The fragment thus broken oft* is bisected by a fracture running at right augles, and of the posterior fragment the inferior half is missing. The missile was shell. Corporal N. M., "C." 22d Pennsylvania Cavalry, 21 : Martinsburg, 3d July ; admitted hospital, Frederick, 5th; died after secondary haemorrhage, 23d July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. C. Shimer. 230. Nearly the right half of the sacrum, much shattered in the second and adjoining bones, as if by a bullet which b. 24. entered from the rear. Contributed by Surgeon Charles Page, U. S. Army. 1642. The sacrum, fractured, with loss of substance, at the junction of the fourth and fifth vertebra1, by the transverse b. 25. passage of a bullet which entered just above and behind the left greater trochanter. The fractured bones an' carious, and the inner face of the sacrum has a slight osseous deposit. Corporal A. E. C, " H," 110th Pennsylvania, 18 : Chancellorsville, 3d May; in the hands of the enemy and neglected nine days; admitted hospital, Washington, 14th June; died exhausted, without peritonitis, 9th July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Carlos Carvallo. 2902. The sacrum and fifth lumbar vertebra. A conoidal ball, which entered at the second intervertebral foramen on b. 26. the left side of the sacrum, is lodged in that bone, which is much fractured on both faces. Private G. A. L., "I," 1st Pennsylvania Reserves, 23: Wilderness. 8th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 14th; died, 15th May, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon U. Sweet. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 1246. A wet preparation of a portion of the right ilium, much shattered directly behind the acetabulum by a conoidal b. 27. ball which entered the pelvis at the sacro-iliac symphysis. Private S. W., "A," 23d New Jersey: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th : died after secondary haimorrhage, 24th May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See class XXV11. B. B. d. 3212. The superior half of the left ilium. A conoidal ball from the front has struck the anterior superior spinous process b. 28. and passed backward nearly three inches in the long diameter of the bone, breaking it up with much comminution. The fragments are irregularly attached by callus, but the track of the ball is carious. The inuer face of the ilium shows slight osseous deposits beyond the line of fracture. Private M. S., " H," 116th Pennsylvania, 30: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital. Washington, 12th June; died from pyasmia, 8th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Neal. See class XXVII. B. B. d.