CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION III. 60 See 881, XVIII. II. A. B. a. 3. 843. Portions of the second, third and fourth dorsal vertebrae, with the spine of the second and right transverse process a. 4. of the third fractured by a conoidal hall which passed through both scapulae. The fragments are partly agglutinated by new deposit, and spicules are necrosed. Private J. S. L., "G," 18th Massachusetts, 18: date of wound not reported; died, Philadelphia, 17th September, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon P. B. Goddard, U. S. Vols. See 61)9, IV. A. n. b. 18. The sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth dorsal vertebrae. The right transverse processes of the seventh and a. 5. eighth are carried away, and a fragment of the ninth is chipped off. The seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth ribs were fractured, fragments of the first two of which are with the specimen. Private S. B., "E," 4th Vermont, 23: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 13th; died, exhausted, 21st May, 1864. Contributed by Assistaut Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See class IV. A. B. b. 3171. Two dorsal vertebrae, the lower of which is deeply grooved ou its anterior face by a conoidal ball which passed a. 6. from left to right. Death occurred from internal secondary haemorrhage from the spleen, through which the missile passed. Corporal J. L. W.. "A," 2d Connecticut Heavy Artillery, 38: Cedar Creek, 19th October; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 25th ; died, 28th October, 18(14. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. Walsh Emory. 2762. The third lumbar vertebra, retaining, half buried in the left side of its body, a nearly spent conoidal ball which a. 7. entered from the rear. The bullet still presses between itself and the bone fragments of clothing, and rests half exposed in its long diameter. Immediately around the bullet are traces of commencing necrosis. The other portions of the bone escaped injury, but the crural nerve was wounded. The first aud fourth vertebrae are mounted with the specimen. Private T. D., "F," 1st Michigan Sharpshooters, 19: Petersburg, 26th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 1st July; tetanus appeared, 4th; died, 5th July, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon George A. Mursick, U. S. Vols. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 20. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 679. The first nine dorsal vertebrae, with the right transverse processes of all except the first and ninth fractured by a. 8. gunshot, which has also involved the corresponding ribs near their articulations. At several points there are marks of commencing caries. Contributed by Surgeon P. B. Goddard, U. S. Vols. See class IV. A. B. b. 1951. The sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth vertebrae, with portions of the corresponding ribs. The adjoining posterior a. 9. portions of the bodies of the seventh and eighth vertebrae are fractured by a conoidal carbine or pistol ball, which has lodged between them and the head of the corresponding rib, partially splitting the latter. The canal is not involved, and no symptoms until nearly the close of life indicated where the missile had lodged. Private T. C, "G," 8th Illinois Cavalry, 30: admitted hospital, Washington, June; died, with chronic diarrhoea, 9th December, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. Allen, U. S. Army. See classes IV. A. B. a; XXVII. B. B. d. 3515. Portions of the dorsal vertebrae with a pistol ball firmly embedded in the body of the fifth, nearly the whole of a. 10. which is shattered. The specimen is interesting from the fact of the injury not having been suspected during life. Lieutenant , Mosby's command (Rebel): admitted hospital with a gunshot fracture of the upper third of the right arm, Sandy Hook, Md , 6th September; there was no wound of exit, and the ball was not discovered ; died, from pneumonia and secondary haemorrhage, 20th September, 1864. At the autopsy the track of the ball was shown to have been in the long axis of the arm and down the chest. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Younglove. See classes VI. A. B. b.; XXVII. B. B. d. 778. The first three cervical vertebrae, with the inferior portions of the occipital and left temporal bones, eight weeks a. 11. after injury. The specimen shows a partial fracture of the left transverse process of the atlas, and destruction, by ulceration, of the articular surface on the same side. Private L. E., 22: a bullet entered the open mouth and escaped two inches to the left of the spinous process of the second cervical vertebra, Antietam, 17th September; haemorrhage to syncope on the field; slight arterial bleeding, Frederick, Hist October and 2d November; left side of the face paralysed, 13th; died, 14th November, 1862. The internal carotid had been severed and its proximal end closed by au organized clot. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Redfern Davies.