112 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION V. d. Amputations. 2175. Six inches of the shaft of the left humerus, showing a consolidated gunshot fracture, from an amputation at the d. 1. shoulder joint tor secondary haemorrhage and gangrene. The union is excellent, although some necrosed fragments, sources of irritation, are yet imprisoned. The head of the humerus was improperly removed in mounting the specimen. Private F. LaF., " G," 100th Illinois, 26 : Chickamauga, 19th September; amputated, Nashville, December, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Surgeon John VV. Foye, U. S. Vols. 3299. The upper two-thirds of the left humerus, amputated at the shoulder joint for secondary haemorrhage. The bone d. 2. was obliquely fractured with longitudinal splintering at the junction of the upper thirds, and at the time of the operation the articulation was destroyed by suppuration. The shaft is covered with a thin friable deposit. Private M. M. C, "C," 56th Massachusetts, 18: wounded, 18th May; amputated, near Alexandria, 8th June; died, 4th July, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon D. P. Smith, U. S. Vols. 267. The upper third of the right humerus, disarticulated for a sloughing stump after amputation at the upper third, d. 3. The stump shows no attempt at repair to have occurred, beyond a very slight periosteal thickening nearthe extremity. Corporal F. A. A., "G," 20th Massachusetts: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, with amputated arm, Chester, Penna., 2d October; disarticulated, 12th ; died from pyaemia, 25th October, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Lewis Fisher. See class VI. A. B. f. 1044. The upper third of the right humerus, comminuted by a conoidal ball which perforated the surgical neck, and d. 4. disarticulated for secondary haemorrhage four weeks after the injury. A slight amount of callus is thrown out from the lower extremity without union. Two fissures extend into the head. PrivateS. W., "A," 77th Pennsylvania, 19: shot in the act of desertion, 2d March; admitted hospital, Smoketown, Md., 24th; amputated for secondary haemorrhage, by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkeift, U S. Vols., 30th March, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. 2637. The lower two-thirds of the left humerus, amputated at the shoulder joint on account of extensive laceration and d. 5. much sloughing following a fracture at the junction of the lower thirds. The fracture of the bone is remarkable in the absence of comminution, and is an example of the transverse oblique. A fissure extends in the outer border of the upper fragment. The specimen was accidentally sawn through in the middle third at the time of mounting, and the upper poitiou is lost. Private A. C, "G,'' 15th New Jersey: admitted hospital, Washington, 7th June; amputated at the shoulder joint, 20th June, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Butterbaugh. 3608. The right humerus, amputated at the shoulder joint for necrosis of the shaft after excision of two and one-half d. 6. inches of the upper third. The upper extremity is somewhat rounded, but spongy. A large sequestrum, around which there is an exceedingly imperfect and scanty involucrum, occupies nearly the entire shaft. Private C. G, "C," 169th New York, 32: Cold Harbor, 1st June; excised, White House, Va., 6th June; removed to Alexandria a few days afterward, and aduiitted hospital, Albany, 27th September, 1864; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon Pearce, 12th January; died, 3d March, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Oscar H. Young. See class VI. A li. c. 3331. The right humerus, from which three inches of the shaft has been excised, the arm subsequently amputated, and d. 7. disarticulation at the shoulder joint finally performed. The lower portion of the specimen, representing the condition nearly four and a half mouths after the injury and excision, exhibits a copious deposit of spongy new bone surrounding a nearly detached sequestrum of several inches. The shaft in the upper fragment is necrosed at the extremity and the articular surface is eroded. Corporal J. M., "E," 22d Massachusetts, 38: Wilderness, 5th May; excised, 6th; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th May; amputated for secondary haemorrhage, 17th September; disarticulated for secondary haemorrhage, 19th September, 1864 ; died from exhaustion following gangiene, the same month. Contributed by Surgeon R. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols. See classes VI. A. B. c; VI. A. B. d.