VII. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 150 3778. The bones of the right elbow, after fracture of the outer condyle. The articular surfaces are destroyed by b. 18. ulceration. A very slight layer of callus occurs on the shaft of the humerus and the posterior portions of the ulua and radius. Contributor and history unknown. 956. The bones of the left elbow, fractured just above the condyles, with the articular surfaces destroyed by b. 19. ulceration. Contributor and history unknown. 1830. The lower portion of the left humerus and upper part of the ulna. The bone just above the outer condyle has b. 20. been gouged out. The articulation has been destroyed by ulceration. A slight periosteal deposit exists on the shaft of the humerus. Received after Gettysburg. 3556. The bones of the right elbow, with the outer condyle and head of the radius carried away by a conoidal ball, b. 21. The articular surfaces are carious. Private B. McB., " H," 88th New York, 25: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 11th May: died from pyaamia, 13th June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 1244. The bones of the right elbow, after death from pyaemia. A complete fracture extends across the humerus above b. 22. the condyles, below the line of which the outer half is carried away. The articular surfaces are carious, and the fragments of the humerus are necrosed. Private J. M., "D," I02d New York: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th; died from pyaemia, 26th May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army 2640. The bones of the right elbow, with the upper third of the radius and the outer condyle shattered, b. 23. Contributor and history unknown. 1829. The bones of the right elbow. The external condyle has been fractured but not displaced. A moderate effusion b. 24. of callus has occurred on the shaft above it. The articular surface of the humerus is necrosed. Received after Gettysburg. 1834. The two lower thirds of the left humerus and the upper halves of the bones of the forearm. The ulna was eom- b. 25. minuted at the coronoid process. The olecranon proper is not injured. Suppuration has destroyed the articulation. Superficial necrosis occupies the entire anterior surface of the shaft, and a friable periosteal deposit covers the remainder of the humerus. Received after Gettysburg. 1558. The bones of the left elbow. The head of the radius is shattered; the olecranon and coronoid processes are b. 26. broken off; the inner condyle is fractured, and an oblique fracture extends two inches up the shaft. There are slight periosteal deposits about the fracture. Received after Gettysburg. 2191. The bones of the right elbow, three months after injury. The olecranon is fractured and nearly destroyed; the b. 27. extremities of both bones of the forearm and the articular surface of the humerus are necrosed. The periosteal disturbance has extended several inches up the shaft. Private W. A. G., "A," 95th Ohio: Chickamauga, 20th September; admitted hospital, Nashville, 14th December: died exhausted, 25th December, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. P. Hackenburg. 698. The bones of the right elbow. The head and upper two inches of the shaft of the radius are comminuted, and b. 28. the external condyle is broken off. A slight deposit of callus covers the radial fragments and retains them in irregular apposition. The articular surfaces are eroded. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols. 3718. The bones of the left elbow for three and a half inches beyond the joint. The joint was opened by a conoidal b. 29. ball, and the extremities of the three bones are carious and absorbed in a notable degree, the humerus being fairly honeycombed. This man was also wounded in the skull by a fragment of shell, which lodged in the brain. Sergeant J. L , "I," 153d New York: Cedar Creek, 19th October; died, Baltimore, 20th November, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. See 3729, I. A. B. b. 51 ; 3725, I. C. B. b. 20.