OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 151 A. B. 2906. The bones of the right forearm and lowest fourth of the humerus. The upper two-thirds of the radius are wanting, b. 30. A bullet entered the outer side of the arm at the junction of the lower thirds, severely comminuted the radius and escaped at the olecranon, opening the joint. The extremity of the humerus is carious and partly absorbed. The anterior surface of the olecranon is carious and partly absorbed, and on the inner border there is a plate of necrosed bone. Private T. F., "C," 14th New York Heavy Artillery, 35: Petersburg, 30th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 1st July; died from no assignable cause, 28th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 2749. The right humerus and the upper thirds of the bones of the forearm, fifteen and a half months b. 31. after injury. Fracture of the humerus, immediately above and involving the joint, was followed by inflammation and resulted in anchylosis. New bone has formed to double the volume of the shaft at its lower extremity and extending to the surgical neck. Through a number of cloacae a very heavy sequestrum, occupying six inches of the shaft, is seen. The head of the bone is spongy and a large part of the articular surface has been destroyed by ulceration. See figure 54. Private B. W., "I," 37th New York, 22: Williamsburg, 5th May, 1862; died with Bright's disease, Philadelphia, 20th August, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon C. H. Boardman. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 42. 1471. The bones of the right elbow, after fracture of the olecranon and necrosis of the extremity, b. 32. and rupture of the posterior portion of the orbicular ligament. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. 523. The upper portions of the bones of the right forearm. The olecranon has been completely b. 33. shattered, and its fragments are more or less adherent in fantastic arches, with the usefulness of the articulation destroyed. The ulna is superficially necrosed on its posterior surface at the base of the olecranon. Contributor and history unknown. 395. The two lower thirds of the right humerus. The entire articular extremity, except a small b. 34. portion of the inner condyle, has been carried away, but an evident attempt has been made to save the limb, as is to be seen by its carious condition. gpec- 1749 Contributed by Surgeon A. B. Hasson, U. S. Army. 229. The bones of the left elbow, after fracture of the outer condyle by a round bullet which entered two and a half b. 35. inches above the joint and passed downward, grazing the humerus and the head of the radius and denuding them of periosteum. Private M. R., "I," 11th Pennsylvania, 26: Second Bull Run, 29th August; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 4th September; gangrene appeared, 20th; died, 21st September, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. B. Bowen. For other illustrations, see 3569, VI. A. B. b. 16. c. Caries Consecutive upon other Injury than Fracture of the Bones of the Joint. 1032. A wet preparation, showing the condition of the Tight elbow seven weeks atter comminution of the humerus by C. 1. a musket ball one and a half inches above the joint. The inflammation extended to the shoulder and below the elbow, and the synovial membrane was destroyed by ulceration. Corporal W. H. L., "F," 12th Illinois: Corinth, Miss., 3d October; admitted hospital, Paducah, Ky., 17th October; amputated in the middle third, 17th November, 1862; discharged the service, 2d January, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon H. P Stearns, U. S. Vols. 159. The bones of the left elbow, exhibiting a carious condition of the articular extremities. There appears to have c. 2. been no fracture, and the situation has probably followed a flesh wound. Contributor and history unknown. 2017. The bones of the left forearm, showing a necrosed condition of the middle third of the radius and erosion of the c. 3. articular surfaces in the elbow after pyaemia following a flesh wound (,and probably contusion of the ulna) of the forearm. Private C. McF., "B," 40th Ohio: Lookout Mountain, 24th November; died from pyaemia, 27th December, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon Benjamin Woodward, 22d Illinois. See class VIII. A. B. a.