CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 34 I. b. Operated upon by the Removal of Fragments. 2179. The vault of the cranium perforated by a bayonet just behind the left b. 1. parietal protuberance, from which death followed in twenty-six days An ovoid portion of bone one by one-half inch has been removed; the edges of the wound are somewhat rounded, and the bony substance is porous, especially upon the inner table. A slight fissure exists in the outer table. See figure 29. Private T. G., " B," 90th Ohio: wounded by a sentinel, and admitted hospital, Nashville, Tenn., 27th November; fragments of dead bone removed, 8th Decem- ber; died, 23d December, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. J. Kipp, U. S. Vols. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 15. 712. A segment of the left parietal bone, showing a fracture, with the removal b. 2. of bone, from the blow of a spade. The fracture extends downward from the sagittal suture three inches, and is one inch in width at the lower part. Nearly all the fractured bone has been removed, but a few depressed fragments of the inner table are adherent. The borders of the wound are necrosed. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols. 235. A section of the vault of the cranium, showing a fracture by sabre cut of the right parietal bone at the b. 3. tuberosity. A triangular piece of bone, amounting to a square inch, has been removed. The skull is very thin, and is fissured in three directions. The bone immediately around the injury is spongy, and gives evidence that death was not primary. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Warren Webster, U. S. Army. d. Secondary Results without an Operation. 974. Two small sequestra from one of the cranial bones, as if after a sabre wound. The smaller, which is one inch in d. 1. length, consists mainly of diploe. The other, which measures three-fourths of an inch by one and a half inches, is blackened and perforated in the centre. Contributor and history unknown. 368-1. A portion of the frontal bone, showing a sabre cut one inch in length just d. 2. internal to the left frontal protuberance, the external table only being injured. Two discolored spots appear upon the bone, possibly due to incip- ient syphilitic caries. See figure 30. Private J. H., 27th Company, Second Battalion, Veteran Reserve Corps, 22: wounded by a sabre while a patient in Ricord General Hospital, Washington, 23d January ; died from abscess of the brain, 17th February, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon N. S. Stickney. See 3685, I. C. B. b. 11; 3571, I. C. B. b. 12. 4206- A wet preparation of a segment of the right parietal bone, fractured by a d. 3. sabre cut near the parietal eminence. Death occurred on the thirty-seventh day. The cut in the outer table measures two and a half inches from above fig. 30. A sabre cut just internal to the left downward, and is a simple incision, the edges of which are necrosed and suppurating frontal protuberance. Spec. 3684. in the centre. A fragment of the inner table, one and a half inches long and one- fourth inch wide, is depressed two lines It is completely covered and the angles of the depression are filled up by a lenticular deposit of lymph two inches in diameter and one-fourth inch in thickness, firmly adherent to the dura mater, which is perforated by two small openings one line in diameter. Around these openings, which are due to ulceration, the dura mater is thickened and soft, with slight discoloration of the inner surface over a space one inch in diameter. Private J. M. D., "M," 1st New Jersey Cavalry: near Burksville, Va., 6th April; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 11th May; died, 12th May, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Butler. FIG. 29. The vault of the cranium after per- foration by a bayonet. Spec. 2179.