33 B. A. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. B. Injuries of Cranial Bones not caused by Gunshot. Incised and Punctured Wounds. Ta. Primarily fatal. ! b. Operated upon fa J c. Operated upon 1) l^d. Secondary result loval of fragments, toff. t an operation. a. Primarily Fatal. 1612. The body of the sphenoid bone transfixed by a sword point from a. 1. below upward and backward, inclining to the right, with the extremity impinging against the right of the posterior clinoid processes, both of which are broken off. There is a complete transverse fracture of the body of the sphenoid passing through the sella turcica and sphenoidal cells. A pas- sage one line to the right would have avoided the clinoid processes. See figure 27. Private J. H., Hospital Guards, Lovell General Hospital, Portsmouth Grove, Rhode Island, 25: while intoxicated rushed at the sergeant of the guard and fell upon the point of a sword which rested firmly against the sergeant's hip; the point entered the nostril and penetrated five inches. Died in thirty-one hours. Contributed by Surgeon L. A. Edwards, U. S. Army. See 4628, XXVI. A. 2, 60. 971* A skull fractured by sabre cuts in the occipital and parietal bones. The most extensive cut extends from the a. 2. anterior portion of the middle third of the sagittal suture downward through the left parietal bone, crossing the lambdoidal suture, and extending to a point one inch above and to the right of the occipital protuberance, where a fissure extends forward nearly to the mastoid process. The second cut passes through the left parietal protuberance and extends from the frontal suture downward and backward four inches. The left parietal is much broken by these two cuts, and there is considerable loss of substance. A third cut is about two inches in length in the posterior internal angle of the right parietal, involving only the outer table. A fourth cut has carried away the left malar bone, with a small portion of the great wing of the sphenoid and the point of the zygoma. An Araucauian Indian, possibly not full-blood, killed in action by Chilian troops. Contributed by the Smithsonian Institution, through Professor S. F. Baird. 970. A skull exhibiting nine sabre cuts of the bones of the head and face. The a. 3. first and deepest cut is four inches in length, and passes nearly at a right angle across the coronal suture at the middle of the anterior border of the left parietal bone. Fissures from the extremities of the cut extend anteriorly to the superciliary ridge, and posteriorly to the root of the zygoma. The second cut, involving mainly only the external table, extends from one-half an inch external to the right temporal ridge horizontally inward to near the middle of the frontal bone. From the outer end a fissure extends backward to the right parietal protuberance, and from the inner end to the coronal suture. The third cut is three inches in length, and extends across the sagittal suture in its middle third. The fourth and fifth cuts, each about one and a half inches in length, are in the posterior part of the right parietal. The sixth cut, of the same length, is in the left parietal just above the junction of the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures. Neither of the last three passes through both tables. The seventh cut sliced off about one and a fourth square inches from the outer table of the inferior posterior angle of the left parietal. The eighth is a comparatively slight cut at the junction of the mastoid and squamous portions of the right temporal. The ninth cut passes transversely through the root of the nose and the orbital process of the right malar, severing the nasal and lachry- mal bones, the frontal and orbital processes of the right superior maxillary, the orbital processes of the mal zygoma and a portion of the inferior turbinated bones. The cranial wounds are remarkable for the (•leanness wit] are cut. See figure 28. An Araucanian Indian, killed in action by Chilian troops. Contributed by the Smithsonian Institution, through Professor S. F. Baird. .See class II. B. A. a. Fig. 28. A cranium exhibit Spec. 97 ar, the right a which they