OP THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. Gil B. B 1563. The greater part of a couoidal ball, beaten into a solid, irregular, ragged rectangle, two triangular fragments of d. 150. flat bones with each side three-fourths of an inch in length, and two-thirds of a circle of bone removed by the trephine: all evidently the result of a wound of the skull. Contributor and history unknown. See class I. A. B. c. 2643. A conoidal ball, with one side of the body obliquely flattened and grooved, extracted after death, d. 151. Private J. B., "A," 125th New York: entered between third and fourth ribs, three inches from the median line, and perforated the right lung, Gettysburg, 3d July; died, Baltimore, 9th July, 1863. The lung was compressed by three quarts of sero-purulent effusion. Contributed by Surgeon L. Quick, U. S. Vols. 4409. A conoidal ball, which shattered the tibia, split longitudinally to the base and flattened by backward bending, d. 152. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. Army. 4626. A conoidal ball, laterally compressed, with a longitudinal groove on one surface and irregularly battered along one d. 153. edge. A close examination shows the punctures made by an exploring needle. Second Lieutenant J. H. R., " K," 9th Virginia (Rebel) : ball entered the anterior surface of the middle third of the forearm, passed between the bones without fracture and lodged below the inner condyles of the humerus, Gettysburg, 3d July; extracted Jjy Surgeon T. H. Bache, U. S. Vols., Chester, Pennsylvania, 11th December, 1863. Contributed by the operator. See B'. 4411. A conoidal ball, flattened in both directions, as if by contact with the shaft of a large bone near the centre of the d. 154. missile. The apex is undisturbed in shape. Impact evidently occurred when the ball was revolving on its short axis and probably at a low velocity. From a femur fractured and necrosed. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. Army. 4402. A conoidal ball, laterally grooved into a large concavity by impact while revolving on its short axis. Entered d. 155. the inside of the middle of the thigh, (Rebel,) Pittsburgh Lauding, 7th April, and extracted behind the head of the fibula, 21st April, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon J. T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. 2735. A conoidal ball, with the apex compressed back upon the body, removed, after death, from the d. 156. anterior mediastinum. See figure J7U. Private J. A. S., "C," 145th Pennsylvania, 19: perforated left scapula below the spine, splintered the sternal end of the first rib and lodged behind the sternum, opposite the first intercostal space. Two quarts of sero-sanguinous fluid were found in the left pleura. Contributed by Surgeon L. Quick, U. S. Vols. itself. %c. 2?:i5. 3083. A much-battered conoidal ball, which entered the back of the right hip and emerged two and a half inches above d. 157. and internally to the right anterior superior spinous process, at Pittsburgh Landing. The apex is driven down upon the body, a fragment of which is borne back beyond the cup. Contributed by Surgeon J. T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. 2669. A conoidal ball, laterally compressed, with a deep longitudinal groove on the more flattened side, which entered d. 158. above the crest of the right ilium and lodged beneath the integument two and half inches from the median line. Private C. S., "E," 68th Pennsylvania: Gettysburg. Extracted by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. G. Srnull, Baltimore. Contributed by Surgeon L. Quick, U. S. Vols. 44 15. A conoidal ball, in two thin, unequal pieces, both longitudinally flattened from a comminuted fracture of the femur, d. 159. Contributed by Surgeon A. B. Hasson, U. S. Army. 4418. Two distorted fragments from the base of a conoidal ball, with three small pieces of the laminated structure of d. 160. the femur. Private L. F. M., "A," 142d Pennsylvania: ball entered six inches above the knee and struck the femur above the outer condyle one and a half inches from the extremity, Fredericksburg, Kith December, 1862; it crushed through the outer table and was found impinging on the articular surface, which was fractured but not displaced. The synovial cavity was uninjured, no constitutional symptoms supervened and the joint remained perfect to 26th March, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. S. Frink, U. S. Vols. See class XIV. A. B. a.