39 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. C.B. 614. A wet preparation of the dura mater from the vertex of the cranium, thickened, softened, and having a deposit of b. 3. pus and lymph upon its inner surface, one inch to the right of the longitudinal sinus and extending over a space two inches in diameter. In this case there was contusion of the cranium by a musket ball, resulting in death from tetanus on the twenty-second day. The external surface of the membrane is unchanged, and the deposit of lymph internally is thin and not firmly adherent. Private C. K„ "K," 130th Pennsylvania: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 20th December, 1862; died, 4th January, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. See 613, I. A. A. c, 3. 1923. A segment of the dura mater from the vertex of the cranium, extensively diseased, the result of a gunshot injury b. 4. of the left parietal bone. The internal surface of the membrane is of a dark greenish color for five inches antero- posteriorly and three inches in breadth, including the walls of the longitudinal sinus. This is due to a deposit of false membrane, thin, fragile and easily separable at the edges, but becoming thicker, firmer and more closely adherent in the centre. On either side of the sinus appear fringe-like tufts, or nipple-like processes of the dura mater, in several of which bone has been produced. The body of the membrane is thick and soft, and externally there is a distinct dark line of demarcation around the diseased portion, corresponding with the edge of the necrosed bone which lay above it. Suppuration has occurred on both surfaces, the lining membrane of the longitudinal sinus has lost its polish, &nd a few small yellowish coagula remain firmly adherent to its surface. Private W. McP., "A," 101st Ohio: Chickamauga, 20th September; admitted hospital, Nashville, 24th September; died, 14th October, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. J. Kipp, U. S. Vols. See 1922, I. A. A. c. 14. 966. A wet preparation of a section of the dura mater from the left parietal bone, perforated as the result of gunshot b. 5. injury. The opening is oval, measuring three-fourths by one-half an inch. The edges are thickened and softened, with deposit of lymph on the internal surface. On the external surface, one inch from the opening, there is a partial ring of dark spots caused by coagulated blood. Private P. E., "I," 10th New York: Fredericksburg, 13th December; -admitted hospital, Washington, 19th; trephined the same day; died, 22d December, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon J. C. Dorr, U. S. Vols. See 528, I. A. B. c. 22; 965, I. C. B. b. 21. 1011. Dura mater from the vertex of the cranium, perforated at the side of the longitudinal sinus, apparently as a b. 6. result of gunshot injury. The opening measures one by one and one-half inches; its edges are thickened with a deposit of lymph and brain substance on the inner surface. In this case there was probably hernia cerebri. Private J. McC, " B," 24th Texas Cavalry, (Rebel,) 23: Arkansas Post, 10th January; admitted hospital, St. Louis, 22d January; died, 8th February, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. See 1013, I. A. B. b. 46. 514. A wet preparation of the encephalon, showing perforation of the dura mater and abscess in the upper part of the b. 7. anterior lobe of the left half of the cerebrum, extending to the median line, caused by a fragment of shell. The corpus callosum and fornix are destroyed, and both lateral ventricles are freely opened. The opening in the dura mater measures one-half by one inch. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. W. Williams, U. S. Army. 957. A wet preparation of the encephalon with engorgement of the blood vessels, and coagula of blood at the base b. 8. of the cerebrum. At the posterior notch of the cerebellum a thin layer of coagula is seen in the left fissure of Sylvius, the result of a gunshot injury. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Moss, U. S. Vols. See 952, I. A. B. a. 9; 953, XXII. A. b. a. 1. 1059. A wet preparation of a portion of the cerebrum, with a small abscess in the upper part of the anterior lobe of the b. 9. right hemisphere communicating with the lateral ventricle, probably the result of contusion of the cranium by a musket ball. On the external surface of the brain, one-half inch to the right of the longitudinal fissure, there is a dark spot with disorganization of the brain substance, and the surrounding part of the surface of the brain for three inches in diameter is discolored and shows traces of suppurative action. The cavity of the abscess will contain about half a fluid ounce. Contributor and history unknown. 2219. A wet preparation of a part of the cerebrum, with a cavity in the posterior and external portion of the right b. 10. lobe caused by gunshot injury. The cavity communicates with the lateral ventricle, and is the size of an English walnut. A small flattened hernia cerebri protrudes through an opening of the dura mater one-half inch in diameter. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Joseph Leidy.