CATALOGUE OK THE SURGICAL SECTION XVIII. II. 458 1491. A wet preparation of the upper portion of the left leg, showing a wound of the anterior tibial artery. The tibia a. 26. was perforated by a bullet striking it on its anterior border a little below the knee, shattering the fibula in its escape. "Before being transferred to the boat he had two severe attacks of secondary haemorrhage. No attempt having been made to arrest it by ligatiug the artery in the wound, or by tying the femoral, he was so far exhausted when received that an operation could not have been performed." Contributed from Hospital Transport " D. A. January,"' Mississippi river, by Surgeon A. H. Hoff, U. S. Vols. 1698. A wet preparation of the upper portion of the bones and interosseous tissue of the right leg, showing traumatic a. 27. aneurisms of both tibial arteries. Private J. H., "C." 22d Massachusetts, 19: a couoidal ball passed between the bones three inches below the knee, Gettysburg, 2d July; admitted hospital, Baltimore, Uth; slight haemorrhage, '21st and 22d July; amputated in lowest third of thigh for secondary haemorrhage and incipient gangrene of the loot, 5th August; died from pyaemia, 16th August, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon C. W. Jones, U. S. Vols. See class XXIII. A. c. 3653. A wet preparation of the posterior tibial artery, severed by a couoidal ball which fractured the fibula, a. 28. Private H. C, "I," 24th Michigan: Wilderness, 6th May; two inches of the shaft of the fibula excised, Washington, 19th ; thigh amputated lowest third for mortification, 22d; died, 27th May, L864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. Allen, U. S. Army. 875. A wet preparation of the posterior tibial artery showing ulceration of the coats, from a case of secondary haemor- a. 29. rhage after gunshot. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon K. F. Weir, U. S. Army. 1718. A preparation of the popliteal artery, with its continuations. The anterior tibial and femoral are ulcerated near a. 30. their origins. Amputation was performed in the thigh. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Byrne, U. S. Army. For other illustrations, see 2430, XX. A. B. a. 5; 4537, XXVII. B. is. d. 111. b. Ligated in Continuity. 2607. A wet preparation of portions of the arch of the aorta, the innominata, left common carotid and subclavian arteries, b. 1. ternrinating at the point of ineffectual ligation of the left subclavian in its third portion. The specimen shows separation of the coats with no formation of clot. Private S. R. P., "D," 14th U. S. Infantry: arm amputated near the shoulder for shell wound, Chancellorsville, lid May. admitted hospital, with erysipelas, from Washington, Philadelphia, 17th Juue; haemorrhage, 8th July; haemorrhage and ligation of subclavian, 9th ; haemorrhage at point of ligation and digital compression substituted, 10th ; died, 18th July. [863 Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon D. Kennedy. See class XXIII. A. A. 1684. A wet preparation of the left subclavian artery, forty-six days after ligation in the third portion for traumatic b. 2. aneurism of the axiilary after gunshot, and twenty-eight days after the ligature came away. Captain J. F. J , "B," 13th Virginia Cavalry, (Rebel,) 31 : a carbine ball passed through the brachial plexus of nerves and cut the auxiliary artery one and a half inches above its termination, Middleburg, Va , 21st June ; admitted hospital, Washington, 23d June; a circumscribed traumatic aneurism at the seat of injury appeared, 12th July; subclavian ligated at the external border of scalenus by Surgeon John A. Lidell, U. S. Vols., 14th; aneurismal sac opened spontaneously, 19th July ; ligature separated without ha'morrhage, 1st August; profuse ha-morrhage from the sac. arrested by injection of solution of persulphate of iron, 6th; haemorrhage recurred, 10th, 11th, and 18th; died, exhausted with the suppuration and the haemorrhages, 29th August, 1863. Contributed by the operator. See 3243, XXII. A. it. b. 2. 3634. A wet preparation of the right subclavian, supposed to have been ligated (probably for secondary ha'morrhage, b. 3. alter fracture of the scapula and clavicle). Private L. R., "D," 16th Peuusylvania Cavalry. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. F. Atlee. See 3650, IV. A. B. b. 31. 4331. A wet preparation of the right subclavian artery, ligated in its third portion for secondary ha'morrhage from the b. 4. subscapular. The suprascapular and transversalis colli arose too near the point of ligation to permit the formation of a clot on the proximal side. The distal portion of the artery contained a large coagulum. The subscapular had sloughed near its origin in the track of the missile. The subclavian vein was found open in the track of the wound.