CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION I. 16 2998. Nine fragments, embracing one and one-fourth square inches of the right parietal bone, removed by operation. b. 20. Private , 173d New York, 40: Port Hudson, La., 14th June; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 17th June, 1863. The specimen was removed the same day. Transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps entirely well. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Connor, U. S. Army. 991. The vault of the cranium, with perforation of the frontal bone just in front of the anterior inferior angle of the b. 21. right parietal caused by a buckshot. The opening is nearly circular, with rounded edges, and measures three- fourths of an inch in diameter. Two minute depressed fragments of the inner table adhere to the edge; all the others have been removed. Private W. M. W., "F," 19th Georgia, (Rebel,) 18: probably Fredericksburg, Pith December; admitted hospital, Washington, 23d December, 18(52; "phthisis * * * effectually marked the brain symptoms until a few hours before death." Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. A. Harvey. 3508. A section of the frontal bone, perforated just externally to its left eminence, with extensive caries and necrosis b. 22. of the surrounding portion of the inner table. The opening measures three-fourths of an inch from right to left, and one inch from above downward. All the fragments have been removed. The inner table is necrosed and partially removed for two square inches of surface, extending down upon the orbital plate, which is perforated. Contributed by Surgeon Robert Wai. Pounds. 2506. Three fragments of bone from the cranium, involving a little over one square inch of the inner table, removed b. 23. by operation, for the relief of fracture with depression caused by a musket ball. Corporal J. B., "D," ]t)3d Pennsylvania, 49: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th; died, 12th June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols. 1196. A segment of frontal bone, perforated a little to the right of the. median line by a musket ball. The opening is b. 24. elliptical and measures one-half by one inch, and is surrounded by a ring of bone in process of separation, the line of demarcation having formed. Private N. O., "E," 44th New York: Chaucellorsville, 2d May; fragments of bone and a brass figure 4 from his cap removed on the field from the substance of the brain, by Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U.S. Army; treated in Fifth Corps Field Hospital, and died 27th May, 18133. The missile was not found. Contributed by Surgeon A. M. Clark, U. S. Vols. 2271. The vault of the cranium, penetrated at the auterior superior angle of the left parietal bone by a musket ball, a b. 25. part of which is attached. Fragments have been removed from a space measuring three-fourths by one inch, the edges of the opening being much beveled at the expense of the inner table. The fragment of ball was removed from the tentorium after death, and is flattened and encrusted with phosphatic deposit. Unknown: admitted hospital, Alexandria, 14th May, 1864, and died the same day. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Cass. See class XX VII. B. B. d. 3051. A segment of cranium, fractured by a fragment of shell at the lower border of the left parietal bone. Fragments b. 26. have been removed, leaving an elliptical opening one inch from above downward and one-half inch in width. There is a short fissure of the inner table, with depression of one edge to the extent of one line. The edge of the opening shows marks of the action of the bone-gouge forceps. There has been no attempt at repair. Private C. B., "H," 2d Michigan, 36: Petersburg, 17th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 21st; died, 30th June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon R. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols. 2539. The vault of the cranium, showing a fracture of the frontal bone at the coronal suture, just behind the left b. 27. frontal eminence, caused by a conoidal ball, which is attached. The opening in the bone is one inch in diameter, the amount of the vitreous table removed being the greater. The ball is traversed by a broad deep groove from point to base. Private G. H., "E," 122d New York, 32: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th; ball and fragments of bone removed by operation, 8th; died, 10th June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon J. C. MeKee, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 1724. The vault of the cranium, fractured with depression of the inner table, just above the right parietal eminence, by b. 28. a fragment of shell. The patient survived five months. Fragments have been removed, leaving a nearly circular opening one inch in diameter, with the edges rounded off and beveled at the expense of the inner table. Three small fragments of the inner table, depressed one-fourth inch at their free edges, remain attached and agglutinated by new ossific deposit, traces of which are seen in the immediate vicinity. Hernia cerebri and abscess of the brain were found at the autopsy.