CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 62 III. 3851. A wet preparation of the third, fourth and fifth cervical vertebra, of which the anterior portion of the body of the a. 20. fourth on the left side is fractured by a bullet, which is attached. The vertebra has been sawn open, which must not be mistaken for the original injury. The man was wounded by two pistol balls ; "one entered half an inch inferior to the clavicle near the middle of the insertion of the pectoralis major, passing in a posterior, lateral direction through the apex of the right lung, and lodged near the middle of the posterior border of the left scapula," and was removed in hospital; the other fractured the skull. "The clavicle and first rib were fractured at the wound of entrance, and the fourth and fifth ribs fractured near the spine. The second ball had lodged near the third cervical vertebra." "A small amount of pus was pent up in the body of the sphenoid." Private G. E., "A," 2d Texas Cavalry: Brownsville, Texas, 4th June; complained of pain in upper part of neck, 25th September; died, 20th October, 1865. The right lung was disorganized. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. H. Norris. See classes I. A. B. d.; IV. A. B. b.; XXVI. B. B. d. For other illustrations, see 2411, IV. A. A. b. 3; 2448, IV. A. B. a. 8; 4092, V. A. B. b. 36; 3790, V. A. B. b. 14! 1656, XI. A. B. b. 2; 4486, XXVII. B. B. d. 58; 4623, XXVII. B. B. d. 178. b. Involving the Cord. 683. The fourth and part of the third lumbar vertebrae, after fracture by a pistol ball which is attached. The bullet b. 1. entered near the posterior superior angle of the right ilium, slightly fractured its superior border, glanced upward over the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, deflected against the lower border of the spinous process of h e third, penetrated the spinal foramen through the posterior arch of the fourth, separating its upper portion, again turning downward rested within the fourth, having fractured the right inferior articular process. A considerable part of the bullet was detached. The bullet rested within the leash of nerves forming the cauda equina. Private T. K., alias J. B., "A," 6th U. S. Cavalry, 28: accidentally, Pelton, Texas, 26th March; admitted post hospital, (sixty miles distant,) Austin, 18th April; loss of sensation in the lower extremity; motor power partial and irregular ; excessive pain toward the close of life; died, 28th May, 1866. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Cyrus Bacon, U. S. Army. 2999. The right halves of the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrae. A pistol ball lodged b. 2. against the right transverse process of the seventh, which it shattered. The pedicle of the seventh and inferior articular facet of the sixth are fractured. Partial paralysis of the left extremity at once occurred, and for the last three weeks it was complete below the wound. Pus was found in the theca at the autopsy. Captain J. H., "A," 67th Indiana: Carrion Crow, La., 3d November; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 9th November; died, 19th December, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon S. H. Orton, IT. S. Army. 1694. Several cervical vertebrae, showing fractures from gunshot of the anterior portions of the bodies of the second, b. 3. third, and fourth, which are necrosed at the points of impact. The canal has been opened by ulceration between the bodies of the third and fourth. Contributor and history unknown. 806. The first four lumbar vertebra, with a conoidal ball, which fractured the left pedicle and transverse process of the b. 4. third, embedded. The bullet is embraced by the fractured bone, which has been consolidated by the deposition of callus. The ball entered half-way from the twelfth rib to the crest of the ilium, penetrating neither the abdominal nor peritoneal cavity. Paralysis of the sphincter existed for three days before death, indicating the involvmeut of the cord. Private S. R., 14th Indiana: Antietam, 17th September; died, Frederick, 23d October, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W Keen, jr. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3985. The first six cervical vertebrae three months after injury. A battered conoidal ball, which fractured the inferior b. 5. maxilla and passed through the pharynx, is lodged in the third, the body of which is transversely fractured and much necrosed. The entire left half of the bone is shatteredj and necrosis has involved the adjoining vertebrae. The canal was ultimately opened by necrosis and the cord became softened. Private J. S., "D,"6th Alabama, (Rebel,) 18: Gettysburg, 1st July; slight pain in the neck noticed, Frederick, 1st September; abscess in the neck opened, 12th; partial paralysis occurred, 19th; complete paralysis, 21st; died, 28th September, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See. 3979, II. A. B. f. 1 ; 3978, XXIX. A. B. a. 37 See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3119. The twelfth dorsal vertebra fractured on the lower portion of the right side by a pistol ball. The track of the b. 6. missile is carious. Private J. McS., 2d New York Cavalry, 35: admitted hospital, Alexandria, 28th October; died, after excessive haematemesis, 18th November, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon Edwin Bentley, U. S. Vols. See 3500, III. A. B. b. 7.