I. 30 CATALOGUE OF THK SURGICAL SECTION 849. A skull perforated and extensively fissured, apparently by a musket ball which entered one inch above and a a. 5. little behiud the middle of the lower border of the left parietal bone and passed out above and iu front of the right parietal eminence. The opening of entrance is three-fourths of an inch in diameter. That of exit is one inch in diameter, the edge being beveled at the expense of the outer table. From the opening of entrance one fissure of both tables passes to the internal angle of the left orbit, a second to the posterior inferior angle, a third to the posterior fourth of the superior border, and a fourth to the anterior superior angle of the left parietal bone, the latter continuing through the frontal to the great ala of the sphenoid, which, together with the posterior portion of the right orbital plate, is separated and removed. Another fissure separates the squamous portion of the right temporal bone. Contributed by Surgeon Jerome B. Green. 1218. A cranium perforated by a musket ball, which entered just above the anterior inferior angle of the right parietal a. 6. and emerged below and behind the protuberance of the left parietal bones. The opening of entrance is one inch in diameter; that of exit, the edge of which is beveled at the expense of the outer table, one and one-fourth inches. A fissure extends from the first opening to the centre of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Unknown, Lieutenant, 2d South Carolina (Rebel): killed at South Mountain, 14th September, J862. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols. 1317. A cranium traversed from above downward by a rifle ball, which entered the frontal bone one and a half inches a. 7. above the right frontal eminence and passed out at the base of the skull through the junction of the body with the right great ala of the sphenoid bone, just in front of the extremity of the petrous portion of the right temporal. The superior opening is elliptical, measuring one-half by one inch; the inferior is nearly circular, and is one and a half inches in diameter. Unknown, Longstreet's Corps (Rebel): Second Bull Run, 30th August, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon F. Wolf, 39th New York. 848. A cranium perforated and extensively fractured, apparently by a musket ball which entered the occipital bone a a. 8. little to the left of the centre of the superior curved line and passed out to the right and in front of the foramen magnum, carrying away the basilar process and the extremity of the petrous portion of the right temporal bone. The anterior portion of the margin of the foramen magnum, including both condyles, is removed. The left parietal is divided into three nearly equal parts by fissures which radiate from the parietal eminence; one to the opening of entrance of the ball, one to the middle of the sagittal suture, and one to the anterior inferior angl From the battle-field of Bull Run. Contributed by Surgeon Jerome B. Green. 1318. A cranium extensively fractured, probably by a musket ball, which a. 9. entered an inch above the centre of the posterior border of the left parietal and passed out through the squamous portion of the left temporal, comminuting and carrying it away, together with a part of the great ala of the sphenoid. The left parietal is fissured and comminuted. The petrous portion of the left temporal is fractured at the base, and the mastoid portion is split in two. The right orbital plate is separated and slightly depressed, and there are two fissures one inch in length, one behind and the other in front of the right external angular process of the frontal, with another through the body of the superior maxilla. These last injuries are not in any way connected with the track of the missile, and were probably caused by contre-coup. See figure 26. Unknown, Longstreet's Corps (Rebel): killed at Second Bull Run. Contributed by Surgeon Fred. Wolf, 39th New York. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 21. See A'. See class II. A. A. e. 1167. A cranium perforated and extensively fractured, probably by grape shot, which entered at the posterior inferior a. 10. angle of the left parietal bone and passed out at the right orbit, carrying away the petrous portion of the left temporal, the body of the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the right malar, all the bones composing the nasal fossse and the upper, inner and lower walls of the orbits, and the body of the right superior maxilla. The occipital bone is traversed by a fissure which crosses the foramen magnum. The frontal, left parietal and left temporal bones are comminuted. Unknown (Rebel): killed at Antietam. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols. 3251. A cranium perforated and extensively fractured, apparently by a musket ball, which entered at the antero- a. 11. inferior angle of the right parietal and passed out at the posterior fontauelle. The cranial wall around the point of entrance is comminuted and removed for eight square inches of its surface, including the squamous portion of the temporal and the extremity of the great ala of the sphenoid. The opening of exit is one inch in diameter, the edge being beveled at the expense of the outer table. A fissure of both tables crosses the frontal bone below the FrG. 26. Perforation with extensive frac- ture of the cranium by a musket ball. Spec. 3318.