A. B. 173 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. See class VII. A. A. c. 2208. The bones of the right forearm and the lower half of the humerus, amputated after excision of the elbow. The f. 108. radius was obliquely fractured in the upper third of the shaft, and has partially united with some displacement. Another oblique, fracture just below the head has also united. The line of excision cut off the head of the radius and the coronoid process of the ulna. The lower third of the humerus was excised, and the extremity of the shaft is necrosed. Private J. R. R., " F," 65th Ohio: Ckickamauga, 19th September; admitted hospital, Nashville, 11th November; excised, 13th; amputated three inches below the shoulder, 26th November, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. H. Matlack. See class VII. A. B. d. 2076. The upper halves of the bones of the left forearm and lower portion of the humerus, amputated at the surgical f. 109. neck six weeks after injury. The ulna was shattered an inch below the coronoid process and an abscess involved the joint. All the articular surfaces are necrosed and partly absorbed. The upper part of the humerus was cut away for the convenience of shipment to the museum. Private S. R., "I," 58th Indiana: Chickamauga, 19th September ; admitted hospital, suffering with chronic diarrhoea and with the arm erysipelatous, Tullahoma, Tenn., 25th September: amputated, 3d November, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Surgeon Benjamin Woodward, 22d Illinois. See class XXIII. A. A. 969. The lower half of the right humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm. A conoidal ball struck f. 110. between the olecranon and outer condyle and was extracted midway between the elbow and shoulder three months afterward. The head of radius has nearly disappeared under absorption following fracture. The ulnar processes are not distinguishable, but several splinters are irregularly attached by callus to the extremity of that bone. The lower extremity of the humerus was comminuted, fragments covered with foliaceous callus are partially attached in irregular posi- tions, and the extremity of the main body of the shaft is carious. Private H. W., 27th Ohio: Corinth, Miss.,4th October; admitted hospital, Jackson, Tenn., 13th December, 1862; attacked with erysipelas, 29th January ; upon the subsidence of which, amputation at the surgical neck was performed, 6th February; died, 17th February, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Joseph P. Wright, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A. A. 773. The lowest third of the right humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm. The outer condyle has f. 111. been shot away. Private M. S., " K," 26th New York: Antietam, 17th September ; admitted hospital, Frederick, 19th; amputated at the shoulder joint, for sphacelas following erysipelas, by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army, 3d October; died, 12th October, 1862. Contributed by the operator. See classes V. A. B. d. ; XXIII. A. A. 205. The right forearm and lower half of the humerus. The head of the radius has been carried away and an oblique f. 112. fracture extends for two inches down the shaft. The articular surface is destroyed by ulceration, and amputation of the humerus in its middle third has probably been made. The specimen also exhibits an old consolidated simple fracture of the radius. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. See class VIII. B. b. b. 322. The lowest third of the right humerus, amputated for oblique fracture near the inner condyle with loss of the f. 113. posterior portion of the trochlea. Private C. W., "F," 20th New York, 30: Second Bull Run, 30th August; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 2d September; amputated by Assistant Surgeon Alfred Delaney, U. S. Vols., 5th September, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon John E. Summers, U S. Army. 3921. The upper third of the right radius, with an oblique fracture of the upper two inches extending through the f. 114. head. The articular surface is carious. Sergeant J. G. E., "D," 1st North Carolina (Rebel): Gettysburg, 1st July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 6th; amputated in the middle third, 20th July, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. M. Paullin. 3397. The bones of the right forearm and the lower extremity of the humerus. Two and a half inches from the upper f. 115. and middle thirds of the radius have been primarily excised. The humerus is obliquely fractured with the loss of the inner condyle, and secondary amputation has been performed in the lowest third. The two injuries are independent. Contributor and history unknown.