XXVI. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 578 4656. A large photograph of an enchondroma of the right scapula. It extended from just outside the vertebral column A. 16. and parallel to it over the right shoulder, involving two-thirds of the clavicle and the upper six inches of the humerus. It was of almost bony hardness, of very irregular outline and firm attachment at the base. The skin was movable, excepting a small inflamed spot on the outside where there was some tendency to ulceration. The measurements were: circumference of the base forty-five inches; antero-posterior circumference, including the axilla, thirty-nine inches; antero- posterior, transverse and vertical diameters, each fourteen inches. Weight after death, three mouths later, thirty-one pounds. , farmer, 20, Salem, Conn.: general health always good; tumor grew slowly for seven and rapidly for three years: photographs and measurements made, Boston, December, lt?03; died from exhaustion following sloughing of the veins, March, 1864. Autopsy showed the tumor pure enchondroma. For particulars, see Boston MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL, Vol. LXX, No. 9, p. 169, 31st March, 1864. Contributed by Professor J. B. S. Jackson. 1655. Seven photographs, mounted together, representing the superior maxilla removed for disease, and the condition of A. 17. the patient before and after two plastic operations for relief of the deformity. Private C. B.: operated upon by Dr. Gurdon Buck, of New York. Contributed by the operator. For complete history, see 4252-4, XXV. C. A. 2, 3, 4. 3444. A large photograph, exhibiting the cicatrix of a sabre wound diagonally across the zygomatic region of the right A. 18. check. This is an interesting specimen of a very rare class. Major General A. A., U. S. Vols. : the wound was received at the battle of Debreczic, in the Hungarian Revolution, early in 1819. Photographed at the Army Medical Museum, 1866. 42 lO. Two photographs, representing a colored man before and after the removal of an immense tumor from the left parotid A. 19. region. The operation was performed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols., in the spring of 1866) and was entirely successful. Photographed at the Army Medical Museum. B. Drawings. 4649. A portfolio of fifty-six drawings of surgical cases, executed on sheets of fifteen by eighteen inches by Hospital B. 1. Steward Stauch, U. S. Army, by order of the Surgeon General. 4647. A volume of thirty drawings of surgical cases, on sheets nine by twelve inches, accompanied with histories. B. 2. Contributed by Surgeon D. L. Young, 21st Ohio. 4648. A volume of twenty-three drawings of surgical cases, from Armory Square U S. Army General Hospital,NY ashiugton, B. 3. on sheets of six by eight inches. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. 4650. A portfolio of thirty-two drawings of surgical cases, executed, by order of the Surgeon General, by Hospital B. 4. Stewards Baumgras, Schultze and Faber. 4652. A portfolio of fourteen drawings of surgical cases, executed, by order of the Surgeon General, by Hospital Steward B. 5. Pohlers, U. S. Army. 4653. A portfolio of thirty-six drawings of surgical cases, executed by various artists. B. 6.