Gli III. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION See 298, VIII. A. B. a. 1 ; 299, XIX. B. a. a. 1; 301, XXII. B. A. c. 1 ; 302, XXII. B. a. c. 3. 2766. The first three and a section of the fourth lumbar vertebrae. The third and fourth are obliquely perforated by b. 33. a conoidal bullet, which carried away the right transverse process of the fourth, entered that vertebra just anterior to its root, and passing trausversely upward lodged about the middle of the left side of the body of the third vertebra. The body of the third vertebra on the right side appears to have been injured by another missile of small size, but it is not mentioned in the history. Caries marks the track of each bullet. A section made after death passes through both wounds in the third vertebra. The cord was impinged upon by a displaced fragment of the fourth vertebra. The conoidal bullet, sawn obliquely, is mounted with the specimen. Private G. D., "I," 26th Pennsylvania: Gettysburg, 1st July; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 13th; the bullet could not be found, although a vertebral fracture was detected ; there was no paralysis of sensation or motion, but great pain in the wound was complained of; became much worse, '20th; died, 24th July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon .Win. V. Keating. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3478. Several of the dorsal vertebrae, showing an old transverse fracture with lateral displacement of the body oi b. 34. the seventh. There is no history to the case, but death does not appear to have been prompt. Received from hospital Second Division, Twentieth Corps. 717. A wet preparation from the lower portion of the spinal cord severed by a conoidal ball between the twelfth b. 35. dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, which were transversely fractured. The eleventh and twelfth ribs on the right side were fractured also. The cord is ragged at the point of section, and the lower portion, which has lost its sheath, is congested. Private W. S. L., " C," 32d Iowa, 32: before Nashville, 10th December, 1864; died, exhausted, 4th January, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon S. C. Ayres, U. S. Vols. See 4710, XXVII. B. B. d, 214. 796. Portions of the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrae. The transverse processes of the seventh and b. 36. eighth and the spinous process of the eighth are fractured and the canal opened. There are trivial osseous deposits. Private A. C, "C," 32d New York: admitted hospital, with paraplegia and hyperaethesia of the crural nerves, Washington, 14th May, 1862; died from pyaemia. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Byrne, U. S. Army. JJ)» Injuries not caused by Gunshot. fa. Involving the bones only. A. Recent Condition, £ ^L, Id. Dislocations. a. Involving the Bones Only. 300. A ligamentous preparation of the axis and atlas, showing an absence of dislocation after execution by hanging, a. 1. The transverse ligament was slightly nicked in the autopsy, but not sufficiently to permit any displacement. This specimen, with others from the same case, is good evidence of the mode of death in some cases of hanging. Captain H. W. (Rebel): hung by sentence of military commission, Washington, 10th November, 1865. Contributed by Brevet Major W. Thomson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army.