II. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 48 1881. A wet preparation of the right half of the lower jaw, fractured and comminuted at the first molar tooth by a b. 4. musket ball which passed downward, inward, and backward, beneath the root of the tongue, and contused the bodies of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae. The fragments remain in position, and there has been no attempt al repair. There were no indications of spinal injury during life. The ball was not discovered, and the subject declared he had spit it out. Private G. A. A., "C," 20th New York, 35: probably Gettysburg, 3d July; died, of pyaemia, Philadelphia, 21st July, 18G3. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Joseph Leidy. See 1867, 111. A. B. a. 1. 1151. A wet preparation of the right side of the body of the inferior maxilla, fractured and comminuted by a musket b. 5. ball at the angle. A fragment containing the molar teeth is driven inward, and other fragments remain in situ, the total amount of boue shattered being two inches The ball lodged in the thyroid cartilage, causing death by suffocation on the nineteenth day. Corporal T. A. W., "K," 111th New York, 22: Gettysburg, 3d July: admitted hospital, Baltimore, 15th; died, 22d July, Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles. See 1440, XIX. A. 1$. a. 1. 3535. The inferior maxilla, fractured by a musket ball from the alveolar ridge on the right side obliquely downward b. 6. and to the left, crossing the symphysis. A large fragment of the alveolar border on the left side, containing five teeth, is detached and necrosed. No attempt at repair; the patient died of pyemia. Private J. B., "C," 20th New York: wounded, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 20th; died, from pyaemia, 29th May, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 2182. The right ramus of the inferior maxilla, fractured by a musket ball and removed by operation. The line of fracture b. 7. is nearly perpendicular to the angle, and the external plate is fissured from the posterior border of the coronoid process to the angle. There is slight necrosis with deposit of new ossific matter near the fractured edge. The patient died of secondary haemorrhage, for which the carotid was ligated. Private J. R., "B,"63d New York: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 13th; carotid ligated, 31st May; died, 1st June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon G. L. Pancoast, U. S. Vols. See 2481, XVIII. II. A. B. b. 45. 1216. The right half of the inferior maxilla, with eight fragments from the palatine process of the superior maxilla, b. 8. fractured by a musket ball. The body of the lower jaw is comminuted from the ramus to the right canine tooth, the alveolar ridge is partially removed, and the posterior molars are broken in their sockets. A fissure separates the coronoid process, and the inferior dental foramen is involved in the fracture. The patient died, of secondary haemorrhage, on the ninth day. Corporal R. J. F., "F," 60th New York, 22: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May ; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th; died, 11th May, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon O. A. Judson, U. S. Vols. 2731. The left ramus of the inferior maxilla, with two molar teeth attached, fractured, probably by gunshot, near the b. 9. angle and slightly necrosed. One line of fracture crosses the ramus horizontally three-fourths of an inch above the angle; from the auterior third of this a second passes downward and forward to the lower border of the body of the bone, one and a half inches in front of the angle, opening in its course the inferior dental canal for one inch in length. A small fragment of bone remains attached to the root of one of the molar teeth. Contributor and history unknown. 1635. Four large fragments of bone and a tooth from the right side of the inferior maxilla. The fragments include the b. 10. whole of the ramus with the condyle and coronoid process and a part of the body. Sergeant A. F., "D," 11th Indiana, 25: before Vicksburg, 24th June; admitted hospital-steamer "Crescent City," 7th July; common carotid ligated, 8th ; died, 10th July, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon J. T. Hodgeu, U. S. Vols. See 1636, XVIII. II. A. B. b. !'.». 3206. The body of the lower jaw fractured, comminuted and necrosed. Fractures cross the bone at the symphysis and b. 11. at the last molar tooth on each side, and other fissures connect them. A fragment of the external table of the right ramus, one and one-fourth inches in length, remains attached. Section has been made by a saw just behind the last molar tooth on the left side. Received, without history, from City Point.