A. 13. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 203 487. The ulna and upper half of the radius, the metacarpus and portion of the carpus of the right forearm. The radius f. 27. was shattered in the lowest third, the fracture extending into the joint. For this the lower half of the radius was removed. The excised extremity is irrregular and carious, and does not present the marks of a clean-cutting instrument. The lower extremity of the ulna is carious and the carpal bones are thoroughly diseased, the greater portion of the first row having disappeared under absorption. Both articulations of the metacarpals show carious conditions. Private M. E. J., " F," 94th New York : Antietam, 17th September ; lower half of the radius excised by Acting Assistant Surgeon Boardman, Washington, 15th October ; amputated in the arm, 19th December ; died 150th December, I-<;■_'. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Jamar. See class VIII. A. b. c; IX. A. B. d. 993. The two lower thirds of the bones of the right forearm. The missile passed obliquely and transversely through f. 28. the lower extremities of the bones and fractured the carpus, escaping over the second metacarpal bone. The radius became necrosed for four inches, to which distance a detached sequestrum, confined by a tolerable involucnun, may be seen in the specimen. The carpal extremities became anchylosed and the joint entirely disorganized. Private J. A., 33d New York, 50: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Point Lookout, Md., lGth December, 1862; amputated below the elbow by Acting Assistant Surgeon James W. Digby, 8th January ; inter-osseous artery ligated, 8th and 11th; died from pyaemia, about the close of January, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. Wagner, U. S. Army. See class XVIII. II. A. B b. 3253. The lower halves of the bones of the right forearm and three of the carpal bones. The lowest two inches of the f. 29. radius have been carried away and the extremity is necrosed. The ulna is necrosed for four inches from the joint. Corporal F. P., "B," 7th New York, 31: Weldon R. R , Va., 25th August; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th August; amputated in the middle third of the forearm by Acting Assistant Surgeon Belton, 19th September; died exhausted, 24th October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean 1783. The left carpus and metacarpus and the greater portion of the bones of the forearm. Two oblique fractures from f. 30. the carpal articulation comminute the lowest two inches of the radius, the semilunar bone is fractured and the ulna is nearly transversely broken just above its extremity. A prolonged effort has been made to save the limb, as is seen by the roughened condition of the shaft, and amputation was probably finally performed below the elbow. Received, without history, from Nashville. 1138. The bones adjoining the right wrist joint. The lower extremity of the ulna and the cuneiform bone are shattered, f. 31. and the radius is chipped. Private A. C, "D," 95th Pennsylvania: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 19th; amputated below the elbow, on account of extensive sinuses, by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. H. Ensign, 20th May, 1863; discharged the service, 10th August, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 3660. The lowest thirds of the bones of the left forearm, with the first row of carpal bones. The scaphoid and f. 32. articulating surface of the radius are shattered by the direct passage of a conoidal ball. Private J. C. P., "E," 19th Maine, 43: Petersburg, 23d June; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 30th .June : amputated in the middle third for secondary haemorrhage by Acting Assistant Surgeon Charles Styer, 14th July; sequestrum removed from the radius, 14th November, 1864; discharged the service, 26th May, 1865. Contributed by the operator. . See 511, VIII. A. B. g. 3. 332. The lower extremities of the bones of the right forearm, the carpus and metacarpus. A transversely grooved f. 33. fracture across the back of the wrist involves the bases of the second, third and fourth metacarpals. The greater portion of the shaft of the second metacarpal is necrosed and the cuneiform is fractured. Private J. P. G., "F," 27th Indiana, 33: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Washington, the latter part of the month; amputated above the elbow by Assistant Surgeon J. J. Woodward, U. S. Army, 13th November, 1862. Died. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. P. Williams. 4072. The left carpus and metacarpus. The index-metacarpal, trapezoid and part of the magnum were fractured, and f. 34. part of the metacarpal is said to have been excised. Private D. L. C, " I," 61st New York, 18: Petersburg, 25th March ; admitted hospital, Washington, 30th March : excised, 1st April; amputated in the lowest third of the forearm by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols., 7th April; discharged the service, 8th June, 1865. Contributed by the operator. See class X. A. B. c.