XXVII. 584 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 25. Triangular bayonet for United States smooth-bore flint-lock musket, model of 1822, calibre .09. 26. Triangular bayonet for United States smooth-bore percussion musket, model of 1842, calibre .69. 27. Triangular bayonet for United States smooth-bore percussion musket, model of 1842, calibre .69. 28. Triangular bayonet for French rifled musket, calibre .70. 29. Triangular bayonet for United States musket, old pattern, date and calibre not given. Contributed by U. S. Ordnance Department. 4613. Lance used in the earlier part of the war by 6th Pennsylvania Cavalry. The steel head is triangular and six inches b. 2. in length. The wooden shaft of yellow pine, ornamented at the upper extremity with a red pennon, is eight and a half feet long, and the base, tipped with brass, is loaded with lead for several inches. Contributed by Captain J. G. Benton, Ordnance Department, U. S. Army. 4612. Lance used by Col. Rankin's Michigan regiment. The steel head is ten inches in length, excluding its shaft, and b. 3. is double-edged. The wooden shaft is eight and a half feet long and ornamented at its upper extremity with a red pennon. The base, tipped with brass, is loaded with lead for several inches. Contributed by Captain J. G. Benton, Ordnance Department, U. S. Army. 4619. A Sioux war-spear, principally used upon the bodies of the wounded to discover if they are still alive. The iron b. 4. head is six inches long by two broad at the base, and is bound by iron wire to a handle of light wood four feet long. This handle is ornamented at intervals with plumage of birds, nearly all of which in this specimen is worn off. One of these spears belongs to each band and is held by the medicine-man, being inherited from father to son. It is only removed from the cloth in which it is wrapped during war-time. It is said no new ones are fabricated. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Alfred Miiller. 4618. A pike, with an iron lance head, twelve inches in length, with a hook at its base four inches long. The shaft is b. 5. oak, seven feet in length. Used by the Rebels in Fort Wagner, S. C. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. K. Neff. 4658. A Baltimore pike. The iron blade is double-edged, eleven inches long and two inches broad, and is firmly set in b. 6. an oaken handle two inches in diameter and six feet in length. The specimen i.-. one of seven thousand that were manufactured for the Baltimore rebels, with which to oppose the national troops in April, 1861, but were seized before distribution. Contributed by Brevet Major D. C. Peters, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army. 4659. A duplicate of the preceding (4658, XXVII. A. A. b. 6). b. 7. Contributed by Brevet Major D. C. Peters, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army. 4665. A bayonet, broken off three inches from the base, b. 8. Contributor and history unknown. For other illustrations, sec 1160, III. B. 15. b. 3. B. Means of Defence. 4654. An iron breastplate, eighteen inches in its extreme length and nine inches in its extreme breadth, designed to B. 1. protect the right thorax and abdomen, being a symmetrical half of a defensive cuirass. Its thickness is about one- sixteenth of an inch, and its weight is forty-five ounces. It is perforated below the centre and at its inferior border, as if by rifle balls. Taken from the body of a Rebel officer, killed at Gettysburg, 3d July, 1863.