210 IX. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION Contributed by the operator. 3629. The lowest thirds of the bones of the left forearm, the scaphoid, semilunar and parts of the cuneiform and f. 89. pisiform and first metacarpal. The radius has been perforated just above the articulation and the wrist shattered, as the history says, by the same missile. A large amount of callus lias been thrown out about the radius, but the track of the bullet is carious. The joint was completely anchylosed. Private G. D. C, "K," 140th New York,'23: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, loth; amputated at the junction of the lower thirds of the humerus, for erysipelas, by Acting Assistant Surgeon L. Frank Etton, loth September. Contributed by Surgeon Joseph Ilopkinson, U. S. Vols. See class XXIII. A. a. 1705. The carpal extremities of the right radius, ulna and metacarpal bones and the remains of the carpus. The f. 90. wrist was directly perforated by the accidental discharge of a musket upon the muzzle of which it was resting, and portions of but two bones remain in the specimen. All the articular surfaces are carious. Private A. B., "D," 66th Indiana: wounded, 1st June; admitted hospital, 1st July; amputated at the shoulder-joint by Surgeon J. G. Keenan, U. S. Vols., for gangrene of the wound, abscess of the elbow and infiltration of pus to the middle third of the arm, 2d; died, 4th July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. J. Bristol. See class V. A. B. d. 3641. The right metacarpus, the second carpal row and the pisiform and the shattered extremities of the bones of the f. 91. forearm. A conoidal ball passed directly through the wrist, producing much shattering, which resulted in great caries. Private J. M. R, "E," 12th New Jersey, 33: Cold Harbor, 4th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 23d July; amputated junction lower thirds, 24th July; died exhausted, 7th August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon M. Lampen. 2305. Four of the metacarpals and the first row of carpal bones. A conoidal ball, entering at the styloid process of the f. 92. radius, passed transversely through the wrist. Private 0. K., "E," 3d New Hampshire, 33: Petersburg, 3d September; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 12th; amputated in the middle third of forearm by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. P. Moon, 13th; died from pneumonia, 24th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon R. H. Longwill. 3673. The extremities of the bones of the right forearm and parts of the carpus and metacarpus. A bullet appears to f. 93. have passed directly through and to have destroyed the carpus; the metacarpal bones and the extremities of the radius and ulna are carious. Private D. S., "F," 71st Pennsylvania: Cold Harbor, 1st June; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 13th June, 1864; amputated at the junction of the upper thirds by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. S. Uhler. Recovered. Contributed by Surgeon Lewis Taylor, U. S. Army. 3329. The bones of the left forearm, metacarpus and first row of phalanges. The entire carpus is wanting, and all f. 94. the bones of the specimen are more or less necrosed. The outer border of the radius is partially fractured, and the ulna is necrosed nearly to the elbow. Private P. S., 16th Massachusetts, 40: Petersburg, 16th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 21st June; amputated in the lowest third of the arm by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. A. Cobb, 19th September, 1864; discharged the service, 16th March, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 352. A ligamentous preparation of the left carpus and metacarpus and lower halves of the bones of the forearm, f. 95. The carpus has been shattered by direct perforation, the scaphoid, pisiform, trapezium and trapezoid being the only bones that remain intact. None of the long bones were directly injured. Amputation was performed in the middle third. Private J. T., "C," 78th Illinois, 31: accidentally wounded by a conoidal ball from his own piece, Louisville, Ky., September; admitted hospital, New Albany, Ind., 4th October; brachial artery ligated for secondary hivmorrhage, loth; amputated for recurring hseinorrhage by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Sloan, 17th October; discharged the service, 17th November, 1862. Contributed by the operator. 49. The bones of the right hand and the lower portions of the radius and ulna. The most of the carpal bones are f. 96. fractured by the direct passage of a bullet through them. Private T. L., "D," 3d Wisconsin: Cedar Mountain, 9th August; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 12th amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon Geo. B. Mackenzie, 16th August; discharged, 14th October, 1862.