I. 12 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION Private J. McK., "H," 105th Peansylvania, 20: Petersburg, 14th June; admitted hospital and trephined, Washington, 21th; erysipelas, followed by extensive sloughing and disease of the bone, occurred 28th June; necrosed bone removed, the meninges being destroyed and the brain exposed, 3d September; wound healed and reported cured, 2d December, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 27. See classes I. A. a. b.; XXIII. A. a. e. Other Cases. For illustrations see 4473, XXVII. B. B. d, 0; 2771, XXVII. B. B. d. 188. B. fa. Primarily fatal. j b. Operated upon by the removal of fragments. Penetrating Fractures. { c. Operated upon by trephining. j d. Secondarily fatal without an operation. {e. Other cases. a. Primarily Fatal. 1164. A section of the cranium, showing a depressed fracture of the right parietal and occipital bones. The fractured a. 1. portion is ovoid, with a length of two and a half inches, a width of one and a half inches, and a depression of half an inch, involving chiefly the posterior inferior angle of the parietal. The fractured portion consists of two plates, touching at their inner edges, like the leaves of a partly opened folding door. Private G. W. S, "A," 3d Rhode Island Artillery: injured by the explosion of the magazine of the gunboat "George Washington," Coosaw River, S. C , 9th April; died, Beaufort, S. C, 12th April, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon F. L. Dibble, 0th Connecticut. 5tJ9. The vault of the cranium, showing a fracture with depression of the lower border of the left parietal bone. The a. 2. depressed portion measures two inches in diameter, and is driven inward to a depth of three-fourths of an inch in the centre. The fragments remain in situ attached by their outer edges, the line of fracture of the inner table crossing the groove for the posterior branch of the arteria meningea media. Unknown: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th; died, 19th December, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon J. C. Dorr, U. S. Vols. 2871. A cranium, extensively fractured at the intersection of the coronal and a. 3. sagittal sutures by a shell. The depressed fragments measure two and a half inches from before backward, and three and a half inches from right to left. The squamous portion of the left temporal is fissured, and all the sutures of this bone are opened. The left orbital plate and lower wing of the sphenoid are fractured, as if by contre-coup. See figure 15. Unknown (Rebel): wounded before Washington, admitted hospital and died, 17th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 9. *'ee -A-'. pI0. 15. Extensive shell fracture of cranium. A section of the cranium, penetrated at the middle of the right squamous suture by a musket ball which entered a. 4. the brain. The opening externally measures one and a half inches downward and backward, and one inch in width. A fissure, extends downward through the squamous portion of the temporal, and a second fissure, five inches long, curves forward and downward into the great wing of the sphenoid. Unknown (Rebel): wounded, admitted hospital and died, Washington, 17th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 1170. A cranium extensively fractured and fissured by a fragment of shell. There is an opening in the centre of the a. 5. frontal bone measuring three inches transversely, by three-fourths of an inch from above downward. From this one line of fracture passes backward to the centre of the coronal suture, a second to the left parietal protuberance, and a third downward to the inner angle of the right orbit, being continued by a fracture through the right superior maxilla. Other fractures traverse the frontal bone, which is divided into five large fragments. Unknown (Rebel): killed at Antietam. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols.