OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 37 B. c 3019. A cranium extensively fractured on the right side and base by falling from a railroad car in motion. The a. 5. anterior inferior angle of the right parietal and part of the squamous portion of the temporal are fractured and driven in. One line of fracture passes through the meatus auditorius to the foramen lacerum medium, and another through the body of the sphenoid. All the sutures of the right side and base of the skull are more or less opened. Unknown: dead when picked up, Baltimore, 7th July, 1865. Contributed by Brevet Major D. C. Peters, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army. b. Operated upon by the Removal of Fragments. 1457. A section of cranium fractured by a blow from the trigger of a musket at the middle of the lower border of the b. 1. left parietal and adjoining portion of the temporal bones. Fragments have been removed from a space measuring two inches backward and downward, and one and one-fourth in width. Two fragments of the outer and one of the inner table remain attached ; the latter and one of the former have their free edges depressed one-fourth of an inch. The edges of the fracture are somewhat beveled at the expense of the inner table. The fractured fragments were found in the substance of the brain at the autopsy, and there was hernia cerebri. Private M. B., 9th Massachusetts: admitted hospital, comatose, Baltimore, 5th July, 1863; died the same day. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. c. Operated upon by Trephining. 1452. A disc of bone, one inch in diameter and including the entire thickness of the cranium, removed by the trephine c. 1. from the parietal eminence. A small sharp-edged fragment of the inner table, depressed one line by the injury, is attached to the disc. Private J. R., "H," 2d Michigan, 41: received four wounds of the head from stones, 17th July; admitted hospital, and trephined by Brevet Colonel D. W. Bliss, Surgeon, U. S. Vols., Washington, 18th July; transferred to Detroit, Mich., 24th August, 1865. Contributed by the operator. See 4628, XXVI. A. 2, 87. 3453. A section of cranium trephined at the anterior inferior angle of the right parietal bone for fracture with depression c. 2. caused by a kick from a horse. One square inch of bone has been removed. Unknown, Signal Corps: injured, February, 1862; trephined, six hours afterward, by Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. Army; died, from meningitis, on the sixth day. Contributed by the operator. 2081. A disc and fragment of bone, removed by trephining from the right parietal eminence for the relief of fracture c. 3. with depression caused by a blow from an axe. The fragment includes the entire thickness of the bone, and measures one and one-fourth inches by one inch. From a Negro operated upon by Assistant Surgeon J. W. S. Gouley, U. S. Army. 2673. A section of cranium trephined for fracture with depression of the right parietal and temporal bones caused by a c. 4. blow. Fragments of bone have been removed from a space four inches in length by two in width, the edges of the opening being rounded and in process of repair. A fissure of both tables extends to the centre of the right half of the coronal suture. The inner surface of the parietal is eroded, the vitreous table presenting a worm-eaten appearance. Private C. H., " G," CIst Ohio, 37: found in the street, and admitted hospital and trephined, Alexandria, 27th September; died, 28th November, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols. d. Secondarily Fatal without an Operation. 419. A section of the skull showing fracture of the right side of the frontal bone and walls of the right orbit, with d. 1. well-marked reparative action externally. The injury was caused by a blow just over the inner angle of the right. eye, comminuting the anterior wall of the frontal sinus and completely separating the right orbital plate of the frontal from the body of the same boue. A fissure passes from just above the right external angular process of the frontal upward and inward to the median line. Other fissures traverse the orbital plate and malar process of the right superior maxilla. All these fractures are solidified by osseous deposit. A fracture of the free extremities of both nasal bones is also united with very little displacement. Internally the walls of the anterior and middle fossae of the base of the cranium on the right side are thinly crusted with a white chalky deposit, and at some points they are cribriform and carious. S. R., Negro, 35: admitted hospital, with wound over right eye, which soon healed, Washington, 30th October, 1865; died, of meningitis aud abscess of right lung, 25th February, 1866. Contributed by Dr. S. S. Bond. See 498, I. C. B. b. 17.