1(1 I. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 224. A section of the left parietal bone, showing C. 22. a fracture with depression of both tables near the tuberosity, caused by a musket ball. The external fracture is circular and one-half inch in diam- eter, a small fragment being driven in upon the diploe. The internal table is more extensively fractured, and a plate of bone three-fourths of an inch in diameter is driven inward to the depth of two lines. See figures 9 and 10. Private L. L., "F,"74th New York: Williamsburg, 5th May; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 13th; died, 23d May, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon John Neill. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 26. 3115. The vault of the cranium, fractured, with depression of one-fourth of an inch in the lower part of the right c. 23. parietal bone, by a musket ball. The opening in the outer table is three-fourths of an inch in diameter. The fragments of the inner tabic measure one by one and a half inches, and consist of two pieces touching at their inner edges. Sergeant O. B. L., "A," 22d Iowa, 25: Cedar Creek, Va., 19th October; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 27th; died from abscess of the brain, 31st October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. .546. A section of the frontal bone, with a fragment of ball embedded and projecting upon the inner surface. The C. 24. fracture with depression passes through the right frontal sinus. The external opening measures three-fourths of an inch from right to left, and one-third of an inch from above downward, with edges rounded by the commencing repair. One and a half square inches of the inner table are depressed half an inch. The fragment of ball, having passed obliquely from right to left, projects from the left edge of this fragment and has also opened the left frontal sinus. Unknown: wounded, Newbern, N. C.; died, 25th October, 1862. Contributor and further history unknown. See class XXV i I. B. B. d. Fig. 9. Depressed fracture outer table Fig. 10. Depressed fracture inner table left parietal. Spec. 224. left parietal. Spec. 224. 4255. A section of the cranium, showing a complete fissure two and a half inches in length in the left parietal, and c. 25. a depressed fracture of the frontal and parietal bones at their junction, caused by a musket ball. A portion of the temporal bone, nearly three-fourths of an inch in diameter, is depressed one line at the point of impact in front of the anterior angle of the parietal, the fissure extending from it backward and downward to the border of the temporal. The inner table is depressed and separated over a somewhat greater distance, and two slight fissures radiate from it. Private E. L. C, "I," 34th Massachusetts, 26: New Market, Va., 15th May; admitted hospital, insensible, Cumberland, Md., 18th; died, 21st May, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon J. B. Lewis, U. S. Vols. 24. A segment of the frontal bone, c. 26. contused by a musket ball between the emineuces a distance of two inches by one, with a fissure extending down- ward and outward through both tables into the right frontal sinus. The external table is very slightly depressed, and presents two small fractures. Two fragments of the inner table are driven inward to the depth of half an inch, touching each other by their inner edges, like the leaves of a folding door just ajar. A small cerebral abscess was found under the fracture. See figures 11 and 12. Private M. L. H., "E," 21st Virginia, (Rebel,) 20: Petersburg, 25th March; ad- mitted hospital, Washington, 28th March; no FIG. 12. Depressed fracture inner table tal bone with slight external injury. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. P. Arthur. bad symptoms until 1st April; died, 5th April, 1865. 2619. A segment of cranium deeply indented above and external to the right frontal eminence, the result of consoli- c. 27. dation and repair of fracture with depression of both tables. The rim of the depression is three-fourths of an