XVIII. II. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 462 3986. A wet preparation of the right and left common, external ami internal iliac arteries, eighteen weeks after ligation b. 27. of the right external iliac for traumatic aneurism. The specimen shows the ligated artery diminished to a small cord, and the corresponding internal branch much enlarged. Accompanying is a portion of the femoral artery which was ligated subsequently, but the point of ligation does not appear in the specimen. The ligatures about the lower end of the femoral and the left external iliac seem to have been placed post mortem. Private J. R. L., " F," 10th Georgia, (Rebel,) ID: ball passed through the right thigh from front to rear, half an inch below Poupart's ligament, Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital with wound closed, but with an aneurismal tumor in groin, Frederick, 27th October; external iliac ligated above the circumflex and epigastric by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army, 6th November; slight attack of hospital gangrene, 25th November, 1862; an abscess near the cicatrix discharged, 2d March ; arterial haemorrhage, seven ounces, followed a counter-incision for discharge of pus, 13th; haemorrhage, five ounces, 14th; haemorrhage, seven ounces, sac. opened, femoral necessarily cut, but without loss of blood, no vessel could be found, and death occurred from previous haemorrhage and shock of operation, 16th March, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 855. A wet preparation of a portion of the femoral artery, tied in Scarpa's triangle for secondary haemorrhage from b. 28. ulceration of the vessel in its middle third following gunshot. Private H. G., " E," 8th New York Cavalry: operation and death, Frederick, 19th November, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon H. S. Hewit, U. S. Vols. See 768, XIII. A. is. b. 27. 1140. A dry preparation of a portion of the femoral artery, ligated in Scarpa's triangle for secondary haemorrhage from b. 29. the popliteal four days after the operation and forty-three after being wounded. The specimen shows a well-formed clot in the proximal portion and a smaller one in the distal portion. Private F., Maine: posterior part of upper third of right leg wounded, Fredericksburg, 13th December, 1862; typhoid condition observed, 15th January ; secondary haemorrhage, controlled by pressure, 23d, 24th, 25th; femoral ligated by Surgeon J. A. Lidell, U S. Vols., 25th ; died, 29th January, 1863. The autopsy showed the popliteal to have ulcerated. Contributed by the operator. 2086. A wet preparation of the right femoral, ligated just above the origin of the profunda, which has been opened by b. 30. gunshot. Private G. H. M., "F," 3d Iowa, 23: canister shot entered Scarpa's triaugle, left side, traversed the perineum and escaped two inches below the right trochanter major, causing great loss of blood, lfth May; admitted hospital. Memphis, 2d June ; femoral ligated for hamiorrhage from right thigh, 3d; haemorrhage from branches of internal iliac, 8th and 9th ; died, 10th June, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. W. Nelson. 2249. A wet preparation of the left femoral artery, ligated below the origin of the profunda for the relief of a false b. 31. aneurism. Private D. R., " K," 7th Indiana, 20: bullet passed directly through the left thigh from behind, dividing both femoral artery and vein and escaping in Scarpa's space, Robinson's Creek, Va., 30th November; admitted hospital, Washington, 6th December; on examination it was found that there was free communication between the aitcry and vein in the sac, but no effusion of blood in the tissues, hence, not literally a false aneurism ; but, the artery being obliterated and the auenrismal condition increasing, an operation became necessary ; the tumor was laid open by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army, and were tied (1) the proximal end of the femoral vein near the entrauce of the saphena for profuse ha-inorrhage. (2) the femoral artery below the origin of the profunda, (3) the femoral artery two inches from the distal extremity, (4) the femoral vein near the distal extremity to control an accidental haemorrhage, 9th; death followed mortification of limb, Kith December, 1863. For a full history of this very interesting case, see MS. catalogue. Contributed by the operator. See 2250, XVIII. III. A. B. b. 1. 3960. A wet preparation of the femoral artery, ligated below the origin of the profunda t"i secondary haemorrhage aftel b. 32. amputation of the thigh for gunshot fracture of the knee. Private E. T., "G," 1st Pennsylvania Artillery, 20: admitted hospital and thigh amputated, Frederick, 5th August; secondary haemorrhage and artery ligated by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Coover, 9th ; died, 12th August, 1864. Contributed by the operator. See 3929, XIV. A. B. f. 136. 3105. A wet preparation of the femoral artery, ligated below the profunda for secondary haemorrhage following gunshot, b. 33. Private J. S., "F,"' 69th New York: admitted hospital, with severe contusion of femur from musket ball splitting upon it, Washington, 30th July; secondary haemorrhage, 4th August: artery ligated by Acting Assistant Surgeon II. M. Dean, for secondary hemorrhage, 5th; died from pyaemia, 21st August, 1864. Contributed by the operator. See 3106, XIII. A. 15. a. 2; 3118, XVIII. III. C. B. b. 1.