VII. 166 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 1553. The bones of the right elbow, as if amputated at the junction of the lower thirds of the humerus after fracture, f. 44. The olecranon and outer condyle were carried away, as if by a missile passing obliquely on the posterior surface. Contributed by Surgeon J. H. Brinton, U. S. Vols. 3370. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation at the junction of the lower thirds. The inner condyle is t 45. chipped and the articular surfaces are eroded by ulceration. Private C. H. N., "G," 21st Wisconsin, 23: Resaca, Ga., 24th May; admitted hospital, Nashville, 27th May; amputated, 3d June; died from pyaemia, 12th August, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon R. L. Stanford, U. S. Vols. 542. The lowest third of the left humerus and upper portion of the bones of the forearm, amputated after comminution £ 46. without displacement of fragments. A fissure extends on the posterior surface to near the outer condyle and the bones adjoining the joint are coated with a periosteal deposit. Contributed by Surgeon David Prince, U. S. Vols. 3567. The bones of the left elbow, after amputation at the junction of the lower thirds of the humerus. A bullet f. 47. passed directly through the joint, carrying away the radial portion of the ulna and causing an oblique partial fracture to extend two inches up the shaft. The articular surfaces generally are eroded. Sergeant J. C, "D,"6th Maine, 38: wounded, 11th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 15th; amputated, 21st June. 1864. Recovered. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 3435. The lowest third of the right humerus, struck just above the inner condyle and obliquely fractured so as to involve f. 48. the outer condyle. Private T. K., " P>," 106th New York, 34: Fisher's Hill, Va., 21st September; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 4th October; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, 5th ; died of pyaemia, 16th October, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 4127. The lowest third of the right humerus, amputated for fracture through the articulation from a piece of shell f. 49. striking just above the inner condyle. Private P. B., "D," 39th Massachusetts: amputated by Surgeon E. G. Chase, 104th New York. Contributed by the operator. 3649. The lowest third of the right humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm, after excision of the f. 50. olecranon and condyloid extremity. There was no reparative effort. Private J M., " D," 1st Maine Cavalry, 26: White's Tavern, Va., 16th August; excision performed in the field ; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 20th; amputated at the junction of the lower thirds of the humerus for secondary haemorrhage, 28th August, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon D. Kennedy. See class VII. A. a. c. 1590. The lowest third of the left humerus, the greater portion of the ulna and the lower half of the radius. The f. 51. upper half of the radius and the ulna above the base of the coronoid process have been removed by excision. Some periosteal roughness exists on the upper and posterior part of the shaft of the ulna, and the posterior part of the shaft of the humerus possesses spongy deposit. Excepting a little erosion of the outer condyle, the articular surface is not disturbed. The humerus has apparently been amputated at the junction of the lower thirds. Contributor and history unknown. See class VII. A. A. c. 132. The lowest third of the left humerus and upper halves of the bones of the forearm, probably amputated after f. 52. fracture of the elbow. A nearly longitudinal fracture has split off the lower and outer four inches of the humerus. The tip of the olecranon is fractured and the articular surfaces of the three bones are carious. A large fragment of the shaft has reunited with displacement. The specimen shows the epiphyseal lines very well. Private J. T. C, " K," 51st New York : Second Bull Run, 30th August; admitted hospital, Washington, 14th September; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon Francis Brown. Contributed by the operator. 3950. The lowest third of the left humerus, obliquely fractured in the outer condyle and inner border of the shaft. The f. 53. articular surface is carious. J. L., "K," 14th Virginia. Received from General Hospital, Frederick, Md.