OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 21 A. B. 276. A b. 58. of which is attached. The cut long and one and a fourth wide, parietal. A fissure six inches in length removed. The orbital plate of the right si the body of the bone. Private E. V., 55th Ohio: Second Bull Run, 30th August; admitted hospital and fragments removed, W September; hernia cerebri appeared, 8th; died, 25th September, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon W. Clendenin, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. 1$. d. ht supra-orbital arch, caused by a colloidal ball, a small fragment , leaving an opening into the cranium two and a half inches inner angle of the orbit to the anterior inferior angle of the right into the right parietal. Nearly all the fragments have been ctured and depressed, and a fissure one inch long extends down 2901. The vault of the cranium, fractured through the left parietal eminence by a fragment of shell, w hich caua d di ath b. 59. on the eleventh day. Fragments have been removed from a space measuring three and one-half inches downward and backward by one-half inch in width. A fissure runs from the anterior inferior angle of the left parietal Dearly to the sagittal suture, and a second fissure crosses the lambdoid suture. There is no attempt at repair. Private I. L., "I," 12th Mississippi (Rebel): wounded, 10th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 14th; died, 20th May, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon O. P. Sweet. 3859. A section of cranium, showing extensive necrosis of the right parietal b. 60. bone following fracture by musket ball. Death occurred ninety-one days after the receipt of injury. Three large necrosed fragments remain in situ but entirely separated, and two have been removed. The result- ing opening measures five inches antero-posteriorly, and four inches from above downward. See figure 21. Private C. T., "H,"63d New York, 17: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 28th; fragments of bone with some of the brain substance were removed and a hernia cerebri excised, 25th September; died from exhaustion, without further operation, 17th December, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See 3553, I. A. b. b. 10. 765. A skull fractured, as if by a musket ball, at the anterior inferior angle of the left parietal and adjoining portion of b. 61. the frontal bones. Fragments have been removed for a distance of two inches downward and backward by three. fourths of an inch in width. The left parietal is fissured through both tables from its anterior inferior to its superior posterior angle. Traces of periosteal disturbance are seen on the inner surfa necrosed. This man also endured a severe compound fracture of the tibia iir Unknown, 63d New York: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, October, 1862. Contributed b}r Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. See 767, XVI. A. B. b. 17. d the immediate borders of the fracture are sr the ankle. ible, Frederick, 22d September; died, 16th 2900. The vault of the cranium, penetrated and fractured by a musket ball at the posterior inferior portion of the riebl b. 62. parietal bone. Fragments have been removed from a space measuring three inches upward and forward and from one to one-half inch in width, at the upper extremity of which four fragments of the inner table remain attached, depressed two lines at their free edges. One fissure passes downward into the mastoid portion of tho temporal, and a second passes upward and backward to the posterior fourth of the sagittal suture. Corporal A. C, "D," 95th Pennsylvania, 24: Spottsylvauia, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 19th; died, 27th May, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon R. E. Price. 1720. A section of cranium, fractured at the right temporal fossa with comminution and depression of fragments. The b. 63. fractured surface involves the squamous portion of the temporal, frontal, parietal, and great wing of the sphenoid, measuring three and one-half inches antero-posteriorly and two inches in width. Half of the fragments have been removed ; the remainder are depressed one-fourth inch in the centre. A fissure extends through the wall of the auditory canal. There are evidences of diseased action upon the inner table. Death occurred one month after injury. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon E. Brooks, U. S Army. 236. A section of cranium, showing an extensive fracture with comminution of the frontal bone a little to the left of the b. 64. median line, caused by a fragment of shell. The fractured surface involves five square inches of bone, the fragments of one-half of which have been removed. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Webster, U. S. Army