I. CATALOGUE OF THE SUKGICAL SECTION 36 c. Secondarily Fatal without an Operation. 2230. The vault of the cranium from an epileptic subject, showing necrosis in the right frontal eminence, the evident c. 1. result of an old injury. The necrosed fragment of the size of a small bean is not detached, but the line of demarcation is well marked on both tables. Traces of osteitis, really incipient caries, are apparent for one inch around the central portion. Private W. McD., "K," 3d New Jersey, 24: admitted hospital, with epilepsy, Washington, 2d February; died, 10th April, 1864. Contributed by Medical Cadet C. M. Hunt, U. S. Army. 2492. A section of the frontal bone, showing a fracture with slight depression between the frontal eminences, and C. 2. necrosis of a plate of the internal table measuring one ami a fourth inches transversely, and three-fourths of an inch in the opposite direction, including a part ot the posterior wall of both frontal sinuses. The specimen shows but a part of the injury of the outer table. Cause unknown. Private F. B., "F," 8th Vermont, 41: admitted hospital, with the usual signs of typhoid fever, Washington, 26th May; died, 7th June, 1864. The brain was softened and pus found in the frontal sinuses. There was no disease of Peyer's glands. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. Army. 2321. A segment of the vertex of the cranium with necrosis, following fracture, of the anterior superior angle of the c. 3. right parietal bone. A necrosed fragment of the outer table measuring one-fourth by three-fourths of an inch remains in situ, the surrounding bone being cribriform and partially absorbed for a space of one inch in diameter. No fracture is apparent externally. There is stellate fracture of the inner table with extended necrosis and osteoporosis of the surrounding bone, extending to the frontal bone along the groove for the longitudinal sinus and involving nearly four square inches of surface. E. B., colored: shot in the face with a pistol ball and struck on the head with an axe; remained three weeks in jail; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th February; died, 19th February, 1866. Contributed by Dr. S. S. Bond. See 2369, I. C. B. b. 18; 2328, I. C. B. b. 19; 2319, II. A. A. b. 6, fa. Primarily fatal. C. Fractures with Depression. °P«™ted upon by the removal of fragments. r } c. Operated upon by trephining. l^d. Secondarily fatal without an operation. a. Primarily Fatal. 972. A skull fractured with depression in the right parietal bone, just external to the sagittal suture, by a cast of the a. 1. bolas, a South American weapon, consisting of a cord with a heavy ball of metal attached to each end, which is hurled. The fractured segment is an ovoid of an inch by one and a half, with a depression of one-sixteenth of an inch ; about half of the broken bone is wanting. The inner table is not splintered more than the outer one. A Pampa Indian, from the northeast region of Patagonia. Contributed by the Smithsonian Institution, through Professor S. F. Baird. 2862. The anterior half of a skull, showing a fracture of the right temporal region by a blow from a board, which a. 2. produced instant death. The line of fracture crosses the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid and continues as a fissure, bifurcating an inch from its termination, directly upward and inward nearly to the median line of the frontal bone. The right orbital plate of the frontal is traversed in its long diameter by a fissure, from the edges of which small fragments have been removed. There is no depression. Private E. C. M., "D," 28th Alabama, (Kebel): killed by a fellow-prisoner, Eock Island, 111., 14th August, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon W. Watson, U. S. Vols. 130. The upper half of the cranium, in which a fracture six and a half inches in length extends from the inferior edge a. 3. of the right parietal through the protuberance, crosses the sagittal suture at right angles, and curves forward into the left parietal bone. The anterior portion of the left parietal is slightly depressed. Unknown: violently thrown from a railroad car in motion, and died in five days. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Wm. Draine. 4351. A section of the base of the cranium fractured, with slight depression of the internal table, at the base of the a. 4. occipital, through the posterior condyloid foramen, to the mastoid process on each side. A plate of bone including both tables between the curved lines on the left side is depressed one line at the free edge. Death in this case was caused by the separation of the medulla oblongata from the pons varolii. Private J. C, " K," 2d U. S Infantry, 30: killed with an unknown weapon, at Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, 21st January, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Conner, U. S. Army.