B. 13. 35 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 1672. A section of the posterior portion of the cranium, with both parietal d. 4. bones fractured by a sabre cut, six inches in length, just in front of the lambdoidal suture. The external table is raised, forming an osseous flap. The internal table is much splintered, portions having been removed. Other portions are depressed and adherent by the deposit of new bone to the edges of the fracture. See figure. 31. Private J. T. B., "F,"7th Michigan Cavalry: captured at Gettysburg, and cut down by a rebel Lieutenant, because, wearied, he fell behind on the march, 3d July ; admitted Cavalry Corps Hospital, 4th July; died forty-two days after injury, 15th August, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon W. H. Rulison, 9th New York Cavalry. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 8. 1 0& als. Spec. 1(572 3307. The vault of the cranium, exhibiting four sabre cuts of the left, and a d. 5. depressed fracture of each parietal bone. None of the sabre cuts have directly penetrated the inner table, but it is extensively fissured and partly driven inward. The depressed fractures are directly opposite each other, as though the head had been violently compressed laterally. Traces of inflammatory action, with slight osseous exudation, appear upon the inner table. The superior portions of the parietals are discolored as if ecchymosed. See figure 32. Private R. H., "C,"7thU. S. Colored Artillery: Fort Pillow, Tenn., 12th April; died, Mound City, 111., 21st April, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon H. Wardner, U. S. Vols. FIG. 32. Four sabre cuts on the vault of the cranium and a depressed fracture of each parietal. Spec. 3307. fa. Primarily fatal. B. Contusions and Partial Fractures. \ b" Operator upon. • | c. Secondarily fatal without an operation. l^d. Sequestra removed. a. Primarily Fatal. 2970. A fragment of the frontal bone showing a tribranched fracture, caused by a fall from a horse. Externally one a. 1. line of fracture passes from the centre of the superior border of the bone downward and outward through the right frontal eminence. From the upper third of this fissure a second fissure passes nearly at right angles downward through the left frontal eminence. This last fissure involves the external table only. The inner table is fissured to correspond with the first line of fracture, and there is also a short fissure branching upward. The inner table opposite each frontal eminence is reticulated, and in the centre of the perforated plate of the left side there is a small nodule of bone as large as a grain of wheat. Sergeant A. N., "B," 13th New York Cavalry: injured in Washington, 10th August; treated in the regimental hospital; died, 14th August, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon J. M. Homminston, 3d New York Provisional Cavalry. b. Operated Upon. 2210. Four fragments of bone, removed by operation from the right side of the frontal bone fractured by a blow b. 1. from a bottle. The fragments comprise about one-half square inch of the inner table. Private , 149th New York: injured, Stevenson, Ala., 24th January, 1864 ; operated upon by Surgeon G. A. Kimball, 149th New York. Contributed by the operator. 2876. The vertex of the cranium fractured in the left parietal region; probably the result of a blow from some blunt b. 2. weapon. There is a semi-circular fissure of the external table just in front of the protuberance, and stellate Assuring with slight depression of the inner table, including a surface one inch in diameter. From this point a fissure involving both tables extends to the centre of the left branch of the lambdoidal suture. There are no traces of attempt at repair. The result of the so-called Pacchionian bodies in producing absorption of bone, with elevation of the outer table, is well marked in this specimen. Private D. H., U. S. Marine Corps: admitted hospital, with frostbite of feet, Vicksburg, Miss., 24th February: the injury of the head was not diagnosed; died, 1st March, 1866. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. F. Rockwell. See class XXIII. B. D.