A. B. 375 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 3355. The upper half of the left tibia, with several sharply defined and curiously arranged fissures extending through a. 10. the compact portion. The parts adjacent to the fissures are dead, but below these borders slight periosteal deposit has occurred. Contributor and history unknown. 1916. The bones of the left leg, five months after injury. The tibia appears originally to have been contused by a a. 11. musket ball. Erysipelas first and gangrene afterward reduced the subject exceedingly. A considerable portion of the tibia is necrosed. The diseased portion is encircled with a fringe of callus. Corporal T. C, "H," 21st Michigan, 155: Stone River, 1st January; died, in Nashville, 1st June, 18(53. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Gray, U. S. Army. 2022. The two lower thirds of the bones of the left leg. The tibia has been partially fractured in the lowest third. An a. 12. abundant involucrum has been formed to nearly the point of section, exhibiting through the cloacae a large sequestrum detached but imprisoned. A few points of osseous deposit are seen on the fibula, which is uninjured. Contributed by Surgeon J. A. Lidell, U. S. Vols. 3003. The right fibula, two and a half months after injury. The bone was partially fractured on the posterior surface, a. 13. A fair amount of callus had been effused, but much of it has evidently been destroyed by suppuration following gangrene. Private W. S., "B," 4th South Carolina Cavalry, (Rebel,) 37: Hawe's Shop, Va., 28th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 6th June; died, 11th August, 18(54. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean See class XXIII. A. B. 103. The shaft of the left tibia, fissured longitudinally by a musket ball striking the middle third. Necrosis has followed a. 14. the iuduced periostitis. Contributor and history unknown. 783. The lower halves of the bones of the right leg. The tibia has been struck by a bullet at the junction of the a. 15. lover thirds and a longitudinal section is split loose. The specimen beautifully shows how a chain-work of callus has woven the fragment again to the shaft in its lower p. rtion. Reparative action in the upper part is less in degree. Contributed, without history, by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. 3588. The left tibia, two and a third months after injury. An iron ball (case?) fractured longitudinally the anterior a. 16. border of the tibia for three inches. Necrosis has destroyed the greater portion of the shaft. Corporal P. D., " K," 164th New York, 48: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th June; died, exhausted, 14th August, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 799. The upper thirds of the left tibia, exhibiting a longitudinal fracture, with loss of substance of the inner and a. 17. posterior portion of the shaft, which did not pass entirely through the bone. There is a feeble periosteal deposit adjoining the bony edges. The broken portion has not been preserved. Private L. S. G., "K," 145th Pennsylvania, 22: Gettysburg, 2d July; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 13th July, died from exhaustion after haemorrhage from the popliteal artery, 14th August, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Win, V. Keating. 1468. The upper portions of the bones of the left leg. The tibia exhibits an oblique partial fracture in the upper third a. 18. with longitudinal splintering. The ball struck from above and behind, and the specimen well illustrates the tendency of the fracture to be propagated in the direction of the force. The borders of the fracture are necrosed. Contributed by Surgeon J. H. Brinton, U. S. Vols. 3609. The left tibia, four months after injury. The periosteum was injured by a bullet, and, after two weeks, gangrene a. 19. supervened denuding the bone. The specimen shows one longitudinal half of the bone necrosed and nearly separated, with the other portion sheathed with callus. Private J. B., "A," 16th Michigan, 26: Petersburg, 30th September; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th October, 1864; died, exhausted, 26th January, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon R. B Bontecou, U. S. Vols. 341. The lower portion of the left tibia, indented, without comminution, on the anterior surface, by a pistol ball which a. 20. lodged just above the ankle joint. The missile was firmly embedded and was extracted with difficulty five days after the injury. The anterior tibial nerve was compressed but not lacerated, and the subject died thirty-six hours after the removal of the buliet. Private J. B. S., "F," 2d New York: accidentally shot; died of tetanus, 20th July, 1861. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. W. S. Gouley.