OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 59 A. B. Corporal L. P., 14th New Jersey, 26: Monocacy, 9th July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 10th; died, 12th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. C. Shinier. See classes XI. A. A. b; XXVII. B. B. d. 3748. The last four lumbar vertebra. The bodies of the third and fourth are fractured at their left posterior junction, b. 12. The left transverse processes and the spinous process of the fourth vertebrae are shattered by a couoidal ball which perforated the abdomen. Private J. B., "I," 9th Minnesota, 28: Nashville, 16th December, 1864 ; admitted hospital the same day, and died the next. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. C. May. See 3749, XX. A. A. a. 5. 3739. The first, second, third, and a section of the fourth lumbar vertebrae. An iron grapeshot, about one inch in b. 13. diameter, is lodged in the canal near the junction of the second and third. The spinous process of the first is destroyed and the lamina; vertically fractured at their junction. The spinous process and entire arch of the second are destroyed, except the left inferior articular process, which remains in position. This vertebra has a vertical fracture directly through its body, and the left pedicle and subjacent portion of {he bi)dy have been broken off. The missile has entered by pressing open the fractured bones, which afterward enclosed it by their elasticity. Sergeant W. L., "G," 18th New York Cavalry, 25: Pleasant Hill, La., 8th April; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 10th; died, 12th April, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon Samuel Kneeland, U S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. a. c. 4557. The last three cervical and part of the first dorsal vertebrae. A conoidal ball passed obliquely backward fron. b. 14. the right front through the body of the sixth cervical, lacerating the cord and shattering the left lamina. A perpen- dicular fracture runs through the body of the seventh, and another through the left lamina of the sixth vertebra near the arch. Unknown woman (colored): accidentally shot, Washington, 12th October, 1865; died in fifteen minutes. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. Glennan, U S. Vols. 4064. The second lumbar vertebra with a section of the right anterior side of the body split off and the adjacent b. 15. superior articular process fractured. The mode of preparation causes this specimen to present the appearance of the secondary stage. Contributor and history unknown. See 4065, XVIII. II. A. a. a. 1, from the same case. ( a. Involving the bones only. B. Secondary Conditions. I b; g^Eo* L d. Dislocations. a. Involving the Bones Only. 1867. The last four cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. A severe contusion, encircled by a line of demarcation, occupies a. 1. the anterior face of the sixth and seventh cervical, in both of which the caries extends to the canal. The missile was a bullet that fractured the right side of the lower jaw, and which the subject declared he had spit out. There were no indications of spinal injury during life. Private G. A. A., "C," 20th New York, 35: probably Gettysburg, 3d July; died of pyaemia, Philadelphia, 21st July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Joseph Leidy. See 1881, II. A. B. b. 4. 1710. The first four cervical vertebrae thirty-six days after partial fracture of the left posterior arch of the atlas by a a. 2. conoidal ball, which also fissured the occipitial bone, against which it lodged. The missile, which caused constant suppuration and could not be extracted during life, is attached to the specimen. It entered one inch below and behind the left mastoid process and passed upward. Private W. P., jr., "F," 114th Pennsylvania: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Annapolis, 17th May; died, 8th June, 1863 Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 2737. The last four dorsal vertebrae, with the spinous process of the eleventh carried away and the right transverse a. 3. process partially fractured. Received, without history, from Annapolis.