OF TUB UNITKD STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM A. B. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. 3874. The shaft of the left femur, fractured at the junction of the lower thirds by a conoidal b. 86. ball which " entered about three inches below and to the outer side of the patella, emerged about one inch below the popliteal space, then [entered] in about two inches above the joint posteriorly, fracturing the thigh, and emerged at the inner side of the thigh about four inches below Poupart's ligament," subject being on his knees at the time. Firm union, by a columnar net-work of callus, has occurred, with two inches shortening. A little below the trochanter is an irregular spur of callus, as if the periosteum had been torn in the upward passage of the ball. See figure 91. Private D. K., " B," 3d North Carolina, (Rebel,) 34: Antietam, 17th September; erysipelas occurred, 20th December, 1862; portion of ball extracted, 14th February; continued to do well, walking with crutches, until erysipelas recurred, 15th May ; died, 6th June, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. M, Paullin. See class XXIII. A. A. 370. A portion of the shaft of the right femur, fractured, with comminution, by grape, in the b. 87. middle third. The specimen is a remarkable instance of reparative effort. The Fragments are thoroughly involved with callus, and a large sequestrum is nearly detached. There is an accidental post mortem fracture of the specimen one inch below its superior border. A moderate degree of union had occurred before death. Sergeant T. B., 93d Pennsylania, 36: Fair Oaks, 31st May ; reached bis home, Lebanon, Penna., by way of Fort Monroe and Philadelphia Hospitals, 26th July; died from pysemia, 24th September, 1862. Contributed by Dr. B. F. Schenck, of Lebanon, Penna. 305. The upper third of the right femur, transversely fractured, without comminution, belo b. 88. the trochanters. A fissure of two and a half inches extends down the outer aspect of , the shaft The penis and scrotum 'were also wounded. See figure 92. Private C. G., " I," 3d Delaware, 21 : Petersburg, 1st April; admitted hospital, Washington, 6th; died from exhaustion, 19th April., 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. F. Norris, U. S. Army. See class XX. A. B. b. 3013. The left femur, three weeks after injury. An exceedingly oblique fracture, with a b. 89. longitudinal fissure, occupies the upper half. There is no comminution. The perios- teum was stripped, as if by burrowing pus, from the greater portion of the bone. Corporal M. M., "I," 8th New York Heavy Artillery. 31: South Side R. R., Va., 31st March; admitted hospital, Washington, 6th April; died from exhaustion, 23d April, 1865. Contributed by Brevet Captain W. F. Norris, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army. 1811. The upper half of the left femur, fractured transversely, with oblique comminutiou b. 90. into somewhat large fragments, in the upper third, by a conoidal ball which is attached, split and battered. Private G. S. P., "H," 18th Massachusetts: Rappahannock Station, Va , 7th November; admitted hospital, Washington, 9th; died, 15th November, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. Edelin. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3261. The upper third of the right femur. A conoidal ball has peiforated the shaft on its b. 91. anterior surface, Assuring the bone longitudinally, with some comminution and loss of substance at the point of exit. Private M. D., "H," 14th New York Heavy Artillery: Petersburg, 26th June; admitted hos- pital, Washington, 1st July; died, 4th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Richard Westerling. Fig. 92. Tn 3439. The upper half of the right femur. There is a moderately oblique fracture of the middle third c< b. 92. fissures from above. The injury appears to be the result of the impact of a ball on the inner and the shaft, near the trochanter minor, where the laminated structure is forced inward without compl from which a deep fissure extends down to the seat of the principal mischief. The posterior aspect of the is transversely fissured, without direct communication with the original injury It is possible the b simultaneously by two balls moving with different velocities, but the specimen appears to illustrate the tran to a point apart from that of the original impingement. Private N. S., "K," 10th New Jersey, 29: Cedar Creek, 19th October; admitted hospital, Baltimore, sphacelus of thigh, 26th October, 1864.