OP THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. B. C 189 See 1827, VI. A. R. f. 28; 4339, XVIII. II. A. n. b. 8. 2993. A part of the left humerus, transversely fractured at the junction of the lower thirds. There is no trace of any b. 4. reparative process, and it is probable the specimen is from some case that was primarily fatal by additional and independent injury. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Conner, U. S. Army. For other illustrations, see 2977, XI. B. A b. 1; 2991, XIII. B. A. c. 2. J3. Secondary conditions. a. Contusions and partial fractures. b. Complete fractures. c. Excisions. { d. Amputated fractures. I e. Other operations. | f. Stumps. l,g. Sequestra. b. Complete Fractures. 1849. A portion of the shaft of the right humerus, transversely fractured by a fall of one hundred and ten feet from a b. 1. bridge, three days after injury. The specimen shows a thin periosteal coating. A compound fracture of the radius and ulna occurred at the same time. The fall was somewhat broken by striking timbers in the descent. J. N., civilian: admitted hospital, Washington, 23d July; amputated at the surgical neck for sphacelus by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army, 26th July; arm nearly healed at the end of four weeks; retained in hospital for contusion of hip until discharged, perfectly well, 13th November, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 530. The right humerus, exhibiting a consolidated fracture in the lowest fourth of the shaft. Very firm union, with b. 2. displacement inward of one and a half inches, has occurred. The specimen, which appears to have been from a female, was picked up on an ancient battle-field on Oahu, Sandwich Islands, known by tradition to be at least two hundred years old. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon William R. De Witt, jr., U. S. Vols. 0 • Diseases. 4338. The upper portion of the left humerus, after death from secondary hajmorrhage following a wound of the axillary C. 1. artery. The point of interest is the condition of the head, which was thus described at the autopsy : "No pus « as found in the shoulder joint. The head of the humerus was very soft, and on cutting through the softened articular cartilage a pasty substance was found beneath it taking the place of much of the spongy extremity of the bone. This pasty substance was the broken-down spongy substance Other organs normal. In the specimen it will be seen that about one-third of the border of the cartilage of incrustation is detached from the bone: this is due to manipulation and maceration." The shaft is irregular and superficially necrosed. A section appears to have been made about the original point of amputation. Private G. R. P., 3d Maine, 21: shoulder penetrated by buckshot and humerus fractured by a round ball, Virginia, May; arm primarily amputated in the middle third; ligated for secondary haemorrhage, New York Harbor, 2tith July; died after secondary haemorrhage, 5th August, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon S. Teats.