CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 146 VII. e. Amputations in the Humerus. 3008. The bones of the left elbow, showing the coronoid process and adjoining- portion of the shaft of the ulna shattered e. 1. and the olecranon broken off without injury to either of the other bones. Primary amputation was probably performed. Received from the Army of the Potomac. 2863. The lowest fourth of the right humerus, apparently amputated. The inner condyle has been shattered and is e. 2. missing, and an oblique fracture extends up the shaft to the point of section. Received from the Army of the Potomac. 2727. The bones of the left elbow, with the upper third of the ulna completely comminuted. The specimen appears to e. 3. have been a primary amputation in the lowest third of the humerus. Received after the Wilderness. 3122. The bones of the left elbow, apparently after primary amputation in the lowest third. The outer condyle and e. 4. adjoining articular surface are carried away and the head and neck of the radius shattered. Contributor and history unknown. 3088. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation. A ball appears to have passed obliquely from rear to front, e. 5. breaking the posterior surface of the olecranon and chipping the outer condyle. A partial fracture extends above the articulation in the humerus, and for the length of the specimen in the ulna. Private S. W. W., "F," 2d U. S. Sharpshooters, (Volunteers,) 35: Petersburg, 16th June; amputated in the field by Dr. A. Garcelon; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th June; died, 4th August, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 497. The bones of the left forearm and a portion of the humerus, probably after primary amputation in the lowest e. 6. third. The radius is comminuted in its upper half, excepting the head, and the ulna in the upper third, the fracture extending into the joint. An oblique fracture of the humerus extends into the joint. Contributed by Surgeon De Benneville, 11th Pennsylvania Reserves. 1578. The bones of the left elbow, apparently after primary amputation in the lowest third of the humerus. The e. 7. olecranon and upper part of the shaft are split off through the coronoid process by a conoidal ball which fractured the inner border of the ulna while flexed, and which shattered the inner condyle where it lodged and is preserved in the specimen. Contributor and history unknown. Sec class XXVII. B. B. d. 3219. The bones of the right elbow, amputated in the lowest third after fracture of the joint. A conoidal ball at fifty e. 8. yards struck the outer condyle and passed transversely inward and downward, grazing the head of the radius and shattering the upper two and a half inches of the ulna. Captain B. B. B., "I," 1st New Jersey: Spottsylvania, 12th May, 1864; amputated in the field by Surgeon L. W. Oakley, 2d New Jersey, the same day. Recovered and served in the Veteran Reserve Corps. Contributed by the operator. 2242. The bones of the left elbow, after amputation in the lowest third of the humerus for fracture by a conoidal bullet e. 9. which lodged against the sigmoid notch. The upper fourth of the ulna and the inner condyle are shattered, and a fissure extends the length of the specimen on the posterior surface of the humerus. Private C. W., " K," 5th New Jersey: McLean's Ford, Va., 15th October, 1863. Amputated in the field by Surgeon H. F. Van Derveer, 5th New Jersey, the same day. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. 2037. The bones of the right elbow, amputated in the lowest third of the humerus. A conoidal ball passing laterally e. 10. shattered the radius just below its head through which a transverse fracture passed, and, impinging against the ulna, caused a nearly transverse fracture. The case appears to be one in which an excision of the extremity of the radius would have been advisable. Corporal T. L., "H," 126th New York: Morton's Ford, Va., 6th February; amputated, 8th February; transferred to Veteran Reserve Corps, 31st August, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon W. W. Potter.