I. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 26 3117. A segment of cranium fractured at the middle of tbe upper border of the left parietal bone, apparently by a musket d. 2. ball. A fragment of the outer table, measuring one-half by one inch, is depressed and in situ. A portion of the inner table, three-fourths of an inch iu diameter, is wanting. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. Allen, U. S. Army. 19©4. A segment of the posterior portion of the cranium, showing a nearly circular fracture of both tables just above d. 3. and to the left of the occipital protuberance, caused by a glancing musket shot. The broken bone is detached and lies in the wound. The internal surface of the opening, which measures one inch in diameter, is slightly the larger. Private J. F. W., "H," 3d Maine: near the Eapidan, Va., 27th November; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 4th December; died from meningitis, 6th December, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Cass. 1293. A section of the frontal bone penetrated at its left eminence by a d. 4. round ball, which is impacted, nearly severed into two equal parts as if by the edge of the fractured bone, causing a fracture of three-fourths by one inch of the inner table with a depression of half an inch of the Iree edge. The external fracture is three-fourths of an inch in diameter. The ball was removed on the field. The contributor remarks of the ball, that it was "probably cut before being fired, as it is reported that such balls are used by the enemy." See figure 22. Corporal J. N., " H," 159th New York, 18: Irish Bend, La., 14th April; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 17th; died, with a large abscess of the brain, 2d May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Connor, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. 1$. d. 161. A segment of cranium fractured nt the mastoid portion of the left d. 5. temporal, probably by a musket ball. Death occurred on the nine- teenth day from erysipelas. The injury of the outer table involves a litile over one square inch of surface. Two fragments are attached. The injured surface of the inner table includes the groove for the lateral sinus, and measures one by one and one-fourth inches. The free edge of one fragment is depressed two lines ; one small fragment is wanting, the others are in silu. There is necrosis of the fractured surfaces. See figure 23. Private T. M.: wounded, 16th September; died, 4th October, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A. A. 1 (if left 3747. A section of frontal bone, perforated and fractured by a musket ball just below the left parietal eminence, d. 6. The opening measures one-half inch in each direction, with two radiating fissures, each thiee-fourths of an inch long, passing downward and outward and upward and outward. A small semi-lunar fragment is in situ. Nearly two square inches of the inner table are wanting, including the posterior wall of the left parietal sinus. Private E. G., 18th Indiana Battery, 25: accidentally wounded and admitted hospital, Nashville, 7th January; died, 14th January, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Byrne, U. S. Army. 1137. Five fragments of the right parietal bone with a round bullet, as if from spherical case. The largest d. 7. fragment of bone measures one-half inch in diameter, and is itself made up of seven smaller fragments. The bony fragments were removed at the autopsy. The ball was found embedded in the brain. Sergeant C. B. H., "D," 127th Pennsylvania, 22: Second Fredericksburg, 1st May; admitted hospital, Washington, 6th; died, 11th May, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon John A. Lidell, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. A. c. 1734. The vault of the cranium, with three fragments of inner table from the frontal bone, which is fractured by d. 8. a musket ball just in front of the junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures. The fractured and depressed portion measures three-fourths by one inch. A fissure one inch in length runs downward iu the centre of the frontal bone. The fragments removed consist entirely of diploe and inner table, and were found driven into tbe gubstance of the brain. The fragments of the outer table remain in situ.