XXV. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 5G4 266. A east of the right foot, after amputation of the first three toes, with the heads of the corresponding metatarsal b. 237. bones, by an oblique incision. The flap taken from the sole has united firmly. The foot is swollen in the metatarsus and somewhat everted, as though indifferent for locomotion. Private J. W. Q., "I," 27th Pennsylvania: amputated, for fracture by a city passenger car, by Acting Assistant Surgeon C. B. King, Philadelphia, 15th October, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 1593. A cast of the right foot, from which the great toe lias been amputated at the first phalanx and the others at the b. 238. metatarsal articulation. The stumps are well rounded and the cicatrices appear firm, but the foot is pally and swollen, as if by erysipelas. The history speaks of only the loss of the last two toes. Private W. S., "C,"2d New York Cavalry, 19: Alexandria, La., 6th May; fourth and fifth toes amputated, 8th July; admitted hospital, Albany, 13th December, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. H. Armsby, U. S. Vols. 4700. A plaster cast of the stump of the left leg, twenty-six months after amputation at the junction of the lower thirds. b. 239. Private C. F. B., " F," 1st Connecticut Cavalry : Petersburg, 20th June ; amputated by Surgeon A. P. Sheldon, U. S. Vols., Washington, 3d July, 1864; gangrene followed and several sequestra came away ; furnished an artificial limb, April, 1865; healed, July, 1865; cast taken at the Army Medical Museum, by Hospital Steward E. F. Schafhilt, U. S. Army, 24th September, 1866, when the limb had become so atrophied as to necessitate his procuring a new leg. Contributed by the operator. See 2765, XVI. A. B. f. 23. c. Illustrating Plastic Operations. 349. A cast of the head and face, deformed as a result of gunshot wound of the chin and centre of the lower jaw five c. 1. months previously. The lower lip is cleft in the centre aud drawn downward and backward by a stellate cicatrix ■which occupies the place of the chin and of the anterior half of the body of the lower jaw on each side, including the symphysis. The angles of the mouth are drawn downward aud inward, making the shape of the oral aperture triangular. The anterior surface of the neck, the cicatrized portion of the chin aud the mouth are nearly on the same plane. A duplicate of this specimen in wax, without a number, is mounted by the side of it. Private J. S., " B," 1st New York Mounted Rifles, 29 : Iudiantown, N. C, 12th July ; cast taken just previous to a plastic operation, New York, 25th December, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. W. S. Gouley, U. S. Army. See 560, XXV. A. B. c. 2. See class II. A. B. c. 560. A cast of the lower part of the face, showing the result of a plastic operation performed eight months previously c. 2. for the relief of the deformity shown in the preceding specimen, 349. The cicatricial tissue has been removed and the lower lip brought back to its normal position. The scar of the incisions made for this purpose forms a Y inverted. The prominence of the chin is not restored, but there is no depression aud it curves forward from the plane of the anterior surface of the neck. Private J. S., " B," 1st New York Mounted Rifles, 29: Iudiantown, N. C, 12th July; operated upon, New York, 26th December, 1863. Cast taken and discharged the service, 1st September, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. W. S. Gouley, U. S. Army. See 349, XXV. A. B. c. 1. See class II. A. B. c. 265. A cast of the face, deformed by cicatrices at the right side of the mouth, resulting from wound by a fragment of c. 3. shell. The right half of the under lip is drawn in beneath and behind the upper, being adherent to the body of the inferior maxilla. The upper lip is shortened by a band of cicatricial tissue which occupies the vermilion border and arches down across the right angle of the mouth, from which point it sends branches downward and outward, one of the latter extending nearly to the right angle of the lower jaw. The mouth could neither be freely opened nor entirely closed aud there was constant escape of saliva. The cast represents the condition just before a plastic operation for its relief by Dr. Gurdon Buck. Private E. H., " C," 6th Vermont, 22 : Winchester, 19th September, 1864. Cast taken in New York, 28th February, 1865. Contributed by Dr. Gurdon Buck. See 485, XXV. A. B. c. 4; 4004, XXV. A. B. c. 5 ; 4005, XXV. A. B. c. 6. 485. A cast of the face, showing the result of a plastic operation for the relief of the deformity shown in specimen 265, c. 4. XXV. A. b. c. 3, two months after operation. The right hall'of the lower fop and the symmetry of the mouth are in a great measure restored. The new portion of the lower lip has been obtained by sliding from the right cheek, the red border having been made from the mucous membrane of the mouth. The greater part of the cicatricial tissue has been