569 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. mation occurred. The operations occurred ten days apart. The specimens were composed of fibrous and osseous tissue in about equal proportions and weighed, respectively, 28:5 and 257 grains. They were rather more than two inches broad and one inch wide The operator was Dr. Stedman, of Bostou. Contributed by Prof. J. B. L. Jackson. See class XIV. C. 4252. A cast of the head, showing deformity resulting from loss of the right superior maxillary, the right ala of the nose A. 2. and a part of the cheek and upper lip, resulting from gangrene probably caused by excessive and improper use of mercury. The margin of the opening consists, below, of the border of the lower lip, which is drawn upward and to the right, its extremity being adherent to the right malar bone; from this point to a point half an inch below the inner canthus of the right eye it is formed by the cicatrized margin of the cheek, and internally by the ridge and left ala of the nose and the left half of the upper lip. The right eye is destroyed and sunken, and the cartilaginous portions of the septum nasi is wanting. The palate bones and velum palati remain in situ. The right nasal fossa is freely opened and the lower turbinate bones are exposed. This deformity was subsequently remedied by a plastic operation. See specimens 4253, 4254, following. The necrosed superior maxilla is shown in specimen 557, II. C. a. 2. Private C. B., "B," " Purnell Legion," Maryland Volunteers, 20: admitted hospital, convalescing from typhoid fever, Frederick, 3d August; discharged the service, 23d December, 1862. Cast taken in Frederick, 26th March, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See 557, II. C. A. 2; 4253, XXV. C. a. 3; 4254, XXV. C. A. 4. See class XXV. C. B. 4253. A plaster cast of the lower part of the face, showing the result of a plastic operation performed four weeks A. 3. previously for the closure of the mouth and partial relief of the deformity shown in the preceding specimen (4252, XXV. C. a. 2). The outer fourth of the lower lip has been turned upon itself, forming apart of the upper lip, and the tissue of the right cheek has been glided forward to replace it. The cicatrix of an incision is shown extending from the right corner of the mouth nearly to the angle of the lower jaw. The right corner of the mouth is pouting and forms a semi- circle rather than an angle. This cast shows the condition of the man, 23d April, 1863. Private C. B., "B," "Purnell Legion," Maryland Volunteers, 20: admitted hospital, convalescing from typhoid fever, Frederick, 3d August, 1862. Operation by Dr Gurdon Buck. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See 557, II. C. A. 2 ; 4252, XXV. C. A. 2; 4254, XXV. C. a. 4. 4254. A cast showing the final result of plastic operations for the relief of the deformity shown in the two preceding A. 4. specimens (4252, 4253). The opening in the cheek and the right ala of the nose has been filled by a flap from the forehead. There is a notch in the border of the upper lip, and the right half of the lower lip is still somewhat pouting, the angle of the mouth not being sharply defined. The new part of the nose is slightly hypertrophied and flattened. All the incisions have cicatrized, and in their contraction have drawn the lower part of the face a little to the right. This cast was taken in June, 1864, seven months after the last and thirteen months after the first operation. This man was heard of as in good health. April, 1867. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See 557, II. C. A. 2; 4252, XXV. C. a. 2; 4253, XXV. C. A. 3. 484. A plaster cast of an enormous enlargement of the prepuce and scrotum by elephantiasis. A. 5. I. N., (colored,) 25: born in Georgia ; tumor of eight years' growth ; weight seventy pounds ; circumference five feet; successfully removed, at Colored Hospital, New York, by J. S. Thebaud, M. D. Obtained by order of the Surgeon General. To be written out after pamphlet. B. Without Operation. 2157. A plaster cast of the anterior portion of the neck, deformed by enlargement of the thyroid gland. Both lobes of B. 1. the gland are hypertrophied, the right more than the left, and the tumor thus formed measures six inches from right to left, three inches from above downward, and is one and a half inches in depth at tho most prominent point. The surface is smooth and regular. Private J. M., "A," 36th Michigan, 41 : admitted hospital, with gunshot wound of right wrist, Baltimore, 15th May, 1864. When admitted the tumor had been noticed a little more than a month. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. See class XXIV. C. B. a. 2526. A cast of the lower two-thirds of the. left thigli and upper two-thirds of the leg, exhibiting very extensive varicose B. 2. veins, especially of the patellar plexus, arising without assignable cause one year before the preparation of the cast. Private W. H. A., "C," 4th Delaware : cast taken while awaiting discharge, Philadelphia, 3d May, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeons Charles Carter and W. W. Keen, jr. See class XVIII. III. C. B. b. 72