598 XXVII. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 4568. Two buckshot in throe fragments, each flattens d. 8. survived twelve days. One shot entered the externa plate of the frontal bone and lodged in the anterior it was surrounded by a small abscess. A second shot entered external ear and the outer canthus, denuded the zygoma of a backward, penetrated the squamous portion of the temporal be lobes and lodged in the posterior superior portion of the poste substance was disorganized to the depth of half an inch alo: entered the left antrum and was not removed. See figure 158, Private B. G. S., "F," 9th Kentucky Cavalry: wounded, Contributed by Surgeon A. M. Wilder, U. S. Vols. See class I. C. R. b. See B'. 1, from wounds of the brain which were I angle of the left eye, perforated the orbital inferior portion of the anterior lobe, where over the left zygoma, halfway between the jortion of periosteum, glanced upward and ne, passed through the middle and posterior rior lobe of the left hemisphere. The brain lg the course of the wound A third shot FIG. 158. Flattened buckshot which penetrated the cranium. cpec. 4068. ith July; died of meningitis, '24th July, 1863. 3099. A small pistol ball, slightly indented at the base, which entered behind the surgical neck of the right humerus d. 9. while the arm was raised, passed through the axillary space, entered the cavity of the chest between the fifth and sixth ribs, fractured the fifth rib and divided the fifth costal artery, passed through the middle and lower bbes of the right lung, wounded the inferior vena cava, perforated the centre of the diaphragm and lodged under the skin at the lower border of the left tenth rib near its junction with the ninth in front. The orifice was blackened with powder. There were two other bullet wounds and one contusion. C. J. (colored): killed, Rolla, Mo., 29th October, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon H. Culbertson, U. S. Vols. See B'. 4531. A small conoidal ball, as if from a pistol or carbine, obliquely flattened on one side of the body. Entered d. 10. anteriorly near the middle of the leg. Removed posteriorly, four inches lower down. Private W. C, "M," 8th New York Cavalry: Beverly Ford, Va., 9th June; extracted, Philadelphia, June, 1863; discharged, 21st January, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Charles Carter. 4297. A much-flattened and battered fragment of a carbine ball, which entered the right scapula from behind, perforated d. 11. the lung and was extracted from under the integument near the middle third of the clavicle. From a soldier of the 4th New York Cavalry, near Mount Jackson, Va., 13th June, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon Samuel Brillantowski, 41st New York. 3140. A longitudinal half of a conoidal carbine ball, which entered the glutsei and fractured the left femur at the d. 12. trochanter major, and was extracted nine and a half months afterward from beneath the vastus externus about six inches below the trochanter. The missile is covered with shallow, close-set, parallel, longitudinal grooves. Sergeant L. P. W., "B," 22d Virginia (Rebel): Falling Waters, Md., 14th July ; admitted hospital, Frederick, 16th July, 1863; missile extracted by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. S. Adams, 23d March; escaped, well, 1st May, 1864. Contributed by the operator. See class XIII. A. li. b. See B'. 1085. A round ball of small calibre, from the lung. It is slightly roughened at one point, probably from contact with d. 13. a rib. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon C. W. Horner. 4294. A spherical ball, slightly notched at one portion by fracture of the middle third of the right humerus, d. 14. Private D. E., "E," 3d Vermont: Second Fredericksburg, 2d May; removed by Surgeon O. A. Judson, I'. S. Vols., Washington, 13th May, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 2981. A round ball, extracted from the condyle of the femur by the use of the screw, the mark of which instrument is d. 15. plainly recognizable. It is very slightly roughened. Contributed by Surgeon J. H. Brinton, U. S. Vols. 4433. A round ball, very moderately contused, extracted from the front of the tibia, d. 16. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Peabody. 2726. A spherical ball, with a concave impression over a small segment caused by contact with the shaft of a large bone, d. 17. The history illustrates the importance of removing foreign bodies whenever practicable. Private J. C, "I," 1st Ohio Artillery, '29: anterior middle of the lowest third of the right thigh, Second Bull Run, 29th August; symptoms of pyaemia occurred, and ball extracted from against the femur, beneath the semi-membranosus, at the junction of the lower thirds, Washington, 29th November, 1862. Recovered rapidly. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Samuel T. Brown.