OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 147 A. A. Received from the Army of the Potomac. 4024. The lowest third of the right humerus, which appears to have been amputated after fracture of the joint. A e. 11. bullet striking the coronoid depression perforated the bone, splitting off the inner condyle, fracturing the ulnar portion of the trochlea, shattering the extremity of the shaft and finally producing a nearly transverse fracture midway between the articulation and the line of section. Received from Ninth Corps Hospital. 4109. The lowest third of the right humerus, amputated for fracture of the joint. A bullet has perforated the bone e. 12. from the front just above the condyles, producing two complete fractures downward through the trochlea, besides several in other directions, and much loss of substance from the posterior part of the bone. Private J. W. McL., 3d Maine Light Artillery, 23: amputated by Surgeon J. S. Jamison, 86th New York, 12th September, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 2847. The lower portion of the left humerus. A double oblique fracture has occurred just above the condyles, and the e. 13. inner articular surface has been earned away by a conoidal ball. Private W. A., "B," 148th Pennsylvania: Cold Harbor, 3d June, 1864; amputated on the field by Surgeon D. E. Kelsey. Contributed by the operator. 4025. The bones of the right elbow, with the head of the radius and lowest third of the shaft of the humerus, shattered, e. 14. A complete fracture extends through the trochlea, but the condyles are not directly injured. The wound appears to have been received when the arm was completely flexed. Contributor and history unknown. 2248. The lowest third of the right humerus and the two upper thirds of the bones of the forearm. When the limb e. 15. was in a flexed position a bullet appears to have struck the ulna on the anterior surface near the junction of the upper thirds, and then to have passed obliquely upward, destroying the upper extremity of the radius, except the head, whence it perforated the humerus above the condyles, causing a comnlete fracture through the trochlea. Primary amputation was probably performed. Contributor and history unknown. 3134. The lower half of the left humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm, after fracture from spherical e. 16. case. The head of the radius is partially fractured, the outer condyle shattered, and an oblique fracture extends four inches up the shaft. Private C. W. A., "C,"lst Maine Heavy Artillery, 23: Petersburg, 18th June; amputated by Surgeon J. S. Jamison, 86th New York, in the field, the same day; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th June; died of pyaemia, 21st July, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 2732. The lower half of the left humerus, amputated after fracture of the lowest fourth with comminution of the inner e. 17. condyle. The flattened conoidal ball is attached to the specimen as it lodged. The section has been made three inches above the highest point of fracture. Private F. H. H., "B," 7th Pennsylvania Reserves, 46: Spottsylvania, 10th May, 1864; amputated on the field the same day. Recovered. Received from the Army of the Potomac. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3227. The lower half of the right humerus and the upper portions of the bones of the forearm. The inferior portion of e. 18. the outer condyle and the anterior face of the head of the radius are fractured, and the humerus is comminuted at the junction of the lower thirds. The injuries appear to have been inflicted by separate missiles, probably fragments of shell. Private P. M., "A," 5th New Jersey, 28: Wilderness, 10th May; amputated in the field, llth May, 1364; transferred to New York City, 20th March, 1865. Artificial limb furnished. Contributed by Surgeon C. C. Jewett. 3023. The bones of the left elbow, after primary amputation in the lowest third of the arm. The olecranon is badly e. 19. fractured, the outer condyle carried away and the head of the radius chipped. Private C. C, "L," 1st Massachusetts Artillery, 21: Petersburg, 16th June; amputated on the field; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 29th June; discharged the service, 29th November, 1864. Received from the Army of the Potomac. 2951. The lower portion of the left humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm, gTeatly shattered by a e. 20. conoidal ball. Private J. B., " G," 7th New York (?) Heavy Artillery: wounded before Petersburg, and amputated in the upper third of the humerus in the field.