18 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION I. 1292. A section of cranium, fractured at the posterior inferior angle of the right parietal bone by a conoidal ball, which b. 36. is attached. Fragments of bone have been removed from a space one and a fourth inches long and three-fourths of an inch wide, the edges of the opening being beveled at the expense of the inner table A fissure of both tables passes forward to the squamous suture. One fragment of the inner table, depressed two lines at its free edge, remains attached. The inner table above the injury shows marks of extensive disease. The ball is flattened and battered. Private W. W., "A," 159th New York, 26: Irish Bend, La., 14th April; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 17th ; died, 27th April, 1863. Coutributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Connor, U. S. Army. See class: XXVII. B. B. d. 774. The vault of the cranium, showing a fracture and depression on the left side of the frontal bone above the b. 37. protuberance. The depressed portion is ovoid, measuring externally three-fourths by one and three-fourths inches. The inner table is fractured more extensively, and the greatest depression is one-fourth of an inch. The broken portion of the outer table has been for the most part removed. The edges of the fracture are rounded externally, as are also the free edges of the inner table. Private A. P. H., " A," 50th Georgia, (Rebel,) 21: the left humerus was badly fractured in the upper third by another ball at the same time, South Mountain, 14th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 27th October; died, exhausted, 25th November, 1862. No cerebral disturbance occurred at any time. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon G. L. Porter, U. S. Army. 1297. A segment of the frontal bone, fractured just above the right orbit by a conoidal ball, which lodged in the b. 38. frontal sinus and is attached. Two fragments of bone are also shown. The opening in the bone is nearly quadrilateral, measuring one inch from right to left, and one and one-fourth inches from above downward. Both walls of the frontal sinus are perforated, and one-fourth inch of the orbital ridge is removed. A fissure of the external table extends to the temporal ridge. Private W. A. O., "B," 25th Connecticut, 28: Irish Bend, La., 14th April; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 17th; fragments removed, 29th April; hernia cerebri appeared, 15th May; died, 21st May, 1863. The ball was found in the frontal sinus. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Connor, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 2072. A segment of cranium fractured with depression of fragments, apparently by a musket ball, at the right parietal b. 39. eminence. The patient lived fifty-two days. Fragments have been removed, leaving an opening one-half by three-fourths of an inch. Two fragments of the inner table remain attached, depressed two lines at their free edges. The edges of the opening are necrosed and in process of separation, and slight deposits of new ossific matter appear on the inner surface. Private P. P., "A," 1st Maryland (Rebel): Gettysburg, 1st July; admitted hospital, Chester, Penna.; died, 21st August, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. A. Draper. 2606. The frontal bone, perforated at the centre of the left supra-orbital ridge by a musket ball, which, with the depiessed b. 40. fragments of bone, was removed by operation. The orbital plate, with one-half inch of the orbital arch, is removed, together with a portion of the inner table one inch in diameter A fragment of the outer table slightly depressed remains in situ, and a fissure passes directly backward to the coronal suture. Private A. P., "G," 14th New Jersey, 32: Cold Harbor, 2d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 10th; fragments removed, 20th; died, 24th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. Ansell. 1719. Five fragments from the left parietal bone, necrosed in consequence of fracture by musket ball, and removed by b. 41. operation with successful result. They include an elliptical surface of bone measuring one by two inches. Private J. McG , "C," 1st Maryland, (Rebel,) 27: Gettysburg, 3d July; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 28th July; fragments removed by Assistant Surgeon E. Brooks, U. S. Army, 3d August, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 1301. A section of cranium, fractured by a musket ball, with depression of fragments, one inch anterior to the right b. 42. parietal eminence. The fractured surface measures one and three-fourth inches antero-posteriorly, and nearly one inch in width, the posterior two-thirds having been removed. A fragment of the inner table remains attached, being depressed two lines at the free edge. A fissure of both tables passes downward into the temporal bone, involving the mastoid and petrous portions and entering the auditory canal. The posterior edge of the opening presents a laminated appearance. Sergeant J. F., " H," 14th Maine, 34: Port Hudson, 25th May; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 29th May, died, 7th June, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Connor, U. S. Army. See 1302, I. C. A. a. 1.