VII. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 170 See class XXVII. B. B. d. 1179. The lower half of the right humerus, comminuted above the condyles involving the joint. The shaft is destroyed f. 81. for three inches and the articular surface carious. Private P. F., " K," 23d New Jersey, 18: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th; amputated by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army, 18th May ; transferred North, 9th June, 18(i3. Contributed by the operator. 269. The bones of the right elbow, as if amputated in the middle third. The inner half of the extremity of the shaft f. 82. has been torn off and all the articular surfaces are carious. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Edward Hartshorne. 29. The upper portions of the bones of the right forearm and the humerus, amputated at the middle for a fracture from f. 83. a conoidal ball which destroyed the trochlea and outer condyle, split off the inner condyle and shattered the head of the radius. The coronoid process of the ulna was also broken off. A few displaced fragments of the head of the radius are retained by the slightest osseous deposits. The ulna articular surface is much eroded. Corporal J. H., "K," 1st Michigan: Malvern Hill, 1st July; admitted hospital, Washington, 4th; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon D. H. Rankin, 20th July, 1862. Recovered from the operation. Contributed by the operator. 225. The bones of the right forearm and a portion of the humerus. The joint was shattered and primary excision, f. 84. removing the upper third of the ulna and the lowest fourth of the humerus, was performed. The ulna is necrosed nearly to its middle, with a small sequestrum yet attached ; the head of the radius is carious; the humerus is diseased nearly to its centre, where it was amputated. About midway of the specimen is a moderate deposit of callus. Private J. A. S., " A," 3d New Jersey: Gaines' Mill, 27th June ; excised by Dr. John Swinburne, Savage's Station, the same day; captured; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 31st July; amputated, 22d September, 1862. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Livezey. See class VII. A. A. c. 2893. The lower half of the right humerus and the upper portions of the bones of the forearm. The external condyle was f. 85. carried away and the humerus obliquely fractured in its lowest third by a conoidal ball. The head of the radius, which may have been touched by the bullet, is partly absorbed, and the articular surface of the olecranon is carious. The humeral extremity is spongy and partly absorbed. A slender sequestrum, nearly detached, occupies the shaft on the posterior surface, and fringes of fragile callus border the fracture. Private H. B., "K," 91st Pennsylvania, 18: Petersburg, 19th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th June; amputated by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols., 21st July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. G. Bates. 331. The lower half of the left humerus and the bones of the forearm. A bullet has passed directly through the f. 86. olecranon, splitting it and the shaft for three inches below the coronoid process. A fragment of the olecranon has become attached to the inner condyle. The greater part of the humeral articular surface and the head of tho radius are carious. Very trivial osseous deposits exist about the fracture. Private C. V., "H," 16th Michigan: Second Bull Run, 30th August; admitted hospital, Washington, 1st September; amputated, 21st October, 1862. Recovered. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army. 1205. The lower half of tho right humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm, after amputation. A ball f. 87. entered the olecranon fossa, destroying the trochlea and tearing up tho coronoid process and anterior portion of the olecranon. The remainder of the articular surface, not involved in the comminution, is carious. Private J. O., "B,"55th Ohio, 17: Chancellorsville, 2d May; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 25th May; amputated tho same day ; discharged the service, 27th August, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon Charles Page, U. S. Army. 3354. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation in the middle third of the humerus. The upper three inches of f. 88. the radius, except the head, are carried away and the articulation is somewhat eroded. Private G. S., "E," 23d Kentucky: Dallas, Ga., 27th May; admitted hospital, Nashville, 10th June; amputated by Surgeon S. E. Fuller, U. S. Vols., loth June, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. 2261. The upper half of the radius, shattered below the head by a bullet which opened tho joint. The missile, some- f. 89. what battered, is mounted with the specimen. Private F. H., "K,"5th New York Cavalry, 29: Wilderness, 9th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 11th May; amputated at the junction of the upper thirds of the humerus by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols.; discharged the service, 7th November, 1864. Contributed by the operator.