V. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 94 2068. The upper half of the right humerus, grooved in the greater tuberosity and posterior part nt' the head by gunshot, b. 11. three weeks after injury. The articular surface is thoroughly disorganized. A fissure on the posterior portion of the shaft is curiously and delicately bordered by necrosis. Private G T. 15., "B," I2th South Carolina (Rebel): Gettysburg, 2d July; admitted hospital, Chester, Penna., Uth; died from exhaustiou from secondary haemorrhage, 22d July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Lewis Fisher. 1460. The upper part of the left humerus, three weeks after injury. The superior and outer portion of the head has b. 12. been gouged by a bullet. There is no attempt at repair. Private J. P., "D," 140th New York. Gettysburg, 1st July; admitted hospital, Baltimore. 14th; died from secondary haemorrhage, 1st July, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Arnty. 3551. The upper half of the left humerus, four weeks after fracture of the great tuberosity. The articulation was b. 13. destroyed by ulceration, and there is no attempt at repair. Private T. T., " G," 62d Pennsylvania, 30: wounded, 8th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 12th May ; able at no time to endure an operation ; died from pyaemia, 5th Juue, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 379©. The upper half of the left humerus and part of the scapula, seventeen days after injury. A conoidal ball b. 14. perforated the shaft transversely below the greater tuberosity, breaking the inner border of the glenoid cavity, and fracturing the fourth rib and spinous process of fourth dorsal vertebra. An oblique fracture separates the head and greater tuberosity from the shaft, a fissure extends into the head, the shaft near the iuner tuberosity is comminuted, and the parts adjoining the track of the ball are necrosed. There is no attempt at repair. The missile is mounted with the specimen. Private A. O., 1st Maine Battery, 23: Cedar Creek, 19th October; admitted hospital and ball removed from the inferior angle of the right scapula, Winchester, 23d October; died from pneumonia, 5th November, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon L. P. Wagner, 114th New York. See classes III. A. B a.; IV. A. 1!. b.; XXVII. B. ii. d. 2696. The superior third of the. left humerus, six weeks after injury. A conoidal ball, which entered three-fourths of an b. 15. inch below the sternal attachment and passed over the second rib, is embedded in the humerus near the bicipital groove. A piece of cloth driven before the bullet yet lodges with it. The articular surface is carious, the shaft is necrosed in the line of fracture below, and there is no attempt at repair. Private A. L., "A," 95th New York: Spottsylvania, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 2tith May; died from exhaustion, 23d June, 1864, Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. See classes XXVII. B. Ii. d ; XXVII. B'. B'. 612. The right scapula with a portion of the clavicle and the upper half of the humerus. The glenoid articular b. 16. surface is eroded and enlarged. There is an oblique fracture through the surgical neck of the humerus extending to the lower part of the articular surface, the whole of which is eroded and carious, and a part of the head is absorbed. The fracture is slightly united by a bridge of callus with some displacement, and four inches of the lower fragment are superficially diseased. Private N. F. W., "H," 35th Massachusetts, 24: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 26th September; died from pyaemia, 25th November, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. Hart. 1978. The upper fourth of the right humerus, ten and a half weeks after shattering at the surgical neck. The epiphysis b. 17. is thoroughly carious and the joint disorganized by ulceration. The fragments of bone are all dead, and there is no attempt at repair. The battered bullet is attached. Private S. P. F., " K," 28th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 21 : Gettysburg, 2d July; died exhausted, 14th September, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Geo. H. Hadley. See class XXVII. B. b. d. 1047. The right scapula and the upper third of the humerus. The humerus is grooved on the anterior face of the b. 18. surgical neck, which is completely fractured and from which a spiral fissure extends three inches down the shaft. The bone is necrosed at the lines of solution. The tip of the acromion and the coracoid are broken off; the spine is fractured longitudinally and transversely. Nearly the whole of a belt one inch broad, parallel with and one inch below the spine is wanting, and the dorsum is covered with a thin periosteal deposit. A good illustration of the effect of a ball through a flat bone in the direction of its plane. Contributed by Dr. Jas. R. Wood.