A. B. 243 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. Private H. W., "A," 3d North Carolina, 20: wounded, 16th October (?); admitted Locust Spring Hospital, from Sharps- burg, Md., 20th November, 1862; transferred to Frederick, 11th May; died, 6th July, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 743. The right os innominatum and upper portion of the femur. The lower two-thirds of the acetabulum are destroyed b. 50. and the greater portion of the head of the femur has been absorbed. That portion of the articulation which remains is carious. On the body of the ilium is a slight deposit of callus. Contibuted by Acting Assistant Surgeon Redfern Davies. 1968. The bones of the right hip joint. The head of the femur was slightly fractured by a musket ball. In the b. 51. specimen it has almost altogether been absorbed. The articular surface of the acetabulum is carious, and ou the anterior and outer surface a slight fringe of callus appears. The adjacent tissues were filled with pus. Private J. E. G., "I," 2d South Carolina, (Rebel,) 22: Gettysburg, 2d July ; died exhausted, 18th October, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon Henry Janes, U. S. Vols. 37 6. The bones of the right hip joint. The head and neck of the femur have been destroyed by gunshot and conse- b. 52. quent caries and absorption. The acetabulum is perfectly destroyed as an articulation and is perforated at its fundus. Received, without history, from Nashville. 622. The bones of the left hip joint, with a portion of the ligaments. A couoidal ball, which entered the femur at the b. 53. level of the great tuberosity, completely fractured the neck and, as it appears in the specimen, dislocated the head and firmly lodged in the body of the ischium. The track of the ball is necrosed, but a small quantity of callus has been thrown out on the anterior surface of the femur. There was very littie displacement in life. Private J. W. C, "D," 81st Pennsylvania: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 2Gth Decem- ber, li-62; died from pyaemia, 2d January, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon John A. Lidell, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3205. The upper extremity of the left femur, with portions of the ilium and ischium. The bullet entered one inch above b. 54. the symphysis and to the left of the median line, shattered the ramus of the pubes, left the obturator vessels untouched, passed through the acetabulum, grooving the head of the femur, and lodged in the loose tissue beyond. The ramus of the ischium appears to have been fractured by indirect violence. The bony fragments in the track of the ball are thoroughly necrosed. Private S. C, "K," 207th Pennsylvania: before Petersburg, probably 25th March; died, Alexandria, 7th April, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols. See classes XI. A. B. b.; XXVII. B. b d. 1410. The head, neck and great trochanter of the right femur. A conoidal ball has shattered the outer half of the head b. 55. and completely fractured the neck. Au apparently suitable case for primary excision. Received from Ninth Corps Hospital, Army of the Potomac. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 2170. The upper two-thirds of the right femur. A conoidal ball passing from above downward struck the base of the b. 56. neck and split the bone obliquely between the tuberosities, at the same time breaking off the head and neck Much of the articular surface is eroded and the fractured extremities are carious. Corporal D. McD., "E," 12th New York Cavalry: Foster's Mills, N. C, 27th July; ball removed, 9th October; died from pyaemia, 1st November, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon A. P. Frick, 103d Pennsylvania. See class XXVII. B. B. d. l'S'2§. The upper extremity of the left femur, shattered below the trochanters and involving the intracapsular portion. b. 57. A conoidal ball comminuted the shaft below the great trochanter, upon the posterior surface of which a curved line ot fracture, with the loss of the laminated bone to the width of one-fifth of au inch, passes upward beneath the capsule. Private T. M., "C," 14th Maine, 31: Cedar Creek, 19th October; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 26th October; died from pyaemia, 5th December, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. G. Keller. For other illustrations, see 1795, XI» A. B. e. 4. c. Caries Dependent upon Injury to Adjacent Parts. 3849. The upper third of the right femur. The cartilage has been entirely removed from the head, which is carious, by c. 1. ulceration following a flesh wound. The acetabulum also was carious. Private T. J. D , "E," 18th Mississippi (Rebel): Antietam, 17th September, 1862; died from erysipelas, Frederick, 19th June, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A. A.