A. B OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 565 removed, and the scars of three lines of incision are seen; one from the centre of the lower lip downward, nearly to the os hyoides, a second from the angle of the mouth to the right angle of the inferior maxilla, and the third, joining the first, from half an inch below the centre of the lower lip outward, nearly parallel with the second, to a point just above the middle of the right side of the lower jaw, where it turns downward at a right angle crossing the body of the bone. Private E. H., " C," 6th Vermont, 22: Winchester, 19th September, 1864 ; operated upon by Dr. Gurdon Buck, New York, 28th February; cast taken, 1st May, 1865. Contributed by the operator. See 265, XXV. A. B. c. 3; 4004, XXV. A. B. c. 5; 4004, XXV. A. B. c. 6. 4004. A cast of the lower portion of the face, prior to a second reparative operation. The cast, taken some months C. 5. afterward, represents substantially the same condition as 485, XXV. A. B. e. 4; the mouth tolerably symmetrical as to the lips, but much drawn to the right side. Private E. H., "C," 6th Vermont, 22: Winchester, 19th September, 1864; operated upon by Dr. Gurdou Buck, New York, 28th February, 1865. Cast taken, 8th January, 1866. Contributed by the operator. See 265, XXV. A. B. c 3; 485, XXV. A. B. c. 4; 4005, XXV. A. B. c. 6. 4005. A cast of the lower portion of the face, four months after a second plastic operation for the relief of cicatrices c. 6. following a severe shell wound of the right lower jaw. By the first operation much of the original cicatricial tissue was removed and the mouth made more symmetrical, although contracted and drawn to the right side. By this operation the mouth has been enlarged to the left so as to be more serviceable and shapely. Private E. H., "C," 6th Vermont, 22: Winchester, 19th September, 1864; first operation by Dr. Gurdon Buck, New York, 28th February, 1865 ; second operation by the same Surgeon, 9th January, 1866. Cast made, May, 1866. Contributed by the operator. See 265, XXV. A. B. c. 3; 485, XXV. A. B. c. 4; 4004, XXV. A. B. c. 5. 2693. A cast of the face, representing great deformity after shell fracture of the inferior maxilla. The tipper half of the C. 7. right ramus and the left ramus with the angle supporting two molar teeth are all that remain of the lower jaw. The chin has lost its prominence by retraction. A cicatrix extends from the middle of the right zygoma to the angle of the mouth, where it is adherent to the alveolar margin of the upper jaw, from which the teeth have been carried away. By this adhesion the upper lip is drawn up and greatly lengthened to the right. The lower lip, having been detached by two lacerations at the right angle, has dropped below its proper level, is curved backward and outward upon itself and is adherent. The separation between the two angles is a finger's breadth; it exposes the end of the tongue and permits the constant escape of saliva. Over the left chin deep and irregular cicatrices bind down the integument. In the original, but not fairly represented in the specimen, was a free, callous, thick border of skin stretching from the adherent right angle of the mouth to the left angle of the jaw. This supported the tongue and was evidently the lacerated edge from which the lower lip had been torn. All the upper teeth are gone between the last right molar and the left canine The tongue is limited as to protrusion by adhesions on the right side. Mastication was impracticable, but deglutition was unimpaired. Articulation was very defective. Private W. S., "I," New York Heavy Artillery, 20: Petersburg, 25th March; cicatrized in September; admitted New York City Hospital, 26th October, 1865, where the cast was taken. Contributed by Dr. Gurdon Buck. See 2694, XXV. A. B. c. 8. See class II. A. B. c. 2694. A cast of the face, representing the result of a plastic operation for the relief of the deformity represented in c. 8. 2693, XXV. A. B. c. 7. The right cheek has been loosened, the right extremity of each lip has been detached from its cicatricial fastening, the angle has been formed anew, and a complete mouth, though much smaller and somewhat protuberant, has been made. The operation was as follows: a horizontal incision along the cicatricial line, crossing the chin to a point below the left angle of the mouth, detached the lower lip. Its entire thickness with its lining mucous membrane was divided. The new angle was formed by paring away the border, at a point on the margin of the upper lip equidistant with the left angle from the median line. Corresponding treatment was applied to the lower lip and the cut surfaces were brought into accurate apposition. The adherent right extremity of the upper lip was dissected up from its alveolar adhesions and an incision was carried upward along the upper margin of the cicatrix, crossing the cheek as high as the zygoma. The skin and subjacent tissue were freely detached toward the temple. Another incision from the termination of the one detaching the lower lip below the left angle of the mouth was carried across the chin to the right, a finger's breadth below the callous border described in 2693, and was continued over the cheek, below and close to the cicatrix, as far as the zygoma. A third incision, from the origin of the last one, was carried perpendicularly two inches downward upon the neck. The integument in the angle between these and that below the incision across the right cheek was extensively detached from the parts beneath. An upper and lower flap, including the entite right cheek and nearly the whole chin, were thus formed. They were separated by the cicatrix crossing the cheek,