CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 616 XXVII. 2353. A cono'idal ball, which lias struck base first, the cupped portion d. 201. being flattened over a diameter of nearly one and a third inches. See figure 17C. . Private E. P. M , "K," 5th Alabama (Rebel). Extracted from the upper third of the right thigh. Contributed by Aetiug Assistant Surgeon S. B. Hoppin. 2976. A conoidal ball, with a longitudinal half obliquely and roughly torn d. 202. off and the opposite side of the cup rolled up outwardly upon itself. Private A. B., "H," I9tb Indiana: the right angle of the mouth ' ' . , , , Flfi. 17«. Front and side views or a conoidal ball silt, the upper surface 01 the tongue cut, the lower jaw fractured at its angle, ltattrn.d by striking base rirst. Spcr. 2353. Antietam, 17th September; the jaw became anchylosed with the teeth three- fifths of an inch apart; an inch of the angle came away, 30th October; ball extracted from behind the angle by Acting Assistant Surgeon Geo. F. French, Alexandria, 4th November, 1862. Contributed by the operator. 2751. A conoidal ball, with two portions smoothly cut off the body and base at an obtuse angle to each other. A d. 203. fragment of the lower ring stands out from the bottom of the cup. Private C. C. C, "E," 39th Massachusetts: entered apex of the shoulder, Weldon R R., 18th August . admitted hospital, Washington, 24th; extracted from the middle third, 31st August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Charles H. Bowen. 573. A conoidal ball, split longitudinally into two nearly equal parts from the apex to the base and pressed open so that d. 204. the«two surfaces are in the same plane. The weight of the missile is ^j, 3iij, gr. xxiv., and its greatest length two inches. It had passed through one man at Gettysburg and inflicted a deep flesh wound in the thigh of another, from whom it was extracted by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Baltimore, a few days afterward See MacLeod's Notes, p. 107, Contributed by the operator. See B'. 4427. A conoidal ball, with the base somewhat compressed and elongated. d. 205. Private R. T., "C," 154th New York: entered between the tenth and eleventh ribs of the right side five inches from the spine, struck a small spicula off the tenth, passed under the fascia and lodged under the intercostal muscles opposite, one and a half inches above the point of entrance, Gettysburg, 1st July; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 11th; cut out, 10th October, 1863; wound healed ; discharged for liability to subacute pleuritis on exposure. Contributed by Surgeon C. W. Jones, U. S. Vols. See B'. 4694. A conoidal ball, deeply grooved obliquely, with spicules of bone embedded and a large fragment of cloth attached, d. 206. Private S. M., "D," 10th Pennsylvania Reserves. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon D. W. Rankin. See B'. B'. 4429. A conoidal ball, flattened at the apex, a part of which is missing, compressed at the base and roughened on d. 207. one side. Sergeant A G. B., "I," 139th Pennsylvania : entered the right nates, on a line with tho anus, to the depth of seven inches, Chancellorsville, 3d May; discovered between the tuberosity of the ischium and anus and an unsuccessful incision made, Philadelphia, 10th July ; removed by another incision made through the rectum at the verge of the anus. Recovered without a fistula. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon L. K. Baldwin. 4487. A conoidal ball, slightly roughened, which entered the neck a little to the right of the trachea and one and a half d. 208. inches above the stemo-clavicular articulation while the man was erect, and removed from over the body of the scapula three inches below its spine. An instance of circuitous travel by a conoidal ball. Private L. W., "D," 68th New York: Second Bull Run, 30th August; extracted, 5th September, 1862. Discharged for fractured arm. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon S. E. Fuller. See B'. 2678. A thin, irregular fragment of lead, one-half by one inch, considered a part of a percussion ball extracted from d. 209. the right radio-carpal articulation three days after injury at Gettysburg. Private R. B., "C," 12th U. S. Infantry. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon E. de W. Breueman, U. S. Army.