CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION VI. 120 2861. A portion of the shaft of the humerus, longitudinally fractured for six inches, with comminution from a fragment b. 10. of shell, which is attached. Received, without history, from Petersburg. See class XXVII. B. a. c. 4007. The lower half of the left humerus, comminuted at the junction of the lower thirds by a conoidal ball, with a b. 11. fragment of the missile attached. Received, without history, from Ninth Corps Hospital. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 2648. The lower half of the left humerus, shattered from behind just above the condyles, and showing the trabeculae b. 12. in the lower portion of the shaft. The fractures are nearly six inches in length. Received, without history, after Chancellorsville. 688. The lower half of the left humerus, greatly comminuted by grapeshot in the lowest third, b. 13. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. E. Semple, U. S. Army. 3933. The upper two-thirds of the right humerus, comminuted at their junction, b. 14. Private G. S. R., "K," 31st Georgia (Rebel). Received, without history, from Frederick, Md. 1559. The lower two-thirds of the right humerus, affording a typical illustration of injury from a conoidal ball at short b. 15. range striking a long bone fairly in the centre of the shaft. The bullet, impinging against the external surface in the lower part of the middle third, destroyed the bone to an extent corresponding to its own calibre and created a stellate fracture with eight rays.. Having passed through the shaft a much larger irregular portion has been torn away at its exit, and the fractures have diverged so as to embrace a length of five inches on the posterior surface. History and contributor unknown. 1564. The lower half of the left humerus that has been shattered in the middle. The jagged ends of this specimen will b. 16. illustrate how gunshot fracture often converts sound bune into a body of irritation. Contributor and history unknown. c. Excisions. 3334. The right humerus, exhibiting an excision of one inch in the lowest third. Both of the extremities arc necrosed, C. 1. and superficial death has involved the greater part of the shift. The fracture that is observed in the upper third occurred to the specimen after it reached the museum. Corporal H. F. K., "A," 184th Pennsylvania: wounded and excised on the field, Petersburg, 18th June; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 29th June: died after secondary hemorrhage, 23d July, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols. 2347. The lower portion of the left humerus, from which more than an inch appears to have been shattered and excised, c. 2. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon B. Stone, U. S. Vols. 2521. Two fragments of the shaft of the humerus, representing one and a half inches in length and nearly three-fourths c. 3. of the circumference, excised. Received, without history, after Chancellorsville. 723. The right humerus, from which two inches in the middle third of the shaft have been excised. The divided c. 4. extremities are necrosed and exfoliating. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols. 623. Two and one-fourth inches of the shaft of the humerus, showing an oblique fracture without comminution, and c. 5. supposed to have been excised. Contributed by Dr. Douelly. 2409. An irregular excised portion of the shaft of the humerus, three inches in its greatest length, c. 6. Contributed by Surgeon J. H. Brinton, U. S. Vols. 1430. c. 7. Three inches of the shaft of the humerus in fragments, excised after Gettysburg. Contributed by Surgeons Cautwell and Kibbee, Eleventh Corps.