312 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION, ETC. XIII. c. Diseases. 128. The upper extremity of the right femur, showing deformity C. 1. of the neck simulating consolidated intracapsular fracture. The neck is shortened and partly turned upon itself, prob- ably the result of interstitial absorption. A longitudinal section which has been made demonstrates"that there has been no fracture, although the subject, in his last illness, told his medical attendant that he had fractured bis thigh by a fall several years previously. Sec figures 103, 104, 105. From a soldier who died of chronic diarrhoea, Louisville, Ky. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon B. E. Fryer, U. S. Army. 610. A cauliflower exostosis, two inches in diameter, removed C. 2. from above the inner condyle of the femur. Contributed by Surgeon D. P. Smith, U. S. Vols. 4046* The upper two-thirds of the left femur, exhibiting two fractures C. 3. of the shaft with a pathological tumor between them. After the specimen was mounted it was impossible to determine the specific character of the morbid growth. Private J. C, "E," 91st Indiana: reported as dying from osteo-sarcoma. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon F. H. Colton. 2979. The lower half of the left femur, from which a section has been C. 4. cut exposing a large abscess. The shaft is thickened externally, and a sinus from the carious cavity communicates externally with the posterior surface. W. E. Q., (Negro,) 19: subject a native of Tennessee, of tubercular diathesis, had been greatly exposed with Geneial Sherman's Army; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 16th May; died from phthisis, 20th November, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols 2738. The greater portion of the shaft of the left femur, shattered in the middle third by a round ball, which has split in C. 5. two. The borders of the fragment show the etching of incipient necrosis; but the special feature of the specimen is an osteo-tumor in its upper portion, three by four inches in its greatest dimensions, whose principal attachment is on the posterior surface and which has grown forward, embracing the shaft. It presents such an appearance as might follow the moulding of a quantity of soft bone to the shaft. The history does not bear upon its cause or course. Private E. L., " H," 37th Wisconsin, 34: Petersburg, 17th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 1st July ; amputated by Assistant Surgeon Geo. A. Mursick, U. S. Vols., 3d; died of pysemia, 9th July, 1864. Contributed by the operator. See classes XIII. A. B. d. ; XXVII. B. b. d. 4556. The lower half of the left femur, amputated for disease secondarily involving the joint. A partially separated C. 6. sequestrum occupies the lower four inches of the posterior portion of the specimen. This is bordered longitudinally on both sides and is overhung at the superior portion by fragile and foliaceous new bone formation. The extremity of the diaphysis, which is covered anteriorly with the same new formation, is carious in its totality. The integrity of the articular surface has not been violated. No assignable cause was discovered for the disease. C. M., (colored.) 14: of scrofulous diathesis, under treatment two months; amputated by Surgeon R. Reyburn, U. S. Vols., Washington, 30th September, 1866. Convalescent when contributed. Contributed by the operator. See classes XIV. B. B. g.; XIV. C. ■738. The upper portions of each femur, exhibiting superficial caries over a space of two square inches, the result of C. 7. long continued pressure which produced bed sores in a case of paraplegia. A. R, (colored,) 29: admitted hospital paraplegic, Washington, 1st July, 1865; died. 8th November, 1866. There was fatty degeneration of most of the viscera. Contributed by Hospital Steward Algernon M. Squier, U S. Army. For other illustrations, see 4001, XIII. A. A. d. 15; 3563, XIV. A. B f. 180; 2455, XIV. B. a. e. 2.