A.B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 65 Sergeant W. W. C, "H," 2Gth Massachusetts: Opequan, 19th September; thigh amputated in the upper third by Assistant Surgeon J. N. Brant, 9th New York Heavy Artillery, 20th September; died exhausted, with partial paralysis of the right leg, 3d November, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. Leon Hammond. See classes XVI. A. A. e. ; XIII. A. a. d. ; XXVII. 13. B. d. 2447. The eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebra?. The spinous process of the twelfth is vertically fractured near its b. 25. extremity, and the body of the vertebra is transversely fractured with comminution in its superior fourth. The fractured edges are necrosed, and the bony walls of the canal show traces of suppuration. W. P., Sailmaker's Mate, U. S. S "Sciota": blown up by a torpedo, and received on U. S. S. "Tallahatchie," Mobile Bay, Ala., 14th April; died in hospital, Pensacola, Fla., 5th May, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon P. J. Horwitz, Chief of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, U. S. Navy. 1198. The sacrum and last three lumbar vertebra1. A round ball opened the sacrum from the rear, entered the spinal b. 26. canal, and remained between the theca and the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra. There was no paralysis of sensation or motion. Private M. H., "D," 13th New York: Gaines' Mill, 27th June; died, exhausted, Philadelphia, 27th December, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. W. Morehouse. See class XXVII. B. it. d. 1791. Portions of several cervical vertebra? four weeks after injury, showing the bodies ot the third and fourth nearly b. 27. entirely carried away by gunshot and subsequent suppuration. The borders of the cavity are necrosed, and the membranes have ulcerated sufficiently to expose a laige extent of the cord. The specimen illustrates how life may be preserved for a long time after extensive injury to the spinal canal. Private E. W. V., " K," 1st Virginia Cavalry (Rebel): wounded, 13th April; died, ]]th May, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon B. Beust, U. S. Vols. 3984. The fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth dorsal vertebra?. A conoidal ball which entered the left intervertebral b. 28. notch between the fourth and fifth vertebra?, slightly fracturing the pedicle, and then lodged point downward in the canal, is sawn through in a section made at that point. Private C. S., "E," 87th Pennsylvania: admitted hospital, paraplegic, Frederick, 10th July; died, 13th October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. S. Adams. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 4082. The fifth and sixth dorsal vertebra? and a portion of the fourth. A conoidal ball entered near the left clavicle, b. 29. passed downward through the third, fourth and fifth vertebra?, and was found lying against the sixth rib on the right side. The body of the fourth is carried away and the transverse process of the fifth is shattered, together with the terminations of the fifth and sixth ribs. Slight deposits of new osseous matter are seen. Private G. H. C, "H," 64th New York, 17: probably Petersburg, 25th March; admitted hospital, Washington, 30th March; died, 5th April, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. P. Arthur. 757. The second, third and fourth dorsal vertebra?. A conoidal ball entered above the right transverse process ot b. 30. the third and emerged from the corresponding intervertebral notch on the left side of the spinal column. Private J. J., 14th Connecticut: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 20th September; died, 11th October, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon G. L. Porter, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 2532. The lumbar vertebra?, with (he third fractured by a conoidal ball which is attached. The missile appears to b. 31. have passed from the left directly through the intervertebral notch between the third and fourth vertebra?, chipping the superior articular process of the fifth and the adjacent portion of the spinous process of the fourth, fracturing the left transverse process of the fourth, and emerging through the body of that vertebra on the right side. Life continued long enough for incipient caries to present itself. Contributed by Surgeon John A. Lidell, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 4083. The seventh cervical and first seven dorsal vertebra?. A conoidal ball entered near the eighth vertebra on the b. 32. right side and passed upward and inward through the bodies of each, shattering them, until it lodged in the third against the bottom of the second. The left transverse processes of the sixth and seventh are carried away, and the right ones are fractured. A nearly transverse section has been made through the body of the fifth, which is fractured, and its right lamina shattered. The bodies of the third and fourth are much shattered. Very slight new osseous deposits occur at various points on the specimen. Sergeant J. T. H., " B," 60th Georgia, (Rebel,) 24: probably Petersburg, 25th March : admitted hospital, Washington, 30th March; died, 4th April, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. P. Arthur. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 9