VII. CATALOGUE OF TIIE SURGICAL SECTION 168 180. The lower half of the right humerus, with a partly split conoidal ball impacted against the shaft posteriorly, f. 63. apparently amputated. A complete fracture passes through the trochlea, and the compact bone .of the olecranon depression has many fissures. An oblique fracture extends three and a half inches up the shaft. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 4053. The bones of the left elbow, after amputation for oblique fracture of two inches of the radius with loss of f. 64. substance. The upper part of the amputated portion has been removed. Private E. B., "D," 7th New York, SI: Petersburg, 31st March; admitted hospital, Washington, Gth April; amputated by Assistant Surgeon Alfred Delaney, U. S. Volunteers, 11th April, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 996. The bones of the left elbow. While flexed a conoidal ball, entering over but not touching the olecranon, f. 65. comminuted the ulnar portion of the trochlea, nearly detached the inner condyle, chipped the coronoid process and escaped over the head of the radius. The condyle is partially reunited by slight deposits of callus, the bony track of the ball is carious and the articular surfaces are destroyed by ulceration. Private E. M., 81st Pennsylvania, 35: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Point Lookout, Md., lGth December, 1862; amputated in the middle third by Acting Assistant Surgeon John Stearns, January, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. Wagner, U. S. Army. 350. The lower half of the left humerus, after amputation for fracture of the joint. The outer condyle has been carried f. 66. away and a large fragment of the shaft split off and afterward partially reunited. Private A. H. S., "D," 3d Maine: Bull Run, 21st July; admitted hospital, Washington, 22d; erysipelas occurred, 23d July; amputated, about 20th August; discharged healed, 21st September, 1861. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. W. S. Gouley, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A. a. 2566. The lower half of the left humerus, amputated for comminution of the lowest third with a fracture extending f. 67. through the trochlea. The borders of the fracture are necrosed, and on the posterior surface of the shaft there has been some periosteal deposit. Private A. D., "E," 8th New York Heavy Artillery: Cold Harbor, 3d June; amputated, Washington, 20th; died, 23d June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols. 653. The lower half of the left humerus, amputated. The bone is comminuted through the coronoid and olecranon f. 68. fossae, the internal condyle and ulnar portion of the trochlea are detached, and an oblique fissure runs two inches up the anterior border of the shaft. The articular surface is carious. Private P. McC, 140th Pennsylvania, 26: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, P)iut Lookout, 16th December, 1862; amputated by Assistant Surgeon C. Wagner, U. S. Army, 1st January, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. See 931, VIII. A. 13. d. 35. 2027. The olecranon and the lower extremity of the left humerus, amputated just above the epiphysis for extensive f. 69. disorganization of the soft parts following fracture of the inner condyle. Private W. H, Rappahannock Station, 7th November; admitted hospital, Washington, 9th; amputated by Surgeon R. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols., 23d November, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. 2325. The lower extremity of the left humerus and parts of the bones of the forearm. Primary excision of the upper f. 70. fourths of the radius and ulna had been performed, and the extremity of the ulna is superficially necrosed. The extremity of the humerus is eroded. Captain J. G. C, "E," 86th New York: Wilderness, 6th May; excised, 7th; admitted hospital, Washington, 16th; amputated in the middle third by Assistant Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. Army, 22d May; discharged the service, 19th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. See class VII. A. A. c. 907. The lower half of the right humerus, apparently amputated for fracture and involvement of the joint. The f. 71. missile has impinged against the anterior surface just above the condyles, causing an oblique fracture of the shaft, a transversely oblique fracture through the coronoid fossa and outer condyle, and a vertical fracture through the trochlea. The articular surface is carious, the borders of the fracture are necrosed and slight osseous deposits have occurred in the shaft. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. E. Keyes.