455 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 13. f a. Not operated upon. Secondary Conditions. £ ^^2: { d. Other operations. a. Not Operated Upon. 3410. A wet preparation, showing an opening by ulceration from a conoidal ball lodging against the innominata just, a. 1. below the origin of the carotid. "A diffused aneurism had formed around it." Private W. A. J., "A," 7th Virginia, 26: date of injury not reported; admitted hospital, Washington, 30th October; died from secondary haemorrhage, 31st October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon C. B. McQuesten. 2576. A wet preparation of the left axillary artery, which has sloughed in the middle of its course after gunshot, a. 2. Private A. A., "F," 25th Massachusetts, 25: musket ball entered axilla and was extracted on the posterior border of the scapula, Cold Harbor, 3d June; profuse secondary haemorrhage, checked by compression and per- sulphate of iron, Washington, 15th and lGth; axillary ligated and death occurred, 17th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. L. Herriinan. See class XVIII. II. A. B. b. 881. A wet preparation of the left common, external and internal carotid arteries, the last of which was wounded and a. 3. is impermeable. Private L. E., 22: a bullet entered his open mouth, passed through the middle of the left anterior pillar of the fauces and escaped through the back of the neck, two inches from the spinous process of the second cervical vertebra on the same side, causing profuse haemorrhage followed by syncope for several hours, Antietam, 17th September; doing well until two slight arterial haemorrhages occurred, Frederick, 31st October and 2d November; paralysis left side of the face, 13th November; died, 14th November, 1862. Injection of the carotid arteries revealed the left internal closed, after two and a half inches, by an organized cul dc sac, its distal termination and its branches being undiscovered. It appears the bullet laid open the internal carotid, and a coagulum, sufficient to arrest further haemorrhage, was formed while fainting, and the remainder of the artery was disintegrated and carried away by suppuration. The succeeding haemorrhages may have occurred from minute openings in the external carotid occuning spontaneously and arrested in like manner. (See Am. Jour. Med. Sci. January, 1863, pp. 79-80.) Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Redfern Davies. See 778, HI. A. B a. 11. 2222. A wet preparation of a portion of the right common, external and internal carotid arteries, showing a solution of a. 4. the coats of the artery near the origin of the internal maxillary. Corporal R. I. F., "F," 60th New York, 22: right superior maxilla shattered by a ball which entered the nose and escaped near the right ear, Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th; secondary haemorrhages, 9th and 11th ; died, 11th May, 1863. The alarm of the patient prevented active surgical interference. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. F. Bates. 2343. A wet preparation of the carotid artery, without a complete history. a 5. There is an enlarged open sac communicating with the vessels midway of the specimen, believed to be occasioned by the lodgement of a bullet. The walls of the sac are much thickened. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. W. S. Gouley, U. S. Army. 1742. A wet preparation of the larynx and tissues on the right side of that organ. A bullet entered the upper lip to a. 6. the left of the median line, passed through the tongue and escaped through the external border of the middle of the sterno-cleido-niastoid. A glass tube in the specimen indicates the course of the bullet. The right common carotid sloughed in the track of the missile, as seen by a director of wood passed through the vessel. Private E. H. D., " K," 86th New York, 22: probably Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th ; died from secondary haemorrhage, 12th May, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. P. Wyer. 2835. A wet preparation of the left subscapular artery, which has sloughed after gunshot. a. 7. Private F. M. D., " D," 35th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 27: conoidal ball through axilla, Petersburg, 16th June ; admitted hospital, Washington, 25th June ; secondary haemorrhage checked by pressure and persulphate of iron, 10th July; haemorrhage recurred and death, 12th July, 1864.