XXV. CASTS. A. After Gunshot. C a. Head and neck. A. Injuries. b. Upper extremities. Trunk, d. Lower extremities. a. Head and Neck. 1567- A cast, designed to exhibit the effect of paralysis of the seventh pair of nerves on the left side from gunshot a. 1. injury of the face. The lesion is so slight that it is not clearly shown. Private J. C. D., "E," 71st Pennsylvania, 19: Gettysburg, 3d July, 1863; discharged the service, 2d July, 1SG4. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. IS 16. A cast of the face, showing paralysis of the left side following a wound by a conoidal ball which entered beneath a. 2. the left orbit near the infra-orbital foramen, fractured the lower portion of the malar bone and emerged below the left mastoid process. The cicatrix of the wound of entrance, slightly depressed, is very noticeable. The expression is characteristic. The wound remained painful and the saliva mingled with the discharge of the posterior wound. Private W. S., "D," 7th Wisconsin: Gettysburg, 1st July, 1863; transferred West for muster-out, 30th September, 1864. Cast made in Philadelphia. Eeceived from Turner's Lane Hospital. 1401. A cast of the faee, with the left angle of the mouth extended by a wound from a fragment of shell. The wound a. 3. curves outward and backward towards the ear, and the posterior portion has united as far forward as the last molar tooth. From this point to the angle of the mouth the edges have cicatrized separately, the inferior edge being thickened and rolled outward, while the upper edge is turned in and adherent to the superior maxilla. Private J. C. J., "A," 61st Pennsylvania, 18: Spottsylvania, 11th May, 1864; cast made in Pittsburg; discharged the service, 20th April, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon James Bryan, U. S. Vols. 1554. A cast of the head, showing deformity resulting from gunshot wound of the face. A conoidal ball entered one a. 4. inch below the internal angle of the left eye and passed across to the right side of the neck, fracturing the hard palate and inferior maxilla. The cicatrix of the wound of entrance is small and depressed. The right side of the face is much tumefied, the swelling occupying the malar region and angle of the lower jaw. The right corner of the mouth is depressed and slightly open. Private J. A. S., " C," 98th Pennsylvania, 24: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; transferred to Veteran Reserve Corps, 4th November, 1863. Cast made in Philadelphia. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeons C. Carter and C. B. King. See 4518, XXVII. B. B. d. 112. b. Upper Extremities. 1*1*. A cast of the left hand in a semi-flexed position. There is nothing noticeable in the specimen beyond a depression b. 1. between the metacarpals of the thumb and index finger. The history describes a wound of the ulnar nerve above the elbow which resulted in atrophy and partial loss of use of the hypothenar iuterosseus, two ulnar lumbricales, adductor pollicis aud the ulnar head of the flexor brevis pollicis. Private S. D. B., " B," 144th Pennsylvania. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr.