XII 242 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 116. The lower portion of the left os innominatum. The thyroid bolder of the acetabulum is broken in by a bullet b. 41. which entered behind the right greater trochanter, perforated the rectum and impinged against the left ischium, as seen in the specimen. The bone, where struck, is necrosed, and the articular surface is much eroded. Private L. M. B., " I," 1st Massachusetts : Second Bull Run, 30th August; admitted hospital, Georgetown, 6th September; died, 1st October, 1862. Contributor unknown. 3793. The bones of the right hip joint, with the head of the femur shattered and split off from the neck by a conoidal b. 42. ball which has lodged against the border of the acetabulum. There has been some ulceration of the bottom of the cotyloid cavity. Corporal W. F., "C," 24th Iowa, 25: Cedar Creek, 19th October; died from pyrcmia, Winchester, 3d November, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon L P. Wagner, 114th New York. See class XXVII. B. u. d. 1248. The upper portion of the left femur. A bullet, which perforated the acetabulum and lodged in the pelvis, has b. 43. shattered the head of the femur. Erysipelatous inflammation and extensive abscesses followed, but there was no trace of pyaemia. Corporal G. G., "D," 13th Massachusetts, 21: Chancellorsville, 4th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th; died ex- hausted, 16th May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A. A. 1843. The upper portion of the right femur, with the head shot away by a bullet passing through the acetabulum into b. 44. the pelvic cavity. Of the neck that remained much has been absorbed, and the extremity is carious. There is a formation of new bone between the trochanters. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. Hunt Stillwell. 2174. The bones of the left hip joint. A conoidal ball from the front shattered the head at its junction with the neck, b. 45. notched the ischium just below the acetabulum and lodged in the pelvis without injury to the viscera. The borders of the bony wound are necrosed. Private R. S., "K," 13th Illinois: Ringgold, Ga.; admitted hospital, Nashville, 15th December; died exhausted, 21st December, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon John W. Foye, U. S. Vols. 2493. The left os innominatum and upper extremity of the femur. A conoidal ball entered above the lesser iscbiatic b. 46. notch, fractured the iliac portion of the acetabulum and the head of the femur and, rebounding, was caught by a hook-like process in a mesenteric pouch. Private W. B., 19th New York Battery, 24: Spottsylvania, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th May; died, 9th June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. Army. 533. The bones of the right hip joint. A bullet has struck the outer aspect of the great trochanter, passed through b. 47. the neck nearly in the axis of its long diameter, carried off the inner fourth of the head of the femur, destroyed the third of the acetabulum next the thyroid foramen and, having been slightly deflected, fractured the pubes near the symphysis. The acetabulum is eroded, but the articular surface of the femur, where not fractured, is not roughened. A slight longitudinal fissure exists below the great trochanter. Contributor and history uuknown. 1942. The right os innominatum and the upper portion of the femur. A bullet appears to have impinged against the b. 48. acetabulum in its lowest region, chipping the inferior border of the head of the femur A fracture extends through the acetabulum at the point of impact, which is necrosed, nearly the entire remainder ot the articular surface is carious, and a large portion of the head of the femur has been absorbed. Slight osseous deposits exist on the outer margin of the acetabulum. Private M. B. P., "E," 6th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 36: Gettysburg, 3d July; died from pysemia, 17th September, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. P. Townsend. 3865. The right os innominatum and upper extremity of the femur. A round bullet has entered obliquely from the b. 49. right front, fractured the superior portion of the head of the femur, perforated the acetabulum and lodged in the body of the ilium without derangement to its own form. One-half of the head of the femur has been absorbed, the anterior superior third of the acetabulum is carious and partially detached ; near the fundus of thp acetabulum ulceration has perforated the bone; and the bullet communicates with the head of the femur by a carious channel. The missile is encircled with a wall of new bone thrown out from the irritation of its presence ; there is also a considerable deposit of callus on the ilio-pubic region, causing during life a prominence in the region of Poupart's ligament. The dorsum ilii and the posterior surface of the body of the ischium show evidence of periosteal inflammation. The fracture was not diagnosed for several months.