CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION IX. 200 e. Disarticulations. 3022. The second row of carpal bones and the last four metacarpals. The second and third metacarpal bones were e. 1. fractured by shell and partially necrosed; caries has involved the carpo-metacarpal articulation, and amputation has been performed between the two carpal rows. Private J. V., "C," 3d New Hampshire: Dairy's Bluff, 16th May; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 20th May; disarticulated by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. P. Moon, 16th July, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by Surgeon Joseph Hopkinson, U. S. Vols. For other illustrations, see 3674, VIII. A. B. a. 3; 135, X. A. 1$. d. 14; 4197, XXI. A. B. b. 10. f. Amputations in Forearm or Arm. 2252. The lowest thirds of the bones of the left forearm. The radius has been fairly perforated near the extremity by f. 1. a moderately small missile, which appears to have passed into the wrist joint. Fissures extend into the articulation and a longitudinal fracture runs three inches up the shaft. The line of amputation appears to pass through an old consolidated fracture of the radius Sergeant G. M., "E," 5th Michigan, 22: admitted hospital, Washington, 17th August; amputated, 21st August; discharged the service, 6th December, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon S. Graham. See class VIII. B. B. b. 3255. The right carpus and metacarpus and lower halves of the bones of the forearm. This man was wounded by a f. 2. couoidal ball which entered the posterior portion of the loft deltoid one and a half inches above the border of the axilla, emerged through the pectoralis major, over the superior border of the fourth rib, four and a half inches to the left of the median line, and reentered the subject in the middle third of the palmar aspect of the right forearm. In the specimen the radius is seen to be obliquely fractured at the junction of the lower thirds and chipped at its inner articular border, and the carpus is nearly wanting, as though destroyed by caries. The heads of the metacarpal bones are also carious. Sergeant S. M. E., "K," 17th Pennsylvania Cavalry, 44: Trevillian Station, Va., 12th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 21st June; amputated for gangrene by Acting Assistant Surgeon John Winslow, in the middle of forearm, 17th September, 1864; discharged, 4th April, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A. 1$. 1913. The lower halves of the bones of the left forearm, comminuted two inches above the wrist by a bullet. The soft f. 3. parts were much burned and the wound was probably caused by the patient's own piece, which he denied. A longitudinal fracture extends down the radius into the joint. Private J. S ," I," 17th Kentucky: on picket, 22d April; admitted hospital, Nashville, 23d April; amputated in the middle third, after gangrene, 12th May, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Gray, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A. B. 2768. The bones of the lower half of the left forearm. The radius was contused in its lowest third and is necrosed for f. 4. nearly three inches, the lower extremity of the ulna was carried away, and a nearly detached sequestrum extends for six inches up the shaft. Private N. L. N., "A," 4th U. S. Artillery, 24: Gettysburg, 1st July; admittel hospital, Philadelphia, 5th July; amputated in the middle third, after hospital gangrene, 3d September, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. C. Dixon. See class XXIII. A. ii. 3327. The lower halves of the bones of the left forearm. The lower two inches of the ulna are shattered, involving f. 5. the joint. Private W. A., "D," 16th Michigan: Cold Harbor, 2d June; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 9th; amputated in the middle third by Surgeon Charles Page, U. S. Army, 4th July ; died from gastro-enteritis, 10th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon S. D. Twining. 2005. A ligamentous preparation of the right carpus and metacarpus and adjacent portions of the bones of the forearm, f. 6. The radius was completely fractured two and a half inches above the articulation. The outer and inner borders remain in the specimen, but the intermediate tissue has been removed. Private A. L., "A," 63d Pennsylvania: Mine Run, 27th November; admitted hospital, near Alexandria, 4th December; amputated by Surgeon D. P. Smith, U. S. Vols., 13th; died exhausted, 15th December, 1863. Contributed by the operator.