XXX. LOWER ANIMALS. 3120. The cranium of a horse, killed in the battle of Antietam. A bullet entered the right frontal bone at it* junction with the nasal. The orifice of entrance is regular and the bone is slightly bevelled internally. In its passage posteriorly, the missile has produced great comminution of the ethmoid and lesser wing of the sphenoid. Contributed by Hospital Steward A. J. Schafhirt. 31:27. The cranium of a rabid dog, killed by a small conoidal pistol ball which entered at the junction of the right temporal and parietal bones immediately above the condyle of the lower jaw. One fissure passed back to the occipital bone and another forward to the superior orbital process of the frontal. The missile is attached. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. B. Stone, U. S. Vols. 3169. The left humerus of a common goose, after fracture in the middle third by the bite of a dog. Union has occurred by new bone formation over a transverse interspace of an inch and a half. Contributed by Hospital Steward A. J. Schafhirt. 3122. The phalanx of an ox, exhibiting an exostosis over its lower two thirds, large in volume and spongy in character. Contributed by Surgeon Robert Wm. Pounds. 3249. A part of the inferior maxilla of a South Devon bull, three and a half years old, upon the left ramus of which is developed a large osteo-sarcomatous tumor of six months' growth. " The animal became thin in flesh soon after the tumor made itu appearance, and remained so till he was killed." It is supposed to be the same disease that is known by the New England fanners as " Wolf." Contributed by Dr. C. H. Nichols, Superintendent Government Hospital for the Insane. See 3275 and 3281, following, from the same case. 3275. A lymphatic gland from the left side of the neck of a bull, killed for osteo-sarcoma of the lower jaw. Contributed by Dr. C. H. Nichols. See 3249, above. 3281. The parotid gland from the left side of a bull, killed on account osteo-sarcoma ot the lower jaw. Contributed by Dr. C. H. Nichols. See 3249, above. Note.—The number of specimens retained in the Surgical Section and described in this Catalogue is 4719. The discrepancy between this total and that given on page 3, Circular 6, Surgeon General's office, 1865, results from discarding many preparations of no intrinsic interest on account of imperfections in their histories.