259 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. B. Contributed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols. 2675. The greater portion of the shaft of the right femur. The bone is necrosed at a point of contusion on the inner a. 8. surface in the middle third, above and below which, nearly the extent of the specimen, it is greatly roughened by suppuration. Private C. C. M., "K," 6th New York Heavy Artillery, 42: Wilderness, 9th May; admitted hospital near Alexandria, 25th May ; died of pyaemia, 2d July, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon D. P. Smith, U. S. Vols. 1104. The lower half of the left femur, severely contused, as if by a round bullet, on the outer surface of the lowest a. 9. third of the shaft. The point of impact is necrosed, and a certain deposit of callus as well as loss of bone is observable on the posterior surface. An oblique fissure entirely around the bone may be traced by the line of repair. The specimen is a beautiful illustration of the external effects of contusion. The injury to the inner condyle appears to be a post mortem accident. Contributor and history unknown. 740. The upper third of the left femur, exhibiting a necrosed spot on its inner aspect following a bruise and chipping a. 10. by a musket ball. Excessive inflammation and suppuration with periostitis and ostitis followed, with consecutive inflammation of the knee and hip joints. A. F., "H," blst New York: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 24th September; femoral artery ligated, 3d November; died of suppurative exhaustion, 24th November, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon H. S Hewit, U. S. Vols. 1671. A section of the right femur with a very slight partial fracture, more properly a severe contusion. The specimen a. 11. shows an exfoliation about to separate and necrosed action extending some depth. Corporal J. W. J., "I," 11th New Jersey, 19: Gettysburg, 3d July; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 16th July ; died from pyaemia, 16th August, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. 2207. The upper third of the left femur, contused by a musket ball on its anterior surfaee just below the great trochanter, a. 12. The shaft is superficially carious for several inches Private A. H., " E," 5th Tennessee, (Rebel,) 29: Mission Ridge, 25th November, 1863; admitted hospital, Nash- ville, 16th February; died from suppurative exhaustion, 6th March, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. P. Hachenburg. 3339. The upper two-thirds of the right femur, contused on its anterior surface by an explosive musket ball. Local a. 13. necrosis of the bone occurred, with trivial osseous deposit near by. Profuse suppuration followed the fragments of lead scattered in the thigh, the traces of which are seen in the roughening of the shaft. O. C. H, 24: Petersburg, 24th June; died from exhaustion, in Alexandria, 24th July, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon E. Beiitley, U. S. Vols. 291. The upper third of the right femur. The shaft has been contused on the inner surface about one inch below the a. 14. trochanter minor, where it is necrosed locally. The adjacent bone is honeycombed by suppuration. Contributed by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. 3433. The upper third of the left femur, severely contused and partially fractured on the anterior surface of the base a. 15. of the great trochanter, with an oblique fissure extending several inches down the shaft. The contused bone is about being thrown off, and a beautiful line of necrosis belongs to the fissure in its length. There is also a slight deposit of callus along the border of the fracture. Private W. V., "F," 12th Pennsylvania Cavalry, 20: Winchester, 24th July; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 30th July; died of typhoid fever, 29th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. 2132. The upper fourth of the right femur. The great trochanter is contused and partly fractured on the outer surface, a. 16. Local necrosis has occurred. A slight fringe of callus exists on the lower border of the fracture. Contributed by Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vols. 2704. The upper portion of the left femur, from which the tip of the great trochanter has been carried away by a a. 17. conoidal ball. The joint was not involved. Private J. F., "H," 1st Massachusetts Cavalry, 40: near Spottsylvauia C. H, 27th November; admitted hos- pital, Alexandria, 4th December; died 13th December, 1863.