157 A. li. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 912. A wet preparation, showing the condition of the left elbow two months after excision of the lower extremity of d. 48. the humerus. The olecranon, which appears to have been obliquely fractured from the shaft, has become firmly united on a level with the head of the radius, and the extremities of both bones of the forearm are in good condition. Three inches of the humerus are necrosed with the formation of lines of demarcation. Amputation was performed at the junction of the lower thirds. Contributed by Surgeon D. P. Smith, U. S. Vols. See class VII. A. B. f. 3042. Two and a half inches of the extremity of the left humerus, the head of the radius and the corouoid and olecranon d. 49. processes of the ulna, excised for disorganization of the elbow following gunshot. The tips of the olecranon and outer condyle were fractured by a ball passing transversely, and subsequent ulceration destroyed the articular surfaces. Corporal J. J. J., "K," 48th New York, 26: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th; excised by Surgeon E. B. Bontecou, U S Vols., 22d; amputated in the upper third for sloughing, 27th; died exhausted, 2'Jth June, 18(54. Contributed by the operator. See class VII. A. B. f. 4289. The lower extremity and one inch of the shaft of the humerus in many fragments, excised for complete shattering d. 50. by a conoidal ball. The olecranon also was removed, but is not preserved. Private J. W., "I," loth New York Heavy Artillery: Hatcher's Run, 31st March; excised by Surgeon G. L. Pancoast, U. S. Vols., Washington, 22d April, 1865. Eecovered. Contributed by the operator. 925. One-fourth inch of the articular extremity of the humerus, nearly two inches of the radius and the ulna divided d. 51. just below the coronoid process, excised from the left elbow. The head of the radius is shattered, and portions of the coronoid and inner aspect of the olecranon processes and trochlea are broken off. The specimen is disorganized by caries. Private J. D., 63d Pennsylvania: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Point Lookout, Md., 16th December, 1862; excised by Assistant Surgeon W. H. Gardner, U. S. Army, 12th January, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. Wagner, U. S. Army. 2165. Nearly two inches from the lower extremity of the humerus, the head of the radius and the upper portion of d. 52. the ulna cut half an inch below the coronoid process, excised from the left elbow. The olecranon is fractured by the direct impingement of a missile from the rear, and the articular surfaces are eroded. Private G. T., "E," 15th New Jersey, 21: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 11th; excised by Surgeon G. L. Pancoast, U. S. Vols., 7th June, 1864 ; discharged the service, 22d February, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 194. The lower two inches of the humerus and the extremities of the bones of the forearm, excised from the right d. 53. elbow on a level with and including the head of the radius. A portion of the trochlea is carried away and the articular surface is carious. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. 2483. One and a half inches of the lower extremity of the humerus and half an inch of each of the bones of the fore- d. 54. arm, excised from the right elbow. The olecranon and a small fragment of the trochlea were torn off by a conoidal ball. The articular surfaces are carious. Corporal D. J. D., "E," 2d United States Sharpshooters (Voluuteers): Wilderness, 6th May; admitted hospital, Wash- ington, 28th May; excised by Acting Assistant Surgeon R. Westerling, 3d June; died from secondary hsemorrhage, 22d June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon G. L. Pancoast, U. S. Vols. 2141. Two and a half inches of the lower extremity of the right humerus, excised for complete fracture of the shaft d. 55. just above the condyles. The borders of the fracture are necrosed. Private H. B. R., "E," 14th Ohio: Chickamauga, 20th September; excised by Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vols., Chattanooga, 10th October, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 1365. The olecranon and two and a half inches of the lower extremity of the humerus, excised from the right elbow, d. 56. The outer condyle and adjacent part of the humerus are wanting, and the articular surface is carious. Private W. D., " C," 36th U. S. Colored Troops, 20: Deep Bottom, Va., 2'Jth September; admitted hospital, Portsmouth, 5th October; excised, 3d November, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. H. Frantz, U. S. Army.