165 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 2980. The bones of the right elbow, apparently after amputation in the lowest third of the humerus. The external f. 35. condyle has been carried away and the head of the radius deeply gouged by the passage of a bullet from front to rear. Contributor and history unknown. 864. The bones of the right elbow. The lower extremity of the humerus, except the outer condyle, and the upper f. 36. portion of the radius have been carried away. The joint extremities are carious. Private J. A. L., 1st Pennsylvania Reserves: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 29th September; amputated after erysipelas, 4th October, 1862. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. See class XXIII. A. A. 2815. The bones of the left elbow. The humerus was fractured without comminution just above the line of the f. 37. ligaments, an oblique fracture extending toward the inner condyle. The entire articular surfaces have been destroyed by ulceration from the secondary involvement of the joint. Private G. A. B, "I," 8th Ohio, 25: Cold Harbor, 2d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th; amputated by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols.; died of pyaemia, 11th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. H. Ensign. 2962. The bones of the right elbow, apparently after amputation in the lowest third of the humerus. The trochlea is f. 38. shattered and the shaft for three inches above the articulation. The articular surfaces of the three bones are carious. Near the lines of fracture in the shaft there is some periosteal deposit. Contributor and history unknown. 4166. The lowest third of the right humerus and the greater portions of the bones of the forearm. The radius is f. 39. shattered in its middle and upper thirds, and the humerus is fractured above the outer condyle, involving the joint. There is no history of the position of the arm at the time of the wound, but an examination of the specimen shows it probably to have been as follows: The forearm, flexed at nearly a right angle, was struck on the posterior surface of the radius in the middle third by a bullet coming from the front. Minute fragments of lead show the nature of the missile and its general direction, and the severe longitudinal splintering indicates its probable course. The missile, slightly deflected, has then struck the humerus just above the outer condyle and, passing backward, broken off a large portion of the posterior surface. The outer condyle is broken and two complete fractures enter the joint. The specimen is chiefly interesting as an illustration how one missile may cause two distinct wounds of the same extremity. First Lieutenant R. L. T., "G," 34th Virginia, (Rebel,) 38: wounded, 6th April; admitted hospital, City Point, 14th; amputated by Assistant Surgeon Win. Carroll, U. S. Vols., 19th April; released, 6th June, 1865. Contributed by the operator. See class VIII. A. u. d. 2090. The upper extremities of the bones of the left forearm and a portion of the lowest third of the humerus. Two f. 40. and a half inches of the extremity of the humerus have been excised for fracture. Second Lieutenant A. P. H., "E," 8th New York Heavy Artillery, 20: Ream's Station, Va., 25th August; excised, 26th; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th August; amputated for secondary haemorrhage by Surgeon N. B. Mosely, U. S. Vols., 1st September, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. M. Downs. See class VII. A. A. c. 4059. The lowest third of the left forearm. A ball entered the radial side of left forearm, passed upward and inward, f. 41. and struck the humerus half an inch above the inner condyle. The posterior surface of the extremity of the shaft is torn away, and an oblique fracture extends through the radial portion of the trochlea. Corporal J. F. W., "G," 4th New York Heavy Artillery: South Side R. R., Va., 2d April; admitted hospital, Washington, 5th; amputated, 7th; died, 17th April, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. K. Smith. SYS. The lowest third of the right humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm. The articular surfaces are f. 42. carious, apparently after a partial fracture with Assuring of the coronoid process and the adjoining extremity of the humerus. There are slight layers of new osseous material on the shafts. The specimen is evidently from an amputation. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Joseph Leidy 2873. The lowest third of the left humerus and the upper halves of the bones of the forearm. Sequestra involved f. 43. with slight osseous deposits occupy the shafts of both ulna and radius. The articular surfaces are eroded. Private P. B., "A," 31st Maine, 21: wrist wounded, Spottsylvania, 12th May; forearm amputated, 14th; admitted hospital, Washington, 25th May; arm amputated for erysipelas by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols., 15th July, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Samuel Graham. See classes IX. A. A. e.; XXIII. A. a.