19 A. 13. OF THE UNITED STATKS ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM 3631. A section of frontal bone perforated just externally to the left frontal eminence by a musket ball, causing fracture b. 43. with depression of both tables. The fragments were partially removed by operation The opening in the external table measures one inch in diameter, and is partially surrounded by a narrow ring of porous and diseased bone. The fractured portion of the vitreous table measures one and a half by two inches. Two fragments remain m ••<('» depressed one line. These fragments, with the surrounding bone, are covered by a thin, granular, mortar-like layer of calcareous matter. Private W. M. B., "E," 83d Pennsylvania, 20: Petersburg, 20th June; admitted hospital and fragments removed, Philadelphia, 14th July; gangrene set in and death occurred, 27th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. P. Sargent. See class XXIII. A. B. 34§6. A segment of cranium necrosed at the middle of the superior border of the left parietal bone, following gunshot, b. 44. The diseased surface of the outer table measures two by two and one-half inches, and fragments have been removed, leaving an opening three-fourths of an inch in diameter. Other fragments, almost separated, are in situ, and the rest of the bone is discolored, cribriform, and carious. Internally the diseased surface measures one and a fourth by two and a half inches, two square inches having been removed. Private B. H. C, "G," 48th Illinois: wounded, 21st July; admitted hospital, Marietta, Ga., 13th August; died, 23d August, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon A. Goslin, 48th Illinois. 3507. Six fragments from the orbital arch of the frontal bone, involving two square inches of surface, b. 45. Contributed by Surgeon Robert Win. Pounds. 1013. The vault of the cranium, fractured by a fragment of shell at the anterior third of the sagittal suture. Fragments b. 46. have been removed from either side of the sagittal suture, leaving an opening two inches in length antero-posteriorly and one inch in width, and having the edges beveled at the expense of the inner table. A fragment of the inner table one inch long and one-fourth inch wide remains attached, the free edge being slightly depressed. A fissure of both tables, one and a half inches long, passes forward to the left branch of the coronal suture. The edges of the fracture are necrosed, the dead bone being in process of separation. Private J. McC, " B," 24th Texas Cavalry, (Rebel,) 23: Arkansas Post, 10th January ; admitted hospital, St. Louis, 22d January ; died, 8th February, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. See 1014, I. C. B. b. 6. 2679. A section of cranium with six fragments of bone. There is a fracture of the .interior superior angle of the right b. 47. parietal; the opening measures one and three-fourth inches from right to left and one-half inch antero-posteriorly. All the fragments have been removed. The shape of the opening is very unusual, being nearly that of a rectangle. Private A. E., " D," 20th Maine: Spottsylvania, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 20th; died, 24th May, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon George D. Mursick, U. S. Vols. 2565. A section of cranium, fractured just above the left extremity of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, b. 48. apparently by a musket ball. All the fragments have been removed, leaving an opening measuring our and a half inches horizontally and one inch in width, the posterior part of the edge of which shows marks of having been cut away by the bone-gouge forceps. There is no Assuring. The surrounding portion of the inner table shows marks of diseased action. Private E. S., 11th Vermont, 18: Cold Harbor, 3d June: admitted hospital, Washington, 10th; depressed bone elevated and missile extracted from left lateral sinus, 11th ; died, 18th June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols. 1739. A segment of cranium, showing fracture with depression of the anterior inferior angle of the left parietal and b. 49. corresponding portion of the frontal bones, caused by a couoidal ball, which is attached. The fractured and depressed portion measures one by one and a half inches, from which four fragments have been removed, of which the largest is in situ, depressed half an inch. A fissure extends diagonally across the parietal bone from the anterior inferior to the opposite angle, and another fissure passes downward. The ball, which is deeply grooved from point to base, was found at the base of the brain. Private P. W., " F," 126th New York: Bristoe Station, Va., 14th October; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 15th; died, 19th October, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. P. Bigelow. See ctats XXVII. B. B. d. 3264. The vault of the cranium fractured, apparently by a musket ball, near the anterior superior angle of the right b. 50. parietal bone, from which death occurred on the twentieth day. Fragments have been removed a distance of two inches downward from the sagittal suture by one inch in width. The edges of the opening are cribriform and necrosed. Hernia cerebri appeared five days before death.