II. FACE. _A_» Gunshot Injuries. f a. Fractures, primarily fat d. j b. Fractures without operations, secondarily fatal. Of the Bones of the Face, not including the Lower Jaw. <j c. Results of operations. j d. Results of exfoliations. j e. Fractures and dislocations indirectly produced, I, which aie not in themselves fatal. a. Fractures, Primarily Fatal. 1168. A skull fractured by a musket ball, which entered at the inner side of the left orbit and passed downward, a. 1. carrying away the upper and inner walls of the left antrum, the left iufeiior turbinated bone, the posterior part of the hard palate, the extremity of the right pterygoid process, and a part of the right ramus and body of the inferior maxilla. The right antrum is opened postero-inferiorly, and nearly one inch of the alveolar process of the superior maxilla has been removed. The fracture of the lower jaw involves the anterior border of the ramus and one inch of tin- alveolar border of the body, the external plate being comminuted and removed for a little over one inch in each direction. Unknown (Rebel): killed at Antietam, 17th September, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Vanderkieft, U. S. Vols.- For oilier illustrations, see 1166, I. A. C. a. 13. b. Fractures without Operations, Secondarily Fatal. 1239. The left superior maxilla and part of malar bone fractured by a musket ball, which carried away the upper part b. ' 1. of the body and the orbital process. The teeth remain in situ: the zygomatic process of the malar is broken off at its root. The palate and alveolar processes are uninjured. The patient also suffered a gunshot fracture of the right humerus. Private R. H., "F," 95th Pennsylvania: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th; died, 24th May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See 1238, VI. A. B. b. 10. 3902. The inferior and left superior maxilla, fractured probably by gunshot. The inferior maxilla is fractured at the b. 2. right ramus and angle, the coronoid process being separated and the canal for the inferior dental nerve laid open. The upper portions of the superior maxilla are wanting. The hard palate and alveolar process remain intact. A small fragment of the right superior maxilla, containing one incisor, is attached. Private G. W. B., " G," 42d Virginia, (Rebel,) 25: Gettysburg, 3d July; common carotid ligated, three inches below the bifurcation, 9th; died, 13th July, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See 3969, XVIII. I. A. is. b. 18. 2989. A section of cranium, showing fracture of the facial bones by a musket ball which entered just behind the right b. 3. external angular process of the frontal bone, and, passing forward and inward, destroyed the right eye, carried away the nasal and lachrymal and the orbital processes of the superior maxillary bones, and emerged at the inner angle of the left orbit. The orbital portions of the right malar and superior maxilla are wanting, and the greater part of the turbinated bones are comminuted and removed. The frontal sinuses and sphenoidal cells are freely opened, the right orbital plate of the frontal is fissured, and two fissures pass down into the body of the superior maxilla. The cranial cavity is not opened The edges of the fractured bones show traces of attempt at repair. Death occurred from abscess in the right lobe of the cerebrum. Private E. R., "F,"69th Indiana: Carrion Crow Bayou, Louisiana, 3d November; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 9th; died, 22d November, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Connor, U. S. Army. See class I. A A. c.