CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION I. 8 2744. The vault of tlie cranium, showing the effect of a contusion of the centre of the frontal bone, between the c. 8. prominences, by a conoidal ball. In the external table a portion of bone measuring one-fourth by one inch, a small fragment of which is depressed one-half a line, is surrounded by a slight groove. The inner table is traversed by a fissure one inch in length, one edge of which is slightly depressed. Private W. A., "F," 11th Pennsylvania: Wilderness, 7th May; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 18th; died from abscess of the brain, 25th May, 18G4. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. K. Baldwin. 1951. The vault of the cranium, showing necrosis and fracture of the frontal bone external to the left frontal c. 9. protuberance. The inner table presents a T shaped fissure without depression, and is spongy. A thin plate of bone one inch in diameter is necrosed on the external table, and the osseous tissue adjacent is porous and cribriform. Sergeant D. R., "B," 19th Massachusetts: Brandy Station, Va., 11th October; admitted hospital, Washington, 19th October; haemorrhage from temporal artery, 6th November; gangrene followed; died, 29th November, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. Allen, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A. B. 3039. The vault of the cranium, contused by a musket ball one inch behind the coronal suture, with a fissure c. 10. of the inner table at the sagittal suture. Externally a line of demarcation is forming, surrounding an oval plate of bone one and one-fourth inches long and one-fourth of an inch wide, the long diameter crossing the suture nearly at right angles. A fissure of the inner table one and a half inches in length crosses the suture, and on the left side one edge is slightly depressed. There is superficial necrosis, exfoliation and absorption of the surrounding bone, and the diseased action extends backward, along the groove for the longitudinal sinus, to the occipital. A fissure which occurs in the external table for one inch at the left parietal protuberance, does not appear to have existed before death. Sergeant W. H. B., "K," 47th Pennsylvania, 24: Cedar Creek, Va , 19th October; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 2Gth October; died, 5th November, 18G4. • Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Henry Mullen. ■ ■ ..: 2313. A segment of the frontal bone, showing the outer | ^. ■-X [ ^"'^-^ / C. 11. table {•■•ntilM-d and the inner table I'ractulcd by llic jc-J.*' ,|faV' impingement of a conoidal ball to the left of the _ median line, near the coronal suture. The external table is '■ not fractured, but is porous and softened. A fragment of the I inner table, one and one-fourth inches long and three-fourths of jfe^ -S '". an inch broad, is completely detached. An excellent illustration B of a rare form of injury. Sec figures 5 and G. Private A. L., " C," 78th New York: Wilderness, Gth May; £ admitted hospital, comatose, Washington, 12th : died, 21th .May, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. FIG- Exterior view of frontal Fig. 6. Fracture of internal table _ ,„„_ . , bone contiiM'd on outer table ■•! frontal bone, with contusion See 462/, XXVI. A. 1, 10. :,„.l fractured within. Spec. of external table. Spec. 8313. 2313. 662. The vault of the cranium, showing a contusion of the right parietal bone at the middle of its superior border, c. 12. The outer table is spongy, and a thin plate, one inch in length, is necrosed and partially separated. The internal table is fractured and slightly depressed, and shows traces of an attempt at repair. Death resulted from an abscess of the brain. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. W. Brewer, U. S. Army. 2523. The body of the frontal bone, with a fragment of lead impacted near the centre and to the left of the median c. 13. line. An ovoid plate of the external table, measuring one by two inches, is slightly discolored and surrounded by a groove of demarcation, externally to which the hone is cribriform. A plate of the inner table, measuring one square inch, is detached by three of its sides, and driven inward to the depth of two lines at its free edges. Two fissures, each one and one-fourth inches in length, run backward and outward, and there is a slight deposit of new osseous material on the inner surface. Corporal W. E. S., "F," 84th Pennsylvania, 25: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital from Washington, Chester. Penn., 27th; died from meningitis, 31st May, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon T. H. Bache, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 1922. The vault of the cranium, fractured by a fragment of shell in front of and a little above the left parietal c. 14. protuberance. An ovoid necrosed plate of the external table, measuring one-half by one inch, remains in situ surrounded by a groove of demarcation, the surrounding bone being porous and cribriform. The internal table is fractured without depression, and is carious for two square inches.