502 XXI. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 891. A partially dissected stump of the humerus. The flaps have united, hut the extremity presents extensive b. 14. granulations, as if upon the seat of ulcers. The blood vessels have been injected, showing their extremities closed. Three inches of the end of the bone are encased with a newly formed involucrum, below which the shaft appears necrosed, which disease was the probable cause of the reamputatiou that has been performed. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Goldsborough. 7IN. The soft tissues ot the stump of the right humerus in the lowest third, after death by pyemia. The flaps have b. 15. not united by any vital action. Private G. La F., " E," 26th New York : right elbow fractured by a colloidal ball, biceps of same arm wounded by another bullet and knee joint opened, Fredericksburg, 13th December; arm amputated same day; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th December, 1862 ; inflammation of the knee, "2d January ; died from pyaemia, 14th January, 1863, Contributed by Surgeon H. Bryant, U. S. Vols. 1268. The stump of the right arm, amputated in the middle third and opened to expose both the soft parts and tho b. 16. humerus. The soft tissues were much swollen and baggy, as if following suppuration, and the extremity is imperfectly united, with indifferent granulations. A ligature remains yet attached. The extremity of tho humerus is carious and greatly eroded for several inches by suppuration. Contributor and history unknown. 4095. The soft tissues, from the stump of the right arm after death by pyaemia following amputation in the upper third, b. 17. The flaps are partially united. Private B. C. K., " A," 1st Delaware Cavalry : flesh wound of the arm, wounding the nerves, Edward's Ferry, Va., 15th February ; neuroma extirpated, 3d April; arm amputated for neuralgia by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols., 10th; died from pyaemia, 28th April, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. E. Woodbury. See 4038, XXIV. C. a. a. 3; 4056, XXIV. C. A. a. 5. 4189. A thigh stump, largely healed by granulation, with a yet remaining ulcer, the size of a quarter of a dollar, b. 18. uncicatrized. Contributor and history unknown. 621. A well-rounded stump of the thigh, where the skin appears to have sldughed, but which has nearly cicatrized, b. 19. Four ligatures yet remain attached to the arteries. There is no attainable history. Contributed by Surgeon H Bryant, U. S. Vols. 3514. The extremity of tho left femur aud the soft tissues forming the stump, after amputation through the knee joint b. 20. for fracture of the tibia involving the articulation. The soft parts are imperfect and contracted, showing the traces of ulceration which, rendering the stump impracticable, required reamputation. Private C. H. K., "A," 36th Michigan: wounded and amputated on the field, Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 11th June; reamputated by Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. Army, 15th December, 1864. Contributed by the operator. Sec class XIV. A. A. d. 1740. The extremities of the tibia and fibula, after amputation, with the soft tissues covering the stump. The cicatrix b. 21. is well marked and the adhesions are firm. Contributed by Surgeon Meredith Clymer, U. S. Vols. 260. The stump of the left leg, two months after amputation, by posterior flap, in the upper third. The stump is well b. 22. rounded and the cicatrix firm. J. T., Negro, 13: admitted hospital with frozen legs, Washington, 22d January ; amputated for mortification by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. R. Abbott, 28th January; died from tuberculosis, 28th March, 1866. Contributed by Dr. S. S. Bond. See 4701, XXV. B. B. b. 6. 4198. Three inches of the stump of the left leg, after amputation in the middle third. Both the tibia and fibula protrude b. 23. beyond the skin, covered on the extremities with granulations. The stump remained in this condition three months. Private J. F., "I," 8/th Pennsylvania, 20: Winchester, 10th September, 1864; admitted hospital, with stump as shown, Philadelphia, 12th March ; reamputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon Jas. Tyson, 22d March, 1865. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. 2740. The stump of the left leg, nine months after amputation in the middle third. The cicatrix is firm, but there are b. 24. several fistulous openings iu the skin above from which pus has escaped. The bones of the leg arc carious, the cancellated structures being much broken down. The soft parts were very unhealthy, abundantly discharging pus.