XXVII. 602 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 4112. Au elongated smooth-bore ball, compressed at the base and smoothly flattened upon itself at the apex, which d. 53. fractured a femur at the battle of Pittsburgh Landing. Contributed by Surgeou J. T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. 378. Au elongated bullet, from a smooth-bore musket, with an irregular longitudinal groove down one side and a short d. 54. transverse notch at the apex, which entered half an inch to the right of the sixth dorsal vertebra, passed up beneath the scapula and transversely fractured the right clavicle just within the coraco-clavicular ligament, near which it lodged. Private C. B., "I," 28th New Jersey: Fredericksburg, 12th December, 1862; cut out by Surgeon John Neiil, U. S. Vols., Philadelphia, 22d February, 1863. Recovered, with no serious symptoms at any time. Contributed by the operator. See B'. 4 121. A heavy elongated smooth-bore bullet, somewhat compressed laterally and at the baso, near which it is roughened, d. 55. The marks of the forceps are to bo seen near the apex. Sergeant L. R., " H," 20th Pennsylvania : ball entered middle of left scapula one inch below the spine, Gettysburg, 3d July ; searched for unavailingly; discovered by a Nelaton probe and extracted, 27th September, 18G3. Returned to duty. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. See B". 4475. An elongated ball, obliquely flattened with some expansion near the apex, which entered the side d. 56. of the left foot and buried itself deeply in the sole. The distortion appears to have been the result of rotation around its long axis at the instant of impact. The bullet was extracted by tho use of sponge tents, without incision, and recovery followed. See figure 161. Private A. C, "F," 7th Virginia. Contributor unknown. Fig. 161. Elontrat- 2932. A heavy elongated smooth-bore ball, compressed at the base, so that the wooden plug is enclosed dUtArted!'''''^^ d. 57. and battered, blunted and roughened at the anterior extremity, which entered three-fourths of an 44,J- inch above the trochanter major and lodged beneath the integument and superficial fascia one and a half inches below Poupart's ligament. The thigh was abducted and shortened three-fourths of an inch Private A. E. P., " B," 6th Maine, 25: Rappahannock Station, 7th November: admitted hospital, Washington, 9th; ball extracted, 11th ; died, 25th November, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. 4486. An elongated smooth-bore ball, much roughened on one side. The incrustation on the missile exhibits, under the d. 58. microscope, spongy bone. Sergeant J. D. H., "C," 1st New York: entered two and a half inches to the right of the second lumbar vertebra, Second Bull Run, 30th August; extracted three inches from wound of entrance, by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. E. Fuller, Alexandria, 17th November; discharged, 29th December, 1862. Contributed by the operator. See class III. A. 1!. a. 4431. An elongated smooth-bore ball, with the apex driven back upon itself and roughenod with expansion, and the d. 59. base compressed, after fracture of a lumbar vertebra. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. 234ยง. An elongated ball, slightly disfigured at the apex, with three minute fragments of cancellated bone from the d. 60. knee joint. Contributed by Dr. David Prince, of Jacksonville, Illinois. 4404. An elongated smooth-bore ball, much compressed on the anterior half, with fragments of bone embedded in it and d. 61. a portion of the cup driven backward over a wooden plug that is inserted in the base. Entered calf of the leg and lodged at the base of the metatarsal bone of the fourth toe, Pittsburgh Lauding, 7th April; amputated, 19th April, 1862. Contributed by Snrgeon J. T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. 4426. An elongated smooth-bore ball, beaten back upon itself with some regularity by fracture of the patella, a fragment d. 62. of which is attached. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. 1579. An elongated smooth-bore ball, notched at the apex and compressed at the base, which entered two inches above d. 63. the left nipple, passed through the thorax and was extracted near the inferior angle of the left scapula. Private J. H., "I," 145th Pennsylvania, 35: Gettysburg, 2d July; removed by Surgeon L. Quick, VJ. S. Vols.. Baltimore, 22d July, 1863. Contributed by the operator.