218 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION X. 89. A ligamentous preparation of the right hand and wrist, amputated in the lowest third of the forearm for e. 2. comminuted fracture in the third and fourth metacarpals and laceration of the soft parts. Private J. J., 9th New Hampshire: Antietam, 17th September; amputated, Washington, 2f>th September; furloughed for sixty days, 10th November, 186-2. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeou P. Middleton. 3620. The left carpus and metacarpus. The distal portions of the third and fourth metacarpals were carried away by e. 3. a conoidal ball, and the extremities, as presented in the specimen, are carious. Corporal B. R., "D," 59th Massachusetts, 155: Petersburg, 17th June: amputated in the lowest third of the forearm by Acting Assistant Surgeou W. P. Moon, Philadelphia, 12th August; discharged the service, 14th December, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon Joseph Hopkinson, U. S. Vols. 2491. The lower halves of the bones of the left forearm, the carpus and the metacarpal bones, except the third, e. 4. Corporal G. W. S., "G," 1st Maryland: third metacarpal fractured, Spottsylvauia, 19th May; amputated in the middle third of the forearm by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean, 3d June; discharged the service, '24th September, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 3491. The lower halves of the bones of the right forearm, amputated for gangrene after fracture of the metacarpus, e. 5. The lower extremities are carious, and the ulna is slightly eroded the length of the specimen. Private R. H., "F," 77th Pennsylvania: fourth and fifth metacarpals fractured on picket, 14th July; third finger and metacarpal removed ; admitted hospital, Nashville, 15th July; fourth and fifth metacarpals removed, 5th August: forearm amputated, 10th; died from pyaemia, 14th August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon John E. Link. 1708. The left hand and wrist. The ring and little fingers were carried off by a conoidal ball and amputated at the e. 6. metacarpophalangeal articulation on the field. Private J. B., "C," 2'2d Iowa: Vicksburg, 22d May; admitted hospital, Memphis, 4th June; amputated above the elbow for phlegmonous erysipelas, 29th June, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Surgeon J. G. Keenon, U. S Vols. See classes X. A. A. d.; XXIII. A. A. 850. A ligamentous preparation of the left hand and wrist, with the shaft of the fifth metacarpal bone shattered, e. 7. apparently amputated in the lowest third of the forearm. Contributed by Surgeon John E. Summers, U. S. Army. 495. A ligamentous preparation of the right hand, wrist and the lower extremities of the bones of the forearm. The e. 8. fourth and fifth metacarpals and the first phalanges of the corresponding fingers are shattered. The middle metacarpal is transversely fractured. Amputation was probably performed in the lowest third of the forearm. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Moss, U. S. Vols. f. Other Operations. 2450. A ligamentous preparation of the left hand, wrist and lowest thirds of the bones of the forearm. The fifth f. 1. metacarpal bone has been amputated in its middle and the fourth finger disarticulated at the metacarpal joint. The last three metacarpal bones are necrosed on their dorsal surfaces. Private P. McN., "A," 2d New York Artillery, 36: shell fracture, Petersburg, 16th June; first operation performed in the field, 19th; admitted hospital, Chester, Penna., '28th June; amputated iu the lowest third of the forearm by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. C. Merillat, 11th August, 1864. Contributed by Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Thos. H. Bache, Surgeon, U. S. Vols. See class X. A. A. d.