III. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 58 4086. The third, fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae. A conoidal carbine ball entered the right side, comminuting the base b. 3. of the right lamina of the fourth vertebra, fracturing it longitudinally and separating it from the spinous process, at the same time fracturing the fifth through its pedicle and involving that transverse process. The missile passed directly through the canal with a slight inclination downward aud to the rear, emerging through the left bases of the fourth and fifth lamina?, which are comminuted, and from which fragments were embedded In the muscles of the neck. The bullet in its course avoided the large cervical vessels. From a case where death occurred a few hours after injury, 26th April, 1865. See 4087, HI. A. a. b. 4. 4087. A portion of the spinal cord from the cervical region, transversely perforated from right to left by a carbine bullet b. 4. which fractured the lamina? of the fourth and fifth vertebrae. The cord is much torn and is discolored by blood. From a case where death occurred a few hours after injury, 26th April, 1865. See 4086, III. A. A. b. 3. 1331. The first three lumbar vertebrae. The body of the second is perforated by a conoidal pistol ball, fired at ten b. 5. feet, which passed obliquely backward from left to right through the cord and escaped through the right lamina, lodging in the deep lumbar muscles. Private J. McD., "K," 7th Michigan Cavalry: shot, 1st July, 1863, and died the same day. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. H. Crosby. See 1332, XX. A. A. a. 6. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 2843. The first six dorsal vertebrae and a portion of the left first rib. The rib is partially fractured at its greatest b. 6. curvature by a conoidal ball, which afterward impinged against the third vertebra at the origin of the fourth rib and fractured its left transverse and spinous processes and lamina?. Private W. L. B., "I," 21st Georgia, (Rebel,) 22: wounded and admitted hospital, Washington, 14th July, 1864; died the next day. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. See 2844, XIX. A. B. a 10. See classes IV. A. A. a. ; XXVII. B. B. d. 3862. The last three dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae. Portions of the right transverse process of the twelfth and b. 7. of the spinous process of the eleventh have been carried away by a conoidal ball which injured the cord. Private A. S , " B," 122d Ohio: Monocacy, 9th July; died, Frederick, 15th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. C. Shimer. 2330. The second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and part of the seventh dorsal vertebras with the posterior portions b. 8. artificially removed. A bullet, which passed through the scapula aud fractured the fifth aud sixth ribs, has carried away the right transverse and the spinous processes of the fifth and sixth vertebrae and vertically fissured their bodies. The cord was destroyed at the point of injury. Private N. P., " G," 124th New York, 18: died, Washington, 17th May, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. Ansell. See 239], IV. A. B. b. 41. 2238. The last six dorsal vertebras. A conoidal pistol ball which perforated the liver entered on the right side of the b. 9. body of the eleventh vertebra, passed upward and backward through the body of the tenth, completely shattering it posteriorly and breaking off the right pedicle, passed upward and to the left, emerging through the left lamina of the ninth vertebra, and rested against the corresponding rib. The eighth spinous process also was fractured. Private J. S., "B," 1st District of Columbia Cavalry: wounded, admitted hospital, and died from hiernorrhage from the Ijver, Washington, 19th October, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Carlos Carvallo. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3583. The two superior lumbar vertebrae, with the first completely and the second b. 10. partially fractured vertically by a conoidal ball. The missile appears to have entered from the rear, shattered the spinous process of the first, fractured the arch of the second, passed through the column, and escaped into the abdomen. See figure 35. Corporal J. E., "M," 14th N. Y. Heavy Artillery. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3810. The posterior portion of the left ilium perforated between the posterior superior b. 11. and inferior spinous processes, a part of the sacrum chipped at its posterior superior angle and the fourth lumbar vertebra, with a battered conoidal ball, which has shattered the left transverse process and broken the posterior face of the body lamina is fractured adjacent to the inferior articular processes. Flo. 35. Wound of entrance of a conoidal ball through the first lumbar vertebra. Spec. 3583. , lodged iu the canal. The right