A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 401 3969. A wet preparation of the common carotid artery, ligated three-fourths of an inch below the bifurcation. b. 18. Private G. W. B.. "G,"42d Virginia, (Rebel,) 25: neck and inferior maxilla wounded, Gettysburg, 3d July; secondary haemorrhage from external carotid, Frederick, 9th ; common carotid ligated, 10th; died, 13th July, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. Sec 3902, II. A. a. b. 2. 1636. A wet preparation of the right common carotid, showing two ligations for secondary haemorrhage after gunshot, b. 19. Sergeant A. F., "D," 11th Indiana, 25: ball entered oral orifice and escaped through the right ramus of the inferior maxilla, Vicksburg, 24th June; common carotid tied at the crossing of the omo-hyoid, for secondary haemorrhage, on the Hospital Steamer "Ciescent City," 8th July ; tied half an hour afterward, for recurrence of haemorrhage, at the bifurcation, embracing both branches; haemorrhage recurred, checked by plugging, 9th; died, 10th July, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon J. T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. See 1635, II. A. B. b. 10. 2133. A wet preparation of a portion of the right common carotid, ligated one inch and a half above its origin, b. 20. Private P. O'C, "H," 18th U. S. Infantry: a musket ball entering below the left zygomatic arch escaped below the angle of the inferior maxilla on the left side, Chickamauga, 20th September; secondary haemorrhage from wound of exit and mouth, controlled by compress, 2d October; external carotid tied by Surgeon Cleary, U. S. Vols, 4th; haemorrhage again checked by compress; recurred profusely and common carotid ligated by Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vol*., 23d; died, exhausted, 25th October, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vols. 3252. A wet preparation of the right common carotid, ligated for secondary haemorrhage after gunshot. At the point b. 21. of ligation an abscess extended for three-fourths of an inch above and below. The ligature had come away, leaving a well-formed clot. The vessel that gave rise to the haemorrhage was never detected. In the specimen the internal carotid has been ligated, apparently as an experiment upon the cadaver. Sergeant L. A. P., "B," 8th New York Heavy Artillery, 21: gunshot through the right ear, Ream's Station, Va., 25th August; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th August; secondary haemorrhage restrained by persulphate of iron, 7th Sep- tember; common carotid ligated for return of haemorrhage, 9th; haemorrhage recurred, llth, 12th. 17th, 18th; ligature removed, 19th; died from haemorrhage, 20th September, 1864. The parotid gland was in a suppurating condition around the place of ligation. The bleeding vessel was never detected. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 2018. A wet preparation of the right common carotid, ligated an inch and a half below the bifurcation for secondary b. 22. haemorrhage after gunshot from the internal carotid. Sergeant P. B. M., ''A," 111th Pennsylvania: ball entered mouth, fractured right lower jaw and escaped near the vertebrae, place and date not reported ; lost four quarts of blood from haemorrhage from internal carotid, Tuilahoma, Tenn., 2d December; lint saturated with solution of persulphate of iron held against the bleeding vessel, while the common carotid was ligated by Assistant Surgeon Pierce, 150th New York; haemostatic retained "for a length of time;" doing well until 8th; died from inflammation of the brain, 9th December, 1863. A firm clot extended half an inch below and an inch and three-fourths above the point of ligation. The internal carotid was filled, as far as the entrance to the skull, with a firm fibrinous clot. Ligation of the internal carotid was impracticable from the tumefaction and the severity of the haemorrhage. Contributed by Surgeon Benjamin Woodward, 23d Illinois. 950. A wet preparation of the brachial artery, ligated (in two places) for secondary haemorrhage after gunshot, b. 23. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Warren Webster, U. S. Army. 913. A wet preparation of the radial artery, ligated at its origin at the bifurcation of the brachial, for a wound of the b. 24. elbow, on the field, Fredericksburg, and amputated a few days afterward on account of the severity of the wound. Contributed by Hospital Steward A. J. Schafhirt, U. S. Army. 3645. A wet preparation, showing the radial artery ligated just below and the brachial artery just above the bifurcation, b. 25. Corporal A. G., "D," 46th New York : flesh wound of right forearm from conoidal ball, Petersburg, 18th June ; admitted hospital, anaemic and gangrenous, Philadelphia. 28th June; secondary haemorrhage from the radial,which was ligated, 23d July ; the tissues being disorganized and the bleeding continuing, the second ligature was tied the same day ; died, exhausted, 25th July. 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. B. Corbit. 3464. A wet preparation of the pelvic viscera, showing the left internal and common iliac arteries ligated for secondary b. 26. haemorrhage. The bullet entered the left gluteal region, passed into the pelvis and lodged in tiie right wall. Private J. 11., " H," 98th New York, 25: Weldoii K. R., Va, 20 th August; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th August; haemorrhage, 4th September; left internal iliac tied by Assistant Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. Army, 12th; bleeding not ceasing, left common iliac tied the same day; haemorrhage recurred, and died, 14th September, 1864. Contributed by the operator.