CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 198 IX. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 13, Secondary Conditions. f a. Contusions and partial fractures. b. Complete fractures. c. Caries. d. Excisions. e. Disarticulations. f. Amputations in forearm or arm. g. Other operations. h. Stumps. i. Sequestra. b. Complete Fractures. 1617. A ligamentous preparation of the bones of the right hand, wrist and lower extremity of the forearm. The b. 1. radius and ulna were slightly fractured at their articulation and the entire wrist joint became disorganized. This man also suffered from a severe wound of the leg, and at no time after entering hospital was able to endure an operation. Private J. C. M., "F," 2d New Hampshire, 15: probably Gettysburg, 3d July; admitted hospital. Baltimore, 16th; died, 27th July, 1S63. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. 1337. A ligamentous preparation of the left hand and wrist and the lower portion of the radius. A bullet has passed b. 2. transversely through the carpus, fracturing nearly every bone and involving all of them with caries. This man also suffered a fracture of the femur, from which he died. Private J. McL.,."B," 5th Wisconsin, 21: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th May ; died 16th June, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See class XIII. A. B. b. 3846. The bones connected with the right carpus. The third metacarpal bone is fractured by a conoidal ball and partly b. 3. necrosed; all the carpal bones and the extremities of the metacarpals and bones of the forearm are carious. Private B. L., "H," 116th Ohio: Berryville, Va., 3d September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 6th September; died from pysemia, 2d October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. R. Ould. 2916. The bones of the right forearm. The lower portion of the radius has been carried away for two inches, and the b. 4. extremity is irregular and carious, with one or two points where necrosed bones are beginning to separate. The extremity of the ulna, which appears to have been contused, is carious. The specimen has been sawn longitudinally, as though to examine for osteo-myelitis in the recent state. Private W. J., " K," 93d New York : admitted hospital, near Alexandria, with gunshot of foot and forearm, 28th May; died, 13th July, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon D. P Smith, U. S. Vols. 3838. The bones of the right forearm and parts of the carpus and metacarpus. An oblique fracture, which had been b. 5. partly consolidated in life but became disunited in maceration, extends through the lowest thirds of the radius, to the extremity of which the scaphoid bone is anchylosed. The specimen is broken about the junction of the lower thirds, but that injury appears to have occurred post mortem. The original injury was inflicted by a missile passing directly through the wrist. Private H. B. W., "G," 27th Indiana: Antietam, 17th Sepfeinber; admitted hospital, Frederick, 18th September; died from phthisis, 27th December, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. S. Adams. 377©. The lower extremities of the bones of the right forearm, the carpus aud the metacarpus. The second metacarpal b. 6. bone is missing; the third metacarpal is fractured at its base, with deposits of callus; the trapezium, trapezoid, magnum aud scaphoid are shattered, and the extremity of the radius is fractured, with a fragment adherent by callus. All the broken surfaces are carious. Received without history from Nashville 513. The lower portions of the bones of the left forearm, the carpus and metacarpus. The ulna is partially fractured in b. 7. the lowest third, and a round ball is embedded in the radius at the carpal articulation as was found after death. Private J. S. A: probably Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th; died from tetanus, 23d December, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon James D. Robisou, U. S. Vols.