95 OF THE ITNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. B. 2083. The head of the left scapula and the upper portion of the humerus. A round bullet passed through the head b. 19. of the humerus, which in the specimen is necrosed and much absorbed. The glenoid cavity is eroded and enlarged. The greater tuberosity is more spongy than is natural, and numerous small foramina perforate every portion above the epiphyseal line. Private H. C S., "C," 116th Illinois: wounded, 2'2d May; admitted hospital, Memphis, 27th May; died from pyaemia, 3d July, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Watson, U. S. Vols. 4342. The upper fourth of the right humerus, with the head transversely perforated by a ball three weeks after injury, b. 20. The head is shattered and necrosed, and a longitudinal fracture extends down the anterior and posterior surfaces of the shaft. Private T. R., " K," 4th New York Heavy Artillery, 20: Southside R. R., Va., 2d April; admitted hospital, Washington, 5th; gangrene appeared, 18th; died from secondary haemorrhage, 22d April, 1865. Contriouted by Surgeon R. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols. 2887. The upper portions of the left scapula and humerus. A bullet entered beneath the spine of the scapula, fractured b. 21. the posterior portion of the glenoid cavity, and passed out through the head of the bone, which is destroyed. The tissues in the track of the ball are carious. There is no attempt at repair. Private L. P., " G," 6th Wisconsin: admitted hospital, Washington, 30th June; died, 21st July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 3869. The right scapula and upper portion of the humerus, three weeks after injury. A conoidal ball carried away b. 22. part of the head of the humerus and fractured the head of the scapula A little periosteal inflammation has occurred, and the head of the humerus is necrosed, but there is no attempt at repair. Private J. L. McN , " C," 21st Georgia (Rebel): Gettysburg, 1st July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 6th ; died from pyaemia, 25th July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W L. Adams. 3919. The right scapula and upper portion of the humerus, six weeks after injury. A battered conoidal ball, which b. 23. traversed the body of the scapula about its middle, having entered the inner border aud passed through the glenoid cavity, is lodged within the humerus at the junction of the head and neck. The articular surfaces are destroyed by ulceration. The bullet was not found during life. Quartermaster Sergeant M. H. C, 72d New York: Monocacy, and admitted hospital, Frederick, 9th July; died, 2.4th August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. J. Dunotte. See class XXVI. B. B. d. 715. The left scapula, with the glenoid cavity and the extremity of the coracoid process removed. The anterior and b. 24. superior portions are honeycombed with necrosis, and delicate wafer-like layers of exfoliations exist on the dorsum and ventir. Private A. P. H., "A," 50th Georgia, (Rebel,) 21: wounded on the frontal bone and also near the head of the humerus, South Mountain, 14th September; died exhausted, Frederick, 25th November, 1862. There were no cerebral symptoms. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon George L. Porter, U. S. Army. See class I. A. A. c. 3917. The left scapula and upper portion of the humerus. The inner and posterior portion of the head of the humerus b. 25. and the entire glenoid cavity, neck of the scapula and coracoid process have been carried away. There is no attempt at repair. Private G. McC, "K," 14th Virginia Cavalry, (Rebel,) 20: wounded, Monocacy, and admitted hospital, Frederick, 9th July; died, 10th August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. E. Mitchell. 2541. The upper third of the right humerus six weeks after injury. The auterior portion of the head is carried away b. 26. by a musket ball which was found iu the right pleural cavity. The head is thoroughly carious. Private W. A., "A," 1st Delaware, 30: Farmville, Va., 7th April; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 12th May ; died with erysipelas, 25th May, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. See class XXIII. A A. 3940. The upper half of the right humerus, sixteen days after injury. The lower half of the head and the inner halt b. 27. of three inches of the shaft were carried away by a bullet which lodged in the right lung. The remainder of the head is carious. There is no attempt at repair. Private J. V. McG., " B," 14th New Jersey: Monocacy, 9th July; died, Frederick, 25th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. R. Gray. See class XIX. A. it. a