2;;5 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 758> The right os innominatum and head of the femur. The joint was opened and the ischium at the lower border of a. 7. the acetabulum contused by a musket ball which escaped through the gluteus maximus. The articular surfaces are eroded, but the implication of the joint was not suspected during life. The external iliac was tied for secondary hemorrhage occurring in the track of the wound. Private G., 5th Ohio: Antietam, 17th September; died from exhaustion and haemorrhage, Frederick, 28th October, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. H. Bill, U. S. Army. See class XVIII. II. A. 1!. b. 211. The upper fourth of the right femur. A bullet, striking the anterior aspect of the neck at its base, has slightly a. 8. contused the bone and grooved out its own path, which involves the capsule. There is very little change of the bone, and death probably resulted from some coincident. Contributor and history unknown. 1659. The bones of the left hip joint. A conoidal ball from the left contused the neck of the femur within the capsule, a. 9. chipped the lower border of the acetabulum and the ischium, passed though the obturator foramen and between the rectum and urethra, without injuring either, and escaped behind the ramus of the right ischium. The articular surfaces are entirely eroded. Private M. P., "K," 6th Maine: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hospital, New York Harbor, 9th Juno ; died, 11th June, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Roberts Bartholow, U. S. Army. 1661. The upper third of the right femur, with around ball, entering from behind, impacted in the trochanter major, a. 10. partially fracturing the neck within the capsule. Private L. R., "F," 48th New York, 18: Fort Wagner, S. C, 18th July; died, New York Harbor, 3d August, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Roberts Bartholow, U. S. Army. See classes XIII. A. b. a.; XXVII. B. B d. 3931. The upper portion of the right femur, with a conoidal ball, which has longitudinally fissured the shaft, lodged in a. 11. the neck from above. Sergeant D. Y., "H," 106th New York: Monocacy Junction, Md., 9th July; died of pyaemia, Frederick, 20th July, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B d. 565. The upper portion of the left femur, grooved between the trochanters on the a. 12. posterior surface by the passage of a conoidal ball from below upward and inward. The track of the ball is carious, and the space between the trochanters is bridged over by a displaced fragment of bone attached in its new position by slight osseous deposits. The great trochanter has been split oft" and fissured, and is reattached by the process of nature. The articular surface is slightly eroded, but it is difficult to decide whether that condition occurred during life. The missile which is mounted, was found resting against the capsular ligament. See figure 64. Captain J. M. L., "I," 20th Indiana: wounded through the left lumbar muscles, and while lying on the field received the wound seen in the specimen, before Richmond, 27th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 29th June; there was no interference with the joint motion, and the missile could not be detected; died from exhaustion, 29th August, 1H62. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. M. Notson, U. S. Army. See 4628, XXVI. A. 2, 57. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3530. The upper fifth of the right femur, sawn in two longitudinally, showing a penetrating fracture of the neck by a a. 13. Colt's pistol ball, which has lodged, exposing its surface just within the capsule. The fracture was not detected until too late for interference. The joint was destroyed by suppuration, and the head partly absorbed.' Sergeant E. S., "A," 1st New Jersey Cavalry, 26: near Warrenton, Va., 15th January; admitted hospital, Washington, 1st February; died from exhaustion, 18th March, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, II. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3806. The upper third of the right femur, fractured in the anterior surface of the great trochanter, with intracapsular a. 14. involvement. At the time of death the periosteum was dissected off the femur to its middle third, and the head was eroded and spongy. Private J. C, "I," 10th New Jersey, 19: Charlestown, Va., 20th August; admitted hospital, Frederick, Nth September, 1864; died from exhaustion, 12th January, 1665. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon F. A. Gove.