20 I. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL .SECTION Private J. H., "I," 56th Pennsylvania: Petersburg, 22d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 1st July; died, 11th July, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon G. L. Pancoast, U. S. Vols. 3729. A segment of cranium, fractured by a conoidal ball at the superior border of the occipital bone just to the left b. 51. of the median line. Fragments of bone have been removed from an elliptical opening measuring one and a half inches from above downward by one inch in width. The edges of the opening are necrosed and beveled at the expense of the inner table, and there are traces of attempt at repair. The ball lodged in the brain. This patient also suffered gunshot injury of the elbow joint. Sergeant J. L., "I," 153d New York: admitted hospital, Baltimore, 26th October; died, 20th November, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles. See 3725, I. C. 15. b. 20; 3718, VII. A. li. b. 29. 2683. A segment of frontal bone, perforated between the frontal eminences and extensively fissured by a musket ball, b. 52. The opening is elliptical, measuring three-fourths by one and a half inches, the long diameter running transversely, and from the extremities of the oval two fissures extend outward, that on the left side being three inches and that on the right two inches in length. A third fissure passes downward to tbe edge of the left orbit, opening both walls of the frontal sinus. The fractured surface of the inner table is the larger, inclining towards the edge of the opening. Captain unknown (Rebel): Spottsylvauia, Pith May; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th; spicula; removed, 19th; died, 20th May, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon G. A. Mursick, U. S. Vols. 2665. A segment of cranium, fractured above the left meatus auditorius by a musket ball. Fragments of bone have b. 53. been removed from the squamous portion of the left temporal for a distance of two and one-fourth inches from before backward, and one inch in width. The left parietal is fissured from the squamous suture to the posterior superior angle; a second fissure branches downward to the lambdoid suture. The borders of the fracture are necrosed, and the surrounding bone shows traces of disease. The ball was found just beneath the scalp, and, with the fragments of bone, was removed by operation. Private D. L. T., " G," 12th Georgia (Rebel): admitted hospital, Washington, 8th June; died, 20th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 1267. A skull, fractured just behind the centre of the right temporal ridge of the frontal bone by a round ball, which is b. 54. attached. Five fragments of bone, which were removed by operation, leaving an opening one and a half inches long by one inch in width, are attached. The edges of the opening are necrosed and in process of separation. A fissure passes downward through the great ala of the sphenoid for two inches. The ball had entered the lateral ventricle of the brain. Corporal J. D. T., "F," 27th Indiana: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted field hospital, 13th; died, 21st May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon A. J. Gilson, 5th Connecticut. See class XXVII. B. u. d. 3566. The vault of the cranium, fractured at the middle of the right branch of the coronal suture by a musket ball, b. 55. which entered the brain, causing death on the forty-first day. The fractured portion of the outer table measures two inches in length by one in width, that of the inuer table beiug somewhat less. Two small fragments of the inner and two of the outer table remain; the rest have been removed. The surrounding bone is cribriform and slightly carious, and the edges of the opening rounded off, showing an attempt at repair. The ball was removed on the field, and the fragments of bone on the third day after the injury. Hernia cerebri appeared before death. Private A. H., "F," 40th New York, 23: Spottsylvania, 10th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 12th May; died, 20th June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Wm. Thomson, U. S. Army. 3290. 56. Four necrosed fragments of bone from the cranium, including nearly four square inches of surface. Contributor and history unknown. 3151. Three fragments from the right parietal and the squamous portion of the right b. 57. temporal bones, necrosed by gangrene following gunshot, and removed by oper- ation. They form a very irregularly shaped plate of bone, measuring four inches in its longest diameter and including about four square inches of surface, and are made up chiefly of the diploe and external table. See figure 20. Private W. F., "C," 98th Pennsylvania: before Washington, 12th July; admitted hospital, 13th; hospital gangrene appeared, 21st; haemorrhage from temporal artery, 23d July; specimen removed, 6th September; reported well, 3d December, 1864 Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 27. Sec class XXIII. A. b. of cranial bones xerosis after gangrene.