OF TITE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 523 Private B. F., " H," 2d Minnesota Cavalry, 26 : exposed, 11th—17th December, to a snow storm between Forts Wadsworth and Ridgely, in which both hands and forearms were frozen to the middle thirds, both feet and legs to the upper thirds, both knees over and around the patellae and both alae and the tip of the nose; admitted Post Hospital, Fort Ridgely, 24th December, 1865; gangrenous parts of the nose came away, 6th January; refused amputation until the line of demarcation reached the bones; both forearms amputated in the middle thirds, without cutting any blood vessels, by dissecting up the soft tissues and sawing through the hones, by Acting Assistant Surgeon Alfred Muller, 13th ; leg amputated in the upper thirds in like manner, J6th January; this procelure was necessary from the extreme weakness of the patient; sequestrum d came away, 17th April ; a, 22d April ; sequestra b and c separated the middle of the same month. The knees' healed rapidly, with anchylosis of the patellae. The conical stumps of the four limbs were covered with solid cicatrices and the patient eniirely recovered. Discharged by muster-out of his company, 28th April ; relieved from treatment, 19th June, 1866. Contributed by the operator. See classes VIII. B. li. g.; XIV. B. B. k. ; XV. B. 1$. g. 847. The second phalanx of the ring finger, disarticulated for frost-bite. The bone had been previously amputated D. 7. through the shaft near its head. P. S., (colored,) 20: amputated about six weeks after injury by Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Robert Reyburn, Surgeon, U. S. Vols., Washington, 9th January, 1807. Eloped one week afterward, doing well. Contributed by the operator. See class X. B. rs. e. 869. Parts of the second phalanx of the second toe and of the metacarpal bone of the great toe, removed for frost bite. D. 8. The extremities are various after gangrene. The amputations were made through the continuity of the bones. S. C, (colored,) 45: admitted hospital, Washington, 8th January; amputated by Brevet Lieutenant Colonel R Reyburn, Surgeon, U S. Vols., 28th January, 1867. Contributed by the operator. See class XVII. B. B. e. For other il uslrations sec 2777, XXI. B. B. b. 3; 2417, XXV. B. B. b. 5. E. Reptiles and Insects. 3743. A wet preparation of the great toe, disarticulated at the metatarsal articulation for ulceration of its extremity E. 1. following the burrowing of the chigoe (jigger). From the case of a Negro at Freedman's Village, a returned colonist from tbe Island of Avache, West Indies. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. N. Calkins. 3742. The extremity of the right foot, amputated at the. metatarso-phalangeal articulation for an extensive ulcer occupying E. 2. the second toe, caused by the chigoe (jigger). The diseased surfaces represent a triangle, nearly three inches in length on each of its sides and half an inch in depth. The disease was in progress sixteen months before amputation. The case of a Negro girl at the Freedman's Village, near Washington, a returned colonist from the Island of Avache, West Indies. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. N. Calkins. 3699. A wet preparation of the left foot and the lowest third of the leg, alter amputation for extensive chigoe ulcer on E. 3. the outer malleolus. The lesion is about four iuches in diameter and has existed sixteen months. From a Negro, aged twenty years, a returned colonist from the Island of Avache, West Indies. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. N. Calkins. 3741. A wet preparation of the left foot and lowest third of the leg, after amputation for ulceration following the E. 4. burrowing of chigoe. The ulcer is situated over the tendo-Achillis, is about three inches in diameter by three-fourths of an inch in depth, and is sixteeu months old. From a Negro, aged twenty-one, a returned colonist from the Island of Avache, West Indies. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T N. Calkins. F. Others. 870. The lower half of the. left leg, amputated for an extensive, aud long-existing indolent ulcer. The ulcer rests on the F. 1. inner an 1 lower portion of the leg, and embraces a surface of £wo iuches iu its smallest aud ten inches in its greatest diameter and was the seat of vicarious menstruation. It was very painful, and contraction of the posterior muscles of the leg had induced a condition approximating talipes equinus.