A. B. 27 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. Colonel T. R., 1st North Carolina Cavalry, (Rebel,) 37: Bristoe Station, Va., 14th October; admitted lios])ital, Alexandria, 15th; died suddenly, 18th October, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon F. H. Stillwell. 1344. The vault of the cranium, fractured at the posterior half of the left squamous suture by a musket ball, d. 9. The line of section of the specimen passes through the fractured bone, only the upper part of which is shown. The fracture is about two and a half inches long, with slight radiating fissures. Private H. S., "F," 86th New York, 25: died in hospital, Washington, 28th June, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon G. S. Palmer, U. S. Vols. 324. A fegment of cranium, showing a shell fracture with depression of the right parietal bone in front of the d. 10. protuberance. The depressed portion of the external table measures three-fourths by two inches, and is driven in to a depth of three lines. The inner table is a little more extensively fractured. The fragments are necrosed. Private B., 12th Massachusetts: Second Bull Run, 28th August; died, Georgetown, 2d November, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. Army. 2574. A segment of cranium fractured by a conoidal ball, which entered just above the nasal spine of the frontal d. 11. bone, carried away both frontal sinuses and a portion of the left orbital plate, destroyed that eye, and escaped near the angle of the left ramus of the lower jaw. A fragment, three-fourths by one inch, of the posterior wall of the right sinus is depressed half an inch at its free edge. Private L. W., 10th Vermont, 33: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital, Washington, 16th June, 1864; died the same day. Contributed by Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. Army. 139. A segment of cranium penetrated at the squamous 'portion of the left temporal by a musket ball, portions d. 12. of which are embedded in the depressed fragments of bone. The line of section of the specimen passes through the fracture, only a part of which is shown. Three fragments are, in situ, two of them depressed about one-fourth inch. Contributed by Surgeon O. A. Judson, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII B. B. d. 1824. A segment of cranium, showing a fracture just above the mastoid portion of the left temporal bone caused d. 13. by a musket ball. There is an elliptical opening measuring three-fourths by one. inch, below which are three small fragments still in situ. The edges of the fracture are somewhat rounded, exhibiting evidence of attempts at repair. An abscess was found in the left ventricle of the brain communicating witli the external injury. Sergeant P. W. N., "C," 1st Ohio Cavalry, 24: Culpeper, Va., 13th September; admitted hospital, Washington, 15th; died, 20th September, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. 3257. A section of cranium fractured by a conoidal ball, which entered the nose carrying away a part of the d. 14. vomer, the lachrymal and orbital plate of the ethmoid bone on the left side, the root of the left great ala and pterygoid process of the sphenoid, and is impacted in the left temporal bone at the base of the petrous pyramid, which is split off and forced backward one-fourth inch. There is fissuriug of the auditory canal ami mastoid process, and of both tables of the occipital for two inches backward and upward. A fissure crosses the bodj of the sphenoid, the cells of which are freely opened, and a second fissure traverses the left orbital plate and part of the temporal ridge of the frontal. The left antrum is opened above and behind, and the turbinate bun s mi the left side are almost entirely removed. Private W. W., "M," 1st Pennsylvania Cavalry: admitted hospital, Washington, 20th September; died, 26th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. See class II. A. A. b. 216. A section of frontal bone perforated just above the inner angle of the right orbit by a round ball, which d. 15. is attached lying in the right frontal sinus. The fractured portiou externally measures one inch in diameter, and three depressed fragments of the anterior wall of the sinus remain attached to the edge of the opening. Two square inches of the inner table have been carried away, including a portion of the orbital plate and the posterior wall of the sinus A fissure extends downward through the entire thickness of the supra-orbital arch, and a second fissure traverses the plate of bone between the frontal sinuses. Private T. J. C, 28th New York: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 26th September; died, from abscess of the brain, 4th October, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon Jos. Hopkinson, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. n. d.