OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 159 A. B. Private J. T. H., "K," 47th Pennsylvania: Poeotaligo, S. C, 22d October; admitted hospital, Beaufort, S. C, 24th; excised by Surgeon E. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols., 26th October; transferred North, 28th December, 1862; "had good motion of the elbow," July, 1863 Contributed by the operator. 4249. The tip of the olecranon and three inches of the lower extremity of the humerus, successfully excised from the d. 65. left elbow. The shaft was shattered above the condyles, and a complete fracture extends through the trochlea. Corporal E. B. N., " I," Scott's 900 (New York Cavalry). Contributed by Dr. N. D. Benedict. 25ยง3. The head and one inch of the shaft of the radius, six fragments representing two inches of the extremity of the d. 66. humerus, and the upper part of the ulna, excised. The specimen has slight periosteal deposits of callu^ upon it and is more or less carious. Private A. E. D., "F," 102d Pennsylvania: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 11th May; excised by Surgeon G. L. Pancoast, U. S. Vols., 17th June ; died, 21st August, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 257ยง. Three inches of the lower extremity of the right humerus, excised. The bullet passed through the olecranon d. 67. and near the inner condyle. A nearly longitudinal fracture extends up the specimen, which is superficially necrosed. Private M. S , "C," 69th Pennsylvania: Gettysburg, 3d July; excised by Assistant Surgeon C. E. Greenleaf, U. S. Army, Philadelphia, 21st July, 1864. Eecovered. Contributed by the operator. 749. The olecranon and coronoid processes and two and a half inches of the shaft of the left ulna, and the head and d. 68. one inch of the shaft of the radius, excised. The shaft of the ulna is completely comminuted, and that of the radius has several partial fractures. Private J. H., "K," 19th Indiana, 21 : Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 18th; excised by Acting AsMstant Surgeon J. H. Bartholf, 28th September, 1862. Eecovered with two inches shortening. Contributed by the operator. 341. The greater part of the head and the outer half of two inches of the shaft of the right radius, and the entire d. 69. articular surface and two and a half inches of the shaft of the ulna. The ulna, particularly in the articulation, is badly shattered, and the inner half of the radial specimen has been carried away by a conoidal ball which entered three inches below the olecranon and passed out near the inner condyle. Private B. E. B., "F," 80th Indiana: Perryville, Ky , 8th October; admitted hospital, New Albany, Ind., 24th October, 1862; excised by Acdng Assistant Surgeon J Sloan. Eecovered. Contributed by Surgeon W. Varian, U. S. Vols. 2593. The head of the radius, the olecranon and coronoid processes, and one inch of the shaft of the ulna and two d. 70. inches of the extremity of the humerus, excised from the left elbow ten weeks after injury. The inner condyle and olecranon were shattered, and caries has changed all the structures, which are now partially absorbed. Private E. B., "A," 116th Pennsylvania: Chancellorsville, 3d May, 1863; excised by Acting Assistant Surgeon McLean, Philadelphia. Eecovered. Contributed by the operator. 1995. Three and a half inches of the lower extremity of the right humerus, excised after the passage of a conoidal ball d. 71. between the condyles. The extremity is carious, but the outer condyle, which was split off, has imperfectly united to the shaft. The specimen is sawn through one and a half inches below the point of final excision. Sergeant M. S., "E," 16th Maine, 25: Gettysburg, 1st July; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 4th September; excised by Acting Assistant Surgeon F. Hinkle, 29th October, 1863. Eecovered. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. 202. Two and a half inches of the lower extremity of the humerus aud the ulna divided one inch below the coronoid d. 72. process, apparently excised from the right elbow. The olecranon is badly fractured, a part of the trochlea is broken, and the articular surface is eroded. Contributed by Surgeon J. C. Dorr, U. S. Vols. 3713. The coronoid and olecranon processes and two and a half inches of the shaft of the left ulna, excised after d. 73. gangrene attacked a flesh wound of the forearm. The specimen appears to have been slightly contused about midway on the posterior surface. There has been a slight osseous deposit on the posterior portion of the bone. The tip of the olecranon is carious. Corporal W. E. O, "H," 4th Ehode Island, 23: Poplar Springs, Va., 30th September ; specimen excised, Beverly, N. J., 13th December, 1864; discharged the service, 7th June, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. Wagner, U. S. Army.