CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 162 VII. 780. The lower portion of the left humerus with the greater portions of the bones of the forearm The outer condyle f. 9. is fractured and the upper extremity of the ulna shattered. Private A. D. B., "A," 1st Rifles, Pennsylvania Reserves, 20: South Mountain, 14th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 18th; attacked with erysipelas, 22d September; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr., 17th October; discharged the service, 27th November, 1862. Contributed by the operator. See class XXIII. A. A. "3"? 5. The bones of the left elbow, after amputation in the lowest third of the humerus. The head of the radius was f. 10. carried away by a bullet which entered from behind and passed out near the middle of the forearm, comminuting the ulna for two inches. The outer condyle is fractured and the articular surface of the humerus is carious. Several of the fragments of the ulna are united to each other, but not to the shaft. Private C. G., "D," 16th New York, 21 : South Mountain, 14th September; admitted hospital, Brockettsville, Md., 1st October; amputated, 14th November; transferred to Frederick, 18th November, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon Henry James, 3d Vermont. 3418. The bones of the left elbow, amputated in the lowest third of the humerus after fracture of the external condyle f. 11. and head of the radius. The head of the radius is nearly entirely destroyed. An oblique fracture extends through the tuberosity, above which the bone is almost entirely necrosed. The fracture, however, is partially united. Sergeant D. A. B , " C," 6th New York Cavalry, 24: Front Royal, Va., 9th August; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 21st August; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon John Neff, 9th October; discharged the service, 7th December, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. 3082. The bones of the right elbow. The outer condyle has been chipped and the head of the radius partly carried f. 12. away, and a series of longitudinal fractures extend two and a half inches down the shaft. Amputation was probably performed. Received from the Army of the Potomac. 3651. The bones of the right elbow, after an excision of the upper three inches of the ulna. A partially detached f. 13. sequestrum exists in the upper extremity of the ulna, around which is a very slight involucrum. Some spongy bone has been thrown out at the radial tuberosity. The articular surface of the radius is eroded and the extremity of the humerus is carious. Private J. K., "K," 170th New York, 32: Flussell's Mills, Va., 16th August; excised on the field; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 20th August; amputated in the lowest third for secondary haemorrhage by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. A. Smith, 9th September: died from pyaemia, 24th September, 1864 Contributed by the operator. See class VII. A. a. c. 2356. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation in the lowest third of the humerus. A conoidal ball shattered f. 14. the anterior face of the upper third of the ulna and fractured the tuberele of tho radius. A fissure of two inches exists on the outer border of the radius. Private N. B. H., "D," 3d Vermont: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon Casey, 21st May, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. L. Bliss. 2092. The bones of tho right elbow, after amputation in the lowest third of the humerus. A bullet passed antero- f. 15. posteriorly between the bones of the forearm, opening the joint and gouging the ulna below the coroitoid process and transversely fracturing the neck of the radius without comminution. Private F. J. T., "A," 95th Ohio, 27: admitted hospital, Memphis, 27th May; amputated for secondary haemorrhage by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. M. Powers, 31st May; died, 27th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. D. Garrison. 2722. The bones of the left elbow. The outer condyle on the posterior border appears to have been partially fractured, f. 16. and consecutive ulceration has destroyed the articulation. Amputation was performed in the lowest third. Private A. W., " K," 8th U. S. Colored Troops, 37: Olustee, Fla., 20th February; admitted hospital, Beaufort, S. C, 22d February; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon Charles T. Reber, 6th March; died from typhoid pneumonia, 16th March, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon E. D. Buckman, U. S. Vols. 4264. The bones of the left elbow, amputated in the lowest third of the humerus after fracture. A conoidal pistol ball f. 17. entered the forearm two and a half inches below the joint, passed upward, obliquely fractured the outer border, shattered the coronoid process and lodged between the head of the radius and fractured border of the ulna. The head of the radius is carious and partly absorbed, and the articular surface of the humerus is necrosed. The bullet is mounted in the specimen as found on amputation.