OF THE UNITED STATES AEMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. B. 411* See 852, XXII. A. li. a. 6. 767. The lower thirds of the bones of the right leg, one month aftor injury. The tibia is comminuted with a fracture b. 17. into the joint. The fractured portions are necrosed and around them some callus has been thrown out on the shaft, but there has been no attempt at union, nor does the j« int show more than the destruction of cartilage. The subject died from a depressed fracture of the cranium. Unknown, 63d New York : Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick,22d September; died, IGthOctober, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. See 765, I. A. B. b. 61. ISO©. The bones of the right leg, with the lower extremities shattered into the ankle. There has been a feeble attempt b. 18. at repair in the shafts. The articulation is destroyed by suppuration. Received after Gettysburg. 1 SOI. The bones of the left leg, shattered into the ankle. Necrosed portions are about separating, and there is a feeble b. 19. effort at reparation. Received after Gettysburg. 626. A ligamentous preparation of the bones of the left foot, shattered through the ankle and tarsus, with the internal b. 20. malleolus fractured. The missile appears to have eutered the outer inferior border. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Moss, U. S. Vols. 3501. The bones of the left ankle, veiy carious, with the articulation entirely destroyed by suppuration after fracture b. 21. of the external malleolus. Contributor and history unknown. 1822. The astragalus and calcis and portions of the leg bones. The specimen appears to be a post mortem one, and b. 22. represents an unsuccessful attempt to save the joint after fracture of the external malleolus. A portion of the extremity of the fibula, perfectly dead, remains, and the articulation has been destroyed by suppuration without reparative effort. Received after Gettysburg. 1799. The bones of the left ankle, fearfully shattered by a conoidal ball which split the lower extremity of the tibia, b. 23. broke up the astragalus and traversed the caleaneum, in the posterior portion of which it is lodged, reversed. An apparent attempt to save the joint displays the effect of suppuration. Received after Gettysburg. See class XXVII. B. i$ d. 1318. The bones of the left foot, one month after injury, with the tarsus carious. The ankle was shattered by a con jidal b. 24. ball. The subject was predisposed to tuberculosis. Private E. B., "E," 3d Wisconsin, 33: Beverly Ford, 9th June; admitted hospital, Washington, 10th June; died, 8th July, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon G. S. Palmer, U. S. Vols. 4580. The greater portion of the bones of the right leg, with the fibula transversely fractured in the lowest fourth and b. 25. the anterior portion of the tibia shattered into the ankle. There was also a flesh wound of each leg and of the thorax. Private Wm. H. P., "C," 1st Massachusetts Heavy Artillery, 39: Spottsylvania, 19th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 22d; died from pyaemia, 30th May, 1864. • Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. Army. 2546. The bones of the left tarsus and metatarsus, honeycombed with caries, after fracture involving the ankle, b. 26. Contributor and history unknown. 677. A ligamentous preparation of the right ankle and foot, showing shell wounds. The external malleolus and b. 27. adjoining portion of the astragalus are fractured, and the scaphoid, external and middle cuneiform and sec jud and third metatarsals are shattered. Private W. A. R., "I," 123d Pennsylvania. Contributed by Surgeon Thomas Antisell, U. S. Vols. 766. A ligamentous preparation of the left ankle and adjacent bones, fractured by perforation by a conoidal ball, six b. 28. weeks after injury. The articulation is destroyed by suppuration. No operation was performed on account of the subject's weakness from an abdominal wound received at the same time. Private L. S. P., "E," 3d North Carolina (Rebel): Antietam, 17th September; died, Frederick, 25th October, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr.