A. B. 241 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 4227. The bones of the right hip joint, with the head of the femur, shattered by a conoidal ball which entered over the b. 32. pubes and is embedded in the neck. There was no shortening of the limb and no important vessels had been wounded. There was a slight fracture of the pubic border of the acetabulum, and the specimen shows that some inflammatory action has occurred in the region. Private P. M., "A," 28th Massachusetts: Petersburg, 25th March; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th March; died from exhaustion, 12th June, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. Richings. See class XXVII. B. b. d. 1253. The upper portion of the right femur, shattered by a conoidal ball at the junction of the head and neck. Numerous b. 33. spiGulse of bone were driven into the muscular tissue. Sergeant S. W. N., "E," 15th New Jersey, 22: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th; died exhausted, 20ih May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 908. The upper third of the left femur. The greater portion of the neck has been carried away and only the superior b. 34. third of the head remains. Attempted separation of necrosed bone and traces of callus show a prolonged struggle for life, notwithstanding the severity of the injury. Contributor and history unknown. 3632. The bones of the left hip joint, fractured by a conoidal ball which shattered the neck at the great trochanter, b. 35. slightly broke the margin of the acetabulum and glanced up and lodged in the pelvis A portion of the head is absorbed, and a slight deposit of new bone exists on the shaft. The surface of the acetabulum is eroded. The gravity of the injury was not appreciated during life. Sergeant C. G. P., "G," 13th Pennsylvania Cavalry, 34: near Malvern Hill, Va., 16th August; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 20th August; died from pyaemia, 9th October, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon I. I. Hayes, U. S. Vols. '782. The upper two-thirds of the left femur, showing a complete fracture of the neck, with little comminution. The b. 36. ball, which was never discovered, appears to have impinged against the head on its under surface at its junction with the neck. The shaft bordering the fracture is superficially necrosed. The character of the injury was not recognized until the day before death. Private T. M., "F," 63d New York, 19: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 27th September; died from exhaustion, 5th November, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Alfred North. 1967. The upper third of the right femur. The neck was completely comminuted, the fracture extending into the head, b. 37. which is generally eroded. Fragments, partly necrosed, are attached to the shaft near the tuberosities by slight osseous new formations. G. K. S.: Gettysburg. Contributor and history unknown. 2398. The bones of the left hip joint. A conoidal ball entered on a line with the coccyx, two inches above the anus, b. 38. notched the ischium to its own diameter at the base of the thyroid foramen, shattered the neck of the femur and escaped over the great trochanter. Excepting a slight fissure on its articular surface, the head of the femur is uninjured. Private W. J. L., "I," 57th Pennsylvania, 22: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 28th; died exhausted, 30th May, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. 3636. The bones of the left hip joint. A conoidal ball entered over the great trochanter. The head of the femur was b. 39. . somewhat chipped, and in the specimen the ball is mounted thereon as though the place of lodgement (which is not clear from the history). Much of the head of the femur is absorbed. The acetabulum is carious, and on the pelvic surface ulceration is perceptible, as though local disease had occurred from the force of the contusion. Private R. M. H., "D," 1st New Jersey Cavalry: Spottsylvania, 12th May; died exhausted, Philadelphia, 21st June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon George Kerr. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 1 602. The upper third of the left femur, with the head completely shattered (by a round ball which lodged) and partially b. 40. absorbed. A very tiivial.deposit of new bone occurs on the neck. The articular tissues were gangrenous at death. Would have been a fair case for primary excision could the diagnosis have been made. Private J. M., "I," 61st New York: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, hth May; died exhausted, 3d August, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C A. McCall, U. S. Army. 31