CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 96 V. ยง11. The upper half of the left humerus, one and a half months after injury. The head and surgical nock are b. 28. shattered, and an oblique fracture with little comminution extends two inches down the shaft. The head is carious and the line of fracture is bordered by necrosed bone, but there is no attempt at repair excepting by a minute deposit of callus at one point. Corporal C. P. C, "L," 9th New York State Militia, 31 : Autietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 25th September; not sufficiently strong to endure amputation; died from pneumonia, 2d November, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Keen, jr. 112ยง. The left scapula and upper portion of the humerus. A conoidal ball has carried away the inner face of the b. 29. head of the humerus and a considerable portion of the glenoid fossa, and has fractured the scapula with much comminution transversely below the spine. There is no attempt at repair. Private J. M. F., "B," 12th New Hampshire: Chancellorsville, 3d May; died from pyaemia, 17th May, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. A. Harvey. 11 ยง8. The right scapula, struck near its acromial end by a bullet which emerged through its spine, shattering a large b. 30. portion of the bone. The joint was opened and the glenoid cavity slightly fractured. This soldier also received a wound in the left ankle, for which primary amputation was performed. There was no attempt at repair. Corporal C. D. S., "H," 100th New York: Folly Island, S. C, 10th April; admitted hospital, Beaufort, S. C, lGth ; died from pyaemia, 30th April, 1663. Contributed by Surgeon F. S. Dibble, 6th Connecticut. See class XVI. A. A. e. 2401. The left scapula and upper portion of the shaft of the humerus, four mouths after injury. A conoidal ball b. 31. pierced the head of the bone, shattering it, fractured the glenoid cavity, passed down the anterior border of the scapula, breaking it, and escaped at the inferior angle. The whole track of the bullet is perfectly necrosed. The scapula on both surfaces shows traces of feeble deposits of new bone. Private E. L.,"E,"95th New York: Hatcher's Run, Va , 6th February; died from acute dysentery, Baltimore, 16th June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. 947. The upper half of the right humerus shattered in the surgical neck and head, both of which are completely b. 32. carious and spongy and partially absorbed. A tririal amount of callus was deposited at the upper extremity of the lower fragment, but none above the joint. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon E. J. Marsh, U. S. Army. 3581. The right scapula fractured in the supra-spinous fossa; and the upper portion of the humerus, the head of which b. 33. is entirely absorbed. The joint does not appear to have been implicated in the original injury, but became destroyed by the resulting inflammation. There is a border of necrosed bone at the seat of fracture and a slight osseous deposit near by, but no attempt at repair in the joint. Private G. F. W , " K," 7th Wisconsin: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 12th May ; died from sup- puration and chronic diarrhoea, 28th July, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 3110. The right scapula and upper third of the humerus, six weeks after injury. The posterior two-thirds of the spine b. 34. of the scapula have been shattered, and the greater part of the remainder is necrosed. The acromion and coracoid processes, themselves uninjured, are fractured at their iunction with the body. The glenoid cavity, at first destroyed by the bullet, is thoroughly carious. The shattered head of the humerus is eroded by ulceration. Private L. B., "I," 61st Alabama, (Rebel,) 31: before Washington, 12th July; died, 23d August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 234. The left clavicle, scapula and upper half of the humerus. The clavicle is transversely fractured near the middle, b. 35. the sternal half of the bone being much necrosed and exhibiting a certain amount of ensheathing callus on the internal surface. The head of the humerus is eroded, carious and partly absorbed. The coracoid and acromial processes and upper part of the glenoid fossa are badly fractured, the place of the coracoid being occupied by a small irregular spike of new bone directed inward. The articular surface is carious and absorbed The humerus was accidentally fractured through the surgical neck after death. Sergeant T. B., 5th U. S. Cavalry: Gaines' Mill, Va., 27th June; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 30th July; died, 29th September, 1862,. Contributed by Surgeon A. Bournon7ille, U. S Vols.