OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. B. 167 2836. The lowest third of the left humerus and greater part of the bones of the forearm. The ulna was fractured at the f. 54. base of the olecranon, from which fragments were removed on the field. The radius and coronoid process are firmly anchylosed with the humerus. The shaft of the ulna is not joined to the head. New and spongy bone has been thrown out around the joint. Private C. A., "B," 1st Pennsylvania Rifles: Wilderness, 7th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 26th May ; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon John Morris, 11th July ; died, 28th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. S. Stebbins. 295©. The lowest third of the left humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm. The joint has been opened, f. 55. its articular surfaces are carious and partly absorbed, and the various prominences have received slight irregular deposits of spongy callus. Corporal J. M. L., "A," 8th Maryland, 29: Spottsylvauia, 8th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 25th May; amputated, 6th August; died, 6th August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Minis. 2063. The upper halves of the bones of the right forearm, and the humerus amputated at the junction of the lower thirds, f. 56. two months after fracture of the joint by a conoidal ball. A conoidal ball carried away the olecranon. A considerable splinter of the posterior portion of the ulna is attached by callus out of position. The upper portion of the ulna and head of the radius are necrosed, as well as the articular surface of the humerus, of which a portion has been absorbed. The shaft of each bone has a slight coating of new osseous matter. Private S. B. C, "C," 37th North Carolina (Rebel): Gettysburg, 3d July: amputated, Chester, Penna.. 8th September, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. Martin. 2556. The lowest third of the right humerus, amputated after a longitudinal fracture of the inner border splitting off that f. 57. condyle. Private J. W., "D," 2d New York Cavalry, 33: Cedar Creek,Va., 19th October; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 17th November; amputated for secondary haemorrhage by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. P. Moon, 21st November; died exhausted, 3d December, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon L. C. Cummins 1175. The upper two-thirds of the bones of the left forearm and the lowest third of the humerus. A sequestrum, f. 58. surrounded by a fair involucrum, occupies the entire radius, and the ulna and humerus are anchylosed. Private W. J. N., "E," 1st Michigan: wrist fractured by a conoidal ball, Second Bull Run, 30th August; amputated, Washington, 3d September, 1862; amputated in the lowest third of the humerus, 3d April, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Surgeon Thomas R. Crosby, U. S. Vols. See 1176, XXI. A. B. b. 4. See class IX. A. a. e. 2327. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation in the middle third. The inner condyle was carried away, the f. 59. trochlea fractured, and a nearly perpendicular fracture extended two inches to the border of the shaft. Corporal J. J. D., "H," 26th Michigan: Wilderness, 12th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 16th; amputated, 17th May ; deserted from a Philadelphia hospital, 23d November, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. Ansell. 2975. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation in the middle third of the humerus. A vertical fracture extending f. 60. two inches upward has carried away the outer half of the articular portion of the humerus. Corporal T. A., "I," 32d Maine: Petersburg. 30th July; admitted hospital, Washington, 3d August; amputated by Surgeon A. T. Sheldon, U. S. Vols., 7th August, 1864 ; discharged the service, 6th March, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 223. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation in the middle of the humerus for a fracture of the joint, as if by f. 61. a bullet passing transversely obliquely along the anterior surface when partially flexed. The head of the radius and outer condyle are fractured, the olecranon is chipped and the inner border of the coronoid process broken off, the middle portion of the trochlea destroyed and the entire inner condyle and ulnar portion of the trochlea split off. The fractured surfaces are carious, but are bordered with periosteal effusions. On the inner condyle is appreciable new-bone formation. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Livezey. 361. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation in the middle third of the humerus for fracture just above the f. 62. condyles. Two oblique fissures extend down into the articulation. Private W. L., 1st Delaware: Antietam, 17th September; amputated, Frederick, 3llth September; died of irritative fever, 16th October, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon H. S. Hewit, U. S. Vols.