VIII. 182 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 4186. The upper halves of the bones of the left forearm. The radius is transversely fractured at its neck ; a longitudinal b. 2. fracture extends one and a half inches down the shaft, from which, on the inner surface, one-third of the circum- ference for the same distance is wanting. Corporal A. L., "E," 124th New York, 20: Hatcher's Run, 1st April; admitted hospital, Washington, 5th; died from exhaustion after secondary haemorrhage, 16th April, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. F. Norris, U. S. Army. 3889. The bones of the right forearm, with the ulna comminuted in the lowest third. The lower extremity is necrosed, b. 3. this condition extending superficially up two-thirds of the shaft. Private S. McC, "F," 1st U. S. Cavalry: Funkstown, 8th July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 13th July; died from pyaemia, 10th August, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. S. Adams. 1876. The left ulna, obliquely fractured in the lowest third with some comminution. The extremities of the bone are b. 4. necrosed. Private N. H., "I," 24th Michigan, 23: admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 9th July; died from pleuro-pneumonia, 5th August, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Leidy. 879. A dried ligamentous preparation of the bones of the right forearm. The ulna is nearly transversely fractured in b. 5. the middle third. The lower extremity is necrosed one-fourth of an inch and the upper for about one inch. Bordering these portions are slight new ossific deposits. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Leidy. 3116. The upper halves of the bones of the left forearm, fractured by a shell, with comminution at the junction of the b. 6. middle thirds, and primarily amputated, apparently in the humerus. The point of interest in this specimen, which has been mounted upside down for convenience of exhibition, is an old consolidated gunshot fracture of the radius in the middle third. First Lieutenant J. S., "C," 88th New York: Wilderness, 7th May, 1664; amputated by Surgeon Peter Emmet Hubon, 28th Massachusetts ; died in twenty-four hours. Contributed by the operator. See class VIII. A. A. d. 1341. The right radius, nineteen days after fracture in the middle third. A few necrosed spiculae are entangled in the b. 7. callus that was thrown- out. Death resulted from pleurisy following a flesh wound over the ninth rib caused by the same bullet. Private M. P., "A," 33d New York, 30: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th; died, 22d May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 3420. The upper halves of the bones of the left forearm. There is an ununited fracture in the upper third of the ulna, b. 8. whose extremities are necrosed. Private M. K., "D," 65th New York, 36: admitted hospital, with fractured neck of the femur, Baltimore, 24th October ; died from pyaemia, 1st November, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles. See 3419, XII. A. B. b. 30. 2. The bones of the right forearm. The radius is fractured, with loss of substance for two inches in the middle b. 9. third. The fractured extremities are necrosed, and a slight ossific deposit exists in the lower border. The upper extremity is longitudinally fractured for two inches. Private W., company and regiment unknown: Williamsburg, 5th May, 1862; died, Washington. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. Army. 1835. The bones of the right forearm. The ulna is fractured, with the loss of several inches in the middle third, and the b. 10. extremities are necrosed, above which a slight fringe of callus exists. The face of the radius adjoining the fracture is necrosed and partly absorbed. Received after Gettysburg. 3839. The right ulna, showing an old compound fracture in the middle third. A fair amount of callus was thrown b. 11. out, but no consolidation has occurred. Ligamentous union, which existed, has been accidentally destroyed in the preparation. There is no history of this fracture. Private G. McL., "B," 23d Illinois, 41: admitted hospital for chronic inflammation of the knee, Frederick, 2d November; died from pneumonia, 15th December, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Ould.