XI. 226 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 39©©. The anterior half of the right iuuominatum, comminuted at the anterior superior process of the ilium, where a b. 11. wedge-shaped fracture, two inches in depth by the same base, with loss of substance, has been caused by a conoidal ball. The fractured edges are torn and carious. On both surfaces is a layer of periosteal deposit nearly separated. The bone immediately adjacent to the fracture is necrosed and partly detached. Private F. I. I., "E," 31st Georgia, (Rebel,) 18: Monocacy, 9th July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 10th July; died from peritonitis, 10th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. E. Mitchell. 1060. The right ischium, badly fractured between the acetabulum and the tuberosity by a bullet which passed through b. 12. the penis and the right testicle and escaped on the right side near the sacrum. The shattered bone is carious, and is much diminished by the absorption and loss of fragments. Private J. L. V. O., "K," 14th Connecticut, 37: Fredericksburg, 13th Deeember; admitted hospital, Washington, 26th December, 1862; died from pleurisy, 10th April, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 985. The posterior superior half of the left ilium, perforated by a conoidal ball just above the sacral articulation, b. 13. The external fracture embraces nearly two square inches of surface, and the internal fracture nearly four square inches. One square inch of bone is missing, and the fractured portion of the inner table is bent inward. The border of the fracture is necrosed. Private R. H. R., "H," 24th New Jersey: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 17th; ball extracted, 20th; died, 28th December, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. A. Harvey. 3531. The left ilium, obliquely perforated by a conoidal ball through the posterior superior spinous process, b. 14. Private B. M. P., "I," 121st Ohio, 21 : Wilderness, 6th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 26th; died from pyaemia, 28th May, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 2542. The sacrum, transversely perforated from left to right at the second intervertebral notch by a ball which, battered, b. 15. is mounted at the place of lodgement. The fracture to the sacrum is extensive. There was paralysis of the bladder and rectum, but none of the lower extremities. Private P. K., "G," 91st New York: Southside R. R., 1st April; died, Washington, 8th April, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Wm. F. Norris, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3826. The sacrum and left os innominatum. A conoidal ball entered just above the anterior superior spinous process, b. 16. passed downward, backward and inward, struck the superior border of the great ischiatic notch and fractured the ilium, and passed out through the left side of the fourth and fifth bones of the sacrum. Nearly two square inches of the inner surface of the ilium, just anterior to the sacral articulation, is wanting, a longitudinal fracture extends three inches toward the crest of the ilium, and a fissure two inches toward the anterior superior spine. Private A. W. P., "F," 3d Vermont, 21: Boonsboro', Md., 10th July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 12th; died from pyaemia, 22d July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. S. Adams. 1171. A ligamentous preparation of the bones of the pelvis and a conoidal ball. The missile entered from the front, b. 17. striking the descending ramus of the right pubes just below the symphysis, contusing the corresponding bone on the left side, passing over the membranous portion of the urethra, striking against and knocking off a fragment of the spine of the ischium, impinging on the sacrum at the insertion of the coccygeus and finally lodged in the glutsens maximus Private D. D., "D," 14th Connecticut, 22: Hatcher's Run, 25th March; admitted hospital, Washington, 30th March; died from pysemia, 25th April, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon Benjamin Wilson, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. li. d. 1215. The sacrum and adjoining portion of the right ilium. A conoidal ball from the rear perforated the third sacral b. 18. vertebra at its junction with the ilium, making a circular opening rather more than an inch in diameter, whose edges internally attain a twofold circumference. The ball, which is attached, was found after death embedded in clothing just within the pelvis, none of the viscera of which were injured. The case is remarkable for the absence of peritonitis and paralysis. Private P. C, "E,"73d Pennsylvania: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 7th; died exhausted, 22d May, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. Sec classes XXVII. B. B. d.; XXVII. B'. B'.