A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 61 3333. Four dorsal vertebras, with a carbine ball, which fractured the fifth rib on the right side, embedded in the body a. 12. of the corresponding vertebra, through which it has nearly passed. Local caries exists around the places of fracture on the opposite sides of the bone. Private O. A. N., " B," 13th New York Cavalry: Aldie, Va., 6th July; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 13th; died, exhausted, 23d July, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon E. Bentley, U. S. Vols. 712■ A wet preparation of the second, third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, with the body of the third transversely a. 13. perforated from right to left by a musket ball. The cord not having been affected, no paralysis existed. A large abscess, in the midst of which was the bullet, occurred on the left side of the column. Corporal T. J. K., "K," 7th South Carolina, (Rebel): Antietam, 17th September, 1862; died from colliquative diarrhoea, Frederick, date not reported. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon James Phillips, U. S. Army. 3349* The first three lumbar vertebrse. In the left side of the body of the second a round ball, which entered between a. 14. the ninth and tenth ribs and perforated the lower lobe of the left lung, is embedded. The canal appears to have been slightly encroached upon by a bony fragment, but no symptoms of paralysis are recorded. The bono adjoining the bullet is necrosed. Private T. B. H., "F," 7th Maryland: Petersburg, 18th July; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 5th July; died, 9th July, 1864. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3171. A wet. preparation of portions of the third, fourth and fifth dorsal vertebrae, with parts of the corresponding ribs a. 15. on the left side. A bullet has lodged between the laminae of the fourth and fifth vertebras, its apex opening the canal but not interfering with ihe theca. Private L. N., "G," 5th Wisconsin: died, in Baltimore, 30th September, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon T. Sim, U. S. Vols. See class XX VII. B. B. d. 1600. The third, fourth, and fifth dorsal vertebrae, with portions of the corresponding ribs. A conoidal carbine ball is a. 16. lodged between the ribs against the pedicle and spinous process ou the left side, which are fractured. The cord was found disorganized at that point. Private A. L, Richardson's Cavalry, (Rebel,) 18: Warrenton Junction, Va.; admitted hospital, paraplegic, Alexandria, 3d May; died, 27th May, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon Robert Reyburn, U. S. Vols. See classes IV. A. B. a ; XXVII, B. B. d. 3976. A wet preparation of the bodies and transverse processes of the last cervical and first two dorsal vertebras, with a. 17. the corresponding portion of the cord. A conoidal ball entered the anterior part of the neck and escaped between the seventh cervical and first dorsal spinous processes, causing effusion of blood within the canal but no direct injury to the cord. Second Lieutenant G. C, "K," 20th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 24: Monocacy Junction, 9th July; died, Frederick, 12th August, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. 1630. The second, third and fourth dorsal vertebras. A conoidal ball which first passed through Iwo inches of white a. 18. oak, parallel with the fibre of the wood, entered the body below the left scapula and passed upward through the transverse process of the fourth, lodging in the canal opposite the third vertebra. Private F. N. H., "G," 101st Illinois, 24: wounded on Steam Ram "Switzerland," off Simmsport, La., 3d June; died, ou hospital-steamer "Woodford," 7th June, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon James Roberts, Mississippi Marine Brigade. See class XXII. B. B. d. 901. The third, fourth and fifth cervical vertebras, with the left transverse processes fractured by a conoidal ball which a. 19. is mounted with the specimen. The bullet eutered near the inferior angle of the scapula, passed upward, fracturing its neck, shattered the clavicle, inflicted the injury shown in the specimen, and finally lodged behind the symphysis of the inferior maxilla. Sergeant J. H. R., "H," 11th Pennsylvania Reserves: Fredericksburg, 13th December, 1862; died, Washington, January, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon O. A. Judson, U. S. Vols. See 640, IV. A. B. b. 3; 641, V. A. B. b. 6. See class XXVII. B. b. d.