205 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. Contributed by the operator. 157. The bones of the left hand, wrist and lower half of the forearm. The second metacarpal and carpal bones are f. 44. much disorganized from gunshot perforation. Callus has been deposited on the second and third metacarpals, but the carpus is carious. There has been a partial excision of the extremity of the radius, and amputation was finally performed in the middle third of the forearm. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army. See class IX. A. B. d. 236ยง. The left carpus and metacarpus and lower portions of the bones of the forearm. The third and fourth metacarpals f. 45. are fractured, and the styloid process of the ulna and inner portions of the carpus are missing. All the articular surfaces are carious. Private H. M. C, "K," 17th Vermont, 18: Wilderness, 5th May; amputated in the lowest third of the forearm by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army, Baltimore, 21st May; died of pyaemia, 15th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles. 3693. The lowest thirds of the bones of the left forearm and parts of the carpus and metacarpus. The trapezius, f. 46. trapezoid, parts of the scaphoid and magnum, the base of the first metacarpus and a portion of the second have been excised. The remaining bones are anchylosed, the hand being prone. J. M., late Private, "K,"' 33d Wisconsin: Yorkney Station, Miss., 22d December, 1862; some of the carpal bones excised by Dr. Maxwell, Keokuk, Iowa, January; and others by Surgeon M. K. Taylor, U. S. Vols., 2d April; discharged the service, 13th August, 18G3; amputated in the lowest third by Surgeon H. Culbertson, U. S Vols., 21st June, 1864. Eecovered. Contributed by the operator. See class IX. A. B. d. 1709. A ligamentous preparation of the left wrist, showing anchylosis following inflammation from erysipelas after f. 47. primary amputation of the index finger for gunshot. Private J. A. H., " B," 22d Kentucky: Vicksburg, 22d May ; admitted hospital, Memphis, 4th June ; amputated in the lowest third, 10th June, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. P. Sweetland. See class X. A. a. d. 24'7'7. A portion of the left carpus and metacarpus. f. 48. Private J. H. E., "F," 28th Massachusetts: the ball entered at the back of the hand and escaped at the hypo. thenar eminence, Wilderness, 6th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 21st; portions of ring and little fingers excised ; forearm amputated in middle third for gangrene, by Surgeon G. L. Pancoast, U. S. Vols., 31st May, 18(54 ; discharged the service', 14th April, 1865. Contributed by the operator. Sec classes X. A. B. c.; XXIII. A. B. 243. The bones of the left hand, part of the carpus and the lowest thirds of the bones of the forearm. A conoidal f. 49. ball entered two inches above the wrist and passed out between the bases of the fourth and fifth metacarpals. The inner border of the radius is fractured and a fragment retained by the periosteum and callus; the scaphoid, trapezium, trapezoid and semilunar are anchylosed together and to the first three metacarpals, and the unciform and last two metacarpals are anchylosed. Private A. McM., "A," 7th Michigan: accidentally, 8th September: amputated in the middle of the forearm for secondary haemorrhage by Assistant Surgeon A. M. Clark, U. S. Vols., Georgetown, 23d October; discharged, 3d December, 1862. Contributed by the operator. 995. The left carpus and metacarpus and lower halves of the bones of the forearm. A conoidal ball fractured the f. 50. middle metacarpal bone, the trapezoid, magnum and the styloid region of the radius. In the specimen the metacarpal is partially united with some displacement and the carpus is carious. Fragments of the radius are attached by periosteum, but the spongy portion of the bone is carious. Private J. S., 127th Pennsylvania, 36: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Point Lookout, 16th December, 1862 ; amputated in the upper third of the forearm by Acting Assistant Surgeon John Stearns, 16th January, 1863. Recovered. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. Wagner, U. S. Army. 133. The bones of the left hand and wrist and the lower halves of the bones of the forearm. The magnum and f. 51. extremity of the radius are fractured. The latter bone is necrosed, and amputation in the middle of the forearm was finally performed. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon F. H. Brown. 35. The left hand and wrist, after amputation in the forearm. The third and fourth metacarpal bones are obliquely f. 52. fractured at their carpal articulation, and the magnum and unciform are shattered on their palmar surfaces.by the lodgment of a spherical leaden bullet. Private J. L., "F," 6th U. S. Infantry: Gaines' Mill, 27th June; admitted hospital, Georgetown, 7th July; amputated in the forearm by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. W. Hays, 28th July, 1862. Recovered.