A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 652. The upper halves of the hones of the right leg, with an oblique and somewhat comminuted fracture of the tibia, b. 33. There is no pathological change noticeable, except traces of periostitis. Private J. B. H., "B," 142d Pennsylvania: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 23d December, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon Thomas Antisell, U. S. Vols. 866. The lower halves of the bones of the left leg, with the fibula perforated just above the malleolus by a conoidal b. 34. ball that lodged in the tibia. There is some displacement of the fractured fibula, and its fragments are necrosed, as are the broken borders of the tibia. An oblique partial fracture extends upward several inches on the shaft of the tibia, and periosteal disturbance is observable the entire extent of the specimen in the fibula. Private C. F., "B," 14th U. S. Infantry, 22: Gettysburg, 2d July ; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 13th ; died of tetanus, 18th July, 1863. The posterior tibial nerve was lacerated. Amputation was not advisable at any time after the appearance of the disease. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. C. Yarrow. 1200. The bones of the left leg, with a fracture in the upper third of the tibia partially united posteriorly. A portion b. 35. of the effused callus has been absorbed, the inner surface of the fracture is carious and, unless amputation in the thigh was performed, the man died from exhaustion. Contributor and history unknown. 1*12. The bones of the left leg, with an ununited fracture in the upper third of the tibia. There has been slight perios- b. 36. teal inflammation, but no effective deposit of callus. The chief beauty of the specimen is a well-defined and narrow line of necrosis bordering the fracture its entire course. Contributor and history unknown. 2342. The two upper thirds of the bones of the right leg. The tibia is fractured, with longitudinal splintering in the b. 37. upper third. Below the point of injury are traces of old and decided periostitis, and the fibula, which is not fractured, is well marked in the same manner throughout the specimeu [syphilitic periostitis?]. There is no known history. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon B. Stone, U. S. Vols. See class XV. C. 3945. The bones of the right leg, one month after injury. The tibia is shattered and the fibula transversely fractured b. 38. (as if consecutively) in the upper third. The tibia is slightly necrosed. Corporal S., " D," 9th New York Heavy Artillery : Monocacy, Oth July ; died, Frederick, 11th August, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. C. Shimer. 1545. The greater portions of the bones of the left leg. The tibia is obliquely comminuted and the fibula transversely b. 39. fractured in their upper thirds. Death occurred from pyaemia, leaving little pathological change in the specimen. Contributed by Surgeon R. Thomain, 20th New York. 1894. The bones of the left leg, fractured with comminution in the upper thirds. The parts about the fracture are b. 40. necrosed, beyond which there is some deposit of callus. Received after Gettysburg. 708. The upper portions of the left tibia and fibula. The tibia is comminuted by a conoidal ball in the upper third b. 41. and the lower fragment is necrosed. The fibula has been sawn near the junction of the upper third and in the specimen is not fractured. Private B B., "C,"7th New Jersey: Fredericksburg, 14th December; admitted hospital much prostrated, Washington, 25th December, 1802; died, 12th January, 1863. Contributed by Medical Cadet Kingston. 2060. The bones of the left leg, two months after injury. The tibia was perforated and the fibula fractured in the b. 42. upper third. There has been a slight deposit of callus and great suppuration. Private L. B. McG., " H," 28th North Carolina (Rebel): Gettysburg, 3d July; died from secondary hcemorrhage, Chester, Penna., 5th September, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Moore. 3392. The bones of the right leg, twenty-four days after injury. The tibia was perforated by a rifle ball in the upper b. 43. third and fractured nearly its entire extent. Private J. R., "B," 79th Illinois: Resaca, Ga., 10th May; admitted hospital, Chattanooga, 2d July; died, 4th July, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Byrne, U. S. Army. 1ยง04. Both bones of the right leg, fractured with comminution in the upper thirds. Necrosed fragments are about to b. 44. separate, and there is a slight effusion of callus. Received after Gettysburg.