B. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. and the external carotid at or below its division into internal maxillary and temporal. The internal jugular is probably, and both venae innominate are possibly distended. The cast was made by Prof. Christopher Johnston, M. D., of Baltimore from whose account the foregoing history has been compiled. Private G. MacP., 38th Massachusetts: discharged the service, Baltimore, December, 1862. This man, obviously fifty years of age, was accepted as a recruit by a Massachusetts Surgeon. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. F. Murdoch. See class XVIII. II. B. B. a. b. Upper Extremities. 2957. A cast of the left elbow, showing an old ununited fracture of the olecranon process. The depression caused by its b. 1. retraction by the triceps is very perceptible. Contributor and history unknown. 3215. A cast of the right arm, showing the result of an old fracture and exostosis. Fracture appears to have occurred b. 2. in the upper third and the lower fragment to have been drawn inward. A considerable and irregular prominence below the axilla points out the new-bone formation. The history is too obscure to be satisfactory. Private P. T., 15th New York Cavalry. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. d. Lower Extremities. 3241. A cast of the left knee, showing a long-existing dislocation outward of the patella. Flexion and extension were d. 1. nearly as efficient as in the sound limb, and the only inconvenience was that which followed long-continued exertion. Private C. C. H., "D," 2d Eastern Shore, Maryland, 25: luxated by a fall twenty-one years previously. Cast made in Baltimore. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Henry McElderry. 1394. A cast of the right knee partially flexed, showing a long-existing dislocation outward of the patella. "During d. 2. extension the position of the patella was almost natural, but during flexion the dislocation was complete." The ouly inconvenience was lameness from long-continued motion, as in marching. Private J. M., "A," 192d Ohio, 19: caused by a fall in childhood. Cast made in Baltimore. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles. f a. Excisions. B! b. Amputations. . Operations. "j c. Illustrating plastic operations. ^ d. Other operations. b. Amputations. 1597. A plaster cast of the shoulder, showing results of amputation of the left arm just below the shoulder joint for b. 1. fracture, with laceration of the soft parts, caused by a fall from the cars. Covering for the stump has been obtained from the outer and posterior surface of the arm, making a rectangular flap which is applied to the axillu and side of the chest. A stellate cicatrix with some corrugation occupies the centre of the anterior border of the flap corresponding to the anterior border of the axilla. The shoulder is full and prominent. Private J. D., "D," 145th New York, 40: fell from the cars between Washington and Philadelphia, 28th October; amputated by Surgeon R. S. Kenderdine, U. S. Vols., Philadelphia, 29th October, 1863. Cast made in New York, spring of 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Geo. F. Shrady. 20ยง. A cast of the stump of the right leg, amputated, by the circular method, in the upper third for injury by machinery b. 2. at the age of eleven. The muscles of the stump appear to have grown equally with the rest of the thigh. J. R., mechanic, employed by Government: entered service with an artificial leg, in the calf of which he was shot. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. H. Armsby, U. S. Vols. 450. A cast of the stump of the right leg, after amputation in the lowest third, by the method of periosteum flaps, for b. 3. disease in a tuberculous subject following a sprain of the ankle. The stump is very excellently rounded. Private C. L., "B," 116th U. S. Colored Troops, 22: sprained ankle, July; date of amputation not given; transferred to Fort McHenry, perfectly well, 20th February, 1866. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon G. M. McGill, U. S. Army.