XVIII. II. 460 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 3679. A wet preparation of the left axillary artery, lighted in its third poitiou for secondary haemorrhage. The specimen, b. 11. which is from a pysemic suhject, shows the artery patalous, having been cut through by the ligature, which came away after death. Corporal P. Y., "F," 116th Ohio, 37 : received a flesh wound in the middle and outer portion of the left arm from a conoidal ball, Winchester, 19th September; admitted hospital, wound sloughing,Philadelphia, 27th September; haemorrhages, controlled by solution of alum and persulphate of iron, 4th, 5th, 6th October; artery ligated for severe haemorrhage by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. L. Wells, 7th; died from pyaemia, 22d October, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon Lewis Taylor, U. S. Army. 3973. A wet preparation of the trachea and larynx, the upper lobe of the left lung, the arch of the aorta, the right b. 12. and left carotids and some of the muscular tissue on the left side of the neck. The specimen shows the left common carotid to have been ligated for a traumatic aneurism. Death resulted from the artery opening into an abscess in the upper portion of the lung, twenty-three days after the ligature came away and thirty-seven after the operation. Wooden directors are passed into the two unnatural cavities through the openings in the vessel. Private E. M. K., "I," 6th Pennsylvania Cavalry, 26: a buckshot entered the left side of the neck just above the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, a little below the thyroid notch, and passed out to the left of and below the occipital protuberance, causing severe haemorrhage and great swelling. Harper's Ferry, Va., 1st January; admitted hospital with aneurism of left carotid, Frederick, 9th February ; eommon carotid ligated below the omo-hyoid by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army, '27th February; ligature came away, 13th March; slight haemorrhages from wound controlled by pressure, 16th, 17th, 18th March; expectorated fresh red blood, 3d, 5th, 6th April; and died from profuse haemorrhage by the mouth and suffocation by blood in trachea, 5 p. in., 6tb April, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 3981. A wet preparation of the larynx and adjacent tissues, posteriorly and to the left side. The specimen shows a b. 13. bullet lodged against the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, having severed the vertebral artery. The carotid has been ligated for secondary haemorrhage that was supposed to proceed from the lingual, which also was severed. Private W. P., "H," 9th Virginia: conoidal ball entered the right side of the face an inch from the outer angle of the mouth, fractured the lower jaw, severed the lingual artery and lodged, Halltown, Va, 25th August; admitted hospital, Frederick, 27th August; haemorrhage from the mouth controlled by pressure on left common carotid, and artery then ligated by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army, 3d September; died from secondary haemorrhage, 4th September, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 3409. A wet preparation of the left common carotid, ten days after ligation for secondary haemorrhage, showing a b. 14. fair clot. Corporal G. P., "H," 91st Pennsylvania, 28: bullet entered left side of chin and lodged beneath the angle of inferior maxilla, place and date not reported; admitted hospital, Washington, 31st October; secondary haemorrhage arrested by compression, 4th November; common carotid tied by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Vols., for recurring haemorrhage, 6th: died from exhaustion, 16th November, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. H. Combs. 508. A wet preparation of the left common carotid, completely plugged by a white fibimous clot, ten days after b. 15. ligation for secondary haemorrhage. Private M. S., "D," 52(1 Pennsylvania: ball entered left mastoid process, passed beneath the inferior maxillary and emerged below the left eye, Fair Oaks, 31st May; secondary" hemorrhage, 13th and 14th June: artery tied above omo- hyoid, 14th ; died, 24th June, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon D. W. Cheever. 898. A wet preparation of the left common carotid, nine days after ligature. The artery has ulcerated without the b. 16. formation of a clot. Corporal J. Q., "G," 38th New York: ball entered behind the left condyle of the lower jaw and escaped at the left side of the nose, Fredericksburg, 13th December; profuse secondary haemorrhages from the mouth, checked by plugging the nates, Washington, 25th, 26th, and 27th ; common carotid ligated above the omo-hyoid by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. N. Fisher, 27th December, 1862; ligature came away and death from secondary haemorrhage followed, 5th January, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 3179. A wet preparation of the left common carotid, ligated an inch and a half below the bifurcation for secondary b. 17. haemorrhage following gunshot. Private H. 15., "A." 1st Palmetto (?) Sharpshooters, 18: wounded in the left temporo-maxillary region. We don R. R., Va.; admitted hospital, Washington, 24th August; haemorrhage, 26th; common carotid )igat«d for haemorrhage, 27th August; haemorrhage recurred daily until death, 2d September, 1864. The bleeding vessel was never detected.