OP THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 287 A. B. 1565. The lower half of the right femur, shattered at the junction of the lower thirds. The specimen shows union d. 37. by means of bridges of new bone embracing the fragments, with lateral and autero-posterior displacement. Pieces of dead bone are yet entangled, and both extremities of the fracture are carious. Sergeant B. F. F., " H," 2d New York Heavy Artillery, 22: admitted hospital, Baltimore, from another hospital, 31st July ; amputated at the junction of the upper thirds and died, 2d August, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon Thomas Sim, U. S. Vols. '792. The lower half of the left femur, fractured in the lowest third by a conoidal ball, with slight union, some deformity d. 38. and one inch shortening. The fractured extremities are necrosed and are spanned at points by new bone. Major G. P. L., 32d New York: Crampton's Gap, Md., 14th September; thigh amputated in the middle third for secondary haemorrhage by Surgeon Lewis W. Oakley, 2d New Jersey, and death occurred, Frederick, 9th November, 1802. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. A. Du Bois, U. S. Army. 2167. The lower half of the left femur, obliquely fractured in the middle third by a conoidal ball, which entered near d. 39. the patella, avoiding the synovial pouches, and lodged in the limb five or six inches above the knee. The specimen was sawn longitudinally to exhibit osteo-myelitis, and shows a partially consolidated fracture, with two inches shortening, and a fragment of ball lodged in the medullary canal. Private T. B., "C," 57th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 30: Rappahannock Station, Va., 7th November; admitted hospital, Washington, 9th November, 1803; femur firmly united, with two inches shortening, and good general health, 1st January ; tumefaction of thigh commenced, 1st February ; cicatrix incised, evacuating a little pus, 2d March ; amputation demanded on the subsidence of inflammation, 20th; secondary haemorrhage, 24th; died, 27th March, 1804. At the autopsy much serous infiltration was found; the soft parts were dissected for eight inches about the wound ; the medulla of the femur above the fracture was bright red, as described by Virchow in osteo-myelitis. Contributed by Surgeon J. A. Lidell, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. b. d. 83. The lower half of the left femur, fractured by the transverse passage of a musket ball on the anterior surface d. 40. above the condyles. The extremity of the upper fragment is necrosed, and its line of demarcation is distinct, above which a little callus has been deposited. Private J. S., "I," 75th Ohio: Second Bull Run, 30th August; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 7th September; amputated in the middle third, 25th September, 18C2. Recovered. Contributed by Surgeon C. Page, U. S. Army. 2803. The lowest third of the left femur, occupied by an oblique gunshot fracture extending through it. The parts d. 41. are not in apposition, but bands of callus fiimly unite them at intervals. Early history of this subject, wounded at Chickamauga, 20th September, 1803, unknown. Received in hospital, Murfreesboro', in a very low condition. Amputated in the middle third as the only chance for life. Died. Contributed by Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vols. 2290. The lower half of the left femur, obliquely fractured in the lowest third by a conoidal ball. Partial union, with d. 42. lateral displacement and four inches shortening, occurred. Contributor and history unknown. 3836. The lower half of the shaft of the left femur, badly comminuted by a conoidal ball. d. 43. Private S. P., "G," 31st Georgia, (Rebel,) 41: Monocacy Junction, 9th July; amputated in the middle third, August; died, Frederick 20th August, 1804. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Coover. 3855. The lower half of the left femur, fractured at the junction of the lower thirds and firmly united, with two and a d. 44. half inches shortening and antero-posterior displacement. The limb was amputated in the middle third in consequence of disorganization of the knee following erysipelas. The specimen displays the structure of the epiphysis. Private C. F. R., "F," 124th Pennsylvania, 29: Antietam, 17th September, 1802; admitted hospital, having been pre- viously treated without apparatus, with two and a half inches shortening, Frederick, 27th January; attacked with erysipelas; knee joint destroyed; amputated in the middle third by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army, 23d February; died from exhaustion following another attack of erysipelas, 21st March, 1803. Contributed by the operator. Sec 3903, XIII. A. B. f. 58. See classes XIV. A. B. c ; XXIII. A. a. 1918. The lower portion of the right femur, fractured in the lowest third, but firmly united with much deformity. On d. 45. two occasions portions of protruding necrosed bone were removed, and the thigh was finally amputated on account of utter uselessness of the limb. Captain K., Louisiana, (Rebel,) 25: Stone River, 1st January; amputated in middle third by Surgeon A. H. Thurston, U. S. Vols., Nashville, 15th September, 1803. Recovered. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Lilly.