CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION VI. 124 3807. Tin' upper half of the right humerus. A conoidal ball partially fractured the bone on the anterior surface at the a. 2. surgical neck, the lower borders of the wound being necrosed. A longitudinal fissure of six inches, unconnected with the wound, exists on the posterior surface of the upper third Private A. C, "K," 6th U S. Cavalry, 28: Petersburg, 1st April ; admitted hospital, Washington, 8th; died from pyaemia, 29th April, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon Benjamin B. Wilson, U. S. Vols. b. Complete Fractures. 2183. The upper two-thirds of the right humerus, one month after injury. A conoidal ball struck just below the lesser b. 1. tuberosity, crushing in the laminated structure at the point of impact. There is no further comminution nor any fracture upward, but an oblique fracture with a sharply defined line of cleavage extends for six inches down the diaphysis. Superficial necrosis is observable in many parts of the specimen. Private J. L. B., "A," 6th Indiana, 25: Mission Ridge, 25th November; admitted hospital, Nashville, 3d December; died from exhaustion following secondary haemorrhage, 20th December, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon C. W. Horner, U. S. Vols. 3483. The upper third of the right humerus, partially fractured by a missile striking the anterior portion of the surgical b. 2. neck, two weeks after injury. Longitudinal fissures extend down the shaft from the point of impact, and one of lour inches, not directly communicating with the wound, exists on the posterior surface. Except a slight one in the lesser tuberosity, none reach the epiphysis. There is no attempt at repair. Private W. L., "C," 97th Indiana: Atlanta, 16th August; declined an operation and died, Fifteenth Corps Hospital, Marietta, Ga., 31st August, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon A. Goslin, 48th Illinois. 1507. The lower two-thirds of the left humerus, exhibiting a nearly transverse fracture at the junction of the lower b. 3. thirds, with three well-marked longitudinal fissures of the lower and one small one of the upper portion. There is no comminution. Contributor and history unknown. 1087. The lower half of the left humerus, fractured with moderate obliquity and without comminution by a missile b. 4. which has chipped a small portion from the internal border at the place of fracture. Private T. E. M., " I," 33d North Carolina (Rebel): Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hospital, Wash- ington, 7th May ; amputated middle third; transferred to Old Capitol Prison, 25th June, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon H. Bryant, U. S. Vols 114. The lower half of the right humerus, transversely fractured in the lowest third. The extremities at the place of b. 5. fracture are necrosed for about one inch, with lines of separation forming. The wound was received in action at Fayetteville, Ark., 1862, but no further history is kiuwn. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon B. E. Fryer, U. S. Army. 1872. The lower half of the left humerus, transversely fractured near the centre of the shaft. Necrosis of the extremity b. 6. exists for one-fourth of an inch. The history of this case has not been communicated, but it is presumed to be the result of gunshot. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Joseph Leidy. 3879. A portion of the left humerus, obliquely fractured in tin- upper third without comminution. A longitudinal fissure b. 7. of two inches occupies each border of the fracture. Private L. G., " K," 42d North Carolina (Rebel): Gettysburg, 3d July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 6th; died from pyaemia, 21st July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G M. Paullin. 4291. A portion of the left humerus, exhibiting an oblique fracture with slight comminution from a conoidal ball in the b. 8. lowest third. Both extremities bordering on the fracture are necrosed, and superficial necrosis occupies the posterior surface of the shaft to its middle. Private E. H. F., " E," 7th Wisconsin: Southside R. R., Va., 31st March ; died from pyaemia, Washington, 23d April, 1865. Contributed by Surgeon G. L Pancoast, U. S. Vols. 4175. The lowest third of the left humerus, perforated from behind, directly above the condyles, with slight shattering, b. 9. A longitudinal fracture extending upward fortwo inches closes abruptly at that point in a transverse fracture, which embraces one-half the calibre of the shaft. Received, without history, from Ninth Corps Hospital.