8 HI. VERTEBRAL COLUMN AND SPINAL CORD. A. Gunshot Injuries. f a. Involving the bones only. A. Recent Conditions. | o SSK^SSiu l„ d. Dislocations. a. Involving the Bones Oni,y. 1647. The second, third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. A small bullet, as though from a carbine, which passed through a. 1. the eleventh rib, transversely perforated from right to left the body of the third vertebra near its anterior face. Death occurred from haemorrhage from the liver. Private W. B., "I," 6th Pennsylvania Cavalry: Branny Station, Va., 1st August, 1863; died while being carried to hospital at Washington. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See 3291, IV. A. B. b. 20 ; 1646, XX. A. a. a. 4. 3750. The last two lumbar vertebras. The body of the fifth is torn up by a conoidal ball which passed transversely a. 2. through the abdomen and lodged iii the right iliac fossa. Private J. D., " B," 5th Minnesota, 21: wounded and admitted hospital, Nashville, 15th December; died, 18th December, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. C. May. 3458. The body of the second lumbar vertebra, in which is lodged a conoidal ball fired at nine yards. The missile a. 3. entered the abdomen on the left side, caused a depressed fracture of the inner table of the ilium near its crest, perforated the small intestine in two places, and exposed, but did not injure the cauda equina. The vertebra is vertically and obliquely fractured through its body. Private W. B., "B,"55th Massachusetts (colored): shot by Provost Guard, Folly Island, S. C, llth November, 1864 died six hours afterward. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Burt G. Wilder, 55th Massachusetts. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3780. Portions of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, with a conoidal ball lodged in the body of the former, which a. 4. is badly shattered. The ball entered two inches below and outside of the right nipple, gouged out its calibre from the upper border of the eighth rib, passed through the lower lobe of the right lung, the diaphragm, the right lobe of the liver, and lodged as seen. The track of the ball in the liver was three inches in diameter. "The only symptom noticeable was hiccough." Private W. A., " F," 114th U. S. Colored Troops: Brownsville, Texas, 28th January, 1866; died in thirty-eight hours. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Ira Perry, 9th U. S. Colored Troops. See class XXVII. B. B. d. b. Involving the Cord. 611. The first three lumbar vertebrae, with the spinous process of the second shattered by a conoidal ball which b. 1. penetrated to the canal, " bruising the cord," and firmly impacting itself between the arches of the first and second. The case is remarkable in that the patient was not conscious of being wounded for some hours, and walked without difficulty. The missile is placed in position in the specimen. Private J R., "I," 86th New York, 19: wounded, 22d August; admitted hospital, Washington, 25th; bullet removed by Surgeon R. H. Coolidge, U. S. Army, 26th; died, 27th August, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon S. R. Skillern. Sec class XXVII. B. B. d. 4157. Portions of the last four cervical vertebrae. A conoidal ball passed diagonally through the bodies of the fifth and b. 2. sixth from right to left and backward and downward and fractured the laminae and transverse processes of the sixth and seventh, slightly lacerating the cord, forcing it to one side and compressing it seriously in its passage. Corporal M. D., "D," llth U. S. Infantry: on picket near the Weldon Railroad, 31st August; died, 1st September, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Edward Brooks, U. S. Army.