A.B. 13 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 95. A skull, showing a fracture of the frontal bone and walls of the right orbit, caused by a musket ball. The a. 6. inner half of the right supra-orbital arch, the greater part of the orbital plate of the frontal, and the right lateral plate of the ethmoid are removed. All the bones composing the walls of the orbit are more or less fractured and comminuted, and a fissure extends backward from the external angular process of the frontal to the right parietal protuberance. Both walls of the right frontal sinus are partially carried away. Unknown (Eebel). Contributed by Surgeon J. B. Brinton, U. S. Vols. 1169. A cranium fractured by a musket ball which entered just below the right orbit, carried away the orbital plate a. 7. of the superior maxilla, the right pterygoid process of the sphenoid, and the right condyle of the occipital bone. A fissure two inches long runs backward from the right posterior condyloid foramen to the inferior curved line of the occipital. Unknown (Rebel): killed at Antietam. Contributed by Surgeon B. A Vanderkeift, U. S. Vols. 831. A cranium extensively fractured and fissured, probably by shell. An opening extends from the right frontal a. 8. eminence to the mastoid portion of the right temporal, being five inches long and one and a half inches wide. From the anterior extremity of this a fracture traverses the frontal bone to the middle of the h it branch <>i' the coronal suture, while from the posterior portion a second fracture traverses the right parietal to the centre of the occipital bone. A part of the right orbital plate of the frontal is carried away. Lines of fracture traverse the right supra-orbital arch, the nasal process of the right superior maxillary, and the base of the mastoid process of the right temporal. Contributed by Dr. Holmes. 952. Skull of a negro soldier, fractured by a small pistol ball which entered at the inner and lower angle of the left a. 9. orbit, traversed the lachrymal and body of the ethmoid, and entered the cranial cavity through the centre of the anterior wall of the sella turcica, making a square aperture one-half inch in diameter. The inferior wall of tin: left orbit is comminuted; the ball, somewhat flattened, is attached. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Moss, U. S. Vols. See 957, I. C. B. b. 8; 953, XXII. A. B. a. 1. See class XXVII. B. B. d. For other illustrations see 4150, XXVII. B. B. d 185. b. Operated upon by the Removal of Fkagments. 1673. A portion of the frontal bone with a depressed fracture, b. 1. supposed to have been produced by a pistol ball. The exter- nal table is fractured to the diameter of one-fourth of an inch. A fragment of the inner table, one-half by one inch, is com- pletely separated and driven inward. Nearly all the fractured portion of the outer table has been removed ; a small fragment remaining is driven into the diploe to the depth of two lines. The specimen is interesting from the much greater size of the internal than the external injury. See figures 16 and 17. Private J. K., " G," 6th New York Cavalry: Gettysburg, 3d July; admitted hospital, (from a Baltimore hospital.) Washington, 24th; died, from abscess of the brain, 27th July, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon 0. A. Judson, U. S. Vols. 430. A necrosed fragment of bone, three-fourths of an inch long and one-eighth of an inch wide, removed by b. 2. operation from the occipital bone fractured by a musket ball. Corporal J. A. B., "C," 2d New Hampshire: Gettysburg, 2d July; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 10th July, 1863; reported cured, 1st March, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon L. K. Baldwin. 2001. The vault of the cranium, showing fracture of the left parietal bone near the sagittal suture, from which the b. 3. loose fragments have been removed. The opening in the outer table measures three-fourths by one-fourth of an inch, with slight Assuring surrounding a fragment which measures one-fourth square inch. The portion of inner table removed measures three-fourths by one and one-fourth inches. Contributed from Chattanooga, by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Byrne, U. S. Army.