B. 13. 67 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. b. Involving the Cord. 2080. Two fragments of the left lamina of the fourth cervical vertebra, which pressed upon the cord and were removed b. 1. after death. Captain T. J., C. S., U. S. Vols.: injured by a falling house, Larkinsville, Ala., 31st December, 1863 ; paraplegia existed, but the exact injury could not be made out during life; death from asphyxia occurred, January, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon J. S. Prout, 26th Missouri. 3159. A wet preparation of a portion of the spinal cord after a simple vertical fracture of the sixth cervical vertebra, b. 2. The posterior edges of the fracture pressed upon the anterior surface of the cord opposite the origins of the seventh and eighth cervical nerves. The spinous processes of the fourth, fifth and sixth vertebrae were dislocated and sufficiently fractured to press upon the roots of the sixth, but not on those of the fifth nerve. At the points of direct injury the cord in the recent state was inflamed and disorganized into a red pulp, which, in a degree, is seen by a vertical section of the wet specimen. The origin of the phrenic nerve was uninjured by the accident, but became gradually involved in the inflammation which extended along the gray substance almost to the medulla oblongata. Private J. A. T., "I," 1st New York Engineers, 18: struck the hard beach with the top of his head in diving in two feet of water, Folly Island, S. C, 27th July, 1864; died, from asphyxia, after sixty hours. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Burt G. Wilder, 55th Massachusetts. d. Dislocations. 549. A ligamentous preparation of the first six cervical vertebrae. There is a complete and symmetrical dislocation d. 1. backward of the fifth upon the fourth, with a rupture of the subflavian and capsular ligaments, and also of the attachment of the ligamentum nuchas. The superior posterior edge of the body of the fifth encroached upon the spinal canal sufficiently to bend it at that point at an abrupt angle, reducing its antero-posterior diameter more than one-half, but the cord was not lacerated nor its meninges torn, which may be accounted for by the separation of one and a half inches between the spinous processes of the fourth and fifth permitting it to bulge posteriorly. On the right side a portion of the anterior tubercle of the transverse process has snapped off. Private J. F., "B," 2d U. S. Infantry, 35: In attempting to turn a somersault without touching his hands or head, fell upon his head, 10th February, 1866. Sensation and power of motion were wanting from the point of injury downward, but consciousness was not affected; death followed in forty-four hours. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Gray, U. S. Army. f a. Involving the bones only. Be, j r, lb. Involving the cord. . secondary conditions. ^ c_ Kesuits of operatio operations. [_&. Dislocations. b. Involving the Cord. 149. Several vertebrae eighteen days after injury. The first lumbar is transversely fractured through the body in its b. 1. upper third, with each pedicle broken and the left transverse and spinous processes encroachiug upon the cord, which, with the membranes, was lacerated at the lumber and dorsal junction. Corporal J. B., " C," 10th New York: struck by a tree-top (which was severed by a shell) while felling timber, Hatcher's Run, Va., 11th March; paraplegia, with undiminished sensation, existed until death, Washington, 29th March, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. Dusenbury. See 150, III. B. B. b. 2. 150. A wet preparation of the lower portion of the spinal cord, lacerated at the dorsal and lumbar junction by a falling b. 2. tree which transversely fractured the first lumbar vertebra. The membraues are torn entirely across, except a few fibres anteriorly and posteriorly, and were congested above and below the seat of injury. At the autopsy clots of diffused blood were found near the fracture. The specimen shows the lower portion of the cord, severely lacerated and drawn up into a bundle at the seat of injury, entirely deprived of the membranes. Corporal J. B, "C," 10th New York: wounded by a tree falling under shell fire, Hatcher's Run, Va., 11th March: paraplegia, with undiminished sensation, existed until death, Washington, 29th March, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. Dusenbury. See 149, III. B. I? b. 1.