158 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION VII. 351* Three inches from the lower extremity of the right humerus, excised. An oblique fracture extends from the d. 57. point of impact of a bullet, an inch above the outer condyle, to the inner condyle, which is split off. The lower portion of the shaft is superficially necrosed. Private E. O'N., " D," 10th Ohio: Perryville, 8th October; admitted hospital, New Albany, Ind., 14th; excised by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Sloan; the wound was doing well at the time of desertion, 30th October, 1862. Contributed by the operator. none is necro! Two deep fi.H 885. Two and a half inches of the upper extremity of the It-ft radius, excised. The bone is necrosed on the outer d. 58. surface on a level with the tuberosity, as though the result of a guushot conti their inferior extremities, form a partial fracture of the shaft. Case of a Wisconsin soldier, wounded at Antietam, and successfully excised by Assistant Surgeon E. de W. Breneman, U. S. Army, Philadelphia, October, 1862. Contributed by the operator. 3012. The upper half of the olecranon and three inches of the lower extremity of the d. 59. humerus, excised from the right elbow. The shaft has been struck just above the inner condyle, producing a complete fracture through the trochlea. A space at the point of impact about the calibre of the bullet is necrosed, beyond which some periosteal inflam- mation has occurred. See figure GO. Private J. H., 2d North Carolina, (Rebel,) 40: Gettysburg, 3d July; admitted hospital, Fred- crick, Gth; excised by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army, 29th July, 1863; transferred to Baltimore, 5th May, 1864. Contributed by the operator. See 2570, XXV. A. B. a. 8. 2418. Three inches of the lower extremity of the left humerus, excised. The specimen d. 60. shows a complete oblique fracture in the lowest portion of the shaft, complicated with a perpendicular one downward directly through the trochlea, of which the central por- tion is missing On the posterior upper border of the transverse fracture is a moderate collection of callus. The olecrauon was fractured, but is not preserved in the specimen. See figure 61. Private J. P., "C," 39th New York: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 13th; excised by Surgeon G. L. Pancoast, U. S.-Vols., 25th May, 1864; discharged the service, 7th November, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 1178. Three inches of the lower extremity of the left humerus and the coronoid and olecra- d. 61. non processes, excised. A fracture in the trochlea runs two inches up the shaft. A section through the olecranon implies it was removed in the operation. inches Private J. T., "C," 10th Massachusetts, 22: Second Fredericksburg, 3d May; admitted hos- elsed. pital, Washington, 8th; excised by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army, 18th May; died, 27th May, 1863. Contributed by Acting Medical Cadet J. Winston. 13©9. Three inches of the lower extremity of the right humerus and the upper extremities of the radius and ulna, d. 62. excised. The humerus was perforated just above the outer condyle and shattered. Private J. S., "C," 165th New York, 40: Port Hudson, La., 27th May; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 29th May; excised, 9th June, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Conner, U. S. Army. 302G. Two and a half inches from the lower extremity of the right humerus, excised. One inch of the upper extremity d. 63. of the ulna and a small portion of the head of the radius were removed at the same time, but have not been preserved. Two incomplete longitudinal fractures, one on each surface of the shaft, arise from the lower border. The trochlea is destroyed, the outer condyle shattered aud the inner condyle separated by an oblique fracture. Superficial necrosis exists over much of the specimen, the remainder showing reparative periosteal disturbance. Private W. D. R., "D," 81st New York, 21: accidentally wounded, Brandy Station, Va., 26th November; admitted hospital, Alexandria, the same day; excised by Surgeon Charles Page, U. S. Army, 19th December, 1864. Recovered. Reenlisted in Company "K," 5th Regiment, 1st Army Corps. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon C. W. Kcechling. 2023. Three inches of the lower extremity of the right humerus and the bones of the forearm, excised through the d. 64. coronoid process and head of the radius for a fracture of the shaft of the humerus from a ball passing transversely above the condyles.