II. 46 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 1016. A section of cranium, with the bones of the face fractured and comminuted by a fragment of shell, which b. 4. caused death on the fourteenth day. The nasal, lachrymal, body of the ethmoid and turbinated bones, with the upper parts of the bodies of both superior mamillaries and the vomer, have been carried away. Both malar bones are separated and dislocated backward, a fracture traverses the body of the sphenoid and the petrous portion of the left temporal bone, and a second fissure divides longitudinally the palatine process of the right superior maxillary. The froual sinuses, which are very large, are freely exposed, and the cranial cavity is opened through the ethmoid, the opening measuring three-fourths by one-half inch. Private W. V., "E," 1st Texas (Rebel): Arkansas Post, 10th January; admitted hospital, St. Louis, 22d; died, 23d January, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. ■ See class I. A. a. c. 2899. A skull showing extensive fracture and removal of the bones of the face, probably caused by a fragment of shell b. 5. which entered below and external to the left eye and passed out below the right orbit, from which death followed about the eighteenth day. The right malar, the bodies of both superior maxillaries, both lachrymal bones, the body of the ethmoid, with the turbinated bones, the left great ala of the sphenoid, and the left external angular process of the frontal with the orbital plate have been carried away. The left parietal is fissured from the anterior inferior angle to the parietal eminence. The left palate bone is fractured across, the sphenoidal cells are exposed, and the cranial cavity is freely opened. The edges of the fractured bones are slightly necrosed and show traces of an attempt at repair. Private C. C, "H," 30th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 30: admitted hospital, Washington, 14th May; died, 27 th May, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. E. Winants. See class I. B. D. 2219. A portion of the cranial and facial bones, fractured probably by a pistol ball which entered at the internal and b. 6. inferior angle of the right orbit and passed backward, outward, and downward, and merged through the pterygo- maxillary fossa. The external and inferior walls of the orbit are comminuted, and the antrum is freely opened. A fissure one inch in length traverses the frontal bone above and behind the external angular process. E. B , colored: shot, and wounded with an axe on the cranium; detained in jail three weeks; admitted hospital, Wash- ington, 18th February; died, 19th February, 1866. Contributed by Dr. S. S. Bond. See 2321, I. B. B. c. 3; 2369, I. C. B. b. 18; 2328, I. C. B. b. 19. For other illustrations, see 2690, I. A. B. b. 70; I. 3257, I. A. B. d. 14; 2487, I. A. c. c. 4; 4628, XXVI. A. 2, 79. c. Results of Operations. 627. A small fragment of the palatine bone, removed and contributed by Dr. W. H. Davis. c. 1. 1690. A fragment of the alveolar process of the right superior maxilla, containing one canine and one bicuspid tooth, c. 2. fractured by a musket ball and removed by operation. Private W. T. M., "G," 15th Massachusetts: Gettysburg, 2d July; admitted hospital and operated upon, Baltimore, 10th; reported nearly well, 31st July, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon C. W. Jones, U. S. Vols. 3374. A disc of bone removed by the trephine from the left superior maxilla, with a battered and flattened conoidal ball c. 3. removed from the antrum. Private J. K., " K," 102d Pennsylvania, 25: Wilderness, 5th May; admitted hospital, Washington, 11th; specimen removed, 23d May; discharged the service, 3d September, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon George A. Mursick, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3991. A part of the alveolar process and body of left superior maxilla, fractured probably by gunshot. The teeth remain c. 4. in situ. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Samuel Adams, U. S. Army. 1531. The alveolar process and a fragment of the body of the right superior maxilla, fractured by a musket ball and c. 5. removed by operation. TJie fragment of body is one and three-fourths inches long by one-half inch in width, and includes the nasal process and canine fossa. All the teeth are in situ, the line of fracture having opened the top of the alveoli. Private , 11th (?) Excelsior (New York Volunteers): wounded, and operated upon on the field by Assistant Surgeon J. Theodore Calhoun, IT. S. Army, Gettysburg, 3d July, 1863.