169 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 3248. The lower portion of the rigbthumerus with the upper portions of the bones of theforearm. There has been a fracture f. 72. of the tip of the olecranon, a fissure through the coronoid process, and, probably, a fracture of the condyles, for which the lower extremity of the humerus has been excised. The specimen shows partial erosion of the heads o the radius and the ulna. The humerus was amputated in the middle third, having been superficially necrosed to that point. Private H. P., "A," 14th Connecticut, 36: admitted hospital, Washington, 17th August ; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. H. Ensign; died exhausted, 24th October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. H. Cral. See class VII. A. a. c. 1663. The lower half of the right humerus, probably amputated. A bullet, apparently round, has lodged in the shaft f. 73. just above the coronoid fossa, producing an oblique fracture of the inner border for four inches. Partial fractures extend into the joint, necrosed fragments border the lines of fracture and scales of lead have been left by the embedded ball. A thin layer of osseous deposit coats the shaft. Contributed from Fort Schuyler, N. Y. H., by Assistant Surgeon Roberts Bartholow, U. S. Army. 192. The upper portion of the left ulna, from the olecranon process of which several fragments have been removed, f. 74. The articular surface is somewhat eroded, and amputation was subsequently performed in the middle third of the arm. Private D. U., "M," 4th Pennsylvania Cavalry, 35: Dinwiddie C H., Va., 31st March ; admitted hospital, Washington, 4th April; fragments removed, 14th; arm amputated by Acting Assistant Surgoon H. Craft, 24th April; transferred to another hospital, 18th July, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. Allen, U. S. Army. 1412. The lower half of the right humerus, apparently amputated for a nearly transverse fracture through both condyles, f. 75. Received from Second Corps from Surgeon Wood. 1664. The bones of the right elbow, from which the olecranon and the lowest two inches of the humerus have been f. 76. excised, subsequently amputated in the middle third of the arm. The bones of the forearm are anchylosed, and the extremity of the humerus presents an irregular deposit of callus. Private W. L., "C," 20th Massachusetts: Fredericksburg, 13th December, 1862. The joint was excised, and amputation of the arm was performed afterward. Recovered. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Roberts Bartholow, U. S. Army. See class VII. A. A. c. 222. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation in the middle third of the humerus. The coronoid process of the f. 77. ulna and the inner condyle are shattered, and an oblique fracture extends through the extremity of the shaft. PrivateG. A. W., "I," 5th Michigan: Williamsburg, 5th May; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 19th; amputated by Surgeon John Neill, U. S. Vols., 21st May; died from pyaemia, 24th June, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Livezey. 820. The lower half of the right humerus, comminuted just above the condyles and amputated two weeks after injur}', f. 78. The fracture extends into the joint, passing directly through the trochlea, the articular surface of which is eroded. Private J. H. P., "A," 29th Massachusetts: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 22d September ; amputated by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. S. Adams, 3d October; attacked with hospital gangrene, (itb November, 1862. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. See class XXIII. A. B. 168. The left humerus, amputated in the middle third after shattering of the articular extremity. f. 79. Private W. F. A., Knapp's Pennsylvania Battery: Antietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Washington, 22d; amputated, 26th September, 1862. Recovered. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, U. S. Army. 165. The bones of the right elbow, after amputation in the middle third for shattering of the upper two inches of the ulna f. 80. and the inner condyle. Private W. R. R., "H," 20th New York State Militia: Second Bull Run, 30th August; admitted hospital, Washington, 1 st September ; amputated, 10th; died from pyaemia, 28th September, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, IT. S. Army. 22