149 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM 605. The lowest fifth of the right humerus. A bullet appears to have entered on the anterior surface above the outer b. 6. condyle, completely fracturing the shaft and splitting off the upper portion of the laminated structure of the bone posteriorly. The posterior portion of the outer condyle was broken off. The first rib and parts of the spinous processes of two cervical vertebrae were fractured and the lung wounded at the same time by another missile. Private W. B T., "E," 4th Maine: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th; died from secondary haemorrhage within the thorax, 28th December, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon F. P. Sprague. See 603, XIX. A. B. a. 27. If SO. The lower half of the left humerus. A leaden canister shot, passing transversely, struck the shaft just above the b. 7. inner condyle, crushing its outer border and completely fracturing the trochlea in its centre. Particles of lead remain in the cancellated structure. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. E. Semple, U. S. Army. 2192. The bones of the left elbow, showing a severe fracture from a conoidal ball which, battered, is lodged in the outer b. 8. condyle. The outer condyle is destroyed, and a perpendicular fracture extends upward two inches. Private A. H., "I," 86th Indiana,26: Mission Ridge, 25th November: admitted hospital, Nashville, 3d December; died from pyaemia, 16th December, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon M. L. Herr. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3287. The lowest five inches of the right humerus, with a curious longitudinal fracture of the shaft. The lowest b. 9. internal two inches are wanting. A slight periosteal deposit is to be observed. Contributor and history unknown. 3506. The lowest third of the humerus and upper halves of the bones of the forearm. The outer condyle has been shot b. 10. away and the articular surfaces are necrosed. A cavity, one-half inch in depth, extends transversely from the base of the condyle into the trochlea. Contributed from Nashville by Surgeon W. R. Pounds. 876. The bones of the left elbow. A missile appears to have perforated the joint, breaking the trochlea and carrying b. 11. away the olecranon. An oblique fracture extends in both the ulna and humerus for two inches from the articulation. No operation appears to have been performed. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Leidy. 2189. The bones of the left elbow,with fractures of the face of the olecranon, the inner condyle and trochlea. The ulnar b. 12. articulating surfaces are carious, and a slight plate of necrosed bone exists in the upper part of the coronoid fossa. Private W. K., "E," 32d Indiana: Mission Ridge, 25th November; admitted hospital, Nashville, 3d December; died exhausted, 24th December, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Preston Peter. 196. The bones of the leftr elbow, fractured. A bullet has struck the trochlea on its anterior face and shattered the b. 13. extremity of the humerus ; three inches of the upper part of the ulua are comminuted, and the head of the radius is fractured. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. 678. The bones of the left elbow. The external condyle has been split off and the olecranon destroyed, as if by the b. 14. oblique passage of a bullet. The articular surfaces aud the fractured extremities are necrosed. Private G. S. R., "G," 3d Maine: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 23d December, 1862; died, 13th January, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon H. Bryant, U. S. Vols. The bones of the right elbow, exceedingly carious, with the articulation completely destroyed. The head of the b. 15. radius appears to have been fractured from the rear. Contributor and history unknown. SYSl. The bones of the right elbow, with the outer condyle wanting. Ulceration has completely destroyed the articular b. 16. surfaces. Thin osseous deposits rest on the shafts near the joint. Received from Nashville, Tenn. 418. The upper portions of the left radius and ulna. The coronoid process has been shot away and the articular b. 17. surfaces are carious. Contributed by Surgeon L. Quick, U. S. Vols.