XII. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 234 See class XXVII. B. It. d. 3080. Tlie upper two-thirds of the right femur. The shaft for a long distance from the trochanters is completely corn- el 4. minuted, the extreme length of the fracture being eight and a half inches and one-half of the fragments being missing. The injury was by shell, which produced great laceration of the soft parts. The operation was performed two hours after injury, when the subject seemed in the most favorable condition. Private J. 13., "B," 26th Pennsylvania, 22: Spottsylvania, 18th May, 1864; disarticulated by Surgeon C. C. Jewett, 16th Massachusetts Died two hours afterward. Contributed by the operator. f a. Contusions, partial fractures and dislocations. | b. Complete fractures. "jacent parts B, „ ,.. I c Caries dependent upon injury to ; . Secondary Conditions. <; d. Excisions | f. Other operations. L g. Sequestra and exfoliations. a. Contusions, Partial Fractures and Dislocations. 1285. The bones of the left hip joint, with a conoidal ball. The missile appears to have contused the inferior border a. 1. of the head of the femur, although the history claims the superior marerin of the acetabulum was chipped. The bony injury was very trivial and no serious consequences ensued until after imprudent exertion. In the specimen the entire articular surfaces are eroded. Private J. D., "E,"12(Jth Pennsylvania, 20: Chancellorsville, 3d May; died from pytemia, Fifth Corps Hospital, 3d June, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Philip Adolphus, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. It. d. 1461. The upper fourth of the right femur. A bullet at low velocity has impinged against the neck on the anterior a. 2. surface, crushing in the compact substance and causing a slight fissure down the shaft, and another, almost imperceptible, on the posterior surface of the neck. The capsule was probably opened, and some periosteal inflam- mation has occurred. Contributor and history unknown. 465. The upper extremity of the right femur, contused on the under surface of the neck at its junction with the head, a. 3. No pathological change appears beyond moderate local necrosis. A spherical leaden ball is mounted with the specimen. Private J. S., "B," 43d Ohio: Corinth, Miss., 3d October; admitted hospital, St. Louis, 15th ; died, 24th October, 1862 Contributed by Surgeon J. T. Hodgen, U. S Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3951. The upper fourth of the left femur, with a fragment of a round ball embedded in the neck within the capsule, a. 4. The specimen is a very fair illustration of injury to bone by such missiles at low velocities. There is no evidence of chronic articular disease. Contributor and history unknown. See classes XIII. A. B. a.; XXVII. B B. d. 545. The upper portion of the left femur, with the great trochanter fractured and a portion of a round ball embedded in • a. 5. the neck. The missile passed behind the neck of the femur to the body of the pubes, and was discovered in the scrotum, near the spermatic cord, about an inch and a half below the external ring. Lieutenant A. G. R., Adjutant, 134th Pennsylvania, 24: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 20th ; died of tetanus, 28th December, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon Charles L. Allen, U. S. Vols. See classes XX. A. Ii. a.; XXVII. B. it. d. 2374. A portion of the left ischium and the upper extremity of the femur. There is a partial fracture of the head of the a. 6. femur at its articular border and of the ischium by a battered round ball, which is attached. Private S. I., "C," 10th Massachusetts, 25: The Po, Va., 12th May; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 24th; died exhausted, 28th May, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Jona. Cass.