493 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. C. A. 903. A wet preparation of a large and very old inguinal hernia of the right side which had become scrotal. Two a. 4. distinct and huge loops of the small intestine are embraced, each of which is impermeable from inflammatory action which has covered and agglutinated the entire specimen and is evidently of long standing. Rods are passed in the bowel to show the strictures. Openings between contiguous portions must have occurred at two places, to agree with the the history. Unfortunately, the whole of the specimen was not preserved. F. B., (colored,) 70: admitted hospital, Alexandria, 22d May; made no complaint of the hernia; "on the 26th diarrhoea supervened, over which appropriate remedies seemed to exercise little or no controlling influence, and he sank ; died, May 28th 1866." Report of the Ward Surgeon. Contributed by Surgeon Edwin Bentley, U. S. Vols. 2919. About twenty-four square inches of integument, from a case of umbilical hernia. " An opening at the umbilicus a. 5. through the linea alba, with a tendinous margin lined by peritoneum covered by fascia and integument, two inches in diameter, of circular form and rounded edges," was found at the autopsy. Unknown (colored) : admitted hospital, Washington, Kith January, 1866; died the next day. From Freedman's Hospital, Washington; autopsy by Hospital Steward S. S. Bond, U. S. Army. b. Operated Upon. 951. A portion of the rib of a rabbit, two inches in length, extracted from the rectum of an officer. It was found lodged b. 1. transversely just above the sphincter and had remained in the body twelve days. Contributed by Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Basil Norris, Surgeon, U. S. Army. (j i Diseases. A.. Operated Upon. 1687. A calculus, weighing twenty-three grains, extracted, by lithotomy, four months after a wound of the bladder. A. 1. Private S. E. P., "K," 16th New York, 27: a conoidal ball passed through his canteen, entered the body near the left inguinal canal and lodged near the right trochanter, Salem Church, Va., 3d May ; ball extracted on the fourth day; admitted hospital, Washington, 13th June; fragments of stone that had foreign bodies for neuclei escaped at intervals, and the specimen was removed, by lateral lithotomy, by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols., 9th September; transferred North, 28th October, 1863. The nucleus appears to be cloth. Contributed by the operator. 1334. A mulberry calculus, removed by lateral lithotomy. A. 2. Private J. R., "L," 8th New York Cavalry, 19: suffered symptomatic pains nearly five years, but was not disqualified for work or duty; admitted Field Hospital with typhoid fever, 1st January ; admitted hospital, Wash- ington, 22d April; specimen removed by Surgeou D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols., 29th June, 1863. Contributed by the operator. 3654. The left testicle, enormously enlarged and excised entire. The organ, when removed, weighed two and a A. 3. quarter pounds. W. S., (colored,) 50: removed by Assistant Surgeon S. J. Bumstead, 29th Illinois, Vicksburg, Miss., November, 1864. Recovered. Contributed by the operator. See class XXIV. C. A. a. 4066. The right testicle, extirpated, two years after the injury, for an abscess following a bruise. A. 4. Recruit H. D. T., 25th Ohio, 23: hurt by falling, January, 1863; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 4th March, 1865; abscess broke, 23d March; operation performed, 2d April, 1865. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. W. Tryon.