CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 238 XII. See class XXVII. B. if. d. The upper portion of the left femur. A musket ball entered the anterior surface and became impacted in the base b. 5. of the neck, causing a longitudinal fracture through the great trochanter that involved the head and several inches of the shaft. The bullet has been removed, leaving a conical cavity of the depth of two inches. Private B. II., " C," 9th West Virginia, 19: Winchester, 20th July; admitted hospital, Cumberland, 23d; bullet extracted, 26th July; died, 3d August, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon J. 13. Lewis, U. S. Vols. 3726. The upper extremity of the left femur and the greater portion of the acetabulum. The summit of the head of the b. 6. femur has been grooved and the superior margin of the acetabulum broken by a bullet which entered close to Poupart's ligament. The joint became disorganized, the limb gangrenous and the sigmoid flexure of the colon ulcerate,], from which death followed. Private R. S N., "A," 2Gth Massachusetts, 34: Winchester, 19th September; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 1st November; died, 20th November, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon B. B. Miles, Curator Jarvis Hospital. 5-48. The upper third of the right femur. A bullet has struck the base of the great trochanter and, passing upward, b. 7. grooved in the bone its own calibre, splitting it in three large fragments, the line of fracture entering the capsule. There has been no attempt at repair, but the inferior portion of the shaft is much roughened and superficially necrosed by dissecting sinuses. Contributor and history unknown. 1300. The upper third of the left femur. A conoidal ball flattened itself against the anterior surface at the base of the b. 8. great trochanter, obliquely fracturing the shaft and lower part of the neck nearly to the head. Private F. G., "A," 1st Louisiana, 42: before Port Hudson, La., 27th May; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 29th May ; died, 4th June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Conner, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. I!, d. 598. The upper third of the left femur, with a conoidal ball firmly embedded on the anterior face at the junction of the b. 9. head and neck. Several fissures extend into the head and back upon the great trochanter. Private C. C. B., "E," 16th Maine, 26: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 19th; died from pytemia, 25th Decembei, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon E. Beutley, U. S. Vols. See class XXVM. B. B. d. 1291. The upper extremity of the left femur, showing a complete fracture through the neck without comminution, except b. 10. to a small extent at the point of impingement on the superior margin. The missile, which passed through the obturator foramen and lodged in the middle line of the perineum, is attached. Private W. C , "C," 159th New York, 37: Irish Bend, La., 14th April; admitted hospital, New Orleans, 17th ; died, 21st April, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon P. S. Conner, U. S. Army. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3904. The bones of the left hip joint. A conoidal ball from the front has fractured the horizontal ramus of the pubes, b. 11. the pubic portion of the acetabulum, and has chipped off a fragment from the inferior segment of the head of the femur. The articular surfaces are somewhat eroded. Private Z. S., " K," 2d Ohio Cavalry, 25: Richmond, (Valley,) Va., 22d August; admitted hospital, Frederick, 29th August; died, 7th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Coover. 3789. The upper extremity of the left femur. The head is completely fractured from the neck by a conoidal ball which b. 12. gouged out its own course on the superior border. A complete fracture through the depression for the ligamentum teres separates the posterior third of the head. Captain J. F. G., "G," 47th Pennsylvania: Cedar Creek, 19th October; died exhausted, Winchester, 5th November, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon L. P. Wagner, 114th New York. 1908. The bones of the right hip joint, with a conoidal ball, which entered from the rear one inch above the greater b. 13. iscbiatic notch and chipped the lower margin of the acetabulum, lodged in the summit of the head of the femur, which is perpendicularly fractured in that line. Private J. W., " K," 6th Maryland, 45: accidentally wounded, 30th November; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 4th Deeem- Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Jona. Cass.