28 I. CATALOGUE OF TIIK SURGICAL SECTION 3254. A section of cranium, showing penetration and fracture of the left temporal bone just above and including d. 16. the meatus auditorius externus, with fracture of the occipital by coutre-coup, caused by a conoidal ball, which is attached. The opening is just above :he root of the zygoma and is three-fourths of an inch in diameter. The condyle of the lower jaw and the posterior half of the glenoid fossa are carried away, together with the extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the line of fracture passing through the internal meatus auditorius. From the left jugular foramen two lines of fracture pass to the foramen magnum, one in front of and the other behind the condyle. On the right side the occipital bone is traversed by a fracture which runs from the foramen magnum to the posterior angle of the light parietal. Unknown: autopsy made at Lincoln General Hospital, Washington, 22d September, 1864. The ball was found in the parotid gland. The left hemisphere of the brain was softened. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. See A'. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 335ยง. A cranium penetrated and fractured just in front of the anterior inferior angle of the right parietal bone d. 17. by a conoidal ball, which is attached. A plate from the central portion of the frontal bone, measuring four and one-half inches in diameter, has been detached and displaced outward. A fissure passes downward, separating a part of the great ala of the sphenoid and the squamous portion of the right temporal. Upon the left greater wing of the sphenoid, nearly opposite the point of entrance of the ball, is a discolored spot with a fissure in the centre, marking the point struck by the ball after it had traversed the cranial cavity. Private J. D., " G," 5th Tennessee, (Rebel,) 30: Tunnel Hill, Ga , 30th April; admitted hospital, Nashville, 5th May; died, 15th June, 1864. Contributed by Surgeon R. L. Stanford, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. G83. A section of skull penetrated at the right temporal fossa by a round ball, which has passed through the d. 18. extremity of the great wing of the sphenoid and is lodged in the middle fossa of the base of the cranium. The opening in the cranial wall measures one inch from above downward, and three-fourths of an inch in width. From this point one fissure passes downward across the glenoid cavity, and a second forward into the external wall of the right orbit, which is comminuted. The ball is iucrusted with calcareous matter. There has been no attempt at repair. Private A. M, " D," 155th Pennsylvania: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 17th; died, 20th December, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H, Jamar. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 2891. A section of cranium perforated at the centre of the left supra-orbital ridge by a musket ball. One inch of d. 19. the supra-orbital arch is carried away, and the opening involves one square inch of the external table. The opening internally is a little larger; part of the orbital plate is absent, the left frontal sinus is opened, and a fissure extends inward to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The bone immediately around the opening is cribriform and is covered with a thin chalky layer of new formation. Private C. A. S., "D," 46th New York, 25: admitted hospital, Washington, 1st July; died, 27th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. 3373. A section of skull, showing fracture and comminution of the inter-orbital septa.and of the right orbital plate of d. 20. the frontal bone, caused by a conoidal ball, a portion of which is attached lying in the upper part of the right orbit. The nasal, lachrymal and greater part of the ethmoid bones have been carried away, together with the right orbital plate of the frontal and part of the right wing of the sphenoid, making an opening into the cranial cavity measuring one and a half by two inches. The inferior wall of the right orbit is fractured and driven downward into the antrum. A considerable part of the battered ball is lodged in the sphenoidal sinus. Sergeant J. R. B , "A," 55th Virginia, (Rebel,) 26: admitted hospital, Washington, 8th October; died, 29th October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Dean. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 1108. A segment of cranium with a d. 21. conoidal ball impacted in the ethmoid between the body of the sphenoid and the left orbital plate of the frontal l>ones. The ball entered, point first, through the right moid, the resulting opt by osseous deposit. ' of the ethmoid is ) fractured, the fractur solidated by new bout l.ital plate ig being na Deing nea: A fissure thi ,il impacted in the ethmoid. Spec. 1108.