29 OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. A. C. See class II. A. A. e. tables passes obliquely upward and to the right from the left lachrymal bone through the walls of the frontal sinuses, being two inches in length. A thin layer of ossific deposit covers the, inner table in the immediate vicinity of the ball, which last i- exposed and projects internally for nearly half its circumference. This case is exceedingly remarkable in the absence of all cerebral symptoms until five days before death. The penetration of the cranium was not suspected during life. Sea fiifuris 24 and 25. Corporal G. W. S., "A," 12th Massachusetts, 29: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 19th December, 1862; died, Kith February, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon G. \V. Dare. See 4027, XXVI. A. 1, 1. See class XXVII. B. ii. d. For other illustrations see 2899, II. A. a. b. 5; 3851, III. A. B. a. 20; 4041, XIII. A. it. ,1. 7; 1288, XXVII. 15 it. d 20; 1027, XXVII. B. B. d. 79. e. Other Cases. For illustration see 471n, XXVII. 15. B. d. 111. ™ I a. Primarily fatal. \j. Perforations of the Cranium. \ b. Operated upon. ( c. Secondary results without an operation. a. Primarily Fatal. 2032. A cranium perforated by a small hunting rifle ball, which entered just below the left parietal protuberance and a. 1. emerged half an inch in front of the anterior inferior angle of the right parietal. The first opening is half an inch in diameter, with slight stellate Assuring; the opening of exit is slightly larger, with two fissures, each one inch in length, running in opposite directions. A part of the squamous portion of the left temporal is wanting, but this is probably not due to any injury inflicted before death. From a child, twelve years old, killed in the Mountain Meadow Massacre, where one hundred and eighteen men. women and children, of a party of emigrants from Arkansas, were murdered by the Mormons and Indians, in Southern Utah, in the fall of 1857. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. Army. 4384. A cranium perforated by three small rifle balls. One entered at the anterior inferior angle of the left parietal and a. 2. passed out behind the mastoid process of the right side; the second entered just below the right frontal eminence and fractured the occipital behind the left condyle; the third entered an inch below and behind the right parietal eminence, and appears to have lodged at the inner angle of the left orbit, the corresponding wall of which is shattered. The openings of entrance are about one-third of an inch in diameter, with little or no Assuring. The occipital is comminuted on either side of the foramen magnum; and a small fragment of the orbital plate of the frontal is driven into the frontal sinus. The sagittal suture is open to the root of the nose, forming in effect two frontal bones. The specimen bears the marks of fire, from the burning of the prairie about six mouths before it was picked up. From the skeleton of an unknown man found at Mesita Blauca, in the Comanche country, on the caravan route to Santa Fe. Contributed by Assistaut Surgeon H E Brown, U. S. Army. 1768. A cranium perforated by a pistol ball, which is attached. Suicide was committed by placing the muzzle of the a. 3. pistol in the mouth and firing backward and upward. The ball carried away a large part of the bony palate, entered the cranium at the junction of the left great wing with the body of the sphenoid bone, and passed out just above the left parietal eminence. The turbinated bones and inner wall of the left orbit are comminuted by the force ol the explosion and in great part removed, and a fissure of both tables passes from the right frontal eminence through the bodies of the ethmoid and sphenoid bones. There are two fissures of the petrous portion of the left temporal, and a fissure extends from the anterior root of the zygoma to the sagittal suture, including in its course the wound of exit. At the wound of exit the outer table is more broken than the inner. Death was almost instantaneous; the ball was found under the scalp. " Private C. B., "A," 1st District of Columbia Cavalry: committed suicide from intemperance, while on a scout in Virginia, 7th November, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon M. K. Hogan, II. S. Vols. 830. A skull traversed by a musket ball, which has entered at the centre of the left branch of the coronal suture and a. 4. passed out at the posterior inferior angle of the right parietal bone, the opening of entrance being three-fourths of an inch and that of exit one and one-fourth inches in diameter. There is fracture of the right orbital plate of the frontal, of the squamous portion of the right temporal, and of the body of the right superior maxilla, probably by contre-coup. A fracture of the occipital bone extends from the opening of exit to the right jugular foramen. Contributed by Surgeon Jerome B. Green. See A'.