XI. CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 224 1743. The iliac portion of the left acetabulum and adjacent bone, with a conoidal ball which has contused the internal a. 3. surface of the ilium just below and behind the anterior inferior spinous process. Sergeant W. L., "D," 10th New York Cavalry, 25: Bristoe Station, Va., 14th October; admitted hospital, Alexandria, 15th; died from pya?mia, 2Jst October, 1863. Contributed by Surgeon Edwin Beutley, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 819. A portion of the right ischium, showing a round ball, which entered the groin near the femoral artery, firmly a. 4. embedded in the tuberosity. A small fragment of bone just above the missile, and against which it appears to have first impinged, is necrosed. The ischium is not completely fractured, but the region of lodgement is much splintered. Private W. L., " E," 23d North Carolina, (Rebel,) 24: South Mountain, 14th September; died while under the influence of chloroform, Frederick, 28th October, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Redfern Davies. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 3819. A portion of the right pubes, exhibiting a carious condition of the horizontal ramus after partial fracture by a. 5. gunshot. Private D. L., "F," 23d Ohio: admitted hospital, Frederick, 29th August; died from pyaemia, 20th September, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon R. W. Mansfield. 1012. The right ischium and pubes. The inner face of the ischium above the tuberosity and below the acetabulum is a. 6. gouged by the passage of a conoidal ball which entered the right groin three inches from the spine of the pubes, passed through the obturator foramen and emerged from the right buttock one and a half inches from the fissure of the nates. The fractured surface is carious ; the outer border has a slight osseous deposit upon it. Private M. L., "K," 18th Wisconsin: Corinth, Miss., 3d October; admitted hospital, St. Louis, 30th November; died from pyaemia, 22d December, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, U. S. Vols. 3751. A portion of the right pubes, showing a deeply grooved fracture of the horizontal ramus from a conoidal bullet a. 7. that entered two inches to the left of the coccyx and emerged two inches above the pubes and to the right of the median line. Fjcees and urine escaped from the wound of exit. Sergeant H. B., "K," 5th Minnesota, 21: wounded and admitted hospital, Nashville, 16th December; died, 29th December, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. C. May. See 3752, XX. A. b. a. 18. 1212. The left pubes and ischium. A bullet struck the pubes just externally to the symphysis, at the junction of the a. 8. rami, contusing and slightly grooving the bone, and then, passing across the obturator foramen, partially fractured the body of the ischium on its internal border just below the acetabulum and escaped in the gluteal space. A fissure extends across the lower segment of the acetabulum The fractured bone is somewhat necrosed. Private F. G., "K," 105th Pennsylvania, 28: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 9th; died, 21st May, 1863. There was no peritonitis. Contributed by Surgeon O. A. Judson, U. S. Vols. See class XII. A. B. a. 882. The left ischium. On the outer surface of the tuberosity, and embracing half its thickness, is a circular portion a. 9. of necrosed bone with a clearly defined line of separation having a diameter of one and three-fourths inches, the evident result of contusion. Possibly the case of Private C. W. M., "B," 14th North Carolina, (Rebel,) 21 : bullet entered the cleft of the nates one inch above the amis, grazed the tuber ischii and ploughed through the great trochanter, splitting off the the head and neck of the femur, Antietaui, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 29th September; died, 17th October, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon R. F. Weir, U. S. Army. 934. The left os innominatum and upper portions of the femur. A conoidal ball entered between the anterior spinous a. 10. processes of the ilium and escaped just exteriorly to the lowest third of the sacrum. The exterior surface of the ilium, one inch above the acetabulum, is grooved by the bullet. The walls of its track are thickened by new bone, but interiorly a sinus has perforated the bone nearly three inches and has opened by ulceration the fundus of the acetabulum. Private J. D., "G," 51st New York: Autietam, 17th September; admitted hospital, Frederick, 2d October; convalesced sufficiently to walk about until after receiving a severe fall, 14th December; died, 24th December, 1862. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon Win. Notsou, U. S. Army. See class XII. A. B. e.