XXIX. MISCELLANEOUS. 1900. A wounded Enfield rifle from the battle field of Gettysburg. The stock has been carried away by a missile opposite the rear sight, and the under surface of the barrel is bruised near by. The stock is also fractured higher up. The rammer, partly withdrawn, is held bent. Contributed by Brigadier General George D. Eamsay, Chief of Ordnance, U. S. Army. 1902. A wounded Harper's Ferry musket from the battle field of Gettysburg. The barrel is pierced in two places near the upper bands, as if by fragments of shell, and the muzzle is a little torn. The stock is somewhat splintered in its upper part. The piece bears the private mark J. M. U. on the breech. Contributed by Brigadier General George D. Ramsay, Chief of Ordnance, U. S. Army. 1818. A wounded Springfield rifled-nmsket from the battle field of Gettysburg. A leaden ball has carried away the upper extremity of the stock and is embedded in the barrel, which is compressed, slightly raptured, and moderately deflected. The piece bears the private mark W. on the stock near the lock. Contributed by Brigadier General George D. Eamsay, Chief of Ordnance, U. S. Army. 4691. A right boot, showing the wounds of entrance and exit of a bullet passing nearly transversely through the middle of the foot. Captain D. C, "D," 122d New York: near Fort Stevens, (Washington), 12th July, 1864. 4682. A rude crutch, made from a forked branch by a wounded soldier on the Wilderness battle field and brought by him to Douglas U. S. Army General Hospital, Washington. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. 4690. A rudely fashioned strap, two inches wide, made of army cloth and fastened with two buckles, which was successfully used by a malingerer to induce atrophy of the right leg. Private Ira A. Davidson, "E," 13th Connecticut: at Knight U. S. Army General Hospital, New Haven, Conn. Contributed by Surgeon P. A. Jewett, U. S. Vols. 4683. A fragment of wood from the wreck of the rebel iron-clad steamer Merrimac. 4686. Eighteen grizzly bears' claws, from the Navajo Indians. 4688. A necklace of twenty-one finger nails, being trophies taken in battle from the Navajo Indians and ornamented with bead-work and worn by the Utes. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. Army. 4687. An Apache necklace of twenty-nine finger nails, from trophies taken in battle, ornamented with bead-work. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. Army. 4685. The scalp of a Navajo, being the trophy of a Ute Indian. This specimen is a very fine one. The hair is two feet long and very thick. The scalp is ornamented with beads for six inches square. Contributed by Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. Army. 4689. A Navajo necklace of the lower jaw and teeth, ornamented with bead-work, taken from enemies slain in battle. 4684. Two pairs of Sioux moccasons, ornamented with red, white and green beads. 4696. A part of the upper extremity of the right femur, encrusted with a fossilizing stone-like material to the thickness of an eighth of an inch. The head and part of the neck are wanting, at the place of whose fracture the structure of the bone, which is apparently from an old subject and is certainly an ancient specimen, is seen. From a cave in Lower California. Contributor and history unknown. 2543. One foot of submarine telegraph cable. It is made of copper wire, coated with gutta-percha, cased in tarred rope and spirally wrapped with twelve strands of iron wire in one layer. Believed to have been laid by the Rebels between forts Gregg and Sumter and Charleston, and to have been contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon H. K. Neff. For other illustrations, see 302, XXII. B. A. c. 3. 80