XXIV. 528 CATALOGUE OF TIIE SURGICAL SECTION B. Doubtful. [ A' Opened Upon. IB. Not Operated Upon. A. Operated Upon. 2003. A fibrous tumor, two inches in diameter, involving the right parotid gland, which is believed to have been removed A. 1. entire in the extirpation of this body. Private M. S., "D," 66th Ohio: admitted hospital, near Alexandria, 6th August; removed by Surgeon D. P. Smith, U. S. Vols., 22d October, 1863 ; transferred to Veteran Reserve Corps, 1st February, 1864. Contributed by the operator. 18 10. An oblate double-lobed tumor, two by three and a half inches after hardening in alcohol, which was removed from A. 2. the breast of a substitute by an elliptical incision, including the nipple. Received, without history, from Acting Assistant Surgeon Stillwell. 676. A fibro-cartilaginous tumor, two by three inches, removed from the right nipple by oval incisions. A. 3. Private L. R., 3d New York Provisional Cavalry: tumor one inch in diameter, noticed November, 1863; excised by Surgeon J. M. Homiston, 3d New York Provisional Cavalry, 25th January, 1865; wound healed by the first intention ; no return of the disease, 16th August, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 2804. A flattened tumor, four and a half inches in its greatest diameter in its hardened condition in alcohol, removed A. 4. from the anterior and right [left] side of the neck, where it lay upon the bodies of the cervical vertebrae. In its recent state the tumor was the size of a child's head a year old. " The trachea and oesophagus lay on the right side of the neck, embedded among the enlarged glands. The carotid artery on the left side was greatly dislocated, being pushed backwards and outwards so as to be seen and felt pulsating behind the line of the left ear." Mr. S., (civilian,) 57: near Murfreesboro', Tenn.; tumor of thirty years' growth, increasing more rapidly the last fifteen years ; "pale and feeble, had been unable to take nourishment and his breathing had become very much impeded for several days;" the large tumor and several smaller ones removed, at the patient's urgent request, by Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vols.; "lost very little blood, but did not seem to bear the chloroform well; in fact it was necessary to get up the influence several times ; respiration actually ceased for some seconds during the operation. He seemed to rally well." * * * "He lost strength and died eight hours after the operation, 10th March, 1863." Contributed by the operator. 3119. A somewhat flattened fibrous tumor, about three inches in diameter when recent, of twenty-five years' standing, A. 5. removed from the inner aspect of the right thigh just above the knee. During the last three years only it occasioned some pain. M. S., (colored woman,) 50: removed by Brevet Lieutenant Colonel R. Reyburn, Surgeon, U. S. Vols., Washington, 20th March, 1867. Contributed by the operator. B. Not Operated Upon. 3317. A wet preparation of integument, understood to be from the abdominal parietes, with an egg-shaped tumor nearly B. 1. two inches in length attached. Contributor and history unknown.