OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 7 A. A. c. Secondarily Fatal without an Operation. 1393. A segment of the cranium, slightly contused by a musket ball near the centre of the upper border of the C. 1. frontal bone. Death occurred on the nineteenth day. The outer table is slightly discolored and cribriform, and the diploe is a little more spongy than is natural. When recent the diploe was of a dark yellowish gray color, as in cases of osteo-myelitis. Musician E. A. C, " K," 44th New York: Cold Harbor, 3d June; admitted hospital, Washington ; died, 22d June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. Allen, U. S. Army. 393. The vault of the cranium, contused by a musket ball one inch externally to the right of the frontal erai- c. 2. nence, with a fissure one inch in length running downward. There is stellate Assuring of the inner table with slight depression, the longest fissure being two inches in length. Two small wart-like exostoses exist near the centre of the frontal bone, one on either side of the groove for the longitudinal sinus. Private H. L. L., "A," 35th Massachusetts: South Mountain, 14th September; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 20th September; died of meningitis, 9th October, 1862. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. II. Currey. See class I. D. B. 613. The vertex of the cranium, showing incipient caries and necrosis of the outer table of the right parietal C. 3. bone above and behind the protuberance, twenty-two days after contusion by a musket ball. The scale of bone around which the line of demarcation has formed is elliptical in shape, measuring one inch by one and a half. The inner table presents no pathological appearance. Private C. K., "K," 130th Pennsylvania: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Baltimore, 20th Decem- ber, 1862; died from tetanus, 4th January, 1863. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon D. C. Peters, U. S. Army. See 614, I. C. b. b. 3. 1660. The body of the frontal bone, showing a contusion from a conoidal ball just above and external to the right c. 4. frontal eminence, which resulted in death after twenty-seven days. The injured portion of the external table is porous and spongy, and a small scale of bone is in process of exfoliation. The internal table gives no trace of injury beyond the most trivial discoloration. Private H. A. C, "K," 13th Massachusetts: Gettysburg, 3d July; died from meningitis, Fort Schuyler, N. Y. Harbor, 30th July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. E. M. Purdy. 3406. A portion of the right parietal bone, exhibiting a delicate right-angled fissure of the inner table, with no C. 5. appreciable injury of the external surface. One branch of the fissure is one and a half inches in length and nearly parallel with the sagittal suture, below the anterior third of which it lies about one inch. The other branch is one inch long. Near the angle of the fissure the inner plate is very slightly depressed. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. C. Byrne, U. S. Army. 1568. A section of the cranium, showing a de- C. 6. pressed fracture of the internal table of the left parietal near the middle of the sagittal suture, with no more appreciable injury to the external surface than a slight discoloration. The fractured portion measures one and one-fourth inches by three- fourths of an inch, is composed of three triangular pieces, and is depressed two lines. The missile is believed to have been a musket ball. See figures 3 and 4. Private D. P., "C," 35th Wisconsin: Tupelo, Miss., 18th July; admitted hospital, Memphis, 23d; died from meningitis, 27th July, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. W. Coule. See 4628, XXVI. A. 2, 94. 2'S'<1'7. The vault of the cranium, contused by a conoidal ball just over the left frontal protuberance. Externally C. 7. the bone is discolored and spongy, and internally it is discolored over a square inch of surface. A simple fissure one inch in length appears on the inner table. Private J. M. B., "D," 17th Virginia, (Rebel,) 17: Spottsylvania Court-house, 12th May; admitted hospital, Phila- delphia, 20th May; died of meningitis, 8th June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon C. P. Tutt.