144 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION VII. 2668. The bones of the left elbow. The humerus is fractured nearly transversely about two inches above the condyles ; b. 6. thence a perpendicular fracture extends downward into the articulation, and an oblique fissure on the anterior surface to the outer condyle ; an oblique fracture on the anterior surface extends about one inch above the transverse fracture; the posterior portion of the shaft above, the articulation is comminuted and wanting. The missile appears to have impinged against the inner border of the bone one inch above the condyle. Received after Chancellorsville. 2634. The bones of the left elbow. An oblique fracture extends across the shaft two inches above the condyles; from b. 7. this a perpendicular fracture passes down directly through the trochlea; midway, a transverse fracture divides the outer half; and, posteriorly, comminuted portions are wanting. Received after Chancellorsville. 3511. The extremity ^of the right humerus, perforated through the olecranon depression. The trochlea is fractured b. 8. through the middle, and both condyles are split off, although retained in position. Contributed by Surgeon J. H. Briuton, U. S. Vols. 3196. The bones of the left elbow. The humerus is comminuted above the condyles and wanting on the posterior b. 9. surface ; a complete fracture extends through the trochlea. Received from the Army of the Potomac. lOO. The bones of the right elbow. A conoidal ball, which is attached, battered, has struck the ulna from the left and b. 10. rear, has destroyed the olecranon, split the coronoid process by a fracture running through it, and created a nearly complete oblique fracture for two inches of the shaft. The inner condyle is destroyed and the humerus comminuted for nearly three inches. Contributed by Surgeon J. H. Brinton, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. B. d. 4017. The bones of the right elbow. The outer condyle and radial articulation of the humerus, the olecranon, and b. 11. the posterior portion of the upper extremity of the ulna have been carried away. The ulna is obliquely fractured about two inches from its extremity. Received from Ninth Corps Hospital. HO. The bones of the left elbow. A conoidal ball, which is attached, partially flattened, entered from without, b. 12. destroyed the outer condyle and the radial portion of the trochlea, and fractured the shaft so as to split off the remainder of the epiphysis. Another fracture extends obliquely up the humerus, crossing it three and a half inches from the extremity. The bones of the forearm are uninjured. A fragment of cartridge-paper is still held in the cup of the bail. Contributed by Surgeon J. H. Brinton, U. S. Vols. See class XXVII. B. n. d. 2688. The bones of the right elbow. A bullet, which appears to have passed antero-posteriorly through the joint, has b. 13. shattered the ulnar processes and split the humerus for two inches. Contributor and history unknown. 2653. The lower half of the left humerus and upper portions of the bones of the forearm. A ball which has passed b. 14. through the coronoid depression, shattering the articulation, has obliquely fractured the shaft for four inches. Received after Chancellorsville. 3519. The lower extremity of the right humerus, shattered by a round ball. The epiphyses are broken from the shaft, b. 15. two complete fractures extend through the trochlea, an oblique fracture extends up the diaphysis, which is irreg- ularly fractured three inches above the articulation, and one square inch of bone is wanting from the olecranon fossa. The specimen illustrates how great injury may be inflicted by a round ball. This bullet passed out at the middle of the arm anteriorly and wounded the thumb. A buckshot from the same charge entered the thorax near the ninth dorsal vertebra and was found under the integument in front. Private C. B., " L," 112th Pennsylvania: wounded in attempting to escape from the Provost Guard, and admitted hospital, Washington. Died in four hours. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. c. Excisions. 1378. The olecranon and a spicula of shaft of one inch. A vertical fissure extends nearly through the process. c. 1. Private J. M., "G," 91st Pennsylvania: excised two days afterward by Assistant Surgeon B. Howard, U. S. Army. Contributed by the operator.