75 A. B. OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. 286. The right scapula perforated by gunshot just below the spine in its middle third. A transverse fracture extends b. 17. across the dorsum parallel with the spine. From this a vertical fracture separates the superior anterior fourth from the remainder of the bone.' A longitudinal fracture occupies the anterior border for one inch below the chief injury, and a fissure of similar length extends parallel to the posterior border. There are traces of periosteal disturbance. Contributed by Surgeon John T. Hodgeu, U. S. Vols. 699. Both scapulae fractured by the same missile. A conoidal bullet entered the right shoulder over the head of the b. 18. humerus, of which it split off a fragment, shattered the neck and fractured the acromion and coracoid processes, destroyed the supra-spinous and fissured the infra-spinous fossae, carried fragments of bone into the lung, fractured the spinous and transverse processes of the second and third dorsal vertebrae, passed through the left scapula at the base of its spine, and escaped through the deltoid. Periosteal inflammation has occurred on both surfaces at each seat of injury. Private J. S. L , "G," 18th Massachusetts, 18: date of wound not reported; died, Philadelphia, 17th September, 1862. Contributed by Surgeon P. B. Goddard, U. S. Vols. See 843, III. A. b. a. 4. 3376* The first rib of the right side transversely fractured at its middle by a conoidal ball The under surface is b. 19. somewhat splintered The anterior portion was pressed into the apex of the lung, and a spicula from the posterior perforated the subclavian artery. There are traces of periosteal disturbance on both surfaces of the anterior portion. Private J. J. F., "A," 122d New York: Winchester, 19th September; died, from secondary haemorrhage, 5th October, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon M. Leon Hammond. 3291. The eleventh rib of the right side perforated' in its anterior third by a small missile which passed transversely b. 20. through the anterior portion of the body of the third lumbar vertebra. The greater splintering of the inner surface is well marked in this specimen. This specimen properly belongs to class IV. A. A. b. Private W. B., "I," 6th Pennsylvania Cavalry: Brandy Station, Va., 1st August, 1863; died while being carried to hospital, Washington. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. Thomson, U. S. Army. See 1647, III. A. a. a 1; 1646, XX. A. a. a. 4. 3843. The anterior third of the sixth rib of the left side fractured near the costal extremity by a conoidal ball which b. 21. lodged in the lung. The fractured extremities are necrosed, and a slight ossific deposit has occurred on the internal surface. Private W. P. B., "I," 8th New York Cavalry, 36: wounded at the same time in the right leg, which was amputated, Fuukstown, Md., 5th July; admitted hospital, Frederick, 20th ; died, 22d July, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Skinner. 2785. A part of the third rib on the right side fractured about three inches from its sternal extremity by a conoidal b. 22. ball which had passed through the lowest third of the right radius, struck the breast one inch below the right clavicle and two inches from its sternal extremity, and was cut out near the apex of the right scapula. No inconvenience in the thoracic wound existed for six weeks. There is loss of substance ou the outer surface with necrosis of the fractured extremities, but on the internal surface there is a slight new deposit. Private H. C. W., "G," 3d Maine, 26: Gettysburg, 2d July; admitted hospital, Philadelphia, 13th; commenced sloughing, 30th July; complained of pain suddenly, 14th August; died, 16th August, 1863. There was no repair iu the forearm. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Wm. V. Keating. 2423. A portion of the >'ight rib obliquely fractured on its external surface, with the loss of two inches from its b. 23. internal surface, which was driven into and embedded in the left lung. Slight periosteal disturbance may be traced on the internal surface; but there is no osseous deposit near the fracture, the immediate extremities of which are necrosed. Private H. H., "B," 1st Maine Heavy Artillery: Wilderness, 6th May; died, Washington, 3d June, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. Army. See 2424, XIX. A. B. a. 20; 2425, XX. A. B. a. 7. 877. The anterior half of one of the ribs from the right side, fractured near its costal extremity. The fragments have b. 24. consolidated, chiefly by cartilaginous formation. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Joseph Leidy.