f>G6 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION XXV. which was covered dp by paring their edges and adjusting them over it. The parts were supported by closely placed sutures, four of which were twisted. No adhesive straps were used. The operation was performed under ether. The reconstructed mouth permitted the saliva to be retained, afforded some improvement in articulation and added greatly to the appearance. Private W. S., "I," New York Heavy Artillery, 20: Petersburg, 25th March; operated upon by Dr. Gurdon Buck, New York, 7th November; healed and returned home, 12th December, 1865. Coutributed by the operator. See 2693, XXV. A. ii. c. 7. See class II. A. B. c. d. Other Operations. 3C75. A cast of the left thigh and leg. A number of cicatrices attest the removal of a bullet from the head of the tibia d. 1. and free incisions to relieve cellulitis. Private P. L., "F," 2d U. S. Infantry, 37 : bullet entered head of tibia, not involving the articulation, Chancellors- ville, 3d May; removed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Sylvester Teats, New York, September; cellulitis and pysemic symptoms treated by free incisions, bandages and stimulants, November, 1863; discharged with joint slightly flexed and anchylosed, 4 th February, 1865. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon J. W. S. Gouley, U. S. Army. 4033. Two casts, representing a dislocation of the head of the left femur into the ischiatic notch from disorganization d. 2. by an abscess and its reduction. The first shows the condition of the hip eight months after the luxation, and the second the condition of the reduced parts. Lieutenant Colonel W. A. B., 3d Kentucky, 24: twice wounded, Rocky Face Ridge, Ga., 9th May, 1864; one ball entered five inches above the left anterior superior spinous process and did not emerge; the second entered between the seventh aud eighth ribs on the right side and emerged two inches nearer the spine aud four inches below that point; two attacks of erysipelas, covering the body, aud one of dysentery occurred during the summer; a very large abscess was opened in the left iliac region in August; the head of the femur was dislocated while turning in bed, October ; three weeks afterward an attempt at reduction under ether failed ; an attempt under chloroform failed at Louisville, February, 1865; successfully reduced, by manipulation under chloroform, by Professor Lewis A. Sayre, New York, June, 1865. The limb was supported in its proper position by an instrument devised for the purpose, and by its aid walking was practicable in a few months. See interesting illustrated MS. history. Contributed by the operator. T), Not after Gunshot. a. Head and neck. b. I'pper extremities. c. Trunk. d. Lower extremities. a. Head and Neck. 1419. A plaster cast of a varicose aneurism of the right side of the neck of thirty years' standing. This man was a. 1. wounded, by a small narrow chisel, ou the anterior face of the cartilaginous meatus behind the tragus, the direction apparently having been downward, inward and forward. There was little haemorrhage, but the neck became prodigiously swollen, the tumefaction remaining for six or eight mouths. The cast represents a (pulsating) tumor three inches in its long (vertical) diameter covered by and attached to an attenuated integument; behind this is another tumor merging imperceptibly into the former, lifting the tragus and lobule, aud traceable into a greatly distended external jugular vein, fully an inch and a quarter in width, which, running forward; makes a sharp turn backward in the middle of the neck and. increased in size, dips downward behind the steruo-cleido-mastoid to empty itself into a conspicuously swollen subclavian vein. The temporal veins were much dilated, while the veins of the upper extremity are but little affected. To the finger the first- mentioned tumor gave evidence of possessing a firm capsule ou its outer aud posterior side. To the ear was given a strong thrill and a loud humming bruit which swelled and subsided with tin- cardiac systole and diastole. The thrill was met with at the begining but not in the course of the jugular. It is presumed the instrument penetrated the temporo-maxillary vein