XI. BONES OF THE PELVIS. .A.i Gunshot Injuries. AC a. Contusions and partial fractures. . Primary Conditions. I b. Complete fractures. i C. Operated upon. b. Complete Fractures. 2869. The bones of the pelvis showing a perforation of the right ilium just above the ischiatic notch. The missile was b. 1. probably fired at short range. The wound of the outer table is perfectly smooth and appears to have been made by a .54 bullet; the inner table is broken over the space of two inches square There is a fracture of the anterior superior spinous process of the left ilium, but whether occasioned by the escaping bullet or due to exposure after death is undetermined. From the skeleton of a white person who was murdered in the Sioux Massacre, in Minnesota, in 1862, found on the prairie four miles from Fort Ridgely, Minn., June, 1864. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Alfred Muller. For other illustrations, see 3810, III. A. A. b. 11. ■f a. Contusions and partial fractures. B| b. Complete fractures. . Secondary Conditions. < c. Operated upon. | d. Secondarily fatal without operation. ^ e. Sequestra. a. Contusions and Partial Fractures. 3401. The right ischium, showing a partial fracture of the external surface of the body just above the tuberosity, a. 1. The greater trochanter of the right femur was also fractured by the bullet which passed through the glutaei of both sides. Private T. C, "I," 27th Pennsylvania: Mission Ridge, Tenn., 25th November, 1863; died near Chattanooga, 28th February, 1864. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon John D. Johnson, U. S. Vols. 987. A portion of the left ischium, contused and carious on its inferior posterior surface from the passage of a a. 2. conoidal ball which entered at the sacro-iliac symphysis, passed through the glutaei muscles on the dorsum ilii and was removed from the perineum within an inch of the anus. Private J. B., "F," 131st Pennsylvania, 29: Fredericksburg, 13th December; admitted hospital, Washington, 18th December, 1862. Died from haemorrhage and profuse suppuration. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. A. Harvey.