I. 6 CATALOGUE OF THE SURGICAL SECTION 1199. The vault of the cranium, trephined for disease of the frontal bone following contusion by a musket ball. An b. 5. abscess in the anterior lobe of the left cerebral hemisphere was evacuated through the perforation. The removed disc is in situ. The internal table is cribriform and carious for six square inches surrounding the opening, for which space the compact layer is almost ntirely removed. The outer table is porous and discolored to a slight degree. Private S. A., "A," 50th Georgia (Eebel): Antietam, 17th September; trephined, Philadelphia, llth October, J862; died the same day. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Morehouse. 625. A section of the frontal bone, trephined for a partial fracture with depression of the inner table. The b. 6. opening is to the right of the upper part of the frontal suture, which is well marked. A fragment of the inner table, measuring three-fourths by one inch and depressed one-half a line, remains in situ. Contributed by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. 1ยง71. The vault of the cranium, trephined above and within the right frontal eminence for fracture with depression b. 7. of the inner table. The disc cut by the trephine is removed, and with it all trace of fracture of the outer table; two small fragments of the inner table remain attached, slightly depressed at their free edges. Externally there is slight caries, with exfoliation of the superficial lamella of bone, over a surface extending from the supra-orbital ridges to the centre of the sagittal suture, involving nearly the whole of the frontal and the upper borders of both parietal bones. Internally the entire surface of the frontal and the anterior half of the right parietal show traces of diseased action, with slight ossitic deposit around the edge of the opening made by the trephine. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Joseph Leidy. 1310. The vault of the cranium, partially trephined for fracture with depression of the frontal and left parietal b. 8. bones at their junction and one inch from the median line, caused by a musket ball. The outer table and the diploe have been penetrated by the trephine, and the disc of bone, with a fragment of the outer table, has been removed. There is a stellate fracture and Assuring of the internal table, with depression of the sharp edges of the fragments to the depth of one line. The frontal suture is open. Corporal G. H. S., "C," 18th Massachusetts: Chancellorsville, 3d May; admitted hospital, Washington, 9th; operation of trephining commenced but suspended, as no depression of the inner table was discovered; died, 17th May, 1863. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon Alfred Edelin. 4344. A segment of the cranium, with two partial discs and one fragment of b. 9. bone removed by trephining, for the relief of fracture with depression of the inner table, the outer table being contused. The sections made by the trephine intersect each other. The surrounding bone is cribriform and slightly carious. When the trephine passed the outer table pus escaped from the diploe. An abscess had formed in the brain before the operation. See figure 1. Private D. S., "E," 2d Virginia Cavalry, (Rebel,) 21: Appomattox Court-house, 9th April; admitted hospital, Washington, 19th; trephined by Surgeon R. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols., 26th; died, 27th April, 1865. Contributed by the operator. 1359. The vault of the cranium, trephined just in front of the coronal suture and one inch to the left b. 10. line. Two discs intersecting each other have been removed, the opening measuring one and one by three-fourths of an inch. There is a slight stellate Assuring of the inner table. Without a history, from Gettysburg. of the median -fourth inches 2000. A section of cranium, with five discs and one fragment re- b. 11. moved by the trephine from the anterior inferior angle of the right parietal and the corresponding portion of the frontal bones, for a contused wound. The opening left by the operation is trowel-shaped, crosses the coronal suture, and measures three inches from behind forward, and one and one-half inches from right to left. See figure 2. Private J R., "E," 151st New York: Mine Run, Va., 27th November; trephined, on account of convulsions, by Surgeon D. P. Smith, U. S. FlG'trva,^ Vols., Alexandria, 13th December, 1863. Death followed in twelve hours. The removed bone was infiltrated with pus, and the dura mater was uninjured Contributed by the operator. See 4627, XXVI. A. 1, 22. Q0U For other illustrations, sec 3452, I. A.