CASES IN SURGERY. By JAMES SPENCE, Surgeon. FROM THK MONTHLY .lOUKNAL OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, FOR FEBRUARY 1848. Case I.—Case of Ligature of the Axillary Artery for Hemorrhage resulting from a Burn of the Arm. David Henderson, ast. nine years, met with a severe burn of his left arm, on the 20th December 1845, owing to his clothes taking fire. In the absence of Mr Kerr, the usual medical attendant of the family, another medical gentleman dressed the wound with cotton wadding ; but owuig to the offensive smell of the discharge, and to see the full extent of the injury, ^Ir Kerr removed this after some days. He then found that the true skui was very severely injm-ed, and that the bmni extended from the lower part of the axilla to near the hand, and in the upper arm was chiefly situated towards the inner side. Stimulating applications and poultices were now used, and in a short time sloughs separated from the injured surface above and below the bend of the arm, and the sore healed kindly enough at several points. At the bend of the arm, the sloughs were very deep and long in separating, and Mr Kerr watched their separation with considerable anxiety for fear of hemorrhage taking place. On the evening of the 6th of January 1846, a portion of slough came away, and was followed by considerable loss of blood. Mr Kerr and Dr Duncan saw the boy shortly after this, and as the bleeding was then evidently venous, they arrested it by bandagmg from the fingers upwards, and placing a graduated compress over the bleeding point. This completely arrested it until the evening of the 8th Januaiy, when a deeper portion of slough separating, sud- den and profuse hemorrhage took place ; Mr Kerr attended almost immediately, and seeing tlie bleeding was now arterial, arrested it EDINBUROH: SUTHERLAJJT> and KNOX, 08, PBINCB8 STREET.2 MR SPENCE'S cases IN SURGERY, by compressing tlie humeral till I arrived, but the child had alread}- lost a very lar^e quantity of blood. On examining the ai-ni, the whole extent ot the hmh, from the lower margin of the axilla to the hand, exhibited the effects of the bum, being raw and discharging freely. On removing a piece of lint from over the bend of the arm, a deep cavity was exposed, and at the bottom of it the brachial artery- was seen, with a small oval opening in its anterior wall; when the pressure on the brachial was relaxed, a jet of blood came from this opening, so as to leave no doubt as to the source of the hemorrhage. From the appearance of the opened vessel, and the slouglimg state of the surrounding parts, I considered it improper to trust to liga- ture immediately above and below the opening; whilst the state of the arm, together with the impaired vitahty of the skin and other tissues, rendered ligature of the brachial in the middle, or higher in the arm, equally unadvisable. I therefore determined to tie the ax- illary in the third portion of its course, where it lies on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi; with this view the ai*m was separated from the side, and extended as far as could be done under the circumstances. I made an incision about 2^ inches long, commencing about an inch and a half within the anterior margin of the axilla, and earned down along the inner edge of the coraco-brachiahs; the fascia was divided to the same extent, and the plexus of nerves brought into view. I next carefully separated the median and internal cutaneous nerves, which exposed the vessel, and, after careftJly cleaning it, passed a ligature round it and tied it. There was a good deal of troublesome oozing of blood during the dissection, owing to the raw and vascular state of the skin at the lower part of the incision, and considerable delay and annoyance were caused by the unmanageable state of the patient (who, I should have mentioned, was deaf, dumb, idiotic, and epileptic). At the commencement of the operation, he thought proper to amuse himself by blowing out the candle, and when I was about to pass the ligatm-e round the artery, he took an epileptic fit. After the vessel was tied, the edges of the upper part of the womid were brought together by points of sutm-e, and the ligature allowed to hang out at the lower part. After waiting a short time, slight bleeding was noticed to take place from the lower part of the open- ing in tlie brachial artery; I therefore placed ligatm-es above and below the opening, as compresses seemed to give rise to much irrita- tion, and as I trusted there might be sufficient vitality of the coats of the vessel there to sustain the Hgatures for a day or two till more pennanent changes at the part, and in the collateral cu'culation,^ had taken place. The burnecl sm-face was then dressed vnth. a stinui- lating lotion. Next day I found that the patient had passed a very restless night, constantly moving the injured arm, but no ftu'ther bleeding had taken place. On tlie evening of the 11th January, the ligatures above and below tlie oi)ening"in the brachial artery came away, butME SPENCE'S cases IN SURGERY. 3 no more hemoiThage took place. The ulcerated sui-face at the bend of the arm healed £ndly. The edges of my incision at the lower part, where it had reached the injured skin, looked sloughy ; but the upper part of the incision, con-esponding to the point where the vessel was tied, had united, and I removed the stitches. As the patient still continued restless and unmanageable, constantly moving the arm and ^ disturbing the dressings, it was found necessary to muffle the opposite hand and se- cm-e the injm'ed ann towards the side. The sloughy appearance of the lower part of the incision increased for some days, and gave me some anxiety; stimulating dressings were appKed to it, and, on the ninth day after the operation, a slough separated which reHeved our fears, as it was found not to extend deeper than the skin, and the parts beneath were healthy in appearance; from tliis time every thing went on well in spite of the unfavourable nature of the case, and the unmanageable state of the patient. The hgatm'e from the axillary came away on the sixteenth day after the operation, and the incision healed rapidly. After this I did not attend him, but Mr Kerr informs me that cicatrization of the whole surface was not effected until the end of February, and that now the contraction of the hand and fore-arm towards the shoul- der is veiy great. He also mentions that, strangely enough, the first time the boy was left alone he ran to the fire-place (fortunately empty), and thrust his injm^ed arm between the bars of the grate. Remarks.—In this case it will be observed, that whilst the injured vessel was situated (as regarded retrograde bleeding) much in the same circumstances as an artery woimded by a cutting instrument, it differed fi'om it in tliis material point, that the vitality of its coats was impaired, and partook in the weakened action of the surrounding parts fi'om the effects of the bum; so that I could not have trusted to ligatm'e above and below the openmg, because the action of the hga- ture on tlie vessel would have proceeded too rapidly, and the impulse of the circulation would, in all probabiUty, have caused secondary hemorrhage in a day or two, on the decidence of the hgature. On the other hand, ligature of the arterial trunk higher up, whilst it arrested the flow of blood immediately from the upper part of the vessel, would not have sufficed to arrest the retrograde bleeding; and hence I adopted the practice of tying the main trunk high up, where it was healthy, and situated amongst healthy parts, to divert the impulse of the blood from the canal of the wounded vessel; whilst the ligatures ) above and below the opening at the bend of the arm, prevented the ;i retrograde bleeding sufficiently long to allow of consolidation of the surrounding textures, and permanent obliteration of the vessel at j that point, and also by avoiding the necessity for bandaging and i compresses; the necessary dressings to the general burned sui'face i were not interfered with. Of course, the nature of tlie agent causing4 MR SPENCE'S cases in SURGERY. the sloui^Hiing must be taken into consideration, as this may mate- rially influence the line of practice. Whilst writing out these remarks, I was called to a young gentle- man in the country, who, by applying nitrate of silver over the com-se of the radial artery, had opened that vessel; the eschar separated wliilst he was out shooting, and he had lost a very large quantity of blood. In this case I merely cut down upon, and tied the vessel a short distance above and below the wounded point; because I knew that the adjacent structures, after the separation of an eschar caused by nitrate of silver, are generally in a state of healthy action, and not in that condition of impaired vitahty which characterises the tissues implicated in a severe biu-n by fire. Case 2.—Amputation of Arm for the secondary effects of a Burn. I was consulted by ]\Ir Falconer of Loanhead, in the case of a patient of his, a girl aged eleven years, whose health was sinking under the secondary effects of a bmii. About two years previously she had been very severely burnt in the arm whilst playing near the fire. She recovered from the first effects of the injmy, although mth great contraction of the wrist and elbow. After the burned sm'face had appai'ently healed for some weeks, the newly-formed skin gave way at several points, and a discharge took place fi'om the ulcerated sm-face. Various remedies were had recoiu'se to for the pm'pose of checking the discharge, and promoting the cicatrization of the parts, but all had ultimately failed. The ulceration had increased rapidly, and the patient's health had gradually sunk under the long-continued discharge and irritation. When I first saw her, she was apparently in the last stage of hectic, and worn almost to a skeleton, with rapid weak pulse. The injm'ed arm, from the wrist to the middle of the upper aiun, presented an almost continuous ulcerated smface, which was dis- charging profusely, and so irritable, that she screamed out whenever the dres'sings were touched. Over the posterior pai't of the elbow, there was a cicatrix, corresponding to the position of the ulnar nen^e, between the olecranon and inner condyle, which, she stated fi'equently, gave her excruciating pain; her mother stated, that she seldom slept at night, and when she did, was bathed in perspiration, and that her appetite had latterly almost entirely failed. Under these cu'ciunstances, I said, that I considered amputation the only chance of saving life; and that, although she seemed so much sunk, t Avoukl still recommend it as a means of relief from her sufter- iiigs. To this, both the parents and the patient readily consented, and I accordingly amputated the arm below the insei'tion of the deltoid by double flap. The operation seemed to afford almost immediate relief from the constitutional irritation ; for she slept well the_ niglit after it was performed, which she liad not done for months previously, and the wound healed almost entirely by the first intention. As she5 MR SPENCE'S cases IN SUllGERY. resided some distance in the country, I did not see her after the first fortnight until about six weeks from the date of the amputation, when she called upon me in town perfectly, restored m health. On chssection of the amputated limb, which had been previously injected with size by my friend Mr Goodsir, the muscular tissue was found quite aUered in structure, of a pale, almost white, colom-, and scarcely showing any appearance of fibrous texture. The hganients were tliickened, and so contracted as scarcely to admit of the sHght- est motion, even after the division of the other soft parts; but the synovial membrane and articular cartilages were perfectly healthy, and presented no appearance of ulcerative absorption at any point. The ulnai' nerve was found involved, and apparently compressed, by the consoHdated tissues corresponding to the cicatrix behind the elbow. AU the deep-seated parts of the limb seemed much less vas- cular than usual, probably owing to the consoHdation of the tissues tluough which the vessels passed; but this appearance might also, in some measure, have been caused by the injection escaping more readily fi'om the open vessels of the ulcerated surfaces. Case 3.—Injury of Axillary Artery from Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus. Mr J. B , aged sixty-three, in coming down-stairs from the drawing-room, tripped on the carpet, and fell down with his whole weight on the elbow and point of shoulder. I was sent for on the part of Dr Lawrie, who attended the family, and fomid the humerus broken at the neck, the broken end of the shaft considerably displaced inwards to the axilla, and the elbow tilted outwards. Mr B was exceedingly sick and faint, having only a short time previously recovered from a severe attack of rhemnatic fever, and suffering, at the time of the accident, from bowel complaint. The fractm'e was readily adjusted, scarcely any force whatever being necessary to extend the shaft of the bone, and withcfraw it from the axilla. I put it up in the usual manner, with a soft com- press in the axilla, placing the fore-arm in a shng, and confining the arm and elbow to the side by means of a broad soft shawl. I then ordered him an opiate to an'est the diarrhoea, and left him. Next morning I saw him with Dr Lawrie; he had passed a very restless night from the bowel complaint, and also fi'om pain at the fractiu-ed part, and numbness in the hand. On loosing the bandages, the hand and fore-arm were found not much swollen, but they were much colder than those of the opposite side, and no pulsation could be felt either in the brachial, radial, or ulnar arteries at any point, but distinct and full pulsation could be felt in the axillaiy, immediately above the fracture; there was considerable ecchymosis and biniising over the point of the shoulder and deltoid, also some swelling along the inner side of the biceps, but there was no pulsatory movement in the s^^•elling, nor any appearance of its connnunicating with the6 MR SPENCE's cases IN SURGERY. ai-tery. ^ It was evident, however, that the axillaiy had suffered, that circulation through it was obstructed, and that the treatment of the fracture must be considered secondary to that of the injury of the vessel. I accordingly did not replace the pad in the axilla, but got a soft cushion made sufficiently long to reach from the axilla to the hand, jointed at the elbow, and thicker above than below. This I placed on the inside of the arm, and another soft cushion and thin pasteboard splint on the outside of the arm and fore-arm ; the elbow was kept only slightly bent, the splint and cushions secured with sHp-knots, and the whole limb covered with flannel. This plan, whilst it interfered but little with the restoration of the circulation through the collateral branches, kept the broken ends of the bone pretty well in position. I continued it for the first fifteen days; when, although I could feel no pulse in the larger vessels, I was satisfied, from the restored heat and sensation of the part, that the circulation was re-established sufficiently to allow of the ordinary apparatus being used. Accordingly, I replaced a soft elastic hair cushion in the axilla, and a leather splint, well padded, along the outside of the arm and fore-arm (from the point of shoulder to extre- mity of the fingers). The fore-arm was supported in a sling, and the arm kept to the side by a soft shawl. Under this treatment the cure went on favom-ably, except that, about the end of third week, he complained much of severe pain in the part, and of a sense of suffocation, and of a feehng of weight across the chest, which he attributed to the position of the fore-arm across the body. The sHng was lowered so as to change this posi- tion, but still the feeling continued; alterative medicine was given with some relief. As it became of great importance for him to get home to London at this time, and as the union of the bone seemed sufficiently fii'm to warrant his removal, he left Edinbiu-gh, with my consent, on the 17th of August. Since then, I received the following accounts of his progress from his usual mecHcal attendant, Dr Bower of Hatton Gai'den, and subsequently fe'om Mr Liston, to whom I had requested him to apply, but whom he had not consulted till 1st October. " As Mr B has now been under my watching more than^ a month, I am able to give you an account of his progi'ess more satis- factorily than if I had written sooner. The callus around the firac- ture is completed, and he begins to move his arm somewhat, and m time doubtless it will tm^n out all right. I cannot, however, say as much for the circulation through the fore-ami and hand. I can only distinguish a veiy faint pulsation in any arteiy beneath the fractm'e. At the wrist there is none either in the radial or ulnar, and there- fore I suppose the circulation through the hand must be by means of tlie interosseous or carpal. As you may suppose, tlie hand is not properly supplied, and much colder and more useless tlian it other-7 MR SPENCE'S cases IN SURGERY. wise would be. I liave adopted gentle friction and wann clothing to remedy this, but I expect more benefit from time than from either. " From this statement I think you will a^'ee with me, that, con- sidering the severe nature of the injury, he is doing well; and, as I dc^ not perceive any symptoms of disease or aiiemism in the brachial arteiy, I trust he will go on uninterruptedly to recovery." " Octoher 1st, 1847.—Yours, dated 17th August, only came to hand tliis morning. " Mr B 's case is a very mteresting one, and one that must have required anxious and careM management. It is a capital cure; there is pulsation in the brachial, and a certain thrill at the wrist; there is a good deal of oedematous swelHng on the inside of the arm, and in the sheath of the biceps, but I can detect nothing wrong in the axilla; no tumour, no unusual beating; so far so good. I should not apprehend any formation of aneurism now." Remarks.—The complication of fracture of the neck of the humerus, with the untoward injmy detailed in the foregoing case, is fortunately of very rare occmTence, and I cannot help attributing it, in the pre- sent instance, more to the state of the vessels in this gentleman, than to the effects of cUrect injury of the artery by the broken end of the bone ; in other words, I consider that the internal and middle coats of the vessel, softened and altered in structure by the previous rheu- matic affection, had given way, at the time of the injury, from indirect violence, whilst the cellular coat had been stretched and twisted so as to obstruct the flow of blood through its canal. I am led to this conclusion by the folloAving circumstances in the case:—1st, There was no unusual swelling or appearance of extravasation in the axilla at the time of the accident, as would have occurred had a large ves- sel been torn through by the sharp fractured end of the bone. 2d, Though the displacement of the shaft was considerable, it was not freater than I have frequently seen in fracture of the neck of the umerus, and, owing to the faintness of the patient, there was little or no force required to extend it, and produce coaptation. 3d, No false aneurism has subsequently formed, which woiild also have pro- bably been the case, had all the coats of the artery been torn by the broken end of the bone. The method of treating the fractm-e which I adopted, was had recourse to on the spur of the moment, the principal point kept in view being not to interfere with the circulation; it answerecl the urpose sufficiently well, though, I daresay, many improvements could e suggested.MURR AY AKD GlUB, rUIKTEUS, EDINBURGH.