9 pour étudier le droit a Paris ou la médecine a Montpellier: Remar- quons encore que ce subside alloué a Jehan Yperman ne figure pas au compte des salatres, mais bien a celui avec diverses personnes, et que c’est justement cette espèce de compte qui porte toutes les gratifi- cations, subsides, récompenses et autres dépenses de cette nature.” This last assertion is in direct opposition to the superscription of the roll as given by Vandenpeereboom and de Marez and de Sagher since they only speak of „payments to those who draw salaries from the town; nor does it tally with the category of expenses. Vandenpeere- boom says of it:” il indique pour cette année, les noms des serviteurs et employés salariés par la ville et le montant de leurs salaires ou „traite- ments fixes”; mais il ne fait pas connaitre les fonctions ou emplois que tous ces agents communaux exer^aient” i). The assurance, however, with which Diegerick mentions the „compte a diverses personnes”, and the name Yperman occurring on it, demand a closer investigation. I therefore applied to the connoisseur of the Yprian accounts, Mr. de Sagher, who with the greatest kindness replied as follows: „II n’y a absolument aucun compte a tenir de 1’assertion de Diege- rick disant que Jehan Yperman requt dans le courant de 1’exercice Novembre 1297 a Novembre 1298 quatre subside de 50 sols parisis chacun. Les comptes originaux que je publie, établissent a toute évidence que c’est comme fonctionaire de la ville qu’ Yperman requt le salaire de quatre fois 50 s. p.” The payments have been either at once in full, or monthly, or half-yearly, or — as was the case with Yperman and several others — in quarterly terms. And now it seems highly improbable that the muni- cipality should have paid a person, residing in Paris, a quarterly sub- sidy instead of either at the beginning or at the end of the journey. Unless one should think that the forwarding of money at that time was an easy matter or that Yperman should have presented himself each quarterday at the paymaster’s office to receive the money. But this sounds just as far-fetched. Now there remains the possibility that Yperman did not go to Paris in 1297 but in one of the following years; but even in this case there would have been no sense in a grant in quarterly payments. Besides I must remark that the amounts paid were altogether insufficiënt for a journey to Paris and a fairly long stay there 2). The accounts contain several posts of as many 1) Ypriana, IV, p. 369. 2) A „livre parisis”, l.p. or had towards the end of the i3th century