*4 The „when .... then” absolutely explains the matter and a full stop behind „died” makes the sentence quite legible. There is no question of any year of death, but simply of the year in which Yperman is said to have vvritten the Chirurgie, i. e. according to the person vvho wrote this down. lts accuracy might be doubted on the strength of the inscription on fol. 2 r of the Ghent ms. Here we read: „Cyrurgie van meester Jan Iperman int Jaer MCCC ende XXVIII.” But we notice here that the handwriting is different and evidently younger. In any case the Chirurgie cannot be older than 1305, for on p. 182, we find mentioned „den bouc of lilium medicus”, i. e. Bernardus of Gordon’s well-known work Lilium medicinae which must have been written in or after this same year 1). In literature the meaning is prevalent that Yperman originally wrote his work in Latin. Although Carolus had already said that „Jean Yper- mans doit être considéré jusqu’ici comme le père de la chirurgie flamande, paree qu’il est le premier qui ait écrit ex-professo, en sa langue maternelle, sur la chirurgie” 2), still Haeser wrote: „Die Chi- rurgie Ypermans, ursprünglich lateinisch abgefasst, war zunachst für den noch sehr jungen Sohn desselben bestimmt” 3). Neuburger 4) is of the same opinion and also Pagel 5) mentioned a Latin text of which only the commencement is said to be left. Haeser probably had before him Broeckx’ edition of the Cambridge ms When we read its Latin introduction with attention, we shall find no proof whatever of an original Latin text, but only of Latin authors which Yperman has consulted for his work. „Quam ipse tractavit in flamingo ad utilatem filii suo” it reads in the last mentioned ms., while in the Brussels one we find: „Quam ipse compilavit et in teutonico redegit filio suo” Moreover all the maniscripts, also the Londori one, say hat Yperman has „drawn” the Chirurgie „from all the authors” and „from Latin and from his own knowledge” and that „in the Dutch language”. I therefore regard it as probable that the Latin opening has been 1) Pagel, Ueber den Theriak, nach einer bisher ungedruckten Schrift des Bernhard von Gordon. Pharmac. Post, 1894. 2) Ann. d. 1. Soc. de Méd. d. Gand XXXII, 1854, p. 32. 3) Geschichte der Medizin, I, p. 769. 4) Geschichte der Medizin, II, p. 519. 5) Handbuch der Geschichte der Medizin, I, p. 738.