3 Each citizen of Yperen was obliged to make this promise before he entered the matrimonial state, and if fate has not unexpectedly interfered, the Jan Yperman in question was really married in the evening of August the i2th, 1285. But this person and our master Jan need not have been one and the same man. A namesake then ? This possibility cannot be ignored; very likely persons of the same name were living at the time in this town which is said to have then counted a couple of hundred thousand souls. The probability, however, of their having borne the same christian name is less great. We must also think here of Yperman’s father, for just as there have been both a Kateline and a „Kateline, fille Kateline Ypermans”, so also the father of our Jan may have answered to the same christian name. But granted that it was the elder Yperman who at that date entered upon holy matrimony, and further that already in the first year of his wedded state a son was born to him, then in 1297 that son was cer- tainly still too young for the post of surgeon in the hospital of Belle. The supposition, therefore that it is the writer of the „Cyrurgia” who is meant in the document, is far from absurd, and it sets at nought the theories of those who put the year of Yperman’s buth between 1275 and 1300 and let him be student in Paris about the last men- tioned date. Snellaert 1) suggested that Yperman was born at Poperingen. He based this supposition on a document relating an investigation at Poperingen by order of Count Guy of Dampierre on Friday before Easter of the year 1281 (April 3, 1281, New Style) into the share taken by some citizens in a riot that had taken place at Yperen in 1280 and is known in history as Cockerulle. In the warrant is named a witness Jehan Iperman, and according to Snellaert it is not impos- sible that this was master Jan. This theory, however, is just as vague as Carolus’ 2), according to whom Yperman’s name, being synonymous with „Jan, coming from Yperen”, would contain an indication of his birthplace. There is no doubt that Ypermand lived and practised at Yperen. Over and over again we hnd mentioned in the accounts of the town oath to keep and cause to keep all by laws on marriage made and issued by the law of the town of Yperen. Witnesses were.... Done on the.... (Chiro- graphy on parchment indented at the bottom bearing on the indenture in capitals the word: Chirographe etc.). 1) Buil. d. 1. Soc. de Méd. d. Gand, XXXe Vol., 1863, p. 337. 2) Ann. d. 1. Soc. d. Méd, d. Gand, XXXIIe Vol, 1854, p. 31.