5 „boet. Che fu fait en 1’an de grace mil ccc et dijs, le premier diemenche „dou mois de julie i). (Original sur parchemin. Le Sceau, pendant a doublé queue, brisé. Ville d’Ypres. Archives. Chartes diverses. Anno 1310, 5 juillet.) Op de keerzijde: M. Jeh. Yperman deus deniers d’or. In XVde-eeuwsch schrift: Van ene huus bach- ten Krielen ant kerchof bij den overdraghe. The „Cyrurgia” too contains a few hints concerning Yperman’s place of abode. On page 40 2) it says: 1) We, aldermen of Yperen, herewith make known to all, that master Jan Yperman, Citizen of Yperen, has bought and obtained in fuil possession from Nicholon Cole, Citizen of Yperen, Beatrice, his wife, and from William le Rous and Gillion del Atrie, citizen of Yperen, solicitor (probably guardian) of Tierkin, Hannekin and Copkin, children of the Nicholon Cole afore- mentioned, in the names of the orphans and [acting] for them, a house, including full rights, the grounds belonging to it and all the fixtures, situated outside the gate of Boesinghes, to the east on the far side of the Yper between the square and the church of Our Lady of Breul on the one side and Willame van de Velde’s house on the other; with which the afore- mentioned sellers and the afore-mentioned solicitor, in the names of the afore-mentioned orphans have agreed, and which they have handed over to the afore-mentioned master Jehan Yperman, quite according to the law, in accordance with the laws and usages of the town of Yperen; and must protect him against any claims, against a yearly (probably not to be bought ofïf) interest of five shillings heriditary revenue for each year that passes. As a reminder and for the conclusion [of this contract] we have sealed this charter with the seal of Yperen. As witnesses the aldermen .... Done on the .... etc. (Original on parchment the seal hanging on a doublé ribbon is broken. Town of Yperen. Archives. Divers charters. Anno 1310, July 5)- On the wrong side: Mr. Jeh. Yperman, two deniers of gold. In 15th century writing: Of a house at the back of Brielen near the churchyard at the cros-road (between two waters). 2) Meester Jan Ypermans Surgie. Leiden, Sythoff, 1912.