2 The year of his death is given betvveen 1329 and 1332; but it is also possible that he then retired from public life. Daremberg mentions 1310, Snellaert, however, gives 1350. This is, briefly, what Broeckx accepts as knovvn of Yperman’s life, and it raay indeed be called a great deal of a person who first saw the light six centuries ago. Unfortunately a great deal also may be said against the accuracy on the chief points of this biography. The data at the disposal of Diegerick and Carolus were but scanty; they only consist in a few items on the account books of the town and in some sayings of Yper- raan himself. They give indeed no light whatever to the far reaching conclusions which the biographers have thought they were warranted in drawing, led on by the Hight of their imagination and misled by a far too superficial investigation. In reality very little is known about Yperman’s life. As appears from some accounts of the town of Yperen, of which more later on,he held a public post there early in the 14th century; from this we may deduce that he was born in the latter half of the 13111 century. Pur- posely and out of prudence I say in the latter half, and not, like Broeckx, „le dernier quart”, because, thanks to the kind help of the Keeper of the Archives at Yperen, Mr. E. de Sagher, I have had an opportunity to look into a paper, which, if it really refers to our master Jan, compels us to accept a far earlier year for his birth. I here quote this document which has in an incomprehensible way escaped Diegerick’s notice or has at least not been used by him. „Sachent tout chil ki cheste chartrepartie verront et orront, ke Jehans „Yperman, bourgois d’Ypre, a enconvent et promis par se foit fiancié „a tenir et a faire tenir toutes les keures, ki faites sunt et establies „par le loy de le vile d’Ypre sor mariages. A cheste connisanche furent „eschevins d’Ypre: Jehans li Sages et Jehans Falais. Chou fu fait en „1’an de 1’incarnation m. cc. et lxxxv, el mois d’aoust le semmedi après „le jor Nostre-Dame 1). (Chirographe en parchemin endenté par le bas, portant sur 1’endenture en capitales le mot: chirographe. Ville d’Ypres, Archives. Collection desChiro- graphes. Année 1285, 18 aoüt). 1) To all those who shall see and read this charter, written by hand in duplo, be it known that Jan Yperman, Citizen of Yperen, has promised on