So for some reason or other the mother was succeeded by the daughter in the course of the year. There is no mention of the kind of office they held at the hospital of „Notre Dame” on the Great Market. The assertion that the two persons meant here are master Jan’s mother and sister, Diegerick may hold himself responsible for; I dare not bring forward an opinion on this point since virtually there is not the slightest indication of relationship. Another point regards the question whether or no Yperman belonged to the clergy. It was Carolus who suggested this, because in the Chi- rurgie we find here and there expressions like „leeken, leeke-meesters, leeke-surgijns” i) which may mean „laïcus” or „prophanus” in opposition to „clericus” 2). But he does not exclude the possibility, that with the word „leek” is meant „illiteratus”, „unlettered” or „unschooled”, hence somebody may be meant who has not had proper professional training. This the opinion of Snellaert 3) who, rightly as it seems to me, refers to some passages in the Chirurgie which leave nothing to be wished for in the matter of clearness. So in the chapter on Spasmus (p. 58) „lay masters” are spoken of as persons „who do not know of the art” 4); in another place (p. 190) as „unschooled laics . . . . who do not know of the matter, and that is because they have no knowledge of nature of which they have learned nothing” 5). Instead of Lanfranc, himself a „prophanus”, a „lay-master” was called in by the mother of a wounded person (p. 19); in short, whenever Yperman uses these ex- pressions or speaks of „false masters who are laics”, it is evident that he meant those people who had not enjoyed proper training, empirists in the worst sense of the word, who were only too numerous in those 1) laics, lay-masters, lay-surgeons. 2) For a time I was of the same opinion, based on the words occurring in the London ms. fol. 143 r.: „Master Jans p. Ypermans”, the p of which I regarded as a shortening of „presbyter”. On a closer investigation of the photograph with which I had to content myself, it appeared, however, that this letter was crossed out by a thin line, so that it probably must be regarded as a slip of the pen. 3) Buil. cl. 1. Soc. d. Méd. d. Gand. XXXe Vol., 1863, p. 333. 4) „die niet en weten van der konst”. 5) „leeke onbekinde .... die niet ne weten van der saken, ende dat es omme datsi gheene kennese draghen ane de natuere, waer of datsi niet ge- leert siin”.