r3 days owing to insufficiënt medical teaching and deficiënt supervision on medical practices. Besides the official documents discussed above, there are in the manuscript copies of the „Cyrurgia” still some data worth mentioning. On p. 130, we find the before mentioned story of a serious case treated by Lanfranc at Milan. Yperman adds after it: „The same happened to me in the year of our Lord MCCC and XXVIII at Yperen with a young beguin” 1). Snellaert could employ this passage to refute Daremberg’s opinion that Yperman should have died in 1310, which opinion was based on this sentence in the Cambridge ms. (fol. 1 v.): „This (viz. his Chirurgie) he translated and wrote in the Dutch language for the saké of his son during his own life and when he enjoyed the salary in the town of Yperen in the service of which he died in the year of our Lord mccc and x . . . 2). Snellaert, convinced by the case with the beguin that the date 1310 is wrong, has tried to find an explanation for this contradiction, which, however, as I have proved ere now is only apparent 3). He regards the X as a distorted ■/? and hence adopts 1350 as the year of Yper- man’s death. But if Snellaert hat known the Londen ms. he would possibly not have taken refuge in this explanation. The x in the Cam- bridge ms. is as clear as can be wished; not so, however, the text of the same. The Londen ms. is much clearer on this point. There the corresponding passage reads: „and drew salary in the town of Yperen in the service of which he „died [.] in the year of our Lord when we wrote mccc and x then „he wrote the work in Dutch . . . .” 4). 1) „Dat selve gesciede mij int jaer ons heeren mccc ende xxviii typeren ane ene jonghe beghine’’. — The London and Cambridge mss. give: 1321. 2) „dit troc hi ende maecte in dyetscher talen dewelke dat hi bestont te maken om zijns selves zone binnen zijn zelves live ende dat specion (read: pensioen, in the sense of salary. See Vandenpeereboom, Ypriana IV, p. 356) hadde hi binnen der stede van Yperen in welke dienst dat hi sterf int jaer ons heeren mccc en x .. ..” 3) Janus, XlVe Ann. 1909, p. 393. There are also to be found the photo- graphs rendering the passages under discussion. 4) „ende pensioen hadde binnen der steden van Yperen in welke dienst dat hij sterft [.] int jaer ons here doe men scref mccc ende x doe maecte hij dat werc in die[t]sche . . ..”