6 „....and many other wounded people who I cured in the like „manner and this was in Ypere in Flanders and there abouts” i). Further Yperman says, p. 169, with regard to the treatment of hernia with „cussineelen” 2): „and I cured many with it within the town of Ypere ...” 3). The just mentioned charter sheds at the same time some light on another point, which until now was subject to some doubt. How does the fact that Yperman held a municipal post in Yperen in 1304 tally with the attempt by the aldermen, as appears from the already men- tioned item from the budget of 1318, to persuade him to settle in town? Is it likely that Yperman for some time has been living out of town, while holding a post in town? Communalism, so strongly devel- oped in the middle ages, would very probably have opposed this. But there was no need of it going so far as that, for now it has become extremely probable that Yperman also took up residence in the house which was bought in 1310 and which is mentioned in the deed of purchase as being situated just outside the walls. But the doctor living outside the gate, even if it were under the smoke of the town, must in the long run have been very akward, as we can very well under- stand. How troublesome it must have been to send for the docter at alle unseasonable hours outside the gates, whenever an accident or the sudden growing worse of a patiënt necessitated his presence in town or at the hospital! It is therefore quite plain that the aldermen tried to put an end to this objectionable state of things; that they submitted to a rather considerable pecuniary sacrifice proves that they rightly valued Yperman’s deserts. Perhaps Yperman, then took up his above in the „Zuutstraete”. He possessed there a house in 1313, for in that year the aldermen rented a room from him as is shown by the muni- cipal accounts of 1313: „Ch’est chou que on a donné a diverses persones et paiét pour „dettes de la ville par le tans Jakeme Trouvé et Jehan de Scotes, tré- „soriers, 1’an de grace M.CCC et XIII, puis le dimenche devant le „jour saint martin en yver en encha. „A maiste Jehan Yperman pour le lieuwage de le cambre de se „maison, la eschevin sient, pour un an: 5 mars, valent 8 4). 1) . .. ende vele andere gewonden die ic genas dies gelike ende dit was in Ypere in Vlaenderen ende daer ontrent”. 2) Cushions. 3) „ende ic ghenas vele lieden der met binnen der stede van Ypere . .. .” 4) This point has escaped Diegerick’s notice. It appears in vol. I, p. 495