STONE IN GIRLHOOD. 307 direction towards its neck; the stone being removed, the bladder should be explored by the finger, lest there be a second stone. The rectal bag is emptied and withdrawn. It is better not to put sutures in either the vesical or the abdominal wound. No drainage-tube is required, but the child may be kept a good deal on his face or side. The high operation is straightforward and free of the risk of haemorrhage, of injury to the ejaculatory ducts, and of not opening the bladder (as in certain blank lateral lithoto- mies); but there is some risk of wounding the peritoneum, also of urinary infiltration occurring in the loose connective tissue around the bladder, and of septicaemia. Moreover, it does not afford to the bladder the perfect drain which is secured by lateral lithotomy. The rectal inflation should be carried out with the greatest care, or the bowel may be ruptured or involved in gangrene. It is safer not to use the rectal bag, for even without it there is no actual difficulty in finding the bladder. In one case the inflated rectum pushed the bladder aside, and, coming forwards to the suprapubic region, was actually opened in mistake for the bladder. In another case, the first object seen after opening the abdo- men was the bag, which had sprung forwards through a rent in the rectum. In another case, the peritoneum being wounded, the abdominal viscera appeared when the child was in bed. No; the high operation has not a good history in children. Stone in girlhood.—Calculi in girls are comparatively rare, for a small stone descending from the kidney would readily escape by the capacious urethra; nevertheless, every girl with obscure symptoms about bladder or rectum should be thoroughly sounded. The symptoms differ from those in the boy. There may be but little complaint of vesical trouble, whilst tenesmus, diarrhoea, and pains about the perintcum may withdraw attention to the rectum. There may also be irritation about the external genitals, and the urine may contain mucus or blood. The stone may be felt through the vagina. Under an anaesthetic, the stone, if small, may be with- drawn by a pair of ring dressing forceps, though there is often difficulty in seizing it. If it be large, it should