206 ADENOID VEGETATIONS. is associated with cicatrisation and contraction; thus the soft palate and other mucous folds may be dragged from their normal position and permanently fixed. The tonsils may also be implicated in the inflammatory process. If the ulcers be not hopelessly beyond the reach of practical surgery, they may be scraped clean, and subjected to insufflation of boracic powder. The prognosis is extremely unfavourable. Adenoid vegetations in the naso-pharyngeal cavity are very often associated with enlargement of the tonsils. They are the result of hypertrophy of the adenoid tissue which abounds in that neighbourhood, and especially of the so-called pharyngeal tonsil, which is situated between the Eustachian tubes. When the adenoids are abundant, a granular ap- pearance is noticeable on the pharyngeal wall, the result of overgrowth of lymphoid tissue. The affection may be de- tected even in infancy, and should always be examined for, if an infant be the subject of constant snuffling or chronic nasal catarrh. Thus, “snuffles” are not always caused by hereditary syphilis. The child has frequent naso-pharyngeal catarrh, with running from the nose. He is pale and poor- looking ; he cannot breathe freely through the naso-pharynx, so his mouth remains open, and his nostrils are small and flat. Like the subject of enlarged tonsils, he has a vacant expres- sion, and he generally snores at night. His voice is “ dead,” or “ nasal,” and, on account of the blocking, or catarrh of the Eustachian tube, he is dull of hearing; sometimes he is quite deaf or stupid. If the vegetations have long existed, there may be obvious deformity of the chest. And in a con- siderable proportion of children with serious nasal obstruction inguinal hernia is co-existent. Sometimes the growths are associated with elongation of the uvula, and Avith attacks of asthmatic breathing and serious dyspnoea. By hooking the end of the index-finger round the soft palate the obstruction of the posterior nares by soft, friable tissue is easily made out. No mirror is needed; the finger tells everything, and that unmistakably. (For drawing of adenoids, see Frontispiece.) Though this is comparatively a newly discovered disease, it has probably existed as long as tuberculosis itself. In the unenlightened days many children must have got well