295 IN GIRLHOOD. more than older ones: and as puberty approaches the trouble is sure to disappear. In the meanwhile it is not advisable that the child should wear an indiarubber urinal, as it would make the nurse and parents less earnest in their endeavours to hurry on the cure, whilst the effect upon the child would be extremely prejudicial. But if a combination of circumstances lead to the sus- picion that the irritation is due to vesical calculus, the child must be sounded once, twice, or as many times as necessary. All the irritability may cease on a full-sized sound being introduced, even though no stone have been detected, and this should be adopted as routine practice in the treatment of enuresis, even although no symptoms of vesical calculus, beyond that of irritability, exist. To admit that this is empirical is not to detract from its practical value. In some cases, it probably acts by widening out a congenital stenosis in the urethra. If the enuresis be simply the result of laziness or of any other bad habit, the way in which the sounding (which is to be repeated if necessary) may act is very evident. Incontinence of urine in girlhood.—Much 'of what has been remarked above applies equally to incontinence both in boys and girls; but in the case of the female child, incon- tinence, haematuria, and even considerable purulent discharge, may be due to the presence of a vascular polypus at or within the meatus urinarius, which, by irritating the peripheral nerves, disturbs the vesical system, much as does the retained smegma in the other sex. The polypus may be no larger than a pin’s head, or it may be the size of a currant; it is a bright papillary outgrowth of the urethral lining. For its detection the patient must be anaesthetised and placed in the lithotomy position in a good light. The urethral wralls may be held apart by the blades of dressing forceps, the polypus being removed by a snip with the scissors. On making a careful examination of a girl who was troubled with incontinence of urine by day as well as by night, it was found that the floor of her urethra was deficient. No operation was done for her, but, as she grew older, the muscular fibres at the neck of her bladder acquired in- creasing power in retaining the urine.