360 LATERAL CURVATURE. When not walking about in the open air, or employed at gymnastic exercises, the patient should be sitting in a chair with a high, sloping hack, with the sacrum as well as the scapula against the chair-back, in order that the sitting pos- ture may be kept up without a relapse into the vicious position. She should be made to see the importance of, and interest herself in, maintaining the correct posture when standing as Avell as when sitting; and in order that she may herself correct error and watch for improvement, she may practise before a good-sized looking-glass. The ordinary music stool must be discarded, and in its place she should have a high chair with a back, which should be drawn close up to the piano, so that she may avail herself of the support of the back of the chair. A serviceable and cheap reclining chair may be obtained at an outfitting or furnishing warehouse. It is the long “ deck-chair,” made of cane, with a sloping back. But if no reclining chair or couch is at hand, the child should be made to lie prone on the hearth-rug or by the window; and in this way, with the chin supported on the hands, she may daily spend several hours reading, looking at pictures, or amusing herself. She should go to bed early, and should not work at lessons or music before breakfast. She should not be allowed to sleep upon the side of the convexity. The bed should have a firm mattress and a flat pillow. A very useful seat can be obtained by cutting a few inches off the hind legs of a common Windsor chair which has vertical rails up the back. If, after this, it appear unsteady as the child thoroughly supports herself in it, it may be kept with its back standing against the Avail. In every case the eyesight should be carefully tested. If the lateral curvature be secondary to a tilting of the pelvis from an inequality in the length of the limbs, the iliac crests should be brought to the same level, by increasing the thickness of the sole of the boot on the affected side. Such elevation should be gradual, so that the spinal column may have time to arrange its elements in accordance with the changed conditions. The meals should be plain, and taken at regular intervals. Cakes and sweet-stuff cloy the appetite; stimulants are not