196 TONGUE-TIE. Tongue-tie. Sometimes the pule fibre-membranous band beneath the tongue is tight enough only to check extreme protrusion, whilst at others the attachment is so complete that the tip of the tongue can hardly be protruded beyond the incisor teeth. In the latter case there may be impedi- ment to sucking. The operation is very simple and almost painless. The infant’s body and arms are steadied between the nurse’s knees, the surgeon hooks the tips of the first and second fingers of the left hand under the tongue, one on either side of the frsenum, and with a pair of scissors just snips the edge of the little cord; he tears through the rest of the frsenum, and all is done. No anaesthetic is required, and there is no after-treatment. There is no haemorrhage of . # O importance, for the ranine artery, as it runs along the under surface of the tongue, is held up out of harm’s way by the fingers. The snip in the fnenum should be just enough to start the subsequent tearing. If the incision be made too freely, or the tongue torn up from the floor of the mouth with unnecessary vigour, it may be so much loosened that the infant can suck it backwards, and even bring it within the grasp of the constrictors. The monthly nurse— however high her qualification—should never presume to operate upon a short frsenum linguae. Tongue-swallowing is a troublesome condition; it may be necessary to have the child constantly watched, lest suffo- cation ensue. Tracheotomy may even be demanded as a precautionary measure, as the condition is apt to cause fatal dyspnoea. For the purpose of keeping the tongue in place, a plastic operation on the floor of the mouth, with the view of establishing sublingual adhesions, may be advisable— in fact, producing an artificial tongue-tie. The condition is the result of a congenitally long frsenum, or of operation for a tight one having been too vigorously performed. Children have sometimes died from swallowing the tongue shortly after division of the frsenum. If after operation suffocation be threatened, the nurse should promptly thrust her finger into the pharynx and hook up the tongue. Thumb-sucking is a habit of which a child should be broken as quickly as possible, or else it may be insisted in