212 MUCOUS POLYPI. Pitts tells of a case in which a nasal meningocele in a child was unfortunately taken for, and treated as, a simple polypus. Impacted food.—Food which is being “bolted” may become impacted in the pharynx; the child chokes and probably the food is ejected. But if it be so tightly wedged as not to be so expelled, a person of sense would thrust in the fingers and try to dislodge it. If, though the laryngeal aperture were not completely plugged, the accident were associated with extreme dyspnoea, and the fingers passed beyond the epiglottis could not detect an impacted mass, a probang should be passed, as it is probable that the trachea is being compressed by the mass impacted in the oesophagus. Foreign bodies swallowed.—Parents are apt to conclude that because a small object with which a child had been recently playing is lost to sight, it must have been swallowed. If a careful and thorough search be made of dress, bed, or carpet, anxiety may often be allayed by the discovery of the missing object. 1 was once called to a child who, as I was assured, had swallowed a large jet earring with a tassel fringe. He showed no symptoms, and the earring Avas eventually discovered hanging to the mother’s dress. In the case of a foreign body SAvallowed or impacted, emetics had better not be used. The Rdntgen rays will in certain cases clear up doubt. Foreign body in oesophagus.—If it be supposed that a foreign body is lodged in the oesophagus, that admirable instrument known as the chimney-sweep’s brush should be used. It may be oiled and passed gently down to the stomach: then, by a little manipulation of the handle, a disk-like network of stiff bristles is made to stand out horizontally. In its ascent it closely SAveeps the mucous membrane, and it is almost certain to thrust doAvn or Avitli- draAV anything lodged in the canal. Being very flexible, it is not likely to make a false passage. Cooper Forster tells of the end of a probang having been found in the posterior mediastinum ! All instruments should be carefully inspected and tested before being used. The abrasion made, by a piece of bone in its descent may give rise to the sensation that .the obstruction persists; the AvithdraAval of the open brush