OZENA. 211 is by spreading a handkerchief over the child’s face, com- pressing with the finger the unaffected nostril, placing the mouth over the child's mouth, and giving a few strong puffs. Ozsena (o£eiv, to smell).—An ill-smelling discharge from the nostrils may be the result of traumatic, syphilitic (p. 89), or chronic tuberculous ulceration ; or it may be caused by the irritation of a foreign body. In every case a complete examination should be made with speculum and probe, and, before using the former, the nostrils should be cleansed with irrigations of warm sanitas-water. The fluid thrown up one nostril should fiow out by the other, the child breathing by the open mouth, the palato-pharyngei and the soft palate excluding the fluid from the gullet and mouth. In one instance, obstinate ozeena and enlarged cervical glands were due to the irritation of sewer-gas. Four children in the family were affected. The source of the foul air Avas a Avide opening in the main drain close by. As soon as any of the ailing children Avere sent into another part of the country, all symptoms disappeared, Avhilst a relapse occurred on the return home; this happened on several occasions (p. 103). Sometimes an apparently innocent nasal discharge is of a diphtheritic nature, and is folloAved by paralysis. (See Chap. II.) Sarcoma of the nasal fossa is of rare occurrence. A case has recently been under supervision in Avhich the neAv groAvth proceeded from the ethmoid bone, encroaching upAvards upon the base of the brain, and extending doAvmvards into the nasal fossae. The groAvth Avas associated Avith frequent attacks of bleeding. It is only in the early days of the disease that operation can be expected to afford relief. (For meningocele of nasal fossa, see page 174.) Mucous polypi—which are rare in childhood—should be treated by insufflation of finely-poAvdered alum and tannin, and, if necessary, by evulsion. Thickening of the mucous membrane over the inferior turbinated bone may be mistaken for polypus. But in the former condition the tumour is fixed, non-pedunculated, and usually of a bright red colour. A mucous polypus is grey, stalked, movable, and perhaps seen Avith difficulty. The projection from the turbinated bone may require removal by scissors. Bernard