71 “ SC UR VY ” RICKE TS. of from one to six minims. Lime-water should be given with the milk. The treatment of rickety deformities is given in the next chapter. Foetal rickets is a name given to a condition occasionally observed in the new-born infant. The body of the rickety foetus is rounded, and laden with fat; the belly is tumid; the limbs are stunted, and marked with transverse folds. The shafts of the long bones are short, thick, and bent, and the ends of the ribs beaded by the development of a cap of bone around the costal cartilage; the head is large. These infants may be regarded as belonging to a pronounced foetal type of cretinism. They probably perish at or soon after birth. (Cretinism, page 172.) Although the disease is one of infancy, its appearance may be delayed until the child—usually a female—is approaching its teens, or even puberty. But in some cases of late rickets the disease is probably the recrudescence of an early and unnoticed attack, and is brought on by want of fresh food, fresh air, and exercise. The epiphyses become enlarged, and the bones bend. Rickets in adolescents makes its appearance, or, more probably, its recrudescence, at about puberty. It is an asso- ciation of weak ankles and flat feet, with albuminuria. Lucas attributes it to masturbation. Haemorrhagic, or “ scurvy ” rickets.— If an infant have been brought up chiefly on farinaceous food, or on condensed milk, or on the two combined, he is apt to become extremely anaemic, weak, and markedly rachitic.* A diet exclusively of bread and butter may induce the condition in an older child, but, as a rule, the subjects of so-called “scurvy” rickets are of about nine months. I have recently met with a case in which the infant had been reared on fresh cow’s milk excessively diluted with barley-water. The ribs are beaded, the epiphyses are swollen, and the head is wet with perspiration; there is little or no elevation of temperature. The gums may be spongy and swollen, and bleed at the least touch, and haemorrhages may take place into their substance, making them look as if * Trans. Path. Soc., 1883, by Barlow and Pago; “Year-Book of Treat- ment,” 1884.