394 FRACTURES. securing the turns of the soft' roller, and some padding of cotton-wool should be placed between the ankles and knees. An infant at the breast obviously cannot be kept in bed. Broken thighs in children always do well; extension and counter-extension are not wanted, for there is no overlapping, and all that is necessary is to keep the little patient at rest and to protect the limb from disturbance. Or the limb of the damaged side may be enclosed in lateral splints of plaster of Paris. A very convenient method of treatment is by applying a stirrup (page 414) and passing a cord from it to a pulley above the bed, so that the limb, extended at the knee, is flexed at right angles to the abdomen, the sole of the foot being con- stantly directed to the ceiling. If the child be small, both limbs may be thus fixed. Thus the child is easily kept clean. Older children should be kept flat in bed, the thigh being steadied by a long outside splint, with three short splints around the limb at the seat of fracture. Dr. Laurent thinks that I underrate the frequency with which vicious union of the shaft occurs. At any rate, malposition should be corrected under chloroform as soon as ever it is detected, either by simple osteoclasia or by a cutting operation. The upper epiphysis of the femur is sometimes detached violently, and because the line of fracture is entirely within the joint, the capsule quickly becomes distended with blood. Even after examination under chloroform the exact nature of the injury can only be guessed at. Probably the thickened periosteum is not torn across, so that a few weeks of complete rest in bed suffice to secure solid union. The detached epiphysis remaining in the acetabulum, and the neck being displaced upwards as far as the lower part of the capsule will permit, the limb is slightly shortened, and the top of the great trochanter is above its proper level, as shown by Bryant’s line. Recovery takes place with a shortening of about half an inch, and though there is slight malposition of the fragments, they are solidly united by bone. The lower epiphysis of the femur joins the shaft at about the twentieth year. It may be separated from the diaphysis, tearing away much of the periosteum from the shaft. Unless