303 LATEBAL LITHOTOMY. The operation demands absolute gentleness, and not a particle of stone should be left in the bladder. There should be no hurry, and the stone should be crushed into a fine powder. For lateral lithotomy no special preparation of the patient is required further than clearing the bowels. Whether the bladder be full or empty when the patient is brought upon the table matters little. The only use of water in the bladder at the time of the operation is that its escape may afford information of the knife having en- tered the bladder; but the delicate sense of touch received through the knife gives this information with more trust- worthiness. The staff, which I strongly recommend to the operator who still feels himself free to make his choice, is shaped like the sound, and its beak is quite short. Its median groove ends in a stop where the beak curves off. Its advantages are that it is used as a sound when the child is on the table, and that it forms a straight director from the perinseal incision into the bladder. There is no chance of the knife slipping from its groove and failing to open the bladder, or of its leaving the groove and transfixing the posterior wall of the bladder—calamities which have happened with the curved staff. The stop at the end of the groove guards the bladder from injury, and the beak prevents the staff from leaving the bladder. The staff should be of a size to pass comfortably; the larger it is, the easier is it to find the groove. The child lying flat upon the table, and anaesthetised, the surgeon introduces the staff, and feels and hears the click of the stone. Of this both he and his chief assistants should be absolutely certain. If there be any doubt, the operation must be postponed. There is no exception to this rule—that, before proceeding to cut, the surgeon and his assistants make sure of the presence of the stone. The staff being introduced, the child is brought to the end of the table, and the thighs are flexed and squarely held by two assistants; it is not necessary to tie up the child. A third assistant stands at the left side, holding the staff with the right hand, and, if necessary, raising the scrotum with the other. The surgeon sits in a chair at the breech of