WHY NECK. 184 thickness, so as to keep up a constant though slight strain upon all shortened bands. No mechanical apparatus is needed for the cure. The hands of the surgeon and the nurse, and the voluntary exercises of the patient, can accomplish all that screws and straps can do, and, moreover, with greater satisfaction and comfort. Caries of the cervical vertebrae may cause wry neck. The diagnosis often escapes recognition in the earlier days, the disease for which it is taken being generally rheumatism. (See page 256.) The first symptoms are neuralgia in the area of distribution of the occipital nerves, in the neck, front of chest, shoulders, or arms. The scalp-pains the child is apt to call “ headache.” Children are not clever at describing pain, but they may be trusted when they affirm that a part “ aches,” or is “sore.” When wry neck is associated with obscure pains in the regions indicated above, which are increased by steady pressure upon the head; when the child sits with his chin supported on his hands, and, on being told to turn his head, wheels his whole body round, and refuses to shake or nod his head, there can be no doubt about the deformity being caused by vertebral disease. And for this condition absolute rest in the horizontal position is, of course, required, as described on page 257. In one case the wry neck was the result of cervical periostitis, which had been brought on by the child wearing a hat which was sopping wet. Probably the inflammation was greater in the tissues on one side of the neck than on the other, as a single sterno-mastoid was contracted. The acute- ness of the symptoms, and the suddenness with which they came on, showed that the torticollis was not the result of caries. After four days in bed, the head being steadied between sand-bags, and with the use of fomentations, the child became convalescent. Stiff neck from cold is often of this nature, though in a less marked degree. It is best treated by rest and warmth. When a lymphatic gland is acutely inflamed beneath the deep fascia, the pressure is taken off from it by persistent contraction of the sterno-mastoid of that side, the torticollis disappearing on the.subsidence of the inflammation. So also with deep cervical abscess.