359 TREATMENT. To the tradesman lateral curvature and angular deformity of the spine are often the same thing; at least they need the same treatment, an expensive spinal support. Spinal supports of every kind are not only quite ineffectual in the treatment of lateral curvature, but absolutely prejudicial. They contain a weight of metal which exerts its influence chiefly in tiring the child, in helping to crumple up the pliable pelvic bones, and in effectually preventing due muscular development. The child with lateral curvature should not remain too much in the horizontal position, as this increases the enfeeble- ment of the spinal muscles, and she must not be kept a prisoner to the house. She should be dressed in flannel, but not overweighted with clothes; and as the circulation is often feeble, the legs and arms should be well covered. None of the clothes should be tight; “ hygienic braces ” and all apparatus of that sort should be discarded. A cold bath should not be allowed, except in the height of summer; but doucliings with warm and cold water, and shampooings along the muscles of the spine should be persistently carried out night and morn- ing. Massage, rubbings, doucliings with hot and cold water, not only ease the dull achings and discomfort met with in some of these cases, but they also improve the strength and vigour of the muscles. The continuous or the interrupted current may also be resorted to with the same object. Beyond all this, the lungs must be fully exercised, and the respira- tory muscles brought into play by slow, deep inspirations by the nose and expiration by the mouth. Another exercise is by fixing the patient prone, with the whole of the trunk, upwards from the level of the iliac crests, projecting beyond the end of the couch; the shoulders are allowed to sink towards the ground, and then, by calling into action the masses of the erector spinse, the shoulders are raised even above the level of the rest of the body. This exercise may be gone through several times in the day. Firm longi- tudinal strokings of the patient’s back by the attendant’s two palms generally remove any aching caused by the exercises. These strokings are also usefully employed at home to relieve backache. After each exercise the patient rests a few minutes. Several of the simpler exercises have to be practised at home for about fifteen minutes twice daily.