RICKETS. 67 appeared subsided with the diarrhoea. A second attack ot diarrhoea, after an interval of three months, was followed by more abscesses. He believes that the child was inoculated by absorption of septic material from the bowels. Escheric is of opinion that the abscesses are due to swarms of staphylococci, which abound in the liver of all sucklings, colonising in the connective tissues. The treatment should comprise fresh air and cleanliness, and the prompt incision and washing under chloroform of each abscess as it forms. I have recently had an extremely bad case of this disease, evidently of a pyasmic nature ; but the infant was enabled successfully to struggle through the attack. There was no suspicion of syphilis or tubercle, nor had the mother had any puerperal trouble. RICKETS. Rickets is a disease of nutrition, and usually appears in the first or second year. The disease abounds amongst the offspring of the London poor; practitioners from British colonies are astonished at the number of children affected with it—there were definite signs of rickets in about 30 per cent, of the children under my care in the out-patient depart- ment. Exposed to similar prejudicial influences, some infants become tuberculous, others rickety ; probably an hereditary peculiarity determines the inclination to this or that disease. Tuberculous children are not often rickety. Hand-fed infants are much more liable to rickets than those who are suckled, especially if they have been reared on condensed milk or a farinaceous diet. The children of well-to-do parents are likel}r in these circumstances to show signs of rickets ; the disease is not by any means limited to the children of the poor. Being constantly associated with errors of diet, rickets is probably due to the absorption from the alimentary canal of products of decomposition which have been derived from the undigested food. If this be the case, rickets is as much the result of a toxaemia as arc hectic fever and albuminoid disease, with this difference, that in rickets the absorption is from the ali- mentary canal, and not from a large septic wound, as is usually the case in hectic fever and albuminoid disease.