69 TUMID ABDOMEN. of the plastic lower jaw, under the influence of the pressure of the lips, is occasionally repressed so that the teeth slope backwards. The rickety infant is very apt to be the sub- ject of laryngismus stridulus (page 36), and of convulsive nervous attacks. The bones are deficient in earthy matter, and yield to superimposed pressure. The femur, tibia, and fibula bend, and if the child content himself with crawling, the bones of the arm and forearm may be deformed. Sometimes the mere elevation of the arm by the deltoid causes the humerus to yield. The spine bends in a hoop curve, and may be so weak that the head hangs down upon the chest. Want of nutri- tion affects the development of the bones, so that the rickety youth is generally stunted, as well as bandy or knock-kneed. The ribs yielding under atmospheric pressure, the child becomes pigeon-breasted (See page 86). The anterior ex- tremity of each rib and the adjoining piece of costal cartilage are expanded, so that a series of “ beads ” suggests the term “rickety rosary.” But a child may be markedly rachitic without presenting this sign, the expansion of the end of the rib being then almost entirely on the pleural aspect. The abdomen is prominent and widened, even up under the false ribs. This is not due to enlargement of the liver or mesenteric glands, but to distension of the intestines, for there is unusual resonance on percussion. The motions are irregu- lar and offensive; and the gas evolved by fermentation of the food causes the alimentary canal to be inflated. The promi- nent abdomen, and the chest compressed from side to side, are characteristic of the disease; and they are well shown, to- gether with the large head and the small face, in the adjacent Plate II. An interesting feature in connection with the tumid abdo- men is that the linea alba yields, becomes frayed out, and is represented by a wide median furrow. The straight muscles of the abdomen are then thrust from each other, under the constant pressure from within the cavity, till at last a wide gap is left between them, from pubes to sternum. Through this gap the intestines bulge when the abdominal muscles are thrown into action, as in the child’s attempt to sit up. The pelvic bones become crumpled, and especially so if the