218 POST-AURIGULAR ABSCUSS. jected into it should, if possible, be made to flow out through the meatus. Sometimes it is advisable to divide the posterior part of the tympanic ring, and to convert the meatus, the antrum, and the middle ear into one cavity. The opening v/p of the mastoid antrum in children is a simple operation, and the results are generally satis- factory. In certain cases, though there is neither redness nor swelling of the skin in the mastoid region, clinical signs render the surgeon anxious to explore the antrum. To do this he makes a free, vertical incision upon the mastoid process, a finger’s breadth behind the attachment of the pinna, and then with a sharp gouge he Avorks awards and forwards behind the meatus. Occasionally sequestra of the temporal bone are cast off, and the entire masto-petrous bone may be detached as a sequestrum, and yet the child may recover. A child Avas recently in hospital in Avhom, months previously, such necrosis had taken place; total deafness of that side and facial paralysis had of course resulted. (See also Proc. of Med. Soc. Loud., vol. viii. p. 162.) Intra-cranial suppuration, temporo-sphenoidal abscess, is a frequent result of chronic otitis media. The symptoms are not always definite, but there are generally complaints of severe headache and tenderness, with vomitings, shiverings, and convulsions. Though the temperature may be high, it sometimes remains persistently Ioav, and the pulse may not be accelerated. At first the child is restless; later he becomes dull and droAvsy, and he may be hemiplegic or unconscious. Optic neuritis of that side and squinting may occur. Treatment.—Though the discharge from the meatus may have ceased, the passage should be thoroughly cleansed and explored, and that side of the head should be shaved and rendered aseptic. A large crescentic flap, having been turned doAvn, the skull should be opened by a f-inch trephine, the pin of Avhich is planted an inch aboA'e and an inch behind (Jacobson) the external auditory meatus. If pus is not found, the dura mater should be incised, and, if need be, the temporo- sphenoidal lobe must be explored Avith a tubular needle in a direction forwards, awards, and a little downwards. A soft drainage-tube is then to be inserted, and the Avound closed