244 SPINA BIFIDA. as to diminish the risk of wounding the cord or the large nerves. The injection may have to be repeated several times. Morton advises that injection be undertaken when the infant is from three to six weeks old. If only it were known that the sac contained neither cord nor nerve (unfortunately this information can rarely be obtained), and if the child were a few years old, and his general condition favourable, a plastic operation might be attempted, the cut edges of the sac being adjusted with fine suture. Mr. Mayo Robson and other surgeons have described cases in which the tumours have thus been excised and the cutaneous and meningeal flaps approximated by sutures. In a few cases excellent results have been obtained. In all probability various methods of excision have been resorted to at different times, and, the results having been unsatis- factory, no publication of them has been made ; the subjects of speculative and unsuccessful operations usually have quiet, unostentatious sepulture. By false spina bifida is meant a tumour which, taking its root within the spinal canal, escaping through the un- closed laminae, and appearing above the line of the spinous process, does not contain either spinal nerves or cerebro- spinal fluid. The nature of such tumours varies ; perhaps the most common example is the shrivelled cyst-wall of a meningocele which has undergone obliteration. (See also page 124.) In one instance the tumour was associated with deficient innervation of the bladder; the mass had the appearance of a simple fibro-fatty growth, and almost invited surgical interference. Probably the laminse Avere deficient, but this could not he ascertained; the association with “ Aveakness ” of the bladder suggested a deep attachment. In proposing operation, the surgeon should assure himself, as far as possible, that the connections Avith the spinal canal and the pelvis are not such as to preclude complete abla- tion ; exploration by the rectum should be practised. Spina bifida occulta is that variety in Avhich the defective neural arches are not associated Avitli a bulging of spinal membranes; the adjacent skin is likely to be marked by a thick groAvth of hairs. Club-foot, feeble loAver extremities, and incontinence of urine or fseces should suggest search