12 INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. rusks, arrowroot, or wheat flour. When about nine months old, the mother should begin to wean him by giving him less of the breast or bottle and more of the foods just mentioned, or beef-tea or mutton broth. At a year old he should be entirely weaned, and soon he should have daily a little under- cooked meat pounded up into a pulp with gravy and salt; some potato finely mashed and covered with gravy; an egg, or a little milk pudding. On no account should he be allowed wine, beer, tea, or coffee, though he may have cocoa and milk. He should be given his meals regu- larly, and should not pick at bread and butter, cakes, and sweetstuff in the intervals. Children flourish best on fresh foods. The worst nourished patients are generally those reared on Swiss milk and certain patent foods. Babies and young children must be kept always warm ; they cannot be hardened by scanty clothing or cold baths. Neck, thighs, legs, and arms need to be covered as well as the chest and body. Sunshine is of great value in the treatment of sick children. If a child be not making satisfactory progress in one part of the ward, it is well to put him into a bed where the sun shines during a good part of the day. Even early after a serious operation, it is advisable to get the little patient carried out on to a balcony, into a garden, or to an open window, and there laid in the sunshine—due precaution being taken against cold. Children should be taken out of doors daily when the weather is fine. If they be sent out in a perambulator, the feet and legs should be warm to start Avith, and Avell covered throughout the ride. It is a curious error to keep a child, even though he be “ delicate,” shut up in the house. Every day, and tAvice a day if possible, the child should be taken out into the fresh air. Unless a bitter Avind blow, or it be foggy, the AvindoAvs should be opened for a Avhile for the sake of fresh air. If a child Avet the bed, perspire freely, or kick off the bed-clothes, he should Avear a flannel bed-gOAvn long enough to be tied beloAV his feet, and the bed-clothes should be securely tucked in. He should not be rocked or patted to encourage sleep; sleep should come naturally, and, like food, at regular intervals.