HAEMORRHAGE FRO if UMBILICUS. 271 and afterwards should be kept confined for ten days or a fortnight by a course of opium in minute doses; the sore being left untouched under a thick dressing of vaseline and boracic acid. At the outset of treatment, provided the general health of the child be tolerably satisfactory, all fistulous tracks should be laid open and traced to a single aperture in the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Undermined or un- healthy skin should be cut away and chronic granulation- tissue scraped and freshened. A tuberculous boy who was once under my care for multiple fecal fistufe made a slow but complete recovery under this treatment; Avhen I last saw him, he told me that he had joined the police force. If palliative treatment fail, it may be expedient to detach the adherent bowel, vivify the edges of the aperture and unite them with fine Lembert sutures, and, dropping the intestinal loop into the peritoneal cavity, to close the abdominal wound. Haemorrhage from the umbilicus* may be observed within ten days of birth, and may entail fatal exhaustion. The blood may ooze up from the depths of the depression, without there being any apparent opening in the skin, and soak through compresses and bandages. It may even spurt out when the infant cries, though no opening is distin- guishable. The later its appearance, the worse the prognosis. As some of the subjects have lost blood from the rectum, penis, or gums, umbilical hremorrhage may he an indica- tion of haemophilia (page 54). Dr. T. F. Raven records t a fatal case of umbilical haemor- rhage in which he satisfied himself that the child was a true “ bleeder ” by making a slight scratch on the arm; the scratch bled for seven hours. Treatment.—The effect of gentle pressure between the finger and thumb may be tried, and, if that fail, powdered matico may be applied, and a pad of amadou firmly bandaged on, the infant being kept absolutely quiet. Minute doses of non and ei^ot, or of Ruspini’s styptic, may be administered, * See also “ Year-Book of Treatment,” 1884. t Brit. Med. Journal, Nov., 1884.