61 TUBERCULOUS DACTYLITIS. The treatment demands fresh, dry, warm air; sunshine; flannel clothing; plenty of good wholesome food ; rest; warm washings of the entire body; gentle exercise—mental and physical—and cheerful surroundings. But fresh, dry air and sunshine are “everything” to the tuberculous child. Cold bathing is prejudicial; the circulation is slow, and after ex- posure to cold the fingers become chilled and livid. Drugs to be tried are iron (in the form of tincture or iodide) and cod-liver oil (if the latter can be taken without nausea). Cod- liver oil may be given with sardines, but where it cannot be kept down, cream and bacon form excellent substitutes. The oil must not be administered in large quantities; half a tea- spoonful twice a day after meals is a fair dose. Every now and then the oil may be left off for a few days or weeks, so that a dislike or disgust for it may pass away. Glycerine is not an equivalent for cod-liver oil. Oil may also be rubbed into the skin when the child cannot take it by the mouth, and its action is the more prompt Avhen some camphor lini- ment is added. Wine is not essential; spirits are actually harmful. Occasional doses of rhubarb and soda may be required. Such places as Rhyl, Broadstairs, and Margate are ex- cellent for residence, especially in warm weather; but in winter Bournemouth, Ramsgate, and Eastbourne are pre- ferable. Prof. Lannelongue has advised the injection by a hypo- dermic syringe of a strong solution of chloride of zinc into the tissues infected with a growth of tuberculous granulation- tissue. In the case of a synovial membrane being affected, care must be taken that the solution does not enter the cavity of the joint. My own experience of this method of treat- ment is not sufficient for me to speak either for or against it, but one would think that the sclerosing action of this powerful salt cannot but be beneficial. Tuberculous dactylitis is a rarefying ostitis of the phalanges, or metacarpal or metatarsal bones. It is often associated with other manifestations of tuberculosis. It ma}- come on after a slight injury, but in many cases there is no history of the hand or foot having been damaged. The bone is considerably swollen, its shell of compact tissue being