380 FRACTURES. to this second kind of injury, is a misnomer. The clavicle of the rickety child is very liable to green-stick bending. General caution.—In every case of fracture near a joint or through an epiphysis, it is desirable that the surgeon, however skilled and competent he may be, do not take the undivided responsibility of the case. Some untoward event is apt to ensue which no exercise of art can with certainty avert. Thus, suppuration may occur, and death follow from pyaemia: or synostosis or other form of permanent stiffness may result; or there may be obvious deformity ; the humerus may fail to he properly developed, and the limh may be less useful than was anticipated. Injuries near a joint, skilful as the treatment may have been, sometimes entail dis- appointment as well as undeserved censure. Therefore, the parents should be made at once to understand the serious nature of the injury, at least as regards the future effect. A shoulder or elbow left permanently stiff may well-nigh ruin a professional reputation ; its existence is never forgotten. Even in a country village some brother practitioner can and should he found to help share responsibility. In the case of uncertainty as regards the nature of an injury to bone or joint, exact information may generally be secured by the help of the Rontgen rays. And even in the case of disease of a bone or joint a skiagram may often give great help. Separation of the humeral epiphysis, and even tuberculous djsease of the acetabulum, may thus be clearly demonstrated. A word of caution must be given against applying bandages tightly or unevenly. The softer and more elastic the material of which the roller is made the better; domette and butter-cloth muslin are preferable to cotton, but the soft open-work cotton-rollers do well. If plaster-of-Paris be used (and there is no better material for the purpose), it should not be applied in the meshes of a roller bandage, but in lateral splints of house flannel which have been duly cut to shape. This splinting is evenly secured by a few turns of a muslin roller to one side of the limh, the other side being then ^similarly dealt with. So applied, the splints can he easily removed. Ages at which epiphyses become ossified.—The special