105 CAUSES. Widespread disease may follow the stopping of carious milk-teeth ; and in connection with these remarks, I would urge the importance of all children being examined by the dental surgeon at regular intervals—say. of six months—in order that anatomical and pathological irregularities of the teeth and mouth may he prevented or arrested * The irritation caused by the presence of pediculi capitis is a common cause of enlargement, and even of suppuration of cervical glands. If the child be of an unhealthy nature, the suppuration may be extensive. The child is pale and miser- able, and there is a peculiar, dry look about the hair. Very often this dry hair has been carefully plastered down by the mother before the child is brought for advice. It is advisable in every case of enlarged cervical glands to inspect the scalp; it were an insult to ask a mother if the head is “ clean.” A good plan of procedure, when the presence of pediculi is suspected, is to take off attention by asking if there has ever been a sore place on the head, and then, without heeding the answer, to make a thorough examination of the scalp. If pediculi be there, they will most likely be found under the hair behind the ear. On quietly showing a pediculus (but hardly else, for adherent ova may not carry conviction), the mother feigns surprise, and engages to cut the hair quite short, or, better still, to have the head shaved. (The hair should be burnt.) The head should then be washed with soap and water, sore places covered with simple ointment, and a skull cap tied on by strings beneath the chin. If removal of the hair cannot be obtained, it must be frequently combed with turpentine, or with a weak lotion of corrosive sublimate. There is an important gland at the elbow, just in front of the internal intermuscular septum, which is often inflamed after injury, or disease of the hand or fore-arm. The axillary glands are sometimes implicated after vaccination, and especially if the child were unhealthy at the time of the operation. If a glandular enlargement be near the saphenous opening, the child’s trousers and sock should be taken oft', and search made for sores about the toes, foot, leg, and thigh; the child’s word should not be taken as evidence of there having been no “ sore place ” upon the leg or foot. Common * See Trans. Odont. Soc., No. 8, 1894.