PRESSURE SORES. are risks beyond human control in every operation, and though they may be in most cases insignificant, the prudent surgeon will reckon with them, for he cannot eliminate them. Children who are out of condition.—A child under prejudicial hygienic influence is a bad subject for a surgical operation, slight injuries being followed by much disturbance. The wound left after circumcision may become foul and sloughing, and healing may be long protracted. Or if the child be operated on for hare-lip or cleft palate, no attempt at primary union may follow. Such are the children with whom a slight sprain is apt to be followed by synovitis, or even by suppurative arthritis, and with whom an injury which would pass almost unnoticed in a strong child is followed by cellulitis or abscess. Many a fat and heavy child is of this weak and flabby nature; the limbs may be large and dimpled and the frame apparently robust, but the bones may be soft and friable, the blood wanting in coloured elements, the muscles ill-developed, and the power of resistance feeble. Pressure sores are extremely apt to occur, often without jDrevious complaint of pain. In the course of time all soft padding becomes hard, so that, however carefully cotton-wool may be arranged at the time of adjusting a splint, the surgeon should make an inspection of the part every now and then; and he should never disregard the child’s complaint of “sore- ness ” under a splint or jacket. The heel is a very likely place for the appearance of a sore, and in arranging a limb, after an excision, for instance, there should be plenty of padding along the calf and down as far as the hollow above the insertion of the tendo Achillis; but no padding should be stuffed under the heel itself. If a child develop a sore about the sacrum—and in certain weakly subjects this happens in spite of every care—he should at once bo placed in the prone position, with his head turned to the foot of the bed so that as lie lies he may see what is going on in the room. A commencing sore, or a threatening redness, should be washed twice daily with brandy and water, or with a weak mercuric solution, and, having been carefully dried (not rubbed), should be dusted with starch powder. In making the bed of a child who has to lie long on his back, the clothes