473 THE OPEN OPERATION. of common house-flannel ave then soaked in creamy plaster of Paris, and are firmly and evenly applied under a gauze bandage. During their application and hardening, the foot is held in the over-corrected position, good heed being given that the plaster casing is not dented in by any uneven pressure of thumb or fingers. The toes are left uncovered tor inspection, so that prompt information of obstructed circulation mioflit be obtained. O w , _ In some of my earliest operations I was apprehensive lest the anterior segment of the foot might show signs of gangrene, not only because of its being rigidly confined in the gypsum casing, but because of the depth of the wound which traversed the tissues from dorsum to sole. Practice, however, has shown such fears to be groundless. The casing, though rigid, is not actually tight, and although the internal plantar artery may be cut in the operation, the dorsalis pedis and the external plantar artery, which are of far greater anatomical importance, run no chance of being injured. But small though the internal plantar artery is, it may sometimes be recognised in the progress of the operation and avoided. The child suffers but little distress after the operation/and on one occasion only did a house surgeon deem it advisable to remove the dressings to examine the foot. In that particular instance the toes had become blue and cold ; a fresh casing Avas at once applied and everything went well. As a rule, the first dressing is done at the end of ten days or a fortnight. The casing is opened out, the bandages are cut up, and the sterilised gauze, already loosened by a little aseptic discharge, is lifted out of the wound, the surface and depths of which are thickly covered with healthy granula- tions. The foot is then washed and lightly dressed as before and again secured in plaster of Paris. In seven or eight weeks the wound is healed and the treatment by manipula- tion and massage is entered upon. The necessity of resorting to a tarsectomy in conjunction with the open operation, in the case of children, must be very rare. In certain cases Phelps completed the open operation by dividing the neck of the astragalus, or bv removing a wedge from the outer side of the os calcis. I do not think that section of the neck of the astragalus can give much