SUPPURATIVA OTITIS. 216 lation-tissue may bulge up from tlie tympanum, hiding the remains of the membrane, and partially filling the meatus. Before an abscess bursts, the acute inflammation of the tympanum causes great constitutional disturbance; the face may be flushed, and the head thrown back between the shoulders, and the child may likely be seized with severe convulsions. If old enough, the child will complain ot “headache,” or pain in the ear. The ear does not receive the attention which it deserves in urgent and obscure nervous conditions of childhood. In some of these cases the child is desperately ill, and even unconscious, with, perhaps, a temperature of 104°; possibly, also, he is attacked with convulsions. He cries constantly, and can neither eat nor sleep, and his pupils may be of unequal size. If the urgency increase, and the case be threatening, it will be advisable to put four leeches behind the ear, and to cover the pinna with a warm bread poultice; a little warm oil, mildly carbolised, may be dropped down the meatus. If the membrane be reddened and bulging, a sharp-pointed, slender knife may be passed down to and through the membrane; if pus escape, the symptoms will at once abate. Though puncture of the membrane is not a desperate pro- cedure, it should not be adopted as a mere speculative measure. Amongst the general measures for otorrhoea must be reckoned warm clothing, healthy surroundings, an occasional change of air, iron, cod-liver oil, quinine, and good Avholesome food. The local measures include frequent syringing of the ear with a warm and very mild solution of Condy’s fluid, sanitas or carbolic acid. The irrigation should be carried out with patience and persistence, and without the expectation of immediate result, for a few weeks, or even months, of the treatment may show but little improvement. The syringe should not be used every now and then, but with perfect regularity, as, for instance, after every meal. The meatus- should then be dried, and boracic powder blown into it from a quill or insufflator. Prognosis.—With a general supervision, children outgrow the otorrhoea; but as regards the persistence of hearing on the affected side, nothing definite can be predicated ; very