214 MUMPS. of incubation is about three weeks, and the duration of the disease about two weeks more. After that, the patient should be kept for at least two weeks out of the reach of those liable to be infected. Suppuration rarely occurs, and the serous exudation is in time completely absorbed. Hardness, how- ever, may linger after all other signs have cleared away. The 'premonitory symptoms are generally malaise, rest- lessness, headache, chilliness, and even vomiting; after two or three days the swelling occurs. The swelling is attended with stiffness rather than pain; the head and neck cannot be turned, mastication and deglutition are difficult, and the child does not care even to talk. The swelling, which is hard and elastic, begins in the hollow between the ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process. In the case of enlarge- ment of a cervical lymphatic gland, the swelling is lower down, the pne-mastoid hollow not being effaced. The other parotid gland may also be attacked, the face being then strangely broadened. The axillary temperature may be raised four or five degrees. The prognosis is favourable. Inflammation of tlic testicle, which is very rarely met with before puberty, is most likely to take place on the disappearance of the enlargement of the parotid, and in rare cases the cessation of the orchitis may be the sign for recurrence of the parotid trouble. In females the mamma or ovary may be similarly affected, or oedema of the vulva may appear. These complications are probably caused by the unrecognised germs which started the parotitis. Treatment—On the earliest suspicion of infection the child should be isolated, and if the constitutional disturbance be severe, he had better be kept in bed; certainly he should not be allowed to run about the house or to go out of doors. The diet should consist of milk and slops; ice may be given to suck. A dose of grey powder or castor oil may be desir- able ; an ointment of belladonna may be smeared over the painful area, under a pad of cotton-wool secured by means of a soft handkerchief. Leeches should be applied only when the inflammation is excessive. The attack having passed off, change of air, and a course of iron and cod-liver oil, or of other tonic, may be desirable. (For malformations of the ear, see page 177.)