254 SPINAL CARIES. muscles, and approaches the surface at the outer border of the rectus, or at the external abdominal ring, or by the scrotum; or it may discharge itself into the duodenum, colon, rectum, or any neighbouring piece of intestine, or even into the ureter or the bladder. It may also open into the hip-joint, or the sacro-iliac articulation. Pus from lumbar caries may escape through the great sacro-sciatic notch to form a gluteal abscess. Fistula-in-ano from spinal abscess is not a very rare condition, and it is apt to be unrecognised. There is, however, a suspicious look about the opening, and a probe may be passed through it a long way up towards the spinal column, which is found rigid. An abscess near the spine is not necessarily the result of vertebral caries. If the spine bend freely, it certainly is not. But a large chronic abscess in the neck, trunk, or thigh, is very apt to be due to vertebral caries. Signs of spinal abscess.—These may be deep or peripheral neuralgic pains, which are not necessarily symmetrical in their distribution. There may be tenderness and fulness, as in the iliac fossa, and the limb may be oedematous from pressure of the pus upon venous and lymphatic trunks. In every case of dorsal or lumbar caries the iliac fossa should be thoroughly examined for abscess. The child being naked, and lying with the thighs drawn up, steady pres- sure should be made with the fingers down into the iliac fosste. Spontaneous absorption of abscess : — Lilian G , six years, came under treatment (in Nov., 1880) for dorsi-lumbar caries, for which she was kept lying flat for nine months, during which time night-shriekings, and pains on movement, disappeared. She was, as her mother said, “ever so much better.” A plaster of Paris jacket Avas worn continuously, and Avith the greatest advantage, for five months. The next she Avore six months, but on its being taken oft she com- plained of pains in the area of distribution of many of the cutaneous branches of the right anterior crural nerve, and especially in the ball of the great toe. Abscess Avas detected in the right iliac fossa. Other jackets were applied during the next fifteen and a half months; and on their final re- moval there Avas not a trace of abscess, the child Avas free