4SS CHILBLAINS. Three stages mark the progress of a chilblain—first, the skin is a little swollen and red. This is associated with itch- ing, which becomes intolerable when the child gets warm in bed, keeping her restless and awake. By day the warmth of the fire, or that produced by frictions or exercise, increases the irritability, and the child can hardly keep from rubbing or scratching the burning place. In the second stage serum oozes from the engorged vessels, throwing up the epidermis into vesicles or blebs. The adjoining skin is dusky on account of venous engorgement. In the third stage the blood-stained serum has escaped from the bleb, and the purple skin is ulcerated or gangrenous. The chilblain is then spoken of as “ broken.” Treatment.—Much care should be given to the mainten- ance of the general health, and for this purpose cod-liver oil, iron, and other tonics may be duly administered, such as a small glass of port wine at lunch or dinner. Every day, and twice a day, if expedient, the child should go out of doors for a brisk walk. She should wear strong, easy boots, and thick worsted stockings; also a flannel vest up to the neck and long in the sleeves, and flannel drawers or “ combinations,” and she should sleep in a flannel night-dress and bed-socks. Boots and stockings should be changed after the walk, and they should always be put on dry and warm. The boot should have an inner sole of cork. A tight boot is harmful in that it impedes the cutaneous circulation; and a high heel crowds the toes together into the front of the boot. The child should not be allowed to sit long with the feet hanging down. The hands should be covered in loose gloves, which arc enclosed in worsted mittens, or are lined with fur. When the hands or feet are benumbed with cold, their warmth should be restored by friction ; they should not be warmed at the fire. The attempt to improve a child’s languid circulation by cold or barely tepid washings, is absolutely wrong: chilly water depresses her feeble circulation. The hands and feet should be washed in quite warm water, and then carefully rubbed with a warm, dry towel. In the first stage, friction with the hand may do good by restoring circulation in the reddened area, and liniments