457 DISEASE OF THE WRIST JOINT. child should be got to a change of air—to the seaside if practicable—wearing the arm in a sling, and possibly for a little while on a splint. As the muscles gain strength, and as the material connecting the ends of the bone shortens, a strong and useful joint results. Partial excision of the elbow may be resorted to when intractable tuberculous arthritis lingers in a limited area of the joint, as around the head and neck of the radius. On the synovial granulation-tissue and the softened bone being thoroughly scraped away, the wound completely closed, and the arm temporarily secured in lateral splints of gypsum, a freely movable joint may be expected. After the operation sea air will, of course, be of great advantage. Synovitis of the wrist joint may follow a sprain or other injury. The wrist is hot and swollen, and every move- ment causes pain. The synovial membrane bulges all round the articulation, the bony landmarks and the tendons being obscured. This universal enlargement affords ample evidence of the joint itself being diseased. Treatment.—The forearm should been closed in moulded splints, and the swollen part submitted to even compression. The splints should be applied at the front and back, and should extend from just below the elbow to the tips of the fingers. As a rule, an inflamed joint does not obtain sufficient rest. For instance, in the case of an inflamed wrist joint, the fingers are not always enclosed in the splint, with the result that the boy uses them, and that rest is but imperfectly secured for the wrist. There need be no fear that such confinement will ultimately render the fingers stiff. It cannot be too clearly insisted on that it is inflammation which leaves a joint stiff, and not the rest which is resorted to with the view of causing subsidence of the inflammation. If the disease linger, as it is apt to do in an unhealthy subject, suppuration may supervene ; but abscess need not imply a permanent stiffness. Tuberculous disease of carpus is very apt to follow injury, inflammation having prepared the tissue for the invasion of the bacilli. Sometimes the disease begins as a synovitis and sometimes as an ostitis, the membrane and bone in due course being invaded by tuberculous granulation-