123 ABDOMINAL SARCOMA. Abdominal sarcoma is not infrequently met with. I he child makes no complaints of pain, but he grows pale and thin, and his abdomen begins to swell. The pressure ot the sarcomatous infiltration upon the veins of the omentum or mesentery causes effusion of ascitic fluid, upon which the inflated intestine may be floated. As the abdominal walls become thinner, hard and painless, brick-like masses of growth can be easily made out; and if, as is often the case, they are in the omentum, they can be examined with still greater facility when the child is on its hands and knees. Inasmuch as the surgeon cannot always be absolutely certain of his diagnosis of abdominal tumours, it may sometimes be well for him to make an exploratory incision, in case, by chance, the disease should be tuberculous peri- tonitis with a matted and hard omentum (page 272). Having introduced his finger and found general sarcomatous infiltra- tion, his diagnosis is confirmed, he has assured himself that no radical treatment can be undertaken, and the parents have the melancholy satisfaction of knowing that nothing has been left undone which might possibly have saved the child. Congenital tumours are the subject of a valuable lecture by Mr. Hardie, in the Lancet of 1885; Mr. Sutton also has recently published an original work upon this subject; and to both of these authors I would here express my indebtedness. Included fcetation, attached foetus, is the result of a fusion of two embryonic areas which have been accidentally formed in the blastodermic vesicle. The attachment may be so slight as to tempt the surgeon to sever the connecting band and so set two individuals free, or so complete that one of the germs may be surrounded by the advancing develop- ment of the other, and its growth compromised. A portion only of the parasitic foetus may attain full development, monstrosities of various kinds being thus produced. Pro- jection of one or more limbs of the parasite from the body of the host is an ordinary example of such a monstrosity. The predominant partner is termed the autosite, and the one of secondary importance the 'parasite. The inclusion may be complete at the time of birth, the parasitic members sprouting later. The growing portion of the included parasite is