346 CONCERNING TRUSSES. be premature, or badly developed, he must be kept warm, and rubbed with cod-liver oil. He must not be allowed to wear that useless but harmful article known as the “ binder,” nor anything which may constrict the abdominal cavity. What- ever the cause, it is very necessary that the hernia be kept up, or in time it may become absolutely unmanageable or strangulated. Concerning trusses.—To apply a stiff truss to an infant is likely to cause eczema, excoriations, or pressure sores, either in the groin or where the band of the truss passes across the loins. The pad, when wetted with urine, is hard and irritating. A slight hernia may get well in the first or second year of life without treatment by rigid trusses, and if a careful super- vision be kept over the little child with congenital hernia, he may possibly do without any truss. But if a truss be required, care must be taken that it fits, and that a second one is kept in reserve. Frequently I have found the truss so adjusted as to allow the escape'of the bowel, and to exert pressure upon it afterwards. A badly-fitting truss is far worse than none. The pad should fall flat over the inguinal canal, pressing gently upwards and backwards, and, like the band, should be evenly covered with soft, clean linen. For the bath, a truss covered with indiarubber should be used, but not with a strong spring, as is so often the case. If a congenital hernia have not disappeared whilst the child was “ in arms,” it may probably get worse as he begins to run about, so that a truss must be obtained. But when he is running about it is more difficult to find a truss that will keep the bowel always up. When the truss is applied for the first time, or a new one is being worn, the child should be kept quiet, so that the pad may have the opportunity of settling down well to its work. Often the pad is too small and conical, and, as a rule, the spring is much stronger than necessary. If, except under compression, the hernia be con- stantly down, the truss must be worn continuous^, night and day; but if it come down only on exertion, it need not be worn when the child is in bed, though it must be re- adjusted before he gets out of bed. The skin beneath it should be carefully washed and dried, and dusted with violet powder at least twice every day. If any excoriation appear,