TRACHEOTOMY. 39 to perform tracheotomy on a diphtheritic child, but he found him so desperately ill that he declined to operate. It was, as he said, past all hope; so no operation was done; the child recovered. Tracheotomy will always give a chance, and it may be the means of rescuing the child even when the hope has been well-nigh extinguished ; perhaps one child in every three is saved by the operation—at any rate, in hospital practice—Avliilst the chances of the procedure hurrying on a fatal termination may be disregarded altogether. Tracheotomy is a delicate rather than a difficult or a dangerous operation. It is unfair to regard it as a last resource ; it is an invaluable measure for tiding a child through a terrible crisis. As soon, then, as the larynx is implicated, the instruments should be in readiness, though possibly they will not he required. The breathing must be carefully watched, and if the difficulty be increasing, if the child be losing- colour, or getting restless, he should at once be afforded the relief which tracheotomy is so well able to give. When is the operation needed ?—The answer is simple : “ When an insufficient amount of air is entering the lungs.” The signs of this are a sinking in of the supraclavicular, suprasternal, and epigastric regions during inspiration, and a harsh or noisy entrance of the air through the glottis. Too much attention must not be given to the partial collapse of the chest in a small, rickety child, for with even slight ■dyspnoea in such a case there is a considerable and unim- portant depression in the root of the neck and in the epigastrium. Further evidence of serious obstruction is prolonged and noisy expiration. If there be a doubt as to whether the operation may be still further delayed, it will he better to perform it forthwith. When more exhausted, the child will be less likely to benefit from the introduction of the tube. Many a case is lost from tracheotomy having- been delayed ; operation will not unfavourably prejudice the child’s chance—that is quite certain. As regards contraindications, Laurent truly says there are none. No child is too young for it. I have had a successful case in private in an infant whose second birthday occurred within a week of the operation. It is a bad omen for the success of the contemplated operation, however, if