LA TERAL LJTHO TO MY. 304 the patient, with a pot of vaseline, the knife, and the forceps at his right hand. He runs his fingers along the pubic arch to the ischial tuberosity, in order to take his bearings, and then, having lubricated his left index finger, he feels by the rectum for the staff, and convinces himself that the bowel is empty, and, therefore, little likely to be cut in the operation. This proceeding should never be omitted, as the staff might possibly have left the urethra, by a false passage, and run between bladder and rectum. Some blank lithotomies were to be explained by the fact of the staff having strayed, and the bladder never having been opened. It matters little how the straight staff is held in the early part of the operation, for when the knife has entered the groove, the surgeon takes the staff into his own hand. A curved staff should be neither thrust towards the perinseum (and rectum), nor hooked up under the pubes. If, when the child is on the table, prolapse of the rectum occur, it should not be returned; to reduce it is to make the lower end of the bowel full, and to render it more likely to be incised. The surgeon then cleanses the finger, gives a last look to the position of the thighs and the staff, and thrusts the point of the knife well into the middle line of the perinseum, half- way between the anus and the base of the scrotum, cutting freely outwards and backwards into the ischio-rectal fossa. If this first incision be free, the second part of the operation is simplified, as the staff becomes more accessible. Only one knife is used throughout the operation: even for very young children its blade must not be too small, for the finger has to be passed after it into the bladder. Formerly a great deal used to be spoken about the way in which the operator should hold the knife in the various steps of lithotomy. He should hold it as suits him best; for my own part, I prefer to hold it as a pen. A little lateral movement of the knife proves the point to be securely lodged in the groove. Then the surgeon takes the handle of the staff from the assistant, and, giving it a very slight turn on its long axis, so as to direct the groove more towards the line of the wound, thrusts staff and knife on together, as one instrument. At the escape of urine, or by appreciation of his having pushed the knife in far enough, he