471 TENOTOMY. If the child be small the foot may be flexed with the left hand whilst tenotomy is performed with the right, the strain on the heel tendon being diminished as the knife passes through, so that the edge does not complete the section with a jump and wound the skin; but to render this contingency still less likely, the tip of the left index finger should be kept on guard oyer the skin at the line of section. o . It is better not to introduce the knife between the skin and the tendon, lest, after the section, the edge should suddenly come against the posterior tibial artery. When there is much deformity the tendon is likely to be close behind the artery. Having ascertained that all the fibres of the tendon are divided, a small pad of dry lint is strapped over the puncture and secured with a few turns of a soft roller. The foot is then twisted into and fixed in an over-corrected position and immediately enclosed in the gypsum bandage. This is a great gain on the old method of Avaiting some days before straightening the foot. There need be no dread of failure of a firm fibrous splice connecting the ends of the severed tendon. It is different from the case of a tendon di\fided in its synovial sheath ; then it is quite possible that the sundered ends may fail to be connected. But I have never knoAvn non- union to occur even after the Avidest separation of the ends of the Achilles tendon and even in operations upon paralytic feet. The foot, therefore, should be unhesitatingly fixed up in the over-corrected position, care being taken that no padding be thrust in betAveen the divided ends of the tendon. If the deformity do not yield to simple Acliilles-tenotomy, all resisting structures must be freely divided in the sole. The old treatment consisted chiefly in tenotomy and in the stretching of obstinate ligaments and fasciae; the modern one demands section not only of tendons, but of ligaments, fasciae and all tight bands; forcible rectification and subse- quent manipulations and frictions. The short bands which are mostly in need of section are at the front of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle and at the astragalo-scaphoid joint. They, together with the insertion of the tibialis posticus, the abductor, and the long flexor of the great toe, may, in the ordinary run of cases, be effectually dealt with