464 DISEASE OF THE ANKLE JOINT. the child does not stand up in bed. Scott’s dressing is a favourite application for chronic ankle arthritis; its bene- ficial influence is probably exerted through the pressure and rest which its employment ensures; for tuberculous inflam- mation is not likely to be specially influenced by the blue ointment, even with the help of the camphor. Too often it happens that, in spite of all treatment, the joint goes on from bad to worse. The ankle becomes more swollen, or discharge takes place, and the child’s health fails. Free openings should be made into the joint through some sinus, which is perhaps partly blocked by unhealthy granulation - tissue. All unhealthy skin and synovial membrane, granulation-tissue, and carious bone, should be thoroughly scraped away by a sharp spoon, and the cavity should be scrubbed out and irrigated with a solution of chloride of zinc (grs. 10 to ^i). After,this the joint should be firmly packed around with absorbent wool, and the leg and foot should be fixed b}^ rectangular splints of flannel and gypsum. Excision is very rarely needed. The treatment described above will probably answer as well as the more formidable operation. When efficiently performed it has all the advan- tages and none of the drawbacks of excision. Still, when the arthritis fails to clear up after scraping, and rest, and change of air, and the disease seems to be confined to the region of the ankle joint, excision may be advantageously resorted to. In my experience, the best way of performing it is after the method of Arbuthnot Lane, who cuts across tendons, vessels, and nerves, at the front of the joint, and so gains complete command of the tuberculous area. Syme’s amputation is often the only satisfactory treat- ment for advanced tuberculous disease of the foot and ankle in unhealthy, ill-fed children: but it is rarely needed in the well-to-do classes of society, in which the patient is likely to have been under surgical attention from the commencement of the trouble. Immediately the mass of diseased tissues is removed the child begins to mend. Anxious, sleepless, and exhausted as he Avas before the operation, he is henceforth at rest and happy. The pinnacles of the temperature chart sink into slight upheavals from the normal line, and even on the