369 TREATMENT. This treatment may in some cases be followed by failure; the periosteum not resuming its osteogenetic func- tion ; the limb remaining useless, and amputation being called for after much disappointment and delay. But when this treatment succeeds it is extremely successful; and when it proves disappointing it is pretty certain that less radical measures would not have achieved a better result. I have witnessed the occurrence of necrosis in so many of these cases that I am convinced that we err upon the side of doing too little rather than doing too much in the treatment of osteomyelitis. “ Expectancy ” in osteomyelitis generally en- tails widespread disaster or death. If both ends of the denuded diaphysis be detached, there can be no doubt as to the advisability of lifting it bodily from the bed of pus in which it is lying. Amputation may, however, be deemed the better alternative. In every case of septic diaphysitis with a detached epiphysis resection of the diaphysis cannot be carried out. Probably if the lower end of the femoral diaphysis were bare and detached, amputation would be preferable. The value of the femur for the purposes of support and progression might be so seriously interfered with by the operation of resection of the end of the diaphysis that there is much to be said in favour of amputation. In those cases in which the diaphysis is bare and its continuity with the epiphysis persists, resection is not called for, as necrosis is not inevitable, though it is probable. In such circumstances it is advisable to lay the compact tissue freely open by gouge or trephine, and to scrape out the septic marrow and the cancellated tissue. After this, the hollowed bone is to be washed out with hot mercuric solution (one in three thousand), and gently dressed with mercuric gauze, the limb being carefully fixed in a splint and raised on a pillow. By these measures the intra-osseous tension is effectually eased and the septic foci are cleared away, with the great advantage of diminishing to the utmost the risk of extensive necrosis and of pyaemia. The indications for amputation cannot be concisely and definitely formulated; each case must be considered by itself. Exhaustion, high temperature, rigors, and delirium do not by