HIP-JOINT DISEASE. 418 Fig. 108.—Iron Pat- ten, to be screwed to sole of boot of sound foot. sunshine, and even take exercise, ivhilst the cure is being wrought. As soon, therefore, as the acute symptoms have passed away and the child has become accustomed to his splint, he should be got out of bed and out of the house—and to the seaside if possible. Having used the splint many years, and in cases of every stage of the disease, and in all sorts of patients, from the diffident girl to the heedless boy, the more I see of it the more highly do I appre- ciate it. My experience is that, however rough and active a boy may be, he is always particularly careful about the way he treats his weak limb. Now and then he may get a fall or a hurt, but the limb is fixed so securely that a day or two in bed will generally suffice to put matters right again. After this he is more careful than ever. But for Thomas’s splint, scores of unhappy children would to-day be still in bed, who are now in the fresh air, and hurrying on the progress towards cure (Fig. 109). Lastly, the more the splint is used, the less becomes the probability of excision or disarticulation. “When may the splint be left off? ” is a question which is often put in the progress of the case ; the best answer is, “ When the child is well.” Relapse is the result of dis- carding it too early. The prolonged wearing of the splint is not the cause of the ankylosis which may follow its lengthy employment. A child may recover with free movement in the joint after continuous wearing of the splint for several years. It is the inflammation, not the rest, which leaves the joint ankylosed; prolonged rest of the joint will not leave it permanently stiffened. On no account, therefore, should movement be imparted during the treatment; such inter- ference would be meddlesome and unsurgical. As Thomas remarked, the best commentary upon the treatment of hip disease by extension and movement is the remarkable frequency with which its principal advocate had to perform excision of the joint. The treatment of many a case is spoilt because of the dread which haunts the mind of the parents— and sometimes also of the practitioner—that prolonged rest