414 HIP-JOINT DISEASE. that of obscure pains in the limb, or an unwillingness to have the thigh moved, the child must be put to bed. if the surgeon cannot quite satisfy himself as to the presence of actual disease let him, by all means, keep the child in bed whilst he is making up his mind, or whilst the obscure symptoms are clearing off. Hip-joint disease ivould not be so intractable a complaint if only it were diagnosed early and methodically dealt with. Pain may be relieved by a blister near the region of the joint, and though this is very rarely required it may some- times promptly end the pains which have been disturbing the child’s sleep. When in bed, the child should never be allowed to sit up, for that would be to flex the pelvis on the femur, and to perpetuate the faulty position of the limb. He must be kept ab- solutely flat, and should be allowed but a thin pillow. The horizontal position may be en- forced by the applica- tion of two small circles of webbing, which - are run over the arms and up to the shoulders, and fixed together across the chest by a short band of like material. Then a long piece of webbing is run through them, across the back of the shoulders, and secured to the frame of the bed (Fig. 105). If the “ harness ” be covered with some bright stuff, the child may not regard it as a fetter; but in any case he is to be kept absolutely flat on his back. Every case of hip-joint disease might, from the very beginning, be treated by means of Thomas’s splint. But, unfortunately, parents are often too poor to find the necessary fifteen or eighteen shillings. In such cases fixation may be obtained by a weight of from three to eight pounds, sus- pended from the leg (Fig. 106)—one pound for each year up to the sixth. To apply the stirrup, a strip of adhesive strapping is cut, Fig. 105.—Armlets for keeping a child flat in bed the long hand is run through the shoulder" loops and behind the child’s shoulder-blades, its ends being secured to the sides of the bed under the mattress.