192 STOMATITIS. fissures occur at the angles of the mouth, caused by parasites conveyed by unclean drinking vessels. The disease is called perleche, and is best treated by alum washes. Ulcerative stomatitis occurs in tuberculous children, and in those who have been badly fed and ilbcared-for; it is apt to follow measles, enteric or scarlet fever. The mucous membrane is swollen, spongy, and dusky. The inflam- mation may run on to ulceration or gangrene. The lining of the lips and cheek may be affected, the teeth being dirty and the breath offensive. The gums being destroyed, the fangs are laid bare, and the teeth may fall out or require extraction, and the alveolar process may necrose. The disease is rarely dependent upon the abuse of mercury; but formerly, when that drug was given very freely, ulcerative stomatitis, shedding of teeth, and maxillary necrosis, were often caused by it. Sometimes an attack of ulcerative stomatitis is the prelude to cancrum oris. (See Plate I. Fig. 2.) The inflam- mation is due to the presence of septic micro-organisms. (The subject of spongy gums is also alluded to on page 71.) Occasionally stomatitis is met with in children who have been brought up on an improper diet, but who manifest no other direct evidence of scurvy; and I have recently seen the disease in a marked form in a child who has been allowed constantly to suck an indiarubber teat. Ulcerations may also be the result of syphilis, when other evidence of con- genital taint will be obtainable (page 89). Treatment.—The mouth must be frequently SAvabbed out Avith a mild lotion of carbolic acid or with a saturated solution of boracic acid. Sloughs should be picked out, incrustations removed, and all carious teeth extracted. A dose of rhubarb and soda should be given, and aftenvards quinine, iron, or cod-liver oil. Fresh milk, vegetables, fruit, and meat are required, but SAveetstuff should be forbidden. Wine may possibly be needed. Maxillary abscess and necrosis result from acute dental periostitis and alveolar abscess. The cheek grows SAvollen and red, tender and hard. The jaw is fixed by inflammatory deposit, a red line appearing in the cedematous gum around a discoloured or hollow tooth ; sometimes, on gently pressing the cheek, ill-smelling pus wells up betAveen tooth and gum.