CLEFT PALATE. 232 nurse makes herself responsible for clean sponges—which should be fresh for every operation. Bleeding can generally be controlled by the firm pressure of a well-squeezed sponge. The instruments are on a table at the operator’s right hand. In private houses a low chest of drawers serves well for table; it should be brought to a good light. The child’s head should hang back, so that the blood may escape into the nares rather than into the pharynx. The mouth is kept open, and the tongue depressed by a Smith’s gag. A tubular needle, with a continuous supply of wire upon a reel at the end of the handle, is very convenient. But, as a ruler I employ a considerable proportion of aseptic horse-hair sutures introduced by a slender rectangular needle. The twist in the wire sutures should invariably be from left to- right, so that if the surgeon subsequently wishes to tighten- one up with torsion forceps he will know Avhich way to turn it. The operation is begun by paring a slender strip of mucous- membrane from each side of the gap from the tip of the- uvula to the very front of the cleft; I like to get it all away in a single piece. A free incision is then made along the alveolar aspect of the palate, close against the teeth, and the strips of muco-periosteum included between these alveolar- incisions and the borders of the cleft are carefully detached by raspatories from beneath the palatine arch and shifted to- the middle line. The tension is then relieved by severing' the aponeurotic attachment of the soft palate to the posterior- border of the hard palate. For this purpose I use a pair of scissors curved almost to a right angle on the flat, intro- ducing one blade between the iquco-periosteum and the hard palate, and the other through the cleft and over the back of the velum. Thus, there are between the blades the apo- neurosis of the soft palate, and the thin mucous membrane coming from posterior nares. On cutting these through the soft palate hangs low and perfectly loose. I then extend the alveolar incision a little backwards through the entire thickness of the soft palate. By this last means the elevators and tensors of the palate and the palato-pharyngei are entirely deprived of influence- upon the line of suture. Though the chief cause of failure of union is the incu- bation of septic micro-organisms, still the risk of the line of $