200 N/EVUS OF THE TONGUE. the result of imperfect closure of the branchial cleft of the mouth or cheek. Some time since, a lingual derinoicl which was discharging serum in the submental region of a boy was at first treated by me as a broken-down gland. Eventually I found that on introducing a fine probe into the opening, it ran up to the root of the tongue, and, all around it, could be felt firm and painless tissue which was evidently a Avell- organised, and not an inflammatory tissue. Ultimately I dissected it out from below. {Med. Press, April, 1891.) Nsevus of the tongue.—When it affects the tongue alone, there is no difficulty in recognising its nature, unless it is deeply situated. If the nsevus be bitten, serious bleeding is apt to occur. It had, therefore, better be dealt with promptly by the cautery. Or, if thought expedient, a V-shaped piece in- cluding the vascular infiltration may be excised, the edges of the wound, which should be made clear of the growth, being approximated by deep sutures. If the tongue be drawn well forward by a strong suture passed through its base, a noevus or other tumour may readily be dissected from its substance. Warts on the surface of the tongue had better be snipped off b}^ curved scissors. The application of escharotics is not a satisfactory way of dealing with them (page 144). Bite of tongue.—If the bite be superficial and Avithout haemorrhage, it may be left alone; but if it be deep, or be associated Avitli haemorrhage, it should be closed by sutures. Relaxed throat may be an association of chronic pharyngitis and tonsillitis, the result of cold or of imperfect sanitation. It is apt to be caused by a leakage of coal-gas. If chronic ulceration of fauces persist after the breaking of follicular abscess, the sore may be touched Avitli lunar caustic, or Avitli the point of the thermo-cautery. Every case of follicular inflammation must for a time be regarded Avith suspicion. Little spots sometimes run together to form false membrane, follicular pharyngitis being thus the precursor of diphtheria. (See pp. 18 and 31.) Tonsillitis in relation to febrile attacks.—A child is suffering from febrile disturbance Avith no distinctive symp- toms ; he complains, perhaps, of headache, and he is