62 TUBERCULOSIS. occupied by a mass of feeble granulation-tissue and pus. The skin of the affected digit is dusky and cedematous, and after the abscess has discharged itself, a ring of flabby granu- lations may mark the opening of a sinus, through which a probe may be passed into the area of the tuberculous osteo- myelitis. The affected bone is apparently enlarged, but, as a matter of fact, the original bone-tissue has disappeared under the growth of granulations, the expanded periosteum forming a new osseous shell from its deep layer. (Plate I, Fig. 1, shows a finger affected with tuberculous ostitis.) Treatment.—If the hand or foot be very efficiently fixed on a splint, and kept in perfect rest, the case will probably do well. As the enlargement subsides, minute sequestra come away, the cloacae disappear, and a useful though shortened digit results. But if the disease be more advanced, or prove unresponsive to gentle measures, the shell of bone should be laid open and thoroughly scraped out, the cavity being packed with mercuric gauze. Amputation is rarely needed. Tuberculous gummata of the skull-cap, tuberculosis perforans, sometimes occur in children who are deeply under the influence of tuberculosis. They appear as flat, circular elevations beneath the scalp ; they are rather tender, and at first are quite firm. But as they increase in size they become softer, on account of the breaking down of the granulation- tissue and inflammatory material of which they are composed. If left to take their own course, they become more elevated and still softer, and at last the scalp gives way over them, exposing a carious surface of the calvaria. The central part of the small area of diseased bone is then represented by a circular and somewhat pyramidal sequestrum, which has been loosened from the surrounding bone by an annular growth of granulation-tissue. In fact, the disease is a mixture of caries and necrosis (caries necrotica), and, as might be expected in the diathesis, the inflammation is unassociated with plastic deposit. The effect of tuberculous inflammation of compact bone, like the skull-cap, is different from that of a spongy bone—the body of a vertebra, for instance. In the latter case a rarefying ostitis results; but Avhen bal’d, compact tissue is inflamed, necrosis is very apt to ensue. Sometimes several of