MISPL A CPU TES TIS. 336 the gland being favourable, transplantation may be attempted. Case:—The right testicle of a boy of two and a half years was well developed and in the normal position. The left was of equal size, but was in the perinseum. An incision was made over the small left scrotum, through which the mis- placed testicle was reached and freed from adhesions. It was easily drawn into position. But as it obstinately slipped back into the perinseum, a deep suture was passed across the left scrotum behind the testicle ; this effectually kept it in position, and the operation proved an entire success. If there is difficulty in keeping the transplanted testis in its new position, it may be well to anchor it to the thigh by a strong suture passing through the scrotum, and keeping the thigh quiet by a long outside splint. In cases where a misplaced testicle has failed to develop in size it is a question whether it is deserving of surgical attention. • If it be a fact that an imperfectly developed gland is specially prone to malignant disease, it would be advisable to remove it without delay. And if it is associated with a reducible inguinal hernia, ablation should also be practised, so that the inguinal canal may be securely blockaded. But, given a healthy child with a well-developed, wandering testis, a simple operation like the one described is not only justifiable, but expedient. Axial rotation of the testis is apt to occur in boyhood, especially if the testis has not completed its descent. Though the symptoms usually occur after violent exercise, the torsion sometimesjtakes place without obvious cause. The symptoms are partly those of strangulated hernia, and partly of acute orchitis ; but they are sufficiently urgent—without being de- finite—to warrant an incision being made down to the tender swelling. The testis is then found in a condition of actual or potential gangrene. Ablation is advisable. If the testicle be left, the wound will probably be long in healing, and atrophy of the damaged organ is almost inevitable (Lancet, 1893). A testis has been known to leave the abdomen by the femoral ring and to reach the surface of the thigh through the saphenous opening. (I have operated upon a woman in whom the ovary had taken this unusual course.*) It there * British Medical Journal, December 13th, 1873.