SYMPTOMS. 89 A S}'philitic infant is, as a rule, apparently healthy for some weeks after birth ; he is not born with syphilitic erup- tion out on him. The symptoms rarely appear before the fourth or sixth week, and are found in greatest intensity about the third or fourth month. If treatment be delayed, the infant may sink exhausted. A mother may give birth to a syphilitic child without having herself been infected. But such an infant should not be put to a wet-nurse, for though it cannot infect its mother, it can infect a healthy woman. Some children in a family may escape the hereditary infection, but, as Hutchinson truly remarks, the youngest may suffer as severely as the eldest. Symptoms.—The subject of congenital syphilis is apt to be of premature birth, and he may, exceptionally, be very puny ; but a syphilitic child is usually strong and plump at birth. Emaciation and anaemia are early and important sug- gestions of the disease, and may for a time afford the only evidence of syphilis. Indeed, persistent anaemia which does not improve by dieting or by ordinary treatment should sug- gest latent syphilis or tubercle. It must be remembered, however, that, though a child shows evidence of syphilis, he may be plump and well-looking. And, further, because the father was known or suspected to be the subject of syphilis, it is not to be assumed that a rash upon his child must needs be syphilitic. It must also be noted that the child may be several years old before he shows any signs of infection. The skin and the mucous membranes first show signs of dis- ease, but even in the early weeks of infancy an obstinate sleeplessness and fretfulness may suggest the presence of the taint. The sleeplessness may be the result of osteal pains. The nasal mucous membrane is in a condition of chronic inflammation and ulceration, so that there is constantly a thin or purulent discharge from the nostrils. The discharge may not be so abundant as that of a simple catarrh, and it is not associated with sneezing. It causes an impediment to the passage of air, and the infant is said to have “ snuffles ”; this may be the first sign to attract attention. But the pre- sence of snuffles is not by itself proof of syphilis. When the nares are blocked, the infant can breathe only by the mouth ; he cannot suck and breathe at the same time without snorting: