421 COMPLICATIONS. surgeon must be ready to incise and wash it out, provided the paracentesis afford but temporary relief. (Trans. Internal Med. Congr. Washington, 1887, sec. ii. p. 563.) Diaphysitis.—When acute inflammation has attacked the growing tissue at the end of the diaphysis to such an extent that thrombosis has occurred in its blood-vessels, that area of tissue is practically a sequestrum, and, lying close to the joint, is very likely to destroy it. In the ordinary course of events it is impossible that the trouble can clear off without impli- cation of the joint, as the end of the diaphysis is within the grasp of the capsular ligament. If, in an early stage of hip- joint disease, we find considerable thickening about the neck and about the trochanter, it should render us very suspicious of the presence of such a sequestrum. And if in such cases an exploratory trephining is made through the great tro- chanter and neck we may remove the sequestrum, and save the joint from implication (Fig. 110). Abscess is a frequent complication. It may come on quietly, Avithout local disturbance, and Avithout any elevation of the child’s temperature being recorded. It is an error to think that the thermometer must denote the collection of pus. On the other hand, abscess may supervene rapidly, Avith intense pain, Avith sleeplessness, loss of appetite,, and convulsions—the rigors of childhood ; the hip becomes SAvollen and extremely tender, and the axillary temperature rises. If increasing pain and SAvelling suddenly subside, the thin posterior part of the capsule has probably burst, and the abscess has diffused itself. This is likely to be a septic case, as represented in Fig. 111. (See also page 372.) With the formation of pus, the limb, if previously in good position, though not on the splint, becomes rigidly flexed. When suppuration has taken place, and is approaching the surface (the capsule having probably given Avay), the pus may be Avithdrawn by several aspirations, undertaken at short intervals—a single aspiration rarely sufficing. If the pus finds its Avay along the course of the trochar wound, the abscess cavity should be laid freely open, and thoroughly Avashed with mercuric solution, the Avound being closed Avith sutures, and no provision being made for drainage. This treatment by no means always succeeds, but Avhen it does it