ACUTE EPIPHYSITIS. 376 Treatment.—The limb should be secured upon a splint, and raised. Tonics and anodynes will be required. If the child be losing strength, and the local trouble do not improve, exploration should be made under chloroform, and search made for localised abscess or necrosis. These cases are apt to drift on indefinitely unless the enlarged bone be cut into. But if the case give no improvement, either scraping out the medulla or amputation will be needed. Supposing that the femur be involved, a free incision is made along the outer side of the thigh. The bone is opened up, and, if necessary, trephined, and the soft interior is thoroughly scraped out in nearly its entire extent. The cavity is then syringed with a hot solution of corrosive sublimate (1 in 4,000), and the cavity is gently stuffed with sublimate gauze, and the limb is dressed Avith Avood-wool. Acute epiphysitis is, as a rule, secondary to inflammation of the adjacent end of the diaphysis. Indeed, I do not think that the disease often exists independently of a septic para- epiphysitis. Its description, therefore, must be sought under the heading of acute osteomyelitis, at the beginning of this chapter. Chronic epiphysitis is likely to be secondary to a syphilitic (page 91), tuberculous (page 58), or a quiet septic inflam- mation at the neighbouring end of - the diaphysis. In the last case the diagnosis will be assisted by finding that the tender sAvelling does not clear up under the influence of mercury. Both in the tuberculous and in the quiet septic disease the enlargement may be associated Avith the presence of a sequestrum, the resemblance to myeloid sarcoma being close. If redness of the skin and deep-seated softening do not indicate the presence of abscess, it will be Avell to incise the SAvelling and explore. It is so easy to mistake a SAvelling at the end of the bone, due to the presence of a sequestrum, for myeloid sarcoma, that it is advisable to explore even A\dien there seems to be no room for doubt. The remoA^al of a central sequestrum may prevent a grave and needless operation (p. 120). Abscess in connection Avith a rib is apt to come on very quietly, and to be discovered only Avhen there is a considerable swelling beneath the skin. The surface is not discoloured. The child may have complained of a “ stitch