453 DISEASE OF THE SIIOULHER JOINT. doubt as to the presence of pus a hydrocele cannula may be introduced. Case.—A nurse girl swung an infant violently by the hand; immediately afterwards the left shoulder became swollen and tender. Attempt to abduct the arm caused the shoulder blade to move with it. The arm was fixed to the side. Three days later the infant was sleepless, and without appetite. There was evident tension in the joint. Under anaesthesia a tenotomy knife was passed through the deltoid and into the joint, and, pus escaping, the track was enlarged with the dressing forceps. The cavity being Avashed out Avith iodine Avater, a small drain Avas inserted, the arm fixed to the chest, and the shoulder covered Avith dry dressings. Relief Avas immediate and permanent. Tavo years later there Avas no evidence of the old articular disease,- except a small Avhite scar Avhich indicated the site of the operation Avouncl. (To-day I should not insert a drainage- tube after thoroughly evacuating an articular abscess.) Even Avith the early adoption of therapeutic measures the inflammation may advance, suppuration becoming abun- dant and continued. After a prompt evacuation such a joint may entirely recover. Or the inflammation may give place to synostosis, but as the scapula plays so freely upon the chest the deficiency of the joint moArements can be thus vicariously and ably performed. It is doubtful if a better practical result could be obtained by excision than is sometimes seen in cases Avhere ankylosis has supervened in childhood. If the bones be implicated, and discharge continue in spite of treatment, there may be no option but to excise the head of the humerus and scrape out the joint. Caries sicca.—Tuberculous inflammation of a Arcry quiet nature is apt to folloAv injury of the shoulder, the articular surfaces being destroyed by granulation-tissue Avitliout any suppuration having occurred. In due course this granulation undergoes ossification, and the joint is left permanently stiff. The epiphysis also becomes fused Avith the diaphysis long before the proper time, so that the arm is eventually much shortened. A little Avhile ago I excised the head of the right humerus of a coachman, avIio had a synostosed joint