34 LARYNGITIS. would oppose his being sent back among his little com- panions for at least two months. No child with a “sore throat” should be allowed to attend school; who • can say into what the apparently slight affection may be developing ? LARYNGITIS. Acute catarrhal laryngitis.—“ Croup,” let it be repeated, is but a symptom of a disease, and it occurs in two forms of laryngitis: in the inflammation of diphtheria, and in the acute laryngitis which may come on after a child has been exposed to wet or cold. In the preceding pages the two kinds of laryngitis may be taken as described together ; the prac- titioner is no more able to dissociate them on paper than, in early cases, he can at the bedside. In diphtheritic laryngitis an exudation membrane is formed; in the acute catarrhal form it may not be. This latter disease is not infectious. But who can venture to say that an attack of acute laryngitis is of the non-infectious variety 1 If a child happily recover from an attack of membranous (diphtheritic) laryngitis, its true nature may escape recognition, unless it have occurred in association with other cases. Some cases begin as an ordinary laryngitis, diphtheritic inflammation supervening. Without seeing patches upon the fauces, it may be impossible to affirm that a laryngitis is diphtheritic, though, if it occur in an epidemic, there can be little doubt as to its nature. In each case the voice is harsh and rasping, and steadily decreases in force; the child speaks with pain, and has evident difficulty in swallowing. In acute catarrhal laryngitis the inflammation does not descend into the trachea and bronchi; there is no enlargement of the lymphatic glands, nor is there altered knee-jerk or albuminuria; these features may, however, be absent in unmistakable diphtheria. Acute catarrhal laryngitis comes on suddenly, and gives the good figures for tracheotomy and intubation. These are the cases which occur after the floor-scrubbings of the Saturday afternoons; but even in them there may be some exudation membrane in the larynx. It is a good plan to suspect diphtheria in every case of “croup.” Time or bacteriological examination will, in all probability, make