TEA UMA TIG CEPIIALHYDEOC'ELE. ^97 damaged area, and give rise later to convulsions or to epilepsy. •I had a successful case of trephining for subdural hcemor- rhage in a boy who was in St. Mary’s Hospital with aphasia and right hemiplegia, which came on a few days after a fall (Brit. Med. Journ., Oct., 1888). Traumatic cephalhydrocele is met with only in child- hood. It is the result of a fracture of the vault of the skull with escape of cerebro-spinal fluid beneath the occipito-frontal aponeurosis. If the fracture were compound, there would be no tumour, as the fluid would run away through the open wound. The wave of intracranial pulsation may be trans- mitted through the fissure to the swelling, but pulsation is not always present. There may be but little constitutional disturbance, and recovery often takes place. (For the common blood-tumour of the scalp, see next page.) In a child under the care of Hey, of Leeds, in 1809, a watery fluid was discharged from a compound fracture of the forehead for three weeks. Another child recovered after the escape of fluid following an injury caused by a kick. In another case, a pulsating tumour, occurring after simple frac- ture in the frontal region, was tapped with a fine trochar. The child eventually died, and it was found that a probe could be passed through the fracture into the brain. Godlee has recorded two cases. * An infant of eight months fell from a height on to the head ; a pulsating tumour occurred, which was punctured, a muddy fluid being withdrawn. The infant died. Examination showed a large hiematoma, which com- municated with the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle through a gap in the parietal bone. The other case was similar; at the autopsy the bone was found thin and partially absorbed. Some of the fluid may be inflammatory effusion, and some, especially when the tumour is associated with recent injury, may be blood serum. If the fluid be- come purulent, the gravity of the prognosis, which is always considerable, is much increased. Abundant discharge does not necessarily entail a fatal issue, but in any case meningitis may supervene. The pulsating tumour must be taken as * Medical Times, Jan. 10, 1885. See also American Journal of Medical Science, July, 1884; and Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1884.