HIP-JOINT DISEASE. 422 is extremely gratifying. If it fail, the abscess can then be irrigated, scraped, and cleansed in the usual way, the wound being closed by sutures. My experience, however, with aspi- rating hip abscesses is by no means satisfactory. I now incise and wash them, and tightly suture and close the wound. Abscess in the thigh—even when high up and deeply placed—is not necessarily the result of hip-joint disease. It may be due to vertebral caries (page 253), or to disease of the os innominatum or femur, or the collection may he independent of bone disease. If the femur can be moved freely in the acetabulum, there is no hip disease (page 409). The abscess in the thigh must be incised, scraped, washed, and dried; the wound must be closed and the cavity compressed by sterilised gauze and bandage, move- ments being provided against by the application of a long outside splint. The abscess should be incised before the skin over it becomes red and thin. A favourite place for pointing is near the great trochanter, that is, in front of the cover of the gluteal muscles, the pus having worked its way beneath the tensor fasciae femoris. Some few ab- scesses reach the surface just below the middle of Poupart’s ligament, through the opening by which the synovial membrane of the joint communicates with the subpsoas bursa. The pus there is apt to find its way up under the psoas and iliacus, and to determine disease of the pelvis or of the sacro-iliac joint (page 433). Excision of the head of the femur is generally required in such a case. Straightening under chloroform may be resorted to in some very few cases, where deformity is due to fibrous adhesions rather than to intra-articular effusion or muscular contraction. But it should be undertaken with absolute gentleness, and only to a slight extent on each occasion. In certain cases a little help is required just to start the im- provement ; at the same time, subcutaneous section of the Fig. 111.—u, Septic ulcer at end of diapliysis causing acute abscess in hip joint; E E, Line of junction of epi- physis ; A A, Line of attachment of capsu- lar-ligament of hip joint. (The child in whom this condition was detected died in St. Mary’s Hospital of acute septicaemia.)