ENLARGEMENT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 110 whatever. To prevent the dressings from becoming soiled when the child is being fed, it is well to have them covered by a handkerchief or a piece of waterproof jaconet, which the nurse can change at her pleasure. Next day the dressings are removed without disturbing the child, and the drainage material is withdrawn. After this, there will be no need for inspecting the wound for several days. There should be no hurry about getting the child up again ; by means of brightly coloured pictures of contingent happiness he whiles away the time, a contented and expectant lotos-eater. But when he is allowed to get up, his neck should still be kept at rest by means of a stock of stiff buckram covered with linen, which is wide enough to reach from his chest to his chin, and from his shoulders to his ears. If it be probable that the case will run a prolonged course, it is better, before operating, to prepare a collar on the principle of that advised in the treatment of cervical caries (page 258). This must be worn whilst the child is up and about, and even for some weeks after the wounds have soundly healed, the sand- pillows being still employed at night. Unfortunately, it often happens that as soon as the skin is incised pus escapes, and, proceeding further, the surgeon finds that he has to deal with a suppurating cavity which encloses and communicates with several broken-down glands. The best that can then be done is to lay open, scrape out, and irrigate the cavity and the sinuses communicating therewith, taking away, or thoroughly scraping out with a sharp spoon, the wreckage of the broken-down glands, enucleating each of the enlarged glands, and making provision for temporary drainage. Whenever a piece of a capsule, or a gland, has to be dissected away, the scalpel must be made to “ hug ” the gland, lest troublesome haemorrhage, or something worse, result. It is highly advantageous to convert an undermining and unhealthy sore, and a possible source of general infection, into an open, clean, and granulating surface. If it be right to remove one degenerating gland, it must be right to remove all compromised glands, as, sooner or later, they are likely to be the seat of abscess. Every enlarged gland, therefore, should be weeded out; and through a single incision glands