443 THOMAS’S SPLINT. may become solidly ankylosed in a faulty position, the limb being left fairly useful. The gait of such a patient may be eventually improved by a thick boot. The value of Scott’s dressing of camphorated mercurial ointment probably depends upon the combined effects of com- pression and rest. With the use of the iron splint, external applications are superfluous. Cod-liver oil or quinine and steel may be prescribed with advantage. No forcible attempt to straighten the ankylosed knee should be undertaken ; nor, unless the deformity be extreme, should resection be advised. If there be enough movement to show that there is no synos- tosis, an attempt may be made to straighten the limb gradually by Thomas’s splint. To leave well alone is an adage peculiarly applicable to the slight deformity left after the clearing up of old-standing articular trouble. With care and patience, even ex- tremely unpromising deformity may be effaced by the splint. But the straightening of the limb, even by the use of Thomas’s splint, may take place vicariously, through the cartilage below the head of the tibia; even then, with the growth of the child, an extremely serviceable limb may be secured. Prognosis.—Under prolonged treatment the disease may clear up completely, or end in useful ankylosis. But in every case there is a great risk of the joint being freed from restraint too early. So long as there is any excess of heat of the sur- face of the limb, or the child complains of pain at night, the splint must be worn, and even for a good while after that. Parents can rarely be made to understand that it is inflamma- tion, not rest of the joint, which produces permanent stiffness. When a joint which has been allowed some short period of freedom, or of gentle exercise on approval, is found to be neither warmer, stiffer, nor more painful than it was before restraint was left off, there can be little doubt that the Fig. 114.—Disease of Right Knee Joint. Patten raising sound side.