353 STRANGULATED HERNIA. of possibility. If this fact be constantly kept in view, due attention will be paid to the simpler treatment, the knife and sutures being reserved for those cases which are other- wise unmanageable. Strangulated hernia is of rare occurrence in childhood. When a hernia cannot be returned, the child should be at once placed upon his back, the pelvis raised as high as possible upon a pillow, and the knees tied up under the roof of a cradle, so that the blood may be encouraged to drain away from the congested piece of bowel, a little ice in a bladder being suspended over the tumour. As Pott says, “ The nearer the posture approaches to what is com- monly called standing on the head, the better.” In a recent case I actually hung a child up by his feet, the top of his head just resting on the bed. The bowel had been strangu- lated for many hours, during which time he had been constantly vomiting. The boy slept comfortably in this inverted position, and the bowel quickly went back. The child should be allowed nothing by the mouth. If the hernia persist, chloroform should be administered and taxis undertaken, with the understanding that, if this fail, a cutting operation must be performed. No doubt, the child is in danger so long as the hernia is imprisoned, and needless delay must, therefore, be avoided; but if the treat- ment suggested above be fully carried out, herniotomy is very rarely needed; in this respect the case differs widely from that of the adult. Later, when the child has recovered from the shock, the radical operation had better be performed. If, however, operation is required when the bowel is strangu- lated, the sac should be removed and the inguinal canal occluded as described on page 351. Femoral hernia is seldom met with, probably because, the pelvis not yet having taken on growth, there is sufficient resistance in the tissues filling up the space below PouparPs ligament. A reducible hernia must be treated on those principles which guide us in dealing Avitli an inguinal hernia. Case.—Laura G., six yeai’s, Avas brought to the Hospital for Sick Children, for a small tumour, just beloAv Pou part's ligament on the right side. The skin over it Avas red and (edematous. Her general condition Avas suggestive of enteric x