PHIMOSIS. 280 may be to cloud the brightest part of a boy’s life and to render him shy and unhappy. Ph imosis.—The prepuce may be so redundant as per- manently to conceal the glans, and, by its tight embrace, to prevent its proper development, rendering it corrugated and misshapen. The preputial orifice may be so small as to obstruct or prevent micturition. In the new-born infant the prepuce is large out of proportion to the size of the penis, and at that time definite adhesions exist between the glans and its covering. But although no surgical interference be adopted, the glans may be expected to advance and likewise the prepuce to retire. In foetal life the mucous layer of the prepuce is always blended with the glans ; with approaching birth the adhesion melts away. Adherence of the prepuce after birth is the result of arrested development. To draw back the foreskin is extremely advisable, lest the lingering adhesions undergo thickening. Adhesions may cause much discomfort in cradle life, and later may render the boy irritable and unmanageable. I must confess, however, in connection with this subject, that though I am a strong advocate for the prompt removal of a long or adherent prepuce, I have never met with a case in which articular disease or definite muscular contraction was obviously due to sub-preputial irritation. In every case the prepuce of the fretful, whining, and neurotic child- ought to be examined, and if there seem to be any redundancy, any adhesions, or any retention of smegma, circumcision should at once be done. It is only fair to the boy to insure freedom from irritation to a highly sensitive part. The reflex disturbances arising from preputial irritation sometimes closely simulate spinal disease and hip disease. A long prepuce is a constant source of danger to the child; it exposes the adult to grave annoyances, and the old man to the risk of epithelioma. If the prepuce cannot be completely retracted, the smegma cannot be cleaned from behind the glans, and, undergoing decomposition, it may set up inflammation and suppuration. Flat cakes of hardened smegma may often be distinguished through the prepuce, and sometimes small urinary calculi which have escaped from the meatus are imprisoned by it.