145 WARTS. direct injury or by the lodgment of a septic embolus. As this book is going through the press, I am seeing with Dr. Lees an infant with what we take to be a fusiform aneurysm of the common femoral artery; there is, however, no history of the infant having been hurt, nor is there any suspicion of his having been the subject of septic endo- carditis. (See article by R. W. Parker, “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. lxvii.) Warts (verructe) may be solitary or in clusters. Though often due to local irritation, sometimes there is no apparent cause for them. They consist of enlarged, branched papillae, on which epidermal scales are closely packed. They should be thickly and continuously covered with diluted red mercurial ointment, or by glycerine saturated with salicylic acid. Sulphate of magnesia should be given so as to keep up a gentle purgation. A pedunculated wart may be made to slough by strangling its base with a waxed thread. Warts upon the fingers, due to the irritation caused by the frequent contact with sub- preputial dischai’ge, disappear after circumcision has been performed. Onanism is said to be occasionally the cause of warts on girls’ fingers. In any case, warts usually dis- appear at, or soon after, puberty. Molluscum contagiosum.—The tumours vary in size from a minute speck to a pea; they may be still larger; often they are clustered. They are most frequently met with on the infant’s face ; and as tumours of an exactly similar nature may be found, at the same time, upon the breast or face of the mother, or on the face of some other member of the household, the disease is apparently contagious. In the centre of the growth a dark spot is visible (Plate IV. Fig. 2). The treatment consists in squeezing the little tumours between the thumb-nails; or they may be snipped off by a pair of fine scissors. It is unnecessary to touch with caustic the small wounds thus made. Boils (furunculi) are caused by acute inflammation about a sebaceous gland or a hair follicle, the result of inoculation of septic micrococci; death quickly follows in the minute piece of tissue thus implicated, and eventually the small gangrenous shred, “ the core,” is cast off. Until the boil breaks, or the K