FRACTURES. 382 deformity be found on the completion of union, it will be better to administer chloroform and to straighten the bone, the existence of epiphyseal cartilages being remembered. But if the deformity be not unsightly, it will be better (ensuring rest) to leave it to nature. With the growth of the bone, and with the absorption of the redundant callus, the angu- larity steadily diminishes. Thus, great improvement may be confidently looked for. Befracture should be undertaken only after the conclusion has been deliberately arrived at that the case is beyond the range of adequate improvement if left uninterfered with, for sometimes, after refracture having been performed, delayed union results. The clavicle of a weakly or rickety child may be broken by a small amount of violence. The child cries and does not move the arm, and a swelling quickly appears at the spot. To diminish as much as it possibly can the pressure on sensory nerves, the child holds his head down to the damaged side, shrugging up his shoulder, and it becomes a difficult matter for the surgeon thoroughly to inspect the part. Probably the periosteum will not be torn through. Occasionally, in very rickety subjects, both clavicles are found bent or broken. There will be no “ dropping of the shoulder,” as in the adult, and no search is to be made for crepitus. It suffices that the child has met with an accident, and that he now does not move his arm, that a tender swelling and an irregu- larity have suddenly appeared about the middle of the clavicle, and that the head and shoulder are approximated. Not infrequently the fracture is overlooked, and is discovered by the deformity which is manifested after the swelling and tenderness have subsided; but sometimes an angular, rickety bending of the clavicle is mistaken for an old and un- recognised fracture. Separation of the sternal epiphysis of the clavicle I have met with on one occasion. The appearances closely resemble those of dislocation; the presence of the epiphysis in its proper position makes the diagnosis clear. The treatment demands rest for the bone, by fixing the arm to the side with a few turns of a soft, wide roller, the hand being imprisoned as well. The turns of the roller may