ENCEPHALOCELE. 176 ntevus, though, like a namis, it may swell when the child cries. The diagnosis from a blood-tumour of the scalp is helped by the situation of the swelling ; the cephalhematoma (Chap. XXVII.) is usually over the middle of the parietalb one, where a meningocele would be unlikely to be found. The gentle squeezing of a blood-tumour would not give rise to cerebral disturbance ; meningocele is congenital, and some of its fluid can be squeezed into the cranium. Hydrocephalus suggests that the tumour has intra-cranial connections. I have known of a meningocele which, instead of protruding at the fronto-nasal region, had escaped through the suture between the orbital plate of the frontal bone and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, where its appearance so closely resembled that of a nasal polypus, that its removal was attempted with a pair of forceps—a proceeding which entailed a fatal attack of meningitis. The tumour may steadily decrease, and ossification may then block up the abnormal opening. If the growth be pedunculated, the weight may cause a gradual elongation and narrowing of the pedicle and ultimate separation from the cranial cavity. In some cases the tumour, continuing to grow, at last gives way, either from a sloughing of the thin integument, or from accidental violence. Fatal convulsions may result, but in rare cases obliteration of the tumour has thus been happily established. On tbe other hand, if the tumour escape injury, there is nothing in the deformity to prevent the child from growing up a useful, though perhaps a somewhat disfigured, member of society. The mere withdrawal of a little of the fluid may give rise to convulsions and death. If the tumour Avere translucent, unassociated Avith hydrocephalus, and in communication Avith the interior of the skull by a seemingly small gap, it might be expedient to treat it after the manner of a simple spina bifida. If its pedicle Avere slender and appeared solid, it might pos- sibly be removed by the knife or ligature. But active interference must needs be attended Avith considerable risk. Microcephalus.—Though the smallness of the head of certain idiotic children is not a surgical affection, it must just be mentioned, in order that something may be Avritten