FALLACIES. 47 of sponge. It cannot clear the trachea, because suction can be effected only under the influence of atmospheric pressure, and the lungs are a shut sac. Air locked in the bronchial tubes can hardly be possessed of sufficient expansive force to help the expulsion of mucus or membrane, even when a powerful suction is at work at the wound. But the surgeon is apt to lose sight of these facts when he sees his little patient failing to gain the expected relief. The intense anxiety which at this juncture he feels for the patient, for those to whom the young life is dear, and, let it be added, for the success of the operation itself, is apt to impel him to put his mouth to the wound. I am fully convinced of the futility of the act. It is as unsurgical as it is dan- gerous, and has caused the unavailing sacrifice of many a heroic life. It has been suggested that the trachea may be cleared by a catheter passed down the wound and fitted with an exhaust-ball. But even this scheme does not appear very practicable. Reliance should be placed rather upon the effect of firm pressure over the chest to drive up fluid or shreds. By turning the feather round in the trachea, or even in a bronchus, a more thorough, effectual clearing of the wind- pipe can be obtained than by any other method; but this must be resorted to only by the surgeon (not by the nurse), and then with equal gentleness and discretion. On no account should small pieces of cotton-Avool or sponge be introduced into the trachea, or even into the wound in the neck; they are apt to be carried adrift and to plug a bronchial tube. Artificial respiration should be resorted to on the conclusion of the operation if breathing be not established. It should be persevered in for half an hour, or even more. By this means life has been sometimes restored after all hope had been given up. Fallacies in the operation.—The skin-wound may be too low and too short: the trachea may have been dragged aside, or not sufficiently incised, so that the tube (especially if it be a round-ended one) does not enter, but slips down in front of it. The trachea may have been missed if the dissection were not kept absolutely in the middle line. If the wound in the