AMPUTATING AT IIIP JOINT. 431 called, “amyloid,” or “lardaceous” disease. There is, however, no connection with starch (a/j,v\o'?), nor with bacon-fat (lardum). One constantly meets with it in children who are subjects of chronic suppuration in connection Avith joint or spine disease. Probably it is due to septic absorption. It may also be met Avith in certain cases of congenital syphilis. It has been suggested that the infiltration is caused by the continued loss of certain blood-salts in the long-continued discharge; but this does not account for it in congenital syphilis, Avhere there is no suppuration. It is certain that it is a blood disease, and it makes itself manifest, first of all, in the arteries. Then there is an enormous deposit of this albuminoid material through the kidney, liver, and spleen, and a leakage of it takes place from the kidney into the abundant and limpid urine. The best method of amputating at the hip joint is a modification of Furneaux -Jordan’s operation:—-The limb having been Avashed and raised to empt}^ it of blood, an elastic tourniquet is applied as high up as possible. An assistant drags up the skin, grasping the thigh Avith the two hands, and the surgeon makes a clean circular sweep vertically upon the femur, saAving the bone in the upper third. The chief vessels are easily tied on the flat surface of the stump, and the com- pression is gradually relaxed. Bleeding having ceased, an incision is made, if necessary, along the outer side of the stump, and the end of the femur is loosened by a strong- raspatory, the periosteum being easily detached from it. In this Avay the loss of blood is diminished to the utmost, Avithout the disadvantage of aortic or rectal compression. The acetabulum is then scraped out and the Avhole area is washed with a solution of zinc chloride (grs. 5 to ^i); a drainage-tube is put in, and the rest of the Avound is closed Avith sutures. Amputation is specially indicated Avhen there is extensive pelvic disease. The operation is simple; it entails comparatively little shock; it leaves a long stump, and bone may become de- veloped in the periosteum, Avliich may eventually prove useful in the support of an artificial limb {Lancet, March 20, 1886). Trochanteric disease.—The epiphysis of the great tro- chanter begins to ossify in the fourth year, and joins the shaft