358 LATERAL CURVATURE. on her back on a firm conch, and, the pelvis having been brought flat and square, it must be seen whether the legs are of the same length, for a slight inequality may cause a tilting of the pelvis and the deflection of the lumbar spine. It is only in the early stages of lateral curvature that treatment can have a curative effect. Neither exercises nor supports of any sort can untwist the rotation of the spine, nor restore the original form to vertebrae which have once become misshapen by irregular pressure. Treatment.—The spinal muscles should be so strengthened by exercise that the patient may sustain an improved position without great fatigue. At first she may be able to maintain it only for a few seconds, but strength comes with exercise of the muscles. The thorax should be developed by systematic breathing, and by methodical exercises acting directly upon the ribs. Gymnastics and movements are designed on the Ling-system of Swedish exercises, and are best carried out in classes, or under the special supervision of a well-trained and competent instructress. They should not be conducted so as to leave the child fatigued. In the introduction of the exer- cise-treatment Roth has done much good work. Boys are so rarely the subjects of lateral curvature, chiefly because in their games they use all their muscles, and do not sit cramped over music or needlework, nor, as a rule, too much over books, as girls are apt to do. Swinging by the hands from a horizontal bar, firmly fixed by staples and cord from the top of a door- way, is a good exercise. It gives the intervertebral disc the chance of re-expansion, strengthens the scapular muscles, and probably helps in undoing some rotation of the vertebrae. After the exercises the patient should again place herself squarely in a reclining chair; she should not stand about. She should not be allowed to cross the thighs when sitting, as this act tilts the pelvis; standing on one leg is also harmful. A good deal may be done by vigorous manipulation of the child’s trunk as she lies flat upon the table, the convexity of the lateral curves being boldly drawn in opposite directions. Parents are often solicitous that some support be ordered; occasionally, indeed, they go to a shop and buy one for them- selves, either without, or contrary to, the advice of the medical attendant.