45 TEA CHEO TOMY- T UBES. become blocked. A suture may be applied at the ends of the skin wound after the tube has been inserted. While fully recognising the disadvantages of a tube after opening the trachea, I do not yet see my way to dispensing with it. Without doubt, a handy and trustworthy substitute for the tube is much to be desired, but it is obviously not safe to stitch the tracheal wound to the skin and leave the child without any tube. Tying in.—When the breathing has settled down, the tapes are adjusted, and tied in a double bow at the side of the neck. The tape should be narrow enough to run easily through the slit in the tube-plate, and, being pointed, is quickly threaded through the plate, as it rests upon the skin of the neck. Lawyer’s red tape serves well. A slit about half an inch long should have been cut in the middle line of the tape, near the end to be threaded, and the running end afterwards drawn through it, as shown in Fig. 2. Until the tapes are securely fastened, a finger should be kept on the plate of the tube to prevent its being forced out of place by a cough. A scrap of gauze, appropriately notched, should be covered with vaseline and slid upwards between the shield of the tube and the skin. It may be changed every few hours, and another piece of gauze, dipped in a lotion of sanitas or carbolic acid, may be lightly placed across the opening of the tube and the front of the neck as an antiseptic respirator. Before leaving the nurse in charge of the case, the surgeon should see that she has sufficient skill and confidence to take out, cleanse, dry, lubricate, and re-insert the inner tube. In the early days after the tracheotomy there is so much viscid mucus that the inner tube is of great convenience. But when matters have quieted down, and the passage into the trachea is lined with granulations, a single tube may be substituted, b or this Baker s indiarubber tubes serve well. They are not so convenient for introduction at the time of operation as is the bivalve tube. Before insertion, the tube is soaked in hot water and lubricated with vaseline 5 oil should not be used. Its introduction may be facilitated by cutting the end obliquely, or by sending it down over a flexible catheter used as a guide ; or it may be slipped in between the