STONE IN THE BLADDER. 299 tion, may be elongated and inflamed. Occasionally his fingers may be found white and sodden, like a washerwoman’s, from constant soaking in the escaping urine. The referred pain at the end of the penis may be likened to that at the knee in liip-joint disease, and may be ascribed to some confusion in transmission through the sacral plexus to the grey matter of the cord—branches of that plexus supply bladder, penis, and prepuce. The converse ot the proposition is found in the vesical irritation which is the result of a long foreskin (see Fig. 68). Yesical irritation, or, as the parents call it, “ weakness of the bladder,” is often cured by circumcision (page 292). Sometimes, and especially so in girls, there may be little more than “weakness” of the bowel, or tenesmus, to suggest the presence of vesical calculus. When two or more of the symptoms detailed above co- exist, the prepuce should be carefully examined, or the child sounded. The persistence of any one of these symptoms should be the hint to sound, and although no stone be found, the mere passage of the instrument often effects a cure. If the result of the sounding be negative, and the symptoms continue, the child should be sounded again and again; for the calculus, if very minute, may escape detection on the first or second occasion, though, as a rule, if a stone be there, it is discovered on the first entrance of the sound. Unless the stone be very small, it may be felt by digital examination per anum, especially if the bladder be emptied, and the pelvis be raised so that the stone may fall into the fundus. If the meatus urinarius be small, or the child frightened, it will be better to “ put him to sleep ” before sounding, as by a sudden movement the urethra might be damaged. By e!SS59^~ • ----- ■■ J) Pig. G9.—The Best Form of Sound. The handle is cylindrical, and of metal, and the beak is short. engaging a child in earnest conversation on such a topic as that of the names of his brothers, or of his future walk in life, the surgeon may often manage to slip in the warm and well-lubricated sound (Fig. 69) before apprehension is aroused. The sound should have a beak rather larger than the shaft, and