28 DIPHTHERIA. But to say that intubation may first be tried, and that if this fail, tracheotomy may then be resorted to, is to deal unfairly with the patient, and to discredit tracheotomy. Tra- cheotomy, though a delicate operation, is not a “ dangerous ” one, and can better be carried out by the unpractised hand than can intubation ; moreover, when the silver tube has entered the trachea, much of the anxiety of the case is at an end. The argument which is sometimes advanced that parents will allow a bloodless operation and refuse consent to a cutting operation is altogether outside the question: everything de- pends upon the way the proposition is placed before them. So far as I remember, I have never known consent refused to the performance of tracheotomy when the surgeon has said, “ The operation which is recommended is not a prolonged or dan- gerous one; the child, being under chloroform, will feel nothing of it; it will surely prevent his dying from imminent suffoca- tion, and it may be the means of saving his life.” Probably life has never been saved b}^ intubation in a case in which tracheotomy would have failed, whereas the very fact of intubation being not infrequently supplemented by tracheotomy shows that the converse of the proposition by no means holds good. According to Prof. Escherich, the disadvantages of intuba- tion comprise a troublesome cough and the risk of ulceration by pressure of the tube; the difficulty of swallowing fluids, and of expectorating, and, lastly, the insufficient supply of air —as compared with that admitted by tracheotomy. Briefly, my opinion of intubation is similar to that of my colleague, Mr. Morgan, who said in a clinical lecture on this subject: “ It is sometimes a useful plan to follow after tracheotonry has been performed, and where there is difficulty in dispensing with the tracheotomy tube. But Avith these exceptions the plan has not given such satisfactory results as Avere pro- mised.” Mr. Pitts also says that, Avithout special study, tracheotomy is undoubtedly the safer operation. The convalescence from diphtheria is full of anxiety. Fre- quently, Avhen it seems Avell established, the child begins to fail from an unAvillingness to take food, or from an inability to retain or digest it. Sometimes a sudden attack of dyspnoea or rapid exhaustion ends the scene. Fatal collapse may be