INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 2 movement of the mouth may give evidence of the manipula- tion causing pain, though the child, from very bravery, does not confess to being hurt. If at the time of the visit the child be asleep, part of the examination or inspection may be carried out before he wakes. The first part of the examination should consist in the careful comparison of the land-marks; little by little, further information may be sought. The endurance of the child must not be overtaxed; and he must not be made to cry, as the case might then be spoilt for complete examination. But having once told the child that something must be examined, some little thing done, the same must be accom- plished; he will soon find that firmness is not incompatible with kindness, and on the next occasion he will behave better. When about to inflict necessary pain, the surgeon should on no account assure the child that he is not going to hurt. If it be a question of obscure pain or weakness in spine or limbs, it is expedient to have the child stripped of all his clothes, and to watch him leave or enter his bed; to see him Avalk (page 166), stoop (page 251), or run. This can be accomplished without needless exposure and chilling ; but a child cannot be satisfactorily examined with his clothes on. Temperature.—Useful as the thermometer is in clinical work, too close an attention to its readings in the case of sick children may cause unnecessary alarm. The temperature has to be considered in conjunction with other indications; but anxious parents, nurses, and not a few young practitioners seem to regard the thermometric chart as the one, almost the only, trustworthy index of the child’s physical condition. Sometimes, indeed, in private practice, I forbid a child’s temperature being taken, Avell knoAving that, in my absence, the entire household is apt to be upset by an unfavourable change in its reading. There is an art in taking a tempera- ture, and not everyone, not even every nurse, has acquired it. Gifford Nash (Lancet, vol. ii., 1895) has instanced tAvo curious examples of error Avhich resulted from the thermometer being put into the mouth shortly after the patient had taken hot food. A high temperature may be of little moment if the aspect of the child be serene, and there be neither irritability nor