64 TUBERCULOSIS. spontaneously, either by the contents being absorbed or by escaping to the surface. Still, realising the fact that they are centres from which the bacilli may infect the system, the sooner that they are incised and thoroughly scraped out the better. So also with regard to the tuberculous ulcers which are apt to remain after the spontaneous evacuation of the nodules. The wounds thus made are conveniently dressed with dry boracic lint. Lupus is a chronic, painless dermatitis often met with in tuberculous children. The surface of the skin is dusky red, and in its depths is a diffused mass of unhealthy granulation- tissue, which, breaking down, and destroying the superficial layer of the skin, causes a spreading ulceration. Though its favourite seat is the face—and especially the nose—it may occur on any part of the body, and give rise to unsightly devastations. Around the chief focus of the disease glazed papules may be found ready to merge into the original sore. Sometimes the granulation-tissue becomes slowly transformed into cicatricial tissue, without the occurrence of ulceration. The bacilli are difficult of discovery, and the disease never gives rise to general tuberculosis. The treatment must be very thorough. The patches should be freely dissected away, or efficiently dealt with by means of the sharp spoon or thermo-cautery. Lupus cannot be cured by medicines, though cod-liver oil and iron are useful adjuncts to operative measures. When a large area of skin is implicated, it should be boldly and cleanly dissected off, and, the oozing from the raw surface having been checked by pressure, aseptic grafts of the superficial layer of the skin of the thigh should be applied, after the method of Thiersch. Tuberculous ulceration is generally quiet and painless. Though sometimes surrounded by undermined and dusky edges, at other times the sores are covered with granulations, which, but for a want of energy, look fairly promising. Healing is not influenced by drugs, diet, or local applications. The sore may fill up for a while, and then break down again. Nothing short of a thorough scraping avails, the edges being at the same time shaved away. If the sore be upon an ex- tremity, a splint must be applied to the limb to ensure perfect rest. (For Tuberculous Glands see page 103.)