150 HYDRO-THORAX. instrument is to be thrust into the chest close over the upper border of the lower rib. It must be sent in with a short, sharp plunge. If the end of the index finger be fixed on the instrument at about an inch and a half from the point, it is unlikely that the lung will be wounded. If the flow suddenly stops, in all probability there is something blocking the end of the tube, and a little judicious movement may re-start the full stream. As the serum gradually ceases to flow, the tube is withdrawn; if a simple cannula be used, the end should first be blocked with the finger, so as to keep air out of the cavity. If the aspirator be used, the vacuum must not be very thorough, lest the expanding lung be sucked over the tube and its surface capillaries ruptured. The cannula must be withdrawn when the flow begins to get irregular. A cough which is apt to occur as the fluid escapes shows that the lung has not lost its power of re-expansion. The cough tears through adhesions, and is, therefore, beneficial “within reasonable limits,” but if the child continue to cough, or if blood appear in the fluid, the cannula should be withdrawn. In rare instances air leaks into the Avound, and, being pumped omvards by the respiratory movements, emphysema is a temporary result. Even if no air have entered the cavity, suppuration may follow the operation; rarely in childhood does the fluid remain clear and limpid. Occasionally, after the tapping, the lung expands forthwith, and the thoracic troubles entirely disappear. In other cases the favourable .result folloAvs after repeated punctures. If it be uncertain Avhether there be fluid in the pleural cavity, or Avhether the fluid be serous or purulent, an ex- ploratory puncture should be resorted to Avithout hesitation, but care must be taken lest a sudden movement- of the child cause the needle to break off short. It is far safer to use a special exploring syringe than a hypodermic needle. Fallacies.—Although the chest may contain much fluid, the aspirator is occasionally unable, even in childhood, to effect its withdrawal. This may be due to the fact that the lung is solidly compressed against the spinal column, and unable to expand; that the diaphragm fails to rise,