40 TRACHEOTOMY. tlie jugular and epigastric regions do not markedly fall in with inspiration ; this shows that the lungs are already engorged, and that the energetic inspiratory effort is failing to produce a partial vacuum. Nevertheless, even if it is evident that the lungs are implicated, the surgeon should give the child the benefit of tracheotomy. Oxygen is a wonderful tonic, and its admission into the lungs—late though it be— may possibly save the child. Anaesthetics.—Except in those rare and urgent cases where time does not permit of it, chloroform should always be administered. If the child be frightened, he may be “put to sleep ” before being taken from the cot. The chloroform may be administered on a handkerchief, a few drops being sprinkled on it to begin with ; only a small quantity will be required. If the child be unconscious, or moribund, one operates forthwith, possibly the only instruments at hand being a penknife and a swan-quill. I have never operated without chloroform, and I have never seen any harm what- ever caused by the anaesthetic. Putting all sentiment aside— so far as I am able—I deem the advice to refuse its adminis- tration in these cases, to say the least, unkind. Of course, the chloroform must be used with care and discretion, as the child’s blood is already imperfectly aerated. The instruments and material required are: Chloroform, sharp scalpel, two pairs of dissecting forceps, several pairs of pressure-forceps, steel director, scissors, sharp hook, simple dilator, various silver-plated tubes, a few ligatures, needle and suture, small sponges, feathers, gauze dressing, and tape. These should be obtainable at a moment’s notice. The instruments should be boiled in soda solution after being used, as at any time they may be needed for a non-diphtheritic patient. I strongly disapprove of their being kept in a velvet- lined case. Brandy, and a syringe for its subcutaneous in- jection, and vaseline, should also be at hand. Operation.—The low chest of drawers or table on which the child is to be placed should be in the best light obtain- able, against a window or under the gas. If the operation be done after daylight, it will be well to have a supply of lamps or candles placed about. In a small room, with a single gas-jet from the middle of the ceiling, it will be ,