ENLARGEMENT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 112 When the operator is dragging up and dissecting around an enlarged gland, the vein may be so much raised that the adjacent part becomes kinked and flat, and may then be readily cut. It is well, therefore, during the progress of the dissection, to pause, from time to time and allow the gland to drop back, and to see if the vein fills up and becomes evident. When the surgeon knows the exact position of the vein, he is less likely to wound it. But, having cut it, I deem it unsafe to close the wound in its wall by a superficial, lateral ligature, or by fine suturing. The right thing to do is to clear the vein, to tie it above and below the wound, and to divide it. I have had to do this many a time, and I have never known any trouble follow. In one of my cases, with a mass of tuberculous glands which stretched from occiput to collar-bone, the internal jugular vein was wounded so near to the base of the skull that it was found to be impossible to apply a ligature. The vein had, therefore, to be seized with a pair of pressure-forceps at the posterior lacerated foramen; these were left on for forty-eight hours. The result proved entirely satisfactory. For the first day or two the temperature may rise a degree or more above 99°, but it soon comes down to, and tracks along, the normal line. Sometimes the operation is followed by a little local oedema, but this also quickly passes away. A great feature of the case is that, as a rule, the general con- dition of the child is greatly improved by the local clearance —an improvement such as is often noted on clearing out a tuberculous mass from the knee-joint by arthrectomy. Primary union cannot be secured in all cases; ever}'thing depends upon the condition of the overlying or surrounding skin. If this be dusky and implicated, or be represented by unhealthy, “rotten” scar-tissue which has inevitably to be scraped away, sutures would be out of place. It is better, then, that the wound be allowed to granulate up from its depths. But if, as too seldom happens, the case has come early under operation whilst the tuberculous process is con- fined within the limits of the gland-capsule, and the skin is perfectly sound, the result is extremely satisfactory. Indeed, it is in every respect a most excellent operation. In many cases its success proves greater than could have been