TUMOURS. 122 In other instances, death may be caused by the exhaustion attendant on ulceration, suppuration, or haemorrhage. Sarcoma of the kidney is not an uncommon disease in infancy and childhood; I have performed nephrectomy in four such cases, but with only one successful result. As a rule, the diagnosis of malignant disease is not made until the growth has assumed considerable size, and by this time dissemination may have taken place in the lungs or elsewhere. By this time, also, the child may have become thin and miserable, and unlikely to survive the ordeal of nephrectomy. The prominent feature of renal sarcoma is its painlessness. It grows to an enormous size, pushing the liver or diaphragm upward, and impeding respiration. It strips up the perito- neum also from the flank, thrusts the intestines across to the opposite side of the abdomen, and bulges as a rounded tumour from the costal cartilages to Poupart’s ligament, causing also a fulness between the lowest ribs and the back of the iliac crest. It may even bulge across the median line. The whole region of the tumour is dull on percussion. The tumour may seem to fluctuate. The stretched and shining skin is generally marked with dilated veins. Diagnosis.—At first there may be uncertainty as to whether the tumour may not be a hydronephrosis (page 297), or a large abscess. This is cleared up by the introduction of a hollow needle from the loin, only a few drops of blood escaping. There is not necessarily hsematuria. Treatment.—An incision should be made through the linea semilunaris and the parietal peritoneum, and, the in- testines having been drawn aside, the peritoneum should be again incised to the outer side of the colon—so as to avoid the colic artery. Then the renal capsule should be incised, and the growth extracted from within. If the capsitle has already been traversed by the growth, a rapid and vigorous attempt should be made to clear away all the outlying malignant tissue; and so also with regard to neighbouring enlarged lymphatic glands. Every precaution should be taken against shock, and the operation should be performed as quickly as possible, as well as at as early a date as possible. The prognosis is desperately bad, but thorough operation affords the only prospect of recovery.