DISEASE OF THE ANKLE JOINT. 462 Care is required to determine if the disease be in the joint itself or in some extra-articular bursa, or other structure, the joint itself being free. In each case there would be swelling, ineptitude to motion, and pain ; but when the articulation is implicated, the synovial fulness is found to be beneath the tendons at the front of the joint, around the malleoli, and at the back—the posterior bulging being on each side of the tendon of Achilles, so that the tendon lies in the depths of a soft mass.which swells up on each side of it. Extra-articular abscess could not give rise to such universal fulness. Other morbid conditions, from which the ankle disease has to be diagnosed, are inflammation of the astragalo-scaphoid joint, and caries of the astragalus, calcaneum, or scaphoid. In the first case, the universal swelling about the tibio-tarsal junction would be absent, and the tendons just above the front of the ankle joint Avould not be obscured by effusion, and probably the movements of that joint would be but little, if at all, interfered with. With astragalo-scaphoid disease the chief part of the red- ness and swelling are over the front of the head of the astragalus, rather than at the line of the larger joint. If the disease be confined to the os calcis, the skin about the heel is red, whilst the movements of the ankle joint are free. When an inflammation has been lurking long about the astra- galus, or one of the lower synovial membranes connected with it, the morbid process may eventually spread to and involve the ankle joint. These cases are generally tuberculous. It is far less important, however, to be able to say exactly where the disease is situated than it is to be thorough in deal- ing with it. If I may be allowed to write, it, there is often too much supineness in dealing with cases of apparently slight articular disease. A week’s complete rest for a limb is really no great infliction for a child, whilst it may preserve him from a lengthened period of articular disease. Parents are, as a rule, very averse from having a child kept from play or school because of a <! sprained ankle,” and the}'' are under the in- fluence of that widespread superstition that the child will suffer from being kept in bed. The risk is invariably in the opposite direction. The treatment of acute synovitis of the ankle consists in