treatment. 463 complete rest, the adjustment of rectangular splints, and as much even compression as the inflamed tissues will bear. The leg and foot should be raised upon a pillow. A little castor oil may be required, and maltine and cod-liver oil or iron may prove useful. If abscess follow, the constitutional disturbance increases, and the joint becomes more hot and swollen. An incision should be made into the most prominent part ot the swelling; this will probably be out of the way of either of the tibial arteries. The joint should be washed out Avith percliloride lotion, packed around Avith absorbent dressings, and perma- nently steadied by rectangular splints of leather or gypsum, Avithout drainage being resorted to. Before fixing the foot at a right angle, it is often expedient to divide the tendon of Achilles. After the tenotomy the position of the foot can be rectified Avith far less strain and disturbance at the joint. Suppuration of the ankle joint is often determined by septic ostitis at the posterior end of the diaphysis of the os calcis (page 486), especially if there have been delay in clean- ing out the primary focus. Such cases are apt to entail the resort to Syme’s amputation. The inflammation may be chronic from the beginning, the joint being enlarged on account of the SAvollen synovial mem- brane. The skin is marbled and the muscles of the leer and thigh are wasted. The disease is tuberculous and may run its destructive course Avithout the formation of abscess, even though the ligaments have disappeared and the cartilages have undergone extensive ulceration. A gypsum casing, or leather splints, moulded from the roots of the toes Avell up the leg, may be adjusted. With this protection the child may be carried about the house or taken into the open air. If he can be trusted with crutches, his leg may be fixed in a Thomas’s splint, as for knee-disease (Fig. 114), and he may then daily attend school, if appropriate arrangements can be made Avith the teacher. The foot must be persistently kept at a right angle. Much time Avill elapse before the joint is fit for work; it may be a question of months, or possibly even of years. But neither surgeon nor parent must be discouraged; care must be taken that the foot is never put to the ground, and that