33 COXVA LE SO ENTS. can cover liis other clothes. But it is usually impracticable to carry out this desirable precaution. At any rate, it must be remembered that infection may be carried about by the clothes, by the surgeon’s beard, and particularly by the nurse’s frizzled hair. Those about the child should be careful not to inspire whilst leaning over to swab the throat or to free the tube-. And when the child coughs through the mouth or tube, there should be no thoughtless exposure to the column of expired air. Lastly, if death should release the child, the sooner the body is removed from the house the better. On no account should friends or relatives, who have hitherto been denied intercourse with the sick-room, be now admitted. The last offices should be quickly performed, the body being en- closed in the shell together with plenty of carbolic acid powder, chlorinated lime, or other disinfectant. The funeral should take place within forty-eight hours after death, and should not be an occasion of a gathering of friends or relations. Books and playthings which were used during the illness should be burnt; the pillows and bed- linen should be efficiently “ stoved,” and the room and its contents disinfected with sulphurous acid vapour and steam. Convalescents from diphtheria should be regarded with suspicion, and kept apart from playmates and schoolfellows. Though the attack may have been slight, and its manifesta- tions have definitely passed away, convalescents may carry about with them, probably on the pharyngeal or nasal lining, bacilli which may cause the disease in a far more serious form than that from which they have so happily recovered. As to what the length of the quarantine should be I cannot say definitely, but I would insist on forty-two days. It has been suggestively remarked that there is as much diphtheria out of bed as in bed, and nearly as much out of doors as indoors. The tonsils may long remain swollen, and their dilated crypts may contain diphtheritic membrane which, at this stage of the disease, if seen for the first time, might suggest simple follicular tonsillitis. In the case of a child at school having been the subject of diphtheria, I D