395 OF FEMUR. the case Avere seen directly after the accident, the exact diagnosis might be obscured by effusion; lateral movement, and possibly crepitus, are the chief signs. It is hardly likely that there would be much displacement, unless the violence were great, or the fracture compound. The injury is best treated by placing the knee in the extended position in a small McIntyre splint, or in a plastic one moulded on the limb, the tendon of Achilles having been divided. The part must be inspected from time to time, Avitliout disturbing the fragments. If the popliteal vessels are pressed upon, gangrene may result. In any case, the injury is very serious. Sometimes reduction cannot be effected Avithout operation, and in a considerable number of cases amputation has, for one cause or another, been eventually demanded. Sometimes the separation of the epiphysis is associated with a vertical fracture into the joint. At other times violence stops short of the separation of the epiphysis, but causes an oblique fracture into the joint betAveen the condyles. The looseness of the condyle points to the nature of the injury. The upper epiphysis of the tibia, which includes the tubercle, is united with the shaft at about the tAventy-second year, and the loAver joins at about the eighteenth year. In simple fractures of the bones of the leg in childhood, the most convenient treatment is Avitli the lateral splints of plaster of Paris. The knee can thus be bent, the limb laid on its side, and all tension taken from the gastrocnemius. The even compression, if applied early enough, preATents the occur- rence of swelling and ensures rest. If a rickety child be the subject of fracture in the thigh or leg of a valgous or othenvise deformed limb, the parts should be arranged so as to effect the greatest amount of improve- inent in appearance. During the confinement of the child in bed, the other limb, if that be also deformed, Avill likewise undergo considerable improvement (page 85). Compound fractures do better in children than in adults; the kidneys of children have not been damaged by high living and alcoholic irritation, nor has the system been taxed by over-AV’ork, and by the Avorry and anxiety inseparable from the struggle for existence. Suddenly incapacitated from lessons