SG PIGEON-BREAST. Deformities in the upper extremity.—When a heavy, rachitic child, unable to walk, is allowed to crawl, the radius and ulna, as well as the humerus, may yield under his weight and become greatly deformed. Equable compression upon a well-padded splint, together with massage, usually suffices to get the bone straight again. But if the bending is consider- able, and somewhat angular, it may be well to give the bone a forcible straightening under chloroform, fixing it subse- quently on a splint. For the angular bending of the clavicles which is often met with in rachitic children no local treatment can be adopted. So prominent is the bend in some cases that the deformity looks like a green-stick fracture; but there is no effusion or tenderness about the part, as there would be with fracture. Pigeon-breast is produced in the rickety or sof't-boned child by the bending inwards of the anterior extremities of the ribs.—probably under the influence of the energetic con- traction of the diaphragm. Thus the chest is compressed from side to side, whilst the antero-posterior measurement is increased (Plate II.). This is caused by the imperfect expan- sion of the chest during inspiration, and may be secondary to post-nasal growths (page 206), or to chronic enlargement of the tonsils. Laryngismus stridulus, a common affection of rickety children, may also cause pigeon-breast. 'During inspiration a partial vacuum is produced in the interior of the thorax, and the atmospheric pressure upon the outside of the chest restores the balance by forcing inwards the most pliant part of the thoracic wall. Shaw reported an interesting example of this :—A little boy with enlarged tonsils suffered great diffi- culty in breathing; he was pigeon-breasted. An attack of ex- treme dyspnoea demanded the performance of tracheotomy; a few days later the tonsils were amputated, the chest filled itself with air during each inspiratory act, and the costal deformity vanished. The general health must be improved by iron, cod-liver oil, quinine, and lime-water; the condition of the alimentary canal must be regulated, and obstructed entrance of air must be corrected. Compression by truss or bandage is not only unnecessary, but actually harmful. Often in the course of the day, the hand of the nurse or mother should, by firm and