SPINA L GABIES. 264 large proportion of them does,, and this happy result should always be aimed at. The routine employment of drainage- tubes in the treatment of spinal abscesses is a thing of the past. The presence of a tube in the cavity was a constant source ol danger, and if the large cavity became inoculated with pus-producing organisms the result was extremely serious. If the surgeon prefer it, he may attack the psoas or iliac abscess from the front, and, guided by a long director, may then make the loin opening. This may, perhaps, make the operation easier, and render the cleaning out of the cavity more thorough. Both openings are then to be tightly stitched up. As regards the exploration of the diseased vertebrae through the lumbar opening, the method is of no great importance. Sometimes, on exploring, the cords of the lumbar plexus are felt stretching through the pus, which has effected the complete disappearance of the substance of the psoas. Sometimes carious bone can be felt, or the diseased vertebrae covered with soft granulations. At other times all is anatomical darkness. At present, at any rate, the carious vertebrae are beyond the reach of active interference. The exploration is more a matter of interest than of thera- peutic value. On rare occasions it has happened that a hernia of bowel has followed in the track of an extinct spinal abscess after the skin-wound had soundly healed, and that the tumour has been opened in mistake for a recurrence of abscess. A lumbar hernia would probably be resonant on percussion, and entirely reducible. (See Brit. Med. Journal, May 5, 1888.) It is unpractical to look forward to the spontaneous absorption of a spinal abscess; sooner or later it must be evacuated by nature or art. In this matter art has the advantage, as by her aid the cavity can be at once emptied and cleansed, and its walls brought together. The earlier the abscess is opened, the better; for a delay may entail the extravasation of pus, and the formation of a needlessly large and intractable cavity. Warm iodine-water (decolorised b}r the addition of a little