SYPHILIS. 98 llie voice of a syphilitic infant may, from chronic laryn- gitis, be faint, or harsh and unmusical. The cry is very characteristic. Syphilitic synovitis, as the result of hereditary disease, is a very quiet and chronic affection, and though its favourite seat is the knee, it may be met with in other joints, especially the elbow and wrist (Fig. 15). The age at which it usually occurs is from six years upwards. It is a diffuse, cellular infiltration of the synovial membrane. There is neither the thickening, nor the limitation of movement, which generally accompanies tuberculous synovitis, and there is neither heat of surface nor enlargement of bone. There is often, how- ever, a considerable amount of fluid in the joint. If the knee is affected, the child is usually found limping, and, perhaps, complaining of pains at night, which are generally symmetrical, sooner or later. Not infrequently these cases escape diagnosis for a while, because of their rarity, but as soon as suspicion is aroused, and the cornea, the teeth, the skull, and the epiphyses are examined, and the family history is inquired into, the diagnosis becomes abundantly clear. The synovitis often runs concurrently with interstitial keratitis. Treatment consists in mercurial inunction, or in the ad- ministration of grain-doses of grey powder, the joints being evenly compressed between lateral splints of gypsum. Massage and douchings should also be resorted to. The child’s health must be improved to the utmost. The prognosis is good. There is another form of syphilitic affection of the joints, in which a gummatous infiltration renders the synovial mem- brane thick and irregular. It is associated with disease of the epiphyses, and also of the diaphyses, and the extension of the syphilitic granulation-tissue through the end of the bone and through the articular cartilage, may entail destruction of the joint. As a rule, there are unmistakable evidences in the child of hereditary disease, and if the treatment sketched above do not suffice for the cure, small doses of iodide of potassium may be given. Syphilitic inflammation of the vertebrae is not of common occurrence, and its diagnosis is apt to be overlooked unless attention be aroused by the recognition of osteal or synovial affections in the limbs, or of signs in the teeth or face.