HIP-JOINT DISEASE. 42S system can bear up against; but even then the fatal event has merely been advanced a little. Lastly, as regards length and strength and usefulness of the limb, it is generally a dis- appointment even at the best. In my opinion, the operation should be resorted to only when further reliance cannot be safely placed upon conservative measures. Operation.—The buttock and thigh should be carefully cleansed. The child should be exposed as little as possible, and should be placed on a hot-water mattress. If he is very feeble, a brandy-and-water enema should be gjiven just before taking him from his bed. The operation should be conducted with as little cutting as possible, old sinuses being used whenever they may serve. The head of the bone may generally be removed by cutting forceps. If, as often happens, the larger trochanteric epi- physis be detached as the raspatory is being used to clear the upper end of the femur, and it appear healthy, it had better be left with its muscular connections uninterfered Avith. The muscles and other tissues around the joint should not be dis- turbed more than is absolutely necessary. Every ulcer and fistula should be scraped and disinfected. All diseased syn- ovial membrane should be erased, and all granulation-tissue and denuded osseous surfaces thoroughly scraped. If the existing sinuses do not serve for the excision-Avound, and if suppuration is likely to persist, the joint had better be attacked from behind, through the Avasted gluteus maximus, as the posterior Avound ansAvers extremely well for drainage. Only in rare instances is excision, Avhen performed late in the disease, folloAved by speedy recovery. When acetabular disease exists, thorough scraping Avith a Yolkmann’s spoon is necessary, sequestra being picked out. The cavity should be stuffed Avith carbolised gauze, and a thick pad of absorbent avooI should be firmly band- aged round the hip. The limb may be fixed at rest by a stirrup and Aveight; it is better not to apply a splint. Next day the Avound must be dressed under an anaesthetic, and much less stuffing left in the cavity. An excellent lotion is iodine Avater decolorised by carbolic acid; carbolic lotion should not be used too freely, as children often shoAV great intolerance of it (page 9). The compression should be