396 FRACTURES. or play, the child’s present and future are as free from care as the past is from regrets. Children live from day to day, and, like the lower animals, which in many respects they closely resemble, they bear serious injuries with patience, and generally surmount them with triumph. The popular idea is that a child frets and grows thin if kept in bed Aveek after Aveek. As a matter of fact, hoAvever, children bear confine- ment better than adults. All that is needed is that they be made to realise the fact that they are under authority, and must be obedient. Weak or indulgent parents, and family nurses—especially if they are old and “ experienced ”—are rarely fitted for the charge of sick children, and in most cases the services of a hospital nurse are of ecpial advantage to the child and assistance to the medical attendant. Nature, so generous and thoughtful in most respects, shows, as a rule, but little skill and discrimination in the matter of parental selection. Fracture of the skull.—Children may recover from des- perate injuries to the head, for the brain is in an imperfect stage of development. I have seen the side of the skull deeply indented from a kick, a great portion of the parietal bone being thrust iirwards; yet, Avithout interference, the elasticity of the bone has effaced the dent, and all signs of disturbance have passed aAvay. Even Avitli the occurrence of symptoms of compression, the surgeon should hesitate before proceeding to trephine. Nature should be afforded full opportunity of working recovery in her oavu Avay. If, hoAvever, depression be obvious and persistent, the use of the trephine and of the elevator must be resorted to. On account of the thinness of the skull bones, punctured wounds of the brain are apt to occur, but though the instru- ment causing the puncture may have been driven several inches Avithin the skull, still no symptoms may arise. Later, hoAvever, intracranial haemorrhage or suppuration might occur, Avith symptoms of compression. In eA'ery case of punctured fracture trephining should at once be done, in order that spicules of bone Avhich have been splintered from the skull-wall may be removed. If the case be left to take its course, although the child may have no intracranial haemorrhage or suppuration, thickening may occur in the