TREATMENT. 165 bromide of potassium may allay irritability. Leeches, a mustard poultice, or a stronger irritant, may be placed over the cervical or lumbar enlargement of the cord, as the case may be. But until tenderness has disappeared from the limb, or the general disquietude has passed away, and until it has become evident which muscles are affected, electrical treat- ment should not be resorted to. Nor is it advisable to alarm and worry the child with electricity for the purpose of diagnosis until his health is re-established and appre- hension has passed away. The circulation and development being slow, the limb should be enclosed in a thick stocking or sleeve, the interior of which is lined with lamb’s wool. Frictions, in the direction of the venous return, should be performed in front of the fire at frequent intervals during the day. The mother or nurse may be instructed in the principles of massage, and more faith may be placed in this than in the employment of electricity. The treatment must be persisted in, if necessary, for months or years. As Holmes suggests, much good may result from putting the child in a “go-cart,” when, in order to move about, the affected muscles must be called upon to act. If the child jDOssess sufficient intelligence, he must be induced to try to set the feeble muscles in action by force of will, and his games and toys should be arranged with regard to this matter. The continuous current will serve to assist nutrition until the central damage has been repaired. Later, the inter- rupted current may be used, the strength being just sufficient to produce a visible effect; but electricity cannot restore connection between nerve fibre and cell, nor create fresh elements in the damaged grey crescent. Improvement, ex- cepting in those muscles which have already shown signs of amendment, can scarcely be hoped for after the lapse of eight or ten months from the commencement of the disease. Iron and strychnia may be prescribed, and the limb should be rubbed with oil. In paralysis of the flexors of the ankle, the foot must not be allowed to become extended to more than a right angle, or the toes will be in the way during progression. Frictions and manipulations may do much towards preventing such deformity; but a stiff boot, or Achilles-tenotomy may be