174 ACUTE HYDROCEPHALUS. Compression by elastic bands or strapping is of no value. In one case the ethmoid bone was disarticulated by the pres- sure, and death supervened. The intracranial pressure which is ordinarily associated with hydrocephalus is likely to deter- mine cranio-tabes (pages 68 and 95), or even general fenes- tration of the skull. On the chance of the trouble being due to syphilis, mercurial treatment may be tried. Acute hydrocephalus is the result of tuberculous inflam- mation of the membranes of the brain (page 65). The surgeon meets with it chiefly as a final complication of tuberculous disease of bones or joints. The prognosis is always desperately bad. Possibly it may eventually be rendered less unfavourable by trephining the skull, washing out the sub-arachnoid space with hot boracic lotion, and draining it, and, may be, the lateral ventricles as well. But this heroic treatment has not yet availed much. A simpler—and I fear that I must say an equally ineffec- tive—method of treatment of tuberculous meningitis is that known as lumbar puncture of the sheath of the cauda equina with a fine cannula and trocliar. For this purpose the laminae of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae are separated as far as possible by flexing the child’s trunk, and the instrument is thrust boldly but discreetly into the dis- tended sub-arachnoid space, and a certain amount of the cerebro-spinal fluid is with- drawn. Most of those who first used this method have admitted that it is now useful only to estimate the amount of tension in the sheath and the nature of the fluid producing it. Meningocele is the protrusion of some part of the mem- branes of the brain through a gap in the skull, the result of imperfect development. It may possibly be caused by hydro- cephalus during intra-uterine life. The tumour is found at the occiput, the root of the nose (Fig. 32), the inner angle of the orbit, or the parietal region—that is, over a suture or at the meeting of sutures. If the deficiency existed at the spheno-ethmoidal region, there might be a prolapse into the pharynx or nasal fossa. As the result of the dragging of the Fig. 32.—Large Anterior Meningocele.