■ EMPYEMA. ] 54 which admits of the subsequent removal and re-introduction of the tube without alarming or hurting the child. The thorough drainage prevents retention and decomposition, and the free entrance of air into the pleural cavity is advantageous, in that it affords support to the lung tissue, and shields it from consecutive engorgement. Having made the opening, the surgeon introduces his finger, exploring as far as he can reach, breaking down ad- hesions, and perhaps scraping away masses or shreds of coagulated lymph. If an ordinary rubber drainage-tube is used, it should invariably be fixed to a piece of string tied round the chest. Nothing is easier than for an untethered tube to slip into the chest, and nothing is more difficult than in certain cases to extract it. The surgeon is not always infoiuned of the slipping in of the tube, however, and it may be left for a “pathologist” to make the tardy discovery.- A useful “ anchor-drain ” may be made by taking a couple of inches of a stiff indiarubber tube, of about the circumference of a cedar pencil, splitting the last quarter of an inch into four equal segments, and passing the split end through a hole in a piece of mackintosh sheeting about an inch and a half square; the four segments are then stitched flat upon the mackintosh. The tube thus arranged cannot drop into the pleura, its outer end remains wide open, and the absorbent pad placed over it keeps it from slipping out. As the discharge diminishes, the tube is made more slender and shorter, and even before the discharge has absolutely ceased it may be left off. If, after the surgeon has finally removed the tube, the temperature ascend, and there should be other evidence that pus is locked up, he must break through the track and re-introduce the tube. Harm is just as likely to arise from a tube being left in too long as from its being taken out too soon: the latter fault is easily corrected. Indeed, it is not unlikely that as the surgeon learns to distinguish the various forms of empyema by im- mediate microscopic examination of the pus, or by other bacteriological methods, he will find a class of cases which may advantageously be dealt with by immediate closure of the wound. But in the present state of our knowledge