263 SPINAL ABSCESS; OPERATION. against the side of the spinal column, a second accumulation often takes place in some distant region, as near the sternum, or in the loin or groin. Years ago it used to be the custom to open the superficial abscess only, and to allow the other to leak through it. The result was that pyogenic organisms entered the tuberculous area, and set up a severe and often fatal suppuration; everything went on quietly whilst only the bacilli tuberculosis were there, hut septicity followed the ingress of the others. To-day we understand all this, and the surgeon never opens the superficial abscess without being prepared to follow the track to the very end, scraping away the tuber- culous granulation-tissue (pyogenic membrane) with which it is Availed in, and taking the keenest precautions against the admittance of micrococci. And he makes this security the more perfect by closing the Avound as soon as he has dealt Avith the granuloma, and by doing Avithout drainage and its attendant risks. By clearing away the lining of granulation-tissue the surgeon removes the chief source of I . “secretion” into the abscess-cavity, and so renders the im- mediate closure of the cavity not only possible but probable. Operation.—The part having been rendered aseptic, an incision is made in the lorn, close on the outer side of the erector spinse; a transverse process is then felt for, and working Avith the director and dissecting forceps tOAvards the spinal column, the abscess is reached. Care must be taken in no Avay to injure the neighbouring layer of peri- toneum. Thorough irrigation Avith hot iodine-Avater, de- colorised Avith carbolic lotion, is then used, the granulation- tissue lining the cavity being scraped and washed out. The cavity should then be efficiently scrubbed out by large pieces of sponge securely held in long forceps. When the surgeon is satisfied that the cavity is thoroughly cleared of debris and of tuberculous material, he closes the Avound with deep sutures and dresses the part Avith bulky, sterile pads applied under firm and even pressure. He should use no drainage-tube. If the Avound break doAvn some Aveeks later, he may repeat the operation. This is far better than in- viting suppuration and septicity by the routine use of a drainage-tube. Of course, every abscess cavity does not thus become promptly and permanently obliterated, but a