183 TENOTOMY. The operation of subcutaneous tenotomy of the sterno- mastoid is not without risk. One danger is from the blade transfixing some large tributary of the subclavian vein at the root of the neck, though such veins may generally be avoided by keeping the knife close under the tendon. If, notwith- standing this precaution (in the subcutaneous method), much blood well up through the skin-wound, the operation should be desisted from, and a pad of lint firmly pressed over the wound, with many turns of a soft roller passed round by the armpits. After an interval of a week or so the operation may be completed, this time through a different skin-wound, or, far better, the open method may be adopted. Another danger is that of air passing into the venous circulation through a wounded vein; if air be carried into the right side of the heart, and churned up with the blood, alarming syncope 'may occur. The veins are close to the skin on the one side, and to the large subclavian trunk on the other, and the acci- dental wound is stretched widely open by the strained position necessary for section of the muscle. The accident once hap- pened in my own practice; fortunately the collapse did not end fatally, as firm pressure arrested further entrance of air and escape of blood. But having had considerable experience of both the subcutaneous and the open method of dividing the muscle, I strongly advocate the latter. It is a straight- forward procedure, and, as it enables the surgeon to see exactly what he is doing, it must needs be the safer operation. After-treatment. — When the skin-wound has soundly healed, gentle massage must be begun, and fibrous bands, which now assert themselves, must be worked at with the thumb until they yield; they will not require division. The child should be made to sit on a footstool, whilst the suro-eon o fixes the shoulders between his knees, and gently, but firmly, works at the neck. This he should do regularly every day, and the nurse should be taught to practise the same manipu- lations. At frequent intervals during the day the child should be made to walk with a weight hanging down in the hand of the affected side, whilst at the same time the head is inclined towards the opposite side. At night he should lie with the affected side of the head resting upon a firm pillow of a proper