TRACHEOTOMY. 48 trachea be made with a blunt scalpel, and without a little plunge, the mucous lining may escape transfixion, the tube passing down between it and the tracheal wall. If air do not pass through the tube, either naturally or on compressing the chest, the chances are that the tube has not been passed into the trachea. If air cannot be made to pass, the tube must be quickly taken out, the dilator introduced, and the trachea exposed and explored as' already insisted upon. The tube may be blocked with mucus, or its aperture obstructed by false membrane. Search should then be made for a mem- branous cast of the trachea. For thorough exploration, the tracheal wound should be enlarged slightly upwards, and a pair of forceps introduced. The occasion is critical, and fortunately is rarely encountered. It is far more likely that the tube has been passed down amongst the ribbon muscles at the front of the trachea than that it is blocked by a membranous cast of the trachea. I knew of a case in which, from the windpipe haying been twisted from its position, the tube was found post mortem to have been introduced into the trachea through the oesophagus; and of another in which the tube had been dashed right through the trachea and into the oesophagus. Pugin Thornton has seen post mortem three cuts on the vertebral column, which had been made by a house-surgeon in fruitless attempts to open the trachea. Probably the un- happy operator first lost his landmarks, and then his head. He should have paused in the middle of the operation, sponged out the wound, secured bleeding vessels, and calmly felt with the tip of his left index finger for the trachea. There must be no hurry about a tracheotomy. To attempt to incise the windpipe before it is bared beneath the finger and secured by the hook is highly reckless. Nothing is gained by dash in the operation; steadiness is everything. The surgeon who has operated on a fat-necked infant will have more sympathy with him who scored those vertebrae than he who has had no experience in the operation. Various ingenious instruments have been designed with the idea of simplifying tracheotomy. By the thrust of a double-bladed instrument the trachea was straightway to be opened ! But the blade is apt to compress, or to slip from