338 HYDROCELE. pressure may fail to return it.- But even in this case the mother will probably say that before the boy gets out of bed in the morning there is no fulness whatever. Congenital hydrocele and hernia (page 348) often co-exist, and in the case of but a slight scrotal fulness in a little child, the test of translucency may be imprac- ticable. Moreover, in a child, inflated boAvel is translucent; this must not be forgotten. In employing the light-test, the room should be darkened, the scrotum screened by the hand, a lighted vesta held on the other side of the scrotum, and inspection made through the tube of an old-fashioned stethoscope, or by a sheet of paper rolled up so as to leave a small lumen. The complete obliteration of the peri- toneal process of a congenital hydrocele is desired, lest during vomiting or straining a knuckle of intestine also descend. In some cases the aperture may be so slender as almost to induce the surgeon to regard the occlusion as perfect. To inject such a hydrocele, with a view of producing a radical cure, might be to set up fatal peritonitis. If the hydrocele be so large as to interfere with the truss, the fluid may be drawn off by a fine clean cannula. Lotions of sal ammoniac or of spirits of wine are, in my experience, of no therapeutic value. If the child cannot bear the pressure of the truss, it may be advisable to perform a radical operation for obliteration of the funicular process, as described on page 350. In funicular hydrocele the tube of peritoneum has been shut off from the tunica vaginalis whilst it communi- cates with the peritoneal cavity. The testicle is below the hydrocele, and the tunica vaginalis is empty. In infantile hydrocele the fluid collects in the tunica vaginalis and in the funicular process, but is shut off from the peritoneal cavity. The tumour is pear-shaped, with the stalk extending up to, or even within, the external abdominal ring. The swelling is translucent and unyielding, no fluid passing up under pressure. Such a hydrocele should not be injected ; the surgeon cannot be absolutely certain that the occlusion is perfect, and in any case the peritoneum is Fig. 77.—Congenital Hydrocele. T, Testis.