155 OPERATION. it is safer to advise the use of the drainage-tube in all cases, hut for the shortest possible time. The sooner that the tube is out the better. The layers of the pleura, bathed with pus, behave like the surface of an ordinary ulcer, covering themselves with granulation tissue which may eventually be converted into fibrous tissue. Coming into mutual contact, the two layers may adhere. A thickened and rigid pleura helps to prevent expansion of the lung in those cases in which the opening of the abscess has been delayed. The dressings should consist of bulky pads of sublimate wood-wool in gauze bags, kept in position by a binder. When a case is “ hanging fire ” or draining badly, or septic intoxication threatens, it may be advisable to enlarge the opening, excising a second piece of rib, and introducing the finger with a view of breaking down adhesions and searching for localised abscesses, and of clearing out masses of ill-organised lymph. After this, flushings with hot sanitas water may effect a clearance of the cavity. Irrigation of the cavity should not be resorted to as a routine practice, but may be advantageously adopted when the discharge, though sweet, is extremely profuse, or when, though, perhaps, moderate in quantity, it has become putrid. For this purpose, neither corrosive sublimate nor carbolic acid in solution is safe, on account of its toxic effects when absorbed. Warm iodine-water decolourised by a little carbolic acid lotion, or sanitas solution answers well. The fluid may be injected by a soft catheter fixed to the india- rubber tube of an irrigator. Having determined the presence of pus in the thorax, the surgeon must make it his business thoroughly to evacuate the abscess. In the case of a child of about three years on whom I was operating for a supposed empyema (pus having been found by the exploring syringe), we discovered no fluid in the pleural cavity after opening it at the spot where we had resected a piece of rib. Deep m the substance of the lung, however, we found and drained an extensive abscess, leaving in a flanged tube. No attempt was made to shut out the pleural cavity. The child made a rapid and complete recovery.