160 BURNS AND SCALDS. this cicatrix is usually more extensive than that left after any other injury, the contraction being proportionately great. The contraction of a scar at the front of the neck drags the inferior maxilla down to the chest, and prevents its develop- ment ; the lip is effaced, the teeth come through irregularly, and the saliva dribbles. Attempts to improve the disfigure- ment are likely to be disappointing, as the adjacent skin is unsound and intolerant of interference. If the burn be at the back of the knee, the leg must be kept extended by a stirrup and weight, provided that the skin of the leg be sound enough for the attachment of strapping. For a raw surface down the front of the neck, cicatrisation may be quickened and deformity checked by the collar shown in Fig. 63. If the burn be limited to the front of the knee, the lesr should be kept flexed, so that when the scar is contracted to the utmost full flexion may still be permitted. If the burn be in the groin, the child may be placed upon a Thomas’s hip splint. If at the front of the elbow, the limb should be kept extended; whilst if on the salient angle, the fore-arm had better be flexed. Like principles guide the surgeon in dealing with a burn about the shoulder, arm-pit, wrist, or finger. The opposed and granulating surfaces of fingers or toes should be separated by strips of lint, smeared with vaseline and eucalyptus oil. If the nose be burnt, a short piece of drainage-tube should be fixed in the nares during the cicatrisation. When an arm is bound to the side by cicatricial bands, or an elbow or other joint is permanently flexed, a plastic operation may afford some improvement, but subsequent contraction of the new scar-tissue is certain to follow. The tissues in the neighbourhood of a cicatrix are rarely available for plastic operations, whilst flaps transplanted from distant parts often fail to take root in the scar-tissue prepared for their reception. The result of interference with contracted cicatrices is generally disappointing. Fingei's or toes which are rigidly curled round may need removal; and a hand, foot, arm, or leg which is greatly deformed, seriously in the way/ or covered by an extensive and intractable ulceration, may demand amputation.-. Constant exercises of the limb, with gentle frictions and shampooings of the tender tissue,