BOW-LEG. 83 inside splint; for the result of this would be merely to throw a useless strain upon the internal lateral ligament. Should this be done, and the internal lateral ligament yield under the continued force, the production of genu valgum would be employed to correct the outward bowing, and the improve- ment obtained in the limb would be apparent, not real. In any attempt at forcible straightening of the limb, the integ- rity of this ligament must be respected. Though forcible straightening may be of value in the treatment of these limbs in early childhood, it is frequently superfluous, for with care- ful supervision and adequate rest the young child outgrows the deformity. The heavy mechanical supports supplied by the makers of apparatus are of little or no service, whilst to allow a child with soft bones to Avalk about in “ irons ” is a violation of surgical principles. What is required is absolute rest. But Avhen the bones are more solidly developed, as in approaching puberty, osteotomy of the femur and of tibia may possibly be demanded. I should think that osteoclasia might prove especially useful in these cases, as there Avould be no risk of damaging the epiphyses, the fracture being effected in the middle of the shaft. BoAV-leg is a simple curvature of the tibia and fibula; there is no bending of the femur, and the knees may be brought close together. When boAv-leg is associated with curved femur, the knees are Avidely separated, and the condi- tion is called genu extrorsum. BoAv-leg may often be observed before ever the child’s feet have been put to the ground; in this case the bend taken is but an exaggeration of the natural curve of the tibia. Frequently the deformity is the direct result of that peculiar habit Avhich the rickety child possesses of folding its legs across each other, and sitting upon them tailor-Avise. The curvature of syphilitic ostitis (page 94) must not be taken for that of rickets. In rickets the ends of the bones are enlarged; in syphilis the thickening is in the diaphysis, the convexity of the bend is always forwards, and there is sure to be some other evidence of syphilis forthcoming. Treatment should be begun as soon as the existence of the deformity is recognised. If the child be badly nourished, or rickety, he should be tended Avith special care. In order