INFLAMMATION OF THE APPENDIX. 382 abscess has made its Avay into the general peritoneal cavity. Then an incision about two inches long is made downwards and inwards over the most prominent part of the swelling, which will likely be some one or two inches to the inner side of the anterior superior iliac spine. The muscles should be traversed by separating their fibres, rather than by cutting them across. The scalpel must not be introduced with a thrust, lest by chance a piece of distended bowel be punctured, but it should work through the cedematous tissues, layer by layer, the forceps and director being used as little as may be; there must be no “ exploring ” with the director. As the unrecognisable transversalis fascia is reached, pus may come welling up. The deep part of the wound must be sufficiently free, but there must be no poking about with the finger, nor must a search be instituted for the inflamed appendix, nor must irrigation be used, lest the delicate adhesions which may still shut out the abscess be broken down. If the surgeon do not stumble across the gangrenous or inflamed appendix, he must exercise self-denial, and not search for it. It is easy to spoil these cases by officiousness. No attempt should be made to squeeze out the pus; it must be allowed quietly to well up into the absorbent dressings. If a drain is thought to be necessary, it should be a strip or two of gauze, a spill of indiarubber tissue, or a very soft tube. If the sAvollen appendix be seen in the depths of the abscess cavity, it. may be amputated at its root, the stump being cleansed and sutured secundum artem. It is some- times advised that the serous covering of the stump be raised, turned in and sutured; the theory is excellent, but in actual practice it can rarely be carried out, as the stump is stiff and sodden. Directly after the evacuation of the abscess the child begins to improve, even though the appendix was neither dealt with nor seen, and it is quite likely that no further trouble will occur in the csecal region. It often happens, however, that a sinus persists for some weeks, or even months, at a spot where the wound failed to heal; but so long as the child s general health is not affected by it, no scraping or exploration should be advised. It will close up in time.