INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 10 a child s skin or ulcerated surface is an active area of absorption. Poultices are inconvenient; the warmth and moisture which they afford are better supplied by a fold of boracic lint wrung out in warm water, and applied under india- rubber tissue to prevent evaporation. The waterproof may be secured by a bandage. But the greatest care must be taken lest the application be needlessly warm ; a child’s skin is extremely delicate, and a hot-water dressing may cause most serious sloughing and ulceration (page 158). Similarly, the application of blisters may give rise to gangrene or to profuse suppuration, conditions which may also follow the subcutaneous injection of ether. . Vaccination should be performed in the second or third month. The skin just above the insertion of the left deltoid is cleansed, and scratches are gently made into it in cross lines by the point of a clean needle or lancet. This should be done in four places, distant from each other about half an inch. Fresh lymph is applied over the places, and is alloAved to dry before the arm is again put through the sleeve. Thus done, the operation is associated with neither pain nor bleeding. Subsequently the dermatitis may be relieved by smearing the part with cold cream, and by dressing it with a layer of cotton-wool. A “ shield ” should not be worn, as it is apt to become soiled and septic, and, by shifting its place, to bruise the sores. If the discharge becomes offensive or thick, and if hard scabs form, wet boracic lint, or lint soaked in sanitas lotion, may be applied; unhealthy ulcers may be dressed with vaseline and sanitas, or Avith mild carbolic lotion. If more care were paid to improving the general health of an infant before subjecting him to vaccination, there Avould be still less complication, and Avild and ignorant objections to it Avould decrease. Vaccination should never be performed from an infant about Avhom there can be the least suspicion of venereal taint; nor should lymph be taken from a puny or unhealthy child. The lymph should not be stained Avith blood, and the family history of the child from AA'hom the lymph is obtained should be knoAvn to be good. The more extensive use of fresh calf lymph, Avhich in England, at least, is ahvays obtainable, is very desirable.