RICKETS. 68 One of the earliest symptoms is restlessness at night, and a habit of kicking off the bed-clothes. Many rickety children perspire freely during sleep, so that the pillow is wet. If a child kick off all the clothes, he becomes chilled, and then perspiration does not occur. The frequency of the occurrence of bronchitis and acute pneumonia in rickety children is partly accounted for by their lying naked and chilled in bed. It is not clear why rickety children kick off the clothes. It has been suggested that it is because the body is tender and cannot tolerate pressure ; but the rickety child is not so tender as this would imply—unless, indeed, subperiosteal or other haemorrhages have occurred. In the general run of cases there is no definite tenderness; the child is anaemic, feeble, helpless, and fretful, but not in pain. He is backward, and tumbles about, or crawls, when he ought to be able to walk securely. The muscles are flabby, and the normal curves of the bones are exaggerated. The head is expanded, the forehead large, and the face puny. The borders of the parietal bones are swollen, so that the sagittal suture is thickened ; but ossification is so delayed that the anterior fontanelle, which should be closed before the end of the second year, remains open long afterwards. The thickening of the parietal bones may produce a definite, though shallow furrow along the sagittal suture. The occiput may be flattened if it be constantly resting upon the pillow, or on the nurse’s arm. And either from the pressure of the brain from within, from absorption, or from retarded ossifica- tion, a thinning of certain parts of the parietal and occipital bones is produced (cranio-tabes). (See also page 95.) The soft spots may be detected by pinching the postero-lateral parts of the head between the finger and thumb; it is as if the skull had been patched with a piece of parchment. The con- dition is found chiefly during cradle-life, and is thus an early manifestation of rickets. When rickets appears in early infancy, the eruption of the incisor teeth may be delayed, and if the disease appear after the cutting of the incisors the eruption of the molars may be retarded. A case has been recorded in which a rickety child of nearly two years had cut but four teeth. The enamel is imperfect and the teeth readily decay. The alveolar process