21 DIPHTHERIA. Though the treatment of diphtheria will be further alluded to in the next chapter, it may be here remarked that any medicine administered must be with the view of keeping up the strength. Iron and quinine are the most useful drugs; but if the child can swallow only with the greatest difficulty, it is inadvisable that he should be nauseated with medicines. So long, only, as he will take the dose with a little persuasion should it be given. Five to ten drops of tincture of iron given every hour or so in a teaspoonful of sweetened water is, I believe, the best medicine. Solid beef-jelly, port wine, or brandy with egg and milk, or beef-tea, may be given freely, but not so as to nauseate the child. Fresh orange juice and iced water, with a little brandy and sugar, make a good drink. The throat should he regularly swabbed with glycerine and perchloride of mercury (1 in 1,000) or of iron. But this local treatment, valuable as it is, should not be persisted in if it greatly distresses or frightens the child. It is well nigh impossible thoroughly to disinfect the patches, and to worry a child until he is exhausted by resisting the local treatment is more likely to do harm than good. In the hours when diphtheria is a local disease, the appli- cation of a solution of carbolic or of sulphurous acid, per- chloride of iron, or other germicide to the patches is of the greatest value, and should in every case be most thoroughly and persistently carried out; but when the whole constitution is affected, local treatment can be only supplemental. The use of corrosive sublimate is not free from objection. Though children bear mercury well, absorption of the sublimate salt may cause griping, sickness, or diarrhoea; still there is no more trustworthy solution (1 in 1,000) than this. It may be conveniently used every three hours, in the form of a spray, the tongue being depressed by a spatula. Another efficient Avay of dealing with the patches is by bloAving sulphur upon them by means of an insufflator. In my opinion, no attempt should be made to clear the throat by emetics. Such treat- ment is sadly exhausting, and the child needs all his strength. Hot compresses may be applied to the front of the neck, but no other external application is likely to afford relief. The compresses may be sponges from Avhich almost boiling