9 LEECHES; ANTISEPTICS. commencing contraction of pupil gives evidence of the effect being produced. The dose is a minim of the tr. opii for each year up to five or six, the child being carefully watched. If a child refuse to take medicine, it may be administered by a small syringe, fitted Avith a piece of indiarubber tubing long enough to reach beyond the back of the tongue. Leeches should not be entrusted to the care of an un- skilled nurse. It may piwe a difficult matter to stop the bleeding from the bite, acupressure or suture being at times required. I do not think, however, that children bear the loss of blood badly; it is extraordinary to see Avith Avhat speed they recover strength after an exhausting operation, as for cleft palate. Antiseptics.—Caution must be given in connection Avith the employment of corrosive sublimate solutions and of carbolic acid lotions. A word must be said also about iodoform, Avhich is now being used so much. As a rule, it does no harm, though I doubt if ever it does much good. Personally, I regard it someAvhat as a superfluity, even in the treatment of tuberculous disease, and I find that I get on perfectly well without it. Indeed, I never employ it. Some- times it has a directly poisonous effect. The child becomes restless and excited, and perhaps vomits; the temperature goes up, and the pulse quickens. In some cases an erythema is set up by it, the urine being highly coloured. The symptoms are often a good deal like those of pyaemia, but on discontinuing the use of the drug they promptly disappear. But unless the drug be quickly discontinued the child may become dull or excited, the excitement passing into delirium or mania. Sometimes the symptoms of iodoform-poisoning resemble those of tuberculous meningitis (page 65). Children are iioav and then extremely intolerant of the usual antiseptic measures. Not long since I saAV in consultation a delicate child Avho had been seriously affected by the application of, as I Avas informed, the ordinary Avet dressings of carbolic lotion previous to the performance of an operation ; extensiAre gangrene folloAved the application. Carbolic dressings, previous to operation, must be applied with discretion. Lotions of carbolic acid and of mercuric salts oavo their antiseptic value to the fact of their being energetic chemical agents. But