194 GANG BUM ORIS. most important matters relating to hygiene. It is specially apt to affect the child whose physical condition has been exhausted by measles or some such ailment, and is due to a local cultivation in the tissues of septic micro-organisms which leads to thrombosis of the vessels. The disease may begin as an innocent-looking swelling of the cheek or lip, the mucous membrane being the seat of a superficial ulceration; occasionally it follows ulcerative stomatitis (page 192); the mucous membrane may be grey and sloughing, and covered with a foul exudation. The swollen tissues are oedematous and hard, and the skin is at first reddish. The breath is foetid, and there is profuse ptyalism. When the cheek is brawny and thick, the interior of the mouth cannot be inspected without causing distress. The ulceration extends rapidly; the gums become gangrenous, and the adjacent teeth loosen. Extensive necrosis may result, and the mouth and pharynx may be laid open through the cheek. The phagedtenic ulceration spreads beneath the skin, so that between the floor of the ulcer and the skin there is a groove in which the destructive process is ad- vancing most rapidly. The margin of the overhanging skin may be blue and gangrenous. In a recent case the noma had begun (after measles) in the parotid region, and had invaded the pinna of the ear and the cheek. In the floor of the ulcer the ramifications of the facial nerve were exposed. The first indication for alarm may be a dusky or black spot, due to septic coagulation of blood in the distended capillaries, and to the escape of coloured corpuscles. Though the child may be unable to eat, or to drink even fluids, it is not a rare thing to find patients in whom gangrene has committed the most frightful ravages, who neither suffer pain nor have suffered it, who maintain a good appetite, and continue cheerful ” (Dr. Bristowe). The prognosis is highly unfavourable. The child may succumb to rapid exhaustion, or, lingering awhile, may sink from diarrhoea, septic pneumonia, or general blood-poisoning. And though he may struggle through the attack, he cannot escape disfigurement. The greater the sloughing, the greater,