DISEASE OF TEE KNEE JOINT. 437 to meet or overlap, and then comparing with the other side. (This style of measurement serves well also for the upper extremity.) The skin becomes hot and red, and the child dreads the limb being touched. If rest on a splint, leeches arid fomen- tations do not promote resolution, suppuration will come on. The local signs will then be intensified, the temperature will mount up, and there will probably be shivers or convulsions. If the introduction of a hollow needle reveal the presence of pus, the joint should then be opened on each side, and washed out with a hot mercuric lotion (1 in 5,000). When irrigations of carbolic lotion are used, they must be no stronger than 1 in 40, lest the child suffer from the effects of carbolic acid poisoning, the signs of which are drowsiness, depression, sickness, collapse, and a low tempera- ture, the urine being olive-green or dusky. Such symptoms may even follow absorption of carbolic lotion, applied on cloths to the unbroken skin previous to an operation. Having thus relieved tension and cleaned out the sup- purating joint, the surgeon should make an attempt at securing immediate and permanent closure of the wound. If he fail, no harm is done; re-accumulation taking place, the wound can be opened once more, and the joint irrigated as before. This time a drainage-tube should be left in. I am satisfied that drainage-tubes are considerably abused. By employing irrigation, scraping when applicable, and by using firm and even compression, many a joint-abscess may- be straightway cured. Abscess in a joint does not differ from abscess elsewhere, at least as regards its treatment. But too often there is delay in opening the suppurating joint, the prognosis being gravely affected in consequence. Under the influence of prompt and energetic treatment I have often seen acute articular abscess clear up absolutely, leaving the joint as freely movable as before. I have wit- nessed this even when the cause of the acute suppuration was pyaemia, which had begun as osteomyelitis in the humerus. Acute suppurative arthritis is far less serious in children than in adults (see page 371). If an abscess be extra-articular, the swelling and fulness are not evenly distributed around the patella, and the patella itself