250 SPINAL GABIES. result of irritation of the trunks of high cervical nerves, The irritation is generally clue to inflammatory thickening of the membranes—pachymeningitis. If the lowest cervical vertebras be inflamed, the trunks of nerves which enter into the brachial plexus are liable to irritation, pain being referred to the shoulders, elbows, or even to the fingers. For pains in each shoulder, arm, or hand, the cervical spine should straightway be examined. And even if obscure pains be not symmetrical, but confined to one side, attention should be directed to the spine. The theory of growing pains ” is as vague as it is unpractical When the dorsal vertebrae are diseased, there may be neuralgia in the intercostal nerves or their peripheral branches. A child with high dorsal caries, now under my care, fretfully complains of “headache in the chest.” When the lower half of the dorsal column is affected, pain may be referred to the epigastric or umbilical region, or even to the skin over the ilium, where the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is distributed. Sometimes one hears of a “ tight ” feeling around the trunk, and of “ cramps ” in the trunk and limbs. With lumbar disease the pains may be referred to the areas of distribution of the ilio-hypogastric, ilio-inguinal, genito-crural or external cutaneous nerves. If, on being asked where the pain is, the child place his fingers in each groin, or over each hip or each iliac crest, it is almost certain that he has high lumbar caries. Pains in the front of the thighs—that is, in the distribution of the anterior crural or obturator nerves—should direct attention to the region of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. If it happen that the nerve-fibres destined for the long saphenous branch are irritated as they leave the column, pains Avill be referred to the knee, the inner side of leg or foot, or to the ball of the great toe. Symmetrical pains are the result of central mischief, and generally of spinal disease. (Ivnee-pams may be caused by disease of the sacro-iliac joint, hip joint, knee joint, or by pelvic abscess.) Radiating pains are too often ascribed to “ rheumatism.” In the examination for suspected caries, the child should