51 CLEARING OF THE TUBE. good appetite or power of digestion, and vomiting is a con- tingency to be dreaded. Wine should be given with great freedom; there is no drug or aliment ot equal value to it. Instead of some of the food mentioned above, certain beef peptonoids may be employed which contain the nutritive elements of the meat, with the solid constituents of milk and gluten. The food is prepared as one mixes mustard, in a cup, and is then diluted with hot water. If used as an enema, it should be given in a glass syringe, as it chokes the india- rubber apparatus. Rectal feeding may prove of great advantage. Warmed pancreatic food may be given in milk; it is readily absorbed by even a weak stomach. The nurse should see, before the household retires to rest, that she has enough coal, methylated spirits for the spray, antiseptics, stimulants, ice, and food to last through the night; also feathers and torn pieces of sponge for keeping the tube clear. It is unsafe to leave the child for a moment unat- tended, so she cannot desert her charge during the night to make good deficiencies. In private practice two skilled nurses are required, one for night and one for day; they should both be in the room when the tube has to be taken out, or the child has to be disturbed for any other important matter. There is an art in clearing the tube. When the child coughs, the scrap of sponge should not be held over the hole, but the nurse should wait until the cough has brought the mucus up to the mouth of the tube, then she should snare it, and prevent its being drawn down again. Great re- sponsibility rests with the nurses. They should be thoroughly instructed in the art of clearing and cleaning the tube, and should have confidence for the removal of the inner tube for washing. Cellulitis.—The surface of the wound occasionally takes on a covering of diphtheritic membrane; the skin and cel- lular tissue may become swollen, so that the tape around the neck requires easing, and infianimation may end in suppura- tion or gangrene. It is likely, however, that the child will sink ere such change can ensue. The oedematous wound may be painted with glycerine and carbolic acid, and the neck coated over with flexible collodion, or with white lead paint. General emphysema sometimes follows tracheotomy; and