329 inflammation of the appendix. appendix is easily traversed by the bacteria coli, which then set up cellulitis and peritonitis in the neighbourhood. Symptoms.—There are fulness, hardness, and persistent pain and tenderness in the right iliac fossa. Though the bowels are usually confined, there is sometimes a slight but persistent diarrhoea. The constitutional disturbance is severe, and may be quite sudden in its onset, the temperature run- ning up to 102°, or even higher, and keeping high. A sudden fall in the temperature, together with a quickening of the pulse, suggests perforation or gangrene. The abdomen is more or less distended, for localised or general peritonitis quickly supervenes, and the abdominal muscles are rigid. Although there is pain in the whole of the iliac fossa, the “ point ” of chief tenderness is about an inch to the inner side of the anterior iliac spine in the direction towards the navel. The child is flushed and anxious; he lies Avith his knees drawn up, and greatly objects to the right thigh being extended. Indeed, if this flexed and rigid position of the thigh be associated with pains near the knee (as may happen on account of inflammatory pressure upon the anterior crural nerve), the case may be mistaken for acute hip-joint disease; the movements of the hip-joint are quite free, lioAvever, Avhilst a definite fulness is discoverable in the iliac fossa. By careful exploration by the finger in the rectum fulness or hardness may sometimes be found in the ccecal region. Again, the pains in the limb and the stiffening of the muscles of the abdomen and back may suggest spinal caries and iliac abscess; but this diagnosis is negatived by the sudden history, and by the acuteness of the local pain and tenderness. Moreover, under chloroform, the back is found to bend easily in any direction. The differentiation from intussusception (page 322) is manifested by the presence of localised swelling and acute pain, though the escape of mucus from the anus, Avhich happens in some of the cases, may at first lead to error in diagnosis. The skin over the iliac fossa is dusky and oedematous; and if gas has escaped into it from the ulcerated boAvel, em- physematous crackling may be detected. The inflammation quickly extends from the appendix to the tissues around the ccecum (irepi, around ; blind), and the peritoneal