126 TUMOURS. removal, or attempted removal, would be serious, while the extent of the wound would entail an exhausting; drain, Of a tumour in the middle line of the back the surgeon must always be suspicious, for though it may be capable of some movement over the subjacent bone, it is very likely to be connected with the spinal canal. If it is associated with “ weakness ” of the bowel or bladder, there can be little doubt as to the importance of its connections. Though such a tumour may look like a simple fibro-fatty growth, it is apt to be the remains of a spinal meningocele which has happily undergone spontaneous or artificial cure. Its base may be associated with some part of the cauda equina. Treatment.—If operation be determined upon, a careful dissection should be made down to the base of the tumour, with all needful precautions. If it be found unconnected with the spinal canal, it should be removed. If connected by a slender pedicle, this must be ligated and the tumour then detached. But if the communication with the canal prove considerable, the wound should be closed and the tumour eventually dealt with as a spina bifida. Other varieties of tumour in the neighbourhood of the sacrum and coccyx are dermoid cysts. These may contain hair, sebaceous matter, or rudimentary teeth. Tumours consisting of foetal remains of bone or cartilage, or .the vestiges of limbs, are occasionally met with. Dissociated blastoderm, dermoid cysts, arise from ger- minal cutaneous cells of the epiblast which have waudered to an abnormal site, and there have, at a later stage, developed after their kind. They are often found over the anterior fontanelle, and in the median line of the forehead and nose, being there, as Lannelongue has shown, portions of the dorsal groove which have been carried forward with the growth of the front of the head and of the face. Dermoids may often be found embedded beneath skin or mucous membrane, either in the median ventral, or dorsal line of the union of the lateral halves of the body, or in some other line of fusion, especially about the neck or face. Fig. 20 shows that dermoids are apt to be embedded at the inner and outer angles of the orbit, the upper eyelid, in the naso-facial sulcus, the cheek, or slightly posterior to the angle of the