361 BIOKETY CURVATURE. needed. The laxative iron mixture, or that of cod-liver oil and iron, or the simple tincture of iron in water, may be prescribed. If continued supervision be given, even an un- sightly curvature may be expected to cease to increase, so that later, by an artful arrangement of corset and dress, the deformity is hardly to be detected even by the critical eye. Before pronouncing a child cured of or free from cur- vature, she should be kept standing for several minutes, until the muscles are weary of holding the spine erect. A curva- ture which can be detected only in this way is, of course, very slight. The rickety curvature is evenly distributed from the neck to the loins, the head falling helplessly on to the chest, or down towards the child’s knees. This condition has been dignified by the name kyphosis “ bowed forwards ”). The curvature is, at a glance, altogether different from that of caries, whilst the abnormal mobility of the spine gives evidence of the absence of inflammatory disease. If the child be put flat on the table, or laid prone across the surgeon’s knees, the knees being gradually drawn apart so as to stretch the child’s trunk, the spine comes as straight as ever. Weak and growing girls are particularly apt to develop this hoop curvature, especially if they be the subjects of nearsightedness, because they have constantly to lean for- wards to read, or even to see the food on the plate. Both shoulders are said to be “ growing out,” the explanation being that the shoulder-blades cannot lie flat upon the rounded back. Treatment.—If the subject be an infant, careful feeding and clothing, and the administration of cod-liver oil by the mouth or skin, and the maintenance of the horizontal position, are needed. No support of any kind is required. If the child be a few years old, he should take his meals as he lies on the floor; or if he be allowed to sit at table, he should be made to lean back in his chair. Lolling over plate, picture-book, or toy should not be allowed. For the growing girl, the treatment will be that prescribed upon page 358; and care must be taken that if the eyes be weak she be supplied with glasses which have been selected