DISEASE OF THE ELBOW JOINT. 456 integrity. The ulnar nerve should not he seen during the operation; it should be raised from its bed between the internal condyle and the olecranon, and kept out of the way by a retractor. Then, by forcibly bending the elbow, the end of the humerus is made to project; the articular end being cut off with a scalpel or with a tine saAv. The articular ends of ulna and radius are then removed, and the interior of the capsule, the sinuses leading to it, and the abscesses associated Avith it, are treated as under the heading “ arthrectomy ” (page 445). There is this great difference betAveen the operation on the knee and the elboAV:—in the former case as little tissue is removed as possible, because synostosis is aimed at; Avhereas, in the case of the elboAV, a false joint is desired. It is advisable to remove the head of the radius, lest, lying against the end of the humerus, it eventually become ossified to it, the usefulness of the limb being thereby diminished. The cavity should be Avashed and dried, the edges of the wound being closely approximated Avith sutures. The dressings being applied, the forearm and arm are enclosed in a soft bandage, Avitli firm compression round the elboAV. The cavity should not be stuffed, nor need provision be made for drainage. No splint should be applied, but the arm should be laid upon a pilloAV. The sooner it is moved the better, and the child may all the Avhile be going about Avith the arm in a sling and using the fingers. Excision of the elboAV, combined Avith arthrectomy, for chronic disease is, in my experience, a highly satisfactory operation. If after excision suppuration persist, though, perhaps in diminished amount, and if the swelling about the elboAV do not materially subside, and if, in brief, the local and general improvement be disappointing, still the arm must not be condemned to amputation; it is very rarely necessary to remove a limb for chronic disease of the elboAV ; albuminuria, haemoptysis, or some other indication of advanced tuber- culosis may, hoAvever, render amputation necessary. The Avound must be opened up under chloroform, and thoroughly scraped out again, and Avashed with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 10 to ^i)• And as soon as possible after this, the