MAXILLARY ABSCESS. 103 The child suffers intensely, and may neither eat nor sleep. If the disease be allowed to run its course, an abscess opens by the angle of the jaw, or on the cheek or chin. Later, a sequestrum may be discovered, especially when, as usually happens, the lower jaiv is implicated. Necrosis of the superior maxilla is rare, because its tissue is less dense than that of the lower jaw, and, therefore, better able to endure the effects of acute inflammation. Treatment.—The diseased tooth must be extracted. Yet it sometimes happens that a dental surgeon refuses to extract a condemned tooth because of the acuteness of the local disturbance. He injudiciously advises delay until the inflam- mation has quieted down. The tooth ought straightway to be extracted; otherwise necrosis may extend, and suffering be needlessly prolonged. Fomentations and poulticings are out of place, but an elevator working from the outer side of the tooth affords prompt relief. If abscess have formed beneath the gum, and no individual tooth appear to be the cause of it, it will be well to incise the boggy tissue, and to wait before extracting a tooth. Any attempt to open the abscess should not degenerate into mere scarification, but the lancet should be thrust boldly down into the suspicious area, the child being under chloroform. In the removal of sequestra, the less the wounding of the skin, and the less the disturbance of the young teeth, the better. Whether a sequestrum be removed through the mouth, or by Avay of a sinus which opens near the angle of the jaw, must be determined by the nature of the case. Both in the upper and lower jaw extensive necrosis may be caused by the local effects of the septic micro-organisms which flourish in the wake of exanthematous fevers. While the process of exfoliation is taking place, strength must be kept up by tonics. Sanitas wash and spray must be used to correct the fcetor of the breath, and sequestra must be removed as soon as possible. Cancrum oris is an acute inflammatory affection of the cheek and lips, or even of the jaws, which rapidly runs on to gangrene. It is not a common or a painful disease. It selects victims from wretched children, generally under six years of age, who have received but little attention in the N