OPERATIONS; ANAESTHETICS. 5 inevitable shock of the operation may be reduced to a minimum. Early morning is the best time for operating, as the child is thus less disturbed by being- kept without food. He should know nothing about what is going to take place; certainly he should not see any instruments or preparations for the operation, and the anaesthetic should be administered before he is taken out of his bed. In private practice I keep out of sio-ht until the child is insensible, and allow the anaesthetist to bear the charge of having “ hurt ” him; m the matter of subsequent dressings, I come as a sympathetic friend to heal the wound which “ the other man ” has inflicted. In private practice, when the operation is of any consider- able importance, it is advisable to secure the services of a trained nurse. I am fully conscious of the difficulty of getting the mother to realise the fact that maternal affection is no substitute for skilled supervision, but, beyond all question, such is the case. By preference I have operation cases in a surgical home. My experience is that children are generally in complete oblivion of their parents when they have been an hour or so amongst kind and cheerful strangers. When an operation is to be performed upon a child, the surgeon should insist on the parents not remaining in the room. Their presence is apt to be embarrassing, especially if anything go wrong either with the amesthetic or with the operation. It is advisable, too, that, unless the understanding between the surgeon and parents be thorough, the former should not commit himself to an absolute expression of opinion as to the nature of the fluid in a fluctuating tumour of a child until that same fluid has been removed. Serum may be found where pus has been thought to exist, while the exploration of a suspected abscess may reveal sanguineous effusion, or, worse still, malignant disease. Anaesthetics.—No painful operation or wearying examina- tion should be conducted without the aid of an anaesthetic: I entirely agree with Ashby and Wright that a child should never be allowed to suffer pain if it can be avoided. Acute pain is very badly borne, and quickly causes collapse. Chloroform is best adapted for the purpose, given on .a piece of lint. If it can be given whilst the child is sleeping, so