79 OGS TON’S AND MAGE WEN’S OPERATIONS. it leaves the knee straight, it renders it permanently weak, and would entail the patient wearing some apparatus for the rest of his life. Ogston’s operation.—By a narrow incision (Fig. 9), leading obliquely to the trochlear surface of the femur, a course is pre- pared for the blade of a key-hole saw, and the inner condyle is sliced off; the limb being then straightened, the loosened con- dyle is pushed up. This operation has now given place to Macewen’s, which has the great advantage of not implicating the joint. Macewen’s operation.—Ahalf-inch incision (Fig. 9) is made down to the femur, where a line, drawn transversely inwards at a finger’s breadth above the top of the external condyle, joins a vertical one Avhich is half an inch in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus. The osteotome is slipped doAvn to the bone by the side of the scalpel, Avhich is then AvithdraAvn, and the edge of the osteotome is turned at right angles to the length of the femur. From time to time, during the use of the mallet, an attempt may be made to straighten the femur by force, either by bending or break- ing through the bone-tissue AArhich has not been divided; the knee is supported on a moistened F Fig-of'Left sand pillow. The Avound is covered Avith a pad Femur, of sterilised gauze and a bandage, and the limbs og"t’on4%"ci- are secured in the straight position by lateral of0Macewen4! splints of gypsum, Avhich reach from ankle to hip. A second dressing is rarely needed. A convenient apparatus for use after these operations consists of tAvo long outside wooden splints, reaching from axilla to ankle, and firmly connected above by a hooped iron Avhich arches over the front of the chest, and beloAv by a short transverse bar of Avood which is fixed to the posterior edges of the splints near their lower ends. The apparatus is, in fact, a simple variety of fracture-box. A modification of Macewen’s operation.—In those cases of knock-knee in which the bloodless measures either offer no prospect of success or have absolutely failed, osteotomy is, of course, the only alternative. But in performing this I have noAv entirely discarded the osteotome and mallet, preferring to