447 EXCISION. to recapitulate them when dealing with the subject of chronic disease of the hip, ankle, shoulder, elbow, and wrist. (See Trans. Soc. Med. Chir., 1889.) Excision.—If the disease have been running a long, intractable course, and have made, after many weeks or months of careful supervision, no real improvement; if the bones do not appear too extensively diseased, or their shafts expanded; and if the patient be the subject neither of marked tuberculosis nor exhaustion; if the lungs be sound, and the urine contain no albumen, excision may be fairly undertaken. In many cases excision is resorted to after an unsatisfactory arthrectomy. It is better not to operate with the assistance of Esmarch’s band, as the bleeding is far more troublesome after the compression has been removed. An incision is made from the lateral swelling (tuberosity) of one femoral condyle, through the ligamentum patelke, and up again to the tuber- osity of the other condyle. The horns of this incision should reach well back, so as to be available for subsequent drain- age; the knife should pass right down to the bones. The patella is removed; it can be of no use on the occurrence of synostosis. The knee is then flexed; the lateral and the crucial ligaments are divided, and a slice is squarely cut from the end of the femur by a broad saw, directed straight down to the head of the tibia. This section must be made high enough to leave a wide surface, but not high enough to trench upon the junction cartilage. If there be partial ankylosis, force may be required in detaching the patella and flexing the joint, but when the joint is flexed the section of the femur can be effected, as described above, without risk of wounding the popliteal artery. After excising and straightening a knee which has been long flexed, the skin is found rucked and redundant at the front of the joint. In these circum- stances, I usually follow A. G. Miller’s plan of making two crescentic incisions, when beginning the operation, and taking away the included piece of skin along with the patella. One of these cuts crosses the middle of the patella, the other descending to the level of the head of the tibia. The layer of cartilage between the shaft and epiphysis of the femur should not be damaged; on the integrity of this layer the subsequent growth of the thigh bone depends. So