389 TREATMENT. be moulded to the elbow, the joint being arranged at a right angle, and being steadied as the mould hardens. But it matters not of what material the splint be composed so long as the surgeon be handy with it; common house-flannel soaked in creamy plaster of Paris, poroplastic splinting, guttapercha—anyone of them will do—but it must be applied with evenness and firm- ness. It should be long enough to reach well up the arm and down the forearm. Figures 93 and 94 show the material O notched ready for application, and the splint moulded on to the elbow. The arm had better be secured inside the dress for three weeks. When using plaster of Paris, the house-flannel splinting may be applied directly against the skin, without the inter- vention of padding or bandage. Thickening and stiffness of the joint subside in due course, and it is not ad- visable to attempt to expedite matters by forcible manipulation. Parents should (page 380) understand that the joint must be stiff for some time subsequently, and that in rare instances the joint remains permanently affected, and that fracture at that particular spot is always a serious injury. Should deformity with synostosis follow, excision might be deemed expedient; but such radical treatment should not be hastily resorted to. Separation of the epiphysis may be complicated with a vertical fracture into the elboiv joint, in which case it is found that on catching the condyles firmly between the fingers and thumb they are not in solid connection with each other or with the shaft (Fig. 95). The treatment does not differ from that advised in the previous case, and from the first it must be explained that deformity and stiffness may ensue, and that it is also possible that some arrest of development may possibly occur. Early resort to massage is useful. Fracture may extend obliquely into the joint through the epiphysis, without there being a detachment of the epiphysis. This is made out by the fact that one condyle is loosened, pbyseal Cartilage of Humerus, ex- tending into Elbow Joint.—“ T ” frac- ture.