272 TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. but no operative procedure—either by cautery, needles, or scalpel—should be attempted, for, though it may possibly succeed, it is far more likely to fail, in which case the trouble is immensely increased. The prognosis is highly un- favourable. Tuberculous peritonitis may come on insidiously or rapidly, either with or without a history of abdominal injury, and may occur in a child who, neither by heredity nor past history, was suspected of tuberculous taint. As a rule, it is a chronic affection, and its onset is marked by nothing more, perhaps, than occasional vomitings and complaints of obscure pains, which are probably ascribed to errors of diet. After a while the belly begins to swell, but it is not tender, and there may be no further complaints of aches. As the swelling increases the skin becomes stretched, shining, and marked over with distended veins. The distention of the abdomen is due partly to the presence of enlarged mesenteric glands, partly to accumulation of gas in the inactive bowel, and partly to the effusion of serous or sero-purulent fluid into the peritoneal sac. Some- times a small collection of the fluid causes a bulging at the navel, and at that spot abscess may evacuate itself. The child steadily grows thinner. In some cases the bowels are confined, and in others there is diarrhoea. The temperature is above normal, especially in the evening—but not always so. Through the thin abdominal walls ball-like masses of matted omentum, distended and floating intestine, or encysted abscesses may possibly be detected. But it often happens that nothing definite can be made out, and that only when the abdomen is opened in order to see what is the cause of an intestinal obstruction, or what is the nature of some obscure tumour, the existence of the tuberculous peritonitis is clearly recognised. Some- times a quiet abdominal ascites is the only sign of the tuberculosis. As Treves remarks, the constitutional symp- toms of peritonitis are in the main those of septicemia, and it is from blood-poisoning, and not from inflammatory disturbances, that the subject of peritonitis dies. Treatment.—The child is kept quiet in bed, with a cradle over its abdomen. The diet is carefully regulated and, if