SPINAL CARIES. 262 narrow fauces, and if tlie bulging be great, even fluids may regurgitate. The child runs the risk of suffocation, both from obstruction caused by the swelling, and from the abscess suddenly discharging its contents into the larynx. In a fair proportion of cases, especially in infants and young children, suppuration takes place behind the pharynx independently of vertebral disease. Thus, I have met with it as a sequel of tonsillitis, of influenza, of post-nasal or pharyngeal disease (probably tuberculous), and in miserable infants who seem to be victims of general malnutrition rather than of classified malady. In such cases downward pressure may be made upon the child’s head as he sits up in bed, without eliciting signs of distress. And, the abscess having- been evacuated, the head may be painlessly rotated, and the cervical region of the spine inclined laterally to the normal extent. But, even in these children, where perhaps, no bulging can be detected at the side of the neck, the abscess should be reached and drained from the side of the neck rather than through the mouth. The latter (and old-fashioned) method of evacuation increases' the risk of septic or tuber- culous pneumonia, as well as of general septic infection. If the case be urgent, however, there may be no choice, but to have the child’s head brought forwards and to incise the tumour from the mouth. Still, this procedure is highly un- desirable. To open the abscess at the side of the neck a two- inch incision should be made from the mastoid process along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, then, working inwards and backwards with the director and forceps, the abscess-cavity is at last reached. It should be syringed out, scraped, dried, and closed. If the iliac fossa be filled with “ pus ” coming from lumbar caries, the abscess may be opened in the region of the quad- ratus lumborum, the child being kept subsequently on his back. Psoas abscess, too, instead of being attacked in the base of Scarpa’s triangle, should be opened by the side of the lumbar spine. Nature, however, is frequently allowed to indicate the situation where the pus should be induced to find escape, but in her choice she is guided by anatomical rather than surgical principles. Though the primary collection of the pus (so called) is