371 A 0 UTE PA BA-EPIPHYSITIS. But if no tender or painful diaphysis or epiphysis be discover- able, the original seat of infection should be again inspected, and dealt with as occasion may direct. The lungs also should be examined all over. When two or more diaphyses are affected, it may some- times be expedient to amputate that which was the seat of the original disease and to temporise, maybe, with the other. But amputation of a single limb by no means suffices for the successful issue of all these pytemic cases. Double ampu- tation of the thighs is sometimes absolutely demanded. The fact of a boy having well-marked pyaemia is not of itself an indication that the primary seat of septic disease should be removed by amputation, though, doubtless, in many cases amputation offers the safest course. Pyaemia and metas- tatic abscesses appearing shortly after the primary manifesta- tion are much more likely to demand amputation than are similar conditions appearing later in the progress of the case. I have recently had under my care at St. Mary’s Hospital a boy of thirteen years, whose illness began a little more than a year previously, with acute para-epiphysitis in the lower end of the left femur. The bone was incised through the interval between the ilio-tibial band and the tendon of the biceps, a central sequestrum was removed from the end of the diaphysis, and septic granulation-tissue was cleared away. Within a few weeks he had severe constitutional disturbance, and acute diaphysitis manifested itself at the upper end of the right humerus. This was also dealt Avitli by scalpel and gouge, and everything Avent on Avell, though the femoral Avound did not heal. Some months afterwards he again came into the hos- pital and more sequestra Avere removed from the thigh. The Avounds had entirely healed Avhen he had a further disturb- ance, acute synovitis appearing in the opposite knee, and intra-articular suppuration ensuing. This pyaemic abscess Avas treated by free incision and mercuric irrigations, and he is now-convalescent, Avith freely movable knee-joints. I should think that this boy’s blood has been so fully leavened Avitli the toxins elaborated by the cultivation of the micrococci that he is noAv proof against further infection. Very different is this form of pyaemia from that which sometimes appears in the early Aveeks of septic osteomyelitis. In the latter case the