113 LYMPHOMATA. ■expected; but in others, as already remarked, it proves, on the first attempt, a little disappointing. Occasionally some inflammatory exudation into the sterno-mastoid follows the operation, but this clears up in due course, especially if the neck be kept perfectly quiet. In cases in which a small piece of the wound has been left open, or for some other reason no drainage-tube has been inserted, the dressing need not be disturbed for a week; and at the end of that time, when the stitches are removed, the wound is found soundly healed. I regard the operation for the removal of diseased glands as one of the great advances of modern surgery. For its introduction we are chiefly indebted to Mr. Teale. The treatment of enlarged glands by the electrolytic cautery, by thermo-puncture, and by injection has, in my opinion, nothing to recommend it. Lymphomata are tumours resulting from simple over- growth of lymphatic glands, independently of local irritation, tuberculosis, or sarcoma; they are merely hypertrophied glands. The process is an innocent and slow one ; the glands cluster, but they rarely fuse together, and they never sup- purate. They are most often seen in the neck, where they may form enormous, lobulated masses, along the whole length of the sterno-mastoid. Lying beneath that muscle, they cause it to be pushed aside, flattened, and thinned. They may be handled without pain ensuing, and they will be found so freely movable that the surgeon is invited to shell them out, They generally have a capsule, from which they may be readily dislodged. For the operation, there should be plenty of time and light at the disposal of the surgeon, for the procedure may be long and tedious. One of the chief points to be attended to is the prevention of haemorrhage. Every bleeding point should be secured, either by pressure-forceps, or by a fine ligature. If the surgeon enucleate the glands by using director and forceps, rather than scalpel or scissors, he will have little to fear from bleeding. The after-treatment will be just that which has been described in connection with the re- moval of tuberculous glands (page 109). The surgeon must be prepared to find a second or a third operation needed, even though he may have removed, so far as he could tell, every