266 SPINAL GABIES. as to say that it is never to be .used when the paralysis has come on as the result of inflammatory pressure upon the anterior columns of the cord; but the cases in which it can do what rest would have failed to accomplish are quite exceptional. The more quickly the curvature advances, the greater the risk of paralysis, as the parts have not time to adapt themselves to the altered conditions. Paraplegia is usually met with in those cases in which no visible abscess has formed, though there may have been a formation of a tuberculous granuloma within the spinal canal. Sometimes paraplegia is one of the early manifestations of caries. The paralysis may be of therapeutic value, as the child has to lie flat and quiet, during which time the bones obtain needful rest. The power of movement will probably return. A child with high dorsal caries Avas paraplegic on one occa- sion for fifteen months, but the trouble passed aAvay Avithout operative treatment. Another child Avas recovering from a second attack of paraplegia Avhen the last record of his case Avas made. Sensation being usually unaffected, the skin remains Avell nourished, and bed sores are of rare occurrence. Control over the bladder is preserved. The result is not always satisfactory, however, for chronic myelitis ascend- ing and descending from the seat of pressure entails an irremediable sclerosis. It is this condition that renders laminectomy, Avhen performed in old cases of paraplegia, so unsatisfactory in its results. In those cases in which the paralysis is due to the pressure of an abscess or of a sequestrum, the operation might effect great good, but the presence of myelitis too often interferes with success. Patients are frequently lost from tuberculous meningitis even Avhen the spinal trouble seemed to be going on Avell. Others have died from pyaemia, bronchitis, or some inter- current disease, such as measles or Avhooping cough, to Avliich, from his enfeebled condition, the child proves a ready victim. The commonest cause of death is the exhaustion and hectic caused by the chronic discharge, and the absorp- tion into the system of small doses of septic poison; the liver may groAv large and hard from albuminoid disease, and the urine become loaded Avith albumen. Fatal haemorrhage may occur from the abscess opening up some other large artery.