57 TUBERCULOSIS OF BONE. chronic, or subacute synovitis which follows ends in total destruction of the joint. Another child is rapped on the wrist with a stick or ruler, and chronic abscess is the result; a third child suffers from an intractable periostitis of the tibia after a fall on the shin; and, in a fourth, ulcer or abscess refuses to yield to treatment. The usually accepted theory is that the bacilli, or their spores, enter the system by the lungs, the alimentary canal, or by a denuded integumentary surface. If the patient be pre- disposed to the reception and cultivation of the bacillary growth, either from hereditary tendency or an acquired con- dition, it will enter the blood, lodge at some part weakened by injury or by disease, and, developing after its kind, set' up the peculiar form of chronic inflammation. These bacilli are, thus, harmless in the child with sound glands and joints ; but when those tissues are below par (as after an attack of zymotic fever, or after a local injury) to breathe the germ- laden air may be the cause of disaster or death. If this theory be a true one, it behoves the medical staff and attendants at a children’s hospital, Avhere bacilli must needs abound, to be sound in every tissue cap-a-pie. If the bacilli be of that desperately malign nature Avith Avhich they are discredited, how is it that so many children with tuberculous disease of spine and joint completely recover, as they most certainly do, under the simple treatment of rest and tonics ? I think that Keetley is right Avhen he says that tuberculosis tends to die a natural death, and that Time can kill local tuberculosis unassisted by the surgeon. The misfortune is that Time is so dilatory in the exercise of his healing poAvers, and that very often the patient or the joint, or both, are destroyed before the disease; but Avhen vigorously helped by the surgeon, Time often Avakes up, as it Avere. Tuberculosis of bone.—Tuberculosis attacks by prefer- ence the small bones, which are rich in cancellated tissue— as, for instance, the bodies of the vertebra (page 240), the carpus and tarsus and the diaphyseal ends. Usually the nutrition of the bone has been lowered by an injury, or by the child having just passed through some serious illness. ; So the bacilli tuberculosis get a foothold, and, undergoing successful cultivation, set up a very quiet and rarefying ostitis.