450 DISEASE OF THE KNEE JOINT. watched cases for years steadily recovering under conservative measures—genuine tuberculous knees which have, after much patience, completely recovered with perfect movement. It is a relief to find from time to time that a tuberculous knee is not necessarily a doomed knee; that the bacilli (if they are the actual cause of the disease) are not as yet entirely beyond our control. Some of these children to whom I am referring1 would, I feel sure, have had their knees excised if they had by chance found their way into hospital wards—but they are now walking about with sound and movable joints. At the very best, an excised knee gives but a poor result, for the limb must inevitably remain both short and stiff. A few months after the operation, everything looks satisfactory—the swelling and pain have gone from the joint, and, with a slightly raised boot, there seems nothing to be desired— but if the patient is seen five or ten years afterwards, the case is, as a rule, far less suitable for exhibition. Probably there has been so serious an arrest of development that the limb is several inches short. Possibly the junction between femur and tibia had begun to yield soon after the operator had lost sight of the child, and now the leg is, though synostosed, considerably Hexed on the thigh; or tuberculous disease may have started afresh, and serum is still leaking from unhealthy sinuses; or, lastly, the union may have broken down long since, and when the patient is seen after a considerable interval, it is found that he has been under hospital treatment elsewhere, and that the surgeon found it necessary to amputate the limb. Amputation. —If the child be rapidly going down hill, be losing appetite, growing restless, maintaining a high tem- perature in the evening, and a constant morning fall; if the joint-ends of the bones themselves have become softened, or the surrounding tissues grievously infiltrated with matter or riddled with sinuses; if the urine be albuminous, the liver large and hard from albuminoid degeneration; or if moist rales be heard over part of a lung, or the presence of disease in that tissue be rendered evident by occasional attacks of haemoptysis; or if the occurrence of severe diarrhoea threaten a fatal issue, amputation at the lower third of the thigh is clearly indicated.