TREATMENT. 423 adductor longus, or tensor fasciae femoris, or of a band of fascia lata, may be required. Bone-setters do infinite harm in attempting to “put in” such “dislocated” hips. In one case, by their empirical manipulation, the head of the femur was actually thrust right into the pelvis, as revealed at the autopsy. A very satisfactory way of getting down the flexed limb when the disease is at an end is by letting the boy wear a leaden sole to his boot. Dislocation of the femur from hip-joint disease is an extremely rare occurrence. Thomas went so far as to say that he had never met with an instance of genuine dislocation from disease. I have, however, met with one or two un- mistakable examples of it whilst performing excision. Cer- tainly the upper border of the great trochanter is often found raised when tested by Bryant’s or Nelaton’s line, whilst the shortened, flexed, and inverted position of the limb is highly suggestive of dislocation. But all this is generally accounted for by the carious and undeveloped condition of the head and neck of the femur, the ulcerated state of the acetabulum, and the chronic inflammatory thickening about the joint, as shown in Plate Y. Prognosis.—Many months or even years may pass before the disease of the hip joint has entirely disappeared; and, however prompt and efficient the treatment may have been, some deformity is likely to result. Children may recover absolutely; but in such cases the constitution has generally been fair, the disease vigorously treated, and the supervision long continued. Even after suppuration the abscesses may heal, freedom of movement ultimately returning to the joint, especially when the case has been one of suppurative sjm- ovitis rather than arthritis. Should the disease end in ankylosis, and the limb be in a good position, the result must be considered as satisfactory. Synostosis is brought about by the deposit of bone salts in the fibrous material into which the granulation-tissue in the head of the femur and in the acetabulum has been evolved. For the production of solid synostosis some years are generally needed. Abscess may form, and the patient sink from exhaustion, albuminoid disease, or intercurrent disease. Caries sicca may cause ab- sorption of the head of the femur without suppuration.