121 PERIOSTEAL SARCOMA. the bulging is at first more localised than in the case of the central growth; but, spreading along the periosteum, it may quickly surround the bone. When the sarcoma attacks the diaphysis at a distance from its ends, it soon spreads round the shaft and develops into an even, fusiform swelling. Like the myeloid sarcoma, the periosteal growth is often started by injury, and not infrequently it leads the surgeon into the mistaken diagnosis of abscess; exploration with a cannula and trocar, or, better still, with a scalpel, is the surest way of forming a correct diagnosis and of preventing regrettable loss of time. Early amputation high above the growth is the only treatment available. The only available treatment of sarcoma is by operation, and it should be both prompt and thorough. The removal should be effected through healthy tissue, and at a consider- able distance from the limit of the disease. Enucleation of the growth should be resorted to only when the tumour is a central myeloid sarcoma, early recognised and promptly dealt with. Kesection of the piece of bone invaded is far pre- ferable to scraping; but if there is any doubt as to the sarcoma being diffuse, amputation should unhesitatingly be resorted to. I greatly fear lest a too general adoption of limited operations in sarcomata of bone should be followed by an enhanced proportion of recurrence of the disease. That effort of the surgeon which may be commendable for its con- servatism in operations for injury, or for innocent growths, is usually out of place when the interference is for malignant disease, even in the case of the mildest form of sarcoma, the myeloid. The more rapid the growth of a tumour the greater the need for removal; early infancy does not preclude operation. An exploratory incision should be made. No time should be lost; high amputation may offer the only chance of success. Amputation, even at the hip, for sarcoma of the femur in childhood is not sq desperate, if done early in the course of the disease. Prognosis.—If surgical interference have long been delayed, the child may sooner fall a victim to deposits in the lung, the liver, or in the lymphatic glands or viscera; and this is particularly the case with disease affecting the testis.