327 LAPAROTOMY. limbs, pelvis, and chest should be covered in cotton-wool, so as to lessen the .shock from exposure. The incision should not be longer than may be necessary for the admission of two or three fingers into the peritoneal cavity, otherwise the operation may be impeded by the escape of distended coils of intestine. If the intussusception be not at once met with, search should be made behind the distended bowel in the right iliac fossa, or an empty coil may be followed onwards. The invagination should then be gently drawn towards the wound for inspection, and an attempt made to squeeze the invagi- nated portion into its proper position; it should not be pulled out, as this is more likely to cause the softened bowel to tear. But if the intussuscepted piece of bowel be so firmly glued that it cannot be reduced, the best plan will be to push it in a little farther, so as to have healthy tissues to deal with, and then to stitch the ensheathing and ensheathed layers, of peri- toneum together. A longitudinal incision is then to be made on to the invaginated mass through the ensheathing bowel, and the invaginated piece is to be resected, the cut ends being- stitched together. The operation is completed by closing the longitudinal wound in the intestine by Lembert’s sutures, and by closing the abdominal opening. This is Barker’s method of treatment, and it is well adapted for those des- perate cases for which it was designed. The abdominal wound should be closed by sutures which include the peri- toneum, and by superficial ones, and should be dressed with a pad of sterilised gauze and a many-tailed binder. On being put to bed the child must be kept very warm and quiet, a little hot, sweetened water being given by the mouth, and a little hot water with brandy by the rectum. Possibly a minute dose of morphia might be given by the skin, and, if the child survive the shock of the operation, fresh beef-tea might be given in small quantities. Chronic intestinal obstruction may be caused by the slow contraction of deposits left after peritonitis, by stricture at the junction of the pelvic and anal portions of the rectum (page 312), by imperfect development of the anus, or by invagina- tion of the large intestine, by habitual constipation, or by the compression of some new growth. The prominent symptom is