314 IMPERFORATE ANUS. if it be greatly distended it may be drained by a glass tube, which is secured in a small incision. If there be no urgency, the bowel need not be incised until it has become glued to the wound by plastic lymph. I have had occasion to perform this operation on six infants with imperforate rectum.* The first did well for three months, at the end of which time another attempt was made to establish a perinatal anus, a flexible bougie being passed down the sigmoid piece of the bowel. This was accomplished, but post-mortem examination showed that the serous covering of the rectum had been damaged. The second was a male child whose acute symptoms Avere re- lieved. by the operation, but Avho died three days later. The third had peritonitis at the time of operation, and died on the fourth day after it; the loAver part of the rectum Avas represented by a firm fibrous cord. The fourth case Avas similar. The fifth perfectly recovered from the colotomy; but after three months, on an attempt being made to establish the perineeal anus, fatal peritonitis supervened. The pelvic piece of.the rectum Avas found ensheathed Avith peritoneum. The sixth case resembled the third. In fiwe of the six cases the sickness stopped as soon as the intestinal contents found escape, the children obtaining immediate relief. Tavo of the children might possibly have been alive iioav had I but rested content Avith the permanent artificial anus. Amussat’s operation can rarely be done in children Avitliout implicating the peritoneal sac; but though the peritoneum be wounded in tAvo places in the loin the child may recover, just as it may after the groin operation (Littre’s); but the latter operation is so easy of perform- ance that it should always be chosen. Other objections to Amussat’s operation in these cases are that the descending- colon is apt to have Avandered from its normal position, even to reach the right side of the abdomen; and that the large intestine may be absent or imperfectly developed. If the groin operation be undertaken, this can be leisurely made out and, if necessary, the small intestine opened. “ It is argued in some surgical Avorks that the surgeon should * British Medical Journal, 1SS0.