243 TREATMENT. yielding occurs in early childhood. Even though the tumour persists, the child may grow up and be a useful member of society—but this is quite exceptional; nearly every child with spina bifida and meningo-myelocele dies. The cases most amenable to treatment, or likely to un- dergo spontaneous obliteration, are those in which only a narrow communication exists with the spinal canal—the more slender the pedicle, the less the probability of the sac contain- ing nerve elements. The first step towards obliteration, either by nature or art, is the closure of the neck of the sac. If the base of the tumour be large (and the communica- tion with the spinal canal probably free), and the covering thin; or if a tumour be associated with hydrocephalus, talipes, paralysis, arrest of development, or other congenital mal- formation, it is best left alone. If, as often happens, the child be thin and ill-nourished, no active measure should be adopted. Heroic treatment would bring discredit and dis- appointment. For the first few weeks no active treatment need be suggested; an opportunity should be given for the tumour to undergo spontaneous cure. But if the tumour undergo no change for the better, if the pedicle be small, and there be no association with other deformity, treatment may be undertaken, but Avith a full appreciation of the grave risks attending it. If no operation be contemplated, pro- tection should be afforded to the cyst by a moulded cap of gutta-percha or leather. Morton’s method consists in the injection into the sac of a drachm of a preparation of ten grains of iodine, and thirty of iodide of potassium, in an ounce of glycerine. About a drachm of the fluid of the sac is first withdrawn, so that the tension may not be increased by the injection ; being heavier than the spinal fluid, the injected fluid is not diffused along the spinal canal, but sinks to the bottom of the sac, and there quietly, or with local excitement, produces a change in the tissues. The communication Avith the spinal canal should be shut off during the administration of the injection, if that be practicable, and during and after injection the child should be kept in a supine position. A hypodermic syringe may be used, the puncture being made through healthy skin, obliquely and toAvards the side, so