297 RUGOUS BLADDER. a blow, or a severe contusion — urine may quietly collect in the kidney. Expanding its wall, it forms a large, dull tumour, which may occupy the chief part of one side of the abdomen, and also the space between the last rib and the back of the iliac crest. The disease may exist on each side. The size of the tumour may at times diminish with the escape into the bladder of some of the pent-up urine; such inter- mittence is highly pathognomonic of hydronephrosis. The diagnosis from chronic abscess or sarcoma (see page 122) is made by the aspirator, the fluid withdrawn being watery urine of a very low specific gravity. The tumour may be dealt with by aspiration, massage, or, if necessary, by incision through the loin—by nephrotomy, in short. Indeed, if the case be left untreated, complete atrophy of the kidney is certain to ensue, so that, no further addition being made to the fluid, its eventual absorption occurs, and the tumour disappears ; the “ cure ” taking place, however, at the expense of the kidney. I have recently operated on a little girl—a patient of Dr. Davson’s—for a large hydronephrosis (? congenital), re- moving it through the linea semilunaris, and suturing and dropping back the ureter. The child made a rapid and complete recovery. An advantage of treating hydronephrosis by abdominal section is that it affords the opportunity of examining the other kidney. Hsematuria generally results from vesical calculus, and in every case of blood-stained urine the child should be sounded. Other causes are injury to the kidney, bladder, or urethra; foreign body; malignant or papillomatous disease; acute nephritis, haemophilia (page 54), and renal calculus. Rugous bladder.—Occasionally the sound finds the lining of the bladder roughened by certain prominent folds which impart a peculiar leathery feel. What the exact pathological condition may be, I cannot say; certainly, the sensation is not due to the presence of definite tuberculous disease. Sometimes there is a mortary feel on sounding, as if the rough Avail Avere coated over Avith pliosphatic deposit ; and this may actually be the case, although the urine is at the time acid. Possibly from errors in diet, or from other causes, the urine had been previously so acid as to irritate the