253 ABSCESS. its appearance, still some must have existed, and il a small amount can be absorbed, why not a large ? Sometimes, though abscess threatens, the local disturbance quiets down, and no pus appears, convalescence becoming duly established. But, later, perhaps after injury or illness, the somewhat enfeebled tissues near the cheesy deposit (which was left at the consolidated region) become the seat of active changes, and the suppuration which threatened months or years before, makes its unwelcome appearance. This is known as a residual abscess■ Its treatment is that of an ordinary cold abscess (page 263). If inflammation have matted the surrounding tissues into a limiting Avail, the abscess will be found close to the diseased segments. Thus, pus from cervical caries may form post- pharyngeal abscess (page 205), from thoracic caries, dorsal abscess, and from the lorn vertebrse, lumbar abscess. Sup- puration which remains confined to the region in which it takes rise is more amenable to treatment than that associated Avith infiltration or wandering;’. In the latter case, long- sinuses and inaccessible cavities are apt to complicate the treatment. Often the matter is guided by fascial connec- tions to distant parts, there to be confined or discharged. From cervical caries the pus may point in front of or behind the sterno-mastoid, or pass into the thorax to form a mediastinal abscess, Avhence it may be discharged into the trachea, bronchi, oesophagus, or pleura; thus empyema may be produced. Tuberculous fluid from dorsal caries finds its Avay beneath the internal arcuate ligament into the sheath of the psoas ; and psoas abscess, from dorsal or lumbar caries may be guided by the sheath of the muscle beneath Poupart’s ligament and into Scarpa’s triangle; rarely it Avill Avander farther doAvn the thigh beneath the fascia lata. As the fusiform abscess descends beneath the common femoral vessels, it renders them prominent, making the pulsations of the artery con- spicuous, and effacing the furroAV of the groin. The collection of matter is apt, by folloAving the tendon of insertion of the muscle, to find its way on the inner side of the neck of the femur and to the buttock. On rare occasions the pus finds its Avay along the ribs or betAveen the abdominal