319 IS OHIO-EE 0 TA L ABS CESS. the finger nail, as troublesome haemorrhage may follow the laceration. Anal abscess.—Suppuration is usually superficial, and begins in the gland-tissue about the external sphincter. Though the neighbouring parts may be red and angry, the}- soon quiet down after the pus has escaped, and the short fistulous track closes up without further trouble. This simple condition is altogether different from that of Ischio-rectal abscess, which may arise without definite reason, especially in the tuberculous child, or may be caused by a piece of bone Avhich has been swallowed and passed through the Avail of the boAvel. The sooner that the tension of the inflamed tissues is relieved the better. The surgeon must not Avait for fluctuation, but, Avith a finger in the boAvel as a guide, should thrust a knife into the mass. Fistula-in- ano results, for Avhicli the ordinary operation will be even- tually required ; the parts should have quieted doAAm before the external sphincter is divided, and at the time of operating the sinuses should.be thoroughly scraped over. But before proceeding to operate, it must be duly ascer- tained that the sinus is not associated Avith chronic bone disease. Spinal abscess occasionally finds its outlet through the ischio-rectal fossa (page 254), in Avhich case a probe may pass an indefinite distance into the interior of the pelvis; or a soft flexible bougie may be directed toAvards the carious vertebrae. The skin looks dusky- and undermined, and Avith ordinary care it is hardly likely that a subject of this con- dition AATould be rashly submitted to operation. These ques- tions should be satisfactorily answered:—Has the child a stiff' or excurved back ? Has he disease of the sacro-iliac syn- chondrosis (Chap. XXX.)? Is he tuberculous? Even Avithout disease of joint or bone, the tuberculous child may be the subject of anal fistula, and unguardedly to subject him to a cutting operation might be disappointing. The tuberculous nature of anal fistula in children must ahvays be suspected; but if this suspicion be confirmed, it by no means folloAvs that the fistula is not to be operated on. The prognosis, hoAvever, becomes more grave. Condylomata are large and soft ;• they grow in crops near, not at, the anus. The neighbouring skin is moist, and