209 BLEEDING FROM THE NOSE. Should alarming haemorrhage occur, it will be best treated by squeezing dry a large piece of sponge, seizing it in a holder or forceps, and thrusting it up into the naso-pharynx. Deviation of the septum nasi to one side may be so marked as to cause serious obstruction of the nostril. By the use of a small pair of sequestrum forceps (the blades of which are enclosed in pieces of drainage-tube), the septum must be deflected to the middle line, and even beyond it; and it should be bent over again from time to time as may be necessary. The nostril should be kept open by a piece of stiff drainage-tube.. If the septum were too large, a narrow, triangular piece might be cut out of it by a tenotomy knife, the muco-perichondrium having been first raised from it. Deviation must not be mistaken for abscess of the septum; a probe passed up reveals a corresponding depression on the opposite side of the septum. If the triangular cartilage protrude below the level of the fleshy septum, having been denuded of muco-perichondrium, it may be cut off with the scissors, and the tissues adjusted by fine sutures. Epistaxis.—Bleeding from the nose is often , a sign of constitutional weakness, and a child who has suffered from it once is liable to recurrence of the trouble. Sometimes it is the ruddy child who is attacked, in which case the bleeding might possibly come as a relief to over-filled vessels in the head and neck. The haemorrhage may occur after excite- ment in play, or without apparent cause, and, passing off, may leave the subject but little the worse. Often it is the result of injury. When the bleeding is associated with the htemorrhagic diathesis (page 54), the effect may be very serious, if not fatal. The bleeding may be secondary to malignant polypus ; to tuberculous or syphilitic ulceration, to whooping cough, or to disease of the heart, lung, or liver. Treatment.—The child must be kept sitting or standing; if he become faint, the head should still be slightly above the level of the rest of the body ; it is said that the arms should be raised above the head. He must not be allowed to disturb the formation of a coaguluin by blowing the nose; and for a while he should not be allowed even to breathe through the nose, the nostrils being firmly compressed by the finger o