317 TREATMENT. Treatment.—The child should not be allowed to sit upon a closet-seat or chamber vessel, but should be made to lie upon his side and pass his motions into a cloth. And the mother or nurse should be instructed to pull the skin from the neighbourhood of the anus, upwards over the ischial tuberosity, each time a motion is to be passed, so as to put the mucous membrane of the lower bowel on the stretch. If diarrhoea cause prolapse, the bowels should be thoroughly evacuated, and then kept confined by castor oil and opium; rhubarb and soda mixture, and afterwards a course of soda and gentian, or cod-liver od and iron, with an occasional laxative, may be resorted to. Whether the prolapse be associated with diarrhoea or not, half-drachm enemata of glycerine may prove of excellent service. Prolapsed bowel should be well washed with Avarm or cold water, carefully dried Avith a soft cloth, dusted Avith finely-poAvdered alum, and returned by firm but gentle pressure as the child lies upon the face. This position should be kept up as much as possible, a large pilloAv being placed under the pelvis and thighs. If the case be obstinate, it may be advisable to fix the buttocks close together by a Avide piece of adhesive rubber strapping, so that prolapse is mechanically impossible, the child being kept prone, with the pelvis raised to the utmost. The diet should consist chiefly of milk, rice, egg, and beef-tea; coarse bread, oatmeal, fruit, and vegetables, should not be allowed, and all food should be given cold. Judging from the extremely bad cases I have seen, and successfully dealt Avith by patient and gentle measures, I venture to express the opinion that the heroic treatment A\rhich entails the employment of nitric acid, actual cautery, or scalpel, can rarely be necessary. I, at least, have never had to resort to it. Patient and careful supervision does all that is needed in these cases. If, hoAvever, on account of the obstinacy of the protrusion, the surgeon determine to perform resection of the prolapsed boAvel—an operation Avhich I do not think likely to be necessary—he should be careful to secure the upper piece. As soon as the section is made, tension Avould be removed, and there Avould be a great risk of the upper part of the