233 OPERATION. suture giving way on account of the child vomiting, crying,, or coughing must he reckoned with ; but I have had so many cases in which vomiting and crying occurred without doing harm that I am not much alarmed at their occurrence. If the sutures are soundly inserted they ought to hold. That woman would hardly be worthy of the name of “ nurse who allowed the child after operation to stick his finger into the mouth, but no one can prevent the child from sucking at the wound or thrusting the tongue into the line of suture. The Frontispiece shows one of the worst clefts that I ever attempted to close. It extended through the hard and soft palate, the widest part of the cleft being seven- eighths of an inch. One of the students of St. Mary’s Hospital, Mr. Sanders, made a water-colour drawing of the mouth, showing through the cleft the pharyngeal tonsil (see Frontis- piece). The staphylorraphy was a tedious affair, and though we succeeded in getting the edges of the cleft together, in a few days the whole thing had broken down. Moreover, the palate and naso-pharynx were covered with foul and tenacious mucus. Not a stitch held, and the cleft appeared as wide as ever, with an unhealthy gap along the inner border of either alveolar process where the lateral incisions were made. There was no sloughing. When the wounds had cleaned up I placed the child again under chloroform, and, passing in some strong sutures, brought the flaps together once more in the hope that they might unite by granulation. This hope was partly realised ; the hard palate is now entirely closed, but a very wide gap in the velum still remains to be dealt with. The pharyngeal tonsil has been depicted through the wide cleft. It consists of a dark, central aperture sur- rounded by an irregular granular mass of lymphoid material like that surrounding the apertures in the faucial tonsils. It is the enlargement of this lymphoid tissue which constitutes the disease known as post-nasal growths, or adenoids (p. 206). The faucial tonsils of this girl were enlarged, and these, with the adenoids, I removed before the palate was touched. The central opening of the pharyngeal tonsil leads upwards into a small cavity which is often spoken of as the “ pharyn- geal bursa.” Early in foetal life this cavity is continued