288 OCCLUSION OF THE VAGINA. If an error in the determination of sex be committed, it will be that an imperfectly developed male child is taken for a female. This is more likely to occur when the arrest of development has affected also the descent of the testes. Search must be made, from time to time, for the testes, which may sometimes be brought down by pressing with the thumb along the inguinal canal. Occlusion of the vagina is a congenital defect; it very rarely results from adhesion of the labia caused by antecedent inflammation. The septum extends from just below the urethral opening to the posterior commissure, and, being thin and bloodless, it appears grey and translucent when the labia are gently separated. If, as the infant lies on her back, the labia be firmly drawn apart by the fingers, the membrane tears through like so much wet paper, a few small specks of blood marking its connection with the labia. The thighs should be drawn up over the abdomen, so that the parts are thoroughly exposed; after the membrane has been torn, a small piece of cotton-wool, covered with vaseline, may be placed between the linear wounds for a few days. No instrument or amestlietic is required for the operation. But a second operation may be needed if the raw edges are allowed to remain in contact during the healing process. The condition just described is not the same thing as imperforate hymen, for the membrane is between the labia rnajora, quite near to the surface (and is usually discovered by the nurse as she is drying the child after the bath), whilst the hymen is deeply seated, being upon the uterine side of the labia minora. A genuine imperforate hymen is, therefore, not likely to be detected until after puberty, and does not concern us here. The discovery of the membrane between the labia rnajora usually creates a good deal of domestic alarm, which should be at once allayed by prompt rupture of the ab- normal film. Retention of urine in a male child is probably due to a small vesical calculus being impacted in the urethra; to sarcoma; to inflammation having occluded a narrow preputial orifice, or a pin-hole meatus urinarius, or to a piece of string having been tied round the penis. If, in a child with