416 HIP-JOINT DISEASE. traction in the line of the thigh, a wedge-shaped pillow may- be placed beneath the leg, for the sake of support; it will be made thinner as the limb comes down (Fig. 106). A bed- cradle is needed to keep the weight of the blanket from the toes; every morning the foot should be gently but fully flexed. A convenient bed may be made of a wide board, on which is laid a thin mattress. To the end of the board a short upright bar with a pulley is screwed. This arrange- ment is handy for travelling; and daily the child can be taken out of doors upon it. In the house it can be rested on two chairs. The stirrup and weight diminish pain and correct defor- mity by ensuring rest to the joint and to the apprehensive muscles. The weight does not draw the head of the femur from out of the acetabulum ; this is mechanically impossible. The head of the bone might be drawn somewhat out of the socket if at the same time the flexion were increased; but in its effort at bringing down the limb the strain bears on the front of the capsule. The weight upon the leg actually thrusts the femur farther into the socket, and increases the intra-articular pressure, but the compression is so even that it is comforting to the inflamed joint, and promotes absorp- tion, just as external compression may do in the case of fluid effusion in the knee joint. Moreover, it steadies the limb. Thomas’s splint consists of a flat piece of malleable iron f in. by T:V in., and long enough to extend from the level of the inferior angle of the scapula, down the loin, between the great trochanter and ischial tuberosity, to the lower part of the calf. If the thigh be but little displaced, only slight bending of the bar will be required to make it lie easily along, these surfaces (Fig. 107). The splint is to be moulded to the limb in its faulty position; the limb is not to be forced down to fit the splint. Sometimes, therefore, the splint has to be wrenched very considerably into the position of flexion and inversion; but, under the influence of the rest which is thus secured, the deformity steadily diminishes, so that the splint can be gradually straightened. For converting the bar into a splint three cross-pieces of iron are riveted on, one is bent round the chest, a second