434 DISEASE OF THE SAGRO-ILIAO JOINT. disease there is sometimes a puffy swelling at that part, and the skin over it becomes discoloured, and eventually yields to the pressure of the increasing abscess, intractable sinuses forming. Suppuration, however, does not ensue in all cases of sacro-iliac disease, and caries sicca is, fortunately, by no means of uncommon occurrence. Examination for abscess- formation should be made by the finger in the rectum. On pressing the iliac crests together with the palms of the hands, or on cautiously thrusting them asunder by grasp- ing the anterior iliac spines between the fingers and thumbs, the disturbance at the sacro-iliac joint causes distress. Striking the heel or the great trochanter would necessarily cause pain; but as pain would also result were the case one of hip or spine disease, this rough method of procedure is useless. Treatment.—The child should be put to bed and kept flat, and as much as possible in the prone position ; he must not be alloAved fo sit up, as that attitude disturbs the joint. If the weather be warm, he may be carried out into the open air, if this can be done without disturbance of his position. With rest in bed, fretting pains will probably pass away. Should they persist, two leeches might be applied over the tender spot. I doubt if much is gained by edclosing the pelvis in a stiff bandage ; there is practically no move- ment at the joint, and the material used cannot but render the horizontal posture more irksome. Armlets (page 414) and a stirrup may be useful in managing a refractory patient. When the disease is apparently arrested, and if the child is deemed sufficiently trustworthy, he may be fitted with a Thomas’s hip-splint, and allowed to get about on crutches, as shown in Fig. 109. When not on crutches, however, he should be kept lying flat on a couch or hearth-rug, and on any return of the pain he ought straightway to be put back to bed. If, in spite of the adoption of palliative treatment, the disease continues to advance, it is advisable to cut into the joint, and with trephine, gouge, and spoon thoroughly to clear away the articular surfaces and all the tuberculous granulation-tissue. The joint is within easy access, and readily lends itself to erasion. To wait until abscess has formed and suppuration has found outlet in unhealthy