RICKETS. 70 weight received by them be increased by the weak spine being fitted with a steel “ support.” But the child may grow out of all these deformities, provided only that he be kept lying down until his skeleton is more strongly developed, due attention being paid to matters of general hygiene. There is a disordered proliferation in the cartilage at the ends of the diaphyses, and in the periosteum, which are the sources of the normal growth of the bones in length and in thickness. The cells for the growing bone are formed in vast numbers; they are swollen, and heaped through the matrix without histological order, and, as ossification advances, clus- ters of cartilage cells become shut off and forgotten, as it were, remaining for a long while in the expanded bone, or growing out as bony spines and nodules (v. Exostoses, page 136). Thus the extremities of the long bones are expanded, especially the carpal ends of the radius and ulna, the tibia and fibula being affected in a less degree. The wrist may appear as if it pos- sessed an articulation above the swelling as well as below it, and the child is then described by the mother as “double- jointed.” The rickety child is sometimes unusually well developed, heavy and plump, but, on taking the end of the radius between the finger and thumb, the actual and un- healthy state of the child becomes manifested. This may be discovered in certain cases in which there has been a complete absence of dyspeptic symptoms. Unless the rickety diathesis be effaced at a tolerably early period, a definite trace of the enlargement of the end of the radius persists through adult life. Treatment—The child should be kept evenly dressed, and always warm, and it is absolutely necessary that the air and the food should be fresh. As regards the general hygiene, reference may be made to page 12, and with regard to drugs —which, however, is a far less important matter—reference may be made to page 61. The child must not be allowed to walk or sit until the bones and ligaments are strong enough to support his weight. He should be kept fiat. The administration of phosphorus in minute doses has acquired considerable repute in the treatment of rickets and of the deformities resulting from it. The most convenient preparation of the drug is the oleum phosplioratum, in doses