3 TEMPERA T UBE; P ULSE. hebetude ; if the appetite continue good, the respiration, pulse, and secretions normal, and there be an absence of rash, local inflammation, or sore throat. Thus it is generally advisable that the record be kept as a confidential communi- cation between the nurse and the surgeon. The temperature may be taken in the groin, or, if the child be very restless, in the rectum. Even in perfect health the child’s temperature may be a degree or so above “ normal ”—normal (rectal) being about 99° F. The temperature may have no direct connection with pathological processes; its variations may be the result of a want of due organisation of the nervous system. In a boy, after lithotomy, the temperature suddenly ran up to 105° F. It was evident, however, that there was no cause for alarm; the child was lying calm and contented, and was interesting himself in a picture-book which he was holding up for view. In a few hours the reading of the chart was again normal, and convalescence was duly completed. It is the steady ascent of the temperature that forebodes ill, just as it is the gradual fall in the barometer that surely tells of the coming storm : “ Long foretold, long last ; Short notice, soon past.” In the peevish or excitable child a trivial incident may send up the mercury several degrees; and time after time has one found the administration of a dose of castor oil, the alteration of a splint, or the change of a dressing bring the index again to normal. This much is certain—that if after several trials with the thermometer the reading be found normal, there is no need for anxiety; in this way the instrument may prove of great value even in the hands of those who are but little skilled in the matter of diagnosis. The pulse, which is exceedingly rapid in childhood, affords but slight trustworthy information of the physical condition; one requires to know the child, and to know the pulse also, before proceeding to draw inferences from what seems to be a departure from the normal. The normal pulse-rate of a little child is about 100 in the minute. The pulsations, especially in the case of a nervous child, may vary by fifteen or twenty