SPINAL GABIES. 258 say so, there is often a want-of thoroughness in the treat- ment of spinal disease, early as well as late. In a private family it is generally advisable to inaugurate the treatment under the superintendence of a professional nurse; she need not stay longer than is necessary to get matters into perfect working order. L nfortunately, however, perfect rest is rarely obtained; the various supports aim at securing rest Avhilst the patient goes about; but this is only the second-best line of treatment, for the “rest” is less perfect. A child does not fret or pine if he be kept constantly in the horizontal position, and he grows more than contented with it when he finds that it frees him of pain. After from six months’ to a year’s rest, if he have been going on well, relaxation in the treatment may be gradually allowed, a jacket being applied. If there is difficulty in keeping the child absolutely quiet, he must wear a poroplastic jacket as he lies in bed. The collar, made by Spratt and Brooke, of NeAv Bond Street, is moulded on after the (“ undressed ”) leather has been soaked in hot Avater. The hardened case is afterwards lined with chamois leather. The front and back halves overlap on the shoulders, and are fixed together by straps and buckles. I have given the jury-mast of Dr. Sayre a fair and extensive trial in the treatment of cervical and hi'j'h dorsal caries, and have noAAr entirely discarded it. It is heavy and cumbersome, and offers no ad- vantage over the leather cervical collar (Fig. 63), Avhich bears up the chin and occiput. The rotatory movement of the neck which the jury-mast is constructed to permit, is an absolute disadvantage, rest, and always rest, being the one indication. The cervical collar gives relief by ensuring this rest, rather than by actually lifting the superimposed Aveight, as may be inferred from the fact that its influence is equally beneficial in high dorsal caries. A child Avas frequently crying on account of pains in the Fig. 63.—Breastplate and Collar for Cervical or High. Dorsal Caries.