479 HAMMER TOE. with as for a congenital defect (page 470); in this way a splice is put into the tendon, and the acquisition of the normal position becomes possible. The foot is then fixed at a right angle. O . Case.—A girl of about nine or ten, with extreme talipes equinus of each foot, the result of infantile paralysis, had for years walked only on the tips of her toes, but soon after the division of the tendons she walked flat and well. No india- rubber springs or strappings could have accomplished such results, even if the enfeebled skin could have borne their pressure. If a foot is to be comparatively useless, at least let it be so in as nearly the normal position as possible. A thickened sole and heel are generally needed in these cases. Inversion of the foot may be due to the presence of a sore about the ball of the great toe.' If the sore be not cured, it is likely that the muscles on the inner side of the ankle will in time shorten and produce uncomplicated talipes varus. I have recently had under treatment a boy with a little toe Avhich Avas so badly deformed and so sore that, in order to avoid hurting it, he walked persistently upon the inner border of the foot, and thereby acquired spurious talipes valgus. Hammer toe is a congenital deformity, and is probably caused by a shortness and rigidity of the plantar ligaments at the first inter-phalangeal joint; the first phalanx (generally of the second toe) is raised, the second phalanx being bent down again, so that the first inter-phalangeal joint presents a stiff and salient angle upAvards, Avhich in due course becomes marked by an inflamed corn. In early childhood the digit may be permanently straightened out by persistent manipu- lations by the nurse ; or by Aveaving a strip of adhesive plaister over the hammer toe and under its neighbours, arranging it so that it keeps the toes on the same plane. If the toe be still unmanageable, a digitate steel plate Avitlx a strap for each toe may be Avorn under the sole of the foot night and day, a specially large boot being made. The plantar fibres of the lateral ligaments are usually too short, so that the head of the phalanx is rigidly fixed in its elevated position. The best treatment for a severe case consists in excision of the head of the first phalanx. Amputation of the toe has the serious