256 SPINAL GABIES. the left condylar joint. Plastic deposit has also joined the left side of the posterior arch of the atlas with the occipital bone. ihe occipital bone has sunk backwards, so that, to avoid disturbance, it might be steadied and fixed by the elevated shoulders. To obtain so favourable a result early diagnosis and im- mediate treatment are needed. Unfortunately the first symp- toms are particularly liable to be ascribed to “ rheumatism.” Disease of the atlas and axis may extend to the odontoid process, and cause rupture of the transverse ligament, with, consequently, compression of the medulla oblongata. The child may hold his head so much awry as to suggest torticollis (see page 184), from which, however, the pain and tenderness at once differentiate it. He cannot shake his head with those short, sharp movements which imply “Yes,” and he cannot bear any pressure on his head. There are pains and tenderness beneath the mastoid process, and pains in the area of distribution of the greater and lesser occipital, and of the great auricular nerves. Case.—A boy of twelve complained to the doctor who attended tliq school of pains in the neck; they grew worse under the treatment adopted. He was, therefore, taken home to be under the care of a physician, Avho also ascribed the pains, which radiated over the head and neck, to rheumatism. Lastly, a surgeon was called in (not the author), and high cervical caries was diagnosed. The boy Avas then kept flat on his back, Avitli large sand-bags along either side of his head and neck. Motor paralysis in all four extremities occurred. One night the odontoid process gave Avay, and immediate death resulted. The constitutional treatment consists in the use of cod- liver oil and steel Avine; but if a child turn against the oil, he had better not be forced to take it—probably the stomach cannot digest it. A teaspoonful may be rubbed into the skin eveiy day. The compound syrup of the phosphate of iron, quinine, rhubarb and soda, the laxative iron mixture, may be prescribed as occasions direct, but it may be Avell to leave the child iioav and then Avithout medicine, or to give him daily a little maltine and cod-liver oil, or a sardine Avith unsuspected cod-liver oil—“ as a treat.”