469 TREATMENT. himself that his instructions are being efficiently carried out. Three or four times a day the foot and the muscles of the leg should be rubbed and kneaded, the heel drawn down and the foot methodically untwisted. If, after a few weeks of this treatment, the condition do not improve, though the employ- ment of a slight amount of force suffices to place the foot in the desired position, it may be evenly enclosed in a domette roller, or a soft, closely-fitting sock, and fixed in an over- corrected position between lateral splints of house-flannel and plaster of Paris, being held in the over-corrected position until the plaster has firmly set. It may then be left un- interfered with for several weeks, at the end of which time, the twist having disappeared, the parts may be again treated by massage and manipulations, or the foot may be readjusted in the over-corrected position with fresh gypsum. The tendon of Achilles should be divided without hesitation if there be any considerable elevation of the heel. Procrastination or temporising, so often adopted from a mistaken kindness to the mother, is a grievous injury to the child. After the foot has been for about half an hour in the strained position ensured by the gypsum, discomfort wears off. It is not so, however, when a child is being treated with a Scarpa’s shoe; in that case the improvement is obtained chiefly through the localised pressure of narrow straps, a pressure which creates a constant irritation. With the gypsum bandage the pressure is evenly distributed along the foot in the over-corrected position. When the gypsum splints are applied, the end of the sock should be cut off, so that the mother or nurse may be able to watch the colour of the toes. If they become dusky, or be constantly cold, the casing must be removed and the child brought for inspection and probably for further adjustment. The plaster-of-Paris method enables one to treat the club foot of a tender infant with security and success, and without the expense of a mechanical apparatus requiring daily attention and, even then, occasionally making the skin sore. Thus children may be dealt with in the out-patient department of a hospital, or in the outlying districts of a country practice, with as much convenience and success as if they were inmates of a hospital. An important matter in applying the splint is to