372 ACUTE SEPTIC DIAPHYSITIS. dose of toxin cast into the blood-stream not only paralyses the nerve-centres, but it may be so potent that the patient sinks rapidly beneath its fatal influence. Septic diaphysitis is not always of the same intensity. A mild attack may give rise to but slight local disturbance, and to the quiet formation of a localised abscess or a small seques- trum. In this respect the disease may resemble certain forms of syphilitic (page 93) and tuberculous (page 59) ostitis. Complications.—The commonest aird most serious com- plication of acute septic ostitis is pyaemia. Indeed, these' cases are essentially from the beginning pyaemic. Certainly the constitutional symptoms are those of pyaemia, and it is only a question as to the entrance of the staphylococci into the blood-stream, and the establishment of secondary foci of suppuration, as to whether or no the general signs of infective blood-poisoning shall be manifested. In some cases the septic intoxication is so acute that the subjects perish almost at the onset; at any rate, they do not live long enough to give the usual manifestations of the disease. In other cases the children struggle bravely through the acute stage of pyaemia, to fall victims to a lingering form of that disease, or to hectic fever, albuminoid disease of blood-vessels and of the viscera, or to exhaustion. One of the most likely complications of the para-epiphy- sitis is extension of the disease into the neighbouring articu- lation. In the case of the primary disease attacking the upper end of the femoral diaphysis (Ch. XXIX.), implication of the hip joint is almost inevitable, as the end of the diaphysis is included within the capsule. But in the case of a diaphysis being inflamed near a shoulder, knee, or ankle, the pus would have to burrow into the joint. This it may accomplish, either by transversing the junction-cartilage and epiphysis, or by creeping beneath the periosteum of the epiphysis. At one time I had under my care in the same ward two children into whose knee joints the pus had made its way direct from the seat of septic infection. In one case the pus had effected its entrance by working (Fig. 88) through the head of the tibia, and in the other by passing beneath the periosteum and the capsule. In each case the invasion was signalled b}r an attack of acute arthritis, but a resort to immediate resection of the