NJEVI. 140 application of collodion; or by two or three applications at intervals of a few days. The contraction of the collodion squeezes out the blood and prevents its subsequent return. If 30 per cent, of corrosive sublimate be added to the col- lodion, the application proves more vigorous; it is not suited, however, for painting over a mucous surface. If collodion fail, ethylate of sodium may be tried. This sodium-alcohol robs the skin of the elements of water, and the caustic soda which is then left against the tissue quietly destroys it; however, it is of no great value in the surgery of naevi. If nitric acid be used, it can be conveniently applied on the end of a lucifer match or by a fine glass brush, the healthy skin surrounding the ntevus being smeared with vaseline as a protection against the spreading of the acid. Occasionally hideous scars are seen which have been caused by the careless application of the acid. In one case I saw a cicatricial furrow extending down the cheek from the scar of a nasvus near the malar bone, the nitric acid having trickled over healthy skin ! The bottle containing the acid should be kept well out of the reach of the child’s arms and legs. A nasvus over the anterior fontanelle (a favourite seat), on the eyelid, or in the tongue, mouth, or rectum, cannot be treated in any of the ways just mentioned. Electrolysis.—The decomposition of the naevoid tissue by the continuous current is a satisfactory method of treatment, but if the mass be large and deeply seated, electrolysis is unsatisfactory. A convenient battery is one of zinc and platinum. The positive pole is connected with a wet sponge, placed upon the skin, while the needle, or needles, in connec- tion with the negative pole, are introduced into the midst, and into the periphery, of the naevoid tissue. A slight blackening or scorching of skin in contact with the needles, and a crackling of the hydrogen disengaged within, are signs that all is going well. The battery and needles should be previously tested in a little water, to see that the combination of elements is in working order; decomposition of the water demonstrates efficiency. The needles should be made to penetrate every part of the tissue, Avhich quickly becomes hardened from the coagulation; they should be gradually and slowly withdrawn,