80 KNOCK-KNEE. make a partial section of the femur with a key-hole saw and completing the fracture by force. Having “cleansed” the area of operation, I make a transverse three-quarter-inch incision on the outer side of the thigh, through the deep fascia, a little above the condyle, clearing a passage for the narrow-bladed saw by a raspatory, with which also the perios- teum is raised. Along this instrument the saw is slipped, the femur being then cut, as nearly as one can tell, through its anterior two-thirds. Sometimes, when the bone is very hard, the first attempt which is then made to break the femur fails, and the saw has again to be introduced. If both limbs require operation, the second is treated after the first has been temporarily dressed; they are then fixed straight in the apparatus described in the preceding paragraph or in lateral gypsum splints. Of the objection to the presence of bone-dust in the wound I know nothing in practice, though in theory it is sometimes raised. The long stalk-bladed saw, which has been specially designed for subcutaneous osteotomy, is by no means suited for section of the lower end of a child’s femur, or of a tibia; a key-hole saw answers every require- ment. In the educated hand, a Macewen’s osteotome may be safe enough ; but I have heard of very grave accidents in •connection with its employment—accidents which could, I think, hardly happen with a saw which is being worked from the front of the bone, the movements of which even .an inexperienced hand is able to appreciate and to guide. Advice to the osteotomist.—Operation being demanded, the surgeon must assure himself that the child is in a proper state for the ordeal; that the urine is free from albumen, and that the temperature is not foretelling a coming storm ; that the throat is not sore, and that there is no scarlet fever near. The instruments, the part to be operated on, and the hands of the surgeon and of his assistants, should be absolutely clean. The landmarks are to be carefully noted, and then, by a strong- bladed scalpel, a course is cleared down to the bone for saw or •osteotome. If serious bleeding occur, the wound may require enlargement, so that the vessel may be secured. The progress of the osteotome is to be carefully watched, as there is some danger of the cutting edge being driven right through the limb.