52 TRACHEOTOMY. if, as sometimes happens, the air finds its way into the pleural cavity, fatal collapse of the lung is likely to take place. The permanent removal of the tube involves anxiety and patience. If the child do well, it may be taken out for an hour or two on the second, third, or fourth day; but if there he spasm or dyspnoea, it must be slipped in again. The dilator should be at hand in case of difficulty occurring in the re-introduction. Before removing the tube, and to ascertain the condition of the glottis, a small piece of wet oil-silk may be laid over the mouth of the tube (after the removal of the inner tube), so that air has to pass through the glottis and between the limbs of the outer tube. At each inspiration this film is sucked over the opening, and the entering air has to be drawn through the larynx. This frightens the child at first, but he soon gains confidence, and so prepares himself for breathing through the glottis. It may be some weeks, or even months, before the tube can be omitted by night as well as by day ; the dyspnoea is always worse at night. If the child be very nervous, the tube may be removed and the glottis exercised under chloroform. Impediments to removal of the tube arise from apprehensiveness on the part of the child, diphtheritic paralysis of the muscles of the glottis, blocking of the larynx by granulation-tissue, or adhesion between the vocal cords.* Such cases are difficult to manage, and fortu- nately they are rare. Granulation-tissue and adhesions may be broken down by passing a probe through the glottis from below, or it may be necessary to perform thyrotomy (page 53), and so to cleara way the granulations. The tube would be left undisturbed in the trachea for a few days subsequently, or the communication through the glottis might be re-established by the use of O’Dwyer’s tubes, Avhich may prove of signal service in the treatment of these troublesome cases. Papillomata of the larynx may not be visible on laryngo- scopic inspection, but by a process of exclusion their presence may be diagnosed almost with certainty. The}7’ are small pedunculated and sessile outgrowths of the mucous lining, which may all but completely fill the cavity of the larynx. They may be congenital. The dyspnoea has no intervals of * See paper by Thos. Smith : Trans. Med.-Ghirg. Soc., vol. xlviii.