IMPERFORATE ANUS. 313 Excision of the hardened tissues is a speculative and un- satisfactory procedure. If the obstruction increase—and from the nature of the case this difficulty must be expected —the question of colotomy may be considered. Imperforate anus.—Occasionally, though, the rectum is perfectly formed, a thin membrane skins over the anal orifice; the diagnosis and treatment are evident. If the anus be small, it will require dilatation with the finger, the nurse being taught how to treat the child (Fig. 71). There may be no trace of anus, though the pelvic part of the rectum is properly developed (Fig. 72). It is then necessary to introduce a sound, as a guide, into the bladder or vagina, according to the sex, and, with the child in the lithotomy position, to dissect up along the sacral curve in search of the bulging cul-de-sac, exploring carefully with a firm director. If the search prove successful, dilatation must be effected by the dressing forceps and finger, the nurse being instructed how to maintain the dilatation. To diminish cicatricial contraction, the end of the bowel should, if possible, be brought down to the surface, and there secured by sutures. Mayo Robson has advised that, if need be, this dissection be carried up into the peritoneal cavity, and that the dilated pelvic piece of the rectum—or, failing that, the colon—be brought down and opened, and secured at the surface-wound. If, as is apt to happen, the pelvic outlet is abnormally small, no attempt should be made to find the bowel at the breech; for if, as would be not very unlikely to happen, a piece of small intestine were brought down and opened, the child Avould probably soon sink. Littre’s operation.—If the search for the large intestine prove ineffectual, the child should be placed upon its back and an inch incision made in the left iliac region, through the peritoneum. The first piece of intestine to present is usually the sigmoid flexure, but it is attached by so wide and free a mesentery that it might be taken form piece of small intestine; absolute size of bowel is no guide as to its kind. The colon being greatly distended, no trace exists of the longitudinal muscular bands, but on following the bowel upwards and downwards its identity becomes established. A loop of it is then stitched to the margin of the wound, and