438 DISEASE OF THE KNEE JOINT. may be partially or completely obscured; it is not “ floating.” Moreover, the joint can be moved, provided the examination be gently conducted. Extra-articular abscess, which may be started by acute bursitis or cellulitis, should be quickly opened and scraped. If left, the pus may find its way into the joint or set up disease in the neighbouring bone. Abscess in the subcrural bursa is at times so suggestive of articular disease that it may be impossible to say with certainty whether or no the joint is implicated. I have met with several cases of this sort ; doubtless, if they had been allowed to run their course, they would in time have involved the joint. There is with this condition considerable consti- tutional disturbance; swelling and oedema exist about the knee, but the joint is not bent, and the enlargement appears to involve chiefly, or altogether, the upper pouch of the synovial membrane. If there be but a small quantity of pus the case may look like one of inflammation of the lower end of the femur, but the thickening is almost entirely at the front. The fluid, even when the child is under an anaesthetic, cannot be driven beneath the patella nor by the sides of its ligament, and the patella is not floated. The treatment consists in cleansing the part and making an incision into the swelling. On introducing the finger, the limits of the bursal cyst are manifested. The abscess must be irrigated, scraped out, and closed : the knee must be firmly and evenly compressed and the limb fixed on a splint. Hydrops articuli sometimes follows slight chronic syno- vitis. The most probable predisposing cause is tuberculosis or syphilis. The joint should be aspirated, and compressed, and enclosed between lateral splints of gypsum or leather. Minute doses of grey powder or iodide of potassium may be given ; iron and cod-liver oil may be needed. Bursal tumour behind knee.—The bursa beneath the insertion of the semi-membranosus is often distended with serous effusion. The cyst is rounded and tense Avhen the knee is extended, but when it is flexed, and the tendon is rendered slack, the bursa disappears between the tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius. As the bursa may communicate with the interior of the joint, its enlargement must not be treated by injection. As a placebo, tincture of