DIPHTHERITIC PARALYSIS. 29 due to arrest of the heart’s action, through paralysis of some of the pneumogastric or other cardiac nerves, to fatty degene- ration of the ventricular walls, or to the slow formation of a thrombus. The child may be quietly amusing himself with his toys when, after a few convulsive gasps, all is at an end. Such a calamity may supervene without any warning, and when least expected. The convalescent should, therefore, be constantly watched, and kept absolutely quiet. Muscular paralysis often follows diphtheria; the power of accommodation is lost, letters and pictures are con- fused, and perhaps squinting occurs. The voice becomes thick and “ nasal.” The child coughs and chokes as he drinks (for food goes the wrong way), and he becomes thin. The soft palate is motionless, and flaps with respiration, so the child snores in sleep. The muscles of the palate are often the first .to be affected and the last to recover. In those cases which are attacked by paralysis this symptom generally appears in the second or third week from the beginning of the illness. The absence of “ knee-jerk ” may be an early, prominent, and lingering symptom, but the legs may have become weak or unmanageable before it is detected, and in certain cases of diphtheritic paralysis the knee-jerk is unaffected for a while; but, if looked for day by day, it will sooner or later be detected. The leg paralysis may begin with a numbness, or with an exaggeration of the knee-jerk. The child stumbles as he walks, and he may become clumsy with or ataxic in his hands. The limbs, intercostals, and even the diaphragm, may be affected, death occurring from asphyxia, pneumonia, or syncope. The muscles show the reaction of degeneration response to faradism being diminished, but to galvanism increased; still, the muscles do not waste. Sometimes there is considerable anaesthesia in the neighbourhood of the affected muscles. The fact of the paralysis so frequently passing off must be taken as ev idence of its not being due to destruction of ganglion cells; it is probably due to degeneration of the nerves, brought about by the tox-albumens in the blood which have been set free by the bacilli of diphtheria. Serious paralysis may come on with great suddenness, and after the most