114 ENLARGEMENT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. enlarged gland on the first occasion. The result of removal of multiple lymphomata is very satisfactory. Hie constitutional treatment demands fresh air; a liberal diet; cod-liver oil, and liq. arsenicalis or iodide of iron. But the drug is not yet discovered which can prevent the recurrence of the glandular enlargement or determine its subsidence. In Hodgkin’s disease, or lymphadenoma, the glands are enlarged in various parts of the body; they are smooth and movable, and vary in size from a pea to a hen’s egg—the disease is, in fact, a general lymphadenomatosis. Compared with simple lymphoma, it is, fortunately, a rare disease, and,, microscopically, it differs from it by the great excess of cell- growth. This general disease may, apparently, begin in a. group of glands as the result of injury. At the onset, only one group may be affected; as, for instance, the glands of the neck. • In due course those of the corresponding axilla, the groin, or the mesentery, are implicated. They increase rapidly in size, but they are not tender; they do not fuse together or with the surrounding tissues, as sarcomatous glands would do, and they do not suppurate. They form large tumours, which are of a soft and brain-like consistence. The lymphatic elements of the tonsils, liver, spleen, and kidney are affected with a similar hyperplasia, and the spleen may be enlarged to ten or twenty times its usual size. This disease resembles leucocytluemia, with the exception that the multiplication of white corpuscles is wanting. It is not dependent upon tubercle. The child has irregular attacks of high fever, grows Aveak and anaemic, and eventually dies exhausted. Sometimes death is due to pressure on important parts, Avith resulting dyspnoea or dropsy. The course of the disease is apparently uninfluenced by constitutional remedies, and the enlargement of the glands being but local expression of a general dys- crasia, surgery can give but slight help; sometimes it funs an acute course. To recognise the existence of this malignant disease is to admit the advisability of avoiding active surgical interference in the early months of glandular enlargements generally. It Avould be a misfortune to attack indolent glanduke concatenate by operation, and then to find that the cervical enlargements Avere but the foreshadoAving of this