275 UMBILICAL HERNIA. hernia. It lias happened that such truant bowel has been tied or cut with the umbilical cord into which it was pro- truding. Possibly an officious nurse may commit the damage by cutting shorter the stump of the umbilical cord, which the medical attendant has purposely left longer than usual ; in such a case she should be cautioned, therefore. Though most of these hernias gradually disappear if left alone, still judicious treatment advances the natural obliteration of the aperture. A penny-piece wrapped in linen, and fixed by strapping flat over the ring, answers Avell; no conical pad should be allowed, as this would retard the obliterative process. All straining efforts should be checked. If the umbilical cord of the new-born infant be found unusually bulky, the medical attendant should examine the root of it with finger and thumb, to see if it contains pro- lapsed bowel. If it do, he should thoroughly squeeze the knuckle into the abdominal cavity, and then tie the cord close against the surface of the body. In this way obliteration of the hernial sac is promptly and effectually obtained and the hernia cured. True congenital umbilical hernise are, however, of rare occurrence. The variety of umbilical hernia usually met with in infancy and childhood is that in Avhich, on account of the umbilical cicatrix being too soft and weak, the intra-abdominal pressure first causes a bulging at the scar, and then an abso- lute emigration of the bowel—acquired umbilical hernia. Treatment.—On seeing an umbilical hernia, the first thing to be done is to find out why the protrusion has occurred. It may be that it was acquired because the infant had been perpetually straining with vomiting, in which case, if a flat pad is strapped over the aperture and the food and feeding are properly regulated, a cure may be gradually effected. Sometimes, again, the hernia is caused by straining set up by a tight foreskin, by diarrhoea, constipation, a rectal polypus, or by whooping cough. In such cases a radical operation is obviously out of the question. Then, again, in the rickety child, when the bowels are distended by the accumulation of gases, and the linea alba is frayed out and the interval between the recti abdominis is widened, the umbilical scar must needs be weakened, and the occurrence of an exomphalos is invited.