INCOMPLETE FRACTURES: TREATMENT. 381 nutrient arteries of tlie long bones course in their respective bones towards the elbow and from tlie knee. Now, the epiphysis towards which the nutrient artery runs is in- variably the first to join the shaft, therefore the elbow-ends of the humerus and radius are attached early, whilst the lcnee-ends of the femur and tibia are attached late. Thus, in the growth of the arm, the elbow epiphyses are of secondary importance to those near the shoulder and wrist; whilst, in the lower limb, the knee-ends of the femur and tibia are of chief concern. Roughly, one may say that the epiphysis towards which the nutrient artery is running is ossified to the shaft soon after puberty, while the other epiphysis delays its attachment until about the twentieth year, that is, until growth is completed. The long bones may be broken in utero by injuries received by the mother. During parturition, also, fracture may take place, even in the well-developed and healthy foetus, either from the forcible expulsive efforts, or under the influence of vigorous assistance rendered by the mid- wife. A case is on record in which, from officious help at birth, the lower epiphysis was separated from the shaft of the femur, and the upper one from the tibia. The treatment of incomplete fracture demands the forcible effacement of angular deformity. The straightening should be accomplished under an anaesthetic, and during its per- formance it is quite possible that the unbroken fibres of the bone may be felt to yield, and a definite crepitus may declare itself. The limb is then put up in moulded splints. For fractures in the limbs I generally use lateral splints of house flannel which have been soaked in creamy plaster-of- Paris. The constitutional condition must be attended to (page 70). Lime-water may be advantageously mixed with the milk, and especially so in hot Aveather. These cases generally do well, the bone becoming quickly consolidated, Avhilst the improved hygiene to which the child is subjected produces general improvement. The less that the part is dis- turbed the better, and it will be advisable to preserve it long at rest, lest the uniting medium be found of insufficient stability, and angular deformity supervene. If, either without, or in spite of, surgical treatment, marked angular