75 KNOCK-KNEE. that the extra growth of bone takes place, with considerable thickening at the inner side of the upper end ol the tibial diaphysis. An outgrowth of bone is often found below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, caused, in all probability, by the strain on the fibres of the internal lateral ligament. This long-continued irritation sets up an increased blood-supply, and an overgrowth of bone results, the starting-point of the bony outgrowth being probably a nodule of cartilage which has been isolated at the end of a rickety diaphysis (page 136). Valgous children have usually a heavy trunk, and a large head, which the weak-jointed feet and legs are unable properly to support. The ligaments yielding, the distribution of the articular pressure is disturbed; when once started, the deformity increases rapidly. Heredity has no direct influence on the condition, though parents of feeble constitutions, themselves valgous, are likely to beget weak-kneed children. Excessive standing, or the carrying of heavy weights, has a prejudicial influence. Weakly children should not be allowed to carry about small brothers or sisters, nor help in the heavier matters of housework. Stockings should not be suspended by an elastic band descending along the outer side of the knee if there is the least inclination to genu valgum. Sometimes one leg is valgous, whilst the other is bandy. This is due to the mother carrying the child always on one arm, whilst she throws the other arm around the knees to make them fit into the hollow of her waist. Thus, if the feeble child be carried always upon the left arm, its right leg will probably be valgous, whilst the left will be bowed. In order to estimate the amount of deformity, the leg should be fully extended, so that the lateral ligaments of the joints may be tightened, and the tibia rigidly locked upon the femur. The patella, which is apt to be displaced over the external condyle, must be made to look directly upwards. With but a little flexion of the joint, sufficient rotation and rocking of the head of the tibia are produced to efface all the valgous deformity. In most of these cases there is, at any rate at first, a considerable looseness of the joint. On the outside of the extended valgous knee, the thick fascial insertion of the tensor vaginae femoris and of