‘ GROUP”; DIPHTHERIA. 15 that I see of “ sore throats ” with laryngeal obstruction, the more firmly do I believe that they are all diphtheritic. Like tetanus, diphtheria is due to the inoculation and local cultivation of micro-organisms, the general symptoms being due to the absorption into the circulation of the toxic products elaborated by them. And it is an interesting fact that the injection of the filtered fluid from a cultivation of the Klebs-Loeftler bacillus (without any of the bacilli) into the lower animals produces the symptoms of true diphtheria. In an outbreak of diphtheria the earlier deaths “may be referred to croup, the later to diphtheria ” (Thorne Thorne). The subjects of “croup” were those in which the exudation was confined to the larynx or trachea. “Diphtheria appeared to be developed from what was originally a simple sore throat, and the infectious character was gradually increased.” Without doubt, nasal and pharyngeal catarrhs are favourable to the development of the parasite. The sore throat of scarlet fever is apt later to become diphtheritic, and occasionally diphtheria follows measles, especially if the latter disease has been associated with a sore throat. It is sometimes impossible to differentiate diphtheria from scarlet fever. Even the most experienced practitioners are not proof against error in this matter. If an attack of diphtheria does not predispose a child to future attacks, it offers him no immunity from them. The common age of the subjects of diphtheria is from tAvo to six years. As regards the period of incubation, if Ave say a little less than a A\reek, we shall not be far from the mark, though sometimes the uvula is found red and swollen, and the fauces are inflamed Avithin tAventy-four hours after exposure to infection. The cause of the outbreak of the disease is not always to be deteimined, especially if there have been no cases of sore throat in the neighbourhood for some time. The drains or closets may be grossly at fault; or in some direct or round- about Avay a sewer may be ventilating into the house, or even into the room in which the child sleeps; or the drinking Avater may be poisoned by a neighbouring soil-pipe or cesspool. I know of three instances in Avhich the disease seemed directly due to the inhalation of air laden Avith the odour of manure