144 NAiVI. linos were scored through the layers of the epidermis, and just into the true skin. The cauterisation was still further increased by cross lines where the pigmentation and hair were blackest. The crops of hair which grew after operation became lighter and lighter, and the disfigurement faded in the most marked degree. No puckering of the skin, or retraction of the eyelid ensued. There is no reason why a small hairy mole should not be removed by the scalpel, if its presence cause disfigurement; but probably the better line of treatment is with the thermo-cautery. The treatment must, in any case, be effectual, and should never degenerate into mere irritation or excoriation. Moles may, later in life, become the starting point of epithelioma or of melanotic sarcoma. Of this I have met with characteristic examples. Growing moles should be promptly excised. Port-wine stains of the skin may be dealt with in a manner similar to that detailed above, or patiently treated by electrolysis. Oft-repeated puncture with the needles of the negative pole (page 140) could hardly fail to render the discoloration paler, even if it did not entirely efface it; but for rapidity and thoroughness of treatment, the benzoline cautery is to be preferred. The finest point, raised to a white heat, is to be lightly stabbed just into the true skin in a deliberate and regular manner. No bleeding occurs. Lymphatic naevus is similar in its nature to the various blood vascular tumours just considered. It may be observed at birth, or may take on growth subsequently. It is apt to occur upon the tongue in the. form of a small, pale nodule, or as nodules, which may be snipped off with .scissors. Should the dilated lymphatics infiltrate the skin of a limb, great hypertrophy may result. As extensively affecting the tongue (macroglossia) and lip (macrocheilia) the disease is considered on pages 197 and 198. When a limb is hypertrophied by general lymphatic dilatation, carefully regulated compression by Esmarch’s band may effect a cure. Aneurysms are of very rare occurrence in children. Their presence would most likely be due to the arterial wall having been softened and stretched owing to inflammation set up by