DIPHTHERIA. 16 which was being carted along the road or spread upon a field. Children are highly susceptible to such influences. (See “ Report ” to Local Government Board, by Dr. Airy, 1890.) The disease seems specially fond of damp weather and clayey soil. A direct association may exist between moist walls, or the mouldy patches clinging to them, and an outbreak of diphtheria. Therefore, the land about the dwelling-house should be thoroughly drained, damp rooms be well ventilated, and mouldy walls be frequently covered with lime-wash. A child with an ordinary catarrhal sore throat, if exposed to the atmosphere of sewers, faulty closets, or sinks, is peculiarly liable to be attacked with diphtheria, the organisms eagerly seizing upon and undergoing their malignant cultivation in the enfeebled membrane. They are primarily entangled in the saliva, and are then absorbed into the pharyngeal or tonsillar membrane; or, entering the larynx with the inspired air, they rest in the delicate lining of the larynx. If the receptive tissue were in perfect health, it might, per- chance, be able to withstand their attack, but if it be rendered peculiarly vulnerable by “ weakness,” “ cold,” or catarrh, the worst results follow. The child who has a “ weak throat,” or who is “ croupous,” is specially liable to be attacked with diphtheria, and thus a simple local inflammation—and in the beginning diphtheria is but a local affection—becomes malig- nant and infecting. Further, with a persistence of unhealthy surroundings, diphtheria may become a chronic disease, breaking out from time to time with renewed energy. In America it is far more often encountered as an epidemic than it is in England, probably because that country possesses larger tracts of ill-drained land. There are cases on record in which diphtheria broke out directly after a fall into foul river water. Children should be kept away from stagnant water, manure-heaps, cesspools, piggeries, and open drains. They often get sore throats when exposed to such sources of infection, and fortunately the disease sometimes shows itself in no more serious form. In London a large proportion of the cases of diphtheria come from the neighbourhood of stables and cowsheds. The dis- turbance of heaps of manure or decaying refuse, and the cleaning out of stables and cowsheds, are apt to be lollov ed