THROMBOSIS OF UMBILICAL VEIN. 273 it agrees, a mixture of cod-liver oil and iron is given, with an occasional laxative. And here, practically, the palliative measures come to an end. In a considerable proportion of cases, however, abdominal section gives excellent results. If the peritoneal surface be found scattered over with grey tubercular specks, or if, on the other hand, the bowel be found soft and traversed by ulcer- ations, operation can avail little or nothing; but even then death is not likely to be hastened by the introspection, whilst the child has been offered the only possible chance of recovery. But in those chronic cases in which the cavity contains serum —the result of the bacillary infection, or pus—the product of the bacterium coli, or of staphylococcus, or serum and pus together, the laparotomy may be the means of arresting the disease and restoring the child to robust health. Before operating, a soft catheter should be passed into the bladder. The child being placed on a hot-water mattress and well covered up, and the front of the abdomen having been duly cleansed, a two-inch incision is made below the umbilicus, the peritoneum being opened with great care lest adhesive inflammation should have glued a piece of bowel to it in the track of the knife. If the fluid be serous, it should be made to flow out, and the wound should then be closed, neither flushing nor drainage being resorted to. But if the cavity contain pus these measures should be adopted, a glass or rubber drainage-tube, or a skein of mercuric gauze, being passed through the lower part of the wound and into the bottom of the recto-vesical pouch. In one case (briefly recorded on page 243) there was no suspicion of the boy being the subject of tuberculous peri- tonitis until—when operating upon his testis—a mass of omentum appeared, studded with grey tubercles. This boy is now, after the lapse of some years, apparently quite well. Thrombosis of umbilical vein, the result of septic infection at the truncated cord, is associated with local swelling and tenderness, and is likely to entail fatal pyaemia. The treat- ment consists in using boracic fomentations, and • in the incision and irrigation of abscess, whether at the umbilicus or in other parts of the body. Before death the infant is s