475 TALIPES GALCANEUS. deformity of childhood can be greatly improved, even if it cannot always be entirely removed. Of the various operations I would give preference to that of Mr. Lund, who enucleates the astragalus, and allows the upper surface of the os calcis to ascend between the malleoli, where, in due course, an excellent joint becomes established. The subject of talipes equinus scarcely requires separate consideration after what has been already said of it in its association with inversion of the foot. Slight talipes calcaneus, which as a congenital affection is exceedingly rare, can, as a rule, be corrected in infancy by systematic frictions and manipulations carried out by the nurse. If the deformity prove obstinate, the foot might be straightened out under chloroform and fixed in the extended position in plaster of Paris. Subcutaneous division of the tendons at the front of the ankle is little likely to be called for. Paralytic calcaneus may be treated by excision of half or three-quarters of an inch of the elongated tendon of Achilles.* The ends should be cut obliquely and sutured splice-wise. When the whole of the calf muscles have under- gone fatty degeneration, however, little benefit can be ex- pected from the operation. Talipes valgus, as a congenital defect, is rare. If the deformity cannot be cured by frictions and manipulations, nor by the methodical employment of plaster of Paris, it might be necessary to divide the peroneal tendons. But if the treatment with plaster of Paris be begun early, it is unlikely that tenotomy will be required. Pes cavus, or holloiv club foot, is a secondary deformity to talipes equinus and, according to Parkin, is due to the toe- walker trying to bring down the heel for increased support. It is not associated with extreme equinus, for all attempts to arch down the heel are then hopeless. Case.—As the boy from whom Fig. 116 was made walked, the chief part of his weight was received by the ball of the great toe, where the integument was thickened, inflamed and tender. He could not get his heel to the ground. A long walk made him tired, sore and lame. The instep was highly * Brit. Med. Journal, 1884, pp. 1058 and 1147.