25 ANTITOXIN. water has just been squeezed by wringing them in a towel, and they should be constantly changed. This may give much comfort to the child and may help to relax spasm, but it should not delay an inevitable tracheotomy. The sick-room, cleared of all unnecessary hangings and furniture, should be kept at about 65° or 70° F. The cot should not be brought close up to the fire, nor should steam be directed upon it. The cot should not be made into a tent, as the hangings shut out the needful supply of fresh air, and are in the way of doctor and nurses. A close and stuffy atmosphere is highly prejudicial; the air should be fresh, and moistened by a spray-producer or bronchitis kettle; carbolic vapour, or cresolene, should be liberal^ diffused as well as steam, so as to destroy the foetid odour of the breath. I strongly object to a steam spray being sent on, or even near to a child who is craving for oxygen—not watery vapour. Indeed, inhalations of pure oxygen may be found of service. A sheet kept moistened with carbolic acid solution or sanitas should be fixed at the doorway, and there should be no need- less passing to and fro. Friends and relations must be kept out of the room ; there is clanger of the infection being spread by them; moreover, the sick child is disturbed by the sight of anxious faces. Even if the attack came on in the height of summer, a large fire should be kept up day and night. Thus a thorough ventilation is maintained, and, the current of air setting in from the door to the fireplace, there is less chance of infectious particles being carried into the rest of the house. The carpet and all superfluous furniture should be removed. Now and then the window may be thrown open for a few minutes, and from time to time sulphur may be burnt in the room ; the more fresh and pure the air the better. Probably no chemicals have the power of dissolving the false membrane in situ. Experiments in the labora- tory may give results which clinical observation entirely fails to endorse. Antitoxin.—As regards the value of the antitoxin treat- ment, I am not in a position to speak definitely, though I em- ploy it in every case. We cannot yet know its exact value, and we must not allow enthusiasm to carry us in advance of