203 TEE AT ME NT. settled by gently passing the tip of the finger round the back of the soft palate. It often gives rise to pigeon- breast, and to enlargement of the cervical lymphatic glands. The treatment consists in the administration of cod-liver oil and iron; at the same time astringent gargles should be used, or the tonsils brushed with glycerine and alum three times a day. This palliative treatment should be given a fair trial; it sometimes succeeds, but too much must not be expected from it. The child should be put on a wholesome diet, and, if practicable, sent to a place where the air is fresh. He should be warmly dressed, but the neck should not be en- circled with a woollen comforter. Though the angle of the jaw marks the situation of the tonsil within, there is such a mass of intervening tissues that the application to the skin of tincture of iodine, or any other drug, is useless. If left to itself, the enlargement may diminish as puberty approaches, though it may not entirely disappear. But if the hypertrophy be considerable, the medical attendant must not await the chance of an ultimate, though distant, subsidence. Operation should be undertaken if, after fair trial of general measures, no equivalent improvement be manifest. If, when the child is first seen, the mass be hard and painless, little improvement can be anticipated. In the case of sickly children, the operation may sometimes be delayed until the health has been improved by medicine and diet; but, generally, the sooner amputation is performed the better. There is a widespread superstition against amputation of enlarged tonsils; parents are apprehensive lest the voice should be spoilt thereby, or the sexual function impaired. The fear is absolutely groundless. Amputation of the tonsil is not a very painful operation, but a timid child should not be submitted to it except under the influence of an anaesthetic. He should be laid supine with his head hanging back over the end of the table, or else sitting in a chair opposite a good light, his arms and chest secured with a towel. When he is under the influence of the anaesthetic, the assistant who has been administering it can