477 TALIPES EQUINUS. spinclle-like and chilly. Actual size of the limb, therefore, is not a sure guide. If the child can be made to move its toes and feet the case is not a paralytic one. Imperfect develop- ment of the thigh as well as of the leg points to paralysis, and in any case of doubt the normal reaction of the muscles to electrical examination confirms the diagnosis of the congenital defect. Talipes equinus is a paralytic effect, and paralytic equino- varus is never so marked as is the congenital variety; more- over, in the former condition the limb is often flail-like and cold. The variety of talipes assumed by the paralysed foot is due partly to contraction of unopposed muscles, partly to shortening of paralysed muscles, and partly to the natural inclination of the paralysed foot, assisted in many cases by the pressure of the bed-clothes. In many cases of lameness without apparent cause, the error is due to slight talipes equinus, and it is very apt to be overlooked. When a child walks badly and limps Avithout evident reason, he should be stripped and laid flat on his back on a firm bed, and the presence of hip disease excluded. The knees and ankles are examined and the equality of the limbs tested; the points of the heels are placed together on an even surface—such as a book—and it is seen if the feet are of exactly the same length. Then it is noticed if the feet are capable of an equal amount of flexion upon the leg. In each case the angle at the front of the ankle should be reducible to someAvhat less than 90°, Avhilst the knee is extended. If one ankle yield less than the normal amount, the probability is that there is contracture in the calf muscles, in Avhich case the circumference of the leg will be less than on the sound side. The amount of the difference in the development of the tAvo legs may be nicely estimated fry encircling the calves in the grasp of the fingers and thumb. In all cases of raised heel, the tip of the sole of the boot Avill be used up before the rest sIioavs signs of Avear. If the child be made to stand upon the table, and told to bear his AA^eiglit evenly upon the two feet, the knees being straight, it Avill be found that a sheet of paper can be slipped in beneath the imperfectly developed heel. The limping may entirely disappear after section of the