398 FRACTURES. evidence of a fissured skull, and of damage to the dura mater and arachnoid, and of laceration of the brain. Treatment.—No further interference than the occasional tapping of the tumour is advisable, but if suppuration ensue, free incision, washings, and drainage are demanded. Pressure by pad and bandage may prove serviceable. The child must be kept quiet, and fed on milk and water. The bowels and the bladder must be duly attended to. Cephalhaematoma is a blood-tumour, occurring between the bone and pericranium, the result of blow or fall, of bruising which may result during the passage of the head through the pelvic straits, or of the pressure of the forceps of the obste- trician. Vessels are ruptured, and blood is effused beneath the pericranium. The effusion may follow a slight injury over the parietal bone of an unhealthy boy, may attain a great size, and may persist for a long while, the blood remaining fluid. There is sometimes a strangely deceptive feel about these blood-tumours, especialty if the area of the contusion be limited: a firm, definite, and elevated ring of inflammatory lymph surrounds the softer and bruised tissue, and sometimes ossification actually takes place in the bone-forming perios- teum which overlies the border of the tumour. Feeling this for the first time, one might suppose that the central part marks a depressed fragment of the skull, and that the raised and hard margin is the edge of the bony gap. There are, however, no “ brain-symptoms.” In the case of fracture, the hard ridge would not be above the level of the rest of the skull, but with the blood-tumour it is so. Sometimes the cephalhsematoma presents slight pulsation. The tumour is distinguished from meningocele by its not lying over a suture. When a thin layer of effusion exactly occupies the parietal area, the condition may suggest absence of the parietal bone; as the blood is absorbed at the periphery, the bone seems to be ossifying. When the ossification around the tumour is considerable, the head remains misshapen through life. Treatment.—The surface of the tumour may be gently rubbed with oil several times a day, to promote absorption,