282 MASTURBATION. carefully watched, and, if thought expedient, his hands might be tied behind him. Cantlie reports the case of a boy of tour }7ears who was suffering from a guileless indulgence in the habit. Inspection should be made as regards the presence ot a long or partially adherent prepuce, retained smegma, or chronic eczema, and of rectal irritation. It there be the slightest indication, the boy should be circumcised; or his bladder may be searched from time to time for a possible calculus. The sounding may be under- taken without an anaesthetic, provided it be done with care and delicacy; and the boy should understand that it may be repeated from time to time should occasion demand it. It is well that some punishment be held in terrorem. In the case of girls, constant and kindly supervision is needed, and great cleanliness of the parts must be ensured. Drugs which may be of service are iron, quinine, bromide of potassium, and small and frequently repeated doses of sulphate of magnesia. The child should not be allowed to eat for some hours before going to bed and he should be got up early in the morning. The bed-clothing should be light and the mattress hard. Probably the baneful effect of the practice has been con- siderably exaggerated. Sir James Paget remarks that when practised frequently at any time before or at the beginning of puberty, masturbation is quite likely to produce exhaustion and nervousness, and that these mischiefs are nearly sure to happen if the excesses be practised by those who are liable to epilepsy, or any other form of nervous disease. Mr. Lawson Tait writes: I have always found the chief difficulty to be that of persuading those who have charge of schools that the practice was a physical delinquency rather than a moral evil; and that the best remedy was, not to tell the poor children that they were damning their souls, but to tell them that they might seriously hurt their bodies, and to explain to them the nature and purport of the functions they were abusing.” Balanitis is an inflammation of the glans penis and prepuce; its common cause is phimosis. There may be profuse purulent discharge, which, escaping through the pre- putial orifice, makes the case look like one of gonorrhoea, with