32 DIPHTHERIA. hemiplegia mentioned above the disease had been taken from the mother, who had so slight a soreness of the throat that not only was she not laid up, but was doing her work without interruption. Others of her children were also affected, some fatally. The nature of the disease is sometimes declared with certainty only on the occurrence of albuminuria, exhaustion, or characteristic paralysis ; or by the individual becoming the centre for fresh infections. Brothers and sisters who have been with the sick child must not go back to school or mix with other children, lest, though they at present show no signs of disease, their breath or saliva be the means of spreading infection. It is through some direct source that the contagion is usually propagated, but particles coughed upon a coat or dress, drying there, and subsequently brushed off and inspired as dust, may give rise to infection. Such particles may hang about the furniture or walls of the sick-room and cause subsequent infection. The greatest care should be taken about disinfection, even though the disease is rarely propagated except by direct contagion. Sponges and feathers should be burnt, and towels plunged in a pail containing a solution of carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate. The fumes of burning sulphur, with steam, are the best areneral disinfectant for rooms and clothing. Indeed, the periodical burning of sulphur in the sick-room is expedient; children are but little irritated by the fumes. Discharges from the patient should be received in vessels containing carbolic acid powder or some other trustworthy disinfectant. Those in attendance should be liberal in the use of dis- infectants, and should, as a special precaution, wash out the mouth, and gargle the throat from time to time with some mild astringent. And when the atmosphere of the room is abundantly laden with the germs of the disease, and mucus from some cause or other is hanging about the fauces of the surgeon, he need not hesitate to set the example of clearing his throat, and ridding himself, in what may not be generally considered the most refined method, of a likely source of in- fection. In order to reduce to the utmost the chance of carrying infection, everyone whom duty calls info the sick-room ought to have a loose dress, hanging at the entrance, with which he