420 HIP-JOINT DISMASH At first the splint may be left off when the child is put in bed, once a Aveek, twice a Aveek, every other night, and; lastly, if all go on well, every night. Then it may be left off for an hour every afternoon, as a reAvard for careful and obedient behaviour. Gradually, all going on Avell, the child may discard it every Sunday, twice a Aveek, every other day, going about Avith the high boot on the sound limb, and Avith the crutch. Then he may leave the splint altogether, using still the high boot and crutch. Eventually the boot may be loAvered and the crutch shortened. At last the boy finds his patience reAvarded by all restraint being taken aAvay. During this period of approbation chi vet piano va- sano applies Avith ecpial force to surgeon and patient. Each time that the child is brought for inspection the surgeon should examine him after the method illustrated on page 410 ; Avhen, if lor- dosis be detected, or if the child-Avince as the thigh is gently abducted or rotated, the joint must again be abso- lutely fixed, for it is certain that the disease is not yet at an end. Paracentesis of the capsule.— There is a peculiar springy resistance in the limb which is fixed by acute effusion within the capsule, and there is generally a distinct bulging to be made out about the joint itself. The puncture may be made through the gluteus maximus, or by working inAvards from beloAV the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The surgeon does not hesitate to tap an acutely distended knee, and Avhy should there be so much delay in the case of the hip ? I strongly urge the practitioner in every case to look out for a fulness at the base of Scarpa’s triangle, and for a doughy swelling between the trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, and to explore it with a clean cannula and trochar. The operation may prove of great value, enabling the surgeon lo bring doAvn a limb Avhicli, previous to the paracentesis, Avas resolutely fixed. It may, moreover, completely arrest the disease, and if aspiration shoAV that the joint contains pus the Fig. 110.—S, Sequestrum in abscess cavity at end of femoral diafphysis; b, Track of trephine ; A a, Line of attachment of capsular ligament of hip- joint; EE, Line of junc- tion of epiphysis.