316 PROLAPSUS RECTI. descends; indeed, when an inch or more is protruding, the ring must needs be composed of the entire thickness of the rectal wall, the rectum being then turned inside out. This is the common condition of prolapse in children, the peritoneal coat coming down as well as the muscular and mucous coats. There is another variety of prolapse, in which, on rare occasions, the upper part of the rectum slips out, in a cir- cular fold, without carrying down the lowest part of the bowel. This is a true intussusception, and it is apt to be mistaken for a large polypus. But digital exploration round the inside of the bowel, and the presence of a central aperture in the protrusion, should render the error unlikely to occur. It may not be in itself a disease, but, like hernia (page 345), should be regarded as a symptom. Among the children of the poor it is often the local expression of con- stitutional weakness. Sometimes it is the result of weakness, aided by the forced expulsive effort of whooping cough or chronic diarrhoea. It may be due to the straining associated with habitual constipation, worms, rectal polypus, phimosis, or stone. In a case of obstinate prolapse the preputial and urethral orifices should be inspected, the rectum should be explored with the finger and the bladder Avith the sound. The habit of allowing a child to sit for an indefinite time trying to pass a motion, and threatening to keep him there until this is accomplished, is reprehensible in the extreme. I have already referred to the danger of letting a constipated child sit over a chamber vessel containing hot Avater (p. 158). If the prolapse be alloAved to persist, the venous return from the invaginated piece Avill be delayed, and the tissues Avill become engorged and oeclematous. Strangulation will then ensue and gangrene supervene. If it happen that the prolapse is reduced in this stage, sloughing Avill extend into the peritoneal cavity, and fatal collapse will take place. I have recently had such a case in my Avard at the Children s Hospital. Death occurred within tAvelve hours of the child’s admission, and at the autopsy it was found that perforation, the result of gangrene, had made a Avide opening through the peritoneum. In this case the long-continued straining hadgiven rise to complete prolapse of the child’s bladder (see page 309).