281 TREATMENT. The nurse should be instructed to draw the prepuce back, and gently to wash beneath it when the child has his bath. Many an infant is allowed to suffer irritation in this respect from false modesty on the part of the mother or nurse. If in the cradle, or when on the nurse’s knees, the infant pull at his prepuce, an examination should be made. Sometimes there is adherence near the corona, which has rendered the removal of some of the secretion impossible. It will then suffice to tear the prepuce back beyond the corona, or to break down the adhesion with a director. If the prepuce, though long, be not tight around the glans, its orifice only being con- stricted, dilatation with the blades of the ring dressing- forceps may suffice. But this procedure is somewhat un- surgical and very often disappointing; it is far better at once to perform circumcision, for the parts demand absolute cleanliness. I am a strong advocate for the operation of circumcision whenever there is any difficulty in uncovering the glans, or when, after having retracted the prepuce, there is difficulty in getting it forward. (For Circumcision see page 283.) The daily drawing to and fro of a prepuce which is swollen and tender, on account of the forcible dilatation to which it has been subjected, is likely to distress the child, and to be objected to by the mother and the nurse. The old-fashioned operation of circumcision, if properly performed, leaves nothing to be desired. Once done, the trouble is at an end; whereas the “ dilated ” prepuce must be watched, lest contraction recur. A long prepuce may cause such constant peripheral irritation as to direct unwholesome attention to the part, and engender, if not suggest, a habit one would be glad to pass over in silence; the practice alluded to obtains, I have been informed, less amongst the circumcised than amongst other boys. As regards the treatment of masturbation, applications to produce soreness of the parts are likely to lead to aggra- vation of the disease. I believe that the best course to adopt is to take the boy aside and to talk to him kindly and quietly, explaining that unless he breaks himself from the practice a physical ruin may be awaiting him. But if he be not old or sensible enough to profit by such advice, lie must be