TUMOURS. 128 dissected out, may be found to have occupied a distinct fossa in the bone. Thus, dermoid cysts are often met with in the regions of the orbit, forehead, and scalp; sometimes they attain considerable size. Their epiblast.ic origin has been already alluded to. They differ from the sebaceous cysts of the adult in that they are generally hard, and are deeply seated—beneath the orbicularis, for instance. They are not in the substance of the skin; they may be quite beneath the occipito-frontalis. They are often in connection with the periosteum, or em- bedded even in the bone itself. The skin moves freely over them, and sometimes they move over the bone; but they may so retard the ossification of the subjacent wall as to entail its perforation. They contain a cheesy, sebaceous matter, epidermal tissue, or thin serous fluid; fine hairs may grow in them. Dr. Ogle described a dermoid cyst which had gone astray to the inner surface of the dura mater at the torcular Herophili—actually pushing aside the venous sinus. Within the cyst a lock of hair had curled itself up in a bed of sebaceous matter and epithelial cells. I had a case in which a small occipital dermoid extended into the cerebellum, where it spontaneously set up fatal suppuration. The cyst con- tained hair. Diagnosis.—When near the angle of the orbit, a dermoid must be distinguished from a meningocele. (Fig. 21.) A der- moid is smaller than a meningocele, and of more definite outline, and it may not have been noticed at birth, qs a menin- gocele would be. None of its contents can be squeezed back into the cranial cavity; there is no increase in size on crying, and compression applied to it does not disturb the brain. A small cyst which is partly embedded within the frontal or parietal bone, and immovably connected with it, may possibly be mistaken for an exostosis, so hard is it. A needle introduced establishes the diagnosis. From a nsevus it may be distinguished by its hard and regular outline, the absence of discoloration of skin and Fig. 21.—A Meningo- cele : distinguished from a dermoid cyst by the fact that some of its contents could be squeezed back into the skull.