81 OSTEOTOMY. The osteotome is introduced upon the flat of the knife blade; when the bone is reached, the scalpel is withdrawn, and the osteotome turned and steadily placed upon the spot selected. “ Do this lightly, so as not to damage the periosteum. Hold handle of osteotome firmly in left hand, with ulnar border of that hand against the skin of the limb. When two-thirds of the bone is divided, the rest can usually be broken. Never use osteotome as a lever to break bone. When both limbs are osteotomised, the first wound can be compressed by an anti- septic sponge and gauze bandage, while the other is being ope- rated on. Use no drainage-tube unless you expect danger of tension and suppuration.”* If after operation the toes become dusky, if blood or other discharge soak through the dressings, or if the temperature rise to 101°, the wound should be inspected. In a rickety child new callus cannot be trust- worthy at once : the operation improves only the local, not the general, condition. Retentive apparatus must, therefore, be worn, and the child entirely kept off his feet for some months. Lastly, it is quite possible that the operation may so disturb the growing end of the bone that the epiphysis fuses too early with the diaphysis, considerable arrest of develop- ment ensuing in consequence. Osteotomy of the tibia may be needed as well as of the femur in extreme knock-knee, especially when there is hyper- trophy below the inner tuberosity; and as the mere section of the bone may not suffice for straightening the limb, it may be necessary to remove a wedge either by saw or chisel. This necessity, however, rarely occurs, as simple oblique section usually suffices. In extreme antero-posterior curvctticre of the tibia, a wedge has occasionally to be removed, but even then the section need not extend right through the bone. If this opera- tion be done with a small, delicate saw—which I prefer to use—a semilunar flap of integument and periosteum is raised from the antero-internal aspect of the shaft, and when the in- cisions in the bone have passed well back, the wedge may be broken out by strong forceps. To complete the operation the tibia must be bent or broken straight by the hands, and the tendon of Achilles divided. The leg is then dressed in steril- ised wool gauze and gypsum splints. After the tibia has been * Keetloy, “ Index of Surgery,” p. 296 (1884).