331 THE A TMENT. the part then covered with hot-water dressings under oil-silk. A mild but effective laxative should be given, supplemented, if expedient, by the use of a simple enema. Some would go so far as to treat the child with saline purgatives, so as to make sure that the bowel is not being worried by a collection of fasces or gas ; but such a line of treatment appears unneces- sarily severe. On the other hand, the treatment of pericsecal inflammation by the continuous use of opium—without the administration of a simple laxative dose—is not to be com- mended; both extremes are bad. At the beginning of the attack minute doses of morphia may be given, but, as Morton, of Philadelphia, says, “ Intense pain is more often an indication for operation than for morphia.” The application of belladonna or laudanum to the iliac region is useless. If under palliative treatment the inflammation do not subside, but on the other hand the medical attendant find the local pains and tenderness increasing, the skin growing dusky, and the iliac fossa becoming fuller, he must on no account explore for pus by the use of a grooved needle or trochar. Such a blind pro- cedure is far more likely to prove harmful than useful. Pus there may be, but he, failing thus to discover it, must needs then content himself with dangerous delay. The delay is dangerous because pus is probably lurking close against the outside of the peritoneum, through which, unless relief of tension be afforded from the surface, it is likely to make its way. The use of the grooved needle is likely to spread in- fection into healthy tissues. The case is, very much like one of abscess close outside a joint, and it is the surgeon’s duty to explore the inflamed and swollen area in a business- like way. In this operation it is by no means necessary that the abdominal cavity should be opened, and by its per- formance a fatal peritonitis may not improbably be averted. The more localised are the swelling and oedema, the more favourable is the case for operation. Operation.—The child having been placed on a hot-water mattress, and other provisions having been duly made against chilling by cold air and wet towels, chloroform is administered and a final cleansing given to the front of the abdomen. A large irrigator with abundance of hot boracic or saline lotion should be at hand in case it be found that, after all, the