480 FLAT FOOT. disadvantage that it is likely to be followed by hallux valgus and bunion. Flat foot.—All the structures supporting the tarsal arches are relaxed—the muscles and tendons of the leg and foot, and the plantar fascia and ligaments; so the astragalus sinks inwards and the foot is splayed outwards. The feet ache, and the child complains of pains in the legs. It is in vain that the instep of the flat-footed child is surrounded with a strap, or the ankle encumbered by an iron support; such measures are often carried on with serious expense, and abandoned in disappointment. Perhaps the child is altogether out of health, and requiring change of air, and other tonics; or he may be standing too much at school or work, or frequently carrying weights too heavy for him. In the case of the flat-footed girl it may be found that there is a heavy baby or young child that she is constantly carrying; or she may be standing through many hours at her usual work, or walking a long distance to and from it daily, perhaps carrying a heavy parcel. The boots should be ex- amined ; possibly they have high heels and narrow toes ; such heels give no fair support and allow the foot to fall inwards and to receive unequal strain. Flat foot is often associated with obscure pains along the front or back of the leg; I have known them treated for “ rheumatism.” Flat feet may result from infantile paralysis of the posterior tibial muscles, the legs being much wasted along the inner aspect (Fig. 117). Treatment.—The feet must have rest and be fairly shod ; old and badly fitting boots should be discarded. Frictions and shampooings, rubbings and kneadings, are to be me- thodically carried out; the child must be taught to exercise the enfeebled muscles, so as to impart to them renewed strength. He should also be shown how to cause the tibialis anticus and posticus, and the flexors of the toes, to contract until the inner border of the foot can be drawn up at will, and until at last he can, in standing, support his whole weight on the outer side of the foot, with the heel raised. Skipping- rope exercises are good, as they keep the child constantly on his toes, and so strengthen the muscles of the calves and feet. Cycle-riding, with the anterior part of the foot working the pedal, is excellent exercise, for it keeps the Aveight