201 TONSILLITIS. obviously out of sorts. Unless an inspection of the throat be made, the probability is that the malaise may be called “ febricula ” (whatever that is), or it may be ascribed to teeth- ing. In every case of obscure illness the tonsils should be examined as a routine practice. They may be found red and swollen, although no complaints have been made of the throat. The attack may be associated with languor and loss of appetite, with vomiting or even convulsions. The differential diagnosis is from diphtheria (page 31); judgment for a time may be held in suspense. Purgation and tonics may suffice, in the course of a day or two, to establish convalescence. If the tonsils be enlarged, it may be ex- pedient to amputate them ere the child be again similarly attacked, for tonsillitis is a recurrent disease. The fact of their being inflamed is no bar to their being amputated. Acute tonsillitis comes on suddenly, often as the result of exposure to wet or cold, or it may occur in an epidemic form, or in isolated cases, without such exposure. On in- spection, the tonsils are found red and swollen, the child complaining of pains in the neck and pain on swallowing. The temperature runs up several degrees, and the child may have convulsions, shiverings, or even delirium. The thick, pasty mucus which adheres to the tonsils differs from the membrane of diphtheria in that it can be swabbed off; moreover, the redness is not in patches. Still, in some cases the diagnosis from diphtheria cannot be promptly made. The absence of redness of the palate and pharynx, and of the red spots upon the tongue, and the absence of rash upon the surface of the body, may distinguish this catarrhal tonsillitis from the throat of scarlet fever, but in not a few instances such differentiation is for a Avliile im- possible, and the child should certainly be isolated. Treatment.—The child should be kept in bed and fed on slops. The bowels should be cleared by a dose of calomel, grey powder, or rhubarb and soda. Salicylate of soda should be given in small and frequently repeated doses, and the neck should be surrounded by hot, wet compresses. The disease is due to the presence of septic germs, and may be greatly relieved by swabbing with chlorine water. Suspecting sup- puration, the surgeon should make exploratory punctures