208 ADENOID VEGETATIONS. into the pharyngeal dome and wells up through the anterior nares, leaving the lower air-way free and open. Whilst the vegetations are being scraped away with the nail of the left fore-finger, and with a slender Meyer’s ring-knife (Fig. 44), which is passed along the nasal floor, the head is steadied and supported by the assistant. I do not think that this lowered position of the head adds materially to the amount of bleeding. Every patient upon whom I have operated has been under the influence of chloroform. However pluckily a child may screw up his courage to the sticking-point, it is more than apt to give way, if not at the first scrape, at any rate at the feeling of suffocation, or at the sight of the blood, and then the operation would have to be either cruelly or imperfectly done. The child should not be too deeply narcotised. For when the laryngeal reflex is abolished, no effort can be Fig. 44.—Meyer’s Ring-knife for the Removal of Adenoids. made by the child to ward off impending suffocation. In these cases it is far better to give a slightly insufficient amount of chloroform than to have the child “ fully under.” All that is needed is to know that the child is feeling no pain, and yet is sufficiently quiet for the surgeon. To go farther than this with the narcosis is to court danger. As soon as the operation is completed, the child should be placed comfortably on the table, in the semi-prone position, with the head resting on a pillow, and with a soap-dish kept beneath the mouth and nose to catch the blood and saliva which drain down into it. Heed should be given lest, in the hurry to get the child into a favourable position, the head is twisted round independently of the trunk. Neither sponging nor syringing is needed. The bleeding, which during the operation is very free, quickly ceases. As the child becomes sensible, he may be got to clear his nares of blood and his lungs of chloroform by vigorously blowing his nose. In a few days’ time he should be taught to breathe through his nose. Frequently the good effects of the operation are not noticed for some weeks afterwards.