DIPHTHERIA. 20 that the case was not one of diphtheria; but in a few days the father, who was much with the child, contracted diph- theria. Tracheotomy was performed, but he died, notwith- standing. The more that one sees of diphtheria, the more fully does one recognise the difficulty of speaking positively, in the early days at least, as to the exact nature of certain “ sore throats.” In a doubtful case the knee-jerks should be persistently investigated: their absence would be strongly suggestive of diphtheria with its inseparable nerve-degeneration. Further symptoms are cough and feverishness; then increasing trouble with respiration, the voice becoming hoarse. Later the cough becomes loud, ringing, and “brassy.” When once heard it cannot be mistaken. The restlessness and fever increase, the voice grows weaker, and though the poor child’s lips are seen to move, the words cannot be heard. He is extremely anxious, and if he fall into a doze he wakes up with spasmodic dyspnoea ; he grasps his throat, or puts his fingers into his mouth as if to clear away the cause of suffo- cation. When the spasm passes off, the face and body are covered with beads of sweat, and the night-dress and pillow may be wet. Between the attacks the inspiration improves, but the air still enters with a noise which is not unlike that made by a saw working through a board. At first the disease is an entirely local affection. Sometimes, as already remarked, its Avhole course is run without dis- turbance ; manifestly the diagnosis of such a case might for a time be obscure. But a high temperature, the possible exist- ence of albuminuria, and the occurrence of like cases in the same house or neighbourhood, would be highly suggestive. Yet the temperature may be but little elevated, although the disease is raging. The glands in the neck and at the angles of the jaw, however, soon become enlarged and tender, and the connective tissues swollen. The false membrane is a tough and fibrinous exudation in which pus corpuscles and various micro-organisms are entangled, as well as epithelial elements shed from the in- flamed tissue. The film may be so intimately connected with the mucous membrane that after it has been detached the exposed surface is raw or ulcerated. During life a bright