407 MECHANICS OF THE DISEASE. ship to steady the mast, so do these muscles, from the tensor fascia; femoris on the outer side to the adductors on the inner, concur in the fixation of the thigh bone. Probably the most important service in this respect is rendered by the mass of the psoas and iliacus. The synovial membrane being inflamed, a considerable increase of its secretion takes place, so that distension of the fibrous capsule occurs. When fluid is injected with a syringe from the pelvic side into the interior of a freshly dissected hip joint, the first amount causes abduction of the femur, whilst a further injection determines flexion. From this it must be inferred that the greatest capacity of the joint is obtained when the thigh is slightly abducted and flexed. It is to a large extent the effusion into the capsule which, in this stage of the disease, causes fixation of the limb. This also may be demonstrated by injection of the dissected joint, as well as by the • effect of puncturing the capsule in the case of acute effusion (as detailed on page 420), when the position of the limb may be straightway improved. Though in the early days of hip-joint disease, when the fluid is beginning to accumulate, the thigh is slightly abducted, this position passes so quickly into flexion that it is often unnoticed. It is not that the sero-synovial fluid of the inflamed joint forces the limb into these positions; but rather that by the assumption of these positions the intra- articular tension, and therefore the pain, are reduced to a minimum. After flexion has accomplished its utmost in the diminution of the tension, and the anterior muscles are found by the timid patient to be insufficient in shielding the in- flamed area against accidental shocks from Avithout or mus- cular startings from Avithin, comfort is obtained by resting the bad knee over the opposite thigh, or even upon the chest itself, Avhere the child can steady it Avith his hands and chin. He has usually passed through intense and prolonged suffer- ing before the limb takes up this position of extreme flexion, adduction, and inversion. Whatever the stage of the disease, stiffness of the joint and dread of movement are the prominent and characteristic signs.