143 VARIOUS METHODS OF TREATMENT. / on tlie knife, cautery, or electrolysis. And if it be on the face or eyelid—in which case it is more important to leave the smallest amount of scar, rather than to adopt the most prompt method of obliteration—electrolysis may be tried. But if it be upon the trunk, or upon a limb, it may be thoroughly obliterated by the thermo-cautery, or enucleated by the aid of scalpel and forceps, and of these methods, after consider- able experience, I strongly recommend the latter. Small ntevi may be dissected from the face so as to leave but an insignificant scar. Concerning the line of procedure for small neevi, anxious parents may be advised as follows: Except so far as a small naevus causes disfigurement, it is generally harmless, and interference may be indefinitely delayed, perhaps never re- quired; it may fade away; and not a few nsevi, by the pressure or chafing of the clothes, or without external irritation, un- dergo an attack of inflammation which cures them. But seeing how quickly speck-like nosvi may grow into large and unsightly patches, it is advisable to treat every suspicious or threatening spot upon the face or neck before much increase is possible. For this purpose there is nothing better than the fine point of the thermo-cautery at a bright- red heat. The pain is momentary, the destruction of the growth certain, and the ultimate disfigurement slight. A nsevus must be watched, and its size compared from time to time with an outline drawing previously made ; if it be spreading, it must be attacked. If a naevus be pedunculated, it may be ligated by a strong waxed thread. If it involve the whole thickness of the lip, it should be attacked from the dental aspect. Nasvi of the tongue, of the inside of the cheek, or the rectum are best treated by the thermo-cautery. Hairy mole.—A child has recently been under treatment whose left malar and frontal region were deeply pigmented, and thickly covered with black hair. The appearance was as of a mole’s skin, except that the hairs were long and black. There was also a thick growth of hair on that side of the head. With the hairy scalp itself no interference was under- taken, but the disfigurement of cheek and forehead was treated by repeated operations at considerable intervals with the thermo-cautery. With the red-hot blade, fine parallel