367 SYMPTOMS. affection, rather than osteomyelitic, the outer part of the bone should especially have suffered. The irregularity upon the tapering part of the sequestum shows how the necrosed tissue Avas cast adrift by a rarefying inflammation in the surrounding part of the diaphysis. At the time of Avriting, I have a girl under my care, in St. Mary’s Hospital, avIio was admitted Avith a high temperature and Avith a little redness and tenderness over the loAver end of the right tibial diaphysis; cutting down upon the bone, no pus Avas discovered, but, on exploring the interior, the marroAV and the soft bone Avere found soaked Avith pus. Obviously in that case the disease Avas central, for there Avas no pus found until the bone Avas drilled, and so it is in many cases. I think this is the common form of the disease, though doubt- less, in certain cases, the suppuration may begin closer to the periosteum, and appear even to be derived from it. Symptoms.—Probably the first indication of there being anything amiss Avith the child Avill be a complaint of aches and pains near some joint. Very likely this is during conva- lescence from some illness, and perhaps after the receipt of some disregarded injury, or after exposure to cold or to unusual fatigue. The limb SAvells; and if the bone is not too thickly enshrouded in muscle, the skin becomes hot, red, and cedematous. A central and exquisitely tender enlargement Avould then be discoverable, due to sAvelling of the periosteum; the swelling cannot be actually of the bone, for osseous tissue cannot become SAVollen after a feAV days’ inflammation. The pains steadily increase. The boy cannot sleep; his tempera- ture rises to 103° or 104°, or even higher; maybe, if very young, he has a convulsion; if older, he may have shiverings or a genuine rigor. He is evidently extremely ill; and, in all probability, he is delirious at night, because of his brain being- poisoned by the absorption into his blood of the products of decomposition at the septic focus. Suppuration takes place, and very likely some other diaphysis becomes affected, or a pysemic abscess forms in some other part of the bod}^. Pos- sibly septic pneumonia, pleurisy, or pericarditis supervenes, and, quickly or sloAvly, he may sink exhausted and unconscious. “ Multiple necrosis ” is a term sometimes applied to a not uncommon variety of this disease; it merely implies that