470 CLUB FOOT. see that when the foot is being twisted into position the thumb or fingers are not indenting it. Tenotomy.—If after some weeks of the manipulative and plaster-of-Paris treatment there remain considerable inversion of the sole and some drawing up of the imperfectly-developed os calcis, tenotomy must be resorted to. Hitherto it has been much the custom to advise that the inversion of the foot should be dealt with by the division of the tendons of the tibial muscles first, the elevation of the heel being attended to at a subsequent period. The reason of this separation of the treatment into two regular steps was that the heel might be left as a fixed point from which the transverse working of the mechanical shoe might be effected. Then when the fixation of the heel was no longer needed, the tendon of the Achilles was divided and the gradual flexion of the foot proceeded with. With the use of plaster of Paris this practice gives place to the simpler one of dividing the tendon of Achilles to start with and then, with the employment of some force, of bringing the foot at once into position. This large tendon is often the head and front of the offending and, having contracted to the utmost in drawing up the heel, it has obtained a still farther shortening by twisting the os calcis inwards on its antero-posterior axis; its section reduces, if it does not efface, each element of the deformity. Several times it has happened, when speculating as to Avhich tendons Avould require division, to find all in- version disappear on section of the large heel-tendon. For division of the Achilles tendon simply, it is not imperative that an anaesthetic be administered; the tissues implicated are not highly sensitive. But if the child be frightened, or the tendon not perfectly accessible, or if the foot is to be at the same time forcibly wrenched in position, chloroform should be given. The region of the proposed operation having been cleansed, the child should be laid prone ; the nurse steadying the body and arms, Avhilst an assistant takes firm hold of the one leg and prevents the other from interfering Avith the operation. Then the surgeon flexes the foot and seeks out the most slender part of the tendon, Avhich is a little above its insertion.