301 LITHOTKITY. magnificent record in the past, whilst, the high operation has a history which, up to the last feAv years, at any rate, was generally acknowledged to be anything but creditable. And even at the present time, with an improved surgical hygiene and technique, and when adopted by surgeons of undoubted care and skill, it is not, so far as I can form an opinion, doing much towards improving its reputation. Surgeons are, more- over, having recourse to the suprapubic operation in apparent disregard of litholapaxy for boys with small and moderate- sized stones. In one case of lithotomy I found the stone adherent to the mucous membrane. Such a condition is rare, and offers no strong argument against litholapaxy, for the suro;eon assures himself that the lithotrite and stone are free o before he begins to work the screw. Appreciation of operations.—Lithotrity after Bigelow’s method should be adopted for every boy whose bladder is fairly healthy, whose urethra can transmit the lithotrite, and whose calculus is not too large to be seized, nor too hard to be crushed by it. The lithotrite should always have a trial, and even if it take an hour and a half to remove the stone, the time will have been rightly spent. Mr. Freyer has thus successfully removed a stone of 700 grains, or nearly If oz., from a boy of nine years. This operation lasted two hours, and the boy was practically well in a few days. But in every case of lithotrity the instruments should be at hand to finish the removal of the stone, if occasion arise—as with a locking of the instrument—by a cutting operation. For the boy whose urethra refuses to admit the lithotrite. even when the meatus has been incised, but whose stone is not very large, and for the boy whose stone, though not large, proves too hard for the lithotrite, lateral lithotomy is the appropriate treatment. Lastly, for the boy whose stone is as large as a pigeon’s egg, or larger, the high operation should be undertaken. Thus nearly every child with stone, of two years old and upwards, should be treated after Bigelow’s method; infants and a few grown children should be dealt with by lateral lithotomy, and a few large stones must be removed by suprapubic operation; but a resort to this last method should be quite exceptional. I have successfully removed from