FALSE MEMBRANE. 01 —> L inflammatory border surrounds the patch. The natural loosening of the exudation-film is effected by the infiltra- tion of muco-purulent fluid beneath. The exudation may extend down into the smallest bronchi. In certain cases it may be first formed in the trachea, whence it may spread into the larynx or pharynx, or down into the lungs. When a patch is found upon the tonsil, the inflammation may extend deeply through the mucous membrane, and involve the subjacent tissue in moist gangrene, extensive excavations, foul and bleeding, being formed, the breath being very foetid. This condition shows the disease in its most virulent form. The sloughing sometimes causes fatal haemor- rhage, but more often the child dies from the acuteness of the ptomaine-poisoning. An opposite form of the disease is that in which, when the false membrane is detached, the mucous lining beneath it is found merely hypersemic, and with no trace of ulceration. This is known as superficial diphtheria, and though the course taken by it may be short, and attended with but slight constitutional disturbance, it may prove highly contagious. If there be nasal discharge, the disease germs may be widely scattered by a sneeze. It does not follow that because a child has pharyngeal diphtheria the larynx will be involved. But even if the inflam- mation do eventually spread to the glottis, the virulence of the disease may have been so far expended that dyspnoea may not advance to an extreme decree. O There is no line between the pseudo-membranous slough of diphtheria and the fibrinous exudation of laryngitis: one passes gradually into the other. The sloughing corresponds to the more intense, the simpler exudation to the milder, action of the morbific cause. The sloughs may involve the vocal cords, and from thence downwards the deposit may become of a simple membranous nature. Sometimes the virulence is so great that the child sinks of blood-poisoning before membrane has had time to be pro- duced, the throat appearing merely congested or inflamed. Ihe toxic product is the result of the growth of the micro- oiganisms, and its filtered culture has been shown experiment- ally to be highly poisonous. Bright red patches on different