459 WEBBED FINGERS. Let it be first clearly settled, however, that the bursitis is not dependent upon hereditary syphilis (page 439). With regard to the synovial sheaths and extra-articular bursse, it may be briefly remarked that, being of the same nature as the synovial membranes, they are subject to the same diseases; and they may thus be involved in inflamma- tions which may be due to injury, syphilis, or tuberculosis. Club hand is usually a congenital deformity. There are many varieties of it, the hand and fingers being inclined either backwards, forwards, or laterally ; sometimes the position taken is a complication of two varieties. The bones of the forearm or hand may be imperfectly developed or partially or entirely absent, and often the condition is associated with some other bodily defect, such as club foot. If the deformity be slight, it may be corrected by manipulations, frictions, splintings, and apparatus. If more serious, subcutaneous or the open division of fascial bands, tendons, or even of bone, may be required. If the unsightliness be extreme and the member useless, the propriety of amputation may require consideration. In a case of acquired club hand lately under treatment, the hand was strongly adducted, the deformity being due to an injury to the lower epiphysis of the ulna some years previously by a chaff-cutting machine. The normal growth of the radius being unchecked, whilst the ulna remained undeveloped, the radius was strongly curved inwards. The appearance and the usefulness of the hand were eventually improved by the removal of a large wedge-shaped piece from the shaft of the radius. Webbed fingers result from imperfect notching of the distal extremity of the bud which, in the early weeks of foetal life, represents the arm. The defect may be hereditary, and is often associated with imperfect development in other parts of the body, and not infrequently with defective cerebro- spinal evolution. Several digits may be thus fused along their lateral borders. The uniting medium is composed of skin and subcutaneous tissue, with ordinary vascular and nervous supplies. Treatment should be undertaken in early childhood, provided the defect is unassociated with serious physical or