481 FLAT FOOT. off the feet and imparts strength to the muscles. He should be made to walk about on the outer border of the leet. ibis exercise should be done morning, noon and night; after a short time, when improvement becomes evident, the boy will take interest and pleasure in it. When these gymnastic exereises are earnestly and patiently carried out and are supplemented with daily massage of the muscles, improve- ment is sure to follow, provided that the giving way of the arch is not due to infantile paralysis. The boots should be after Thomas’s pattern, with the heel and sole raised all along the inner side, as shown in Fie. 118. The inner border of the heel and sole are made to form a continuous surface. This desien is much more efficacious than that of raising the instep by a pad of leather or cork, or a steel spring, placed inside the boot; the weight of the bodjr should not be received through the weak inner border of the foot, but along the solid outer border, by arranging the heel and sole along the inner side, after the manner of the thick part of a wedge. A bootmaker who has a little common-sense, and will do exactly what he is told, can thus, in the course of an hour, convert a pair of boots or shoes into the most efficacious “ supports ”; unfortunately, however, the bootmaker usually believes that he knows a more excellent Avay. A groAvn boy may object at first to the appearance of the wedge-soled boots or shoes (for shoes do as well), but he soon finds great comfort from them and gets to like them. As he improves, the low heel-end of the Avedge may be separated from the sole part; but still, for a long Avhile, the inner side of the heel should be carried Avell forward under the instep, so that the effect of the Avedge may continue. Seeing Iioav, Avith careful supervision and attention, children groAv out of their flat-footedness, the propriety of performing any cutting operation on bones or tendons need rarely be contemplated. The forcible manipulation of the foot under an anaesthetic is hardly likely to be required, nor is the more serious operation practised Avith success in the Fig. 11S.—Heel of right boot for Flat Foot.