302 LITE OLAPA X Y. an undersized boy of thirteen years a stone of 2| oz. by lateral lithotomy. Lithotrity in boys.—To Brigade-Surgeon Keegan our thanks are due for demonstrating, in opposition to old prejudices, the fact that Bigelow’s operation of crushing and promptly removing all fragments of a vesical calculus—litho- lapaxy—is as well suited for boys as for men. We had been taught that even if the boy’s urethra were capacious enough to allow of the passage of a trustworthy lithotrite, his bladder could not tolerate the interference necessary for pulverising the stone. We now know that this is quite incorrect. Keegan has published a table of 214 litholapaxies performed on patients varying in age from below two years to fourteen years, with a mortality of seven, or a death-rate of 3-27 per cent. These 214 litholapaxies include seven successful operations performed on young girls. The average number of days spent in hospital subsequent to the operation was under seven. The opinion in England had been that only soft or small stones could be thus dealt with, but Keegan has shown that oxalates of fair size, and urates of 600 grs., may be crushed and removed from the bladder at a single operation. The instruments used were Nos. 6 to 10 of the English gauge— that is, taking the smallest, No. 6, in the angle, and 5 in the stem. Freyer, too, has successfully crushed and removed “a very hard stone” of 700 grs. from a boy of nine years by a fenestrated No. 8 lithotrite, the operation lasting two hours. The boy was well in a few days. The evacuating tubes fitted to the wash-bottle are of the same calibre as the angle of the lithotrite. The evacuating catheters should be short, and should invariably be fitted with stylets for dislodg- ing fragments which happen to get impacted. Sometimes it is necessary to incise the meatus urinarius (downwards) before the instrument can be introduced. For these operations only the best make of instrument should be used. It would be a terrible predicament, the bending and locking of a “ cheap ” lithotrite in a boy s bladder! In using, as I have done, Weiss’s instruments, the surgeon proceeds with confidence and safety, the operation proving, Avith but feAV exceptions, simple and successful.