CLEFT PALATE. 234 upwards towards. the third cerebral ventricle, by a duct known as the cranio-pharyngeal canal, where it apparently ends in the anterior part of the pituitary body. When there is difficulty in detaching the muco-periosteum from behind the incisor teeth, a very small angular knife and a well-curved raspatory are of great service; and whilst the friable edges are being stitched together, the double hook may be conveniently used in- jjanmi stead of the forceps (Fig. 58). Fig. 58.—The Double Hook. Sometimes the success of the operation is partial ; a common site for the failure of union being at the junction of the hard and soft palate, but this generally fills up by granu- lation. One girl was operated on four times, with only a partial success on each occasion; but her wide palatine cleft was ultimately closed by chiselling through the palatine arch and by working the pieces in towards the middle line. This operation of cutting the bone should be resorted to only in those cases in which the coverings are unusually thin or their edges far asunder. Flaps of bone and membrane may be steadied together by passing a large wire suture around them by means of an aneurysm needle. I am strongly opposed to the plan of operating on the cleft of the soft and of the hard palate on separate occasions, for, as a rule, one operation suffices for them both. After-treatment.—Night and day for a time the child must he watched, or his hands tied, lest he get his fingers or toys into his mouth. If his arms be run through a stifit tubular splint, so as to prevent his getting up his hands, he will not need such constant supervision ; hut he must be thoroughly amused when awake, in order to keep him from crying or screaming. On no account must he he allowed to talk; every wish, so far as is possible, must be anticipated. II old enough, he can make his Avants known on a slate. Toys and picture-books Avhile aAvay the time, and if the child he good, and the weather fine, he need not be kept in bed or indoors for more than a day. It is, I am sure, advisable to get him into the fresh air as early as possible. The less he is disturbed the better. It is inadvisable to frighten him hy giving him food through the nares by a solt tube. If he continues to