255 DISEASE OF 0COIPITO-A TLOID JOINT. from pain, quite Avell, and strong. She was then ordered a stiff canvas jacket strengthened with strips of whalebone. I have recorded this case that I may say that such a result is never to be expected—scarcely hoped for. The parents should be made aware of the fact of the formation of an abscess (the surgeon being constantly on the look out for it), in order that they may the more fully appreciate the gravity of the case and the need for the thorough rest in the horizontal position. Abscess forms, as a rule, very slowly, the sensory nerves in the neighbourhood gradually accommo- dating themselves to the altering pressure. There is, there- fore, nothing to suggest that pus is collecting in the fossa, except the deep-seated fulness, and for obvious reasons it is better that the surgeon first notice this rather than the mother, the nurse, or the child. He should always be on the look out for it. • Disease of the occipito-atloid joint.—-One or both of the condylar joints, and the neighbouring bone, may be inflamed:— An anxious-looking boy of four years had constant pain about the top of the neck and lower part of the head—he had met with no particular injury. He soon got tired, and was glad to lie down by his mother. He could not nod his head, and he dreaded the least pressure upon the vertex. He sat with his head in his hands, and on being asked where “it hurt,” pointed behind the right mastoid pro- cess. The head was slanted towards the right side, and he was disinclined to move it. Pres- . sure on the vertex caused great pain on that side. In disease of the atlas the pain is usually confined to one side, because the inflammation (at first, at any rate) is limited to one lateral mass. His disease had begun as a tuberculous synovitis between the occiput and atlas, from which he eventually recovered. Fig. 62 shows recovery Avith synostosis after disease of Fig. 62.—Synostosis of Atlas and Oc- ciput, the result of sub-occipital disease. (Museum of St. Mary's Hospital.)