237 FOREIGN BODY IN WIND-PIPE. case of the glottis becoming blocked during these examina- tions, tracheotomy would be demanded, so that the instruments must be all ready. If the rough shakings do not avail anything, the child must not be allowed to remain in danger of a fatal attack of dyspnoea. Tracheotomy or laryngo-tracheotomy (see p. 41) must therefore be performed as a precautionary measure. After the operation the larynx may be probed from below, the tube (if one have been temporarily introduced) being removed for the purpose; or a wire and bristle pipe-stem cleaner, or a large feather, may be passed up between the vocal cords under the pilotage of a filiform catheter. If necessary, the inversion and shakings are again to be gone through, the larynx being also explored from below. If the conviction be strong that the foreign substance remains in the larynx, the incision must be continued in the median line through the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, the alee of the thyroid being held asunder, and the interior ex- amined. The fact of the tracheotomy greatly relieving the dyspnoea is presumptive evidence of the body being still lodged in the larynx. (See p. 53.) If a foreign body be loose in the trachea or bronchus it will probably be driven up to the glottis from time to time, with expiration, causing spasmodic respiration and coughing. The child may be sensible of the body moving in the tra- chea; and with the stethoscope its movements may be detected by the surgeon. A metallic body might be demon- strated by the X rays. The voice will not be altered, as would be the case if the body were impacted in the larynx. If the bronchus or one of its divisions be plugged, the cor- responding lung-tissue becomes collapsed or cedematous; at any rate, the stethoscope placed over it may convey no mur- mur of the tidal air ; or the air may pass the obstruction with a peculiar whistle. When a child is suspected of having swallowed a foreign body, and an area of the lung is found tideless, there is little room for doubt—even though tempera- ture be normal and there be no other sign of disturbance. If the bronchus were plugged during inspiration, the lung-tissue which is implicated would be full of air (at any rate, for a time), but it would give no breath-sounds; afterwards pul-