168 SPASTIC PARALYSIS. laryngismus stridulus, and tetany. The child with tetany usually suffers from diarrhoea, which is a strong suggestion of there being something in the alimentary canal which is of an irritative, toxic nature, and had best be got rid of. I entirely accept the suggestion of Oddo, that tetany is, like rickets, a disease of malnutrition. The hands and feet alone may be affected. The first joints of the thumb and fingers being flexed, the other joints being extended; in the slightest form of the disease the thumb alone is affected. The rigidity persists during sleep. The brain itself is not implicated. The child does not lose conscious- ness. Both hands or both feet are involved at the same time; there is no elevation of temperature. The feet being affected, the ankles are extended, the sole is arched, and the toes are curled up. This is highly sug- gestive of the presence in the blood of an irritant poison. Laryngismus stridulus (page 36) is a constant symptom of tetany, as is also irritability of the facial nerve; passing the finger over the nerve trunk sufficing to cause contraction of the sphincters of lips or eyelids. Any severe disturbance, such as that arising from wet or cold, or the irritation set up by improper food, may cause the carpo-pedal contractions in an unhealthy infant. Treatment.—Attention must be paid to diet; the rickets must be treated (page 70);* diarrhoea must be checked (perhaps by rhubarb and soda or castor oil), and tonics of oil and iron must be prescribed in due course. Bromide of potassium or chloral may be needed. Fresh air and warm clothing are of the utmost value. Spastic paralysis, or tetanoid paraplegia, is the result of sclerosis of, or pressure upon, the antero-lateral columns of the cord; thus it is not infrequently met with in caries of the spine (page 266). Sometimes it is secondary to injury to the motor area during the passage of the head through a narrow pelvis, or to injury by the blade of forceps used to help delivery. There' is no loss of sensation, for the sensory part of the cord remains sound. All the reflexes are exaggerated, for though the reflex loop is entire, the cerebral control is no longer able to descend through the diseased motor track of the cord. The reflexes may be so greatly in excess that, on