31 GENERAL ADVICE. interfered with. If he cannot swallow without food passing into the larynx, he will abstain from swallowing; then it will be necessary to feed him by a very soft catheter introduced through the nares (page 50). Inunctions of cod-liver oil, and the administration of nutrient enemata, are also of service. General advice.—If there be grave suspicion as to the nature of a sore throat, the child should be at once isolated, and, if possible, a trained nurse should take charge of the case; all other children should, if practicable, be taken out of the house ; or, better still, the child should be sent into one of the Local Government Board Hospitals, or into some such institution. The mother must understand that resigning her child to a nurse is all to his advantage, and should be considered as a mark not only of common sense but also of affection. It is difficult, however, to get parents to take this practical view of the matter, and sometimes they will not be persuaded that the child is really suffering from diphtheria. If there be doubt as regards the nature of an inflam- mation or patch about the fauces, let the benefit of that doubt be accorded to hygiene. A feAV days’ quarantine is a simple matter, and it may be the means of obviating great distress. It is sometimes impossible for the most experienced practitioner to say what is the exact nature of the sore throat without watching it and the child for a day or two. He should not be offhand in expressing his opinion in a doubtful case, nor should he make light of it. He should be very careful; for a mistake on his part may involve the entire household in distress and himself in discomfiture. Insti- tutions have recently been established in which, in the case of a doubtful sore throat, specimens of membrane or mucus, sent thither for the purpose, can be promptly submitted to bacteriological and microscopic investigation. Thus, within twenty-four hours, the practitioner can be informed whether the specimen contained the Ivlebs-Loeffier bacillus or not. From a case of mine, however, in which competent investi- gators could detect no diphtheria-bacilli in some suspicious nasal discharge, diphtheritic infection was unfortunately spread. Too much reliance, therefore, must not be based upon a “ negative ” report. In the case of diphtheritic