106 ENLARGEMENT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. causes of trouble are chilblains, ingrowing toe-nail, the chafing ot the heel by a badly fitting boot, a scratch, a braise on the knee, and scabies. Possibly the bruise or abrasion which started the enlargement may have healed some time since. With the on-coming of the fresh trouble in the groin, the initial lesion is likely to be forgotten. The pink scar of a sore which has healed may sometimes be found. If the enlargement be along the line of Poupart’s ligament, careful inspection must be made of the buttock, perinseum, scrotum, and penis, the prepuce being thoroughly retracted. If rest in bed, and attendance to the sore do not cause the enlargement to sub- side, the gland had better be dissected out without further delay. Enlarged glands may, with the greatest advantage, be removed from the depths of the iliac fossa, or even from behind the peritoneum. From one tuberculous child I re- moved a long cluster from the front of the lumbar vertebrae, and, though I was unable to clear them all away, rapid and permanent recovery Avas secured thereby, the others probably undergoing spontaneous absorption. A popliteal gland may be the seat of enlargement, and of abscess, either on account, or independently of a sore upon the outer side of the foot, the heel, or the calf. Such abscess should be opened, as a rule, through the interval between the ilio- tibial band and the tendon of the biceps. The evacuation of the abscess is often folloAved by an intractable sinus, Avhich may need scraping. The knee must be kept straight, and in perfect rest. Leeches, lotions, and counter-irritants are of no value, and they may do harm by exciting the circulation, and deter- mining Avreckage. Poultices are Avorse than useless. Tincture of iodine, painted over the skin, is occasionally applied, more for the sake of “ doing something ” than for any real belief in the therapeutic efficacy of the measure. Probably it is partly through the influence of the iodine in the air that a stay at the sea-side gives help. Bryant iodises the air of the sitting- and bed-room of the patient by putting on a shelf some solid iodine in a perforated box. In my experience, valuable time is often Avasted in sending the child to the sea-side as a forlorn hope. Far better is it to