300 CALCULUS IN URETER. the beak should be short, so that it can make a thorough search. If there is any resistance on the part of the child, chloroform should, of course, be administered. Indeed, in the general run of cases this is quite necessary. Injection of warm water is not necessary; but lest the stone be hidden behind a mucous fold, and so escape detection, the surgeon should turn the child on the side, and have the pelvis raised. The exploration may be com- pleted by passing the linger into the rectum. The theory of a calculus escaping detection (or, later, removal) from its being lodged in a sacculus in the bladder-wall is rarely acceptable ; the bladder of the child is not sacculated. As in a case of Mr. Pitts, rectal examination may reveal a stone impacted at the end of the ureter. Rectal and bi- manual examination should always supplement exploration Avith the sound. Calculus in the ureter may determine symptoms of stone in the bladder, yet sounding may give a negative result. Blank sounding should always be supplemented by help of the finger in the rectum. If the stone be small, and lodged at the orifice of the ureter, it may evade detection on many soundings; but at last it will escape into the bladder and be struck. The surgeon should not rest con- tented with one sounding, but while symptoms persist he should examine the bladder from time to time. A stone lying in the orifice of the ureter might be struck by certain turns of the sound, and then, on lithotomy being performed, it might not be discoverable. It might be detected by rectal examination. Later, it might escape and be found in the bed. When impacted within the orifice of the ureter, it may be best attacked and removed by the suprapubic operation (page 306). Lithotomy and lithotrity.—A few years ago every boy with stone was submitted to lateral lithotomy. At the present day, with an almost similar want of discrimination, many are being operated on by the suprapubic method. A e are not yet in a position duly to appreciate the value of the latter operation; but figures would probably show that in general application its results are far less satisfactory than those of the lateral operation. Oheselden’s operation has a