CLUB FOOT. 472 subcutaneously, the foot being then fixed in lateral gypsum splints in an over-corrected position. But if the deformity is severe, or if it has relapsed, it may be found that the undivided skin offers an effectual impedi- ment to the correction. In such a case the open operation of A. M. Phelps, of New York* may be resorted to. Subcu- taneous tenotomy in the treatment of severe and of re- lapsed cases is rapidly making way for this more thorough method of treatment, and the old operation of tenotomy of r the tibial tendon above the ankle is now practically discarded. The open operation.—The child being in good health, and the foot being thoroughly cleansed, the tendon of Achilles is divided and, by vigorous manipulation, the heel is brought down to the utmost. A vertical incision is then made with a small scalpel from dorsum to sole' between the tip of the internal malleolus and the tuberosity of the scaphoid. This passes over the head of the astragalus and, dividing the anterior part of the internal ligament, opens up the astragalo- scaphoid joint. In the lower part of the Avound the plantar fascia, abductor hallucis, and tibialis posticus are cut. Then more force is applied and probably the tendon of flexor longus digitorum is found aAvaiting division. By the help of more forcible manipulation, the foot becomes farther straightened out and the scaphoid must needs be pulled for- wards from the astragalus, the astragalo-scaphoid joint being left wide open. Placing the end of the finger in this joint, the surgeon may distinctly feel the fibres of the inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament maintaining some deformity. When these have been divided, some of the inner fibres of the calcaneo- cuboid ligaments may be found to want a touch of the scalpel. In short, every structure which prevents the full and un- obstructed straightening of the foot and, indeed, an over- correction, must be cut. When the bleeding has been controlled—and it is usually quite insignificant—the wound and the foot are Avashed over with a warm mercuric solution (1 in 5,000), the yaAvning incision is gently stuffed, the foot is enveloped with sterilised gauze, and the foot and ankle and the loAver part of the leg are enclosed in a flannel bandage. Tavo lateral splints * See Trans. Med. Chirurg. Soc., 1893.