333 OP EE A'!'ION. If during the operation the swollen appendix come into view, but be found ulcerated at its very base or closely adherent to the surrounding tissues, it is best to follow Treves’s advice and leave it untouched in the depths of the abscess ; nature is there better able to deal with it than art. If, in making the limited incision in the iliac region, it be found that the abscess has already burst its barrier and set up general septic peritonitis, it will be well to open the abdomen in the middle line, to flush and cleanse with abundant hot saline lotion, to wipe out the pelvic and other recesses with soft sponges, and to drain. When should one make the incision over the inflamed appendix ?—This is often a very difficult question to answer. If too early, as Delore says, there may be no pus, and the in- troduction of a drain may be of no use; if too late, the chances of fatal septicaemia are overwhelming. But, says he, it is better to be too early than too late. He ends with the old adage, “ Le mouvement, c’est la vie ; le repos, c’est la mort.’'’ This is somewhat theatrical, but it shows in what direction we shall probably have to look for the answer. And it is well to remember that the mere act of cuttino’ down on to the O inflamed tissues may give immediate relief, although no pus be found. Mayo Robson is of opinion that when the inflammation comes on acutely with a rapid pulse, and with tenderness over the appendix, but without the presence of a tumour, the case should be looked on as one demanding immediate operation; while a more gradual onset, with a quiet pulse (not over 100), and the early formation of a tumour, are signs that delay might be safe. But, in the course of inflammation of the appendix, whatever its apparent character, the occurrence of a rigor with rise of pulse and temperature should be looked on as indicating septic absorption, and as pointing to the necessity for operation. The pulse rather than the temperature is the guide to treatment. Relief or cessation of pain, with a marked rise in the pulse-rate, is an indication for immediate operation, as it frequently means gangrene of the appendix; while distension of the abdomen, with vomiting and rapid pulse, are signs that admit of no delay, as they indicate extending or general peritonitis. The effect