197 MACROGLOSSIA. for years. In early childhood the jaws are soft and pliable, and if the thumb be constantly pressed at the back of the intermaxillary bone, and, what is more, forcibly thrust against it in long-continued and energetic sucking, the alveolar process and the incisor teeth will be driven for- wards, the palatine arch rendered high and narrow, and the inferior maxilla repressed. Equally harmful is use of the so-called “ comforter,” which so many infants are allowed constantly to suck—a large india-rubber teat with a bone flange to prevent its being swallowed. I condemn it alto- gether. It is a septic thing, and I have known it cause ulceration of the gum. Painting the thumb with aloes or other nauseous drugs, and even tying up the hands in thick gloves, may fail to prevent the child from putting the thumb into the mouth; but a straight tubular arm-splint, applied around the elbow, will afford an effectual mechanical hindrance. Hypertrophy of the tongue; macroglossia, is a congenital and rare disease, the result, not of muscular hypertrophy, but of dilatation of the lymph-spaces of the mucous mem- brane. The tongue is too large for the mouth, and hangs out between the lips or over the chin, causing irregular growth of the teeth and of the lower jaw (Fig. 41). The mouth being thus kept open, saliva constantly trickles down, though the tongue itself is dried by the exposure. Where its sur- face comes in contact with the teeth, ulceration occurs. Macroglossia is often found in the cretin, and may be associated with hypertrophy of the connective tissue lymph- spaces in other parts of the bod}^, especially the root of the neck, as referred to in connection with “ sporadic cretinism ” (p. 172). Barker, in an excellent account of macroglossia, gives numerous references. Out of one hundred and thirteen cases the enlargement Avas congenital in at least sixty. The tongue, being large, is constantly in the Avay of the teeth ; the hypertrophy might first be detected on the tongue being bitten ; its enlargement might then be ascribed to injury. Treatment.—If the tongue be so large as to protrude permanently from between the lips, compression by adhesive rubber plaster may be tried. If more heroic measures be required, a V-shaped piece might be remoA^ed from its