ACUTE SEPTIC DIAPEY8ITIS. 370 themselves establish the expediency of amputation; grave as these symptoms are, they are usually associated in every severe case. Nor, among the local signs, are great swelling of and tenderness in the part, extensive subperiosteal abscess, and detachment of an epiphysis to be taken as affording that indication, for they co-exist in many a case in which a useful limb is eventually secured. Nor does the conjunction of these tAvo groups of general and local signs necessarily demand amputation. But when the child is evidently sinking from blood-poisoning and exhaustion—when there is practically no hope of his surviving unless the septic focus be promptly and absolutely cleared away—the limb must be sacrificed. Usually after amputation the patient makes a rapid recovery, though sometimes his convalescence is retarded by the occurrence of secondary pysemic abscesses. In the case of the disease extending into and causing acute suppuration of the neighbouring joint, it is generally expedient to amputate. But even in these circumstances free incisions, irrigations and drainage, or resection, may sometimes be successfully resorted to. In the later stages, when the disease has been allowed to drift on until the end of a bare diaphysis is making its way through a mass of granulation-tissue, and the boy is worn out by long-continued suppuration, there is no alternative treat- ment to amputation. In such a case the periosteum is likely to be Avholly replaced by granulation-tissue, so that even if a large sequestrum Avere lifted out, there would be little likeli- hood of a neAV diaphysis being formed. Thus, temporising Avould lead to disappointment, and an inevitable amputation Avould be unfortunately postponed. For the regeneration of a diaphysis, or of part of one, early resection of the infected bone is necessary. If after the primary focus has been dealt Avith the tem- perature do not come doAvn, probably one of tAvo things is happening—-either the treatment has not been sufficiently heroic, so that local absorption of toxins is still taking place, or else an osteomyelitis is about to manifest itself in some' other bone. Every diaphysis, therefore, that can be reached should be carefully examined, and, if one be found tender, it should at once be cut down upon and efficiently explored.