133 GYS TIC L YMill ANGIOMA. indefinite border and an obscure sense of fluctuation; tliey are painless, and are covered by apparently healthy skin, which shows a characteristic dimpling or puckering on being gently pinched up between the finger and thumb. But in the case of a fatty tumour the dimpling skin can always be raised in places and isolated from the surface of the subjacent mass, whereas with a cystic lymphangioma it cannot be so raised, for the simple reason that the dilated lymph spaces of the tumour spread into and blend with dilatations in the skin itself. Moreover, the surgeon can, un- less the cysts are very tense, feel subjacent structures—such as the ribs—through a lymphangioma; he could not do this in the case of a lipoma. The diagnosis from nsevi is sometimes difficult. In each case the tumour consists of dilated vas- cular spaces filled with fluid, and when deeply placed the exact nature can be revealed only by puncture or incision. But I have met with cases in which dilated lymph spaces were mingled with cavernous blood-vessels, and others in which the contents of lymphatic cysts were stained by leakage from the neigh- bouring blood-vessels. The nsevoid mass may generally be made smaller by steady pressure, and the integument over it usually shows some dilated blood-vessels. (Big. 24.) Treatment.—Like a nsevus, a cystic lymphangioma may cease to get larger, or it may even quietly disappear without apparent cause. Cysts may be tapped one after another at intervals; in the meanwhile, the skin shrinks over the diminished mass, and the other cysts can be reached with exactitude. This simple and harmless method of treatment Fig. 24.—Lymphangioma asso- ciated with Nsevoid Discolora- tion of the Surface. should be patiently and systematically carried out in practi- cally every case; it greatly helps towards permanent efl'acc- inent of the mass. I see no reason for limiting either the number of times that puncture should be performed or the period of months or years through which it may be employed.