CIRCUMCISION. 283 which, indeed, it may be associated. It may be the result of an injury. The sooner that circumcision is done, the better. The surgeon should not wait until discharge has been diminished by the use of lotions, for the presence of the tight prepuce is keeping up the trouble. Circumcision is a small matter in infancy, but its im- portance increases with youth and manhood, and especially when it is performed for paraphimosis, balanitis, or verruca;. Frequently I have heard a grown patient, whose case called for the operation, say with reproach that it ought to have been done in his infancy. It may be often undertaken with advantage even earlier than “ the eighth day.” Before operating, the surgeon should satisfy himself that the subject is in a good state of health, otherwise extensive inflammation and sloughing may supervene. All instruments used during the operation should be absolutely clean, and the surroundings of the patient should be in a satisfactory hygienic condition. I have known two children in one family die of blood-poisoning after circumcision; it was then discovered that the soil-pipe was leaking into the wall of their bedroom. From lack of cleanliness in the instruments, syphilis has been inoculated in the performance of the rite, an indurated sore appearing in due course in the prepuce. And from causes which might, or might not, have been eliminated, erysipelas, tuberculosis, buboes, and pyaemia have followed the operation. Some surgeons advise that the operation be done under the influence of cocaine : for the adult this answers well, but for children it is far better to give chloroform. Children are frightened by the restraint, by the sight of an instrument, or of a little blood, and before the operation is well begun they may be struggling to be free. Moreover, I deem cocaine to be unfit for injection in children. The following is an excellent and bloodless way of operat- ing. The child, under the influence of an anaesthetic, and lying upon a pillow with a thick towel folded beneath the pelvis, should be placed in a good light, upon a dressing-table or a low chest of drawers. Having squeezed the blood out of the organ by gentle compression between the fingers, a small elastic ring, doubled if necessary, and tight enough to control the circulation, is looped round the root of the penis, and so