RARE-LIP. 222 success. Hare-lip is often associated with cleft palate, and the median piece of the lip may, with the intermaxillary bone, be attached to the projecting nasal septum (Figs. 49, 50). When the child cannot suck, the mother’s milk should be drawn by a breast-pump, and administered in a warm spoon. But if this cannot be done, fresh cow’s milk and water (page 11) must be substituted. For feeding, the infant should be held upright, so that the fluid may run easily into the pharynx, the slipper-bottle being provided with a very large indiarubber teat with a hole below the end, through which the milk may be drawn or poured. Or the milk may be gently injected into the pharynx by a glass syringe, with a piece of soft rubber tubing on the nozzle. The age for operating on hare-lip.—The child should be in the best state of health, and in the most favourable sur- roundings. If the cleft be slight, and do not materially inter- fere with sucking, the operation may be conveniently deferred until the child is weaned. When more extensive, though un- associated with defective palate, the child will take the breast on the rift being closed ; in such cases the operation may be undertaken within a few days of birth. At any rate, for the sake both of mother and child, the defect should be remedied within the first few weeks, if the general condition appear satisfactory. If, however, a defective palate coexist, the opera- tion may be deferred for weeks or months, as the power of sucking could not be improved by any operation upon the lip only; and strength may be gained by the delay. Before operating, the surgeon must assure himself that the child is in fair health. Because of the labial fissure, the infant was unable to take the breast; his earliest days were, therefore, passed, if not in absolute want, at least in a state which is far removed from hygienic perfection. Many such children perish in the early weeks of their existence, and chiefly because they cannot be properly fed. Operation for hare-lip.—The upper part of the infant’s body should be surrounded with a towel, so that the arms may be secured. In private houses a low chest of drawers forms an excellent operating-table, which should be brought up to the window.