217 POST-A URIC ULAR ABSCESS. often, after severe and long-standing otorrhoea, the sense is but little affected, whilst in other cases, or after a short attack, total deafness results. This is particularly likely to follow the loss of the ossicles, though if the stapes remain to block up the opening into the vestibule, hearing may be but little affected. The loss of the malleus and incus alone may not entail serious result. Then, as regards life—on account of the close proximity of the tympanum to the cranial cavity, there is a grave chance of inflammation extending through the thin osseous plate which separates the middle ear from the dura mater, and of meningitis and encephalitis ensuing. Inflam- mation extending to the neighbouring lateral sinus determines there a septic thrombosis, and the clotting may extend from the sinus down the internal jugular vein, and even to the heart. The diseased area may be a centre from which purulent absorption may take place, death resulting from pyaemia, after the occurrence of convulsions and rigors. In the case of an infant who was recently admitted into hospital for suppu- rative arthritis of each elbow-joint, post-mortem examination showed that the pysemic infection which caused death was secondary to a chronic inflammation of the middle ear, Avitli suppurative disease of the temporal bone. Pyremia and meta- static abscesses are a somewhat common result of otorrhoea. Sometimes death occurs rapidly from suppurative otitis; at others the child groAvs sloAvly Aveaker, and sinks from exhaustion. Post-auricular abscess. — Inflammation may extend back- Avards from the tympanum in the masto-petrous bone, and, partially destroying that tissue, show itself as a sub-periosteal mastoid abscess. A softisli tumour covered Avitli dusky skin then appears: it raises the pinna, and thrusts it fonvard. There may be much pain, headache, and constitutional dis- turbance. \ Treatment.—The swelling should be incised forthAvith, even if fluctuation be not evidenced, and provision should be made for drainage. If the mastoid region appear carious, the bone should be scraped Avith a sharp spoon, or gouged aAvay until the mastoid antrum is opened up. The small cavity should then be Avashed clean, and the antiseptic lotion in-