131 CYSTIC IYMPIIANGIOMA. are usually found in the neighbourhood of the face, neck, and arm-pit, they may also occur upon the trunk, or even upon the extremities. In 1882, I showed a child before a meeting of the Medical Society of London, with the remains of a hygroma upon the arm; the tumour had been for three years under observation. I had been content to watch it Avithout offering to interfere, and the tumour dwindled into a diffuse mass, which resembled a lipoma, the fluid part having undergone spontaneous absorption. I have also seen these growths undergoing spontaneous cure upon the thigh, and upon the back. And I have recently seen a child with a hygroma of the size of the long half of a hen’s egg upon the inner side of the the arm. The lump had attracted attention at birth, being then of the size of a large walnut. In the case Avliich is illustrated (Fig. 22) the lymphangioma Avhich had been noticed at birth had begun to grow six months later. It ex- tended across the front of the neck, reached upwards behind the pinna, and invaded the lobule. This last Avas a very important clinical feature ; there is no other form of cervical groAvth Avhich trespasses upon the pinna Avithout causing a discoloration of the surface, as a naevus Avould do, or Avithout producing local and general signs of malignancy, as Avould a sarcoma. Hygroma is altogether different from another variety of “ hydrocele of the neck,” in Avhich one of the branchial clefts fails to be obliterated in its deeper part, and, being closed in externally, gradually becomes distended Avitli de- generate epithelium and Avitli the secretion of the included epiblast. A dermoid-cyst-hydrocele resembles a hygroma in that it probably first sIioavs itself in early childhood, that it bulges upon the surface, and extends deeply amongst the tissues of the neck, even to the pharynx or oesophagus, that it has a feel of fluctuation, and that it is painless. But it differs from a hygroma in that it has a definite and Fig. 22.—Cystic Lymphangi- oma invading Pinna.