99 GUMMATA. The teeth of the permanent set may exhibit characteristic notches, especially the central incisors of the upper jaw; this pair Hutchinson calls the “test teeth” for hereditary syphilis (Fig. 16). They often “slant towards each other, are discoloured from defect of enamel, and each shows in its edge a broad notch.” These, and the neighbouring teeth, may be dwarfed and unsymmetrical, with their corners rounded off. Sometimes the margin is occupied by small wart-like spines of dentine, which quickly wear away with use, leaving the notch conspicuous. The lower teeth may be peg-like, or studded with excrescences. Sometimes only a lateral incisor or a canine tooth is marked. These signs may be associated with keratitis. The imperfect and char- acteristic development of the teeth is due to stomatitis within a few months of birth; but as at that time the milk- teeth are already calcified, they cannot possibly possess characteristic markings. The milk-teeth are cut at the usual periods, but they are often shed early. “ Bad ” teeth are not evidence of syphilis, and even the permanent teeth of a child with undoubted hereditary syphilis need not bear evidence of the taint; the co-exist- ence of notched central incisors and interstitial keratitis affords unmistakable evidence of hereditary syphilis. Mercurial teeth.—If during the development of the teeth the child be brought so fully under the influence of mercury that stomatitis occurs, the enamel may be found “ defective, pitted, and discoloured.” This applies, of course, to the per- manent set only, for, as already remarked, the milk-teeth were formed long before the stomatitis occurred. Gummata are met with in the later months or years of the disease. They may be situated within and beneath the skin or mucous membranes, or may be in connection with periosteum, bone, or lymphatic gland. They may grow quietly, like a chronic abscess, and, being opened in error, or undergoing spontaneous evacuation, their situation is in- dicated by a deep excavation or dense cicatrix. I have met with such a gumma in the thigh of a girl, five years of age, who had at the same time a gummatous ulceration extendin'! Fig. 16.—Syphilitic Cen- tral Incisor Teeth of Upper Jaw. (The “test-teeth” notched.)