HIP-JOINT DISEASE. 412 If, when the thigh has been partially flexed, rotation is permitted, the stiffness may be due to spinal or iliac abscess rendering the sheath of the psoas or iliacus full and tense (page 253); to inflammation of the bursa between the psoas tendon and the capsule of the joint; to perityphlitis (page 329); to gluteal or other extra-articular abscess; to inflammation of the upper end ol the femur (page 432) to congenital displacement of the femur (page 401), or to infantile paralysis (page 164). (For sacro-iliac disease, see page 433.) In other words, fixation of the femur against intra- articular disturbance characterises disease of the hip joint. If, when the subject of diseased hip is lying on his back, a gentle attempt be made to abduct and rotate the thigh out- wards, the pelvis and the whole body will foldeiropi)ell”1 from follow the guiding movements rather than normal level. allow a disturbance between the femur and the acetabulum. Supplemental signs of hip-disease may be fulness beneath the middle of Foupart’s ligament, due to intra-articular effusion; a flattening and widening of the buttock, together with a drop- ping of the gluteal fold (Fig. 104), and a loss of symmetry where the line of the gluteal fold meets the median line of the body. The widening of the buttock is due to the slight thrusting out of the head of the femur from the depths of the acetabulum by the intra-articular effusion. The flattening is due partly to the widening of the buttock, but chiefly to atrophy of the gluteal muscles. The alteration in the gluteal fold is partly due also to the slight flexion of the thigh. The fulness beneath Poupart’s ligament may be partly due to secondaiy effusion into the subpsoas bursa, but there is often a good deal of inflammatory thickening in the various tissues sur- rounding the capsule. Sometimes this material breaks down into a puriform fluid, though the joint itself escapes. Muscular atrophy is an early and characteristic sign of joint-disease. The muscles, the bones, and the joint, are all under the nutritive care of nerves coming out from the Fig. 104. — Disease of Right Hip Joint; Buttock widened and