364 ACUTE SEPTIC OSTEOMYELITIS. has occurred at the seat of the injection. After the death of the animals septic inflammation is found in the liver, the kid- neys, the joints, and elsewhere; and even from the blood itself cultures of staphylococci have been made. Indeed, the local condition runs hand in hand with pycemia. The staphylococci probably enter by the capillaries of the mouth, naso-pharynx, respiratory tract or alimentary canal Sometimes they have been received through a septic wound near to, or remote from, the region of osteal attack. The disease is truly infective. For instance, if any of the septic micro-organisms gain admission into the surgeon’s finger, they may go on developing after their kind and involve him in pyaemia. A scratch received whilst re- moving a sequestrum from a child or a young adult, after septic ostitis, is apt to end disastrously. The starting-point of the disease is the soft tissue at the end of a diaphysis; being the most delicate part of the bone, it is most likely to suffer from injury, and it offers to the micrococci a very suitable habitat. But these micrococci are not the only germs which select this delicate tissue; the bacilli of tuberculosis affect it with equal readiness, as in the case of spinal caries (page 246), and in many instances of joint disease. Very often the child has been playing about well and strong, has been at school, or has been engaged in light work, until the moment that he is attacked. I use the masculine pronoun advisedly, for a considerable proportion of those coming under treatment are boys. Out of a total of 165 cases collected by me, 96 were in males and 69 in females—the figures working out about five boys to three girls. In these 165 cases the femur Avas affected in 83, the tibia in 47, and the humerus in 20. Next in order came the fibula: and in still smaller proportions came the radius, ulna, clavicle, and os calcis. The reason for boys being more often attacked than girls is that they are, in their work and play, more exposed to injuries; and injury is usually the determining cause of acute inflammation. It is surprising that, Avith so intense an inflammation at the end of a diaphysis, the neighbouring epiphysis should so often escape; but the diaphysis has practically nothing to