23 PROGNOSIS. albumens; it is only exceptionally caused by the irritation oi the micro-organisms themselves. The prognosis is always grave, diphtheria being one of the most dangerous diseases to which childhood is liable ; the smaller the child, the more easily does the glottis become obstructed, and the less is the chance of his struggling success- fully against the toxin. Increased frequency of respiration is invariably a bad sign, especially when it is accompanied with a rising temperature. Pneumonia is then to be feared. Cellulitis of the neck and enlargement of the glands about the angle of the jaw are unfavourable signs; so also are the complaints of pain about the ear. The pains about the ear may be the result of in- flammatory pressure upon the auricularis magnus, or some other nerve, or of an extension of the inflammation along the Eustachian tube. A fatal result is sometimes preceded by emphysema of the neck, resulting from rupture of the pul- monary vesicles and escape of air under the pleura, into the mediastinum, and into the cervical connective tissue. Concerning the temperature, something may occasionally be learnt as regards the probable termination of the case, but one must not make too great a point of its observation. In certain cases one sees as much attention given to its registra- tion as if this were actually a therapeutic measure. A persist- ently high temperature forebodes ill; so also does a rapidly falling one, especially if, at the same time, fresh patches are forming. Other unfavourable signs are anaemia; failing strength, or increasing prostration and restlessness; an un- steadiness or irregularity in the pulse, and dislike of food. Vomiting is a grave sign; it suggests uraemic poisoning, or an irritable condition of the stomach, and its continuance must necessarily be attended with increasing exhaustion. It is apt to be a precursor of cardiac failure. Other signs of cardiac failure are the slowing of the pulse to 50 or 40 in the minute, and a dusky colour in the cheek. This is caused by the ptomaine acting on the vaso-motor centre, and it goes hand in hand with increasing nerve-degeneration. It is a bad sign, moreover, when the urine diminishes in quantity, becomes darker in colour, and shows an increasing amount of albumen.