267 LAMINECTOMY. Not infrequently it happens that the child with spinal caries becomes the subject of chronic tuberculous disease in a hip, knee, ankle, or wrist; and if this complication prove intractable, I am sure that it is inadvisable to keep on temporis- ing with the secondary disease. The child might successfully struggle against one trouble, but under the two he will probably succumb. Amputation affords him the best pros- pect of complete recovery, provided that excision is out of the question in his state of health. As soon as the diseased joint is dealt Avith by. excision or amputation the spinal trouble may make a start towards recovery. Laminectomy is the operation for the removal of the posterior arches of the vertebrae which form the angular projection in advanced Pott’s disease, in order that search ; , may be made for the cause of the paraplegia, and, if possible, its removal effected. The periosteum having been scraped off, the laminae are cut with special pliers and lifted out. The dura mater is then cleared of loose connective tissue, and the spinal canal is explored. If a localised abscess be discovered, it is gently scraped out, and the diffuse growth of granulation-tissue A\diich is commonly met Avith is similarly dealt with; so also Avith organised lymph and sequestra. The wound is closed and drained, and the child is kept prone. Some cases do Avell. But, as Kirmisson says, “ side by side Avitli the happy results, 1 Avhat disasters ! ’ ” Possibly as Ave come to understand which are the proper cases for ■operation Ave shall have a better proportion of successes. We constantly see long-standing paraplegia recover Avithout opera- tion, for rest in the horizontal position Avorks Avonders in these cases, and as laminectomy gives its best results Avhen it is resorted to early, there Avill be a risk of its being performed Avithout giving Nature her chance. Certainly the operation is useless Avhen long-standing disease has set up gross structural lesions in the cord. My oavii practical experience of the operation has been very limited, and I am unable to speak Avith authority on the subject. Many surgeons, hoAvever, Avhose opinions I value highly, say that they have seen no real advantage obtained by operating. But if no advantage is forthcoming, the operation cannot but be harmful, on account of the importance of those elements