318 .POLYPUS. Fig. 73. — Keotal Poly- pus. divided rectum being pulled out of reach into the peritoneal cavity, for the prolapsed piece of bowel has a serous covering. Should this happen, abdominal section might have to be performed, in order to prevent the occurrence of fecal extra- vasation into the peritoneum. Polypus is associated with great irritability of the rectum and bladder; the child strains and cries at stool, and often passes nothing but a little blood and mucus. The vascular growth may be attached to the wall of the bowel by a pedicle of sufficient length to allow of its escape during defecation; it is then tightly grasped by the spasmodic con- traction of the sphincter, the sensory nerves at its base are dragged down, and the boy screams with agony. The mother, examining for cause of the dis- tress, may catch sight of the polypus if it have not already been drawn up again, and she may correctly describe it as being of the size and colour of a ripe currant or cherry (Fig. 73). Even without the mother having seen it, the history is almost conclusive :—The frequent going to the closet, the bleeding, and the agony when the polypus has been caught by the sphincter. Many of the symptoms are those of vesical calculus (page 298). With prolapse of the rectal lining, the anus is dilated ; but in the case of polypus it is in a condition of habitual and spasmodic contraction, so that before making a digital exploration an anaesthetic should be administered. In every case of bleeding from the rectum, methodical search should be made for polypus; it is sometimes so freely movable on its slender stalk that it may be taken for a fecal nodule. Even if the rectum contain no feces, the tumour may glide before the finger, and escape detection. The tumour is an adenoma in structure, and it is probably attached to the posterior wall of the bowel. The treatment consists in dilating the anus, pulling down the polypus, and tying its pedicle tightly Avith a strong Avaxed ligature. Unless quite small, it is not safe to tear it off Avith