357 CHARACTERS. carrying about a baby; weakly girls should never be allowed to lift heavy infants. Sometimes the curvature comes on after illness. The chief of the early symptoms are “ back- ache,” lassitude, and lolling and stooping, especially if a walk have been long or lessons fatiguing. With the lateral deviation of the column the weight is unevenly distributed upon the bones and cartilages, so that that part of the bodies of the vertebras which is directed to the concavity, and the corresponding articular processes atrophy. The body of the vertebrae being squeezed, as it were, from out of the region of excessive pressure, the tip of the spinous process is twisted into the concavity of the curve, the whole vertebra undergoing rotation on its vertical axis. When, therefore, the line of the spinous processes is dotted out on the naked back, the track represents only approximately the extent of the curvature, the bodies of the vertebrae being much more deflected from their normal site than one would be led to infer. The vertebrae may be so much rotated that the transverse processes are directed actually backwards. On the concave side the ribs are crowded together, whilst on the other they are widely spread out; and from the rota- tion of the vertebrae, the angles of the ribs on the convex side are pulled far back and rendered more acute, as shown in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 86). But great as the thoracic deformity may be, on account of the gradual and quiet manner in which it has been induced, the heart and lungs will have accommodated them- selves to the situation without material inconvenience. For examining the patient the clothes should be removed to below Fig. 8G. — Section of Chest, showing Deformity conse- quent on Lateral, Rotary Curvature. (After Shaw.) the level of the iliac crests, so that it may be seen if they are on the same level when the girl stands with her heels together; the girl should then bend forward, and the line of the spinous processes should be traced out from occiput to sacrum. Being then partially dressed, she should be placed