2Q4 AMPUTATION OF THE TONSIL. take charge of the gag and the tongue-depressor. The masses may be removed by either the guillotine, or by the straight blunt-ended bistoury and vulsellum. If the guillotine be used, it should be the simple one here figured (Fig. 43). I prefer the straight, blunt-ended bistoury and vulsellum, amputating first the right tonsil with my left hand, and then the left with my right hand. There should be a vulsellum for each tonsil, for trouble and delay may be experienced in disen- gaging the teeth of the forceps from the amputated mass. Too little may be removed unless the operator pull the tonsil towards the middle of the fauces during the section. The internal carotid artery is in no danger. If the boy be plucky, Fig. 43.'—Tonsil Guillotine. (The handle is not shown.) the operation may be done after giving the tonsils a painting with a five per cent, solution of cocaine, and after three minutes a second painting. When, three minutes later, the tonsils are amputated, he will not feel much. He should be sitting or standing in front of a good light. An assistant should help with a tongue-depressor, but a gag is not needed. Directly after the operation, the child should be laid flat upon the side, with the face turned downwards, so that the oozing blood may escape by the mouth. If the half-conscious patient be allowed to occupy a sitting or a supine position, the blood may possibly find its way into the larynx. After the return of consciousness the patient may suck ice, and be fed on an unirritating fluid diet. He should be kept indoors for a day or two, a boracic acid spray being used every few hours. If serious haemorrhage complicate the operation, a piece of lint dipped in powdered alum should be pressed against the bleeding surface, and, if necessary, the bleeding surface may be touched with the point of the forceps, which has been heated in the fire, or by some handy cautery. For amputation of the tonsil, neither the electric nor the Paquelin cautery is a suitable instrument. Of enucleation of the entire tonsil I