238 FOREIGN BODY IN WIND-RIPE. monary oedema, with dulness on percussion would supervene. The earlier the operation is performed, the greater the pros- pect of a successful issue. Whatever the position of the foreign body, whether in larynx or trachea, high tracheotomy, or laryngo-traclieotomy, is the operation advised. Low opera- tions upon the trachea are difficult and dangerous, and they offer no real advantage over the high and simple one. After operation, artificial respiration may be required. This is best accomplished by slow and rhythmical compression of the elastic chest-walls. (For operation, see Chap. III.) The edges of the tracheal wound should be held apart by looped sutures, or, better still, they may be stitched to the skin. The child should be laid prone, with the head hanging over the head of the table, sudden pressure being made over the back of the chest synchronous with expiration. Possibly, if the opening in the trachea is ample, the substance will be expelled with blood and mucus in a violent fit of coughing; but if not, attempts to extract it must be deliberately and gently made by slender curved forceps passed down the bronchus in the direction of the tideless lung. Durham’s flexible forceps, which work in a spiral wire, are excellent for the purpose. If this fail, a loop of stiffisli wire, bent near the closed end, should be passed down, in the hope of snaring and with- drawing the substance, or of setting it free, either by actual disturbance or by coughing. If every attempt fail, the tra- cheal wound must be kept permanently open, the child being encouraged to lie prone; on subsequent occasions renewed efforts may be undertaken. A tube must not be worn, or the substance would have little chance of escaping. But if, by good fortune, it have been extracted, the wound should be at once closed by fine sutures. I entirely agree with Mr. Page, that the right thing in all such instances is to persevere day by day until the body is dislodged, for the manipulations of the operator are a source of far less danger than the continued lodgment of the foreign body. The records of cases show that it is only a question of time when purulent pneumonia, bronchiectasis, or phthisis Avill occur. The foreign body must somehow be got out; and towards this end a free opening in the trachea, and the stitching of its edges to the skin, give the