DERMOID CYSTS. 129 its unvarying size, the tumour neither increasing when the child cries nor diminishing under pressure. If the tumour were a meningocele it would either grow larger or smaller. If smaller, no treatment would be necessary, for it would in time completely shrivel up; if larger, its nature would be obvious, and active treatment shown to be impracticable. The dermoid cyst would, in all probability, grow larger by slow degrees; it would remain firm and rounded; and, unless embedded in the bone, it would be more or less movable; then the sooner that it is dissected out the better. Still, it is sometimes extremely difficult to say for certain whether a tumour over a fontanelle is a meningocele or a dermoid, and in all these cases the surgeon must proceed with the utmost caution. Mr. Sutton gives an excellent account of these cysts, and of their occurrence in the region of the anterior fonta- nelle, reminding us that early in embryonic life the dura mater and scalp are in contact, and that though the growth of the skull soon causes a separation of these layers, the scalp and fibrous covering of the brain remain in actual contact along the sinuses for a year or more after birth, and especially so at the anterior fontanelle and at the region of the torcular. “ Should the skin be imperfectly separated, or, indeed, a portion remain persistently adherent to the dura, it would act precisely as a tumour-germ, and give rise to a dermoid cyst. Such a piece of skin may retain its old attachment to the dura, and its pedicle becoming surrounded by bone, the cyst resulting from it would lie outside the bone, but be lodged in a depression on its surface with an aperture transmitting its pedicle.” Operation for its removal is not always easy. The in- cision should pass right into the substance of the tumour, the cyst-wall being then dissected out. None of the cyst should be left behind, lest healing be delayed and the opera- tion prove but partially successful. If the cyst be embedded in the bone, the neighbouring dura mater must not be injured during extraction. The edges of the wound should be drawn together with cross-strapping, rather than with sutures. It redness or inflammation follow, it may be treated by water-dressing under oil-silk. When a tumour has to be