489 JUVENILE GANGRENE. may be tried. Probably it matters little as to what the ingredient of the stimulating embrocation may be: the linimentum carnphorse co. is much used, either alone or in combination. Rubbing the skin with snow is a favourite and efficient means of exciting the circulation of cold hands and feet. In the later stages, frictions and liniments are out of place, but Friar’s balsam may be painted over the raw surfaces. Cocaine, in solution, may give relief. As sloughs loosen, a small piece of lint soaked in dilute carbolic acid lotion may be applied under a rather larger piece of oil-silk. In these circumstances exercise cannot be taken, nor ordinary shoes worn. When the heel is the seat of chilblain, it must be freed from pressure of the boot by cutting away the upper leather down to the level of the heel of the boot, the gap being filled in by a piece of soft black kid. The sores about the heel may give rise to much suffering. They may be dressed with Friar’s balsam, vaseline and eucalyptus, or, as remarked above, with a solution of cocaine. Juvenile gangrene, Raynaud’s disease, is a symmetrical gangrene of the fingers, toes, or other parts, which is especially apt to occur during cold weather. The cause is probably spasmodic contraction of the arterioles, so that the distant tissues receive an insufficient supply of blood; the disease is, therefore, sometimes called local asphyxia. The gan- grene is preceded by coldness, the skin being either blanched or dusky, and the tissues painful. It may be associated with hsematuria. The affected part becomes livid, and then black; the epidermis is raised in blebs, from which ill- smelling serum oozes. There is much constitutional de- pression, from which, or from some form of septicaemia, the child may sink. The part should be dusted with boracic acid, and wrapped in cotton-wool. There should be no rash interference in the way of cauterisation or amputation; a line of demarcation must be patiently awaited. In the meanwhile, everything must bo done to improve the general health and vigour of the child. The temperature of the room must be kept up, warm clothes supplied, and iron and quinine prescribed. According v p *