101 TREATMENT. half a grain of grey powder may be administered in coloured sugar two or three times a day. For many emaciated children, the inunction of the blue ointment with cod-liver oil, persistently carried out, is of great value. The cod-liver oil inunction is especially useful when an infant cannot derive proper supplies of nourishment from the breast, on account of the “ stuffiness ” in the nose. The treatment by inunction is continued for six or eight weeks, or longer if necessary; but an unduly prolonged treatment causes ansemia and wasting, and interferes with the development of the per- manent teeth. I do not remember ever to have seen a child salivated whilst under this treatment; nevertheless, the gums should be frequently inspected. The periodical weighing of the child is advisable; the steady increase of weight under the influence of the mercury is remarkable. Children are very frequently brought for further treat- ment on account of relapse, especially if instructions laid down on previous occasions have not been carried out; but with prolonged and careful supervision the disease can be brought into complete and permanent subjection. Condylomata and mucous patches may be dusted over with starch and calomel, and kept clean and dry. This dusting-powder may be used for the moist surfaces like toilet-powder. If the condylomata be at the verge of the anus, in the fold of the buttocks, or between the thigh and scrotum, the opposed surfaces must be separated by cotton- wool, on which calomel has been dusted. (Plate III., Fig. 1.) In later stages, especially if bones be involved, iodide of potassium in two-grain doses, taken in plenty of sweet- ened water, proves of the greatest service. Nasal discharges need frequent irrigation with warm solutions of salt or of sanitas, the head being allowed to hang forward during the process. Calomel may then be blown up the nostrils by an insufflator. If the pain in diffuse ostitis be very severe, and be not greatly relieved by medicinal treatment, it will probably yield to linear incisions or borings deeply made by a Hey’s saw or a gimlet. Of the infectiousness of congenital syphilis there should be no doubt. Mr. Arthur Hall, of Sheffield, recently showed