SCALD OF FAUCES' 239 surgeon great additional facilities in his efforts at extraction. Mr. G-odlee also says that the inconvenience of an early tracheotomy and persistent searching are not for a moment to be weighed against the serious injury which may be caused by even a few weeks’ residence of a foreign body in a bronchus. But if, in spite of attempts at extraction, the body remain obstructing the bronchus, the tracheal wound must be allowed to close. Mucus, blood, or pus, may be expectorated ; and possibly after days, months, or years, the substance may be expelled through the larynx in a fit of coughing. Its presence might likely cause abscess in a part of the lung, or give rise to phthisis, haemorrhage, or septicaemia. An attack of pleuro-pneumonia being associated with localised abscess, the substance might even then happily escape through an intercostal space. If bronchiectasis occur, resection of a rib and direct exploration of the injured part of the lung must be re- sorted to. If the impaction of a foreign body in the lung were demonstrated by the X rays, I should deem it to be the surgeon’s duty to remove it by operation. For this purpose he might make a trap-cloor in the side of the chest, and, either in one stage or in two stages, work his way inwards. Scald of fauces.—A common childish trick is to put the mouth to the spout of a teapot, or of a kettle upon the fire, and suck. If the mouthful of fluid thus drawn up be very hot, acute inflammation and oedema, with pain and dyspnoea, at once come on. The oedema may similarly be due to the child inhaling flame when its clothes catch fire ; it extends to the level of the vocal cords, but not below them. Treatment.—The hot sponge, or leeches, may be applied, and two grains of calomel given every hour, or two minims of antimony Avine with half a minim of tincture of aconite, every fifteen or tAventy minutes, until a definite effect is produced. Small doses of a mixture of cod-liver oil and lime-Avater maj^ be frequently sAvalloAved as a soothing application to the inflamed membranes. Intubation of the larynx (see p. 26) may be found efficient treatment, for the oedema is local and transient, and