191 THRUSH. be of impaired construction, or the blood thin and un- coagulable (haemophilia), the bleeding may be arrested only after much anxiety and trouble. The wounds in the gum may be slow to heal, or may be involved in suppuration, or the infant may suck them, and so keep up exhausting haemorrhage. Bleeding after tooth extraction, which may be depen- dent on the haemorrhagic diathesis (page 54), may best be treated by plugging the alveolar cavity with a morsel of dry lint. If the bleeding have been serious, the child should be constantly watched, lest oozing entail a fatal exhaustion. The thermo-cautery may, possibly, prove useful in checking the bleeding, but it should be used with discretion. Thrush.—Small curd-like patches are found upon the buccal membrane in early infancy; they are due to the presence in the epithelium of a fungus, the oidium albicans. At first the fungus is easily detached, but when it has impli- cated the deep layers of the epithelium it is not so manage- able. Beneath the flaky patch is an ulceration of the mucous membrane, and close around it is a hyperaim ic ring. The flakes are of about the size of a pin’s head; they may be scattered or confluent. Fresh crops or patches may occur throughout a series of days or weeks. The infant is restless and disinclined to suck, and he may suffer from sickness and diarrhoea. Treatment.—The mouth should be swabbed out after each meal with boracic acid and glycerine lotion. Borax with honey forms an agreeable and useful application to the patches. An occasional dose of rhubarb and soda will be required. Attention must be given to the infant’s diet, and greater care paid, in the way of cleanliness, to the feeding- bottle (page 11), spoon, or cup. Follicular and aphthous stomatitis appear in the weakly child, especially after measles. Either condition may attack several children in a family at once, and it is often associated with swollen tonsils or “ sore throat.” Attention should be directed to the condition of the milk- and the water-supplies, and to the ventilation and drainage. The treatment just described will answer well. Among school-children in France superficial sores and