TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. 441 may occur previous to any definite lesion of that tissue ; they are explained on page 408. In due course characteristic displacement ot the leg ensues. The head of the tibia is drawn backwards (flexion), so as to relax the lateral ligaments, which are placed well behind the axis of the joint. Later, the muscles which steady the joint in this easy position undergo permanent short- ening, and the head of the tibia is displaced to the back of the condyles. As the ligaments soften and yield, and as for ease and comfort the limb is resting constantly upon its outer side, the head of the tibia, from the mere weight of the leg, drops to the outer side. At the same time, the weight of the foot rotates the leg outwards. Thus the head of the tibia is carried backwards and outwards, and is rotated outwards. This deformity goes on increasing until the internal condyle of the femur projects beneath the skin like a morbid out- growth, atrophy of the vastus interims rendering it still more conspicuous. Internal rotation of the tibia, which is prevented in the sound joint by the locking of the crucial ligaments, is sometimes obtainable after long-standing inflammation. It implies destruction of the crucial ligaments and advanced articular disease. Though the ends of the bones may appear to be enlarged, as a matter of fact they are not—the thickening is all in the soft tissues about the joint, which the wasting of the adjacent muscles renders all the more conspicuous. The treatment of tuberculous disease demands absolute rest. If the child be young or untrustworthy, he should be secured in his cot, the thigh and leg being encased in a rigid splint from buttock to ankle. This may be made of undressed leather moulded on to the sides of the straightened limb, and secured by straps ; or lateral splints of plaster of Paris may be applied. It is useless to adopt this treatment if the child is still allowed to get about. The family attendant should, therefore, from the very onset be firm in insisting on absolute rest. Thomas’s knee-splints consist of an ovoid ring of f-in. iron, well padded, and covered with leather. It is welded obliquely upon the upper ends of two parallel iron rods, which are long enough to reach several inches below the sole of the foot, where they are joined by a ring. A leather apron is stretched across