386 FRACTURES. the head of the bone receiving the conical end of the dia- physis in a sort of socket. Thus the fracture traverses soft bone as well as cartilage. With so extensive and rough a fractured surface complete displacement is hardly likely ; nor is one certain to obtain a definite crepitus, for on rotating the arm the upper fragment would very likely rotate with the shaft. To search too closely for crepitus is to cause undue pain and needless local disturbance ; but it may be advisable to put the child under the influence of an anaesthetic, and thoroughly but gently to examine the swollen shoulder. The shaft of the bone may be moved without disturbing the articular end. As a rule, the upper end of the diaphysis is displaced for- wards and inwards, so that it forms a sharp and characteristic projection beneath the skin at the anterior border of the deltoid. Separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus is by no means an uncommon injury in children and young adults, but the correct diagnosis is not infrequently missed. When once the peculiar ridge formed by the top of the shaft- fragment has been seen, the recognition of the lesion should be a simple matter. Treatment.—Whether the diagnosis be clearly made out or no, a small pad of cotton-wool, folded in a soft hand- kerchief, may be placed in the arm-pit, and the arm and hand fixed against the side of the chest, as in the case of fracture of the clavicle. It is well to mould a splint over the deltoid region; no inside splint can be of service, the fracture being high in the arm-pit. The chest affords an excellent lateral support for the shaft-fragment. The forearm and hand should be worn in a sling. The elbow and fore-arm must not be raised in the sling, lest the upper end of the shaft-fragment be shifted from its proper position, and so, after the removal of the bandages, unevenness would be found at the line of fracture. Even after the exercise of much skill and attention, some irregu- larity may be detected on the removal of the splint, this should cause neither alarm nor anxiety; it will probably be smoothed off Avith the subsequent groAvth of the bone; and Avhen the deltoid has been fully exercised again, any little shapelessness will be shrouded under the muscle. I have seen most marked deformity at the shoulder