8 INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. should be very smoothly arranged, and crumbs and such-like things should not be allowed to collect in the hollow. Scarlet fever is strangely apt to occur after any cutting operation, the fever germs being probably absorbed through the wound; the disease may be manifested within twenty- four hours of the operation. The rash is not to be euphoni- ously called “erythema,” or “surgical scarlatina”—it is genuine scarlet fever;* it can convey infection even to an adult, and it is likely to be followed by desquamation and albuminuria. The child thus attacked should at once be isolated ; it does not follow that the result of the operation will be a failure. It has twice been my experience after operating for cleft palate to find that complete union followed in spite of scarlet fever. Sir James Paget has suggested f that children who have died with obscure symptoms a day or two after operation may have succumbed to the influence of scarlet-fever poison, which had been hindered in some way from making its usual progress. Erysipelas occasionally follows this so-called “ surgical ” scarlet fever. In the case of a boy with post-pharyngeal abscess which was opened in the neck, scarlet fever set in, and subsequently facial erysipelas, from which, however, he ultimately recovered. The occurrence of a rash, however, after an operation, even when accompanied with a sore throat and a disturbed temperature, does not necessarily betoken scarlet fever ; the rash may be septiccemic, and some time may have to elapse before its nature is clearly manifested. Medicines should be given in the most palatable form. Castor oil loses none of its efficiency by being shaken up in a bottle with a little warm milk and sugar. The smallest bulk is desirable as a dose, and the less medicine given to children the better. One must not lose sight of the fact, however, that opium is a very valuable drug in the surgery of childhood. It is well to begin with small doses, and to go on increasing them until the desired effect is produced. The simple tincture or camphorated tincture is the best form for administration. The first doses should be given every half-hour, or every hour, until ease of pain, drowsiness, or * Harveian Lectures : British Medical Journal, March 6, 1SS0. f “ Clinical Lectures,” p. 352. 2nd edition.