CHAPTER XXII. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. The most likely cause of intestinal obstruction in a child is intussusception. It may be acute or chronic. In the former variety the child is suddenly taken with pain across the umbilical region, and probably with vomiting. He cries or screams, and he tosses about and kicks when the seizure comes on, and he may even be attacked with con- vulsions. The pain is usually subject to intermissions and paroxysms. Sometimes the first severe attack is preceded by diarrhoea or by Avarnings of colic; often extreme collapse comes on Avith the first severe pain. Thus the prominent symptoms of intussusception are those of strangulated hernia, and there is great truth in the statement that the internal strangulation demands active operative interference in a no less degree than an external hernia. No motion or flatus may have been passed, though the bowel beloiv may have emptied itself soon after the first attack of vomiting, or there may be scanty dejections of fseculent mucus. Either Avitli or Avithout urgent or evident straining, mucus tinged Avith blood, or blood alone, may be passed per anum. Indeed, the escape of a little blood-stained mucus is the great feature of intussusception, and it serAres to distinguish the disease from volvulus, and strangulation by bands. As a rule, there is a good deal of distressful retching; and at first the matter vomited is the contents of the stomach, and later the bile-stained fluids of the duodenum ; still later the vomit may have a fieculent odour. Probably the sickness is the direct result of the shock to, and continued irritation of, the sympathetic system, just as it is by shock to the solar plexus that a boy struck in the “pit of the stomach” Avhen at play is attacked Avith vomiting. The more persistent the vomiting, the less is the abdominal distension, as the flatus escapes Avith the vomit. So, also, Avhen the obstruction is not absolute, diarrhoea may be persistent, gas escaping per anum, and the