LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 30 5 withdraws it, and passes the left index finger through the bladder-wound, and feels the stone. For this he takes the stafi:’ into the right hand; but if he find the wound in the prostatic urethra too small to allow of the tip ot the finger being passed on to the pubic side of the staff, he enlarges it a little with the knife; otherwise he might tear through the rest of the urethral Avail, and push the bladder oft- the end of the staff. An inefficient use of the knife at the base of the bladder is the commonest cause of blank litho- tomy, for the surgeon having detached the unopened bladder, and having excavated a space by his finger in the depths of the pelvic outlet, mistakes it for the bladder. If the urethra have not been completely torn through, the timely opening of the neck of the bladder may yet prevent disaster; but if the bladder have been pushed off the staff, and the stone cannot be struck, the child should be sent to bed for a time, un- relieved; no speculati\re cuts should be made towards the bladder Avith the forlorn hope of reaching the stone. An important rule is not to Avithdraw the staff until the finger is touching the stone. As the finger is Avorking its Avay into the bladder, it is stretching some tissues and ruptur- ing others, until a free passage has been effected. When the stone is touched, and the staff removed, a slender, straight pair of forceps is run over the finger on to the stone; the handles are separated, and by a little manoeuvring the stone is caught, and steadily draAvn in the direction of the pelvic outlet. If the stone be large, it may be necessary gently to Avork the handles from side to side, and up and doAvn, so as to stretch the Avound to the utmost; no jerking is permissible. After the stone is extracted, the finger should be introduced again, to make sure that there is not a second stone. Some small vessel, such as a branch of the superficial peri meal, may require tying; or, if deeply placed, catch-forceps may be applied; or the pressure exerted betAveen the edges of the Avound, Avhen the thighs are brought doAvn, may suffice to check it, especially if a small piece of ice be left near the Avound, or a syringeful of iced Avater be thrown into the bladder. If these measures prove insufficient, a petticoated tube may be arranged. Through a small hole in the middle of u