DISEASE OF THE KNEE JOINT. 442 the bars to support the back' of the limb. The lower and more thickly padded part of the upper ring tits against the ischial tuberosity, supporting it like a crutch, and is kept in its place by a brace passing over the shoulder of the sound side. The thigh is first fixed in the trough of the splint by a wide flannel roller, but the leg is not to be so firmly bandaged and escape the gently straightening pres- sure. During the treatment friction is arrested, and the child, if old enough, can walk about without fear of hurting the knee (Figs. 113, 114). If there be considerable displacement of the tibia, the use of Thomas’s splint will be well nigh indispensable. Though no child is too young for these splints, it is only the trustworthy child that can be allowed the patten and crutches. Fig. 113.-Thomas’s tilG cure is being wrought the boy Splint for Right has to be kept in bed. with6 a°pattenklto With the intelligent use of Thomas’s of Um oth°er boot!6 knee-splint persistently carried out until feet recovery or synostosis having occurred, excision would be rarely needed. The force thus applied is altogether different in its effect from energetic straightening under chloroform, the result of which is but to shift the tibia farther back upon the femoral condyles, or else partially to detach the epiphyseal cartilage. The popliteal vessels and nerves, moreover, may be injured by rude treatment. Forcible straightening is men- tioned only to be condemned ; deformity can be improved if not corrected by the patient and gentle use of Thomas’s apparatus or of a series of leather or gypsum splints. Either with or without the occurrence of abscess, the joint to the splint as the thigh has been, so that as the limb yields to the pressure, the foot may descend. The limb cannot bwist round The method of treatment by weight and pulley is not nearly so satisfactory as this, either in bringing the knee straight or in completing convalescence; besides, all pain has disappeared, either from per-