278 EXTROVERSION OF BLADDER. operation prove a success, no serious inconvenience need be anticipated from the subsequent growth of hair against the tender coating of the bladder; the continual wetting of the epidermal surface by the urine will render it more like a mucous membrane, and unfit for the production of hair. In dissecting up the scrotal flap, care must be taken that a hernial sac, which in such cases is often present, be not inter- fered with. It may be well to begin treatment by removing the testes and diverting the rudimentary penis through the root of the scrotum. In all operations for the closure of the hiatus it must be remembered that the intequments of the abdomen are thin, and that a dissection is apt to involve the peritoneum. Whenever possible, the tissues of the scrotum should be employed for bridging over the exposed membrane ; it is often redundant, and is generally tolerant of surgical inter- ference. Trendelenburg’s method of treatment consists in disarticulating the haunch-bones from the sacrum and tilting them forwards so as to approximate the defective pubes and vivifying and suturing the edges of the hiatus. The best result attainable in any case may be that the patient will be able the better to catch the dribbling urine in a well-fitting indiarubber reservoir; operation cannot shape a new bladder, and even if it could, it would be unable to supply a sphincter. In consequence of the constant irritation at the opening of the ureters, and, secondarily, of impairment of proper working of the kidney, suppurative or cystic nephritis may cause the failure of the most carefully-planned opera- tion, and sooner or later entail death. These remarks apply also to other instances in Avhich the normal outflow of the urine has been hindered. The ureters have been laid into the rectum, with the idea of converting that piece of the bowel into a urinary reser- voir. The objections to this are that the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum is likely to be Avounded and a fatal peritonitis to ensue; that, should the patient survive the operation, he may be troubled by constant diarrhoea; that, as the operation- Avound contracts, the IIoav of urine into the boAvel will be so seriously obstructed as to cause renal disease, and that the risk of septic nephritis is very great.