342 TUBERCULOUS INFLAMMATION OF EPIDIDYMIS. epididymis rather than the testis helps to distinguish it from sarcoma. Sarcoma increases much more rapidly, and may quickly cause an enlargement of the lumbar glands that may be detected through the abdominal wall of a thin child. The tuberculous inflammation is apt steadily to advance, spreading into testis, vas, and vesicula. The lowly organised deposit of granulation-tissue caseates or liquefies, the scrotum becomes adherent and undermined, the dusky skin gives way, and an unhealthy cavity persists with overhanging walls and protruding granulations. The other epididymis and testis are very apt to be involved, and—what is far worse—the tuberculous infection is exceedingly likely to be disseminated and to cause a fatal inflammation of the spine, the membranes of the brain, or the lungs. Treatment.—Whilst there is stdl a doubt as to the nature of the enlargement, the child should be treated with cod-liver oil and iron ; he should be warmly dressed and, if practicable, subjected to the influence of sea air and sunshine. The testis should not be strapped, as this may help in causing dissemina- tion, nor should any local treatment be adopted. But, however carefully the palliative treatment of tuberculous epididymitis may be carried out, it is very likely to end in disappoint- ment, and during that time dissemination is apt to be taking place. I am strongly in favour, therefore, of removing the testis as soon as positive diagnosis is made. Clinical experi- ence shows that the disease is far more disastrous than is, for instance, a tuberculous affection of a cervical gland or of a knee-joint, and the sooner the child can be freed from it the better. The epididymis and testis are so small that the scraping out of a tuberculous focus, to be efficient, must entail physiological destruction of the gland, and even then there is great risk of infective material being left behind. When discussing the question of removal of the gland, the surgeon and the parents should be guided by common sense, and not by sentiment. And if, as time goes on, the opposite gland be involved, it also should be removed. The presence of enlargement in the vesicula seminalis does not, in my opinion, contra-indicate removal of the testis. Indeed, after its removal, the vesicular swelling may possibly