124 TUMOURS. particularly apt to be associated with the sacrum, ovary, or testis; and any cystic formation may contain bone, hair, or tooth. According to Mr. Lowne, these cases of heterologous union are the result of a second embryo becoming wedged in between the visceral arches or lamina? of another before they unite, the development of the second being arrested. Congenital hypertrophy, or atrophy, may affect an entire limb or part of a limb, or any individual organ or part of it. The error of development must be ascribed to some obscure disturbance of nutrition. It is by no means rare to find a limb shorter than its fellow, and when the thigh and leg are implicated the case may at first appear as a clinical puzzle. The great trochanters are practically on the same level; and when the child is laid flat on its back, and its thighs are flexed to a right angle, one femur is found short; again, when the knees are placed on the same level, the leg-bones on tbe one side are short and the foot is small. There is nothing wrong with the joints. In such a case, all that one can do is to add an appropriate thickening to the heel and sole of the boot. In some cases the arrest of development seems to be the direct result of the umbilical cord having been twisted around the limb. Congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours.—Tumours about the sacral or coccygeal region may be connected with the front of the sacrum, the spinal canal, or even with pelvic viscera. Exploration through the rectum may afford evi- dence of complicated attachments. These tumours often originate as abnormal dilatations of the post-anal gut, a part of the alimentary canal which, for a certain period of embryonic life, exists posterior to the anus. The minute structure of this variety of teratoma agrees, in every particular, with the histological details of the section of the gut. Some of these tumours are of such enormous size as apparently to be incompatible with life; they may be sarco- matous in their nature and some may spring from Luschka s gland. The skin over the tumour may undergo ulceration, and fatal exhaustion may supervene. If a coccygeal tumour be found deeply connected with the interior of the pelvis, it had better not be interfered with.