215 FOREIGN BODY IN EAR. A foreign body in the ear may generally be removed by a pair of fine forceps, provided that it have not passed right down the meatus. But if it be round and smooth, like a pea, and do not offer a hold for the forceps, it is better to place the child at once under the influence of chloroform, and to get the blade of a curette, or a bent wire, actually behind the foreign body before attempting extraction, even at the expense of wounding the integu- ment of the meatus. It is injudicious to struggle with the child, and so to run the risk of pushing the body farther down, or to try to get it out by syringing unless the stream can be introduced behind it. Much damage may be done by an unskilled person attempting extraction ; thus the body is almost sure to be forced through the narrow part of the meatus. If the syringe be used, the auricle should at the same time be pulled upwards and backwards, so as to facilitate the escape, and the nozzle of the syringe should be applied to the roof of the meatus. If much swelling and inflammation of the meatus have been caused by the foreign body, or by unsuccessful attempts at its removal, leeches should be applied in front of the tragus. After the inflammation has subsided, the syringe may easily remove the foreign body; but one should not attempt extraction so long as the slightest tumefaction is present* A foreign body which has passed through the narrow part of the meatus may lie loose at the bottom of it without creating disturbance, whilst clumsy attempts at removal may destroy the tympanitic membrane, and possibly give rise to a fatal otitis and meningitis. When insects crcnvl into the ear, they are readily killed by a few drops of olive oil. Suppurative otitis is apt to follow scarlet fever and diphtheria, or it may be the result of a simple acute or chronic otitis, especially in the tuberculous subject. The membrana tympani having been destroyed, the meatus fills with offensive pus, and the discharge may continue year after year, without apparently much distress of any kind—but always with risk. Occasionally, blood is mixed with the pus, and the ossicles may be detached and discharged. Granu- * Field, “Diseases of the Ear,” page 40. 2nd edit.