OF SHAFT OF HUMERUS. 383 be kept in place by a few stitches, and a close-fitting cinglet may be drawn over all. A thin layer of linen may be laid between the naked arm and chest, and violet powder dusted on the skin. An axillary pad will not be required; the arm is simply to be steadied against the chest for three weeks. Strapping is not suitable for fixing the limbs, as it becomes loosened by the warmth of the body and is then thrown into cord-like bands; moreover, it may cause dermatitis. Non-union is apt to occur in those cases in which, on account of the fracture having followed a very slight injury, the lesion is for a time undetected, and, therefore, not effi- ciently treated. Still, non-union is rarely met with. It is most likely to implicate the tibia and fibula, and, in a lesser degree, the humerus, the femur, and the clavicle. The bones affected become atrophic, and resection of and wiring the fractured ends proves ineffectual. In the case of the leg, at any rate, amputation has reluctantly to be resorted to. In the discussion which followed the reading of Mr. D’A. Power’s paper on this subject at a meeting of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, in 1891, I showed two cases of ununited fracture which were then under my care in the Children’s Hospital, on both of which I had operated without success. One was that of John J., seven years. There was nothing to suggest either rickets or syphilis. When he was fifteen months old he fell down the area steps, injuring his left leg. He was taken three days afterwards to the Victoria Hospital, where his leg Avas put up in Avooden splints. The mother took the child home Avith her, leaving him to crawl. The splints Avere kept on for some Aveeks, after Avhich, prob- ably because the case Avas not going on Avell, he Avas secured betAveen tAvo long outside splints to prevent his using the leg. This treatment Avas carried on for about a year. The leg continued useless and bent; it Avas, therefore, straightened and secured in a Bavarian splint. No good result folloAved, and until May, 1890, Avhen the boy Avas admitted into the Great Ormond Street Hospital, he Avas getting about as best he could Avith splints and crutches. By an anterior incision I cut doAvn upon the false joint and removed the ends of the bones, together Avith much fibro-cartilaginous material, and,