308 VULVITIS. be crushed with a lithotrite, every particle being removed by the evacuator. Polypoid tumours of the bladder.—The history might begin as one of vesical irritation, then stone would be sus- pected ; the sound, or in the female the finger, may detect a strange substance, and the exploration would be followed by a further bleeding. In a boy no treatment short of suprapubic or perimeal cystotomy would be likely to avail. Digital ex- ploration through a perinseal incision should be undertaken, if only to ensure free escape of urine and debris. The tumours may be simple myxomata or sarcomata, and in either case they are likely to be growing from the trigone, multiple and pedunculated. In the female the}' may pro- trude from the meatus urinarius. Case.—A boy of six was admitted for retention of urine, a condition to which he was occasionally liable. Just before sending him into hospital his medical attendant had with difficulty introduced a catheter; when in the hospital the house surgeon also met with obstruction. On my seeing the boy, soon after admission, there was much difficulty in passing the instrument, and there was evident fulness in the perinaeum, as if from extravasation of urine. Perinseal section was per- formed. After a day or two this incision failed to afford sufficient escape for the urine, so the wound was continued on directly into the bladder. A severe outbreak of scarlet fever then occurred in the ward, and the child took infection and sank. Autopsy showed that the obstruction was caused by a sarcomatous growth from the trigone blocking the neck of the bladder. In another boy under my care the tumours could be clearly made out by rectal examination —a sure sign of malignancy; suprapubic cystotomy was performed, and gave great relief. Soon afterwards the growth sprouted through the wound, and the child eventually died exhausted. (See Targett’s “ Lectures on Sarcoma of the Bladder.”) Vulvitis is common in weakly or tuberculous children. It may be due to the presence of thread-worms which have wandered from the rectum. Sometimes it is the result of dirt, or of incontinence of urine. It may be associated with eczema of the pudenda and thighs, or with tuberculous