FAECAL FISTULA AT UMBILICUS. 270 navel may be constantly inflamed or suppurating. They may be removed by a snip ot the scissors, or their pedunculated base may be tied with a line waxed ligature. Occasionally they are so deeply placed in the cicatrix that the walls of the depression have to be held widely apart by dressing forceps betoie they can be dealt with. In every case of eczema at the umbilicus, caieful search should be made for such polypi Occasionally they are associated with urachal fistula. Fsecal fistula at the umbilicus may be the result of pro- lapsed intestine having been included in the ligature of the umbilical cord (in which case discharge is noticed within a few days of birth), or of the rupture of a strangulated umbilical hernia. A more frequent cause, however, is ulceration of the bowel, after inflammatory adhesions have attached it to the abdominal wall. The ulceration is likely to be of tuberculous origin, adhesive peritonitis guarding the general serous cavity against infection. A large abscess may precede the establishment of the fistula. The piece of intestine implicated is often the transverse colon, and on the administration of a rectal injection, some of the fluid is found escaping by the fistula. Another cause of faecal discharge at the umbilicus is the section with the cord of a pervious Mechel’s diverticulum, a duct which, early in foetal life, led from the lower end of the ileum to the interior of the umbilical vesicle; lono- before birth it should have dwindled away. This diverticulum, though not pervious to the umbilicus, often exists as a fibrous cord, beneath or around which a piece of bowel may be- come strangulated. In the case of fecal fistula occurring within a few days of birth, the opening is solitary; but when the discharge is secondary to the formation of abscess, there may be several superficial cloacte associated with a single opening into the bowel. The subjects of fiscal fistula are generally pale and ill-nourished; they must be kept at rest. The diet should be light; cod-liver oil and iron should be prescribed. When the general condition is improving, attention may be directed more definitely to the fistula, but no partial operation or cauterisation is likely to succeed. The bowels should be cleared by repeated doses of rhubarb and soda,