402 DISLOCATIONS. in which the children have come breech first into the world, but without any external assistance. It is probable that the imperfect development of the joint is the result of a vicious packing of the foetus in utero, the legs being extended on the thighs, and the thighs flexed upon the abdomen; and this would account for the luxation being so often associated with breech presentations. Dissection shows the head of the femur, though mis- shapen, enclosed within the capsular ligament (a fact which disposes of the theory of traumatic dislocation), the acetabu- lum is undeveloped, triangular, shallow, and rimless. To measure the limbs.—A simple and exact way of com- paring the length of the lower extremities in this or in any other condition is to lay the child flat upon the back, with the pelvis squared, and, having extended the knees, to bring the soles of the feet straight up towards the ceiling. The difference in the level of the malleoli is at once manifested. If, however, the limb of the affected side be fixed in a faulty posi- tion, the sound limb must be placed in an exactly similar position before attempting to estimate the amount of the shortening. The differential diagnosis is from hip-joint disease (page 411) and infantile paralysis. In the former condition the thigh is kept rigidly fixed, and any attempt at eversion of the limb is attended with pain. From the effects of infantile paralysis the diagnosis is not difficult, as, after par- alysis, the trochanters are on the same level. In “disloca- tion ” the trochanter can in most cases be thrust up and drawn down, and that without pain. This distinguishes the dislocation from rickety deformity of the femur. A third condition from which congenital dislocation has to be dis- tinguished is pseudo-hypertropliic paralysis (page 166). This is effected by the great development of the calves and deltoids, and the elevation of the heels; and also by the fact that in the pseudo-hypertrophic condition the heads of the femora and the tops of the great trochanters occupy their proper positions. Treatment.—Provided that the deformity is in an infant or a young child, an attempt should be made, after Lorenz’s bloodless method, to return the head of the femur into the