476 EES CAVUS. arched, and the muscles ol the sole of the foot were so thinly spread out beneath it as to suggest the idea that the deformity might be associated with their paralysis; but they responded in electrical examination and their substance could be made out when they were thrown into action. The plantar fascia was contracted. The heel was drawn up. The great toe, as constantly happens in talipes equinus, was in the position of dorsal extension. But on flexing the foot to the utmost, were divided, and the foot was vigorously flexed, and then enclosed in lateral splints of plaster of Paris, in a greatly improved position. After about ten days the casing was taken off and a course of massage adopted. The result proved highly satisfactory; the boy was able to run and walk without any of liis old trouble. When he was seen after some weeks of exercise, the skin beneath the head of the first metatarsal bone was no longer tender. But I must confess that subsequent experience of operations in like cases has not always been equally satisfactory. However, in every case the heel tendon must be divided and the foot wrenched into and fixed in an improved position, and, if necessary, the plantar fascia and other structures must be freely divided and the foot wrenched into a better shape. Is the talipes congenital or paralytic ?—If the mother affirms that the condition was noticed within a few days of birth, the question is answered, but the statement of the child or of some friend that it has “ always been so ” is not worth attention. In the congenital defect the muscles and the legs are often well developed and the legs are warm; but it often happens that in congenital club foot the legs are Fig. 116.—Pes Cavus, secondary to talipes equinus. and so slackening the extensor proprius hallucis, the digit came down to its proper level. Then, on again extending the foot, the first phalanx was well-nigh completely dislocated on to the back of the head of the first metatarsal bone, as shown in Fig. 116. Treatment.—The tendon of Achilles and the plantar fascia