207 ADENOIDS; OPERATION. without operation. Even at the present time it by no means follows that because a child has “vegetations” he must forthwith be operated on. The case is very similar to one of enlarged tonsils, where, we know, time, patience, and attention to general measures often obviate the necessity of operation. When, however, the obstruction is serious, the sooner that it is effectually dealt with the better ; for it is of supreme importance that the air-way be free. Meyer gave it as an axiom that a deafish child who breathes through the mouth, and has a thin, compressed nose, is affected with vegetations. Experience confirms this statement. If the passage is found greatly choked, the sooner that it is cleared out the better. Speaking from considerable experience of this disease, I must acknowledge Meyer’s discovery of it as an extremely important one. It is best to operate with the child placed upon a dressing- table, or upon a low chest of drawers. The head should be securely covered by a towel, arranged d la Turque, or by a waterproof bathing-cap, so as to prevent the blood clotting, in the hair. The arms and chest should be enshrouded in a bath-towel, and the floor should be covered with a dust-sheet, or with one or two newspapers opened out. Lastly, a basin should be placed upon the newspapers just beneath the end of the table. A toilet-pail is still better, as the blood falling into it does not splash over. For preventing the child from closing his teeth upon the operator’s finger, a small Mason’s gag ansAvers Avell. A capable anaesthetist takes charge of the gag, but one of less skill will have as much as he can manage to do in looking after the proper administration of the chloroform. In that case an assistant will be Avanted. The position of the child during operation must be such that the blood, and the fragments detached from the lacerated groAvths, cannot fall into the larynx. I prefer to have the child lying supine, Avitli the shoulders raised over a firm pilloAv, and with the head tliroAvn Avell back and hanging over the end of the table. This is the position m Avhich I have for some years been accustomed to place children Avhen operating for cleft-palate. It answers ad- mirably for both operations, as the blood thus falls doAvn