EXCISION OF EXE VI. U1 so that not a drop of blood is spilled. Thus the resulting scar is as small as it can be. The operation is prolonged and pain- ful, and demands the administration of an anaesthetic. Electrolysis causes a very limited destruction, the sloughs are gradually absorbed, and with slight risk either of ulcera- tion of the skin or of sepsis. If, in his anxiety to hurry on the cure, the surgeon is too vigorous with his treatment, slough- ing may ensue. For igni-puncture, the large blade of the thermo-cautery is made to penetrate the mass in every direction, one skin- wound often sufficing for the purpose. At once it becomes hard and it soon begins to shrivel; the eschars are detached in due course, and a healthy, granulating surface remains. For small naevi the needle-blade of a thermo-cautery answers extremely well, each vessel seen entering at the periphery being obliterated by the red-hot point. For a large naevus, electrolysis lacks the vigour and certainty possessed by the cautery, and several sittings, at intervals of a week or more, might be needed ere the groAvth is destroyed. Excision.—-Subcutaneous naevi are usually encapsuled, and may be excised by the scalpel without much bleeding. As the mass is being turned out, the bleeding vessels must be caught by the self-holding forceps. The incisions should be made through unaffected shin; and the vascular tumour having been torn out, and the bleeding points secured, the wound may be closed by sutures. In this way I have dealt with enormous nsevi which involved the entire thickness of the lips or cheek. Until the surgeon has himself excised a large nsevus he can scarcely understand how safe and satisfactory the opera- tion is (Fig. 27). The great point is to keep the scalpel well beyond the dilated vessels, and, attending to this, he can often enucleate the encapsuled, spongy mass with but a trivial loss of blood, though the bleeding would have been furious should the blade traverse the vessels of the cavernous tissue. Unfortunately, ntevi have not always a capsule, but even when they are comparatively diffuse, excision proves an excel- lent method of treatment. The bleeding is not nearly so troublesome as might have been expected, and with plenty of catch-forceps at hand, the different vessels are readily secured. Healing is usually prompt, and the scar is comparatively