195 WANDERING BASIL of course, the cicatrisation and contraction, the jaw, perhaps, being permanently fixed. Treatment.—The local remedies comprise the free ap- plication of strong nitric or carbolic acid, care being taken that the tissues be first made clean and dry, and that the o-anorenous material is first cut away. The harmful bacilli O O ” - are beyond this gangrenous mass, and they cannot be reached by the acid until the knife has been efficiently used. The operation should be performed under chloroform. The foul ulcer may be surrounded with a thick layer of vaseline, and its surface covered with carbolic acid crystals, the caustic fluid being carefully dried up as the acid deliquesces. The crystals may also be packed beneath the overhanging margin of the sore. Or the infected tissues may he effectually and precisely destroyed by the thermo-cautery at a white heat. This procedure is, I think, generally preferable to that of excising the gangrenous tissue with the scalpel. Food should be administered at short and regular intervals, and if the child cannot swallow, he should be fed by a flexible catheter introduced into the stomach through a nostril (See page 50.) Nutrient enemata may be administered. Pep- tonised beef, milk, eggs, and beef-tea, with a liberal allowance of brandy, are needed. Quinine, iron, and mineral acids are useful medicines, and opium in small and repeated doses is also of much service. No attempt should be made to improve the disfigure- ment after the sloughing until the child has acquired vigorous health, and the tissues are perfectly sound. Wandering rash.—The dorsal aspect of the tongue of a little child is liable to a slight inflammatory affection of the mucous membrane, of which the worst symptom is usually a slight itching. It is not of syphilitic origin; and it differs from a mucous patch in being flat and red—not grey. It “ wanders ” in circular patches with whitened borders, quickly changing its situation and its shape. Its pathology is as obscure as its treatment is obstinate, and fortunately it passes away in due course as quietly as it came on, and it apparently leaves the tongue none the worse for its visit. Though it resembles a “ringworm,” careful microscopic examination has failed to detect a fungus in it,