DEFORMITY AFTER EXCISION. 449 be enlarged and the bone explored and scraped. If this be unsuccessful, it is a question whether a secondary excision be performed or amputation resorted to. The former line of treatment should be undertaken only if the general health be satisfactory, and, judging from the result gained by the previous operation, if still further improvement seemed likely to be obtainable. When about to excise, the surgeon must have all matters arranged so that he may amputate if, as he proceeds, he consider the adoption of that course expedient. The intercurrence of albuminuria, tuberculous deposit in the lung, or haemoptysis, may call for immediate sacrifice of the limb. Sometimes an excision goes on well for weeks or months, and then a degenerative process supervenes which entails amputation. However well the case may do, no weight must be placed upon the limb for considerabty more than a year, lest the union yield and deformity ensue. It must be borne in mind that the child is constitutionally feeble, and that the line of operation cannot quickly become strong and trustworthy. It will be advisable to let the boy go about Avith a Thomas’s knee-splint and patten (Fig. 114). Deformity after excision is very apt to occur unless the child is carefully watched and kept off his feet. It is usually in the direction of progressive flexion, but in one of my cases it was in the opposite direction, the salient angle being back- wards, like a bird’s. Treatment.—If the uniting medium be not firm, it may gradually give way to appropriate bandaging in a Thomas’s splint; or, if too firm for this, the original wound may be opened up and the uniting material cut through; or, lastly, if the bones be solidly fused together, a wedge-shaped piece may be removed from femur or tibia, or from both bones, the line of the epiphyseal junction being avoided in the section. Each method of procedure, in appropriate circumstances, gives good results, and the prolonged and careful supervision to which the child is afterwards subjected should ensure him against further relapse. In all such cases imperfect develop- ment of the limb must be expected. (Page 413.) In domestic practice one rarely excises a knee. I have d v