FRACTURES. 392 slips from the capitellum of the humerus, a persistent dislo- cation resulting. This lesion may need resection of the displaced head of the radius. Contraction of fingers after fracture of the radius and ulna, or of the lower end of the humerus, is a rare and grave affection. The fingers, thumb, and wrist are obstinately flexed, and the hand is pronated. The sense of touch may be interfered with. The condition is especially met with where suppuration has followed the use of splints. It may be due to pressure of callus upon the ulnar or median nerve, or it may be caused by a peculiar shortening of the flexor muscles secondary to traumatic myositis. The joints them- selves are unaffected, but they are rendered rigid by con- tractures. The contractured muscles are chiefly represented by pale, fibrous material. Treatment.—Massage, douchings, and electricity may be tried, and if these measures prove inefficient—as they are apt to do—the nerves may be cut down upon and freely explored with the view of liberating them from cicatricial pressure, osseous or fibrous. If this offer no improvement, every contracted tendon must be divided from the flexor carpi radialis to the flexor carpi ulnaris, without any attempt being made to secure subsequent union. Indeed, the contraction is far too great to render simple elongation possible. I have treated one case on this method; and though I am by no means hopeful as to the ultimate usefulness of the hand and fingers, they are at least in a good position, and are promising improvement, and the lumbrical and interosseous muscles are giving excellent help in flexion of the fingers. Fig. 97 represents a forearm and hand thus deformed and rendered useless after fracture in the upper part of the radius and ulna. The child came up from a county town, where the fracture had been treated by anterior and posterior splints of wood. I was given to understand that when the splints were removed their pressure had caused the formation of a suppurating sore upon the front of the fore- arm. I know of another case in which the deformity occurred after the broken limb had been treated by gypsum splints. I cannot but think that the muscular contracture is due to the fact that more pressure has been applied than was expedient.