315 AMUSSA T’S OPERA TION. abandon to death the subject of imperforate rectum. I doubt the morality of this reasoning; I do not think we have the right to abandon a patient to certain death if we know of any means likely to save him ’ (Holmes). It no operation be performed, the child dies in great distress, unless the bowel empty itself by abscess and fiecal fistula. That a groin anus is not, after all, a dreadful condition is shown in Curling’s essay.* Speaking of a lady so afflicted, he says: “ She constantly enjoys the best health, goes into society, attends balls, and no one would suspect her to be the subject of any infirmity. She is married, has borne four children, and her pregnancies and labours have been quite normal.” Invagination of the bowel out of the Avound is apt to occur after the establishment of artificial anus, and dis- charges set up troublesome dermatitis, taxing, the resources of the medical attendant, the patience of the parents, and the endurance of the child. The greatest local cleanliness is necessary. Lint spread Avith vaseline must protect the surface, and a soft pad of carbolic tOAv in gauze should be Avorn over the opening. A reference to Fig. 66 shoAvs Iioav the rectum may open into the bladder or urethra ; either defect may demand the performance of inguinal colotomy. Sometimes the bowel opens upon the front of the perimeum through a narroAV fistulous tract, Avhich, on being laid open, may possibly lead to the establishment of an anus in the perimeum. The least serious irregularity is that in Avhich the faeces are discharged yer vaginam. If the child have control over the motions, the surgeon Avould be disinclined to attempt a plastic operation unless the introduction of a bent probe into the orifice revealed a cul-de-sac extending toAvards the normal site of the anus. Then having established a proper anus, he might endeavour to close the opening into the vagina. Prolapsus recti.—From constant straining, the mucous membrane of the anal region becomes congested and hyper- trophied, and the tissue of the submucous layer so stretched that the mucosa bulges in a dusky, annular fold outside the anus. But in other cases the muscular coat of the boAvel also * Trans, of Mcd.-Chirurg. Society, vol. xliii.