SYPHILIS. 100 through the soft palate, and deeply excavating the tonsil. She was deaf on both sides from syphilitic otitis. A gumma in the palate may quickly cause perforation, or lead to scarring about the velum. Therefore, in searching for evidence of congenital syphilis, in a doubtful case the mouth should always be examined. (See “Tuberculous Gummata,” page 62.) A gumma is simply a collection of unhealthy granulation- tissue which is undergoing quiet degeneration. When this takes place at the end of a diaphysis, the epiphysis is apt to be detached, and when it occurs in the substance of a bone it is apt to give rise to spontaneous fracture. In the former case, the junction cartilage is likely to be destroyed, and the solid bone is eventually found much shorter than its fellow. Albuminoid degeneration in hereditary syphilis may affect the liver, spleen, or kidney. These organs become considerably enlarged, and albuminuria may result. The albuminoid disease is probably caused by the irritation of some toxic material which is circulating in the blood; though as to where or how it is generated no explanation is at present forthcoming. Treatment.—The child should be equably and warmly dressed and carefully and regularly fed, and he must not be exposed to cold or wet. In fact, he should be kept in a warm, even temperature. Sunshine, fresh air, and warmth are of great therapeutic value. Mercury improves his condition as if by magic; whilst being brought under its influence he grows fat, wholesome, and contented. The drug is con- veniently administered by the skin. A piece of blue oint- ment, of about the size of a bean, is placed upon a fold of flannel, and secured by a roller to the side of the child ; the region for the inunction may be frequently changed. Fresh ointment is put on the flannel every day, and every day the child should be washed all over with soap and warm water; but the fold of flannel on which the ointment is spread should be used continuously, on account of its being saturated with the drug. This plan of treatment causes neither griping nor salivation. To treat the child by sub- cutaneous injections of mercury is highly undesirable, and to give medicine only to the mother, impracticable. If it be expedient to conceal the nature of the treatment,