296 IIYDR ONE PH ROSIE. For sounding, a female child should be in the lithotomy position and the parts thoroughly exposed; even then there may be some little delay in introducing the sound into the bladder. Holmes remarks: “ I hope it may not be imperti- nent to point out that at very early ages the vagina may he mistaken for the urethra.” This caution is extremely perti- nent. If there be any doubt, a second sound may be deliberately passed into the vagina to prove that the first has entered the bladder. Or the finger may be passed into the rectum to show that the vagina is free; or the beak of the sound may be felt for above the pubes. Digital examina- tion of the rectum should be made at the same time, as many of the symptoms of stone may arise in the rectum. If a girl be the subject of incontinence, for the cause of which repeated examinations offer no suggestion, nor medicinal treatment provides relief, it may be advisable to dilate the urethra and explore the interior of the bladder with the little finger; experience shows that the resulting paralysis is transient and is often extremely beneficial. I have resorted to it time and again, and always Avithout injury, if not Avitli success. One most inveterate case—a, girl of about nine years—com- pletely recovered Avhen, as a last resource, the urethra Avas dilated. The left index finger introduced into the bladder found nothing abnormal. Previous to introducing the finger the urethra Avas dilated by the dressing forceps. Dilatation by the use of laminaria tents is unadvisable; in a case under the care of Giraldes it Avas folloAved by tenesmus, vulvitis, and enlargement of the inguinal glands. Nor should the treat- ment by dilatation be adopted until other means have had fair trial. Prolapse of the urethra in female children is apt to be caused by the presence of a me void groAvth or a vascular- polypus, and may persist after ablation of the neoplasm. In such cases it may be necessary to reduce the redundant mucous membrane by the remoAral of some narrow, longi- tudinal slips by means of scissors or linear cauterisation. Hydronephrosis.—From congenital defect in the ureterr bladder, urethra, or prepuce, or as the result of a blood-clot blocking a ureter Avkich has been severely injured—as by