FRACTUB.ES. 390 though not detached, and that a certain amount of lateral movement is obtainable at the elbow joint. Crepitus may he detected on flexing and extending the joint, or on rotating the radius. The treatment is that just described. One of the condyles may he broken off without the joint being implicated, or the lower epiphysis being otherwise hurt. The inner condyle is specially likely to be detached, on account of its being more exposed to injury in a fall upon the elbow—it does not join the shaft of the humerus until the eighteenth year. To secure bony union of the loose internal condyle, the elbow should be flexed for a few weeks in a moulded splint. Sometimes it becomes attached to the humerus by ligamentous tissue only; but, fortunately, this faulty union entails no serious inconvenience. After a limb has been confined in absolute rest for a week, or a little less, it may be advisable to take it down for a few minutes, in order, with the utmost care and gentleness, that each joint may be judiciously exercised. In this way the early return of free movement is greatly helped. But in this manipulation and massage-there should be no disturbance of the fracture, and immediately afterwards the limb should be restored to security. If the movements give pain, they should not be persisted in; in this case there would probably be some inflammatory trouble still lurking about the joint. The surgeon thus reassures himself of the parts being in perfect apposition, and, if by chance there had been any misconception of the nature of the original lesion, the error could at this early date be easily rectified. But if weeks or months after the injury, when all thicken- ing has disappeared, the bones be found much out of place, speculative force should not be resorted to; it is better still to leave nature to effect a gradual improvement in the usefulness of the arm than to hurry in Avith operative interference. If, hoAvever, after due hesitation, little or no improvement ensue, resection may Avell be advised. Stiffness folloAving injury to a joint should not be dealt with by speculative force; the violence necessary to break down adhesions might cause disjunction of a neighbouring epiphysis. In any case it is apt to set up a serious arthritis. With fracture near the extremity of a long bone, the joint is