INFANTILE PEBIT0N1TIS. 274 usually jaundiced. Septic infection at the umbilicus may determine local gangrene—a rare and fatal condition. Multiple abscesses and other signs of pytemia occurring in the first few weeks of infancy are likely to be the result of the absorption of septic material at the umbilical scar. (See page 66.) The traditional “ scorching ” which the midwife gives to the scrap of linen is not always sufficient to render the dressing of the wounded cord aseptic; some powdered boracic acid should be dusted over the part. Laui'ent, quoting Muller, remarks that in the Moscow creche many new-born infants die every year of pyaemia. Infantile peritonitis may be secondary to septic inflam- mation of the umbilical vein; it may run its course even in foetal life, and may end fatally. In ISO cases of peritonitis in children, 102 occurred within the first fortnight, 63 in the third and fourth weeks, and 15 of the children were over a month old (Ziemssen). Later in child-life the disease is of rare occurrence, but it may be secondary to internal strangulation, tuberculosis, pyaemia, or injury. Two children have recently been under treatment for peritonitis from this last-named cause. In one the inflammation followed a fall into a brick kiln, and was associated with rupture of kidney; in the other it was caused by a blow. The former patient recovered under the influence of a restricted diet, leeches, and opium; the other was the subject of local suppuration and ot obstinate faecal fistula!. Intra-uterine peritonitis may set up so much thickening and adhesion of the bowel as to cause complete intestinal obstruction. In a case of this nature the formation of an artificial anus in the ileum gave relief, though it did not avert a fatal result (Brit. Med. Journal, 1885, page 1201). Umbilical hernia.—Early in the process of development the abdominal cavity is wide open in front; gradually, its lateral walls come forward to join along the middle line. The part Avhich is the last to be shut in is at the umbilicus, where the vessels to and from the placenta make their transit. It sometimes happens that at birth the umbilical aperture persists, covered in only by skin, superficial fascia, and peii- toneum. In such a condition, a piece of intestine is apt to make its escape, constituting a true congenital umbilical