167 TETANY. somewhat difficult. The strange gait, with weakness and unsteadiness, should direct attention to the muscles, even before hypertrophy has appeared. The diagnosis from double congenital dislocation at the hips (Chap. XXVIII.) is established by the fact that the condition was not congenital, and that it has been coming on gradually and increasingly; that the femoral heads cannot be made out in the gluteal regions, and that the great trochanters occupy their proper position as regards Nelaton’s line; that the muscles of the calves and shoulders are enlarged, and that probably the feet cannot be freely flexed. Whether the muscular degeneration be the primary con- dition is not certainly known, but treatment should be directed to the muscles themselves, and should consist in massage, stretchings, and galvanism. Possibly, in the early stage of the disease, these measures may be attended with some success. Elevation of the heel, which is apt to occur in the later stage of the disease, may demand tenotomy. Prognosis is unfavourable. The degenerative process extends to the arms, and even to the chest and abdomen, and during this final stage there is a rapid decrease in the size of the hypertrophied muscles, the child becoming too weak to stand. Death occurs before adult age from sheer prostration, or from some intercurrent affection of the respiratory organs. Tetany.—The chief feature is painful, reflex muscular spasm. It is usually in close association with rickets, and is probably due to the absorption from the alimentary canal of poisonous material resulting from decomposition of food which has been lying in a dilated stomach or unhealthy bowel. Only a very little central irritation is needed in the case of an infant to upset the balance of the feebly-organised nervous system, and so to cause reflex spasms. A few years ago many of these nervous phenomena were ascribed to dentition, but there is nothing to show that tetany is de- pendent on the eruption of the milk-teeth, though it is apt to occur when they are being erupted. It seems to me not improbable that as the diseases of malnutrition are more studied in the laboratory, ptomaines will be obtained from the alimentary canal of infantile dyspeptics which, being injected into the lower animals, will be able to produce rickets,