82 OUT-KNEE. divided, the fibula can be broken through so easily with a properly directed and sudden jerk that osteotomy of its shaft is unnecessary. But in breaking this or any other long bone, the existence of the epiphyseal cartilages must be remembered. Although the operation for genu valgum is comparatively safe, still, it must not be lightly undertaken. In connection with a fatal case, Mr. Barker wrote,* “ I have never observed such scrupulous care as in this operation ”; and in conclusion he stated that the operation is dangerous. Fatal cases occur more frequently than they are reported in the journals. I once lost a miserable child on whom I had performed supra- condylar osteotomy; and occasionally one hears incidentally of similar mishaps. Death took place within forty-eight hours, probably either from fatty embolus or septicaemia. Haemorrhage from the anastomotica magna, or some articular branch, or even from the popliteal artery itself, may cause anxiety and involve amputation, or even death. Suppuration may demand incision and drainage, and may be associated Avith Avreckage of the joint, with pyaemia, or Avith necrosis. Genu extrorsum (out-knee) is the common form of bandy leg, the thigh-bone and the leg-bones being boAved outwards, so that the knees are Avidely separated. The condition is fre- quently met Avith in heavy, rachitic children, in whom the bones happen to yield rather than the ligaments : Avhen the ligaments are the first to give Avay, genu valgum results. On account of the strong support Avhich is afforded to the outer side of the knee by the ilio-tibial band, the external lateral ligaments are competent to resist any strain Avhich they may be called upon to bear. In most cases of genu extrorsum the outward thrust of the knee is not associated Avith any altera- tion in the shape of the femoral condyles, or of the end of the diaphysis, as is the case in genu valgum ; there is an even bending throughout the entire length of the shaft. (See Lancet, 1889, p. 173.) Treatment.—Many of the remarks made in connection Avith the subject of genu valgum apply to genu extrorsum. But as the knee is displaced outwards, Avithout being itself affected, it would be incorrect to bandage the limb to a long *.Transactions Clinical Society, 1878.