429 HE SECTION. readjusted and the dressings attended to as circumstances may suggest. Opium, quinine, iron, and port wine will bo prescribed as occasion directs, and as soon as possible the patient should be got out of doors. If the skin over the back becomes sore, the child may be kept for most of the day on his face, the bed being arranged so that he may see what is going on in the room. No attempt should be made at keeping up movement of the joint. If the case succeed, the boy will eventually be going about as depicted on page 419, the joint becoming firmly synostosed. Mr. Barker has urged the early adoption of Hueter’s method of attacking the joint from the front, between the tensor fasciae femoris and the glutei on the outer side, and the sartorius and rectus on the inner. The incision is begun just below the anterior superior iliac spine, and runs downwards and inwards for three or four inches. The lower inch or so should divide only the skin; the upper two-thirds should reach the neck of the femur at once. ' The opening thus made in the capsule can be enlarged if necessary, care being taken, however, that the Y ligament is left as far as possible intact. The joint having been examined by the finger, a narrow-bladed saw or cutting forceps is introduced, and the neck of the femur divided. Then the head is extracted with sequestrum forceps, and the acetabulum, if diseased, is thoroughly scraped with a sharp spoon. Every trace of diseased synovial tissue is removed, special care being also taken to clear out abscesses communicating with the joint. All this should be done with as little damage to surrounding tissues as possible, so that none of the tuberculous debris shall be forced into the fresli-cut surfaces. When every portion of diseased tissue has been removed, the cavity is then thoroughly irrigated with zinc chloride solution (grs. 5 to fi), well dried and dressed. But when everything looks clean and fairly promising, it is advisable to close the wound entirely, without making any provision for drainage, some of the cases thus treated proving successful beyond all ex- pectation. Then if discharges collect within the tissues, the wound must be partly opened up and the blood-stained fluid allowed to escape. It is usually little more than thick