277 EXTROVERSION OF BLADDER, the viscera, and await the more complete development, or the early decease of the infant. If the case is not extreme, it may possibly lend itself to operative treatment. Ectopia cordis is the resnlt of a similar affection of the chest. Even if the infant survive, the case is little likely to invite operative interference. Hiatus or extroversion of the bladder may be found in the male or female; the deformity is not incompatible with a Iona- and useful life. Women affected with it have borne children; but as in man the condition co-exists with a urethra which is represented only by a groove upon the dorsal aspect of a rudimentary penis (epispadias), fecundation would be scarcely possible. The testes in these cases often fail to complete their descent, and the penis is small and bent up towards the abdomen. There is no malposition of the bladder, as the term extroversion would imply, but the viscus is Avide open on account of absence of its anterior wall, and of the abdominal parietes having failed to meet. The part of the bladder seen is the postero-inferior Avail, pushed forwards by the boAvels. The umbilicus is in many cases absent; the pubic symphysis also is absent, and the urine, as it trickles from the openings of the ureters, Aoavs over the groins and thighs, and causes eczema or ulceration. Being coated by the mucous membrane of the bladder, the protrusion is soft- ancl bright red. (Plate III., Fig. 2.) Treatment.—Disappointment is apt to fblloAv plastic operations; peritonitis, nephritis, pysemia, or exhaustion may bring on a fatal result; the flaps of skin Avhich have been raised and adjusted may slough, or be torn asunder in an attack of vomiting. Whatever be the procedure, too much should not be attempted on any one occasion; if onl}r the bladder can be covered in the gain Avill be very great, as some apparatus can then be arranged for keeping the clothing dry and the surface of the abdomen and thighs comfortable. As regards the age at Avhich operation should be under- taken, no definite rule can be laid doAvn; if the child be healthy at four years, there may be no reason Avhy it should not be done then. In some cases it may be advisable to turn the dissected flap Avith the skin surface towards the bladder, in others the raAv surface. In the former instance, should the