HERMAPHRODITISM. 2S7 of intra-uferine life, development lias not yet indicated to which sex the foetus shall belong. There is a rudimentary elevation for the penis or clitoris, as the case may be, and just below it is the slit-like opening of the uro-genital sinus. Later, a fold of integument is found on each side of the penis or clitoris; if the foetus be for the female sex, these folds grow into the labia majora and hide the clitoris; if for male, they join across the raphe to form the scrotum. In the female, the lips of the uro-genital canal become the nymphse ; in the male they join to enclose the urethra. Just before birth, the testes descend into the scrotum. If the develop- ment proceed from the indifferent to the highest type, a male foetus results ; and if it stop short of this, a female. A partial arrest of development may occur at any stage. A not uncommon type of hermaphroditism results when development leaves the penis without the incurved ridges below it to form the urethra, the integumental folds, though con- taining the testes, not being joined in the middle line to form the scrotum. Such a child, at the age of sixteen months, was brought that I might decide if anything could be done to improve the appearance. Those who had seen the child at birth had no doubt of its sex, and it was registered by the name of Florence Kate. The labia seemed normal; the clitoris apparently was hypertrophied, and hooded with a redundant prepuce, and beneath it opened the urethra; there was no vagina. But as I could feel the testes in the lateral integu- mental folds, the subject was declared an imperfectly de- veloped male, and the mother was advised to register him with a boy’s name. It is necessary that the sex of such a child be determined at the earliest possible moment, otherwise great disappointment or distress may be entailed. With simple hypertrophy of the clitoris to such an extent that it resembles the male organ, a careful examination of the parts, especially as regards the existence of the uterus, sets the question at rest. Sometimes it is quite impossible to say, during life, to which sex the subject belongs, but these instances are rare. In such a case one may follow the advice given by Holmes, that the child be brought up as a male, rather than expose it to the disgusting and disappointing consequences of an attempted marriage.