446 DISEASE OF TIIE KNEE JOINT. treatment of a joint somewhat advanced in tuberculosis, it is often to be resorted to in cases where disease is much less extensive. It seems specially adapted for those chronic cases of knee disease in which a joint—swollen, shining, and deformed; stiff and painful—refuses to improve under a long and carefully- conducted course of rest and of general treatment. These cases are as common as they have hitherto been troublesome and disappointing; some of them have been treated by ex- cision, whilst others have been allowed to drift until they were complicated with extensive suppuration and albuminoid disease, and until amputation held out the only chance of saving life. The great feature of the operation is that it in no way interferes with the growing ends of the bones, and that, in consequence, no great amount of shortening is to be anticipated. Mr. Wright, of Manchester, has premised that arthrectomy is applicable to cases in which treatment by real rest has failed, and when there is not such disease that removal of the whole of the extremities of the bones forming the joint is demanded. Tuberculous disease of the synovial and liga- mentous tissues, with or Avithout local lesions of bone and Avithout extensive disintegration, are the cases most suitable. After the operation the limb is to be kept absolutely fixed in moulded splints for many months ; and if at the end of that time a certain range of movement be discovered, the joint may be left to shake itself free, no manipulations being resorted to. Miller, of Edinburgh, truly says that movable knee joints after arthrectomy are apt to be got in circumstances in Avhich re- covery might be obtained by immobilising the limb. If during the performance of arthrectomy the bones are found so Avidely implicated that the crucial ligaments have to be sacrificed, a thin slice should be taken both from the femur and tibia, so that solid synostosis may ensue. In such cases arthrectomy simply means a most economical excision, Avith a thorough removal of all diseased tissue from the joint and its neighbourhood. It is hardly necessary to remark that arthrectomy is adapted for other joints than the knee; but its principles having thus been fully described, it must be unnecessary