DIPHTHERIA. 26 facts. 1 lie tuberculin craze of a few years ago should have taught a useful lesson in that respect. The antitoxin can promptly he obtained from the British Institute of Preventive Medicine, 101, Great Bussell Street, W.C.—or from their agents, Messrs. Allen and Hanburys— and the sooner that its injection is resorted to in any case the better. Whatever its therapeutic value may he, it is obviously unfair to expect much from it when it is injected into a child whose blood is already saturated by the diphthe- ritic toxins which he-has absorbed. Indeed, he may sink before the antitoxin has had sufficient time to work its effects. The effects of the antitoxin seem to be that it causes the mem- branes to loosen and peel off, that it improves the appearance and the general condition of the patient, and that it checks the spread of the disease. The injection, however, disturbs the kidney to such an extent that when, for instance, it is done in healthy children as a prophylactic, it causes albuminuria. But this, after all, would be a comparatively unimportant matter provided it be found an antidote to diphtheria. As the difficulty of breathing increases, the question ot intubation or tracheotomy (page 38) presents itself, and the sooner the operation is resorted to, the less will be the chance of inflammation of the lungs or of exhaustion impairing its success. The following are the advantages of an early recourse to the operation: The patient is better able to undergo it, the strength is preserved, more nourishment can be taken and more sleep secured ; time is gained in which, it may be hoped, the disease will have run its course, and it is not unlikely that by the re-establishment of the free entrance of air into the lungs, pulmonary complications may be averted. I recently performed laryngotomy on a lady, who had caught diphtheria from her child. A few hours after the operation she made signs for paper and pencil, and wrote, “ Such perfect bliss from suffering.” Surely the prospect of this bliss should be offered to every patient suffering from the dyspnoea of laryngeal obstruction. It is not easy to perform intubation or tracheotomy too early; it is often resorted to too late. It should be regarded as a therapeutic measure of extreme value, not as a last resource.