MECHANICAL TREATMENT. 257 The diet should be plain and easily digested, consisting for the most part of milk, with now and then some extra cream, milk-puddings, underdone or fat meat and gravy, fruit, and vegetables. The child should not be pampered, and care should be taken that the appetite is not cloyed .with cakes or sweet-stuff. Neither wine nor beer is, as a rule, required; but sometimes a little is of advantage. The mechanical treatment of spinal caries is comprised in one word, rest. Rest is best obtained by keeping the child flat on his back upon a firm and- narrow horse-hair mattress, on which, in fine weather, he may be carried on a board • into the garden, or on to a carefully-arranged spinal carriage. Phelps’s box-splint and a double Thomas’s hip-splint are also' convenient apparatus for insuring rest in the horizontal position. Under this treatment he can, nevertheless, be regu- larly taken into the open air Avithout risk of disturbing the inflamed bones. Except Avhen the disease is in the neck, the boy can be Avashed and dressed by being gently turned on one side, then on the other, Avithout being at all hurt. After careful drying, some violet poAvder may be dusted on the skin. All the clothes which he Avears as he lies in bed should be open behind, so that nothing has to be slipped over his head as he is being dressed and undressed. The bed must be carefully and smoothly made. In every case of cervical or high dorsal caries, until the acute symptoms have passed aAvay, the child should be kept lying flat, Avith only a very small pilloAV under the nape of the neclc. The head should further be steadied betAveen tAvo large sand-bags, and neither by day nor by night should he be alloAved to raise himself from the horizontal posture. As regards the length of time, it is better that the treatment be carried out for too long than too short a period; thus the risk ot abscess and of deformity is diminished to the utmost. For the child of poor patients, an excellent bed may be arranged in one of the long boxes in Avhich oranges are usually imported. Alter many months of the horizontal position, all complaints of pain, “ tightness,” and discomfort, having long ceased, the child may be fitted Avith some form of cervical collar, and may then, under close supervision, bo alloAved to sit up in bed, or even to get about a little. If I may be alloAved to a