85 COXA VARA. the child to walk, is wrong. Children do not fret when they understand that they must be kept off their feet, nor does health suffer from the enforced rest. The child should be taken out of doors as much as possible. The spinal column is probably as weak as are the tibiae, so the less he is sitting up the better. If only one leg be bowed, it should be secured to a long inside splint, so as to ensure rest (Fig. 10); the improved condition of the bones is brought about more by rest, and the adoption of general measures, than by the mechanical effect. The author had under treatment a little girl with marked bowing of each leg; one leg he treated by forcible straightening under chloroform ; the other he left alone. The child was taken totally off her feet, and at the end of a year the handiness had almost entirely disappeared from both legs, and the child had greatly improved in health. The rest which was necessary for the leg which had been forcibly straightened had brought about an equal improvement in the other. With supervision, the deformity is sure to diminish, but frequent manipulation towards a straightening may be found of service. When force is being employed, care must be taken to grasp the limb so that there is nO risk of the epiphyseal cartilages being detached. In extreme cases osteotomy may be performed, after the manner described on page. 81. Coxa vara.—The bones being soft, the weight of the body in the erect posture sometimes causes the head and neck of the femur to sink even below the level of the top of the great trochanter. The result is that the top of the trochanter rises above Nelaton’s line, and the case, seen for the first time', may suggest congenital displacement of the bone (Chap. XXVIII.); the child has a peculiar waddle. The defect may exist upon one side or upon both sides. It may be recognised by the fact of the child being markedly rachitic, by the trochanter not descending when traction is made upon the leg (as would happen in displacement), and by the fact that, on inverting the thigh, the head of the femur cannot be felt beneath the gluteal muscles. The child should be taken off his feet and treated on the lines laid down under the head of “ Rickets.” Massage will bo helpful in improving the general condition.