53 THYROTOMY. complete remission, as in laryngismus stridulus. Parker had a case of this nature in a child of four years, who had suffered for three-fourths of its life from laryngeal obstruction. There w*as insufficient voice for speech or cry ; finally, urgent dyspnoea ensued; tracheotomy was performed, the thyroid cartilage was laid open from the front, and the crop of warts cleared away. Recovery was complete, and voice was gradually developed. All cases do not prove so satisfactory. ^It is an anxious operation, and a serious ordeal for the child, the risks from shock, haemorrhage, pneumonia, and sepsis being great. For thyrotomy a preliminary tracheotomy is performed, and an exact median incision made through the thyroid cartilage and the crico-thyroid membrane. In childhood the parts are so small that probably sufficient room will not be obtained unless the cricoid be also divided. The surgeon proceeds slowly, securing each bleeding point, and making due provision that no blood passes down by the side of the tracheotomy-tube. This may conveniently be done by pack- ing the space with small pieces of sponge tied on silk. The vegetations are scraped, seared, or snipped from the region of the glottis, with as little damage to the mucous membrane as possible, and the surface is then touched with a saturated solution of chromic acid, to check oozing and to diminish the risk of the return of the growths. When the alas of the thyroid cartilage have been readjusted, the tracheal tube may be removed and the air-way through the larynx tested. The child must be watched lest respiration become suddenly embar- rassed, and the dilator and tracheotomy-tube must be handy. The operation should be performed before the child has become exhausted by dyspnoea ; and when the diagnosis has once been established the surgeon should not wait for a flesh paioxysmal attack before operating. In the very young' child there may be some difficulty in finding the lumen of the larynx, especially when the growths are abundant. , Thyrotomy may also be needed when circumstantial evi- dence of there being a foreign body impacted in the larynx is strong (page 236). After the operation the tracheal tube should be left in, lest dyspnoea suddenly occur from traumatic oedema of the glottis.