18 DIPHTHERIA. without the word; there is no such disease as “Croup.” The word merely expresses a single symptom. “ Diphtheria ” is derived from Btcjjdepa (“ leather ”), from the appearance of certain patches or skins of grey exudation upon the soft palate or pharynx. These patches may be seen on depress- ing the tongue, or even on getting a child to open the mouth in a favourable light. But it is not always easy to view a child’s throat, and much less to apply remedies to suspicious patches on the mucous membrane. When diphtheria attacks a wound, covering it with an unhealthy film, the consti- tutional effects are manifested without the throat being implicated. But such cases are, in my experience, rare. Patches in the windpipe would not be visible, though they would be associated with dyspnoea, exhaustion, and other urgent signs. “ Croup ” is the disease when diagnosed by the ear, “diphtheria” when diagnosed by the eye; but “croup” is not necessarily due to the presence of diphtheritic inflam- mation, nor is diphtheria often confined to the larynx. It has almost invariably spread thither from the pharynx. Moreover, all cases of diphtheria do not run the same course, any more than do all cases of scarlet fever. In the latter disease, we know that sometimes there is an absence of rash, and at other times there is no angina, or no marked rise of temperature. Some of the milder and more anomalous cases of diphtheria look like “ herpes of the throat ” merely, and throughout the entire course of such an attack there may be neither enlargement of cervical glands, albuminuria, nor rise of temperature. In fact, as Jacobi remarks, the con- tinuance of a low temperature with the croup-symptom points to its diphtheritic nature ; catarrhal laryngitis begins with fever. The first symptoms may supervene on exposure to wet or cold, or they may follow what was thought to be an ordinary sore throat; indeed, this is the general rule. Sometimes the diagnosis of diphtheria is masked by the presence of a septicemic rash, which may be highly suggestive of measles (especially if there be much nasal discharge), or of scarlet fever. Though it may be impossible to form a correct opinion as to the nature of the case till after the lapse of several days, strict quarantine is, of course, to be observed. The rash may appear early or late in the course of diphtheria,