310 GONORRHOEA. being made an object of harmful attention and of suggestive questioning. In certain districts of England, where superstition lingers, and charms are still believed in, the adult male is apt to be under the apprehension that the specific urethritis from which he suffers can be straightway cured by contact with a child. Gonorrhoea is not infrequently communicated in this way. If there were nothing wrong before the time of the alleged rape, and if a thick and copious discharge containing diplococci were noticed within a few days of ’ it, with much swelling and scalding, the suspicions would be grave indeed. As in adults, pyosmic arthritis may ensue. 1 The treatment will be that already described. It is well to begin with a dose of rhubarb and soda, or of castor oil. The child should be made frequently to sit in a mild, warm antiseptic solution. This should be done at least twice a day—night and morning. Being surrounded with a blanket, she may remain in the bath for fifteen or twenty minutes. A weak lotion of corrosive sublimate or Condy’s fluid may be used with a common glass syringe, a small piece of boracic lint being inserted between the labia. Absolute rest in bed is a most important element in the treatment. Aphthous vulvitis is spoken of by Sarazin as of common occurrence in hospital practice, especially in connection with measles. The parts are to be frequently washed and care- fully dried; boracic powder is to be dusted over the surface, and the labia are to be kept apart by a small tuft of boracic wool. Constitutional remedies must be employed, and the child kept in complete rest. Noma.—Noma is a gangrene of the external generative apparatus, and is of a like nature with cancrum oris. (See page 193.) It is more frequently met with in girls than boj^s; I have only on one occasion seen it involve the scrotum. It is apt to attack the child who has been reared in an atmosphere of poverty and dirt, especially if her constitution have been taxed by a recent illness such as diarrhoea, measles, or scarlatina. The fever and exhaustion associated with noma are often extreme, and it is no wonder that the miserable child who is the subject of the disease