INCONTINENCE OF URINE. 294 far from the irritable trigone. And if this do not succeed, the child may be so placed and secured in bed that his pelvis is raised high above the rest of the body, so that the urine may gravitate to the comparatively insensitive summit of the bladder. Heed must be given to the reaction which the urine has when freshly passed; if it be extremely acid, the child may be advantageously treated with a course of soda and gentian. Possibly such a child is bom with potential gout or rheumatism. If it be alkaline when freshly voided, as happened lately in a most obstinate case of incontinence, the child’s health must be improved by tonics of the mineral acids, and by change of air and diet. Or the re- action may be altered by a course of benzoic acid in doses of two, three, or five grains, in sweetened water. Too much confidence must not be placed in the use of drugs alone; still, the improvement obtained is apt to be ascribed entirely to the medicine given. Another drug of which patient trial may be made in intractable cases is morphia, in doses beginning at the twenty-fourth part of a grain; Avhether it acts through the nervous system as a stimulant or sedative, or whether it acts directly through the urinary secretion, is uncertain. The effect of a small blister of cantharides over the sacrum may also be tribd. Strychnia may act by improving the condition of the sphincter fibres at the neck of the bladder, or the tone of the tissues generally. Where the sphincter vesicas has become indolent or has lost its tone, electricity may be of service. In using the weak, continuous current a wide-faced negative electrode should be placed over the lumbo-sacral spine, whilst the other is moved over the perimeum and hypogastric region. Treatment by elastic bands or pads applied to the urethra is not to be thought of; cases are on record where unhappy children, in their anxiety to avoid wetting the bed, have tied a ligature so tightly round the root of the penis as to cause sloughing. (See page 286.) If every effort to cure the child prove disappointing, it is a consolation to the parents to learn that the trouble will certainly wear itself away. Little boys suffer from it much