171 NE TWO-MIMESIS. Neuro-mimetic, or hysterical, affection of the spine, hip, or other joint or tissue, is met with even in early childhood, and in either sex. Some of the signs of joint disease are closely imitated, but, as a rule, there is no wasting of the muscles of the limb—an early sign of joint disease. The child believes that she cannot move the limb, and she usually keeps the joints partially flexed. There is no redness or heat of the surface, nor any swelling. Sometimes it is difficult to say whether there is incipient disease or not; but it is then advisable to keep the child at rest, and the part under close supervision. Diagnosis.—If the child’s attention be directed to the “ painful ” part, and the skin be even lightly touched, she will complain; but if her attention be drawn away, as in the earnest examination of a distant part (of the chest wall, for instance), the fingers of the other hand may be thrust into the tissues which were previously so “ tender ” without the least discomfort. Neuro-mimesis invariably overacts its part. Generally, the tenderness is located in the shin. Sometimes the child affords evidence of nervous weakness. Educational over-pressure is apt to be the cause of this hysterical condition. Neuralgic pains in the mammae are apt to occur with approaching puberty. They should excite no alarm, being almost physiological. They may be relieved by belladonna liniment, or by gentle friction with oil. Laxative iron mixture may be prescribed, or some other tonic. Mastitis sometimes occurs in boys as well as in girls as puberty comes on. Mastitis neonatorum.—A few days after birth, both in boys and girls, a little milky fluid is apt to ooze from the slightly swollen breasts, and if the infant be weakly, or the nurse meddlesome, the rudimentary breast may be in- volved in acute inflammation, or even in suppuration. The treatment consists in the use of mild carbolic fomentation, and incision and scraping should abscess form. Sporadic cretinism is the myxcedema of childhood. Here is the report of a case which was recently under my care:— The child, five and a half years, but looking four years younger, had been born in Hampstead of healthy parents. She had been weaned at three years, but was still fed from the bottle. Amongst the chief clinical features were the large mouth and protruding tongue, the absence of all trace of