35 CHRONIC LARYNGITIS. the diagnosis clear; and if eventually it be found that the precautions which were adopted were superfluous, so much the better. It would be very rash to affirm that an acute laryngitis is not diphtheria, even after the rapid establishment of con- valescence. On the other hand, when on the tonsils of the child with the croup-symptom grey patches are found; or when the child rapidly sinks, even in spite of tracheotomy; or when the croup-symptom occurs in an epidemic of “ croup, diphtheria, or scariet fever, the identity of the virulent disease is only too evident. Treatment will correspond in most particulars with that advocated above. If one could say for certain that the laryngitis is not diphtheritic, strict isolation of the child would not be demanded; but this is often impossible. An apparently clear case of acute catarrhal laryngitis may show its nature by conveying infection when convalescence has set in. Amongst the most valuable remedies are calomel; emetic doses of ipecacuanha; hot, moist compresses, and leeches; intubation and tracheotomy being kept in reserve. Chronic laryngitis, which is often the result of congenital syphilis, renders the voice rough and harsh, and impedes respiration: it may give rise also to an irritating cough. Expiration, as well as inspiration, is prolonged. The attacks of dyspnoea are liable to periodical and serious exacerbations; especially are they apt to come on at night, when the cough may have something of the peculiar metallic ring. A running from the nose may be taken as evidence that the laryngeal trouble is of the simple catarrhal nature, and is, therefore, a good omen. I would offer the caution against shutting up children in the house, even though they have suffered from laryngitis. They should be kept in the open air. In bad weather they should be warmly clad, but they should go out all the same, and the neck should not be heated with a thick comforter. The child should not talk loud, nor sing, and he should be instructed to moderate his cough. A couple of leeches placed over the trachea, counter-irritation, wet compresses, emetics, steam inhalation, medicated vapours, very small doses of morphia often repeated, iron and quinine, are all useful in various phases of the disease. If the dyspnoea