27 INTUBATION. Intubation.—Recently it has been again suggested, and actually demonstrated, that the introduction of a flexible catheter through the natural air-passage may temporarily overcome a spasmodic attack of dyspnoea; but this is not a trustworthy substitute for tracheotomy. The catheter would become quickly blocked with exudation, and it could not be cleaned without constant removal, and no nurse could be entrusted with the management of such an arrangement. In Dr. O’Dwyer’s improved method a laryngeal tube of metal is used; it is introduced by raising the epiglottis Avitli the index finger. The “ introducer ” and the tubes are ex- tremely ingenious, and in America they have acquired a con- siderable reputation; and in England, also, there are many Avho have experience of the method and Avho speak well of it. As regards statistics, there is little to choose between it and tracheotomy. The tube is, hoAvever, apt to be coughed up, to slip into the trachea, or to pass into the alimentary canal; it may be choked by mucus or blocked by false membrane ; and it may prove inefficient, and have to be discarded in favour of tracheotomy. Though the tube may be found use- ful in certain cases, it is not likely to meet Avitli such Avide adoption as tracheotomy at present enjoys. In an urgent case of laryngeal diphtheria the surgeon stands in need of treatment Avhich can be depended upon to supply complete, immediate, and uninterrupted relief. These demands trache- otomy alone affords. Even Avhen about to use intubation in a serious case, the tracheotomy instruments should be in readiness. It is by no means an easy matter to extract the tube. In one of Dr. Hailes’s cases he had great difficulty in removing the tube on account of the swelling about the ary-epiglot- tic folds:—“I never had had such serious trouble before in extracting, and began to feel very anxious. The parents Avere unreasonable, and said, ‘ You put it in; take it out uoav.’ On the seventh day the last and successful attempt Avas made.” Though I am satisfied that intubation can never do for laryn- geal diphtheria all that tracheotomy is able to accomplish, still I am Avatching the progress of the bloodless method of treat- ment Avitli great interest, and Avill gladly adopt it Avhenever conviction is brought home to me.