IIYPERTROPIIIEV TONSILS. 202 of the tonsils, under chloroform if need be. It is dangerous to leave a tonsillar abscess to spontaneous evacuation. (See page 2G2.) Hypertrophied tonsils are suggestive of tuberculosis, but the condition is often met with in children who neither by heredity nor acquisition have the least trace of that disease. The tonsil is, indeed, a collection of lymphoid tissue, and, like the lymphatic glands generally, is a favourable seat for tuberculosis. The child with enlarged tonsils wears a vacant and characteristic expression. The mouth is constantly open (on account of the air being unable to enter the lungs through the obstructed naso-pharyngeal cavity), and thus the face becomes elongated ; from want of use also, the nostrils may fail to be developed. The enlargement is due to hyper- plasia of the lymphoid tissue in the gland, and may be asso- ciated with growths of a similar nature in the pharynx and also with enlarged cervical glands. Enlarged tonsils are not at all times equally conspicuous. A casual inspection of the throat may have shown them to be greatly hypertrophied, and subsequently, when the surgeon is looking at them with a view to operation, they may be scarcely visible. The explana- tion of this is that the child has probably become alarmed, and that spasmodic contraction of the stylo-pharyngei is drawing the tonsils outwards, and hiding them behind the anterior pillars of the fauces. Breathing is harsh and noisy, and the voice thick and peculiar, the pharyngeal cavity no longer acting as a sounding-board. Deglutition is impeded, and when both tonsils are enlarged, only fluid food can pass the isthmus. An attack of catarrhal inflammation of the mucous mem- brane brings the masses into actual contact, and renders immediate amputation necessary. Deafness is often associated ■ with tonsillar hypertrophy, not from an actual blocking of the opening of the Eustachian tube, but rather from a chronic thickening of the lining membrane which is continuous with that of the tonsil. The hearing does not always improve immediately after the removal of the tonsillar masses. Chronic enlargement of the tonsils is very often associated with post-nasal growths (page 206), the presence or absence of which can be easily