152 EMPYEMA. to fatal peritonitis. A spontaneous external opening is usually in the fourth or fifth space, outside the anterior middle line. Caution.—When the pus has been collecting under great tension, as is shown by the critical appearance of the child, the water-logged condition of the chest or the extreme displacement of the apex-beat, it is inadvisable to evacuate the abscess all at once, lest • the sudden alteration of the position of the heart cause fatal syncope. In such cases it is far better to withdraw by aspiration a considerable amount of the pus some hours before cutting into the abscess. I know of an instance in which neglect of this precaution entailed death of a child under operation. Suddenly to open the pleural abscess of a child who is very ill is almost to invite serious collapse. In an extreme case the surgeon must content himself with preliminary aspiration. Similarly, if empyema exists on both sides, one only should be dealt with at a time, as further explained below. The site for the operation varies in the case of an encysted empyema with the situation of the abscess, the primary exploration being made, of course, in the area of greatest dulness. But in the case of a general pleural abscess, the seat of election is just in front of the angle of the scapula, the arm being by the side. It is unnecessary to count the ribs to find out which intercostal space is about to be traversed; it will most likely be the sixth. It is not advisable to make the opening lower than this, for, as the abscess-cavity contracts upwards rather than downwards, there would be a risk of the ascending diaphragm obstructing the end of the tube. The evacuation of the cavity is not accomplished merely under the influence of gravitation; were it so, the tube should, of course, be introduced at the very lowest part; the pus is got rid of by the expansion of the lung and the ascent of the diaphragm, and partly by absorption. Before operating, the skin should be thoroughly cleansed. Chloroform should be very cautiously administered, the breathing being carefully watched, for respiration is carried on entirely by one lung. The child must not be turned upon the sound side, but may lie upon his back if he seems to