BOW-LEG. 84 to lveej} up an even circulation in the legs, Avarm stockings and woollen gaiters are advisable ; for if, when the child is being carried or Avheeled out in the open air, the legs become chilled, the nutrition of the bones suffers. Frictions in the direction of the venous and lymphatic return should be employed morning and evening, after the warm bath. If the patient be flabby, we’akly, or ill-nourished, not only the legs, but the entire body should be rubbed over with cod-liver or olive oil. Very many children Avith bent legs have been brought up on the bottle, and many of them on condensed milk or a farinaceous diet. Fresh milk, eggs, and meat should be given; but no tea, beer, or Avine must be alloAved. Bathing the legs in cold Avater is not advisable, except in the Avarmest Aveather, and not even then, unless the circulation be found sufficiently brisk to set the skin in a gloAv. Warm sea-water, natural or artificial, is a useful stimulant; but parents must be disabused of the Avidespread belief that alloAving the Aveakly child to amuse himself Avith naked feet on the sea-shore, and paddling in the shalloAv Avater, is particularly conducive to improvement. Indeed, as a rule, it is harmful, for it keeps the child’s Aveight upon his limbs, and also chills them, driving the blood to the trunk, and so causing conges- tion of the brain, lungs, or boAvels. If the treatment thus briefly sketched out be adopted, and the child be taken entirely off his feet, a steady improvement Avill set in; but if the deformity be considerable, it Avill be Avell to adopt certain accessory measures. Thus, a light wooden splint, padded on each side, may be fixed betAveen the limbs, and the legs strapped to it. The splint should be long enough to reach some inches beloAv the level of the feet, so that the child may find himself unable to stand; for it is absolute^ necessary that no Aveight be transmitted through the leg-bones (Fig. 10). To apply splints of Avood or iron, and then alloAV Fig. 10.—Simple Treatment of Bow-leg. (The splints should, of course, extend much farther downwards, so as to prevent the child from getting his feet to the ground.)