118 TUMOURS. ' . apt to grow after injury to a bone, simulating periostitis, or ostitis with a central necrosis, and errors of diagnosis in con- nection with them are of common occurrence (page 120). Case.—A girl of seven years was admitted to the Children’s Hospital for a painful and “ throbbing- ” enlargement in the head of the tibia; seven months previously she had fallen, and had cut her stocking in the fall in the exact place of the tibial enlargement. The skin was hot over the tumour, and there was a feeling of bogginess in the parts beneath. As all her trouble dated from the fall, it seemed more than probable that the swelling was inflammatory, but the diagnosis was withheld until an incision was made, when the bone-tissue was found to be replaced by a .soft, succulent growth. She made a rapid recovery after amputation in the lower third of the thigh. Myeloid sarcoma is generally found in the jaws, and in the ends of the diaphyses. It may, however, cause a central swelling in any part of a diaphysis. It is on the type of foetal red marrow. It grows slowly, and on account of the great size of its elements (giant cells) it is less disseminated by the blood-stream. The large cells are mixed with small round and spindle cells. When once a growth of this sort has been completely removed, recurrence is unlikely. A common form is epulis (eVl, upon; ovXov, gum). It is of a reddish-brown or maroon colour. Sometimes it is necessary to extract one or more of the teeth before the growth can be entirely removed. The epulis is apt to be, especially in its deeper parts, osteo-sarcoma. In a child recently under treat- ment (Plate IV., Fig. 1), the epulis had grown quickly and extensively; for its complete removal it was necessary to resect the inferior maxilla, from the front of the masseter to considerably beyond the symphysis. (See also page 190.) On making an exploratory puncture into it, the bleeding had been extremely fierce. When a myeloid sarcoma springs from the medulla, or cancellated tissue of a long bone, a smooth, ovoid expansion may take place, pulsation and “ egg- shell crackling” being distinguishable in it. The egg-shell crackling is not of common occurrence. Let it be clearly understood that the egg-shell crackling over a central sarcoma is not due to the bone being actually expanded by the growth.