SPINAL GAlilES. •268 of the spinal column which are thus taken away. In some cases of angular deformity the bodies of several adjacent vertebrae are destroyed, the parts of the spinal column being connected simply by the laminae and the articular processes which are cemented together by new osseous deposit. To perform laminectomy in such a case would be to remove most of the material on which the integrity of the column depends; and though the child might survive the operation, and even lose the paraplegia for which it was performed, he might be left with, practically, a broken back I have so often seen paraplegia due to Pott’s disease clear up under simple rest-treatment, that I am not misled by reports of “ cure ” following operation. I have seen re- covery quietly take place in children who have been sent into hospital for operation—children whose condition had been deemed hopeless unless radical measures were adopted. I am now content to keep the child flat with a weight attached to the head, as shown on page 259, and with weights drawing on the lower extremities, as shown in Chap. XXIX. Long- continued extension, patiently and efficiently carried out in this manner, offers generally the best chance of recovery. The attempt to straighten out the angular deformity of Pott’s disease by pressure made upon the back as the child lies prone was a method of treatment adopted by “ bone-setters ” of former days. It appears to me to have all the objections which attend laminectomy in such cases, and none of its advantages—fracturing the spine, it may render it useless; tearing the cord, it may involve it in myelitis, and, disturbing the carious angle, it may deter- mine recrudescence of the disease. It may cause the spine to bend or break near, but not at, the carious angle, and it may set up rarefying ostitis in vertebra which were pre- viously sound, or it may give rise to immediate compression of the cord by bone or blood. It appears to me to be a method of treatment equally imprecise and unsurgical, equally rash and speculative. This treatment is to-da) being carried on in a certain part of I ranee, and I expect that we shall eventually hear more of. I trust that ay hen the general results are published every case so treated ay ill be fully reported. Nothing should be kept back.