TUBERCULOSIS. 56 TUBERCULOSIS. Tuberculosis is an “ infective ” disease—that is to say, the micro-organisms upon which it depends may multiply within the body and give rise to a general infection. The discovery of the specific bacilli is accepted as evidence of the tuberculous nature of the affection, but a failure to dis- cover them in pathological fluids and tissues does not imply that they are absent. Indeed, my experience is that it is often extremely difficult, or even impossible, to find them in material which has been removed by surgical operation upon a child who is obviously tuberculous. The presence of the bacilli in the weakened tissue of an unhealthy child deter- mines the growth of feeble granulation-tissue which is particularly apt to break down, or to undergo caseation. These masses are sometimes spoken of as “ tuberculous gummata.” The adjectives “ strumous” and “scrofulous,” which were formerly used in connection with an inflammation of a lym- phatic gland, a joint, or a conjunctiva, implied that the subject was of an unhealthy nature, either from inheritance or surroundings, and, further, that the attack was likely to run a lingering course, and possibly to end disastrously. The words had no accurate meaning, and they no longer find a place in pathological literature. Indeed, they are quite un- worthy of it, being destitute of definite, scientific meaning. To the lay mind the word “ strumous ” was acceptable, in that it meant nothing more, perhaps, than a potential tuber- culosis, which might be warded off by timely and judicious treatment. Thus it was considered to be far more suited for domestic use than the adjective “tuberculous,” which, for pathological purposes, is the one which will be employed in this book. The adjective “tubercular” has an anatomical rather than a pathological signification. “ Scrofula ” is hope- lessly out of date; what has the sow (scrofa) to do with tuberculosis ? Tuberculous inflammation is often unassociated with pain, the skin being pale, bluish, or marbled. A great feature is that the inflammation is liable to be started by insignificant causes. Thus, a tuberculous boy sprains his knee, and the