306 8 UPRA P IT BIO LITHO TO MY. ti piece of linen, about four inches square, tlie end. of a gum- elastic tube is thrust, the linen being- firmly tied around the tube about half an inch from the end. This end is lubricated and thrust into the bladder, and the space between the tube and the petticoat stuffed with strips of lint. hen the tube is tied in position, a syringeful of iced water may be injected into the bladder, to make sure that the water-way is clear; unless actually wanted, the tube is harmful. Ihe less the wound is meddled with after the operation the better. After the operation the feet should be tied together, and the buttocks laid upon a circular air-pillow, which rests upon a bed-pan of similar form, the short, hollow handle of which is kept to the side of the cot, so that the nurse, by simply looking down it, may watch against the occurrence of bleeding, and likewise inform herself of the evacuations, without moving the boy. During the first day or two, all the urine escapes by the wound, but as its edges swell some flows along the urethra ; as the swelling subsides, the urine again escapes for a time by the wound. At the end of ten days or a fortnight all is well. From the moment that the child recovers from the effects of the chloroform he is happy and quiet, whereas he was previously anxious and irritated. The median operation is not suited for children, as the rigid structures which fill up the narrow subpubic arch do not allow of the easy passage of any but small stones. Suprapubic lithotomy.—The bladder is emptied by a silver catheter, and washed out with a warm solution of boracic acid, and as much of the fluid as the bladder will conveniently hold is left in it. The catheter is not withdrawn; a ligature is placed around the root of the penis. A thin indiarubber bag may be passed into the rectum; when gently distended with warm water, it raises the bladder into the hypogastric region and elevates its superior peritoneal fold, though this is rarely necessary. A three-inch incision is made in the middle line, ending upon the front of the symphysis. By the careful use of the dissecting forceps and director, the front of the bladder is reached; it is then seized with mouse-toothed forceps, and opened in the