INTROB VC TORY REMARKS. 6 much the better; but the child generally awakens. After the operation, and when the child has shown evidence of recovery from the narcosis, the room should be darkened and kept quiet, and he should be encouraged to have a long sleep. The stomach will not be ready for food for two or three hours; aud then only water, or a small quantity of milk and water, should be allowed. If by chance the child become alarmingly feeble during the operation, he should be held head down- wards, so that the vascular supply of the brain may be restored, artificial respiration being performed if necessary (page 47). When chloroform is to be administered, the anxious parent should be promised that nothing shall be done until the little patient is sufficiently under its influence —that any cries which may be heard will certainly not be the expression of pain. And this promise should be loyally kept. The subcutaneous injection of cocaine is, in my opinion, neither safe nor satisfactory for children. Fatal accidents in the administration of chloroform are occurring with increasing frequency. But so long as people think that chloroform is “ perfectly safe ” for children, whilst they let it drip through the saturated flannel-mask held over the open mouth, and whilst they dash it wholesale on folded towels and handkerchiefs, there is small likelihood of an improvement setting in. There is always risk in giving chloroform or any other general anaesthetic to a child. But this risk is diminished in proportion as the vapour is adminis- tered in a careful manner, and by a well-instructed person. The administrator should assure himself that the child has not a tooth so loose that it may possibly get adrift into the larynx during the anesthesia. Promises.—The surgeon 'who has received the parental sanction to any operation should never promise anything which it is not in his absolute control to fulfil. More than this, he should never undertake any operation with his hands in any way tied; he should be trusted for all. If he cannot get permission to operate on a child without giving assur- ances to the parents that there is “ no danger ” in what he proposes, or that there shall be little or no scar left, or that the child can be put to sleep with chloroform “ with perfect safety,” he had better altogether decline the case. There