242 SPINA BIFIDA. very slender, and the cyst-wall is thick and non-translucent, the diagnosis is sometimes difficult; but the fact of the tumour being congenital and in the median line, should at least make the surgeon suspicious and careful. Though the membranes are fused with the skin, the wall of the tumour may be thin, translucent, and threatening rup- ture. Sometimes it yields spontaneously, the subarachnoid fluid escaping; or the Avail may be but a thin, epiblastic membrane, through which the fluid oozes or escapes by ulceration. The wound may then close and the sac may refill and burst again, each escape of fluid being associated Avith convulsions. Such a case may end in spontaneous cure, hut far more probably in death from septic meningitis. At other times the skin is thick, leathery, and Avrinkled, translucence and fluctuation being absent. Often the de- formity is associated Avith imperfect innervation of pelvic viscera, arrested development of the lower extremities, para- plegia, or club-foot. The sac may contain no nerve cords or branches—menin- gocele. In most cases the cord or the nerves are spread over its inner surface—meningo-myelocele. In rare instances the sac is lined by the substance of the cord itself, the serous fluid being contained in the immensely dilated central canal of the cord—syringo-myelocele. This is likely to be associated with internal hydrocephalus. If the cord or the large nerves of the cauda equina be in the sac—and in most of the cases it is so —they occupy the median part, and a median dimpling of the skin indicates such an adhesion. The prognosis is extremely unfavourable. Very feAV of the subjects of spina bifida reach puberty. In many instances the child gradually sinks Avithout any active treatment having been undertaken. In others, pressure or injury causes slough- ing, when, the fluid escaping, death quickly supervenes, after septic myelitis and convulsions; or spinal meningitis, myelitis, and softening may complete the history. The same contin- gency frequently folloAvs an aspiration, puncture, ligation, or excision. On the obliteration of a spina bifida, hydrocephalus may ensue. I have seen several cases in Avliich a gradual obliteration of the sac has taken place spontaneously. As a rule, hoAvever, the sac becomes so tense and thin that a fatal