426 DOUBLE HIP-JOINT DISEASE. ankylosis supervene in an adducted position, progression would ultimately be accomplished with great inconvenience and unsightliness. This scissor-legged deformity may be partially remedied by osteotomy. (Trans. Clin. Soc., 1881.) ^ hen osteotomy or excision is performed for faulty syn- ostosis on each side, the surgeon would naturally wish to maintain a movable false joint in at least one hip. En- deavours in this direction are likely to end in disappointment, even when the hip joint is entirely resected. Excision affords the only chance of recovery in certain advanced cases. Statistics are not satisfactory; each case must be treated on its merits. No array of figures as to the results of excision influence the question ; for joints may have been excised which might have been treated less rigorously, whilst others are left uninterfered with until the child is past all surgery. Truth lies somewhere between these extremes. But truth seems more difficult of discovery in connection with the subject of excision of joints than in any other department of operative surgery, and for obvious reasons. Thus, some surgeons excise too early, and show “ good ” results—almost as good, perhaps, as if their energy had been expended'in helping Nature in working her own cure—whilst others, disliking the operation, resect too late. Lastly, the “ good results ” are more likely to be exhibited and described— as a rule, far too soon after the operation—without any attempt at submitting the child to the test of time. It sometimes happens that a child who has been becoming- daily feebler from exhausting discharge, suddenly takes a turn for the better without any operation, and convalescence is established and eventually completed. These happy in- stances are not of frequent occurrence ; but they are met with, and occasionally in those inconvenient circumstances when the surgeon has committed himself to positive state- ment that no treatment, short of excision, can avail in saving the child’s life (page 372). It is rarely wise for even a surgeon to be positive. It may be that on the child being removed from his care an abscess quietly bursts, or a sequestrum is cast off, or some tuberculous infiltration in bone under- goes caseation; and perfect rest being still maintained, and drainage provided for, under the beneficial influence