325 A B DO MINA L SEC TION. invaginated and adhering piece of bowel, because the opera- tion has been adopted “as a last resource.” Every practitioner meets with instances of intussusception, and whatever be the line of treatment adopted, most of the children have. died. The disease is well understood, and it is generally recognised with promptitude. The symptoms are characteristic. There is a severe attack of abdominal pain suddenly coming on in a child who, a few minutes before, was well and hearty; there is local tenderness, and perhaps a tumour is found in the right inguinal region; there is tenes- mus, and there is an escape of mucus or blood-stained slime from the anus. Why is the disease so fatal ? Anatomically, the slipping of a piece of bowel into a piece beyond is not in itself so serious a lesion as the acute strangu- lation of a piece of small intestine in the unyielding neck of a congenital hernial sac ; yet the child with the strangulated hernia recovers, whilst that with the intussusception dies. Suppose that the venue of the two lesions were changed, that intussusception should occur in the scrotum, and that the acute strangulation should take place inside the abdominal cavity, what would be the effect upon the relative mortality ? My opinion is that intussusception would then shoAv the better result. I believe that the results of the treatment of acute intus- susception would be far better if no subject of the lesion had ever been cured by massage and injection. Frequently after these speculative measures have been fruitlessly carried out the case is reluctantly handed over to the surgeon, who fails to reduce the intussusception because the serous layers have become firmly glued together. It is quite certain that in such circumstances inflation or injection could avail nothing; and it is equally certain that in those instances in which injection has succeeded, the surgeon could have effected the unsheathing by a cutting operation. I believe that brighter days are in store for these terrible cases. One is now constantly hearing of or seeing reports of successful operations for intussusception, and it is not unlikely that in due course the occurrence of the unmistakable symp- toms will be considered a clear indication for opening the peritoneal cavity.