427 EXCISION. of change of air and scene the unexpected improvement is inaugurated. Excision is sometimes called for to relieve the child from the constant and distressing pain associated with ulceration of cartilage and bone. In such cases the operation may afford immediate and permanent relief. Operation may also be demanded when what is left of the upper end of the femur has been displaced upon the dorsum ilii, or when permanent malposition of the limb is associated with chronic sup- puration. In the case of suppurative arthritis, when incision, scraping, and irrigation have failed to diminish the local and consti- tutional disturbance, excision is demanded. And as the pelvis in this instance is free of disease, and as the tissues sur- rounding the joint are neither saturated with inflammatory effusion nor riddled with sinuses, a favourable result may be anticipated, both as regards the rapidity of the convalescence and the ultimate usefulness of the limb. Excision is demanded also when the pus is finding its easy way into the pelvis through an ulceration in the depths of the acetabulum, as made out by digital examination through the rectum. Incipient phthisis is no contra-indication to the operation; indeed, the removal of the tuberculous bone may afford the child the only chance of triumphing over the pulmonary disease. Albuminuria, and the presence of a large, hard liver, should be taken as a suggestion rather than as a contra- indication for operation; the symptoms may entirely dis- appear after relief has been afforded to the articular disease. ■ When the patient is losing appetite, flesh, and vigour; when, from the constant absorption of toxic discharges, he is becoming pale or hectic; when his temperature chart is daily marked with lengthy ups and downs, or when bed-sores are appearing, something must be done. At least the operation ensures a free escape for discharges, and renders the socket accessible to irrigation. I have sometimes been astonished at the way children have picked up after the operation. On the other hand, it often proves more than the already exhausted