CLUB FOOT. 468 and the sole inverted—talipes equino-vams. It is a combi- nation of two defects, neither of which by itself is often met with at birth. In utero the feet are in a position of inversion and extension, enforced by the muscular walls of the uterus, in order that the space occupied by the foetus may be reduced to the smallest limit. The fact that the deformity can be perfectly cured is evidence that it is not due to defect in structure of nervous or muscular tissue.* At and soon after birth a slight amount of talipes varus is found in nearly all children. It does not require surgical treatment; it is effaced by gradual development. But if from tightness of the intra-uterine packing the twist of the foot be extreme, development during cradle-life might fail to procure its effacement; and unless the deformity were dealt with surgically, the foot and leg would remain un- developed, the os calcis being particularly small. The superior articulating surface is lengthened backwards, the neck of the bone is sloped downwards and inwards, and the tuberosity of the scaphoid is close against the internal malleolus. The inner border of the foot is drawn more upwards, and the weight of the body in progression will fall on the cuboid bone, the base of the fifth metatarsal, and the external malleolus. In these situations the skin will become hard and cornefied, bursas being developed between it and the bony projections. Occasionally there is a considerable amount of rotation of the tibia inwards, upon its vertical axis. Treatment should be begun as soon as the deformity is recognised. Sayre graphically remarks that immediately the newly-born infant has been washed the practitioner should set to work at the deformed foot. In these early days but slight force may be required to place the foot in the correct position, and that parents should be advised to post- pone all interference for a year—as they often are—is most unfortunate. A very considerable degree of inversion will in due course yield to frictions and manipulations persistently carried out by an intelligent nurse—provided they be begun in early infancy. From time to time the surgeon should Avatch the nurse at her Avork in order that he may satisfy * See Paper by Messrs. Parker and Shattock in Trans. Path. Soc., 18S4.