1IARE-LIP. 228 the lower lip, the raw surfaces being carefully adjusted by sutures upon both the dermal and the mucous aspects. After the suturing, a scrap of dry lint, but without collodion, is laid upon the wounds, and all the slack tissue of the cheeks is to be gathered up towards the middle line, and there fixed by strips of strapping extending diagonally from the malar bone to the angle of the jaw, and crossing the middle of the lip. On the morrow, chloroform may be administered, if neces- sary, and the cheeks, having been well brought forward, and steadied by the finger and thumb of a nurse, the strapping is to be removed, and the sutures which are farthest from the borders of the lips are to be taken out, the wounds being cleaned, and dressed again as before. Next day a few more of the sutures may be taken out from the front of the lip, lest, remaining too long, they should set up ulceration of the skin, and cause disfigurement; those sutures, however, Avliich are upon the dental aspect may be allowed to find their own way out. Thus within five days all the visible sutures are got away, those of horse-hair which are at the tail-end of the flap, and at the free border of the lip, being last dealt with. For a fortnight or so after this the lip is to be kept adjusted by waterproof strapping. When a wide oro-nasal fissure is partially closed by opera- tion, the breathing is necessarily embarrassed, for the child is then obliged to breathe only through the nose and mouth. A nurse must constantly guard the child from suffocation, by gently separating the lips and depressing the tongue, until he is accustomed to the change. By introducing a stiff piece of drainage-tube into each nostril, or by fixing down the lower lip by collodion, the difficulty may be got over. When after a hare-lip operation the surgeon finds that all has broken down, and that there is no chance of obtaining primary union, he should still hope for a good result by granulation; and this he will be likely to obtain by adjusting and securing the loose flaps of the lip with strapping. In one case of this nature a first-class result thus attended an opera- tion which, at any time during the first week, threatened a complete and hopeless breakdown.