INFANTILE PARALYSIS. 163 and legs have remained permanently useless. When only one group of muscles in a limb is left paralysed, deformity is produced. Thus, on the inner tibial muscles being affected, spurious talipes valgus may ensue; or, contractures occurring in the affected muscles, the deformity of equino-varus may result. Even after more or less recovery from leg-paralysis talipes equinus often persists and demands section of the Achilles tendon. Certain groups of muscles in a limb may be paralysed whilst others may be but partially affected, or may entirely escape. Favourite groups for permanent paralysis are those of the extensors of the toes and flexors of the ankle. In no case is sensation diminished ; sometimes, indeed, it is exalted. Infantile paralysis affects the loAver extremity more often than the upper, though a “ wasted arm,” or deltoid, is of no in- frequent occurrence. When the shoulder is flattened and the head of the humerus loAvered, the case looks soineAvhat like one of luxation, but the movements are all free. Atrophy quickly supervenes, not simply from Avant of exercise, but from damage to the nerves Avhich govern nutrition. The upper extremity being affected, the Avithered arm hangs useless by the side. The hand and fingers are flexed, and the elbow is extended, but not rigid. The trophic nerves being damaged, the bones and joints, as Avell as the muscles, fail to be developed, and the limb becomes flail-like. The excito- motory loop being broken, on account of the damage to the ganglionic cells, the reflexes are abolished, and the affected muscles cease to respond to the interrupted current, though, for a time at least, they give an excessive response to the continuous current. Intractable ulcers are apt to occur from slight pressure on the Avasted limb, especially in cold Aveather, and the skin appears blue and ill-nourished. Prognosis.—After the explosion in the grey matter, the alarm is often great; the case is, liOAvever, almost sure to improve up to a certain extent. The transient paralysis is explained by the attack of myelitis having been arrested before serious damage had been caused. As regards the prospect of ultimate recovery, information may be obtained by noting the gradual return of contraction under the interrupted current. If, under stimulus, the