368 ACUTE SEPTIC DIAPBYSITIS. more diaphyses than one are affected, and it points to the pysemic nature of the affection. At the moment of writing I have under my care a boy whose primary point of attack was the lower end of the left ulnar diaphysis; then followed in quick succession the lower end of each tibia and the hinder end of the calcanean diaphysis. From each site a sequestrum has been removed, and the child is now doing well, but many children succumb to the acute toxaemia before the pyaemic ostitis has had time to establish such widespread disease. And I can well understand that if a practitioner has never previously met with one of these fulminating cases he might easily fail in his interpretation of the clinical symptoms. Treatment.—Immediately the limb should be thoroughly cleansed, for the presence of foulness within must not be taken as rendering external asepsis superfluous. Under an anaesthetic, a free incision should be made down upon the bone. Assuming that this reveals suppuration, the surgeon should freely open up the cavity and wash it out with a hot solution of mercuric perchloride—one in two thousand. Then he should see what extent of the diaphysis is bare; and he may be quite sure of this, that the length of bone denuded is not equal in extent to that in which the vessels are in a condition of septic thrombosis. If the chief part of the diaphysis be bare both in length and circumference, the probability is that that piece will necrose bodily. But it may not do so, especially if the tension has been quickly relieved. I have met Avith an instance in which I could pass a probe completely round the bare tibial diaphysis of a boy in a considerable extent of its length; yet, after thorough irrigation and drainage, the periosteum became again adherent, and no necrosis supervened. Cases differ in their intensity, and in the amount of necrosis Avhich ensues. If, on opening the abscess, the diaphysis be found denuded of periosteum, and one end be detached from the epiphysis by suppuration, there is little chance of its surviving. It is better, then, to resect the denuded part of the bone forth- Avith, and to hope for the regeneration of a diaphysis from the periosteum. And such an occurrence is by no means unlikely.