TUBERCULOSIS OF BONE. 59 ' sclerosed and expanded. Sucli a case is apt to be taken for one of myeloid sarcoma (page 118). W ithout needless delay the enlarged bone should be cut down upon, trephined and explored, the object of search being a central sequestrum, or the opening up of a definite abscess cavity. Even if myeloid sarcoma has been diagnosed, a cut should be made into the mass, so that there may be no risk of a superfluous and calamitous amputation being resorted to. When tuberculous inflammation attacks the lower end of the femur, it is apt' to determine necrosis of that triangular piece of the bone which helps to form the floor of the popliteal space. As a rule, this is associated with the forma- tion of a certain amount of pus ; so that, as soon as abscess threatens, an incision should be made in the groove between the tendon of the biceps and the ilio-tibial band, and the popliteal surface of the femur should be explored with the finger. One is thus enabled to detect an opening into the diaphysis or epiphysis close to the junction-cartilage, and, on enlarging the opening, may have the good fortune to extract a central se- questrum. Many a joint has been lost because the surgeon has neglected to make an opening into a bone, the articular end of which was in a con- dition of tuberculous inflammation, or was irritated by the presence of a central sequestrum or abscess. With- out help, a sequestrum is quite likely to escape into, or wreck, the joint. In Fig. 4 is represented the vertical section of the lower end of a femoral diaphysis which has been enlarged by chronic irritation set up by the pre- sence of a central tuberculous abscess. The enlargement is not caused by tuberculous ostitis (for that would be tion); it is an osteo-plastic process. which the bacilli tuberculosis worked their destructive in- fluence was limited to that of the abscess and sequestrum, which are well shown in the wood-cut. Fig. 4.—Central Necrosis the Result of Tuberculous Epiphysitis. (From Mu- seum of St. Mary's Hos- pital. ) a rarefying inflamma- The area of bone in