455 EXCISION. enlarged: the forearm is partially Hexed, and more than half way pronated; the skin is flushed and hot; there are com- plaints of pain and tenderness, and of disturbed nights, and the muscles are greatly wasted (page 412). The cause of the synovitis may be wet, cold, or injury, delicate children being the more likely to suffer. The fashion of making little children wear low frocks and short sleeves, regardless of weather, is prejudicial. Inflammation running a chronic course is almost certainly tuberculous. Treatment. — If the inflammation be slight, the limb should be evenly enclosed in plaster-of-Pans splints. Or the elbow may be firmly bandaged and fixed to a light splint; or a plastic splint may be moulded on as shown in Fig. 93, the elbow being fixed at a right angle, lest disease end, perchance, in ankylosis. Slight synovial effusion must invariably be treated with precision from the earliest moment. If suppuration occur in the joint the abscess must be laid open and the joint washed out. The elbow should then be surrounded with wood wool dressings, and evenly compressed between moulded splints. But if in spite of rest, tonic treatment, and change of air, fluid continue to escape, thorough exploration should be made, all carious surfaces and flabby granulation-tissue being scraped away, and irrigation being- performed with a zinc chloride lotion. Excision.—Before the anaesthetic is administered the arm is thoroughly washed with soap and water, and with an antiseptic lotion. Esmarch’s band should not be applied, on account of the troublesome oozing Avhich takes place on its removal; all bleeding vessels should be secured as the operation progresses. With a short-bladed scalpel a median incision is made down to the humerus, the olecranon process, and the upper end of the posterior border of the ulna. The thinner the arm and the less swollen the elbow, the shorter may this incision be. A raspatory is used for separating the periosteum, and with it much of the muscular and ligamentous fibres. The attachment of the triceps to the olecranon process requires the knife, hut the fibrous expansion from it to the deep fascia at the back of the forearm must be jealously guarded: much of the future power of extension will depend upon its