430 HIP-JOINT DISEASE. odourless serum. It exudes in very small quantity, and ought never to become truly purulent. But when the micro-organisms of pus, as well as those of tuberculosis, have taken possession of the joint, it is unlikely that primary union will follow the clearing out of the cavity and the suturing of the wound. Nevertheless, even in these circumstances permanent closure of the cavity should be adopted—it can hut fail, and if it fail, drainage can then be resorted to. When examining an old-standing case of hip-joint disease, the points to which particular attention should be directed are the aspect of the patient, the size of the liver, and the state of the urine. Another matter to which the surgeon pays particular attention is the condition of the pelvis. Suppuration may extend very quietly, and without obser- vation, from the interior of the acetabulum, through the Y-shaped piece of cartilage into the pelvis, and it is only by digital examination through the rectum that the surgeon can learn the progress which the disease is making in that direction. In one case of resection for tuberculous disease of the femur the interior of the head and neck came away as soft as fresh mortar, leaving the articular layer of the head, and the incrustation cartilage securely lodged in the ace- tabulum. The simulation of acetabular disease was perfect, and it was only at the post-mortem examination that it was discovered that the acetabulum was unaffected. If, after the excision, the wound continue to discharge profusely, and the child do not emerge from the retrogressive course; if the albuminuria persist and appetite fail, or the shaft of the femur become swollen or tender, as the result of chronic osteomyelitis, a still further chance may be afforded by amputation of the thigh. One is always loth to amputate, but this is certainly the only treatment for many of these old-standing cases. If one watches and waits too long, the child is at last carried away with what the old pathologists called “ colliquative ” suppuration or diarrhoea. The cause of the enlargement of the liver and of the albuminuria is albuminoid disease, or, as it is incorrectly