“ SCURYY” RICKETS. 72 bruised. Haemorrhages may also occur into the kidney or bladder; beneath the periosteum of the femur, tibia, or other bone; into the joints, the skin, the conjunctiva, or other mucous membrane, or amongst the muscles. I have seen an enormous extravasation between the gastrocnemius and soleus, and in the -case of an infant of eleven months there were capillary ecchymoses beneath each lower eyelid and into the vaccination scar. But I have met Avith several cases in private practice in which, though there has been considerable swelling of a leg or thigh, the gums have been apparently healthy. The gums should always be examined. The infant Avith sub-periosteal haemorrhage lies moaning, and he cries out when the SAVollen limb, generally the leg or thigh, is handled; the disease being sometimes mistaken for rheumatism or periostitis. When a limb is peculiarly tender, and there is no history of the infant having met with an acci- dent, and no other suggestive cause, the question of incipient “scurvy” rickets must be considered. The child looks ex- tremely ill; the skin is conspicuously pale, and glazed from tension beneath, and the limb is too heavy and too painful for the child to move it. Thei SAvelling, which has come on sud- denly, extends around the limb, and usually gives no sign of fluctuation. The skin of the foot may be glazed and oedema- tons, and the child dreads being disturbed. Sometimes the effusion—into the knee-joints, for instance—conies on after a fall or other hurt, and may thus be taken for sero-synovial fluid. But the absence of heat and redness over the joint should make the surgeon suspicious. I have known the disease taken for “ rheumatism ” in a case Avhere both knees, in a boy of three and a half years, Avere distended. But the absence of a high temperature should have guarded one against this error in diagnosis. Briefly, I Avould put the diagnostic points thus :—A glazed, SAVollen, motionless, and tender limb in a pale, rickety child, who has been brought up on patent foods and sterilised milk. The child is very likely to be the subject of gastric catarrh and chronic dyspepsia, and perhaps “ everything ” in the nature of advertised food has been ineffectively tried. The disease is a rare one, and its diagnosis is very likely to b overlooked.