265 BILA TER A L ABSCESSES. carbolic lotion) is a very suitable fluid for irrigation; tlie sublimate solution of 1 in 4,000 is not devoid of danger. The most convenient dressings are bulky pads of wood-wool, or sterilised gauze, fixed under a towel tightly pinned as a binder. With reference to the irrigation of cavities from which tuberculous matter has been removed, sterilised water answers perfectly well, and its employment has this great advantage—that it does not irritate the denuded Avails which the surgeon is about to bring together by firm compression applied to the exterior. The scraping and swabbing of the interior of the cavity must be done very thoroughly, and if the cavity be a large one the operation takes a considerable time. After the flushings, the cavity must be thoroughly dried, and it is hardly necessary to say that the surgeon must be careful not to leave a SAvab or part of one behind him. Mr. Templeton, the Surgical Registrar at the Children’s Hospital, seals up the Avound (after suturing it) Avith a little piece of gauze and collodion. Bilateral abscesses should be evacuated simultaneously ; they are likely to be in intercommunication by a narroAV passage betAveen the anterior common ligament and the carious vertebrae. A certain amount of deformity must be expected to folloAV even the successful treatment of spinal caries, though in some cases the amount is insignificant, especially Avhere the treatment has been begun early and carried out thoroughly. Sometimes the resulting deformity is an abnormal straight- ness, as in the neck or loins; sometimes, as in the dorsal region, it is angular. By “cure,” one means a falling together and consolidation of the diseased bodies. If a projection have been formed along the backbone, no treatment can obliterate it. Complications of spinal caries may come on Avith or without the formation of abscess. First among them may be mentioned paralysis, from pressure upon the cord, either by the bodies of the vertebra, or by inflammatory thickening (pachymeningitis). The front of the cord being pressed upon, or in a condition of secondary myelitis, paralysis only as regards motion results. With reference to the use of sus- pension in the treatment of paralysis, I Avill not go so far