187 RANULA. Macrostoma congenitum is the opposite condition to that last mentioned, the comers of the mouth being extended through the cheek, and towards the angle of the jaw. The defect may he traced to arrest of union be- tween the maxillary process and the man- dibular arch (Fig. 40); it is likely to be associated with imperfect growth of the lower jaw, or even of the brain. Macrostoma must be treated by paring and suturing. Errors of development in connection with the branchial arches are said to be more fre- quently met with in girls than in boys ; hare-lip, on the other hand, is more often seen in boys. Orbital fissure and dermoids.—The figure on page 186 shows that between the lateral frontal plate from which the ala of the nose is developed, and the superior maxil- lary plate, from which the lateral part of the lip is formed, a fissure runs upwards and outwards towards the eye—the orbital cleft. It is effaced by the blending of the frontal and maxillary plates. In rare instances this cleft fails to be obliterated. Enclosure within the cleft of a fragment of epiblast is apt to produce one form of orbital dermoid. It may produce epidermal scales, which, locked within the juicy tissues, remain succulent, or, undergoing fatty degeneration, produce a pultaceous mass. Sometimes the isolated scrap expends its energy in growing hair, which it carefully coils up in its interior. Ranula is a cystic tumour in the sublingual region. It causes a bluish and translucent bulging of the mucous membrane; it is quite soft. It has ordinarily no association with the salivary duct; it is a collection of mucus in one of the follicular glands. The glairy fluid which escapes on puncture of the c}rst is mucus, not saliva. In fact, ranula is a simple retention-cyst, perhaps in the Blandin-Nuhn gland. Simple puncture of the cyst rarely suffices for its per- manent obliteration. Nor does it always answer to snip out a piece of the cyst wall; for, the cyst being emptied, the * After J. H. Morgan ; Trans. Med.-Chir. Soc., vol. xlv. Fig. 40. — Large Moutli. Pendu- lous growths near ear.*