104 ENLARGEMENT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. that child whose lymphatic tissues have been already pre- pared for destructive disease by a tuberculous taint or by a prejudicial environment. Ihe cervical glands are much exposed, and are connected with mucous membranes which contain abundant lymphoid material and are very prone to inflammation and ulceration. Particularly is this the case with glands in association with the tonsils, pharynx, mouth, and nares; and when one of these areas is attacked the glands are quickly enlarged. Amongst the local causes of enlargement are pediculi, scalp-wounds, eczema and impetigo, otorrhoea, carious teeth, sore throat, adenoids, and hypertrophied and inflamed tonsils, and, as already sug- gested, the poisonous exhalations from insanitary closets, foul drains, or dust-bins. The chief constitutional causes are tuberculosis, and the debility after measles, scarlet fever, or influenza. In the former cases the enlargement may have been determined by the ulceration of the throat and tonsils. Decayed teeth should be looked for; the importance of this examination can hardly be over-estimated. Children have such a dread of dental surgery that they often deny that a tooth has ever ached, lest the admission of the fact should entail extraction. A carious spot in a tooth of the first set, if the glands of the neck on that side be enlarged, demands immediate extraction of the tooth, even though it have never ached—for irritation may be set up in the alveolar lymphatics, sufficient to cause glandular enlargement and even abscess, although there may have been no actual pain with the tooth. In this and in similar cases the glandular trouble is started by the entrance of septic micro-organisms, the abscess not being, at any rate at first, of a tuberculous nature ; the septic inflam- mation, however, prepares the tissue for the invasion of the bacilli, so that the inflammation readily becomes tuberculous. A child prone to glandular enlargement should not be allowed to run the risk of a lymphatic irritation, which may at any time be started by the presence of a tooth of question- able integrity. A tooth of the permanent set which may be irritating the peripheral lymphatics must be dealt with accord- ing to circumstances, but it is inexpedient to temporise with a serious offender.