Ill EXCISION OF TUBERCULOUS GLANDS. which lie at a considerable distance may usually be reached. Thus the finger and forceps may work beneath the sterno- mastoid from the base of the skull to the submaxillary, to the thyroid, and even to the clavicular regions. On only one occasion have I had to divide the sterno-mastoid in order that I might effectually deal with enlarged glands beneath it; this is rarely needed, as it can usually be raised and drawn aside. Sometimes it is better to make several in- cisions rather than to attempt too much through the one wound. The internal jugular vein is the chief structure which causes anxiety. Indeed, after dislodging a gland, a con- siderable extent of the dusky and bulging vessel is often exposed, and might by chance be mistaken for a gland. In a considerable number of cases wounding of the vein is inevitable. The hemorrhage must be provisionally controlled by prompt and firm pressure in the wound itself, and also beneath the mastoid process, and then the vessel must be thoroughly exposed. It is highly expedient, therefore, that the surgeon be not without competent assistance during the operation. In children the internal jugular vein appears large out of all proportion, and if, when the surgeon is removing a tuber- culous mass from its neighbourhood, the vein is wounded, the rush of blood may be truly alarming. It has occurred in my own practice on several occasions, and twice when I was operating in private houses and was “ short-handed.” Given the case of a small child, with a large rent in a swollen jugular vein, an untried anaesthetist, and a strange or an unhandy assistant, and I know of no surgical position more embarrassing. In thus calling attention to a complication which may arise in these operations, I would like to offer a word of caution to practitioners who, not being in the habit of operating, lightly undertake the clearing away of a mass of glands from a child’s neck. For although there is nothing of the nature of “ specialism ” in the operation, and, although it may prove a perfectly simple affair, and produce the most satisfactory result, it may, on the other hand, involve the surgeon in an exceedingly unwelcome and alarming predicament.