284 CIRCUMCISION. fixed by catch-forceps. Then, lest the glans be injured, the prepuce is to be drawn forwards and held between the blades of the ring dressing-forceps, and the redundant skin cut off by a sharp scalpel—which bruises the tissues less than scissors. The section should be made downwards and forwards so as to avoid the artery of the frsenum. The mucous membrane covering, or perhaps adherent to the glans, is not implicated in this cut; so that, to complete the operation, it is necessary to tear it up along the dorsal aspect by the nails, or by two pairs of dissecting forceps. All adhesions between the prepuce and glans must be torn through, and the mucous membrane reflected, though it is rarely necessary to remove any of it. It should be turned back and stitched to the skin- wound by four or six sutures of fine silk, one of these sutures being passed beneath the dorsal vein and another through the tramum. I always use sutures; they obviate the risk of haemorrhage and promote rapid healing. The preputial stump being drawn back so as to prevent recurrence of the adhesions, a strip of dry lint—not mercuric wool, as it is apt to cause irritation—is lightly wound round the end of the penis, behind the glans — so as to keep back the prepuce. Last of all, the indiarubber band is taken off. The bleeding, as a rule, merely suffices to cause the dressing to adhere to the wound. If no bed-cradle be at hand for keeping off pres- sure of the bed-clothes, an ordinary willow-shaving hat-box will answer the purpose when the bottom has been knocked out, the remainder being made to encircle the pelvis. The child’s feet should be tied together. If he be unable to pass water, he will probably succeed if he be seated in a basin of warm water. The dressing may be allowed to come off as it may, and the sutures, being fine and not deeply inserted, may be left to work out. Thus the child has no trouble with subsequent dressings, nor is he worried by superfluous attention. Fallacies.—Circumcision is often badly done; very often too little of the prepuce is taken away, and the operation has to be repeated, much to the annoyance of all concerned. Then, not enough care is paid to breaking down adhesions, and unless this be done all the smegma cannot be cleared away, so irritation continues, and a supplementary operation