SARCOMA OF TESTIS. subside. I have no experience of resection of the vesicula seminalis. On one occasion, when I was removing the testis for tuberculous disease, a piece of omentum, which happened to protrude through the open funicular process of peri- toneum, Avas found to be thickly studded with tuberculous nodules. This was the first indication of the boy being also the subject of tuberculous peritonitis, though other symp- toms were manifested subsequently. This boy has been for some years since under supervision, and he has apparently triumphed over his disease. Syphilitic orchitis is a rare manifestation of hereditary taint. Both glands may be affected, the swelling being for the most part even, regular, and confined to the body of the testis. This condition is much more likely to be associated with hydrocele than is the tuberculous disease. The treatment which is found invariably successful is mercurial inunction. Small doses of iodide of potassium, or of iodide of iron, might be also given. Sarcoma of the testis is not of infrequent occurrence. When the testis is growing rapidly into a large, ovoid, firm, and comparatively painless mass, sarcoma must be suspected. The vas deferens is not enlarged ; the heavy mass drags itself downwards, and the abdominal ring is clear. The abdomen should be examined for enlarged lumbar glands. The diagnosis may be obscured by some hydrocele. Explora- tory puncture is useful in confirming diagnosis; it can do no harm, if a drop or two of blood escape. (See last page.) If the disease be allowed to run its course, the scrotum becomes involved, and a fungating mass starts through the sloughing skin, the child wasting rapidly and dying exhausted. Early removal offers the best hope of recovery, but even this treatment often disappoints, deposits being usually found post mortem in the lumbar glands, or in the lungs, or in some other viscus. The child who has been previously pale and fretful, who has been losing appetite and getting thinner, may at once improve when the diseased gland is removed. Delay affords time for secondary implication of the lumbar lymphatic glands, which may then almost fill the abdominal cavity.