164 INFANTILE LARA LYSIS. contraction can be excited, even though the atrophy be extreme, recovery may be looked for. For some days, or even weeks, it is better not to express any definite opinion regarding future restoration, but merely to look forward with hope for im- provement. In the case of paralysis in the thigh and leg, it is an excellent augury when patellar tendon-reflex persists, as this shows that the bi-polar cells in a very important region of the cord have escaped wreckage. The impairment of nutrition with which the central lesion affects the limbs renders the long bones liable to fracture; but even then union occurs in due course, provided the limb be kept absolutely quiet. The differential diagnosis is not always easy, and in the earliest hours it may be quite impossible to give a positive opinion. In the obscure illnesses of children the practitioner must always speak Avith caution, and, while taking care not to give unnecessary alarm, he must hold himself prepared for contingencies. Certainly, he should not rest content with the suggestion that the illness may be merely a passing effect of “ teething.” The tenderness which lingers about the limb is apt to mislead :—An infant of fifteen months Avas brought for treatment on account of “ hip-joint disease.” Some months preAnously she had had an attack of “ bilious fever,” evi- dently Avith pains in the head. She did not move the left loAver limb, and cried Avhen it Avas even gently handled. On carefully rotating the thigh, so as gently to rub the head of the femur in the acetabulum, no signs of distress Avere evinced. There Avas no fulness in the fold of the groin, nor Avas there any flexion of the limb. (Chap. XXIX.) Infantile paralysis Avas therefore diagnosed, and after a feAv Aveeks she Avas able to walk a little, though she still dragged the limb. (With hip-joint disease the limb Avould have been advanced, not dragged.) A younger brother of this child subsequently came under my care for infantile paralysis; and in another instance tAvo children in a family have been under my treat- ment for this disease. (For “ Reaction of degeneration,” see preceding page.) Treatment.—The gums may be inspected, and the boAvels -cleared by a dose of rhubarb and soda, or grey poAvder. The fretful child must be nursed, Avatched, and kept A?arm ; it may not be expedient to confine him to bed. Small doses of