225 OPERATION. upon the sutures as to spoil the chance of primary union. In some cases the muco-periosteal covering of the bone may be left though the bone is taken away. When the labial flaps have been thus freely detached, the incisions are planned for obtaining the raw edges. By the old method, this was effected by dissecting away the mucous membrane from each side of the gap. But this plan wastes valuable tissue; and, when the raw surfaces are drawn together, a triangular notch remains permanently at the margin of the lip. By the method of operating which I recommend, the mucous membrane is economically yet sufficiently removed from one side of the cleft and from along a good deal of the free border of the same side of the lip, whilst from the other side a very bold flap is cut, tapering off to the top of the cleft; this is then brought across and laid along the denuded border of the lip upon the other side. Thus its thickest part forms a prolabium, whilst that which Avas previously the red, mucous border of the vertical cleft, becomes the free, horizontal border at the bottom of the obliterated fissure as Avell as of the opposite margin of the lip. The piece thus brought across is not to be a mere paring: it is a thick, wedge-shaped flap which is boldly tilted doAvn, so as to leave a firm gap into which the opposite side of the lip, which has already been denuded in its vertical and horizontal borders, may be dovetailed. Thus the scar, being deflected outAvards, may escape attention—at any rate it will be less conspicuous as it tails off toAvards the corner of the mouth. If the sides of the lip be Avell compressed, very little blood is lost; but if the assistant cannot be relied upon for com- pression, the ends of the coronary artery may be caught, and held by means of pressure-forceps. During the progress of the operation blood is kept from floAving into the mouth by the use of torn sponge. The pieces should not get adrift into the mouth; they must be secured in catch-forceps. In Fig. 51, the left side of the lip being the more suitable for supplying the prolabial flap, the incision would be made downwards and outwards in its substance, beginning right up in the nostrils, as shoAvn by the line A B. The right side of the lip having had its mucous membrane