424 IT]1‘.JOINT DISEASE. Tuberculous meningitis is a not uncommon ending of the disease (page 65). Permanent shortening of the limb may follow even the most skilful treatment of the disease. There may have been no abscess during the months or years of absolute rest, yet the diseased limb is shortened by as much as one, two, or three inches. As explained by reference to Plate V., the shortening is due to the following causes:—Actual absorption of tissues in the haunch-bone as well as in the head and neck of the femur, destruction of temporary cartilage in both bones with, as a result, premature consolidation and dwarfing, trophic changes, as described on page 412. These trophic changes extend through the entire limb ; the bones arc slender and liable to fracture ; the femur, as seen in Furneaux Jordan’s amputation' (page 431), is divided by a mere stroke or two of the saw; the main arteries are small, and the amount of blood in the cut tissues is insignificant. Some- times the shortening is associated with inversion of the limb. The possible occurrence of deformity should be thoroughly recognised at the outset of treatment, lest disap- pointment or even unjust reproach be entailed. The original of the interesting print (Plate Y.) was taken by Dr. John Macintyre, of Glasgow, from a boy Avith advanced hip-joint disease. On the sound side (to the spectator’s right) the line of the temporary cartilage is shown in the floor of the acetabulum, and the rim of permanent cartilage, the cotyloid ligament, is also seen. There is, moreover, a faint trace of the layer of cartilage joining the head of the femur Avith the diaphysis. The outlines of the neck and of the great trochanter are very definite. On the affected side the Y-shaped cartilage and the cotyloid ligament have been entirely destroyed by the growth of granulation-tissue, Avhich has also caused absorption of the head and most of the neck of the femur. The result of this femoral absorption is that the great trochanter is inconspicuous, and that it is considerably raised above the normal level. The destruction of the Y-shaped cartilage has determined a premature consolidation of the os innominatum, Avhich is seen to be considerably smaller and shorter than its felloAV. The long-standing articular disease has, moreover,