11 FOOD; FEEDING-DOTTLE3- Food, etc.—Human milk is tlie proper food for babies, and they should have nothing else. But if that cannot be got, or if it prove insufficient, fresh cow’s milk is the next best food. The bottle should be filled with a mixture of cow’s milk and hot water, in which a lump of white sugar and a very small pinch of salt have been dissolved. For the first few months there should be more Avater than milk— perhaps twice as much water as milk; as the infant thrives the proportion of milk may be gradually increased. No other food should be given before the sixth month ; baked flour, arrowroot, and oatmeal cannot yet be digested, and they are apt to cause sickness and diarrhoea. Milk for the nursery should first be boiled, as the curds formed during digestion are thus rendered less hard and massive, Avhilst the risk of any infection being conveyed by the milk is greatly diminished. It is not desirable that the milk come always from the one cow. For the first month a baby should be fed every tAvo hours, and, by gradually increasing the interval, he is in time fed every three, and eventual^ every four, hours. He should not be fed because he cries ; very likely he is in pain because his stomach is already overloaded. When he is sick, he should be fed for a less time, and at shorter intervals, and if the bottle is being used, a larger proportion of water should be put in it. If a fair sleeper, he should be Avoke up lor his regular meals. A tablespoonful of lime water may be added to each bottleful of food, especially in summer. Feeding-Bottles.—The best kind of bottle is the old- fashioned, long, straight one, Avith a short indiarubber teat, and Avith no tube. It is often called the slipper bottle, and its neck is fitted Avith a large glass stopper Avhich has a Avater- tigh.t screw. The Avorst kind is that Avith the long india- rubber tube; the Alexandra I think it is called. There should be tAvo bottles, one for day and one for night. After use, the bottle should be washed in hot water, in Avhich a little soda has been dissolved, and should then be rinsed in cold Avater. Till next avanted it should be kept in a basin of clean cold Avater. A hen six months old, the baby may be alloAved, in addition to milk, boiled bread and milk, oatmeal, baker’s