KNOCK-KNEE. 76 the great gluteus is very tight along the front of the biceps tendon ; but the ilio-tibial band has no concern with the actual production of deformity. To obtain a record of the amount of deformity, the child should be seated upon the table, with his legs fully extended, and the patellae directed upwards. A sheet of paper, large enough to reach from the ankles to above the knees, is placed beneath them, and by a pencil, held upright, a tracing of the limbs is taken. The distance between the ankles may be noted in inches. Even when deformity is but little marked, the child may complain of pain in the legs and knees, especially after much standing' or exercise. Sometimes there is tenderness over the inner side of the knees. These pains are occasionally mistaken for chronic rheumatism ; sometimes they are called “ growing-pains.” They are the result of strain of ligaments, and of irregular pressure upon delicate bone tissue. Treatment.—The child must be taken absolutely and completely off his feet for a while, and his general health must be improved, as described under the head of “ Rickets (page 70). Apparatus should be supplied with a view entirely to prevent, not to assist,, the child walking (Fig. 6). A splint fastened along the leg of a child who is allowed to walk about is useless, and “ irons ” are as inappropriate for little children as they are expensive. For a time the child may fret at being taken off his feet, but he soon submits with resignation. If the limbs be but slightly valgous, a flat pillow may be fixed between the knees, and the ankles- tied together by a handkerchief, or secured by a strap. This method should be carried on day and night, and to prevent any rotation of the tibiae, a sand-bag may be kept across the knees as the child lies. If these gentle means prove inadequate, a plain wooden splint, padded on one surface, should be applied along the outer side of the limb; it should be long enough to reach from the top of the thigh to six inches beyond the foot (Fig. 7). Fig. 6.—SimpleTreat- ment of Double Knock-knee.