170 TRISMUS NAS GENTIUM. with the physical defect shows that the condition of the extremities is not the result of lesion in the spinal cord. The cause of the general imbecility is, probably, cerebral haemor- rhage in early childhood. It comes on suddenly, often with convulsions, and it is likely to leave the child hemiplegic. Sometimes the paralysis partly clears up, but it generally leaves the child feeble. Sometimes, when the area of the cerebral haemorrhage has been extensive, one side of the face is paralysed. All that can be done for the child is comprised in the words galvanism, tenotomy, exercises, and massage. Obstetric paralysis of infants.—The violence inseparable from the expulsion or extraction of the foetus is apt to cause paralysis. The facial nerve is not infrecpiently implicated; but the lesion here referred to is that which follows forcible elevation of the arm, as after version or breech-presentation. 1 It is a variety of Erb’s paralysis, and is due to injury to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, which largely form the outer and posterior cords of the brachial plexus. The paralysis is, thus, of the deltoid, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, triceps, coraco-brachialis, biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus. The arm and forearm hang useless, with the hands slightly pronated and the fingers bent. The treatment recom- mended by Duchenne is localised faradisation. (See “ Bull, de la Soc. Med.,” 1891.) Careful examination for co-existent dislocation of the humerus should be made; if this lesion were overlooked, subsequent resection of the head of the bone might be rendered necessary. Trismus nascentium is a rare disease in Great Britain. It generally comes on from the fifth to the tenth day after birth, and is popularly called “ nine-day fits.” It is likely that the tetanus is the result of the inoculation of the specific bacillus by scissors or dressings. Castor oil, opium in the most minute doses, chloral hydrate, and bromide ol potassium may be tried; chloroform might be needed if the tetanic convulsions were severe. An account of the way in which this disease has been prevented in the island of St. Kilda (where it had long been known as “ the scourge ”), by the adoption of energetic antiseptic precautions, is found in the Brit. Med. Journ. of Oct. 24th, 1896.