182 WRY NECK. The treatment varies with the age of the patient. In an infant, as soon as the tenderness has passed away, frictions may be made along the muscle, and, the shoulder being depressed, the head may be encouraged towards the straight line, and even beyond it. This is the prophylactic treatment of wry neck, and, if carried out with patience, it usually suffices for re- moving all deformity. No special treatment is required for the tumour, but frictions will expedite its disappearance ; no apparatus is needed. Tenotomy.—If the child be older, and mild treatment prove insufficient, it will be advisable to divide one head or both heads of the sterno-mastoid above the clavicle, where the band or bands can be clearly felt beneath the skin. The child should be anaesthetised; the side of the neck should be cleansed, and the muscle made more definite by drawing up the head. An incision is made parallel with, and about half an inch above the upper border of the clavicle, across the origins of the two heads of the sterno-mastoid, through the skin and fasciae, thus completely laying bare the muscle. The tendinous head of origin is then cut through from before baclcAvards, and the clavicular piece is dealt with in the same manner. The neck being straightened, the cut ends go asunder, leaving a wide and deep gap. In the bottom of this gap the thin-coated internal jugular vein, of comparatively enormous size, may be plainly seen, and perhaps the anterior jugular. I have entirely given up subcutaneous tenotomy—the method of operating in the dark, as it were—and since I have adopted the alternative plan of dividing the muscle through an open wound, I have found the cases doing equally well as regards results, whilst the comfort and satisfaction which are ex- perienced at seeing exactly what is being cut can hardly be overrated. The edges of the skin-wound having been approximated by fine sutures, a pad of dry lint is secured over it, the head being left for a few days in the old position, so that the wound may be healed before massage is begun. Although on dragging upon the head previous to operat- ing, it sometimes appears that only the sternal origin of the muscle is in fault, it is generally found that when this has been divided the clavicular part has also to be cut.