366 ACUTE SEPTIC DIAPHYSITIS. I regret to say that this condition of affairs has been described as a distinct pathological entity under the heading “ Acute Necrosis.” But the actual disease was acute septic osteomyelitis, and necrosis is the result of it. To look upon the necrosis as a disease by itself is, in my opinion, unscientific ; and, what is worse, it draws away the practi- tioner’s attention from the primary trouble. The terms applied to the disease by the older pathologists—acute diffuse peri- ostitis, and infective periostitis—show clearly that they considered it to be primarily a periostitis. The general and local signs apparently justified that view, and the evi- dence in that direction seemed conclusive when they found the membrane separated from the bone by extensive suppuration. To them it appeared far more probable that the pus came from the periosteum than the bone. The periosteum, however, is usu semic, thickened, and oedematous. But so also are the adjacent muscles and fas eke, and even the skin over the inflamed tibia, Fig. 87.—Necrosis of for instance, is thick and oedematous. After Lower End of Fe- \ , moral Diapliysis, tllO GVctCUcltlOll Or tilG clDSCGSS, Or tllG TG- £r Osteomyelitis! moval of the necrosed piece of the diapliysis, (Museum, Royal ,qie periosteum at once resumes its work Coll, of Surgeons.) 1 _ , . , . of forming now bonG, which it would have been unable to do had the antecedent disease been an acute periostitis. Moreover, it often happens that the seguestium which is removed from the diapliysis is conical, tapeiing away from the junction-cartilage into the centie of the bone. Thus, in the figure of a sequestrum taken from the lower end of the femoral diapliysis of a boy (Fig. 87), the part first infected was killed in its entire thickness by the Haversian thrombosis ; but, as the inflammation extended, it spread along the central part of the bone rathei than along the compact tissue. If the disease had been a peiiosteal volved only to this extent—that it is hyper-