15:5 OPERATION. prefer that position, or he may be laid upon the affected side and brought Avell over the edge of the bed, so that the abscess may be opened without further change of his position. It is advisable to resect about an inch of one of the ribs at that situation. This is best done by making a two- inch incision along the middle line of a rib and detaching the periosteum by an elevator, at the same time isolating the rib from the intercostal vessels. The bone is then cut through in two places with a pair of strong scissors or pliers, and the resected fragment is picked out. If the bone have first been isolated, as above described, there is practi- cally no risk of bleeding. A blunt director is then thrust into the abscess, and when pus appears along the groove the opening is enlarged with dressing-forceps. I make it a practice in every operation for empyema to resect a piece of rib. It does not increase the risk of the operation, and it ensures free and effectual drainage. In the majority of cases incision and drainage might be sufficient. But there is a small proportion of cases in which resection is absolutely needed; and because one cannot tell at the time of operating which cases are likely to require it, I would urge that each case have the benefit of the resection. Everyone who has had much to do with empyema in children has met with those unhappy cases which have “ hung fire ” because drainage could not be effectually secured through the simple incision. And he has probably seen the case quickly clearing up after a second operation with re- section. Why submit a child with empyema to the risk of long-continued discharge and of having a second operation performed upon it ? Resection is a simple matter; let it be resorted to in every case. When the empyema is cured, the rib is quickly restored by the formation of new bone from the periosteum. It must be clearly understood that the piece of rib is removed merely in order that drainage may be perfectly free. The resection has nothing whatever to do with Estlander’s operation, which is described a little further on. The first indication is to have an opening through which even large flakes of lymph can escape, and one