63 TUBERCULOUS GUMMATA. these puffy swellings may he found, and the deepest of them may extend through the entire thickness of the skull, the apex of the sequestrum resting on the dura mater. At othei times only the outer table is involved. If the small puffy swelling, or swellings, be unassociated with other manifesta- tions of tuberculosis, the surgeon may at first be in doubt as to whether the case may not be one of syphilitic gumma. This doubt is readily solved by administering a course of potassium iodide or of mercury. As I have implied else- where (page 100), there is a close anatomical resemblance between a tuberculous and a syphilitic gumma. But in the latter case, when the disease affects the bone, there is gener- ally more or less osteo-plastic deposit, which is conspicuous by its absence from the tuberculous lesion. The treatment involves the free use of the scalpel and sharp spoon. Tuberculous nodules in the skin (scrofulo-clerma, stru- mous tubercle).—A child is probably being treated for some chronic affection of glands, bone, or joint, when the mother remarks that he has “ something like blind boils on his thigh.” The tuberculous nodules are often seen in the child who is the subject of dactylitis, and a favourite site for them is the skin of the buttock. Sometimes there are tubercles in various stages of development in different parts of the body. The smallest of them feels like a fine shot-pellet in the skin; there is neither tenderness nor discoloration about it. A further stage shows the nodule larger, and nearer to the surface, and the skin around it hypersemic or dusky. A deposit still more advanced may be as large as a bean or a dried raisin; the spot being soft and the skin brownish or purple. Soon after this the thin skin gives way, and the chronic “ abscess,” or unhealthy-looking ulcer which results slowly disappears, its situation being temporarily marked by a dusky staining. The best way to find the youngest of these tubercles is gently to pass the hand over the skin of the trunk and extremities. They consist of aggregations of leu- cocytes in a fluid, granular, or slightly fibrillated matrix. At first they are quite hard. Treatment.—If the child be dealt with on the scheme laid down in this chapter, the nodules may probably disappear