177 CRANIECTOMY. concerning a cutting operation which has recently been devised with a view to establishing improved cerebral development. The operation is termed craniectomy, and it consists in making linear incisions through the roof of the skull, on the theory that the brain has been arrested in its growth by a too early ossification of the fontanelles and sutures. But, as Dr. Sutherland truly says, experience does not sustain the san- guine expectations of early operators. As microcephalus is not, as a rule, dependent on premature synostosis, but on original faulty brain-development, the operation cannot be a promising one ; and though it has been contended that in some cases improved brain-pulsations were produced by it, the after-histories of cases operated on have not shown more mental improvement than would probably have occurred independently of the operations. Bourneville has even demonstrated that such operations diminished the cranial capacity, as exuberant bone-growth was apt to take place where bone had been excised. And, as Sir G. M. Humphry asserted, there is nothing in the skulls of microcephalic idiots to suggest that the deficiency in the development of the skull is the leading feature in the deformity. The brain growth is the determining factor, and the skull grows upon and accommodates itself to the brain, whether the latter be large or small. Craniectomy as an operation for the improvement of microcephalic idiots is dead. Its life was short and meteoric ; and, to those who expected great things from it, it must have been sadly disappointing. Malformations of the external ear.—The pinna is not an important part of the organ of hearing, and in certain in- stances both it and the external meatus fail to be developed; or the pinna may be present and the meatus absent. The meatus may be completely or partially blocked by a septum of false membrane. Sometimes the pinna is curled upon itself or crumpled over the proper site of the meatus. It is doubtful if an attempt to open up a meatus by dissection is likely to be successful, as the existence of a meatus beneath a rudimentary pinna is cpiite unlikely. Occasionally the pinna remains elongated and pointed in an extremely suggestive manner.