134 TUMOURS. The natural desire of parents that some more prompt and radical treatment should be adopted ought not to induce the surgeon to desert multiple punctures for some specula- tive measure which he may be quite unable to complete. For puncture, an anaesthetic is scarcely wanted. The surgeon must be prepared for a cystic lymphangioma becoming suddenly and spontaneously increased in size, hot, and tender, and he welcomes the attack of inflammation, provided that it is not extreme, for he expects that, on its subsidence, the tumour will, in due course, become effaced. But it is not essential that obliteration be preceded by in- flammation, for the serum may undergo a quiet absorption, just as fluid in the tunica vaginalis in little children may do. It is a suggestive fact, and a strong argument against rash interference with these diffuse lymphangiomata, that, common as they are in children, one never meets with them in adults, though occasionally a grown person may present an ill-defined fulness which marks the site of a congenital hygroma. But my experience of them is that they gradually become effaced, especially under the puncture treatment. Of electrolytic treatment, I cannot speak very favourably. For large cysts the injection of Morton’s fluid ' may be tried, and, if this fail, incision and drainage may be resorted to. On all sides the growth is continuous with connective tissue; it possesses no capsule, and the skin may be in- corporated with it; outgrowths may also extend between muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels, and may actually traverse muscles and fasciae.- If the growth be apparently limited— if the fingers can be got all around it, and it can be more or less lifted from the deeper structures in the neck—it may be attacked by dissection. D’Arcy Power has shown some good results of this treatment. And if the tumour be fairly defined upon the trunk or upon a limb it may be dissected off; but the large diffuse swelling which one so often sees in the neck had far better be left untouched by the scalpel. For though the surgeon may be able to free it from the skin and from the carotid sheath, he cannot dissect it out also from beneath the trapezius and the clavicle, for instance. After so prolonged and tedious a dissection the child would