60 TUBERCULOSIS. Sometimes it is difficult to say whether the necrosis was determined by a tuberculous or a septic ostitis. The discovery of staphylococci in the sequestrum is not a proof of the septic origin of the necrosis, for they may have found access to the region by an open sinus, Fortunately, the treatment is the same in each case, nainely, to scrape out the cavity and to irrigate it with a lotion of zinc chloride (grs. 10 to ^i). Tuberculous inflammation specially attacks lymphatic glands, bone, skin (lupus), and synovial membrane. It may come on quietly and painlessly, dragging its weary course; * it is little influenced by treatment, and is very prone to relapse. For months or years tuberculous deposits may remain quiescent, and then, under the influence of physical depression or local disturbance, may wake up and excite suppuration. In this way the so-called residual abscesses are produced. Caseation and subsequent drying up are a for- tunate ending of the deposit. Prognosis.—Often when tuberculous inflammation has liberated itself by setting up auspicious suppuration, and evacuation of the abscess has taken place spontaneous^, or has been procured by art, rapid healing occurs. Tuberculous inflammation is by no means incurable. Even from general tuberculous peritonitis a child may recover on the surgeon performing abdominal section, although at the time of operation the peritoneum is seen to be dusted over with countless specks of tubercle. The term tuberculous abscess, as applied to the fluid granulomatous collection of spinal caries, hip-disease, and so on, is more convenient than correct; it is no more an abscess than is an advancing gumma. Abscess implies the presence of pus, and pus demands the presence of certain septic micro-organisms. If these micro-organisms find entry into a tuberculous granuloma, true suppuration occurs, and greatly to the disadvantage of the child. Under appropriate treatment the child Avith tuberculous disease of the hip, spine, or other joint, may groAV into a strong man or woman; experience is daily showing us that the intractability of tuberculous disease of joints has been exaggerated. Still, according to D’Arcy Power, “tuberculosis kills one-third of the children who ; annually die in hospitals.” (See Foot-note, page 252.)