DIP TITHE nr A IN CATS, ETC. 17 by an outbreak; and so, also, after heavy rains, by foul water contaminating drinking water. Diphtheria may affect, and be propagated by, cats and other tame animals, including poultry. In his Report on an outbreak at Enfield, Dr. Bruce Low referred to the case of a little boy who took fatal diphtheria; on the first day of his illness he vomited, and the cat licked the vomit on the floor. In a few days the cat became ill, and her sufferings being severe, and similar to those of the dead boy, the owner destroyed her. During the early part of her illness this cat was let out in the back yard, and in a few days the cat of a neighbour became similarly affected. This cat also had been out in the back yard at night. This second cat recovered, being carefully nursed by four little girls, all of whom developed diphtheria. There was no other known source of infection to which these girls had been exposed but this cat. Dr. W. C. Cole published a valuable series of references showing the relationship existing between human and avian diphtheria; and he quotes the statement of Dr. Nicati, of Marseilles, to the effect that an outbreak of the malady among the fowls coincided with an increase of diphtheria among the inhabitants of the city. When a domestic dog, kitten or cab bird or monkey, is sick, it should he taken far- out of the reach of children, and I am not at all sure that it should be brought back to them again when it is apparently convalescent. It would be a fault on the right side—if, indeed, it be a fault—if the ailing pet were promptly hurled down the nearest Tarpeian rock, and its body consigned to an adjacent crematorium. In the case of diphtheria spreading amongst families who are served with milk from one particular dairy, it is quite possible that the cows have some disease allied to diphtheria. Indeed, this is practically demonstrated by Dr. Klein in his masterly Report to the Local Government Board (1889-90). Ihe risk of infection in this way is obviously diminished by having all nursery milk, and all drinking water, boiled. Symptoms.— Ihe term “Croup” was suggested by the peculiar sound which accompanies inspiration; its associa- tions are with larynx and trachea. We should do far better c