CLJJB FOOT. 474 advantage over the insertion of a thick wedge of space into the astragalo-scaphoid joint. And if one is too ready to excise a piece of the os calcis there will be a risk of obtaining an improved position of the foot by the shortening of its outer border, rather than by the lengthening of the inner border. But in the case of children, the simple and thoroughly free incision on the inner side of the foot is sufficient. And if the results of treatment by lengthening the inner border of the foot can eventually be shown to be equal to those following the removal of a wedge of bone from the outer border, preference may surely be claimed for the simpler method. My own experience is that they are far superior. A few days after operating, or as soon as is thought advis- able, the child may be alloAved to walk about in his plaster casings ; if the plaster breaks and softens it is not necessary to apply fresh, for as he is getting about on his flat feet, relapse is impossible. Indeed, if the operation has been thoroughly done, there is no strain on any tissue and there is nothing to cause relapse. When the foot is placed in the corrected position there is a large ruck of skin upon the outer parts of the dorsum which, following Ivellock’s suggestion, may be conveniently raised in a large flap, and left for five or six days attached by each end, the edges of the dorsal wound being brought together beneath it. This flap is eventually detached from its lower end and transplanted into the granulating wound on the inner side of the foot. The more I see of the open operation the more pleased I am with it; it is so much better to divide the tendon of the tibialis posticus, for instance, where it can be seen and felt, than, in a somewhat speculative manner, as it runs near the artery above the ankle. By the open method nothing is cut in the dark and there is no large artery in the way of the knife. Such an extensive operation could not have been done with safety in the pre-Listerian days, but now a careful / surgeon can undertake it without apprehension. Partial excision of the tarsus in the treatment of club foot is seldom needed in childhood. With plaster of Paris, after free employment of the knife, the most extreme