41 LANDMARKS. advisable to have the neck of tlie patient almost undei it, and to stick pieces of candle upon the mantelpiece, book- shelf, or elsewhere, by planting them upon a little of the melted tallow or composition. Excellent illumination may thus be secured; long candles being cut into several pieces. The trunk and limbs being wrapped around with a thin blanket, the child should be placed with his shoulders on a small, firm pillow, and the head thrown back, so as to draw up the trachea from behind the sternum. The surgeon stands at the child’s right shoulder. The cliloroformist is placed at the end of the table, so as to be able to hold the head straight in the middle line. Unskilled assistants are of little or no use at a tracheotomy ; they are apt to be in the way. The landmarks are the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, the trachea, and the episternal notch. In a small, fat-necked child it is not always easy to feel the trachea. It is, there- fore, well to remember that the cricoid is the first pro- jection encountered when the finger is drawn upwards in the middle line from the top of the sternum. It is very necessary to have the child’s head kept straight, and the in- cision exactly in the median line ; the cliloroformist, therefore, charges himself with the former of these duties. The deep part of the incision should be as long as the skin wound ; a tapering, conical ivound leads to difficulties. The incision is about If in. long, and longer in a fat-necked child. A small incision is apt to cause difficulties during the operation, and subse- quently to give rise to general emphysema. A very impor- tant point is to keep it high up, beginning it over the thyroid cartilage. If it be made farther down the neck, the trachea will be sought where if is deeply placed, and in a dangerous area. The trachea is opened in the highest rings, the cricoid cartilage being cut through, if expedient. If the wound made in the trachea be found of insufficient length, it must be enlarged upwards, not downwards. Laryngo - tracheotomy is a very proper operation for children, whether the air-passage is to be opened for diph- theritic or oedematous obstruction or for a foreign body in the larynx, trachea or bronchus. The surgeon can subsequently enlarge the opening upwards or downwards as occasion may