THE A TME NT. 323 When tlie strangulation is at the ileo-crecal valve, a firm, abnormal mass may possibly be detected by palpation, deep in the right iliac fossa; but, on the other hand, if the intus- susception be travelling along the colon and there be no tympanites, palpation may • recognise an unusual emptiness in the right iliac fossa. The ordinary situation of hernia having been explored, and inquiry instituted as to whether the child had been subject to hernia, examination by the finger in the rectum must be made; possibly it may reveal the intussuscepted mass. If on withdrawal the finger be soiled with bloody mucus, the diagnosis is more than ever clear. If left to itself, the invaginated piece of intestine may, in the course of a short day or two, become swollen and agglutinated, and quite incapable of reduction. The opposed peritoneal surfaces adhere so firmly that if by good fortune the strangulated knuckle slough off, the continuity of the tube may become re-established and recovery take place. Considerable pieces of invaginated bowel have been happily cast adrift and discharged per anum; even the caput caecum coli and some of the small and large intestines have so passed, and the child has recovered. But for a surgeon to hope for such a result is, to say the least, unreasonable. The child generally sinks exhausted before this can be attained. Indeed, in acute cases, he may be killed by shock ere the strangula- tion is a day old. In all cases, the younger the child the worse the prognosis. The report of an instance of spontaneous recovery attracts much attention, whilst fifty children might die of unrelieved strangulation without special record being made. Thus nature becomes accredited with a power of working a cure in intussusception, which, if misapprehended, involves grave disappointment. Treatment.—From the moment that internal strangu- lation is diagnosed, laxatives must be withheld, and no food whatever must be given by either mouth or rectum, for to excite peristalsis is to increase the intussusception. Fomentations by flannel under oil-silk give some relief, but they cannot influence the strangulation. Distension of the bowel by water or air has, in certain