SPINAL CARIES. 252 and “climbing” up again in a similar way (Fig. 61). As a further test of stiffness, the child may be made to bend his shoulders and trunk backwards, and then laterally. The range of rotation must also be noted when his pelvis is fixed and he is told to turn his trunk. If the neck be diseased, he cannot bend his face towards the floor. He will not be able to turn the head without wheeling round the shoulders, nor will he shake or nod it. Every movement is carried out with caution; the occiput is drawn back and steadied against sudden jars. Thus the neck is shortened, the shoulders being drawn up also, to steady the base of the skull. If the dorsal or the lumbar vertebrae be affected, the spine is so rigidly fixed that the child cannot stoop; he will try to bring the hand to the ground by bending the hips and knees, reaching down side- ways, and keeping the spine quite stiff. With advanced disease in the dorsal region, the cavity of the chest is diminished, and respiration is hurried and jerky, because the vertebral ends of the ribs have not free play. If the child be stood upon a chair or footstool, and asked to get down, he will do so with extreme caution, dreading the least shake. The surgeon may stand in front of the child, and, whilst talking to him, gently press down upon the top of the head; or, in the case of suspected dorsal or lumbar disease, upon the shoulders. By watching the facial expression he can at once see if this pressure cause dis- comfort. A healthy child supports a great deal of pressure thus applied without a wince or change of feature, but a child with spinal ostitis cannot bear it. Abscess.*—Disintegration of the vertebrae is frequently associated with the formation of abscess, but in certain quiet cases the debris is removed by the capillaries and lymphatics as quickly as it is formed, so that no definite abscess occurs. This constitutes caries sicca, and is of common occurrence. The question of absorption of pus, is, perhaps, only one of degree, for though in many cases of caries no pus makes * The terms “abscess” and “pus” in connection with tuberculous disease are used in their popular and comprehensive sense. It would he inconvenient, and—at the present time, at least—it might appear an affectation, to speak of them as fluid “ tuberculous granulomata,” which, indeed, they are.