TUMOURS. 132 rounded contour, and that it consists of a solitary cyst which, being evacuated, leaves the neck of normal appearance. Such a hydrocele sends no offshoots towards tongue or axilla, and though it may recur after tapping, it will he cured by incision and drainage (page 126). The adjoining wood-cut (Fig. 23) is taken from an infant with a rapidly-growing cystic lymphangioma of the right subclavian region, which seemed to be composed of six or eight large cysts. The tapping of one cyst did not empty the others; but, on the collapse of one, the others came into prominence and were emptied in turn. From each of the larger of the cysts about an ounce of pale serum was with- drawn. After puncture the tumours entirely disappeared, but as a rule many tappings are needed before such a growth is permanently effaced. In another case the mother had noticed a swelling under the right side of the tongue a few days after birth. On its being shown to the doctor, it was called a “ranula.” It grew across the floor of the mouth, and amongst the muscles, until a tumour appeared beneath the jaw. The child was losing appetite and becoming thin. Had anyone examined her then, for the first time, he might have deemed the growth malignant. Later, the tumour became welded into a solid mass, as if a large abscess were about to declare itself. The inflammation was associated with pain and constitutional disturbance, but on its subsidence, and without the occur- rence of suppuration, the growth steadily diminished, and at last was represented b}r a trifling fulness. A hygroma appeared upon the other side of the neck; it grew rapidly, but, like the other (with which it had no apparent con- nection), it underwent spontaneous inflammation and ob- literation. The low vitality of these growths renders them specially liable to inflammation. (The diagnosis from ranula is completed on puncture; for further remarks see page 187.) The growth for which cystic lymphangioma is most likely to be mistaken is lipoma:—Both are apt to possess an Fig. 23.—Lymphangioma or Cystic Hygroma, forming one variety of Hydrocele of neck.