458 DISEASE OF THE WRIST JOINT. tissue. Disintegration occurs, and abscess having been opened about the back or sides of the wrist, the probe may touch carious bone. Probably the disease begins more often in the synovial membrane than in the bones. With prolonged treatment the disease may come to a tardy conclusion with no worse result than a stiffened wrist. Therefore, gouging or other piecemeal treatment should not be hastily adopted- With perfect rest of the part between moulded splints for a few or for many months, a satisfactory result may be expected. Still, scraping and irrigation may eventually have to be resorted to. Thorough scraping of the diseased carpus takes the place of the classical excision of the wrist, but even the most complete carpal arthrectomy is often attended with disappointment. On a few occasions in advanced tuberculous diseases I have found it necessary to amputate the hand. But in the surgery of the upper extremity conservative principles usually give good promise; still, to secure it, time and attention to matters of detail and of general hygiene are very necessary. Ganglion.—The cysts are small and rounded, and often so hard at the back of the wrist as to suggest their being out- growths of the bone In such circumstances they are tense hernial protrusions of a synovial pouch through a gap in the fibrous sheath. They are best dealt with by the introduction of a stiff grooved needle. After evacuation they should be firmly compressed by the thumb each day, so as to prevent their refilling. If the ganglion be more extensive, as when it implicates the sheath of the tendons of the thumb or fingers, it is best treated by drawing off the sero-synovial contents with a hypodermic syringe and injecting Morton’s fluid (page 243). The cyst is then to be freely manipulated, and the hand and forearm secured on a splint.* Chronic disease of the synovial sheaths and bursae is likely to be of tuberculous origin (page 439), and it is apt to foreshadow, to cause, or to run with tuberculous disease of the neighbouring joint. It must be treated with complete rest, and if it do not yield to the injection of Morton’s fluid, it may be necessary to lay open and scrape out the cyst, or, in the case of its being of limited extent, to dissect it away. * See paper by Martyn Jordan, Lancet, July 29, 1S93.