181 WHY NECK. part of the muscle, or above the junction of the two parts. The lump is tender for a while, because of the associated myositis, but as it becomes consolidated the infant suffers no pain on its being fingered. It may be of the size and shape of an almond, filbert, or small walnut, its long axis being in the line of the muscle. In order to keep the swelling free from pressure, the infant holds his head persistently towards that shoulder, and subsequent contraction of the cicatrix produces the permanent deviation. Having long been of opinion that these tumours were the common cause of wry neck, I at last met with a youth whose birth had been “ crosswise/’ in whose neck a tumour had been noticed directly after birth, and who, it was stated, had all his life kept his head drawn down to the shoulder of the side on which the lump had existed during childhood. I have observed so many cases of Avry neck in which a cervical tumour had been noticed shortly after birth, that I conclude that so-called congenital wry neck is, with but few exceptions, the result of partial or complete rupture of the sterno-inastoid during parturition. In the case of a child with wry neck, close-questioning of the mother generally brings forth evi- dence of there having been something wrong with the neck in early infancy, though it may not have been until a much later date that the child carried his head markedly awiy. These sterno-mastoid tumours were formerly taken as a manifestation of constitutional syphilis. Dr. Frederick Taylor, examining one of them post mortem (the child happened to he the subject of the congenital taint), found in it fibrous tissue and striated muscle, the former being probably organ- ised blood clot, the latter being shreds of sterno-mastoid (Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xxvi.) The appearance of the child with wry neck is characteris- tic :—The occiput is drawn towards the acromion process, and the chin and face are directed towards the opposite shoulder. The shoulder of the affected side is raised, and that side of the neck is short and concave, the hollow being bridged across by the prominent muscle. From the constant dragging upon that side of the face, the commissures of the lips and eye- lids are drawn down; and the bones, especially the inferior maxilla, are unequally develojaed.