292 INCONTINENCE OF URINE. cutaneous tissue at the end of the penis are derived from the internal pudic, itself a branch of the sacral plexus. The nerves of this plexus lose themselves in the grey cells of a certain part of the spinal cord, from which pass out the efferent fibres for the supply of the muscular walls of the bladder. This same colony of cells also receives the filaments which carry up sensations from the vesical mucous membrane (Fig. 68). By design and education these cells are specially occupied with the care of the bladder rather than of the end of the penis, and thus they are apt to interpret the afferent messages coming from the less important area as signals of distress from the bladder itself. For these signals they have but one means of relief, and this being put in force, the boy runs the risk of severe punishment in the morning for having unconsciously wetted his bed. If there be any tightness, redundancy, or adhesion of the prepuce in a boy who suffers from incontinence of urine, this must first of all be put right. Dr. Baruch, who has had unusual opportunities of dealing with cases of nocturnal incontinence of urine, admits that circumcision is a remedy of extremely great value; he has observed that amongst the boys in a Hebrew orphanage under his care, enuresis is remarkably rare. If there be nothing in the condition of the prepuce likely to account for the vesical irritation, a careful examina- tion should be made of the meatus of the urethra. If this be no larger than a pin-hole, it must be incised at the lower part, and kept dilated by the insertion of a tapering bougie. But some days or weeks may elapse after any operation before the bladder entirely loses its excitability. If both preputial and urethral orifices be normal, inquiry should be directed to the bowels. The child may be the subject of habitual constipation, in which case he will improve on a course of rhubarb and soda; or, if constipated and anaemic, he may improve under a course of laxative iron mixture. The close association between the bladder and rectum through the network of the spinal and sympathetic nerves explains the frequent dependence of vesical irritation upon a loaded rectum. The presence of rectal polypus, also, may give rise to incontinence of urine. An excess of nitrogenised food may possibly render the