189 N.-EVUS IN MOUTH. from the gain is of somewhat common occurrence, especially on the lower jaw. It is of a maroon colour, and is very apt to bleed. The use of the gouge may effect its complete removal. If necessary, a tooth may be extracted, or even a wedge-shaped piece of the alveolar process may have to be removed. (See page 118.) Congenital hypertrophy of the gum.—Physiological activity may be so great that by the fifth week after birth many teeth may have appeared, a pink mass of gum-tissue protruding between the lips ; subsequent exposure may render its surface skin-like. Repeated partial operations may be required to remove the disfigurement, and portions of the alveolar process may have to be resected, bleeding being checked by cauterisation. Though the hypertrophy is called congenital, it may not appear until the first teeth are being cut. It may be associated with intellectual deficiency, and with physical deformities of various kinds. Nsevus may affect the lips or the mouth as a flat or rounded mass. If bruised by food or by the teeth, it is apt to bleed; sometimes bleeding is spontaneous. It had better be attacked by the thermo-cautery, the adjacent tissues being protected by a fold of wet lint. A nsevus in the mouth must certainly not be allowed to grow uninterfered with, or it may assume alarming proportions. I have recently operated upon a lady who, from her childhood, had been the subject of such a condition. The naevus was occupying the thickness of her cheek and lip, and protruded in a dangerous manner against her teeth. Its removal entailed a formidable operation, involving a splitting of the cheek, and the sacrifice of the buccinator, the facial nerve, and a considerable portion of each lip. The surgeons, who at various times had inspected it, had advised postponement of the inevitable operation. The nsevus has now been completely removed, but the operation has been followed by very serious contractions. Dentigerous cysts, follicular odontomes, maybe associated with error in the development of a tooth. The tooth is properly formed, but remains imprisoned in the depths of its closed follicle. The cysts are rarely connected with the milk teeth, but in the case of a cyst containing a tooth of the