TRACHEOTOMY. 42 direct. Certainly if an inexperienced tracheotomist would set out with the intention of dividing the child’s cricoid, he would avoid the many difficulties of the lower operation. Even in young children the cricoid cartilage forms a prominent landmark, and the surgeon who aims for it is quite unlikely to go wrong. Below the level of the isthmus the veins are fuller. The surgeon need not fear the isthmus, but, tearing through the tissue with two pairs of forceps, the windpipe is at last exposed to the extent of the width of the top of the left index linger, which is being used as a guide. The isthmus is perchance divided. The subcutaneous and deeper tissues should, so far as is possible, be torn rather than cut, so that there may be the less bleeding. For this two pairs of dissecting forceps may be advantageously used. There must be no hurry during the operation, bleeding vessels being secured with self-holding forceps, and the trachea actually exposed before it is opened. If' the trachea cannot be made clearly visible (as may happen if the wound be deep or there be much bleeding), at least it must feel bare to the tip of the finger. If an attempt be made to open it while it is still covered with muscle or aponeurosis, delay and danger will ensue. Swollen veins which are in the way may be caught with two pairs of self-holding forceps, and then severed. A few pairs of these forceps are of great help ; with them the wound can effectually be kept dry without perpetual sponging, and any irregular or large vessel can be quickly secured by them. The welling-up of dark venous blood which occurs in the deeper part of the dissection must be disregarded. Though it may look terrible, it ceases immediately the trachea is opened, and the entrance of air has once more freed the pulmonary circulation. When the windpipe is exposed, a sharp hook is thrust into it, to fix it at, or close below, the cricoid, and the point of the scalpel is then plunged in from below upwards. The edge of the blade is directed forward, and as many rings are divided as may seem necessary for the introduction of the tube. The surgeon should assure himself by the touch that the hook is firmly in the windpipe; of this there must be no doubt. - The hook afterwards shows him exactly where he has to insert the tube. The importance of exposing the