109 EXCISION OF TUBERCULOUS GLANDS. working in the cavity by inserting the tips of the two index - fingers into the skin-wound and pulling them asunder; but it must not be forgotten that a large amount of work cannot be effectually carried out through a very small incision. Having made this incision through the skin, platysma and deep fascia, I use the scalpel as little as possible, and expose the glands by working Avith a steel director and forceps. Vessels entering the gland I tear through Avith tAVO pairs of forceps, so as to avoid needless bleeding. In all probability the neighbouring glands are also enlarged, and they are, therefore, Aveeded out along with the chief offenders. If there be much bleeding—and, as a rule, there is not—it is easily checked by the temporary use of catch-forceps. The cavity is then dried by swabs of aseptic gauze. Having prepared some horsehair by soaking it in the Avarm antiseptic lotion, sutures of that material are then inserted Avith a fine needle, introduced close to the edges of the Avound. But if a considerable amount of diseased skin has had to be cut aAvay, or if a friable tuberculous cicatrix has required removal by the sharp spoon, no attempt need be made to close the Avound absolutely. A clear course having been made by the sharp spoon to the depths of the diseased area, drainage Avill take place Avitliout special provision being made for it. But if suppuration has entailed severe scraping, it is better to leave in a drainage-tube or a strand of horsehair for tAventy-four hours. There is sure to be a good deal of exudation folloAving the scraping, and unless the fluid can escape freely into the absorbent dressings, it is apt to cause tension, and disappointment. T do not say that the drainage- tube is ahvays necessary; but it is, I think, safer to leave one in for a few hours, as a scraping operation is very different from a clean incision through healthy tissues. A bulky sterilised dressing is bound on by a bandage encircling the neck. The child being put back in his cot, an ordinary pillow is not allowed, but a small junk is placed beneath the occiput, and the head is steadied betAveen a couple of sand-bags as large as quartern loaves. From this position the child is not alloAved to stir, either for feeding or for any other purpose