65 TUBEBGULOUS MENINGITIS. Tuberculous meningitis is apt to supervene in the progress of a localised tuberculous disease, and even when everything promised well. The fact of such meningitis being of com- paratively rare occurrence is evidence that the tuberculous disease of glands, bones, and joints is not, after all, generally infective. The meningitis is rarely a primary affection. It is due to the tuberculous material being carried to the pia mater—chiefly at the base of the brain—where it sets up an inflammation which almost invariably ends fatally. The deposits are actually “tubercular.” The acute inflammation of the pia mater, and also of the choroid plexus, determines basic and intra-ventricular effusions of serum, so that the disease was often called acute hydrocephalus. The symptoms may be at first, and for several days, quite obscure. The child cares less for food; he vomits occasion- ally or persistently, and even when he has not been taking food; he loses flesh, and is drowsy. He may ask to be put to bed two or three times a clajr, or to be taken upon his mother’s knee. He complains of headache, and puts his hand up to his head; he is restless and apathetic, and his pale face is every now and then covered with a bright flush. He takes no interest in his toys or anything else ; he is peevish, and he wishes to be left alone. By drawing the finger-nail in a slight scratch across the skin of the abdomen, a Avide red streak appears (tache cerebrate). The abdominal Avail is depressed, for the intestines are empty and contracted. The boy grinds his teeth during sleep, and wakes up Avith a scream. He dreads the light, and turns over in bed to avoid disturbance. The eyebroAvs are knit, and the expression is anxious; the head may be hot, and rigidly drawn backAvards. The child utters a short, sharp cry, and may call, “ My head! my head! ” The fontanelle may be bulging. The pulse is quickened, and the temperature raised. He may temporarily rally. The pulse is irregular, Aveak, and flickering, and there is also irregularity of respiration; twitchings and localised paralyses may be often noticed. The pupils may be e\renly contracted, or unequal, and often the child squints. Then drowsiness yields to delirium. At any period of the disease convulsions may set in, and as the end approaches, coma is • V