309 GONORRHOEA. ulceration. Lastly, the attack may be caused by a foreign bod}7. The tissues are swollen, reel, and painful. Attention may first be directed to the condition by tlie linen being soiled, by the child constantly rubbing or scratching the parts, or by the frequent micturition. The first examination of the parts should be thorough, and may even need the administration of chloroform. The treatment requires soothing measures, and absolute rest in bed. Frequently in the course of the day the child may be made to sit in warm antiseptic water. A mild lotion may also be used with a syringe, the labia being subsequently kept apart by strips of wet boracic lint. After each washing the labia should be carefully dried by a soft towel; they may he then dusted over with boracic acid powder, or anointed with vaseline and eucalyptus. If the urine be strongly acid, acetate of soda may be given. The food should be of a fluid and unstimulating nature. When the acuteness of the attack has passed off, iron and other tonics will be required. Prolapse of the bladder sometimes occurs in female children who are the subjects of severe and long-continued straining. I have lately had a case of this sort under my care: the bladder was turned inside out through the urethra, which was so much dilated as easily to admit one’s index- finger. The treatment consists in removing the cause of the straining (page 316), and in improving the child’s general condition. Gonorrhoea.—Vulvitis of venereal origin is occasionally met with, but the disease possesses no characteristic feature whereby it can be certainly recognised. Whether the pre- sence of diplococci in the discharge can be taken as positive evidence of gonorrhoeal infection, it is as yet too early to say. The profuseness of the discharge offers no differential feature. If the parts were bruised or torn, the suspicion of the child having been violated would be grave. But when precocity or hysteria influences a clever girl, a simple leucorrhoea may be made the subject of an accusation which is as groundless as it is serious. Parents are naturally anxious and suspicious when a child is found with purulent vaginitis, but the discreet practitioner will do all in his power to allay groundless fears, and prevent the child from