INCONTINENCE OF URINE. 293 urine irritating; the child should certainly not be allowed stimulants of any kind; he should feed only at regular meal-times; cakes and sweets tuff should be prohibited, and he should not be allowed to eat or drink just before going to bed. I have not found, however, that restricting the amount of meat eaten in the course of the day is an im- portant element in the treatment of the case. Belladonna is useful in the treatment of enuresis. Dr. Baruch administers the atropine in doses of l-64th or l-32nd of a grain in the late afternoon, and regulates the amount to be taken by watching the pupil. My own experience with this method has been satisfactory. Atropiaa sulphatis, 1 gr. Tinct. aurantii, 53. Acpne, tj. Dose.—One drop for each year, to be given every hour in the late afternoon, or until the pupil is dilated at bedtime, and a dose or two during the night, should the pupil begin to contract. Thus, if the boy be six years old, he will take six drops—minims, shall we say ? An ounce contains 480 minims, so that at each dose the boy would have l-80th of a grain. Suppose he Avent to bed soon after six o’clock, and the first dose Avere given at three o’clock, he Avould have had l-20th of a grain in all. But if this do not dilate the pupil, a little more may be given. It is, of course, better to begin Avith quite a small dose. I Avould direct particular attention to the simplicity of the construction of this prescription—one grain, one drachm, one ounce, and one drop for each year. A good deal may be done toAvards breaking the excito- motory chain of the sleeping child of its bad habit by taking him from his bed once or tAvice in the night for micturition. This may be done at the time of the parent or nurse going to bed or getting up, or the child may be roused at an early hour in the morning. He certainly should not be alloAved to lie upon his back, as in that position the urine disturbs the trigone. A cotton-reel harnessed over the lumbar vertebras will ensure his sleeping on the side. The foot of the bed should be considerably raised, so that the urine may collect