107 EXCISION OF TUBERCULOUS GLANDS. clear away the local irritation and the suppurating glands, and then to send the child to the coast. Sea-breezes cannot determine the absorption of the septic or tuberculous pus in a sfland. Yet the advice is sometimes given in an off-hand way that children with suppuration be taken to the sea. This usually ends in disappointment. If the child’s health be poor, and no improvement be effected by treatment; if the masses be large, and few in number; if they be numerous and increasing rather than diminishing, and apparently disturbing the well-being of the patient; or if they threaten suppuration, they should be re- moved without further delay, whatever their situation. It is inexpedient to leave collections of matter in the tissues; it is impossible to say where they may eventually find exit, and, discharging spontaneously, they may become septic. Excision of tuberculous glands.—Too often the operating surgeon sees the case only when suppuration has far advanced, the skin being undermined, and a considerable series of glands being matted together, or on the point of forming a diffuse abscess. Provided only that treatment be not too long delayed, the cases are very manageable; and, instead of the child being permanently marked with scars, a thin white line is all that ultimately remains as evidence of the disease and its treatment. It may be that a gland the central part of which has broken down has, in a few rare instances, undergone complete resolution and absorption; but the chance of this occurring in any individual case is so unlikely that for all practical purposes it must be disregarded. With respect to the radical treatment of enlarged glands in the neck, it is of little use advising operation on a case unless the surgeon is determined to deal effectually with every implicated gland and sinus, root and branch, and he must be prepared to encounter considerable difficnlties during the procedure. He will, therefore, feel much more at his ease if he has, in addition to a skilled anaesthetist, a trustworthy assistant, and I am sure that, whenever practicable, the services of a special anaesthetist should be engaged. The child should not be kept too deeply under the anaesthetic during the operation. I have never met with any instance