247 ' VERTEBRAL CARIES. vertebrae undergo absorption, though deposits of new hone may be taking place about the laminae and articular pro- cesses. But for this consolidating deposit, what is left of the carious vertebrae would fall together, with the probable result of compression, of the cord. Let those ivho would talk of straightening a carious spine ponder over this mechanical arrangement. It is by ankylosis that nature is able to effect a cure; all that the surgeon can do is to keep the child in the best possible health, and to ensure absolute rest so as to help on this consolidation. The diagnosis of tuberculous ostitis is easy enough when angular deformity has supervened; but the surgeon must detect it in those early days when a view of the vertebrae themselves could reveal little more than a hyperaemic area, for it is then that treatment effects its best results. On paper the diagnosis of early disease is easy enough, but in actual practice it is sometimes impossible for the surgeon to say whether or no a child has vertebral ostitis. In such a case he should give the child the benefit of the doubt, putting him to bed for a while so as to let the equivocal signs clear off; he must never let the child run about until the positive diagnosis asserts itself with unmistakable clearness. Stiffness of the affected region of the spine is a sign of greater importance than angular deformity, as from first to last there may be no projection whatever of the spinous processes. Caries is apt to advance much farther without recognition in the lumbar region than in the neck or chest. In the last-named region a slight falling together of the bodies of the vertebrae is accompanied by so obvious a projection of the spinous processes (which are by nature prominent) that the mother herself notices the back “ growing out.” The adjacent sketches show that a slight falling together of the front of the cervical or lumbar vertebrae produces a straightening of that part of the column, and not a pro- jection (Fig. 59, b and d). (The normal projection of the seventh cervical spine lias occasionally been mistaken for a sign of disease.) A varying amount of localised lateral deviation of the spine may be associated with the angular deformity if the