365 ACUTE SEPTIC DIAPHYSITIS. do with the epiphysis; the two parts are separated by the junction-cartilage, and each has its own system of blood- vessels. But the invasion of streptococci is not always con- tined to the diaphysis ; traversing the junction-cartilage, they may swarm through the epiphysis and wreck the joint, especially in the case of infants. Indeed, of so frequent occurrence is the invasion of the joint a result of the acute diaphysitis occurring on the threshold of life, that Mr. Thomas Smith described the condition some years ago under the title of “Acute Arthritis of Infants.” In some such cases the septic ostitis no doubt begins as an acute epiphysitis, but it so constantly starts as a para-epiphysitis—a local- ised diaphysitis—that I do not deem it necessary to write a separate account of the epiphyseal affection. It is the same disease wherever it begins. Case.—A child of twenty-five months was admitted in June, 1892, in a state of serious exhaustion; a fortnight before he had a series of fits, and on the day of admission both shoulders were swollen. He was extremely anaemic; the temperature was 104-4° F. The shoulders were red and tense, and fluctuation could be obscurely obtained in them. We diagnosed acute septic diaphysitis ; and within an hour of his admission we opened and irrigated the joints, resected the softened epiphyses, and scraped away the diseased end of the humeral diaphyses. On one side a small sequestrum Avas removed from the end of the diaphysis; on the other side the end of the diaphysis was surrounded by pus and 'Septic granulation-tissue. The child made a rapid recovery, Avith freely movable, though shortened, arms. On each side the disease had begun at the end of the diaphysis, and expended itself upon the epiphysis and the joint rather than on the shaft of the bone. So rapid is the advancement of this infective disease that pus may be found beneath the periosteum Avithin tAventy-four or forty-eight hours of the beginning of the illness. There is purulent infiltration of the ends of the diaphysis and of the marroAv; the Haversian canals are blocked Avith pus, necrosis and septic nephritis occur, together Avith grave constitutional symptoms, and the disease is constantly mortal.* *\ See the account by Cornil et Babes.