SYPHILIS. 90 or suffocating, so lie refuses the breast, and wastes rapidly. If the ulceration continue, blood may be mixed with the mucus, and the development of the cartilage and of the nasal bones may be seriously and permanently affected; caries and necrosis are, however, not commonly met with. Eruptions.—A moist roseola maybe spread over the body, being best marked about the gluteal folds and the genitals ; sometimes the skin is raw in patches. The syphilitic erup- tions of early infancy may be papular, vesicular, pustular, or scaly. They are usually symmetrical and polymorphous. Their hue was likened by Fallopius to that of the lean of ham. They are not prone to appear before the infant is six weeks old; but even within a few days of birth a bullous eruption may break out and afford strong evidence of the disease; this infantile 'pemphigus involves a grave prognosis. The epidermis is apt to be detached from the palms and soles either with or without the occurrence of vesicles or bullae. This is almost pathognomonic of hereditary syphilis. Altogether, the skin of the infant has a dirty, muddy look, and falls in unwholesome wrinkles over the miserable trunk and limbs. The nails are ill-formed and friable, and pustular sores may be found upon the adjoining skin. Dermatitis on the pelvic region of an infant is not necessarily of syphilitic origin, even when associated with a plentiful outbreak of papules and vesicles. Often it is due to the irritation of napkins that have been saturated Avith urine or heces, or washed with soap or soda. An eczema Avhich extends up the abdomen and doAvn the loAver parts of the thighs—that is, beyond the region enclosed in napkins— is likely to be of syphilitic origin; a non-syphilitic dermatitis seldom reaches below the middle of the thighs. The nates, thighs, and pudenda must be kept clean and dry, and napkins and towels should be soft, and should not be Avashed Avith soap or soda. There may be bleeding fissures, ulcers, or condylomata at the angles of the mouth, which may heal Avith linear or general cicatrices (Fig. 39). These lines are highly characteristic, as are also cracks and sores between the fingers and toes. Pain and bleeding attend stretching, and sucking and defecation cause much distress Avhen the labial and anal mucous '' ^