FBI APIS M. 290 patient should be made to sit in a warm bath; stimulants, with quinine and iron, should be given. The case must be treated with promptness and thoroughness. The catheter should not be left in the bladder after the operation. The resulting contraction of the urethra requires long-continued supervision and much patience. Case.—A boy of eight, whilst “ doing Blondin,” fell asti’ide the top rail of a hurdle; and a large blood tumour formed in the perinreum, and retention of urine supervened. The swelling was incised ; a catheter (No. 6, English) was passed every other day. After a fortnight the temperature rose to 102°, and the hypogastric region became hard and tender. Pelvic abscess was diagnosed; an exploration in the linea semilunaris discovered pus below and in front of the superior false ligament of the bladder. A counter-opening was made in the other semilunar line, and a drainage-tube was passed through; the cavity was irrigated with warm iodine water, and pressure was applied. The temperature fell to normal, and the wounds healed ; but twice a week a No. 7 bougie had to be passed, to keep in abeyance the traumatic .stricture. Priapism in early childhood is generally the result of vesical or preputial irritation. It may be caused also by ascarides, chronic constipation, or rectal polypus (page 318). A thorough retraction of the prepuce, or circumcision, and a clearing of the coronal sulcus of all irritating secretions, generally suffice to restore physiological rest. Chronic priapism may be the earliest indication of calculus. Incontinence of urine, or enuresis (ivovpeco, “ make water in ” [bed]), may prove extremely troublesome. In many cases the mother or nurse regards the habit as simple care- lessness, and the poor child is subjected to punishment of increasing severity. This domestic policy generally fails. At any rate, in most of the cases which have been brought to me, it has been ineffectually pursued. These unfortunate children may be no more able to hold their water than they could avoid coughing if a crumb fell into the larynx. Under the high pressure of modern education children are apt to be subject, through the influence of the sympathetic system, to a simple form oi diuresis; and unless the nervous