KNOCK-KNEE. 78 outside iron splint, the rod of which is fixed to the boot: it has an antero-posterior hinge at the ankle, and a lateral one at the knee. This second hinge works with a rack and pinion. The strap which passes round the inner side of the knee should be padded and carefully adjusted, and on the slightest soreness it should be removed (Fig. 8). Operative measures.—If the child be young, and money be not forthcoming for the splint with rack and pinion joints, or there be no one to look after the case, forcible straightening of the limb may be desirable. We are strongly assured that the younger the child the more satisfactory is the result of forcible straightening; but to this the rejoinder is, the younger the child the less the need for rough handling. Still, in suitable cases forcible straightening is an excellent measure. It' is effected when the child is under chloroform. The surgeon holds the thigh in one hand, and the middle of the leg in the other, and with his knee placed near or against the prominent angle of the extended limb he straightens it gently yet firmly, as he would a bent stick. The limb is afterwards put up straight in splinting. It is impossible to say what happens during this manipulation—probably a condensation of tissue takes place about the inner condyle. But it is by no means necessaiy to efface the lateral angle of the knee at once. I have performed this operation in a large number of cases, and have never known the least trouble result from it, whilst, so far as I have been able to determine, its immediate and ultimate results have been entirely satisfactory. The method is not suitable for a large child with strong bones. Osteoclasia, or the forcible fracture under chloroform of bent bones by mechanical means, is a method of treat- ment which, I confess, does not commend itself to me. It has been somewhat extensively adopted, however, by various discreet British surgeons, and the fact of their continuing to employ it is sufficient proof to me that it can be exercised with safety and precision; but I prefer to divide a bent bone through a clean incision Avith an ordinary key-hole saw, rather than by a mechanical bone-breaker. Section of the biceps tendon, the ilio-tibial band, or the external lateral ligament, is an unscientific measure. Though