4 INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. in the minute from insignificant causes. During sleep the pulse is about ten beats slower. Towards the end of the examination the child should be asked to put out his tongue. If he refuse, and remain deaf to entreaty, a view may be generally obtained by compressing the cheeks between the finger and thumb ; on the next occasion he will probably yield at the first request. If a child complain of feeling ill, or be suspected of being out of sorts, it should be an invariable practice to inspect the throat (page 19), otherwise diphtheria or scarlet fever may occasionally advance without detection and without being suspected. Operations which are not urgently called for should be carried out only after careful consideration and preparation. Should there have recently been a case of scarlet fever in the ward or in the house, it will be advisable to postpone operation until time, and a thorough disinfection, shall have diminished to the utmost the risk of infection. The urine should be carefully examined for a day or two previously, especially for the presence of albumen. The throat and tongue should be inspected, and the morning’s record of the temperature be specially noted. These precau- tions are necessary in order that the child may not be submitted to active surgical interference when, perchance, he is sickening for measles, scarlet fever, or other zymotic disease. In some instances it is necessary that a cutting- operation be performed on a child Avhose urine is decidedly albuminous; as in the case of the child with albuminoid disease of the liver and kidneys, secondary to chronic suppu- rative arthritis (septic), or in the subject of interstitial nephritis from vesical calculus. But one should decline to operate for cleft palate, hiatus of bladder, or any other con- dition not included under the head of “ urgency,” unless the working of every organ be deemed efficient. If, for instance, the child were the subject of diarrhoea, or the bowels were unusually loose; if his appetite Avere failing, or if he Avere not looking Avell, any operation not deemed urgent had better be put off until he had settled doAvn again into good health. His body and limbs should be Avell covered up, and if the weather is at all cold, or if the operation is likely to be a long one, he had better be laid upon a hot-Avater mattress, so that the