DIFFERENTIAL DIA GNOSIS. 373 A joint and a radical dealing with the septic bone was the means of saving the limbs. When septic inflammation attacks the upper end of the tibial diaphysis, pus is apt to find its tvay into the knee joint by tracking upwards along the tendon of origin of the popliteus, which arises within the capsular ligament. Differential Diagnosis.—The two diseases with which septic cliaphysitis is most often confounded are acute rheu- matism and erysipelas. Of the two errors the former is by far the more common, and I have known even experienced practitioners commit it. The practitioner should in every case examine for himself and make his own diagnosis, as it is very easy to fall into error with cases of septic diaphy- sitis. Thus:—A boy of ten years is playing in the beginning of a thaw, sliding and snoAv-balling. He comes in with his boots and trousers wet through. Within a week of that occurrence—prob- ably because of it—staphylococci begin to cultivate themselves in the lower end of his femoral diaphysis. He complains of pains about his knee, which his mother attributes to rheumatism. So she puts him to bed and foments the knee. He gets steadily worse. In two days' she sends for the doctor, because, as she says, her boy has “ rheumatic fever.” The doctor finds that the temperature is 103° F. The skin about the knee is flushed and burning hot; there is swelling near the joint, and there is so much tenderness close above it that the boy will scarcely let him examine it, and he begs for the fomentation to be reapplied at once. Next day the boy is worse, in spite of the salicylic acid which was prescribed; he has not slept an hour; his temperature is a degree higher; he had a shiver during the night, and was “ wan- dering”; moreover, he has now acute septic inflamma- tion at the other shoulder, and, perhaps, some pycemic pericarditis. By gently pinching the femur between his finger and Fig. 88.—Septic Diaphy- sitis at upper end of Tibia; s, central ne- crosis ; A, pus finding its way into the knee joint, through E, E, the epiphysis. (From a case in the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street.)