205 POST-PHARYNG EAL ABSCESS'. have no experience. Enlargement of the tonsil after efficient amputation rarely happens. But if too small a slice of the mass be taken away, a second and more thorough operation will probably be demanded. If the uvula be long or <edematous, it is advisable to remove a portion of it at the time the tonsils are operated upon. A long uvula may, by keeping up a constant tickling about the back of the tongue, be the cause of spasmodic cough and of vomiting. The uvula should always be examined when a child suffers from a cough which is unassociated with thoracic symptoms. Such a cough may come on after drinking anything warm, or may be at its worst when the child lies down. Painting the throat with alum lotion may check the cough for a time, but the best treatment is amputation of the uvula by long toothed forceps and scissors. The scissors may have a crescentic notch in each cutting edge, so that the uvula cannot escape section. The uvula should be pulled well forwards before being cut. Post-pharyngeal abscess is considered in connection with spinal caries (page 261), to which condition it is frequently due. It may also be the result of inflammation in one of the lymphatic glands, or in the connective tissue at the front of the cervical vertebras, and especially so after the occurrence of scarlet fever or diphtheria. When an infant or young child refuses food and shows signs of dyspnoea, the attendant must not content himself with the mere inspection of the throat, but must make a careful exploration of the post- pharyngeal region by the finger, as the abscess is sometimes situated below the level of the tongue. It not infrequently happens that the child has suffered much ere the cause has been detected. Tuberculous disease of the naso-pharyngeal cavity is usually associated with other manifestations of the diathesis (page 56). The disease begins with swelling and suppuration in the follicular glands; abscesses burst, and the mucous discharge becomes purulent and stained with blood. Ulcera- tions being formed, the surface of the membrane becomes honeycombed or excavated. The ulcers may have a steep or undermined margin, and a greyish or bleeding floor. Healing