425 TUBERCULOUS HIP JOINT. had. a prejudicial, trophic influence (see page 412) upon the upper part of the femur, which, just below the trochanter, appears wanting in solidity and strength. There is, in fact, an obvious dwarfing of the femur and the haunch bone, and the measurements of the affected limb would show a very considerable and inevitable shortening. The plate thus shows that the shortening in old-standing hip joint disease is the result of a considerable number of causes. It also shows how absurd is the suggestion that it may be corrected by forcible manipulation and operation. Nevertheless, operative treatment has been recommended for lengthening the limb in these cases. As Dr. Macintyre remarks, the arrest of development of the os innominatum occurring in a female subject might have an important and a prejudicial influence from an obstetric point of view. Synostosis in faulty position should not be interfered with directly the disease appears at an end ; the patient’s health should be improved, and the parts allowed to con- solidate. The thigh must not be brought down by forcible manipulation, as this may awaken the old articular trouble; and, for the same reason, it is better to divide the bone below the trochanter than through the remains of the femoral neck, close to the seat of the disease which has only recently cleared off. Osteotomy is indicated. The best way of performing it is with a slender but trustworthy saw, just below the great trochanter. The course for the saw-blade through the muscles is cleared by a firm director. When the section of the bone is almost completed, a sudden and sharp jerk finishes the operation. Dry dressing and a splint are then applied. No attempt should be made at keeping up a false joint. I have performed this operation very frequently, and have every reason to speak well of it. The limb remains stiff) but in good position. The attempts which I have made to establish a false joint at the scat of osteotomy always ended in failure. Double hip-joint disease.—In several cases, the opposite joint has become quietly affected when the child has been lying many months in a position of perfect rest. Such children are best treated by Thomas’s double apparatus. The limbs must be placed in the straight position, for should