BRANCHIAL CYSTS. 179 thus, remnants of the visceral clefts, and may be effaced by a cautery needle, or by dissection. Branchial cysts are due to imperfect obliteration of the visceral clefts in their deeper parts, though their cutaneous portions have been duly effaced. They are round, ovoid, and smooth, and may contain mucus, atheromatous material, or blood. Should such a cyst become distended with a fluid which, when drawn off by aspiration, is found pale or amber- coloured, the condition might be called hydrocele of the neck. (See also “Congenital cystic hygroma,” page 130.) In the young child the cyst may not attract notice, but at any period its epi- thelial lining may become active. These cervical dermoids are sometimes mistaken for inflammatory or other swellings ; their situation in the line of the clefts, their soft- ness, and their freedom from inflammation and tenderness, and, perhaps, their chron- icity, are important points in their diagnosis. A cystic swelling in the exact middle line of the neck, or the fistula which results from its having burst or having been opened, is likely to be associated with the duct of His. Treatment.—If aspiration and the injec- tion of tincture of iodine fail, and if the cyst continue to grow, drainage with antiseptic precautions may be adopted, or, better still, an attempt may be made to remove it by dissection. But in proposing this, the possibility of the existence of deep and important connections must be borne in mind. Sometimes the dermoid communicates with the pharynx. (For “ Thyro-glossal cyst” see page 199.) Tracheocele.—From imperfect development of the trachea, hernial protrusions of its lining membrane may extend laterally into the neck. The tumours thus arising contain air and are resonant on percussion. They do not readily lend themselves to active treatment. Coloboma of eyelid.—Alter the eyeball is formed, two horizontal folds of integument approach each other, and meet at about the twelfth week. They are united by the epidermis Fig. 30.—Embryo at 6th week, show- ing : 1, Mandibu- lar Arch ; and 1, 1st Pharyngeal Cleft and Audi- tory Vesicle. The 2nd Cleft is still visible, but the 3rd and 4th Clefts are effaced. (Quain.)