324 INTUSS US CEP TION. instances, produced the disappearance of an intussusception, the child, under chloroform, being inverted and the abdominal , wall and the subjacent tumour kneaded. But if the tumour, which was evident previously, have now disappeared, it must not be concluded that the obstruction is relieved. 'The mass may merely have hidden itself behind coj}& of inflated intestine. To be successful, this treatment must, of course, be employed before the serous surfaces of the invaginated bowel have become adherent, and when once tried, there should be an end to the method. If it fail to do good, as it almost certainly will, it is likelyr to do harm to the inflamed tissues by disturbing and straining them. The cases in which it may possibly be of avail are early ones in which there is invagination of the small intestine into the large ; for fluid cannot pass back through the ileo-csecal valve. Intussuscep- tion of small intestine into small is of such very rare occurrence that, in a volume such as this, it may be practi- cally disregarded. Almost for certain the acute obstruction is due to intussusception at, but not through, the ileo- csecal valve. Intussusception of small intestine into small is, however, often met with post mortem; it apparently occurs in the dying. Distension of the bowel should be performed with the greatest care, as it is dangerous. If the child be inverted, about one pint of warm water may be allowed to enter the bowel by a flexible tube, through a funnel raised a foot or so above the buttocks. The bowel, especially if softened by inflammation, may easily give way under greater pressure. Abdominal section has too often been resorted to only when the child is in the very condition from which a bolder policy might have rescued it. The operation does not in itself entail a great risk, and the chief reason of its being regarded with such disfavour in these cases is that it has not been resorted to early enough. There can be no disguising the fact that the result of abdominal section for acute obstruction in children has hitherto been desperately bad. In cases in which an intussusception has been dis- covered the surgeon has not infrequently been compelled to close the abdomen without having been able to reduce the