EMPYEMA. 156 Empyema of both sides is sometimes met with in children, and it is, of course, a very serious condition. If both pleural abscesses were opened upon the same occasion, the child would be unlikely to survive. The operative treatment must therefore be approached cautiously, and, if time and circum- stances permit, aspiration should be performed before incision is done, in order that the area of useful lung-tissue may be increased. Then one side is to be opened, after which the lung will in all probability begin to expand. Some days later a piece of rib upon the other side may be resected, and by this time it is to be hoped that the lung first set free is well up to its work. Tube loose in chest.—Occasionally the surgeon is called to extract a tube from the pleural cavity. On slightly en- larging the wound, wedging the ribs asunder, and searching with the finger, the tube may generally be found, and extracted. A speculative search Avith forceps alone is apt to be unsuccessful and harmful. Flushing the cavity Avith a warm antiseptic solution might bring the tube to the opening; but neither probe nor forceps can disclose the Avhereabouts of an indiarubber tube. Resection of portion of many ribs (Estlander’s operation) has to be adopted Avhen the lung remains collapsed and bound to the spine, and the pleural discharge fails to diminish. The operation is resorted to in order that the chest-Avall may fall in and permanently obliterate the cavity. In young children, a natural obliteration of the cavity must duly take place by the falling in of the chest-Avall, the occurrence of a certain amount of lateral curvature, the elevation of the diaphragm, and the expansion of the opposite lung. Unless the evacua- tion of the empyema have been long delayed, and the lung be irretrievably damaged, the division of a series of ribs is not likely to be needed. That the expansion of the lung should begin before the opening in the chest-Avall is closed Avould seem a physiological impossibility. It does so, hoAvever, and to a great extent through the influence of the expansive force of the pulmonary air in coughing. There must not be too hurried a resort to Estlander’s operation; possibly Avith change of air the cavity Avill be obliterated or dAvindle doAvn into a mere sinus, which Avill