UNUNITED FRACTURES. 385 in a child who in every other respect was, as far as one could see, perfectly healthy. The wasted condition of the limb below the seat of fracture seems to me to suggest that the cause of non-union may possibly be due to some trophic influence following dis- turbances of the anterior cornu of the grey matter of the cord (pp. 163, 413) as the result of the fracture. So far as my experience goes, the result of active treat- ment in these cases is most unpromising, but I should be inclined in every case to give a thorough trial to the operation of freshening up the ends of the bones and securing the limb in gypsum splints. I have seen ununited fracture of the clavicle and in the ulna in children, but for them no operation had been desired. The humerus.—For fracture of the shaft of the humerus lateral splints of house flannel, stiffened with creamy plaster- of-Paris, form the most satisfactory retentive apparatus. The entire limb should be en- closed, from shoulder to wrist, the elbow being fixed at a right angle. The halves of the splint should not overlap, so that they can be readily loosened or taken off if the hand swells. The limb may be further steadied by being covered ljyr the cinglet. If the child make persistent complaint of discomfort, the limb must be inspected. Children do not complain without cause ; perhaps a piece of hardened splint is pressing unevenly, or one turn of the roller has become tightened, or an abscess is forming about the fracture. At all events, the limb must be examined and secured again. It gives comfort gently to rub the bared limb in the direction of the venous return before reapplying the bandage, but the mere readjustment may afford relief. The limb should be kept at rest for four weeks, but it should be gently massaged from time to time, (big. 90 shows epiphyseal lines of humerus.) Fracture may take place through the upper epiphyseal junction. The line of the cartilage is not quite horizontal, Epiphyses, and Inner Condyle detached.