BOILS. 146 inflammatory tension is relieved by puncture, the child may suffer much. The usual seats for boils are the back of the neck, the knee, buttock, and arm-pit; in fact, wherever by friction the micrococci are likely to be worked into the skin. In the eyelid the inflammation begins in connection with a ciliary follicle, the disease being then called a stye. Boils may generally be taken as evidence of the child being out of health. The boy who is home from school, and eats, drinks, and sleeps more than he has been accustomed to do is apt to break out in boils; so also is he whose diet is insufficient, and whose general tone is depressed. The explanation is that if his tissues were perfectly healthy the micrococci would not have been able to obtain a foothold in them. Weakness predisposes to boils. Treatment.—An overfed subject should be supplied with less food, and the poor-looking and underfed one put on a liberal diet of meat and fresh vegetables. Iron and quinine tonics, or the laxative iron tonic, may be prescribed, but no internal remedy is of special value, the disease being a localised septic disease. Change of air may be of great efficacy. The condition of the urine should be inquired into, and the bowels kept well open. The acutely inflamed and tense tissues may be relieved by puncture with a lancet, the wound being then dressed with a scrap of lint dipped in a solution of carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate, and covered with a piece of oil-silk. Poulticing is apt to set up irritation, and by helping inoculation to determine the outbreak of smaller boils. The adjoining tissue should be thoroughly washed with mercuric lotion, and then smeared with vaseline, to prevent inoculation of the adjacent hair-follicles by the micro-organisms. It is well to touch each inflamed spot with a strong solution of carbolic acid (1 in 4) on a pointed match. Keloid is a pinkish outgrowth of fibrous tissue, starting from a recent cicatrix; but as its blood-vessels are gradually obliterated by the inevitable contraction of the scar tissue of which it is composed, it becomes white. It frequently follows scalds, burns, scraping operations for lupus, vaccinia, and varicella, and I have known it started by the application of a poultice to the chest of a weak child; though it may be