REDUCIBLE INGUINAL IIERNIA. 352 down the testis and imprison the bowel, but the com- plication is an unsatisfactory one for palliative measures. If, in the performance of the operation, the testicle be found fully developed and easily separable, it may be brought down and secured in the scrotum. But if translation do not seem practicable, or the gland be undeveloped, it had better be removed. The operation is likely to be attended with per- fect success, for the inguinal canal can then be completely and permanently closed. When Mr. J. J. Clarke was my house-surgeon at St. Mary’s Hospital, we had several opera- tions for the radical cure of congenital hernia in adults in which the protrusion was associated with an imperfectly developed testis; and careful microscopic examination of each gland after its removal proved it to be destitute of spermatozoa, and, therefore, of no physiological value. Mr. Crowle, moreover, tells me that in five other cases in which I had removed an atrophied testis 'which was associated with congenital inguinal hernia in adults, the gland was in each instance destitute of seminal filaments. When the imper- fectly developed testis is removed, together with the open funicular process, the cure of the hernia is almost certain to be effected, for the inguinal canal can then be completely closed. The argument for preserving an undeveloped testis when performing a radical operation for hernia is only sentimental, and, in my opinion, should not be re- garded. When estimating the risks of the radical treatment, it must be remembered that, unless the boy is perfectly cured of his hernia, he will be every day of his life in peril of a knuckle of bowel becoming strangulated. And if the stran- gulation occur at a time Avhen, and at a place where, adequate assistance is not forthcoming, the risk will, indeed, be great. Far better is it for the time of operating upon a congenital hernia to be left to the choice of the surgeon, than that it be forced upon the patient later in life by blind chance, when the bowel has been caught and strangulated. If death folloAV the operation of radical treatment of hernia, it may be due to peritonitis, or blood-poisoning; and though the chances of that contingency are small in clean and careful surgery, still, the occurrence is within the range