261 TREATMENT OF SPINAL ABSCESS. removing tlie jacket—as by briskly drawing up and down beneath the cinglet a piece of linen which has been damped and soaped. One great advantage of the gypsum treatment is that the jacket is never taken off by the nurse or mother, so that rest is continuous. (I strongly disapprove of the jacket being split up the front, and so rendered movable.) Another advantage is that it is cheap, whilst it can also be applied by the medical man without extraneous help. The poroplastic jacket, serviceable as it is, cannot be fitted by every surgeon, and it possesses the disadvantages of being movable and expensive. The treatment of spinal abscess is not always a satis- factory affair, even if the wound be kept aseptic. Many a child begins slowly to sink when the abscess is interfered with. But the abscess must be evacuated sooner or later, and it is much better to deal with it when it is small than when it is large. Nothing is gained by delay, and it is beyond question that the abscess had better be opened by art than left to nature. Repeated tapping by the aspirator may be beneficial when the pus is thin, but my experience is that the scalpel has generally to supplement the aspirator. Still, if the pressure-symptoms be not urgent, the aspirator should be tried, the withdrawal of pus being repeated at intervals of a few days, so that the cavity has not the chance of re-filling. A single aspiration rarely suffices; repeated trials, however, may accomplish a permanent cure. During the treatment the child must be kept absolutely at rest. Tapping with the cannula and trochar is, sure to lead to disappointment, from pus leaking out by the Avound and the abscess becoming septic. Post-pharyngeal abscess.—There may at first be no aggravation in the symptoms of the cervical caries Avith the formation of the abscess, but as the bulging of the pharynx increases, “ sore throat ” may be complained of, Avith difficulty in SAvalloAving, and even in breathing. Ordinary inspection of the throat may not suffice to detect the abscess; the index- finger must explore the back of the pharynx. If pus be there, a doughy swelling, or even definite fluctuation, is de- tected. There may be also a bulging in the neck, most likely behind the angle of the jaAV. Solids cannot pass through the