151 EMPYEMA. or the chest wall to fall in; and in varying proportions all these conditions may obtain at the same time. The end of the needle may be manifestly free in a large collection of fluid, and the aspirator may be in perfect working order, yet no fluid escape on setting the apparatus in train. In the case of consolidation or tumour of the lung there may be a little serum in the pleura, as the hypodermic syringe may evince, but not enough to serve the large aspirator. Care must be taken that every joint of the instrument is air-tight. Sometimes, as is demonstrated by the subsequent introduction of the finger, the cause of the dry tapping is a tough veil of organised lymph, hung as a lining to the pleura, which the trochar, failing to traverse, pushes before it into the fluid. Therefore the instrument should be sharp, and it should always be sent in with a short, sharp thrust. Empyema.—A simple hydro-thorax is likely to become purulent; the first and second aspirations may give clear serum, but after this the fluid is apt to be sero-purulent. Suppuration is probably determined by the inoculation of pneumococci or staphylococci, with the bacteria of tuberculosis on the pleural surface. These germs may have found their way thither from' a tonsillitis or other septic focus. Symptoms may have already made the medical attendant suspicious of the nature of the fluid—such, for instance, as shiverings, or even convulsions, with elevation of tem- perature, vomiting, sweats, and increasing distress. As a tentative measure, aspiration may be tried, for the removal of a certain amount of pus is in rare instances followed by absorption of the rest. Even in the case of a large pleural abscess a single tapping occasionally suffices to establish convalescence. But if the child show little or no real im- provement after the tapping, the pleural abscess must be treated on the principles which guide us in dealing with a collection of pus in any other cavity. The longer the delay in evacuat- ing it, the greater the risk of the lung being rendered permanently useless, and of purulent extravasations, of pyaemia, of hectic, and of albuminoid disease. If the collection of pus remain uninterfered with, it may discharge itself spontaneously through an intercostal space or a bronchial tube; or it may burst through the diaphragm and give rise