95 CBAN 10- TABES. subsidence of the enlargement under specific treatment should make the case clear enough. Dactylitis.—When periostitis occurs in a syphilitic child, the phalanges of the fingers and toes are apt to swell and break down under the disintegrating ostitis; but there is, as a rule, less discoloration of the skin in syphilitic than in tuberculous dactylitis (page 61). I agree with Mr. G. A. Wright in thinking that syphilitic dactylitis is more often described than met with. Personally, I know very little about syphilitic dactylitis, and I think that it is rare. Tuber- culous dactjditis is not unlikely to occur in the subject of hereditary syphilis. Nodes may be found upon the long bones as well as upon the skull. They vary in size with the general constitutional condition, and may undergo almost complete absorption. They are likely to be a late manifestation of the hereditary taint. Warmth and careful feeding, iodide of potassium, cod-liver oil and iron, together with an occasional course of mercurial inunction effect their disappearance. Cranio-tabes has been alluded to in the chapter on rickets (page 68); but in connection with hereditary syphilis Elsasser, Barlow, and Lees have directed attention to an abnormal thinness of portions of the parietal and occipital bones, causing them to yield to moderate pressure, and to impart to the finger pressed upon them a sensation like that derived from stiff parchment, or from the surface of a dry bladder. These patches are probably the result of delayed ossification of the skull walls. Theirexistence is not proof of syphilis. They are often found in those who are neither syphilitic nor rickety, but simply ill-nourished. Neverthe- less, a great proportion of infants with cranio-tabes are syphilitic. The thinning may be due to compression of the ossifying wall of the skull between the brain and the nurse’s arm, or the pillow. It may occur only on the side upon which the infant is generally laid. It is when a Fig. 13.—Frontal Bosses (Par- rot’s Nodes) in a Sypliilitio Child. (See next page.)