379 INCOMPLETE FRACTURE. muscular attachments be not torn through, there will be no displacement. The periosteum is thick and tough, and steadies the fractured surfaces, and, as a rule, the bone breaks straight across, like a carrot. To inquire for crepitus in such circumstances is unnecessary; it might damage the peri- osteum, or convert a partial into a complete fracture. In children, fracture is apt to be situated at the line of an epiphyseal cartilage, in which circumstances crepitus might not be definitely obtainable except by violence. Chloroform may not be required for the examination unless the fracture be near a joint; but if the child screams, or the surgeon is in doubt, anaesthesia must be resorted to. If, after careful examination, the surgeon be unable definitely to ascertain the existence of fracture, the limb should certainly be dealt with, at any rate for the time, as if that lesion existed. Cases of this sort need great care and circumspection; otherwise a fracture may be overlooked, and, treatment being omitted, non-union may occur. With due care, the surgeon will, at any rate, render himself secure against future anxiety and accusation. He will do well, moreover, to make it a rule to carry out a careful exam- ination of the elbow in every case of injury to arm or fore-arm, as the head of the radius may slip from the orbicular ligament, or an epiphysis or a condyle may be detached without any very obvious local signs. In certain delicate, but otherwise healthy children, the skeleton is extremely brittle, one long bone after another breaking from slight injury, and perhaps on more than one occasion. The fact of firm consolidation taking place under appropriate treatment is evidence of the non-malignant nature of the condition. The term usually applied to it is fragilities ossiuvi. The child requires careful supervision, rest, massage, fresh air, good food, and medicinal tonics. The greater the proportion of animal matter in the growing bone, the greater is the liability for the hone to be bent without its tissue being entirely broken through. There are two varieties of this incomplete fracture—the bone may be broken half-way through, whilst the other part is only bent, or it may be bent without real breakage having occurred. The term green-stick “ fracture,” which is applied