326 INTUSSUSCEPTION. ■ A short time since I was called to see a pase of intussus- ception which had been treated “ in the usual way ”—that is to say, the child had been given enemata by funnel and tubing, and had been duly manipulated from without. The intussusception remained, the abdomen was slightly distended, the child was collapsed, and the outlook was hopeless. I at once made a small incision in the right linea semilunaris, and, inserting my finger, found the intestinal sheath rent and the invaginated portion protruding through it. I need hardly say that the child quickly succumbed. In the Lancet of 1895 Mr. Houghton gave a table of sixteen successful laparotomies for acute intussusception in infants. From this it appears that the average duration of the symptoms in the successful cases was thirty-two hours, in no less than ten of the cases it was twenty-four hours or less, and in only three cases was it two days. These facts teach that, if laparotomy is to be attempted with reasonable chance of success, it must not be deferred longer than twenty-four hours from the onset. The shock caused by abdominal section has often been confounded with that produced by the disease itself and by the previous attempts at reduction by inflation and injection. But for occasional reports of successful injec- tion, professional opinion would long since have solidly settled down in the line of recommending abdominal section so soon as ever intussusception is certainly diagnosed. The incision should be in the linea alba in those cases in which a tumour is to be made out in the middle line or to the left of it; but if the mass be in the right iliac fossa, the peri- toneal cavity may be opened by a curved incision near the front of that iliac crest, or through the linea semilunaris. With a tumour in the right iliac fossa, there is certainly in- vagination at the ileo-csecal valve ; when the tumour is in the left fossa, it may still be invagination at the valve, but it had better not be sought through the left semilunar line, lest, if an artificial anus have to be made, the ascending colon be dragged a needless distance across the peritoneal cavity. The median incision serves best in the general run of cases. During the operation, and especially so if there is no hot- water mattress and the room has not been warmed, the child’s