22 DIPHTHERIA. parts of the fauces are highly suggestive of diphtheria; they quickly become covered with the grey film. Nasal diphtheria may be the starting, or a complication of the attack, and is often of an extremely virulent form. The discharge excoriates the nostrils, and may even set up der- matitis of the lip; it is sometimes associated with epistaxis and with the escape of shreds of false membrane. The local treat- ment consists in, if practicable, hourly syringings with warm sanitas lotion, the child being placed upon his side and the injection being made by the upper nostril. The injection returns partly by the other nostril and partly by the mouth, and if some of it enter the stomach no harm is done, as might occur if a mercuric or carbolic wash were used. The flakes of false membrane which come from the nasal fossae are not so firm as those from the pharynx. The dyspnoea is due partly to the muscles of the vocal cords being thrown out of working order (so that when an inspiration is taken the cords are driven into the rima by atmospheric pressure), but chiefly to the blocking of the glottis by false membrane. When expiration is prolonged and diffi- cult, as well as inspiration, the presence of obstruction from exudation is evident; prolonged and noisy expiration is, there- fore, a bad sign. The dyspnoea may come on in paroxysms, the child being comparatively comfortable between the attacks. A surgeon arriving, by chance, during the peaceful interval, must not fall into the error of underrating the urgency of the case, and promptly deciding against the need of tracheotomy. He should at least wait before deciding against operating. As the dyspnoea increases, the veins of the head and neck swell, the pale face becomes dusky, and the extremities grow cold. Then drowsiness steals in. Death may supervene from carbonic-acid poisoning, bronchitis, pneumonia, pyaemia, or exhaustion ; but the child often remains sensible till death is close at hand. Albuminuria is by no means a constant symptom; though it does not necessarily forebode ill, its presence is ominous. It is associated Avith parenchymatous inflammation of the kid- neys and haemorrhages, and may appear as early as the first day of the disease, but it does not occur in all cases. It is due to irritation of the renal tissue by absorption of the toxic