LARYNGITIS. 36 become extreme, intubation or tracheotomy will be de- manded. Indeed, this is the kind of case for which intuba- tion is specially suited. Laryngismus stridulus, or laryngeal asthma, is a spasmodic affection of certain muscles about the glottis preventing the ingress of air. It is particularly apt to occur in weakly male children, and between the ages of two months and two years, especially in the rickety. The later it appears the less amenable is it, as a rule, to treatment. Frequently it is associated with tetany. The distress comes on Avithout Avarning, the child Avaking up in the night in great alarm. It often appears Avith Aveaning, and seems to be directly caused by improper feeding. There is no fever, expectoration, or cough, the condition being probably the effect of some disturbance of the pneumogastric nerve or of its recurrent branch. The mucous membrane of the larynx is unaffected and the Amice unchanged. Sometimes the attack is solitary, but it may be repeated at intervals ; urine and ffeces may be voided during a paroxysm. The carbonic acid intoxication caused by the spasm renders the reflex centres torpid; thereupon the contraction yields, and the breathing becomes calm again. In those instances in Avhich the spasm is associated with convulsions, the prospect is serious, and the case may end fatally. Possibly this is not an infrequent cause of sudden death in Aveakly infants, Avho, it has been supposed, have been overlaid. The disease is probably caused by a toxaemia Avhich is the result of the absorption of products of imperfect digestion. The diagnosis rests chiefly on the facts that the attack comes on suddenly and without elevation of temperature; that, having passed oft', the infant resumes its normal aspect, the air coursing quietly through the glottis, and that the cry or the Amice is unaffected Avhen the attack is over. Treatment,—The condition of the alimentary canal and of the gums must be inquired into, and special care be given to the matter of feeding. If the disease be indeed a neurosis of a branch of the pneumogastric, its dependence on indigestible food is intelligible. The child is most likely rickety; this condition, therefore, must receive special attention. Hand-fed