TUBERCULOSIS. 66 complete, the bladder and rectum being evacuated uncon- sciously. On ophthalmoscopic examination the retina is found congested, and tubercular deposits may be detected in the fundus. Treatment and prognosis.—No treatment seems of avail when once the diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis definitely declares itself. Mercury, iodide and bromide of potassium, anodynes, purgatives, and leeches; cold to the head and blis- ters afford but temporary relief. If the child be constantly sick, it is useless to give medicines by the mouth. When milk cannot be kept down, nutrient enemata may be adminis- tered ; but it is first expedient that the bowels be thoroughly cleared, either by a full dose of calomel and jalap, or by a simple enema. The room should be kept dark and quiet; lint soaked in iced water may be applied to the head. The bladder may require attention. In the case of little children in which the acute effusion of meningitis is rendered obvious by the bulging of the fontanelles, temporary relief may be offered by trephining the skull, or by draining off the cerebro-spinal fluid through a puncture in the loin. At the best, I fear that this measure is only the treatment of a symptom of the disease; so far as we know, the withdrawal of the fluid does not influence the advance of the tubercular deposit in the pia mater, which is the cause of the disease. My own position as regards lumbar puncture is that, in that it relieves the great tension of the membranes and pressure upon the cerebral tissue, it “does something,” but that, in the present state of our exqierience with it, I am not able to urge its adoption. Multiple abscesses in infants at the breast.—A succes- sion of abscesses in the subcutaneous connective tissue, and even in the intermuscular spaces, are occasionally met with in infants at the breast. It is by no means satisfactory to ascribe them, as Bouchat has done, to syphilis or tubercle. I am disposed to attach a close connection between them and a chronic form of blood-poisoning, the result, perhaps, of infection at the truncated umbilical cord. Koulland reports the case of an infant who was in a satisfactory condition as regards health and surroundings till he was Aveaned, Avhen he Avas attacked Avith diarrhoea. The abscesses which then