149 PARACENTESIS THOR A CIS. diagnosis is not always easy. In some cases it can be effected only by an exploratory puncture with a trustworthy hypo- dermic syringe, or a special exploring syringe. Paracentesis thoracis.—The apparatus used will be a fine, sterilised cannula and trochar, or an aspirator; the point of the instrument must be sharp, so that it is certain to pass through the thickened and tough parietal pleura. The side of the chest and the instrument must be perfectly clean ; and if the aspirator be employed, the operation had better be previously rehearsed with hot water, for the piston may be too tight, or require more “ packing ” ; taps may be stiff, or their working not perfectly understood, the needle may be stuck in the cannula, the indiarubber tube may be leaking, or some joint may not be air-tight. The complete aspirator of Dieulaf'oy may be used; but the simpler one, Avhich is extemporised out of an ordinary wine-bottle, is quite as serviceable, and it is less likely to get out of order. Porritt recommends a piece of indiarubber tubing, of fV in. bore, and long enough to reach from the patient’s chest to the floor. The lower end is weighted with a piece of lead, so that it may remain beneath some carbolic solution in the vessel in which the fluid is to be received. The other end is secured to one of Dieulafoy’s open cannulas, not less than three inches long. The trochar is made to enter the cannula by being thrust into the tubing close to the cannula. As soon as the trochar is withdrawn, the puncture in the Avail of the tubing is obliterated, no air is admitted, and the paracentesis is conducted Avith perfect asepticity. Unless the child be very apprehensive, chloroform need not be administered. If given, it should be Avith great care and watchfulness, the child being laid on the Avater-logged side of the chest. The site of puncture should be just in front of the inferior angle of the scapula, so that the diaphragm may be out of reach of the end of the needle. The pleural cavity Avill not be completely emptied by the one aspiration or puncture, but very likely after the chief part of the fluid has thus been withdrawn the rest will be quickly absorbed. Brandy or ether should lie at hand, for sub- cutaneous injection, in case of faintness supervening. The skin having been blanched by ice and salt, the sharp