55 HAEMOPHILIA. flow away in a full stream. It is always from many capillaries,, rather than from a large vessel, that the bleeding takes place, and it is persistent rather than energetic. If a surgeon knew that a child comes of a “ bleeder family, or had suffered from spontaneous haemorrhage, he should decline to operate, except in the case of extreme urgency. When a cutting operation is demanded, it may be expedient to perform it with the thermo-cautery; abscesses should be allowed to open spontaneously. Should the child grow up, the taint will probably render him ill-fitted for the struggle for existence. A late house surgeon of mine, at St. Mary’s Hospital, who has been worried from his childhood upwards by this dia- thesis, performed his duties constantly and efficiently, not- withstanding the occasional presence of a collection of blood in his knee-joint or elbow. Of the pathology nothing definite is known; it may be a disease of blood, or of blood-vessels, or of both. All treat- mient is unsatisfactory. The bleeding child should be put to bed, and if the haemorrhage be from an extremity, or into a joint, the limb should be fixed to a splint. Neither suture nor cautery should be used, as this would be followed by ulcera- tion or sloughing. The spot may be dressed with dry cotton- wool secured with gentle pressure. Opium should be given in small and repeated doses, and the fact that “ Ruspini’s styptic ” is a patent medicine need not preclude a trial being made of it. Iron and cod-liver oil may be given, and any drug or food which is likely to improve the general condition. Ergot and turpentine are highly spoken of also ; but no drug has yet been found of specific influence. Even in extreme cases transfusion should not be resorted to, as the necessary incision may give rise to bleeding which may be equally unmanageable. Warm saline injections may be administered by the rectum, but alcoholic stimulants must be avoided. Fresh air, sunshine, cleanliness, and warmth, are of the utmost importance. If unusual vascular fulness give warn- ing ot an attack, the child may be treated by free purgation; indeed, it is a most important matter to see that the bowels never become confined. (Epistaxis, page 209.)