TUBERCULOUS INFLAMMATION OF EPIDIDYMIS. 341 but before this is discovered the patient has probably passed from under supervision. Atrophy is due to pressure by effusion within the fibrous capsule. Immediate relief to the tension may be obtained by a few punctures by a grooved needle. The application of a lotion of lead and opium does not meet the urgent demands, but the leech is of great service. If the testis remain thickened from chronic in- flammatory effusion, the scrotum may be strapped. Tuberculous inflammation of the testis, or, rather, of the epididymis, is not infrequently met with in children, and I have seen several instances of it in very young infants. Hereditary taint predisposes the epididymis to the invasion of the bacilli, and children have sometimes been born with tuberculous epididymitis. A blow or a kick upon the scrotum may start an orchitis or epididymitis, and the part may be then invaded by the bacilli of tuberculosis Avkicli may be circulating in the child’s blood, and on the look-out, as it were, for an area of diminished resistance. The variety of the disease usually met with in children is of the chronic form rather than of small tubercular nodules scattered through the gland. Symptoms.—By chance, on drying the boy after his bath, the nurse or mother notices an enlargement in the scrotum, but, finding it free from tenderness and pain, she may for a time give it no further heed. When the surgeon sees it, he finds it hard, and irregular in outline, nodular and painless. The skin over it is neither oedematous nor discoloured, but, on careful comparison Avith the other side, the vas deferens is probably enlarged, and possibly the testis also. Some- times it happens that both testicles are affected at the same time. Rectal examination may prove the \resicula seminalis to be enlarged. Diagnosis has to be made from syphilis and from sarcoma. In congenital syphilis the testis, rather than the epididymis, is attacked, the swelling having a smoother outline and being less hard than in tuberculous disease. There is more likely to be hydrocele Avith it ; scars at the mouth or anus, or some other signs (page 89), point to the specific nature, and the SAvelling subsides under mercurial inunction. The fact of the tuberculous disease implicating the