487 CHILBLAINS. tender, red, and liot; after a time the acute symptoms subside. The dead portion of the diaphysis determines a growth of granulation-tissue in the surrounding bone, and in due course the pea-like sequestrum lies loose in a suppurating cavity walled in with granulations. If the case be allowed to drift on, nature may arrange for the extrusion of the sequestrum by forming an .abscess on the inner or outer side of the calcaneum. But sometimes she clears an upward track for the evacuation through the astragalo-calcanean articulation, involving, maybe, a wreckage of the ankle joint itself. If after the operation. the case do not progress, the in- dolent tissue may be improved by scraping with a Yolkmann spoon. Excision may prove extremely satisfactory. The excision is best performed by turning forwards all the soft parts from beneath the heel. But if many tedious months of expectant treatment hold out no hope of recovery, the supervision having been thorough, and the surroundings the best obtainable in the circumstances; if the boy be going backwards rather than improving, the question of amputation must be considered. But, seeing what can be effected by time and rest, it is well that Syme’s amputation be not hastily resorted to. The metatarsus is often associated with the tarsus in tuberculous disease; sometimes one or more of these long bones are affected whilst the tarsus remains apparently sound. The remarks made concerning the treatment of tarsal disease apply also to the disease of the fore part of the foot. Chilblains are inflamed patches of skin produced by cold. They are met with chiefly on the feet and hands, as these parts are far removed from the centre of circulation ; they may also appear upon the ears or nose. They are less apt to occur in bright, frosty weather than in the thaw which follows. Girls suffer from them more than boys, as their circulation is less vigorous, and they are not generally accus- tomed to keep it brisk in cold weather by exercise. The local inflammation is caused by paralysis of the capillaries, exuda- tion taking place into the substance of the cutis. Tuberculous children arc very liable to chilblains, as their tissues are feeble and their circulation is languid. o