EXTRAVASATION OF TJ1UNE. 2S9 retention, the preputial orifice be occluded, circumcision should be performed forthwith. If neither preputial nor urethral opening be defective, a small calculus may possibly be found, by pinching the glans, or by sounding, lodged within the fossa navicnlaris, and blocking the outlet; on enlarging the meatus, the calculus is easilv turned out. If it be impacted farther down the penile part of the urethra, it can probably be removed by slender forceps after the urethra has been fully dilated; but if it be too tightly wedged to be thus extracted, the surgeon must cut directly down upon it. If it be lodged in the perinseal part of the urethra, there may be no difficulty in pushing it into the bladder for disposal by lithotrity; but if firmly fixed, it must be removed by a direct incision. Retention of urine may also occur from rupture of the urethra by a blow; the presence of bruising upon the skin of the perineum or scrotum, together with the history, will show what is wrong. Blood may escape from the meatus, or signs of urinary extravasation may be present. In the latter case, an efficient incision in the median line is needed. On convalescence being established, the boy will require years of surgical supervision, lest intractable traumatic stricture supervene. Soft catheters of small size, as used for adults, may be passed into the bladder of the child. If a metal catheter is wanted—as in the case of a ruptured urethra—a male catheter, of about No. .5 or 6 of the English scale, ma}r be conveniently bent and passed. Extravasation of urine may be the result of a stone impacted in the urethra, or of a blow upon the perinseum. Whatever the cause, the treatment is the same; a free opening must be made into the urethra, or into the urinary abscess, down to the urethra, so as to ensure the complete escape of the urine. If there be no history of injury, the surgeon must sound for impacted stone; but if there have been considerable suppuration or sloughing, he may fail to find it on that occasion. If urine have infiltrated the scrotum, penis, or the in- guinal region, incisions are required, and careful irrigations with a warm solution of boracic or carbolised water. The