119 MYELOID SARCOMA. A sarcoma does not act in that manner, hut rather by re- placing the ' bone in its centrifugal growth until only the periosteum is left. The periosteum is expanded over the sarcoma, but as it is not invaded by the sarcoma it continues to form in its deeper part a thin layer of bone, which is eventually spread somewhat unevenly over the surface of the 'growth. Sometimes the pulsating tumour is highly suggestive of aneurysm, especially when, as in -the case of the lower end of the femur, the expansion of the bone is near to an artery. On compression of the main trunk in either case, the tumour would diminish in size, but on remitting pressure an aneu- rysmal sac would at once fill up, whilst a vascular tumour might need’two or three heats of the heart for its complete distension. Central sarcoma of the end of a bone very rarely invades a joint. It pushes off the articular cartilage, however, and, causing disturbance of, and effusion into, the joint, may lead the surgeon to regard the case as one of arthritis. When, therefore, thickening occurs about the lower end of the femur soon after an injury, and effusion takes place into the knee- joint, the surgeon may have great difficulty for a Avhile in diagnosing myeloid sarcoma from traumatic arthritis. In two conspicuous instances I failed in this respect; in each case amputation was eventually performed. In one of the children the disturbance of the knee-joint was so vigorous, and the pain and tenderness were so great, that several surgeons besides myself took the case to be one of acute traumatic arthritis, for which we urged immediate amputation. After the operation we found a myeloid sarcoma springing from the end of the femoral diaphysis and bursting through the epiphysis into the joint. The boy eventually died of recur- rence in the other femur and in the sacrum. I have ventured to place under the heading of “ myeloid sarcoma ” the drawing of a specimen of tuberculous abscess of the end of a diaphysis, in order that it may be seen how easily the case might have been mistaken for one of central new growth. It may also act as a reminder that in the case of obscure enlargement at the end of a diaphysis, incision should be made into the mass, and a thorough exploration, before the limb is condemned for amputation. (Fig. IS.)