334 FRACTURES. having divided the tendon of Achilles, I placed the leg straight in lateral splints of plaster-of-Paris. The wound healed without rise of temperature. Considerable care was expended over the after-treatment, but all was in vain. The boy’s leg remained small, deformed, and useless, and it was eventually amputated at St. George’s Hospital. The second case Avas that of Charlotte IT., three years. She Avas born at full time; the labour Avas lingering, and the midwife Avas officious. Three days aftenvards the mother noticed that the infant’s right leg was bent, and that she cried Avhen it Avas moved. Three Aveeks later the mother took the child to a doctor, Avho secured the limb in plaster- of-Paris splints for three months, and subsequently said that the child must not be put on her feet “ for a very long Avhile.” The child had never Avalked. There Avas nothing to suggest either rickets or syphilis. When she Avas tAvo years old she was admitted into the Great Ormond Street Hospital for an ununited fracture beloAV the middle of the right tibia and fibula, Avith considerable angular deformity in front. I ex- posed and freshened up the ends of the tibia and fibula. The Achilles tendon Avas divided, and the limb Avas fixed upon a back-splint Avith a foot-piece. The temperature remained normal. At the end of a fortnight the first dressing was done, and gypsum side-splints were applied, Avhich the child Avas Avearing Avhen she Avas sent home at the end of another fortnight. The leg proved flail-like and useless, and eventually I had to amputate it, though, Avith the kind help of Mr. Spencer, I previously and unsuccessfully tried the effect of grafting bone-fragments from the humerus of a puppy that was sacrificed for the purpose. In his article on “Ununited Fractures in Children,” Sir James Paget said that he could only guess at a possible explanation of the cause of measures usually sufficient for the cure of this defect in adults being, in three cases which he had met Avith in children, “ completely useless.” He threw out the suggestion that the bones affected may have been the seat of a localised morbid condition of the nature of osteomalacia, though he did not offer a suggestion as to Avhy a general disease of the osseous system should be limited to a single bone, nor Avhy it should occur at all