30 DIPHTHERIA. transient form of the disease. In one case a child was Avell advanced in convalescence after a mild attack of diphtheria, and in the morning was found hemiplegic and unable to speak. Very gradually did muscular power return. An erratic selection of certain groups of muscles for paralysis—those of the soft palate and larynx to begin with, and then those of the orbit, trunk, or extremities—affords unmistakable evi- dence of the paralysis being a diphtheritic complication. Even after the subsidence of the diphtheria the reflexes should be daily examined. Exaggeration of knee-jerk may foretell a coming paralysis, although the muscles of the lower extremities themselves may never be affected; then, after a while the knee-jerk may be lost, although merely the palatine muscles are paralysed. On rare occasions, moreover, trophic lesions of the joints are associated with affection of the muscles, synovitis oc- curring. The knees are the most likely joints to be attacked. The prognosis is uncertain. When the branches of nerve which are associated with circulation, or preside over re- spiration, are involved, the prognosis is more unfavourable than when only the nerves of the palate or extremities are implicated. Sometimes the fact of a slight and transient “ sore throat ” having been diphtheritic is recognised only by the subsequent occurrence of a squint, or some other paralysis. Paralysis may follow diphtheria confined to a wound or to the genitals. It is very important to remember that a child with diphtheritic paralysis is apt to convey infection. Treatment.—The child should be kept constantly in bed in the recumbent position. Strychnia and belladonna, as a tonic to respiratory muscles, may be tried, and, later, galvanism. The belladonna may be given every hour in doses of from five to twenty minims of the tincture. A boy under my care with phrenic paralysis, Avliose bronchi Avere loaded Avith mucus, and Avho, on account of diphtheritic paralysis of the pharynx, Avas unable to SAvalloAv, Avas success- fully treated by the hourly administration of gr. Ao °f atropine hypodermically. One minim of liq. strychnise with one minim of liq. atropire may be given beneath the skin until a definite result is obtained. The most important matter is to keep up the nutrition of the child if deglutition be