340 ENCYSTED HYDROCELE. external abdominal ring must be quite clear. When it has been steadied and fixed by the fingers and thumb, a hypo- dermic needle may be thrust into it. About half a tea- spoonful of pale serum escapes, and the tumour disappears, perhaps for ever ; but it may possibly require a second tapping. Obscure swellings in the inguinal region, even if translucent, should never be injected, as they may communicate with the peritoneal cavity. They may, however, be safely removed by dissection, and this is by far the best method of radical treatment. Encysted hydrocele in the canal of Nuck.—Close below the external abdominal ring is a round, hard swelling, perhaps small enough to be pushed up into the inguinal canal, from which it descends again, unaltered in size. On pulling it down towards the labium it is found to have no definite connection with the interior of the abdomen. It may have been noticed for days or weeks as a hard, painless swelling. It is rarely large enough for examination by trans- mitted light. Puncture by a needle confirms the diagnosis and disposes of the tumour. It may possibly recur, in which case it should be dissected away. Haemorrhage into the scrotum or along the spermatic cord may be met Avith in neAvly-born infants, especially after breech presentation. Patience will clear up the diagnosis. It is hardly likely that the dusky swelling Avould be mistaken for melanotic sarcoma. Before resorting to castration in a doubtful case, exploratory incision should be practised. Acute orchitis may be the result of a kick or blow, or of sudden and forcible adduction of the thighs. In childhood it is rarely a sequel of mumps. Acute epididymitis may be due to irritation or abrasion of the urethral mucous membrane, such as may follow the escape of a vesical calculus or the passage of an instrument. If the epididymitis be secondary to urethral irritation, the A\as deferens is swollen and tender along the back of the cord. With acute inflammation of the testis or epididymis, the child is in great distress, the scrotum being red and sAvollen. He should be placed upon his back in bed ; a full dose of castor oil should be given, and a leech may be applied. Acute inflammation is apt to be folloAved by atrophy of the gland,