TRACHEOTOMY. 46 blades of the dilator. It gives no trouble, and it can be cleaned with a feather; moreover, it is not apt to set up ulceration or necrosis of cartilage, or to cause secondary haemorrhage. It has no opening on its upper surface, but one can easily be made with a pair of scissors. When changing the tube, a bivalve metal one must always be at hand, which may be slipped in should trouble arise; and the surgeon should never change a tube of any sort without having the dilator (Fig. 1) within reach. No kind of tracheotomy-tube can be worn for an indefinite period without risk of deterioration ; it should be examined from time to time. The soft tube is not trustworthy unless it is made on a foundation of canvas. Should part of a tube slip into the trachea, the case must be dealt with as directed in chap. xvii. Clearing the wound of mucus and blood may be effected with pieces of torn sponge. If the trachea itself be blocked, the mucus may be forced up to the surface-wound by sudden and firm compressions of the chest walls, and can be then caught and wiped away. Or a ruffled feather may be gently pushed into the trachea, and, being twisted round, may entangle and draw out tenacious mucus, or cause it to be ejected through the wound by coughing. Shreds or tubular .casts of false membrane may thus be fished up, and then caught at the wound by forceps. If the tube become choked, it must be taken out and a search made with forceps for a membranous cast of the trachea which, perchance, is blocking its orifice. Caution.—In standing over the child the surgeon runs great risk of infection by the breath of the patient, or by the out-rush of air through the wound. This risk is run in the course of duty, and is scarcely heeded. Nevertheless, the exposure should be as little as possible. But if, after the trachea is opened, the air do not pass freely, it is not the surgeon’s duty to put his lips to the wound and endeavour to suck the parts clear of obstruction. This proceeding is neither lawful nor expedient. Sucking can be of no practical advantage. It may cleanse the surface of the wound of blood and mucus, so that the bubbling noise is diminished; but this could be done as effectually by a piece