286 OCCLUSION OF MEATUS URINAR1US. If the tissues have become brawny and unyielding, from a long-continued paraphimosis, it may be necessary to pass a bistoury under the constriction, which is behind the cedema- tous mass, and to divide it freely, for the constriction band should not be allowed to free itself by ulceration. As soon after the reduction of a paraphimosis as the tissues have resumed their normal appearance, circumcision should be performed, or the trouble will certainly recur. Boys are apt to slip metal rings and similar objects over the penis, Avlien, the venous and lymphatic return being ob- structed, the organ becomes oedematous. A ring is best got off by winding a tape tightly and evenly around the penis and puncturing the skin Avith a needle to get rid of the oedema. Whenever a penis is greatly sAvollen, search should be made about its root for a constriction caused by fine AA'ire, elastic, string, or horse-hair. Other causes of oedema of the penis are albuminuria (as after scarlet fever), morbus cordis, and extra- vasation of urine (page 289). Occlusion of the meatus urinarius may exist either Avith or Avithout hypospadias. If a depression be found on the glans marking the site of the end of the urethra, a puncture should be made with a line bistoury, and the aperture dilated Avith a director. The orifice must be prevented from closing. A membranous septum farther along the urethra is of rare occurrence; it might be recognised and broken through by the introduction of the catheter for the relief of the distended bladder. But if the introduction of a catheter Avere found absolutely impracticable, suprapubic cystotomy Avould prob- ably be needful. Congenital narroAving of the meatus is apt to cause vesi- cal irritation and nocturnal incontinence of urine. It may be enlarged by an incision, and then kept dilated. Sometimes the narroAV meatus is completely hidden by a long and tight prepuce, and it is Avell to examine for it after a circumcision has been performed. If the meatus be small, the child strains to pass Avater, and in the expulsive effort a hernia may be started or augmented. Frequently, a congenital hernia ceases to descend after the dilatation of a small preputial or urethral outlet has been performed. Hermaphroditism.—In the beginning of the third month