SYMPTOMS. 91 membrane is thus fissured. Small ulcers and condylomata may be found at the anus, and condylomata may appear about the scrotum and thighs; occasionally they are to be seen on the transverse dimples of the neck, thigh, or arm. Wherever condylomata appear, there also may be found raised “ mucous patches ”; their surface is moist, pearly-grey, slate-coloured, or dusk. They consist of clusters of small condylomata (Plate III. Fig. 1). Papules and patches may be found on the pharynx; and when ulceration has been followed by cica- trisation adhesions may be detected between the soft palate and neighbouring mucous surfaces. The history and the appearance of the child suffice to distinguish these adhesions from those of tuberculous disease. Epiphysitis and periostitis about the articular ends of the long bones may in some few cases afford the only evidence of hereditary disease. In cases of suspected syphilis, each epiphyseal region should be gently squeezed between the finger and thumb. On account of the peri- ostitis near the epiphyses, the child keeps the limb almost or entirely motionless, and any attempt made fully to flex or extend the joint causes distress, as does also pressure over the slightly thickened area. Synovitis and inflammatory effusion occur in the neighbouring joint. The limb soon begins to waste, and the infant scarcely ever moves it. In one case the infant had a wide annular thickening around the upper, grow- ing end of the humeral diaphysis (there being no other trace of disease), and the arm appeared paralysed. In another, the ends of all the diaphyses were enlarged, and, as distinguishing the condition from rickets, the swellings were extremely pain- ful. There was no beading of the ribs or other sign of rickets; and the child’s aspect denoted syphilis, not rickets. When only one epiphyseal region is affected, the diagnosis is simpler, as rachitic enlargements are symmetrical. The exact nature of the case is apt to escape recognition, the disease being mis- taken, perhaps, for simple synovitis or periostitis, or infantile paralysis. Free movement, however, quickly returns under the influence of mercury. The affection is well named pseudo- paralysis. The limb should be secured by a well-padded splint. Cases.—An infant was lately brought on account of some obscure trouble of the shoulder ; she was restless, and seemed