439 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. iodine may be painted on the skin. In due course the tumour may subside, but if it persist, and interference be deemed necessary, it may be dissected out, a fine ligature being placed around its neck. Tuberculous bursitis.—As a primary affection, or as an extension from a neighbouring joint, tuberculous inflamma- tion sometimes attacks a bursa or synovial sheath. It is a quiet, chronic, and often an intractable disease. If rest do not secure its subsidence, the capsule had better be laid open and the granulation-tissue, the melon-seed bodies, or the flaky, puriform material scraped entirely away. It is a serious matter, and if left to run its own course, may wreck the joint. The trochanteric and pre-patellar bursse are those most frequently affected. I have known pre-patellar bursitis invade the knee joint. Syphilitic synovitis attacks the knee more often than any other joint. It comes on somewhat mysterious^, and is, as a rule, symmetrical and painless. The physiognomy and the teeth are likely to give evidence of syphilis, as does also the clinical history. Under the combined influence of warmth, rest, and mercurial inunction, together with compression of the joints in gypsum splints, the trouble disappears—at any rate for a time (page 97.) Syphilis may attack bursae and syno- vial sheaths in the same way that it may the lining of a joint. In tuberculous disease of the knee joint (ivhite swelling) the synovial membrane is gradually converted into a thick, pulpy mass. The disease may begin as a primary synovitis, or as a tuberculous epiphysitis, or ostitis; the membrane becomes cedematous and soft, and eventually is converted into granu- lation-tissue. It bulges evenly, and forms a padding by the side of the patella and its ligament, and under the lower part of the quadriceps extensor. Sometimes it gives the sensation of fluid in the joint, but fluctuation can rarely be transmitted from side to side beneath the patella. The ligaments give way, the articular cartilage softens and disappears, and the bone becomes carious. Abscess may form in the joint, but the contents are not actually purulent. The condition is rather one of fluid tuberculous granuloma (page 60). Destructive changes may extend to the skin, which be- comes red and tender, ulceration permits the escape of the