STONE IN THE BLADDER. 298 mucous membrane and set up .cystitis, when the phosphates were at once thrown down. Indeed, the rugous condition of the lining itselt may have been the result of a quiet, antece- dent cystitis. No wonder if such a bladder become irritable and suggest the presence of stone. When a boy is the subject of this peculiar condition of bladder, he should be put to bed and carefully watched, the bowels being kept relaxed. Cod-liver oil and iron may be prescribed, and a light diet, containing plenty of milk, should be ordered. Oranges and other fruit may be useful, and if the urine still be found over-acid, small doses of citrate of potash may be given. When the child is allowed to get up, he should be very Avarmly dressed, and should be kept out of the reach ot cold winds and Avet Aveather. Stone in the bladder of a child is more likely to exist in the male than in the female, as in the latter it is likely to escape through the short and dilatable urethra. It may give rise to chronic priapism, and to urgent demands for micturi- tion, so that the poor boy Avets his trousers by day and his bed by night; for Avhich uncontrollable acts he is often severely punished. So great may be the straining that, Avith the expulsive effort, the lower bowel is involuntarily emptied. From fear of soiling his trousers he runs to the closet when the urging comes on, and, sitting there and straining, prolapse of the rectum takes place. From a bruising of the congested lining of the bladder by the stone, blood may be mixed with the urine, so that it is red or coffee-coloured. If the urine be allowed to stand, it may give a plentiful deposit of mucus or pus; and eA'en Avhen freshly passed, it may be ammoniacal and offensive. As the bladder is emptied, the stone is forced against the tender trigone, so that the child screams again, and if the stone be driven against the urethral opening the stream is suddenly and painfully stopped. In these circum- stances the boy discovers that he can best relieve himself by lying upon his side, or by getting on to his hands and knees ; in the latter position the stone falls from the trigone towards the summit of the bladder. But Avhatever the position assumed, the boy is apt to feel pain during micturi- tion. There is much pain at the end of the penis; to allay this he pulls at the prepuce, Avhich, from constant manipula-