HALLUX RIGIDUS. 482 adult by Ogston, of pegging together the freshened surface of the astragalus and scaphoid bone. If, however, the de- formity be so severe and intractable as to demand heroic measures, the wrenching and inversion of the foot (under chloroform), the thrusting up of the astragalus, and the subsequent enclosure of the foot in the over-corrected and adducted position in plaster of Paris is the preferable opera- tion. This energetic treatment causes very slight discomfort, and often gives excellent results. On leaving off the gypsum, the special boot, as designed above, must be worn, raising the inner border of the foot. Flat feet and weak ankles are often associated in feeble children, but sometimes they occur in children who are in every other way strong and flourishing. Most infants have the Aveakness in some degree, but it is only Avhen they begin to “find their feet” that the defect attracts attention. The “ankle” gives way upon the inner side, much as it does in an awkward boy who is making his first attempt at skating. The Aveakness is, for the most part, at the astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid joints; it is a popular error to locate the deformity in the tibio-tarsal joint. The condition is not serious, but if the surgeon make too light of it the mother Avill be apt to go elseAvhere for assistance, perhaps to a “ bone- setter.” Treatment.—The child must be taken off his feet. Per- haps it is a first-born, and the mother is too anxious about his physical development, and is unconsciously overtaxing the strength of the tarsal arches and ankle joint. All this should be stopped, and the feet must have a complete rest; also proper diet and tonics must be prescribed. The ill- nourished and rickety child, too, Avith a heavy trunk, flabby limbs, a large head, and Aveak bones and ligaments, is very apt to “ tread over.” To the foot and ankle strength may be directly imparted by shampooing. Sea salt may be dissolved in the bath Avater. This Avater may be used warm at night, and cold or tepid in the morning. The parts should be Avell dried and rubbed in the direction of the return circulation, and warmly covered in worsted socks. The feet and legs should never be allowed to get cold. If they become so during the night, the child