279 HYPOSPADIAS. Epispadias is associated with hiatus of the bladder, when, the pubes being absent, the urethra is represented merely by a groove along the dorsum of the penis. It may exist with- out malformation of the bladder. The condition may some- times be improved by bringing the penis through the scrotum. In hypospadias the urethra is open along the under aspect of the penis. It is due to arrest of development in the process by which the margins of the urethral groove, which begin at the uro-genital sinus, join in the middle line. As the fusion of these lips takes place from scrotum to glans, it is the anterior part of the floor of the urethra that is most often deficient. When the floor of the urethra is deficient in the glandular part of the penis, the defect is generally associated with a redundant, hooded prepuce upon the dorsal aspect. The parts are improved by the removal of most of this hood. Sometimes the urethra opens just in front of the scrotum, or behind the glans; in these cases the aperture may require dilatation, but a jilastic operation, Avith the vieAv of carrying on the urethra to the end of the glans, is likely to fail. The plan of boring the glans Avith a red-hot Avire, to establish a conduit in the proper position, has probably failed as often as it has been tried. Sometimes the meatus urinarius is closed at birth by a membrane Avhich requires perforation. If, Avith an orifice in front of or behind the scrotum, the urethra be found to extend to the meatus, and to be blocked there by membrane (atresia urethrae), the normal meatus may be opened up, and, if necessary, the abnormal aperture closed by a plastic operation. As G. A. Wright points out, if a probe is passed along the urethra, it is at once seen how thin the floor is. This is the result of the imperfect development of the corpus spongiosum, Avhich is sometimes represented merely by a slender fibrous band. If the under surface of the penis be adherent to the front of the scrotum (as often happens in the case of hooded prepuce, for instance), the connecting integument and fibrous tissue may be removed by lateral incisions, and the edges of the scrotal Avound brought together by fine sutures. It is much better that all needful or expedient operations upon the penis or scrotum be done before school-life is begun. To advise that an operation be “ put off until he is older ”