210 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSTRIL. and thumb. Long-continued pressure in this way may have an excellent effect, especially when, as is apt to be the case, the bleeding is from an ulcerated spot upon the septum. The vaso-motor nerves may be stimulated by holding a cold stone, or large door-key, or a piece of ice, to the nape of the neck, and cold water may be applied to the forehead and nose. The nostril may be irrigated with water as hot as can be borne, and after this, ice-cold water may be used. If the haemorrhage be continuous and alarming, the pos- terior and anterior nares must be plugged with a piece of sponge which has been dipped in tincture of iron, and squeezed dry, or, better still, by strips of amadou. The plugging may be effected by the aid of a piece of bent wire. As a matter of fact, however, I have never met with a case requiring this operation. Foreign bodies in the nostril. — Children are apt to push a button, bean, fruit-stone, or similar object, into the anterior nares. Subsequently, in an attempt to extract it, it may be thrust far up. If it. cannot be seen, the boy’s statement of his exploit is apt to be disregarded; but if a nostril have become suddenly blocked, there would be evidence of the statement being correct. After a time the nose becomes tender, the nostril swells, and a muco-purulent discharge appears; unilateral oziena is unlikely to be of constitutional origin. Possibly a thorough inspection of the nostril can be obtained only on the administration of chloroform, and after preliminary syringing. On the introduction of a speculum, the object may be seen and extracted. If the mucous mem- brane be much swollen, or the object cannot be seen, its presence may be determined by the use of the probe. Re- moval may be effected by a pair of slender-bladed forceps, or by a curette extemporised out of a hair-pin slightly bent at its closed end. Its continued presence would give rise to ulceration, and perhaps to necrosis. But if it were wedged high in the nostril and resisted every attempt at extraction, it might be advisable to push it backwards into the pharynx. If, after this interference, the child can blow down that nostril, the obstruction has evidently been dis- placed. Dr. Slaton’s simple method of dislodging the bod}''