351 RADICAL TREATMENT. The child being in a state of perfect health, and duly- prepared for operation, an incision is made over the inguinal canal—as high above the scrotum as possible—until the funicular process is reached. The coverings are disturbed as little as possible during the dissection. The serous process is freed, the vas deferens and the spermatic vessels being jealously protected from injury. The process is securely tied by a sterilised silk ligature, close to the internal abdominal ring, so that no depression may remain upon the abdominal aspect likely to encourage subsequent emigration of bowel; to effect this it may be necessary to lay open the inguinal canal. Half an inch below the ligature the funicular part of the sac is severed, its stump being turned up and stitched to the abdominal wall. Some surgeons affirm that so long as the funicular process is obliterated high up, the inguinal canal needs no suturing. Certainly the effectual ligation of the process is the more important part of the operation, but I prefer to adopt the additional precaution of lacing up the inguinal canal by silk sutures cut short, leaving only sufficient room for the transit of the spermatic cord. So that they may have a firm hold upon the aponeurosis of the external oblique, they should be inserted at some distance from the margin of the ring. The skin-wound is sutured, and the part is covered with a firm pad of sterilised gauze. No drainage-tube is needed. By the last turns of the bandage a piece of waterproof jaconet is adjusted over the region, a hole being cut in it for the penis. I am opposed to the plan of twisting the sac to cause its obliteration, as a piece of omentum or bowel, or some elements of the cord may easily be snared thereby. In the after-treatment no truss need be applied. If the operation has been efficiently performed it is not wanted, whilst its pressure is actually harmful by promoting absorption of the plastic deposit needed for blocking the canal. Within four or five weeks of the operation I have the child up and about, keeping him under supervision for a few weeks more. If the testicle and bowel be adherent in a reducible inguinal hernia, the case is highly suitable for radical treat- ment. Assiduous endeavour should first bo made to coax