465 S YME’S AMP UTA TION. day following the operation the child may be found amusing himself with toys or pictures. The limb having been raised, to empty it of blood, and the circulation being controlled, the tip of the external malleolus is noted, and a spot upon the inner side of the ankle, which exactly corresponds with it. These two points mark the extremities of an incision Avhich is made by a scalpel around the plantar aspect of the heel, dividing all the structures down to the bone. The incision should slope backwards, or else, when the os calcis has been enucleated, the cup-shaped flap will be found unnecessarily large. A second incision straight across the front of the ankle connects these same points. Then the foot is firmly depressed, and the knife made to traverse the ankle joint. Carefully the knife is to clear the loose tissue from along the upper aspect of the os calcis behind the astragalus, then round the posterior part of the os calcis, through the insertion of the tendon of Achilles, and around the bone within the limits of the incision. Whilst enucleating the os calcis, the skin may be wounded unless the point of the knife be kept close against the bone. The articular surface of the tibia is scraped, and the malleoli are removed with a strong scalpel or with a fine saw. The ends of the tibial arteries (or the two plantars) are secured, and any long-cut tendons pulled down and shortened with the scissors. The fallacies in the operation are in not making the inner end of the incision on the exact level with a spot immediately below the tip of the external malleolus ; in attempting to shape a dorsal flap, and so getting the second incision in advance of the tibio-tarsal joint, and thus opening the astra- galo-scaphoid joint (by forcibly depressing the foot, and feeling the flexure of the ankle joint, this error is not likely to be committed); in bringing the first incision so far forward in the sole, that the cup of the heel-flap is awkwardly large; in scoring the flap when enucleating the os calcis: this acci- dent is less likely to happen if the flap be dissected from above instead of from below, as Syme did it, and if the blade be short and kept well in view. The left index finger applied to the skin behind will give information of the thickness of the integuments between it and the knife. Sloughing is extremely E E