DISEASE OF THE KNEE JOINT. 448 also with the upper epiphysis of the tibia. The epiphysis which is last to join is that most concerned in the lengthen- ing of a bone, and the knee-epiphyses of both these bones are late in joining. The surgeon then looks if he have two evenly cut and healthy surfaces which come flat together without much strain on the tissues behind the knee. If the strain prove excessive, the ham-string tendons must be freely divided, but bone must not be sacrificed. If after the section the condition of the bone appear untrustworthy, the gouge may be used with advantage; but broad and healthy surfaces of the bones must be left in apposition, or a good result will not be obtained. Osteal ulcers or abscesses met Avith in the course of the excision must be scraped, and all granulation-tissue and degenerate synovial membrane re- moved by using Volkmann’s spoons. Thus, excision as performed to-day means an economical removal of diseased bone, supplemented by a thorough arthrectomy; the classical excision of former days is rarely performed. If oozing of blood be troublesome and delay the final steps of the procedure, the cut surfaces may be sAvabbed again Avith a solution of chloride of zinc (grs. 10 to ^i). When all bleeding has ceased, the saAvn surfaces are adjusted, and the limb steadily held Avhilst ample dressings of sterilised gauze are applied and lateral splints of house- flannel, soaked in creamy plaster of Paris, are evenly adjusted. These splints, Avhich, in my opinion, are better suited for children than any other apparatus, should be long enough to reach from the top of the thigh to just above the ankle. So as to keep the child flat and straight, a long Avooden splint should be secured from the axilla to the ankle along the opposite side. As a rule, the dressings do not need removal for tAvo or three Aveeks; but if it happens that blood or serum soaks through, the limb may have to be put up afresh next day. Anri, if expedient, this may be done under chloroform. No provision is made for drainage. When the wound has become sound and solid after ex- cision, the child should be fitted Avith a Thomas’s knee-splint, patten, and crutches. If, though the case do fairly Avell after operation, a chronic discharge continue from a sinus Avhich is evidently leading doAvn to ulcerated bone, the wound may