285 PARAPHIMOSIS. is needed. If the skin be drawn forwards too freely before its removal, an unnecessarily wide zone of penis will bo flayed; and though this will be covered again when the mucous membrane is turned back and sutured, there will in after-life be no trace of a prepuce. The plan of passing a director beneath the dorsal part of the foreskin, and then slitting it up with a bistoury, is inadvis- able. Though the operation is quick and simple, the result is highly unsatisfactory; the large lateral flaps hang down and, infiltrated with serum, form an unsightly mass. The condition would no doubt gradually improve, but, because of it, boys have sometimes had to be kept back from school for a Avhile. To show that this style of operating is also dangerous, I will quote an instance in which a surgeon had the misfortune to introduce one blade of the scissors into the urethra, and so divided the dorsal part of the glans as well as the foreskin. Howse has pointed out that hardness occurring in the cicatricial wound suggests an inherited sypohilitic taint; so that if there be any suspicion on that score, it would be well to put the child on a mild course of mercury (page 100). As the presence of a long prepuce may mask as well as give rise to symptoms of vesical calculus, it is well to make it a. custom to sound the patient, when under the influence of the anaesthetic, if the circumcision is being done in a case of vesical irritation. Paraphimosis occurs Avhen a tight preputial orifice is draAvn behind the corona and there obstinately remains. It is particularly apt to occur Avhen the subject of a phimosis has drawn back the foreskin—perhaps on account of an irritation beneath it. As an attempt to draAV the prepuce fonvards is sometimes very painful, an anaesthetic should be administered, so that the surgeon can act more deliberately. The penis should be compressed by the thumb and index finger of the left hand, Avliilst the strangled and oedematous glans is squeezed erupt}- of its blood and serum by the con- tinuous compression of the fingers and thumb of the other hand. The corona may be lubricated Avith vaseline, and in a little Avhile it Avill slip back through the SAvollen preputial covering. Another Avay of reducing the size of the glans is by tightly binding it Avith a piece of tape.