TUMOURS. 130 taken away, it should be thoroughly done by scalpel and forceps; not a particle should be left behind. In these days of aseptic surgery it will not greatly matter if, in drawing out the deepest part of the tumour, an attachment with even the dura mater have to be severed. When about to attack a dermoid cyst in the median line of the head—where it is especially likely to be found—it must be remembered that the bones are thin and that the venous sinus is not far off. Tissue hypertrophy.—Congenital tumours of this nature may be fibrous, cystic, or fatty, or any combination of these varieties; they may be pendulous or sessile. The most important of them are next described. Cystic lymphangioma, hygroma, is composed of a series of cysts which are closely or irregularly spread through fibrous tissue. The cysts are dilated lymph spaces; they vary in size, and when distended they are spheroid. Some of them may be as large as an orange, or even larger, Avhilst others in the same growth may be the size of a marble or pea, or just visible to the naked eye. The cysts may be in communication with each other; they are sometimes sur- rounded with semi-fluid Whartonian jelly. The periphery of the growth fades away into normal connective tissue. In removal by dissection, the cysts collapse ; and, when separated, the growth is something like a piece of torn sponge, but with vacuolations less definite. The larger and more solitary growths, when in the neck, may be described as “ hydrocele.” Some of them are of enormous size, and on their contents being drawn off, the cyst-wall and the integument shrivel up. When large and pendulous, the cysts may appear bluish through the thin and translucent integument. Occasionally they form diffuse tumours upon the trunk. Cystic lymphangioma sometimes grows with alarming rapidity. In one child, a lymphangioma at the root of the neck pushed aside all the movable structures; deglutition and respiration were thus impeded, and so great was the compression upon the large veins that the eye-lids, hands, and arms, became oedematous. Death was caused by obstruction of the trachea. (See also page 179.) Lymphangioma of the neck may extend around the carotid sheath, and even reach into the mouth and implicate the tonsil. Though cystic lymphangiomata