444 DISEASE OF THE KNEE JOINT. disease is at an end. But if the surgeon be not satisfied on this head, he should, notwithstanding the disappointment which his edict may involve, insist on a return to perfect and uninterrupted rest. No “passive movements” should be tried, but skilful and judicious massage will be of assistance, and from time to time the ankle must be moved. If the limb is long fixed at rest care must be taken that the foot is not allowed constantly to remain in the extended position. It is a good sign when, notwithstanding the wasting of the limb, the enlarged joint begins to resume its proper shape. This means not only that the fluid is being absorbed, but also that the thickening of the synovial membrane is diminishing. Operative measures.—The surgeon should be guarded in expressing his opinion, however strongly he may hold it, that unless he obtains the consent Avhich he asks for the per- formance of arthrectomy, excision, or amputation in the treatment of a case of advanced knee-disease, the child will sink. It has happened to me, as, doubtless, to other surgeons, that in thus definitely demanding the sacrifice of the joint or the limb, the parents have removed the child from hospital, and have eventually watched his happy convalescence at home or elsewhere ! Possibly the case was just about to mend at the time of its being taken from hospital. Or it may be that the change of air should have the credit of the improve- ment ; but the awkward fact has remained, that after the treatment urged by the surgeon in measured words had been declined, the joint began to mend. The course for the sur- geon to adopt is to lay the facts clearly before the parents, explaining the risks and the alternatives, advising from opinions founded on broad principles, urging operation, but never commanding it; our art cannot yet claim infallibility. A great deal may be done by ensuring a free escape for discharge. If this source of irritation be removed, and the parts kept at rest, what is there to hinder the supervention of ankylosis ? Much of the value of exploration, of the so- called “ partial operation,” and of the sulphuric-acid treatment depends upon the ensurance of free escape for discharge. In suppurative cases, much general constitutional disturbance is caused by the constant absorption of small doses of the