94 SYPHILIS. ] of blood in diffuse ostitis causes general hypertrophy of the bone. The medullary canal is effaced, and the loose cancel- lated tissue is replaced by dense material—in other words, diffuse osteosclerosis is produced. The inflamed diaphysis is often bent; this is probably due to the fact that it is softened for a while by the chronic inflammation, and yields to the superimposed weight. It sometimes happens when only one bone, in the forearm or leg, is affected, that it bends around the bone which is not lengthened; in most cases the only bending is antero-posterior. Rickets does not thicken a bowed diaphysis, but hereditary syphilis does. And when the thickened bone receives an injury, an excess of inflammation is set up in a limited area, and, thrombosis readily occurring, a central necrosis takes place ; the sequestrum adds to the disturbance, and thickening occurs at that part. It needs but a slight injury to cause necrosis in a bone when its vitality has been impaired by sclerosis. Though, as a rule, chronic hypernutrition causes length- ening of the syphilitic bone, when it happens to be as- sociated with a growth of granulation-tissue through the end of the diaphysis, it may actually destroy the junc- tion-cartilage and determine an early fusion of shaft and epiphysis. So that, when we are examining a child for supplemental signs of hereditary syphilis, we may find some bones longer than they should be and some shorter, giving in either case unmistakable evidence of the disease. When, as often happens, the fibula does not increase in length commensurately with the tibia, the foot becomes everted and a spurious talipes valgus is produced. On the other hand, if, as a result of syphilitic or tuberculous disease, the growth of the tibia is arrested, whilst that of the fibula is uninterfered with, the foot becomes inverted, a spurious talipes varus being produced. Syphilitic inflammation at the extremity of the diaphysis is often associated with a quiet periostitis at the epiphysis, and if this occurs at the adjacent ends of the humerus and ulna, or of the femur and tibia, the elbow and knee assume an ovoid shape, which is apt to be mistaken for tuberculous disease. But the co-existence of other signs of syphilis, and