CENTRAL NECROSIS OF THE OS CALCIS. 485 joint to joint and bone to bone, to involve tlio whole foot. (See also page 461.) The treatment should be prompt and thorough. The foot, ankle, and lower half of the leg should be enclosed in lateral leather splints or gypsum; and for a short time, if only to impress the child with the need for care, he should be kept in bed, with the foot raised on a pillow. No counter- irritation or local application of any kind, beyond the dry compression just described, is required. If the child can be trusted, he may be allowed to go about in a Thomas’s knee- splint, with a high boot or patten on the sound foot, as shown in Fig 114. The general treatment will be upon the lines laid down on page 462, whilst “ masterly inactivity ” generally may characterise the successful treatment of the diseased tissues. It is surprising how much may be gained by complete rest in these cases, even if sinuses have already formed. Contem- porary surgery has grown impatient. I feel sure that in the case of chronic disease of carpus and tarsus the desire to “ do somethingis often a mistake. Still, when prolonged and patniet treatment has proved inefficient, free scraping, or partial excision. of the tarsus may be resorted to. If this also fail, the sooner Syme’s amputation is resorted to the better. Central necrosis of the os calcis is a somewhat common disease. The acute ostitis, which determines the limited necrosis is often the sequel of one of the fevers or of injury, being, thus, the result 'of septic or tuberculous invasion (see page 364.) At first the redness and swelling are confined chiefly to the back of the foot, but in due course the neigh- bourhood of the ankle becomes swollen. If there be doubt as to the exact seat of the disease, an exploratory incision should unhesitatingly be made into the os calcis, when, a sequestrum having been extracted, the disease may clear away and the foot may be saved. The sequestrum is likely to be found loose in a bed of granulation-tissue. It is best reached from the outer side (Fig. 119). Here is a typical report of septic necrosis of the os calcis:—A boy, years of age, was admitted to the Chil- drens Hospital, November, 1896. His mother said that lie