350 RED TJCIB LE IIERNIA. Caecal hernia occurs in the right inguinal region, and usually has, though not always, a complete sac. The tumour is large, and reduced with difficulty; yet it rarely becomes strangulated, perhaps on account of the large size of the abdominal aperture. 'Sometimes the vermiform process can be felt through the scrotal covering; but the exact nature of the protrusion may be detected only on operating. The caical hernia is peculiarly unmanageable by truss, and is very apt to call for radical treatment. The cfecal hernia may have but a partial sac of peritoneum. Sometimes the vermiform process alone forms the hernial protrusion. Radical treatment of reducible hernia is a preferable term to “ radical cure.” It is by no means always a cure, and so to speak of the operation is to surround it with a specious attractiveness. There are some hernias with which it is beyond the power of the parents and of the surgeon successfully to deal by trusses ; the protrusion may keep up for a short while, but as soon as the child begins to get about it slips down again, and lies compressed beneath the pad. If a truss Avith a stronger spring be employed, the pressure becomes intoler- able ; so the child is allowed to go about Avith boAvel in the scrotum, which generally becomes an increasing quantity. To offer an equally unsatisfactory state of affairs, though the hernia of another child is not large, nor particularly un- manageable, his parents are too poor to supply him Avith the necessary apparatus, or too ignorant or careless to give the needful help in making it available. Such cases are proper for the radical operation; but I would strongly insist that if a hernia can be kept up by a truss, operation should not be urged. The treatment by subcutaneous injection of a solution of oak-bark or of alcohol has been tried and found wanting; it is not only unsatisfactory, it is unsafe. There is certainly no age-limit as regards resorting to the radical treatment. Indeed, the younger the child the more difficult it may be to keep up the hernia, and, so far as my experience goes,’ the more satisfactory is the result of opera- tion. The question of operating must be decided by the unmanageableness of the hernia rather than by the age of the child.