403 OF T11F FEMUR. socket, by flexing, abducting, and vigorously manipulating the limb. After this, improvement may be obvious; and though in some cases the femur may retain its improved position, in others it may be necessary to secure the gain by fixing the limb in the abducted position, with the knee bent, until the pressure of the head of the femur has caused the permanent establishment of a natural aird practicable socket. But even at the best, the case will require careful and pro- longed supervision ere the limb will be sound and trustworthy. The inconvenience of the deformity is not sufficient to warrant the resort to any speculative operation with the view of im- proving the position of the undeveloped femoral head. I have under supervision a lady with congenital luxation of one femur, and by keeping the boot raised in proportion with her growth, the ill-effects of the deformity have been rendered little noticeable. No doubt her condition is now as satis- factory as it would have been had the limb in early childhood been subjected to months or years of continuous and vexatious extension. By careful drilling much of the effect of the displacement has been overcoine; indeed, she how shows but slight lameness, though her limb is very short. In comparison with that of the hip joint, no other congen- ital displacement is possessed of much practical importance. Rarely the tibia is found partially displaced forwards upon the femoral condyles at birth, the toes pointing towards the infant’s face—genu recurvation. Slight difficulty is usually found in bringing the leg down straight, and, this being done, the knee is kept extended on a well-padded splint. Subse- quently, rubbings and shampooings render the joint sound and trustworthy. The defect is probably the result of malposition in utero. In a case lately under treatment in the Children’s Hospital, the deformity could not be remedied by anything short of free division of the quadriceps. This was effected by an open wound above the patella. (See Trans. Med. Soc., 1891.) I have seen several instances of congenital dislocation of the radius backwards. The head of the bone lay quite behind the lower end of the humerus; the lesion but little affected the strength of the joint. No cutting operation need be