NJE VI: THE A TMENT. 133 and of approaching subsidence. (For the diagnosis from meningocele see page 128.) Capillary nsevi may be flat or raised, or heaped up into a bright mass like a currant or strawberry. Sometimes the mother sees in them a close resemblance to a mouse or a lobster, and straightway endeavours to harmonise their causa- tion with some fright or longing which impressed her during pregnane}''. An inoffensive nsevus which is out of sight may be left without treatment; if it do not fade away, at any rate it will probably cease to grow. I have seen a large, diffuse capil- lary nsevus which was conspicuous upon the forehead of an infant grow fainter and smaller week by week, till ultimately it passed completely away. Superficial nsevi not infrequently sub- side after spontaneous and quiet ulceration. Being composed of unstable elements, they are very apt to undergo degeneration, and especially atrophy or ulceration. Spontaneous sloughing rarely occurs. Though we should not make a needless fuss about a nsevus, Ave should regard it with suspicion, and deal Avith it promptly and effectually. It is too much the custom to alloAv a nsevus to guide the surgeon. Far better Avould it be, in the general run of cases, if the surgeon governed the nsevus. Sometimes a nsevus which has been inconspicuous in early childhood suddenly and rapidly takes on groAvth. Treatment.—An unsightly nsevus, or one Avhich has begun to groAv rapidly, evidently demands treatment. Dr. Laurent, of Brussels, urges that a nsevus should be attacked as soon as it is recognised, irrespective of the age of the child. Though there are exceptions to this rule, it Avould be for the good of patients, parents, and practitioners if the soundness of the principle Avere generally admitted. Pressure is a method of treatment occasionally employed Avith success, especially when the growth is situated OArer a surface against Avhich compression may be kept up, as over a cranial bone. It may be exerted by means of a coin Avrapped in a fold of lint, and secured by strapping, or by an elastic band Avhich encircles the head, or takes its bearings from a closely fitting skull-cap. If the nsevus be large, or if pulsat- ing vessels be entering it, the treatment by pressure is almost certain to disappoint. Stellate and small nsevi may shrivel up by the single