331) INFLAMMATION OF THE AFP END IK adhesions may shut in a localised abscess. If hardness give way to doughiness, or even to obscure fluctuation, acute abscess must bo suspected. Rectal examination may show a tender fulness in the iliac region. Vomiting nearly always occurs, but it is rarely stercoraceous, and is not very trouble- some. There may be also shiverings, or even convulsions, and in due course the child becomes pale and exhausted, and is covered with profuse perspiration. If perforation occur before inflammation has set up firm adhesions, fatal peritonitis is likely to result; but if, as usually happens, advancing inflammation has glued the bowel to the surrounding tissues, abscess may form in the iliac fossa, or become discharged through the groin or the bowel without implicating the peritoneal cavity. If general suppurative peritonitis occur, it is absolutely necessary to give the child the benefit of abdominal section, irrigation, and drainage; no case, however hopeless it may appear, must be refused the benefit of operation. When suspecting that the septic inflammation has spread to the peritoneum, it must be remembered that the presence of certain toxins in pus may prevent the temperature greatly rising ; and such products are especially apt to be met with in connection with appendicular suppuration. As Le Dentu says, one cannot shout it out too loud that there is nothing so deceptive as septic peritonitis ; that nearly all the signs of a general peritonitis—temperature amongst them—may be absent. The prognosis in perityphlitis is by no means desperate. If the abscess approach the skin over the iliac fossa, the chance of recovery is favourable; but in many cases the dis- ease ends in resolution without abscess having been formed, and a certain proportion of cases are complicated with rare or frequent relapse. Increasing fulness and tenderness suggest suppuration ; if softness occur in the middle of the brawny mass, and obscure fluctuation be detected, the evidence of abscess is sufficient. Treatment.—From the first moment of the attack the child should be kept absolutely at rest in bed, so as to dimin- ish to the utmost the risk of the occurrence of suppuration. A couple of leeches may be applied over the iliac fossa, and