49 RECOVERIES. oft' the movable trachea, or to go through both its walls, and into the oesophagus or vertebral column. Tracheotomes are very dangerous instruments; there is no royal road to tracheotomy. The prognosis, when the operation is performed for laryn- geal diphtheria, is highly unfavourable, the cause of death being exhaustion, the extension of the inflammatory process, broncho-pneumonia, or blood-poisoning. Or death may be due to paralysis of muscles of respiration, or of the heart. The operation itself does not kill the patient, or even shorten his life. Let that be clearly understood. The child dies in spite of the operation, not because of its performance. It usually happens that the child rallies after the operation, at any rate for a time, though, on the other hand, he may die before the surgeon has had time to finish it. In my experience, children with laryngeal diphtheria in private practice do not show nearly so good a percentage of recoveries after tracheotomy as do those who, being at once taken to a hospital, are operated on at the first indications. In the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, there were, in a little less than five years, 66 cases of tracheotomy for laryngeal diphtheria, out of which number there occurred 25 recoveries — a percentage of about 38. And at St. Mary’s Hospital during four years there were also 66 cases (almost entirely amongst children); of these, 20 recovered, or about 30 per cent. In the total of 132 cases there were 45 successful results, or a percentage of 34. I feel sure that if the results of an equal number of tra- cheotomies in children with laryngeal diphtheria in private practice could be collected (not selected, as statistics too often are), the percentage of recoveries would not show nearly so favourably, the explanation being that the surgeon is not so free to resort to operation in private as in hospital work. (These figures were taken just before the adoption of the antitoxin treatment.) It is a bad sign when the introduction of the tube does hot completely relieve the breathing, as, in that case, the false membrane has already reached the trachea or even the bronchi. It is a bad sign when the child is apathetic ; when the tube remains dry, or is merely caked with gluey mucus ; when