440 DISEASE OF THE KNEE JOINT. unhealthy pus, and also of an extension upwards of the fungating mass of granulation-tissue, which is now the sole representative of the softer elements of the joint. One tissue of the joint is so quickly implicated after another that clin- ically it is inexpedient to try to draw a distinction between synovitis and arthritis. The cause of the disease is likely to he wet, cold, or injury which has rendered the tissue incapable of resisting the bacillary invasion. Scarlet fever or measles often precedes the attack. The more unhealthy the child the greater the probability of histological destruction, whilst the joint of the ill-nourished subject is, of course, most speedily disorganised. Members of the family of the child with chronic joint-disease very often have a history of phthisis, or of some other form of tuberculous disease. Chronic joint-disease in childhood is almost invariably tuberculous. Symptoms.—Attention may first be called to the joint by the child limping, and though he may have complained of nothing more than an occasional aching after exercise, or of the knee feeling “ hot ” at night, a careful examination may show the part swollen and the muscles already Avasted. Some- times, however, there is almost complete absence of pain from beginning to end of the disease, and thus the case is over- looked and treatment neglected. The knee becomes stiff, and if the child continue to limp about, the joint becomes more swollen and flexed. The globular or ovoid mass looks still larger on account of the muscular Avasting. The osseous tissue is not enlarged unless, indeed, the trouble began as an epiphy- sitis. There is rarely fluctuation in the joint, the SAvelling being due to oedema of the synovial membrane, or to an intra- articular groAVth of granulation-tissue. Sometimes, lioAvever, there is a good deal of sero-synovial fluid to be made out in a tuberculous joint. The skin is thin, pale, and shining, and marbled Avith turgid veins, the general appearance justifying the epithet of “Avliite swelling.” (For “Syphilitic disease of knee,” see page 98.) As the disease advances, the pain becomes increased, and the least movement or shake causes intense suffering. The child is awoke from sleep by sudden and painful startings. These startings suggest ulceration of the cartilage, but they