413 MUSCULAR ATROPHY. anterior cornu of the grey crescent of the cord, and when the joint is in trouble Nature inhibits the free supply of nutritive fluid to the bones and muscles, so as to secure rest for the articulation. Thus it is that the muscles so quickly begin to waste. It is often suggested that the wasting of the limb in joint disease is merely the result of want of use. But that is not the correct explanation of the phenomenon; for if a child has hip-joint disease, say on the left side, and he is fixed in a double Thomas’s splint, or some other apparatus which pre- vents his using either limb, the sound limb Avastes but very little—at any rate, not nearly to such an extent as does the limb of the affected side. In a similar manner, the smallness of the femur in these cases is explained, and the smallness of the main vessels Avhen amputation has to be resorted to. (See also article by Miller, Eclin. Med. Journ., 1896.) Treatment.—With the earliest symptoms of disease, the surgeon must adopt vigorous measures; he must begin energetic treatment. Even if he think the boy has but “ sprained ” the joint, he should put him to bed and apply the stirrup and Aveight; only having done this should he assume the expectant attitude. When the symptoms are not suf- ficiently clear for absolute diagnosis, the child should be kept in bed till every suspicious feature has passed off; he must not be alloAA'ed to run about until the nature of the disease has become evident even to the unskilled. Nor should the treatment at any period become half-hearted. Disappoint- ment Avill follow the promise that the child Avill “ groAv out of” his obscure trouble. Treatment effects most in the early and apparently equivocal stages of the disease. Details may vary Avith the stage of the disease, but the principles are unchanging; they are the insurance of absolute, uninterrupted rest for the joint, and correction of the de- formity. As a rule, the only drugs required will be cod-liver oil, iron, quinine, and an occasional laxative. The oil should be given in small doses, and not persisted in during the Avarm Aveather if it make the child sick ; in large doses it may cause diarrhoea. In the early days, though there may be but little effusion, and signs may be slight, confinement in bed is absolutely necessary. Even if no other sign of the disease exist than