406 HIP-JOINT DISEASE. other hand, the joint may be attacked in a tuberculous child who for a year or more has been bed-ridden and not exposed to injury. All these cases are tuberculous; and when the arthritis supervened on an injury the hurt had impaired the nutrition of the tissues, and so rendered them an easy prey to the bacilli. Sometimes the disease closely follows one of the exanthemata, but even in these circumstances the chronic disease is tuberculous; the acute disease, however, is not. infrequently septic (page 364). It has been suggested by Barwell, Sayre, and others, that the irritation set up by a long prepuce may be the deter- mining cause of articular disease, or of spasmodic club foot. But I must confess that, though I have long been trying to find unmistakable confirmation of this theory, I have hitherto failed to do so. It is quite possible that disturbance of the grey matter of the cord thus brought about may have a trophic influence (page 412) upon a joint, and it appears to me more than likely that the long-continued or severe peri- pheral irritation might cause serious disturbance, not only of articular and muscular nerves, but of the entire nervous system. Many a time have I seen a fretful, unhappy or excitable child quietly settle down in improved health and contentment after the prepuce has been removed. Mechanics of tlie disease.—When the hip joint is in- flamed it is necessary that the head of the femur shall be so placed in the acetabulum as to exert the least possible pressure between 'the affected surfaces, and also that there shall be no sudden movement at the joint. The first provision is obtained by the thigh becoming slightly flexed, for then the strong and unyielding part of the capsular ligament (with the ilio-femoral or accessory ligament) is rendered slack. In flexion this strong part of the capsule is loosened, and the head of the femur lies gently in the joint; the more that the ligament is tightened, as happens in extension of the limb, the more firmly is the femur forced into the acetabulum, and the greater is the intra-articular pressure. The provision against sudden and jarring movements is made by the various muscles at the front of the joint being kept, by reflex influence, in a state of watchful and shielding tension. Just as the shrouds ascend from the hull of the