CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. -J28 the smallness ot' the evacuations and the increasing difficulty of passing them. The child becomes feeble, dyspeptic, and sick ; and when the obstruction is at or near the rectum, a doughy mass of hardening feces may be detected in the left iliac fossa. Above the stricture the bowel becomes enorm- ously expanded by accumulation, and ulceration of the thin wall may determine a rapidly fatal peritonitis. Sometimes the constipation is associated with a watery diarrhoea, the result of irritation of the mucous membrane of the bowel. Chronic peritonitis may begin at, and be confined to, the neighbour- hood of the obstruction, but it may in time become general. A careful examination of the bowel should be made by the anus, and if an organic stricture be iound, it must be dealt with as suggested on page 312. Mild cases of obstruction may be trusted to recover without any surgical interference. If the cause of the obstruction be obscure, and the symptoms be increasing in severit}r, the treatment should be directed towards the quieting of the alimentary canal by the adminis- tration of small doses of opium. In some of these obscure cases s}rstematic massage of the belly is found of great benefit. Purgatives must be avoided, but cascara—preferably in the form of an elixir—may be prescribed. If the symptoms become worse, it will be necessary to open the abdomen by a small incision and explore. Hardened masses of faeces in the sigmoid flexure may be softened by enemata of warm water and oil, and broken up by systematic massage through the abdominal wall. The surgeon must personally administer such enemata; it is too important a matter to be handed over to a casual attendant. Massage, when methodically and repeatedly employed, proves an excellent tonic to the torpid bowel and constipation. Inflammation of the appendix (;perityphlitis) is usually caused by catarrhal inflammation, or by the presence of a hardened concretion of mucus or feces in the vermiform process, or by the process having been twisted, or kinked, so that its secretion can no longer escape into the caecum. Independent inflammation is very rarely met with. The frequency of the occurrence of inflammation of the appendix in children is probably due to the abundance of lymphoid tissue which that structure contains. The wall of the inflamed