213 FOREIGN BODY IN STOMACH. gives assurance to the contrary. Experience with oesopha- geal forceps and coin-catchers is not generally so satisfactory as that with the chimney-sweep’s brush. A thorough examination should be made under chloroform, one finger being thrust down the gullet whilst the fingers of the other hand explore along the neck. In certain cases the X rays may prove useful. If an angular body were tightly jammed in the oesophagus, prompt oesophagotomy should be done. For a foreign body in the stomach, porridge, pea-soup, or bread-and-milk should be given, after • which an emetic may he administered, the surgeon being ready to perform tracheo- tomy. If it does not appear with the vomit, the hope then Avould be that it might pass per anum. In the meanwhile the diet should be such as is calculated to form a full, pultaceous mass, in which the object might safely descend. Purgatives should not be given; it might even be advisable to delay the action of the bowel by small quantities of opium. The gastric juice has no solvent action upon coins and such-like bodies. It is surprising how easily, in this way, comparatively large objects may pass through the ileo-ctecal valve and the anus of a child. I have known a small button-hook, which was fortunately closed at the time, pass per anum without the least discomfort. The feces should be care- fully searched by breaking them up in a vessel with quantities of water, and then gently pouring off the fluid part. Sooner or later the object will be discovered in the sediment at the bottom of the vessel. The child need not know of the continuance of the search, or of the anxiety. Mumps is an infectious inflammation of the parotid gland; it is often epidemic, and one attack usually insures immunity lor the future. The submaxillary and sublingual glands may be affected as well as the parotid. The infective material is probably conveyed by the breath, and contagion may be spread even before the swelling of the gland has been manifested, and for an indefinite number of days, possibly lor some Aveeks, after its disappearance. If an outbreak occur in a school, many children may be attacked, notAvithstand- mg the prompt adoption of precautionary isolation. Infants are rarely affected, even in a severe outbreak. The period