445 ARTHRECTOMY. products of decomposition which fail to find free escape; exhaustion and hectic fever being also thus produced. Arthrectomy.—The limb is thoroughly “ cleansed,” and a horse-shoe incision is made into the joint, as described under the heading “Excision” (page 447). With the use of scalpel, scissors, and Volkmann’s spoon, the whole of the diseased synovial membrane is cleaned away, and every part of the affected surfaces of bone and cartilage is thoroughly scraped. The semilunar fibro-cartilages are taken away, as are also all diseased parts of the capsule of the joint. Special care is paid to scraping out every ulcerated patch of cartilage and bone, cavities thus being excavated in the femur or tibia large enough to receive the top of the finger or thumb. The saAv is not used. The posterior surface of the patella is thoroughly scraped, but that bone is not taken away unless it appear extensively and deeply implicated. The lateral ligaments should of course be spared, and the crucial ligaments must not be cut’; otherwise the joint might be rendered feeble and untrustworthy. Abscesses and sinuses communicating with the joint are zealously cleaned out, and the granulation-tissue in the subcrural pouch is also efficiently dealt with. From time to time during the operation the interior of the joint is washed out with a warm solution of zinc chloride (grs. 10 to yi), and when, after the expenditure of a large amount of time and industry, there seems to be not a particle of diseased tissue left, the interior of the joint is dried, and the wound is closed with a continuous suture, a strong suture being in- serted in the divided patellar ligament. No drainage-tube is to be used. The wound is then dressed with sterilised gauze, and is evenly compressed with a thin cotton bandage; and the leg, knee, and thigh are enclosed between lateral splints of house- flannel and plaster-of-Paris. If all goes well, these first dressings may not need changing for two or three weeks I have often been astonished at the general improvement which the child has manifested after this thorough operation. After the operation the child may at once begin to get well, and sometimes without the temperature being raised a single degree throughout the convalescence. Though the operation of arthrectomy has been described in connection with the