375 CHRONIC PERIOSTITIS. a quiet osteomyelitis, or of tuberculosis—may be the cause of persistent enlargement and pain. A free opening into the shaft will reveal the exact nature of affairs, and may obviate the risk of a calamitous amputation. When a sequestrum is quietly isolated in the end of a long bone, the bone swells, and, unless the sequestrum be removed, the joint may be at last destroyed. When the disease is symmetrical, it will probably be of syphilitic origin. A sequestrum, surrounded by an extensive formation of new bone, closely resembles a sarcoma; but the introduction of a scalpel or a steel director shows sarcoma to be soft and succulent, whilst the inflammatory disease is hard, or yields pus. The clinical history and symptoms often mislead (page 120), and the surgeon will do well to hold his judgment in suspense until Jhe has, under chloroform, thoroughly explored the interior of the tumour. Chronic periostitis may be the result of wet, cold, or injury. It is most often met with in the syphilitic or tuber- culous subject, and is generally associated with ostitis. The bones most frequently affected are those of the extremities. As always happens when a fibrous tissue is inflamed, the pain is worse at night, and when the days are wet and cold, and after exercise. The treatment consists in the application of leeches; in enclosing the limb in a plaster-of-Paris splinting; and in aiding venous return by raising the limb on a pillow. Iodide of potassium and iron, and (later) cod-liver oil, may be prescribed. Experience suggests that, out of hospital, the treatment of chronic disease is not always carried out with sufficient firmness and thoroughness. (The subject of dacty- litis is dealt Avith on page Gl.) Chronic diffuse ostitis is due to congenital syphilis, and is referred to in the chapter dealing Avith that disease (page 93). Chronic osteomyelitis may be a mild form of the acute process just described, or it may be secondary to disease of an articulation, an amputation-wound, or other injury to the bone. The femur and tibia are most likely to be affected. The symptoms are deep-seated thickening in the limb, Avith general enlargement of the bone; pain, tenderness, and con- stitutional disturbance.