HYDROCELE OF TUNICA VAGINALIS. 339 near. The cyst may bo occasionally punctured with a needle, or, if necessary, the fluid may be withdrawn by a fine cannula after which that side of the scrotum should be carefully strapped (Fig. 78). Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, without any com- munication with the funicular process, may exist at birth. When it has been certainly ascertained that a persistent hydrocele has no communication with the peritoneal cavity, multiple puncture may be performed with a clean and slender sewing needle. No other treatment is likely to be required, though tapping with a hypodermic needle may, if necessary, be resorted to. It is unsafe to inject iodine or any other irritant; I have known met with both in boys and in girls. I have sometimes seen children wearing trusses over such cysts, on the supposition that they Avere herniae. The swelling is at times so hard as to appear solid; it may resemble a testis in feel and size. If close up against the ring, it must be drawn down for examination; the light-test is impossible when the tumour is high up and covered Avith fat. It is sometimes difficult to recognise for certain an encysted hydrocele which is lodged in the inguinal canal. But if it seem to have a definite upper limit it is not likely to be a hernia; moreover, it is fixed and painless. If the scrotum contain both the glands, it cannot be an undescended testis; and, as the SAvelling does not increase in size, it cannot be a commencing sarcoma. A hard, painless, rounded SAvelling above the testicle can scarcely be anything else than encysted hydrocele. The surgeon must assure himself that the SAvelling is not associated Avith a piece of intestine; the extensive sloughing of the scrotum folloAV that treat- ment, and in another case suppurative orchitis super- vened. Expectancy has much to recommend it in all cases of hydrocele in childhood. Encysted hydrocele of the cord (Fig. 79) is often Fig. 78.—Hydrocele of Tunica Vagin- alis and of Funi- cular Process (In- fantile). T, Testis. Fig. 79.—Encysted Hydrocele of Cord. T, Testis.