188 CYSTIC LYMPHANGIOMA. edges of the wound fall together and adhere, and before the fluid again begins to distend the sac, the cicatrix is strong enough to bear the strain of the increasing contents. It may be necessary in dealing with this often troublesome affection to daub the inside of the cyst with a strong carbolic lotion, or even to dissect out the cyst. Dermoid cysts also occur in this region. They are ovoid, and bulge not only into the floor of the mouth, but also into the submaxillary region of the neck. Sometimes they are very large. They arc the result of epiblastic inclusion during development, and they are best removed by dissection (if practicable) through the mouth. Dermoid cysts bulging into the floor of the mouth are often mistaken for ranula. They are caused by dis- tension of an unobliterated part of a branchial cleft with the secretion of its epithelial lining; this will be mucus if from the pharyngeal part, and sebaceous material if from the dermal part of the cleft. Cystic lymphangioma in the floor of the mouth may be mistaken for ranula; indeed, it is often impossible to make at once a diagnosis. (A further account is given on page 130.) The sublingual region is often invaded by the cystic growth, which may find its way amongst the muscles until it bulges in the submaxillary region. The mass is painless, lobulated, and evidently composed of cysts of different sizes. In one case the growth extended with great rapidity,, the tongue being pushed up until mastication and deglutition were seriously impeded; saliva ran continuously from the mouth, and the child grew thin. The submaxillary and upper cervical region became invaded, and the condition looked desperate. Then the growth underwent spontaneous inflammation, subsiding Avithout suppuration, until nothing remained of it but a local thickening. As is generally the case Avith large lymphangiomata, operative treatment for its removal was out of the question—moreover, it was superfluous. Prominent cysts should be punctured from time to time. Epulis may be simple hypertrophy, or an outgroAvth of granulation tissue caused by a decayed tooth. It may be scraped off Avith a sharp spoon. Myelo-sarcomatous groAvth