408 IIIP-JOINT DISEASE. Pain in hip-joint disease is apt, like the cry of the plover, to decoy one from the object of the search. At the beginning of the trouble it is usually located at the knee, over the patella, or along the front or the inner side of the thigh; that is, in the area of distribution of the terminal filaments of the obturator nerve, the obturator nerve supplying both the hip joint and the knee. An analogous phenomenon is met Avith in the case of pain referred to the end of the penis in vesical calculus (page 291). Sometimes in hip disease pain is referred to the calf, and sometimes there is entire absence of pain, attention being drawn to the joint, not by the child complaining, but merely by his limping. The knee pains are worse after the child has been running about, and sometimes his mother finds him crying because of them. They may cause him to start in his sleep, and this long before ulceration of the cartilage of the joint has supervened. These painful startings are due to muscular spasms excited by peripheral irritation of nerve filaments in the inflamed joint. The startings occur at night, because, as the child goes to sleep, the sentinel muscles are off their guard, and, having temporarily relaxed their watch, resume it with sudden con- traction, and greatly to the injury of the articular nerves. The pains are often ascribed to “ rheumatism,” and thus the child loses that early treatment which is so urgently demanded. Sometimes, indeed, relief for the pains is in- effectually sought in the application of poultices to the knee, or of liniments to the thigh! Later, pain occurs at the hip itself. Its presence is made evident by gently pressing with the fingers in the middle of the base of Scarpa’s triangle, or between the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter; also by pushing the trochanter inwards, or by gently rotating the thigh outwards. The old method of diagnosis by striking the heel or the great trochanter is unscientific; it does not differentiate disease of the hip from that of the sacro-iliac joint, or of the vertebra. In each case pain may follow the blow, and the child, being thus hurt or alarmed, will burst out crying, and spoil the case for further examination. The attitude is characteristic. The intra-articular pressure being increased, the child cannot stand evenly upon his two feet; were he to do so, the head of the femur would be