108 ENLARGEMENT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. in which a child has died from the administration of chloroform; but the occasions in which I have seen this calamity most nearly approached were in operations for the removal of tuberculous glands from the neck. In more than one case I thought that the child was dead —in spite of treatment by hanging it up by the feet so as to stimulate the anaemic brain, and at the same time resorting to slow and rhythmic compression of the chest by way of artificial respiration. In two of these cases chloroform was being somewhat freely administered, without regard to the pulse, only respiration being watched. I am sure of this, that the pulse is terribly apt to fail before the respiration; and I regret the teaching of the Hyderabad Commission—- that only the respiration need be watched. After extensive operations upon the necks of children whose glands are involved in advanced decay, a vigorous clearance and erasion acts like the pouring of oil on stormy waters. This much the surgeon can safely promise, that his operation, which will be associated with no serious risk, may be trusted to effect a very great improvement, and that, if it unfortunately have to be partially repeated, the second operation will probably be successful. The parents must not regard the operation as of a speculative nature, and the alternative should have due 'weight when the operation is being urged: if nothing be done, the case must take its own tedious and perilous course. Operation.—The hair should be cut short and the side of the neck thoroughly cleansed. Chloroform having been ad- ministered, a sufficiently free incision is made over the tumour —most likely along one of the borders of the sterno-mastoid. The incision should in every case be parallel with the glandular chain—that is, in the length of the neck, not across it—so that, as the surgeon proceeds, he has merely to lengthen his incision, if more room is needed. Sometimes, indeed, it happens that the surgeon has to weed out enlarged glands all down the chain, from the front of the transverse process of the atlas even to behind the clavicle. It is an error to keep the incision too small, for a good deal may have to be done through it—much more, perhaps, than the operator had anticipated. A great deal of room may be secured for