TRACHEOTOMY. 50 food escapes through the tube, as, the muscles ot the larynx being then paralysed, food will probably enter the lungs and set up “deglutition-pneumonia.” The prognosis in infants and young children is especially bad. It is bad also when the membrane comes away in thick flakes. During certain epidemics hardly any children recover, in spite of the most skilful tracheotomy and nursing. On the other hand, it has sometimes happened that half a dozen diphtheritic children in succession have recovered after tracheotomy—before the days of antitoxin. The child may be expected to recover when he swallows food and stimulants abundantly and well; when his tempera- ture keeps down — but not abnormally low — and the tube discharges clear mucus freely ; when his colour holds good, and he takes increasing interest in his toys, or in what is going on around him. But he is not “ out of the wood ” until convalescence has so far advanced that he is beyond the risk of paralysis of the cardiac and respiratory muscles. The after-treatment.—The strength must be kept up with milk, egg-flip, wine, and quinine. But if the muscles of the glottis be affected with diphtheritic paralysis, or their action hindered, so that fluid enters the larynx, the child should no longer be fed by the mouth. If fluid food go the wrong way, it comes up through the tracheotomy tube, mixed with frothy mucus. A very soft (Jaques) No. 8 male catheter should be gently passed along the floor of the nares, through the pharynx, and into the stomach ; through this the food can be administered by a glass syringe or funnel. The juice of lemons, or of some other fresh fruit, should occasionally be given. The first drops of the fluid should be introduced slowly, so that the surgeon may assure himself that the instrument has passed the right way. Peptonised enemata must be freely used; one being injected before the child is replaced in bed after the operation. Quinine and iron must be persistently administered, and small pieces of ice may be put into the mouth to allay thirst. The food is to be given in small quantities, and at short intervals—say, of an hour and a half or two hours. The stomach should not be overloaded, lest vomiting supervene; the subject of diphtheria cannot be expected to have either