DISEASE OF THE ELBOW JOINT. 454 and a shortened arm after tuberculous disease, for which he had been under my care eighteen years previously. But excision is rarely required; patient and prolonged supervision of the child, and perfect rest of the limb, may restore the joint, even after long-continued suppuration; still, excision of the shoulder joint in childhood is a very satisfactory operation, both as regards immediate and remote results. It is performed by a long anterior incision, and is combined with arthrectomy. No splint should be applied- after the operation, and movements of the limb should be early resorted to. For epiphysitis, see pages 91 and 365. The elbow joint.—Entering into the formation of the elbow joint are the humerus, the ulna, and the radius, their articular surfaces being enclosed in a capsular ligament, and lubricated by a single synovial membrane, one reflection of which descends into the superior radio-ulnar articulation and lines the orbicular ligament. Synovitis.—One of the first objective signs is ' the partial effacement of the dimple below the external condyle of the humerus when the elbow is extended. At the depths of this dimple are the head of the radius, and the most subcu- taneous part of the elbow joint. When synovitis is suspected, a careful comparison of the two elbows should be instituted, and first as regards this dimple. Bulging may also be found at the front and back of the internal cond}de ; and as the joint becomes more distended, a fulness may be detected on each side of and above the olecranon process, and .even at the front of the elbow against the pronator radii teres. Another sign is increased warmth of the surrounding skin ;• but in estimating this, due allowance must be made, perhaps* for the fact of this elbow having been carefully wrapped up, or the other arm being left exposed through a sliort-sleeved frock. Kedness of the skin is not an early sign of inflam- mation unless the synovitis be excessive. Some stiffness there is certain to be. The child will not allow the forearm to be completely extended, because in this position the strongest part of the capsule is put on the stretch and the intra-articnlar pressure thereby increased. As the syno- vitis increases, the whole neighbourhood of the joint becomes