LANCING THE GUMS. 190 permanent set, the corresponding milk tooth lingers long in its place. If, then, there be a fluid swelling in the jaw, and a milk tooth be found long after the time at which it is usual for it to be shed, considerable help is obtained for the diagnosis; a certain tooth, moreover, is conspicuously absent from the permanent set. The cyst may be of the size of a marble, or even of a small egg ; it may grow into the antrum, and take its place, as it Avere. The bone is expanded, and occasionally the sAvelling is painful. The fingers readily perceive that the tumour is a central expansion of bone, and that it contains fluid; the bony walls yield to pressure, and then return to shape Avitli crepitation, like the doubling of stiff parchment. On puncture, thick fluid may be drawn off, and on a probe being introduced the missing tooth may be discovered. (See page 118.) Treatment.—A portion of the cyst must be excised, and the tooth extracted, obliteration being accelerated by scraping and compression. Lancing the gums is resorted to less frequently noAv that the diagnosis and treatment of children’s diseases are better understood. Though speculative incision into the tooth-bearing gum of an infant Avho suffers from fretfulness, diarrhoea, or convulsions, is still occasionally employed, it is illogical to argue that, because the child improves after the operation, the lancet has afforded the relief. Infants habitually recover from these conditions Avithout the gum being lanced, and dentition is a physiological process. These infantile troubles generally appear Avhen weaning is taking place, and are often due to irritation by unsuitable food. (See pp. 36 and 167.) A proper dietary, the administration of rhubarb and soda, castor oil, or bromide of potassium, will often do away with the supposed need for the lancet. Probably, in not a feAV cases in Avhich the use of the lancet has been folloAved by immediate relief, the wound has been soundly healed again long before the suspected tooth has appeared. But if speculative incisions be made into the gums of a child Avho is fretful because he is ill, rather than because the eruption of the teeth is obstructed, serious trouble may folloAV. If the child be Aveakly, the loss of blood may suffice to extinguish his chance of existence; Avhilst if the blood-vessels