SPINAL CARIES. 260 treatment then consists in the use of plaster of Paris jackets, as systematised by l)r. Sayre, or of poroplastic felt corsets; but, as already remarked, this is only the second best method, as it does not ensure absolute rest. To prepare the Sayre rollers, crinoline muslin is torn into strips about five inches wide, and five or six yards long. The muslin should be free of sizing so that the gypsum may be more thoroughly rubbed into its meshes; the gypsum should be fresh, or should, at least, have been kept in a dry place. It is important that the bandages be quite loosely rolled, so that immediately they are put into wafer every molecule of the plaster may be straightway wetted. The roller is clipped, not soaked in the water, and should be applied dripping wet; squeezing it drier in the hand causes a loss of the gypsum, as well as of time. The addition of a little common salt to the water hastens the setting. A tight-fitting cinglet is drawn over the body, and a long- thick pad run beneath it along each side of the spinous processes, to prevent chafing. The cinglet is then drawn down smooth, and secured in the perinteum by a safety-pin. No so-called “ dinner pad ” need be used. The rollers should be applied closely and evenly around the trunk from just above the trochanters to high up in the arm-pits. The child need not be suspended whilst the jacket is being applied, but should be standing, with the arms held up out of the way. Some surgeons apply the jacket in strips, as the patient is lying down. But as the jacket is not applied with the idea of straightening the spine, but merely for securing rest, the position adopted matters little. Davy preferred to have the child lying in a hammock during the application, the hammock being incorporated with the casing. When the jacket is on, the child must still he kept very quiet, and as much in the horizontal position as possible, in order that the diseased bones may be in a condition of con- tinuous rest. I have had many children attending school in their jackets, after permission for them to lie during school hours had been obtained. They should not go to school both morning and afternoon, and Sunday should he a day of perfect rest. By a little ingenuity the trunk can be washed without