231 OPERA T10X. streptococcus pyogenes was present in considerable numbers, and was probably the cause of tlie non-healing. It would have been interesting to know if these harmful bacilli had been lurking in the mouth before the operation. At any rate, the operator should take care not to introduce them with his instruments or sutures; he should have every- thing sterilised before operating, and although the region does not allow of his using the customary carbolic lotion, yet at least he should do his utmost to have the child’s mouth and his own Ungers aseptic. Enlarged tonsils and adenoids should be got rid of, and carious teeth extracted, some weeks before- hand. And if just before the day has arrived the tongue be found coated or the breath foul, or if the child be vomiting, purged, or coughing, or the temperature be raised, the operation must be postponed. The age for operation.—Formerly it was considered •advisable to postpone interference until puberty, so that the patient might assist the surgeon by clearing the throat of blood and mucus; but with the systematic use of chloroform this is altered. I am getting much earlier with my cleft- palate operations;. one of a series of successful results was in a child just two years old Avhen I operated on her complete cleft. When her father wrote to me a few days before the operation he said: “ She is now two years old, and as far as we can judge her speech will be affected by the cleft.” He was cpiite right; if the speech is to be improved to the utmost the mouth must be roofed in at the very earliest moment. For a soft palate, the child being in good health, the time for operating is somewhere in the first six months, I think. For a hard and soft palate together, it is, I think, in the second year. The spring and summer are the best time for operating. East Avinds, fogs, catarrhs, coughs, and colds have then passed away, and, moreover, a good natural light can almost be depended on. The more highly arched the palate the better for the operation, for the greater is the amount of available muco-periosteum; sometimes even raAV surfaces of flap, rather than edges, can be obtained. The operation.—The cliloroformist stands at the head of the patient, using a Junker apparatus. The chief assistant stands on the left of the patient, opposite the operator, and a