224 IIARE LIP. If the piece of bone be taken away the central incisor teeth are sacrificed, the month is made small, the new upper lip hangs flat and depressed, and a mass of tissue, which might be very serviceable in the subsequent closure of the clef't palate, is lost. W hen the intermaxillary bone is growing from the tip of the nose, it must be sacrificed. The rule should certainly be to try to save the inter- maxillary bone. If it be not very prominent the lip may be operated upon without heed of the bone ; constant pressure of the lip will cause its gradual recession. When the bone is attached on one side it may be pushed back by the thumb, or twisted back by sequestrum forceps, with the blades wrapped round with lint, so as to diminish the bruising. If the bone be free on each side, but firmly attached to the septum, it may be forced into its proper position after the removal of a wedge-shaped piece from the bony septum by means of scissors or cutting forceps. If hremorrhage follow, it is certainly advisable that the rest of the operation be not undertaken until after some days, by which time there will have been recovery from the shock. The cautery at a dull heat may arrest the bleeding. Chloroform should invariably be given, either on a piece of lint or by means of a Junker apparatus. After dividing the labio-maxillary folds by the tip of the scalpel, the attachments should be thoroughly torn up by the finger or by the handle of the scalpel. Blood can easily be kept out of the mouth by laying a torn piece of sponge safely beneath the lip, and by seizing the coronary artery and any other bleeding point by pressure-forceps; the forceps, hanging over the face, keep the lip everted, and prevent oozing into the mouth. In the subject of Figs. 49, 50 it was impossible to gain any advantage by preserving the intermaxillary bone; so it was removed, and with it a considerable amount of the advanced nasal septum ; the sides of the prolabium were then trimmed off, so that the median strip might be laid down the front of the septum to form an integumental column between the nostrils. Unless the maxillary portions of the lip be very thoroughly freed from the subjacent bone, it is impossible to get the vivified edges approximated without leaving so much tension