159 TREATMENT. required. The intense thirst may he partially allayed by fresh lemon juice, with sugar and iee. Childi’en are especially fond of fresh fruit when they are feverish, and it is generally good for them. Each dressing should be carried out so as to cause the least exposure to the air. Air is a great irritant; the surface should be exposed to it as little as possible. One part should be covered up before another wrapping is undone. Warm carbolic acid solution (1 in 60) keeps the Avound aseptic and deadens the sensibility of the nerves. Linen soaked in it may be applied under oil-silk, so that evaporation cannot take place or the dressings become adherent. Additional lotion can be introduced by a syringe, but watch must be kept against carbolic acid poisoning (page 9). Lint thickly spread with vaseline and eucalyptus oil may be laid on a scorched surface, and over this a padding of cotton-wool bandaged. Blebs should be opened up and dusted Avith boracic poAvder. If the child sutler, chloroform may be administered for the dressings. I have not experienced much benefit from the use of the saturated solutions of carbonate of soda, Avliich have been recommended as lotions. Dusting the denuded surface Avith flour from a kitchen dredger forms a thin protective cake over the exposed neme filaments, and shields them from the air. As serum oozes up and loosens the crusts, fresh flour may be dusted on. If the bums be very severe, the child may be kept .constantly lying in a Avarm bath. The more thorough the rest, the more rapid the healing ; the neck should be steadied betAveen large sand- bags ; a limb should be fixed by a splint or a weight. Even if a limb be deeply charred, it is inadvisable to resort to prompt amputation, as the su'peradded shock might prove fatal. Erysipelas, meningitis, broncho-pneumonia, suppura- tion, exhaustion, or coma may supervene. Traumatic fever must be anticipated, and combated Avith stimulants or, if necessary, opium. Should erysipelas supervene, it may be treated by common Avhite-lead paint, or by the liniment of lactate of lead. Deformities follow the healing of extensive burns. It is often said that the cicatrix after a burn contracts more than any other kind of scar ; probably the true explanation is that