19 SYMPTOMS. and, though chiefly upon the chest and abdomen, it may occur upon the limbs, and may be followed by desquamation. In some epidemics diphtheria closely follows scarlet fever and also measles, and at the same time the child may be the subject both of diphtheria and scarlet fever. When asked to see a child who is feverish without ap- parent cause, the surgeon should at once inspect the throat. Such a rule is necessary, as diphtheria often comes on very insidiously. There may be no prominent symptom, though the lymphatic glands about the angle of the jaw may be perhaps enlarged and painful, and the urine albuminous. Sometimes, on looking at what was thought to be an ordinary “ sore throat,” one is shocked to find it covered Avith ominous patches. A grey patch with ulceration upon the soft palate, or palatine folds, can be nothing but diphtheritic, but patches upon the tonsils—the soft palate being free—may not im- probably prove of a harmless nature. Although prostration is one of the chief characteristics of diphtheria, still, children may be seen with one or both tonsils swollen and marked with these grey patches, when there is nothing to suggest the existence of serious illness. The presence of such cases in a school, or in the out-patient waiting-room, may widely spread the disease. ,A mild diphtheria often runs its course without attracting attention and without recognition. It may be only when the inflammation spreads to the glottis that its urgent nature becomes manifest, or when perhaps some form of paralysis denotes its identity. But sometimes it clears off so happily and completely that the correctness of the diag- nosis of diphtheria is seriously questioned; a well-directed quarantine may be thus prematurely relaxed, and disaster follow. The patient with a mild attack, imperfectly isolated, may spread infection which produces the disease in its most virulent form. Too much care cannot be paid to the matter of isolation, and so long as a doubt exists as to the exact nature of a suspicious tonsillar or pharyngeal inflammation, risk should be studiously avoided. In my own practice tracheotomy had been performed on a child for, as it was thought, simply acute laryngitis; and next day the child was playing happily with its toys. In four days she was quite well again. We felt fully satisfied