MEDICINAL TREATMENT 272 This nofologift mentions colic and the iliac paflion as fimilar in their nature, and only varying in degree, and daffies them both under the ar- rangement of fpafmodic difeafe : but, in addition to his general princi- ple of fpafm being the proximate caufe both of fever* and inflammationf, he alfo gives it as his opinion that colic, which is a fpafmodic difeafe, fre- quently becomes the caufe of inflammation in the bowels. But independent of this effed, he recommends bleeding as the firft an- tifpafmodic remedy thatfhould be madeufe of; and it is of no confequence, in my mind, whether bleeding is made ufe of as an antifpafmodic or an antiphlogiftic; as the phantoms of the theory of medicine will not divert its powers. If we refer to Dodor Cullen’s defcription of thefe difeafes we fhall meet with an inaccuracy of confiderable praft ica! importance; in the firff place, colic and ilius are both faid to be fpafmodic difeafes, but afterwards we * “The idea of fever, then, may be, that a fpafm of the extreme vefT. Is, however induced, proves an irritation to the heart and arteries; and that this continues till the fpafm is relaxed or overcome. There are many appearances which fupport this opinion; and there is little doubt that a foaftn does take place, which proves an irritation to the heart, and therefore may be confulered as a principal part in the proximate caufe of fever. It will (till, however, remain a queft'on, what is the caufe of fpafm ; whether it be direftly produced by the remote caufes of fever, or if it be only a part of the operation of the vis medicatrix naturec.” Cullen’s Praft.ce of Phyfic, vol. 1, page 93. + “ From the doftrine of fever, we are led to believe, that an increafed aftion of the heart and ar- teries is not fupported for any length of time by any other means than s fp .fm affcftir.g the extreme veflels; and that the fame fpafm takes place in inflammation, feems likely, beraufe that every confi- derable inflammation is introduced by a cold flage, and is accompanied wih that and other circum- ftances of pyrexia. It feems alfo probable, that fomerhing analogous to this occurs even in the cafe of thofc inflammations which appear lofs confiderable, and to be purely topical.” Cullen’s Praftice «f Phyfic, vol 1, page 278. arc