no MORTIFICATION IN lofs of a leg; but he afterwards died of a complaint in his head, very fi- milar to an apoplexy*. I have no doubt but a perfon of inferior abilities, and lefs converfant with the effe&s of amputation, would have formed a very different opinion on this fubjeft. He would not have difcovered, that the lofs of a leg was fuch an efficacious remedy for an head ach of long ftanding; but it is probable that, with much more humble inference, he would have fuppofed that the lofs of blood and fubfequent abftemious regimen might for a time correft the plethoric hate of the fyftem, and remove the pain in the head; and this feems to be evidently proved by the event, as we find that a happy reftoration to health and returning luxu- ry was the unqueflionable caufeof returning difeafe. If therefore bleed- ing was neceffary, it was after the cure of the leg was accomplished, and not immediately after amputation. It may be proper here to obferve that bleeding, bark, and opium, are the principal remedies that are recommended in cafes of external injury, fuch for inflance as gun-ffiot wounds; but under what circumftances, or * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 332, Happy for our learned author that Mr. Foot had quitted the ftage, before this work was prefent- cd to the public: but if he had not died the cafe would have been lefs complete. It would cer- tainly have afforded a rich harveft for his pen, and might have given birth to a new devil upon two fticks, by once more converting his fatanic majefty into a bottle conjurer; on which occafion our hero might have been brought forward to great advantage. The prefent time would alfo have been particularly propitious, as the rifing of the college oflurgeons, like that of pandaemonium, might have furnilhed the young Genius with a Throne. And as the fuperfeding of an a£t of parliament by let- ters patent would provide a fubjeft for legal controverfy, a great law Lord, who is certainly well ac- quainted with the merits of the queftion, might have been added to the drama, whofe fplendid abil - tie^ would have decorated the fcepe, whilft his profound knowledge and found judgment might have «*£*lained and determined the Letter of the Law'. to