THE OPERATIVE ,134 free from legal restraint that fpecies of informations which is neceflary for concluding operations, foon became an objed of general atten- tion ; and fo great was the ardour with which the (Indents in furgery purfued this fplendid branch of their profeflion, that, in a very few years after this emancipation, we find Mr. Pott f became apprehenfive left every other part of furgery fhould be fet abide as unworthy of attention. If we confider this only in a mechanical view, it is certainly a fpecies of knowledge eafily to fie obtained; but it will be impoftible to make an * Before the late aft of parliament for making the furgeons and the barbers of London two feparate and diftinft corporations; the furgeons, who were members of the then united company, befides being iubjeft to the power of fpiritual courts, were liable to many heavy charges, amounting often to more than iobl. before they had fervcd all the offices of the company. And the privileges and advantages they enjoyed, being chiefly under charters granted them in different reigns, were lately found very precarious, and not able to fereen them in Wcftminfter Hall from feveral expenfive offices, from which they were formerly fuppofed to have been exempted. Bnt fince the obtaining the abpvementioned aft, all their faid privileges are confirmed by the fanftion of parliament, with the addition of feveral new ones. It muff be confeffed, that both anatomy and furgery flourifhed much later in England than in France, where all poffible encouragements were given to both ; while, in London, the governors of the two hofpitals, being moftly citizens, out of a falfe policy, entirely refufed the education of pu- pils in one hofpital, and allowed of but nine at a time in the other. And the rulers of the barber- furgeons company at the fame time contrived a by-law to prevent the knowledge of anatomy from fpreading •, cunning by forefeeing that the younger furgeons by that knowledge would advance too faff upon them. They made it a penalty of ten pounds to diffeft a body out of the hall without their leave, which was fcarce to be obtained : and if anyone offended ^as they called it) they were fure to be profecuted. The improvements in anatomy and furgery, fince thele reftraints have been removed, will fufficiently convince the world of the unfitnefs of them. Le Dran’s Surgery, with remarks See. By William Chefelden, Efq. page 470 et 472. f Pott’s preface to Obfervations on Fiftula Lachrymalis ; and preface to Obfervations on Wounds on the head. accompliflied