*53 TOPICAL BLEEDING John Hunter has given fotne * lingular inftances of this difeafe, he does not recommend this practice. Whether leeches would or would not be ufeful on fuch occafions is a queftion of no great importance to the doc- trine of topical bleeding, as the order of the circulation is here violated, and the blood efcaped from its natural boundaries; every one, who has attended to this branch of pra&ice, mufi have feen frequent inflances where ecchymolis has been produced by leeches, and perhaps it is more frequently the caufe of this difeale than the means of cure. I believe it is a remedy that is in high reputation in the higher circles, and as it may prove an innocent amufement where a gentleman has been fo unfortunate CASE. * “Mrs. B~~t fell backwards and pitched upon a pail which was behind her, and the left labium pu» dendi flruck againfl its handle with the whole weight of her body. Within five minutes after the accident, the bruifed part fwelled to as great a degree as the fkin would allow ; from which fudden appearance of the fwelling, and the feeling of fluctuation, I con- cluded that blood had been extravafated by the rupture or forne finall artery. I bled her, and defired a poultice to be applied to the part, in order to keep the fkin as eafy as poflible under fuch diftention. Believing the tumor to arife from extravafated blood, I did not chufe to open It, that the bleed- ing might be fooner flopped by the preffure of the extravafated blood againfl the fides of the cavity. Some hours after the accident the fkin burft, and a good deal of blood came away. On examiningthc wound I found the opening of confiderable fize, leading into a cavity as large as the egg of a goofe, and filled with coagulated blood, which I did not remove for the reafon given above, that it might affifl in flopping the veffels which were flill bleeding. The poultice was continued, the blet ling gradually became lefs ; and every time I examined the part, I found the cavity diminifhed, but flill filled with coagulated blood, which continued to be pufhed out of the wound, and after fome time a flough came off from the bruifed fkin, which enlarged the fize of the wround. About a fortnight after the accident the parts were all fo much collapfed, as to have forced out the blood entirely, and there feemed only a fuperficial fore, not above an inch long and half an inch wide. This praflice fhould be generally followed in fuch cafes of ecchymofis,” I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 196 and 197, Qq to