38i PART OF SURGERY. innocent applications. It is a fubjeft that is well worthy the attention of the public, and 1 am aftonifhed that it has remained for fifty years un- noticed. But, as it is too extenfive for the prefent occahon, I fhall only copy Mr. Sharp’s obfervation, and leave the reader to his meditations *. When we review the prngrefs of the art of furgery for the laft hundred and fb'ty years, and co hder the general exertions that have been made by Tome of the brighteff ornaments of the profeffion for the purpofe of improving the operation of amputation, it mufl appear fingular that a fubjecl, fo fimple in its principles and fo plain and felf-evident, fhould not long ago have been brought to the fumrnit of perfection. And in this enlightened age I fufpeft it will be looked upon as the height of pre- fumption, if any one fhould vainly attempt to add a fingle improvement to the voluminous labours of their predeceffors ; except it will be con- fidered an additional imDrovement to telieve the ooerator from a num- i her of ufelefs inflrumeats which the modern (yfleins have provided on this occafion. * The moment Parey’s new Method was publifhed, the Qhjedion was darted, not from Offer- vations in Practice, but as they thought the palpable Reafon of the thing : Ai d yet fo little do we underftand the nature of th s Subjeft, that to the Confufton of Theory it has been difcover’d by the Operation f. r the Aneurifm in the Bend of the Arm, that the great Nerve contiguous to the Artery may be tied n t only without fata! Convulficns, but even any notable Inconvenience. It is an Accident Herd'y ever avoided, though indeed it is caution’d agtOd by Surgical Writers : But who- ever is defirons of knowing what Effects it produces, may read the Account of them in the Benon. Injlit. Vo'. II. Part II. Page 65. where we have the Hiftoiies of the Di(fedions of thefe Parts in Patients who had undergone the Operation fume Years before their Deaths, by VaJfu’.va : And the Author of thefe H (lories is fo little intimidated by the danger of tying the Nerve, as to advife Sur- geons not tc einbarrafs themfelves on this Article, but to finifh the Operation with all fuitable Expe- dition, and without any regard to a Precaution of fo little Importance. Sharp’s Critical Enquiry^ page 292 et 293, 5 A When