THE OPERATIVE particularly merit our attention ; and if we confider his opinion to be the fiandard of modern praCice, the coraparifon will enable us to form .a judgment of the (late of furgery at thefe two diflant periods : the anci- ent practice reiling on the authority of Wifeman, who was furgeon to Charles the fecond, and the (late of modern improvements depending on the fanCion of Mr. I. Hunter, who enjoyed fimilar honours under George the third. I have before obferved that Wifeman’s theory and praflice do not co- incide, and that his praftice in many inflances was judicious and well con- duced, but his theoretical opinions have very little claim to our atten- tion. If it was his opinion that amputation would flop the progrefs of a fpreading gangrene, how mull we account for the omiffion in the cafe before mentioned, where * mortification took place in confequence of a gun-fhot wound in the arm ? * A Perfon having been {hot in the arm, and the Wound undigefiied, I being confulted advifed laying open of the Wound, and extroflion of the Bullet, Rags, &c. but was over-ruled by others, and it was deferred to farther confideration. Two days after I vifned the Patient, and afkcd the Chirurgeon whether he had laid open the Wound. He replied, there was no need, for he could turn his finger in it and pull out the Bullet and Rags if it was neceffaiy. As I was going out of the houfe I met the Phyfician, who inquiring of me the Patient’s health, I replied that the Chirurgpon had unwittingly given me the certain fign of his Death. For in magnis vu'neribus & parvis, fi Tuma- res non apparcant, ingens malum.. That was a great Wound, and not being digefted, fhould have been accompanied with Fluxion and Inflammation ; the Lips fhould have been full, the Orifice con- tracted : but on the contrary, the heat was decayed, the Lips weie lank without fenfe, and at that time Sphacelated. A day or two after he died, too certainly juftifying my prognoftick. Wifeman’s Surgery, page 433. It