PART OF SURGERY, 393 with any degree of certainty in fuch cafes *. It would be the height of prcfumption to fay that reduftion was impoffible, or that fome other ad- ditional treatment might not relax the ftritffure. It would be impoffible to fay how far bleeding might be carried in fuch cafes, or whether tobac- co-glyfters had been ufed to their full extent; and the number of inftances, where the operation has been determined upon and reduftion afterwards taken place, too fully proves the truth of this affertion. The mod accomplilhed furgeon that ever attempted to reduce an her- nia may try in vain, if there is not the mod fortunate concurrence of cir- cumdances in his favour. The pofition of the patient and his united efforts are circumdances that cannot always be commanded; and not only the pofition of his body, but the date of his mind, may frequently contri- * I was deflred to vifit a ruptured patient with Mr James, then furgeori to St Luke’s hofpita!. The patient was a {tout healthy man, about thirty ; the rupture was large, hard, painful, and begin- ning to be inflamed on the outfide ; no {tool had paffed for two days ; the man had great pain all over his belly, and a frequent vomiting, Mr James had many times tried to reduce it ; he had bled him freely, and had given both purges and glyfters, but all without effect. The ferotum was exceedingly tenfe, and the pain which attended the molt gentle handling was fo ersquifite, as not only to render all attempts for reduftion by the hand improper, but hazardous. It was about noon when I faw the man : every thing, except the tobacco, had been tried ; the fymptoms were advancing haftily, and the operation was propofed and fubmitted to j but while our things were getting ready, we thought we might as well try the fmoke-glyfter. One ounce of tobacco was expended without any effe& at all, either general or local ; but toward the confumption of another, the patient became flek and faint, and complained of a ftrange kind of motion in his'belly, and aifo in his rupture. Upon turning the bed-clothes back, the motion was not only to be felt within the ferotum, but was even vifible ; this motion continued about two mi- nutes, when the inteftme, without being touched, returned ; the man became immediately eafy ; and in half an hour, had a plentiful difeharge per anum. Pott’* Remarks and Obfervations on Ruptures, page 98.