327 MEDICINAL TREATMENT of difeafe. But notwithftanding all that can be faid in defence of his profelfional abilities, I {hall prefurae to contend that an analylis of the Jirft principles of difeafe and the medicinal treatment were fubje&s with which he was unacquainted. His advocates may reprefent him as the hrft fcholar and philofopher of the age ; they may affert that his language was equal to that of Horace* who was his favourite author *, or that he could fpeak with the perfua- five eloquence of Cicero f ; that his knowledge of animal mechanifm was equal to that of his more fuccefslul countryman and that his invefti- gations of the works of nature were of more importance than thofe of Sir Ifaac Newton Jj. That when the Elementa Medicinae made its ap- * He maintained the independance of his chara&er, proving himfe’f to be, in the language of his favourite Horace,—Satis inter vilia fortis. The life of Brown, by Bcddoes, page liii. t Cicero and Bacon were his favourite authors; in his elaborate compofitions he imitated the Roman orator with affe&ation, The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page xcvi, + It is a fingular coincidence, that the two individuals, who in thefe times have been principally celebrated for their attempts to extend the knowledge of animal nature, fhould have been both na- tives of Scotland, and that each fhould have been put to a coaife mechanical employment—John Brown to the trade of a weaver, and John Hunter (according to common fame and the report of one of his biographers) to that of a carpenter or wheelwright. The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page xxxvi 11. jj The introductory lefttre, if my memory is accurate, was intended to imprefs upon his audience a fenfe of the importance of the lc&urer’s difeoveries; its effefts was rather to render him ridiculous. The dread of pain and death eafriy perfuade us that improvements in medicine are more beneficial than in any othet art; but when a man alferts the fuperior utility of his difeoveries to thofe of New- ton, he will with difficulty avoid the appearance of averting the fuperiority of his talents. The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page uxxvt. pearance