PART OF SURGERY. 345 Thefe few lines of Wifeman contain more ufeful information than half the books that have been fmce written on the fubje6t. He directs that the parts be firft cleared with diligence, but that diligence is to be guarded with caution. If it was my intention to enter into a regular examination of Wifeman’s writings, it might then be neceffary firft to give a biographical illuftration of the genius of the author ; and the different fituations in which he was placed during that eventful period would furnifh us with many amufing fubjefts well worthy of our attention. But there is one circumftance that I cannot let pafs unnoticed, as it is of a profeffional nature, and may on a future occafion be urged againft the authority of his opinion. If our author was fincere in what he has written on the King’s evil, I am ready to acknowledge that it would be a difficult talk to juftify his credulity of the infallibility of the Royal Touch *. But there was no period of time when human nature was exempt from folly; and as the prefent age will * What great difficulty we meet with in the Cure of the King’s Evil, the daily experience both of Phylicians and Chirurgeons doth fhew. 1 thought ic therefore worth my while to fpend a whole Treatife upon the Subjedt, and very particularly to go through the defcription of it, informing thereby the young Chirurgeon whatever is requisite to the Cure, at lead as far as it cometh within the com- pafs of our Art. But when upon trial he fhall find the contumacioufnefs of the Dileafe, which fre- quently deluded his bed care and indudry, he will find reafon of acknowledging the goodnefs of God ; who hath dealt fo bountifully with this Nation, in giving the Kings of it, at lead from Edward the Confedor downwards, (if not for a longer time) an extraordinary power in the miraculous Cure thereof. 7h:s our Chronicles have all along tcdined, and the perfonal experience of many t'noufands now living can witnefs for his Majedy that now reigneth, and his Royal Father and Grandfather. His Majedy that now is having exercifcd that faculty with wonderful fnccefs, not only here, but beyond the Seas, in Flanders, Holland, and France itfelf.” Wifeman’s Surgery, page 239, 4 C2 not