PART OF SURGERY, 405 yen. But Wifeman, his contemporary, limits his views to what he has feen on earth, and with all the fimplicity of nature tells the limple truth, in which he reprefents the mutilated warrior, unawed by fear, infenfible of pain, rulhing from the hands of his furgeon to re- new the conteft.* This then is the time for amputation when the mind is prepared for difficulties and dangers, and the lofs of a limb muft be confidered an ob- ject of inferior importance when life has been at flake. *A Scottijh Soldier was brought to me out of the Field at the Battle of Worcester, (hot with a Mufkefc bullet into the Elbow-joint, which fractured not only the ends of the Radius and Ulna, but likewife that of the Adjutorium. Upon fight whereof I called Will. Clarke (now a Chirurgeon at Bridgenorth) and other my Servants about me, to cut off the Arm, and the while I endeavoured to encourage the Soldier to endure it. In anfwer thereto he only cry’d, Give me Drink, and I will die. They did give him drink, and he made good his promife and died foon after; yet had no other Wound than that. By which may be perceived the Danger in delaying this Work to the next day, when the aforefaid Accidents have kept them watching all night, and totally debilitated their Spirits. Which happens not, if it be done in Heat of fight, for then, while they are furprizcd and as it were amazed with the Accident, the Limb is taken off much eafier : and if it be the Arm, fome of them will (carce be kept in the Hold while the Ship is clofe engaged in Fight. In the heat of Fight I cut off a Man’s Arm, and after he was laid down, the Fight growing hotter, he ran up, and hclpt to tra- verfe a Gun. And a Walloon earneftly begged of me to cut off his fhattered Leg : which whilff I was doing, he cried, Dtpzche vous connous vendrone a terre mous bioron. Alfo others have uiged me to difmember their (hattered Limbs at fuch a time, when the next day they have profeff’d rather to die. Butamongft us aboard in that fervice it was counted a great fhame to the Chirurgeon, if that Ope- ration were left to be done the next day, when Symptoms were upon the Patient, and he fpent with Watchings, &c. Therefore you are to confider well the member, and if you have no probable hope of Sanation, cut it off quickly, while the Soldier is heated and in mettle. But if there be hopes of Cure, proceed rationally to a right and methodical Healing of fuch Wounds; it being more for your Credit to fave one Member, than to cut off many. Wifeman’s Surgery, page