AMPUTATION. 42 On this occafion, for want of fome rational guide, we meet with fimilar difficulties: at leaft I think this part of Mr. Bell’s fyftem is equally im- perfeft; he difapproves of the delay recommended by Mr. Sharpt, and contends that the operation fhould be performed as foon as poffible after the termination of the difeafe. He fays. “I would confider it as fufficient to wait till the mortification is fairly flopped, but not much longer: In this manner, we feem to reap all the advantages which the caution we have advifed can give; and the earlier after this that the mortified parts are removed, the more readily will we prevent the fyftem from fuffering by the abforption of that putrefcent matter which a gangrenous mafs univer- fally yeilds*.” Thus early amputation is certainly Mr. Bell’s leading ob- je£l, but this lafl effort feems no better fupported than the former; his motive is to prevent the abforption of putrefcent matter, but to effedl this it will be neceffary that the whole of the mortified parts fhould be remo- ved ; and if the whole of the mortified parts are to be removed, fome por- tion of the found parts muff, of neceffity be removed with them, fo that to effefl the objedl completely which Mr. Bell has in view, the operation of amputation on the found parts muft be regularly performed. t£( I have laid it down as a Rule, that the Mortification fhould not only be flopp’d, but advanc'd in its reparation; the reafon of which is, that though the Blood is fo much alter’d for the better as to oc- cafion a ftoppage of the Gangrene, yet at this point of alteration ’tis ftill in a bad flate, and fhould be left to mend, with the utmofl tranquility of Body, and afiiflance of Cordial Medicines, ’till fuch time as Granulations of Flefh upon the living part of the Extremity fhew the balfarnic Difpofition of the Blood : In the mean while, to take off the Stench of the Gangrene, it may be wrapt up in fpirituous vr odoriferous Applications.” Sharp’s operations of furgery, page 214. * Bell’s fyftem of furgery, vol. 6, page 316, fifth edition, In