THE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING I29 pofed to depend, it is a fubjeff that may be traced back to the time of Hippocrates*, and is a principle in animal nature that influences the ope- rations both of the body and mind. I (hall not attempt to determine whe- ther Horace had fludied Hippocrates, but as his works are more general- ly read than thofe of the old greek phyfician, I {hall beg leave to add his authority in fupport of the antiquity of this doHrinef. The two cafes of the fmall-pox and meafles are fo particularly analo- gous, that I cannot forego the fatisfadlion of giving a copy of each, that the reader may form his own opinion on the fubjedl ||. This * Aw ttoswh ct/xx yuoyt.evw», (ayi xarx r xvrov rovso'i, o' aQo^portpos a[/.txvpo7 r stipov. Cum duo dolores fimul oborti minime eundem locum occupant, vchementior alterum obfcurat,| Hippocrates A phor. lib. 2. No. 46. f Emovit veterem mire novus ; ut folet, in cor Trajetto lateris miferi, capitifque dolore: Ut lethargicus hie cum fit pugil, et medicum urget. Horatii fat. iii. lib. 2. 1. 28* j| CASE of SMALL-POX and MEASLES, by JOHN HUNTER. “ On thurfday, the fixteenth of May, one thoufand feven hundred and feventy-five, I inocula- ted a gentleman’s child, and it was obferved that I made pretty large pun&ures. On the Sunday following, viz. the nineteenth, he appeared to have received the infe£lion, a fmall inflammation or rednefs appearing round each pui.ft ire, and a fmall tumor. On the twentieth and twenty-firfl the child was feverifh; but 1 declared that it was not the variolous fever, as the inflammation had not at all advanced fmee the nineteenth. On the twenty fecond a connderable eruption appeared, which was evidently the meafles, and the fores on the arms appeared to go back, becoming lefs infla- med. On the twenty-third he was very full of the meafles ; but the punftures on the arms were in the fame ftate as on the preceding day. On the twenty-ninth the inflammation increafed, and there was a little matter formed. On the thirtieth he was feized with fever. The fmall-pox appeared at the regular time, went through its ufual courfe, and terminated favourably.” See treatife on gun-fhot wounds, page 5, Tbs