PART OF SURGERY. 385 The crofs-flitch is now To little ufed, that it ceafes to be an objeft in the practice offargery ; but as it is mentioned by mofl writers, and as the origin of this prafiice has been erroneoufly attributed to Mr. Sharp, the fubjefi may yet be confidered not unworthy of our attention. Mr. Bell fays “it was propofed by the late Mr. Sharp, in his Treatife on this Ope- ration, to draw the teguments near together by flitches or pieces of tape puffed through them, and tied acrofs the flump: But the pain and in- convenience attending this was To great, that it never was generally prac- tised; and Mr. Sharp himfelf at laft defifled from it*.” And Mr. I. Hunter fays “ I think the difference between Mr. Sharp’s crofs-flitch, a iter amputation, as recommended in his Critical Enquiries, and Mr. Ai son’s practice, (hews ftrongly the fuperiority of the flicking plafler (or dry futatef;”) from which it is evident that fome method of this fort is fill I thought neeeffary. Wife main does not mention the dry future, but expreffes himfelf very- much in favour of the crofs-flitch and though he fee ms well acquaint- * Bril’s Syftcm of Surgery, vol. 6. page 332, fifth edition, + 1. Hunter on Gun-fhot Wounds, page 209. t The next tiling is the loofening the Ligature, and bringing the I.ips clofe over the Stump. Then whether you fhould with a crofs Stitch hold them fo, or content yourfelf by Bandage as well as you can, is by fome controverted. They that obj . £t again ft the former fay, i: canfes Pain and Inflamma- tion. So doth Bandage alfo: if it he made too ftreight. Therefore they fhould objeft againfl; that alfo. The mofl; that I have feen without the crofs Stitch have the next drefling been broad Stumps, fome of them with Lips turned outward by the Bandage ; in the lead of them the whole Stump hath been bare : Whereas in thofe in which I have made the crofs Stitch, the Lips have been found clofe to the Bone at the next drefling, covering the great Veflels, and a third part or half of the Stump hath been well digefled, and by the fecond drefling hath been near agglutinated fo far as it lay under that Skin, and without Inflammation happily cured. Whereas the broad Stump is a certain flgn of a long Cure, and commonly the death of the Patient. Wifcman’s Surgery, page 443. &A- ed