I INFLAMMATION AND 43O This law of the animal ceconomy is fo clearly illuftrated by many inge- nious writers long before Mr. John Hunter’s time, and exemplified by daily experience, that it is not neceftary on the prefent occafion to give any additional explanation; the principal obje£I is, whether the inftance before us does or does not apply. If this queftion be confidered in a the- oretical light, it will certainly appear furrounded with many difficulties; but in a practical one, the folution will not be difficult. Let us fuppofe the gout to have quitted the extremities, and an increas- ed adlionofthe fyftem to have taken place, attended with violent pain in fome of the vifcera. I contend that the gout may exill in the extremities to any degree without producing increafed aftion of the fyftem, or a fizy ftatc of the blood ; but no fooner do the vifcera become affe6ted, than the a£lion of the fyftem is immediately increafed, and the blood taken unde* thefe circumftances is marked with fize. The PROGRESS of the SMALL-POX RETARDED by the MEASLES, by Dr. MANGET, PHYSICIAN at GENEVA. (l In the monthof February 1772,1 inoculated a child according to the Suttonian method. Theerup- tion appeared on the feventh day. Altho’ the weather was very cold, the boy remained in general in the open air, as he found it relieved him from the anxiety which accompanied the eruption. After two days of variolous fever, a new eruption appeared perfectly diftinft from the former. This I foon dif- covered to be the mealies. I then advifed he fhould no longer be expo fed to cold air. But from his impatience under confinement this was not complied with. The mealies, however, kept out well; and about the end of the fourth day, terminated by defquamation, without any bad confequence. It was remarkable, in this cafe, that the fuppuration of the fmall-pox, which had begun before the mealies appeared, was totally fufpended, and did not again renew its courfe till they were finilhed. By this means, the continuance of the fmall-pox was prolonged about four days beyond the ufual pe- riod of that difeafe.” See Medical Commentaries, vol, 1, page 317. Now