282 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. Inflammation of the vifcera may a!fo terminate in fuppuration; I remember two cafes of this kind,, in both of which it is probable that the peritonceum was the principal feat of the difeafe. One was the effedts of external injury, the other the natural confequence of internal difeafe. On this occafion it will be neceffary to recoiled! Mr. J. Hunter’s ob- fervations refpedling the formation of matter on fecreting furfaces with- out the lofs of fubflance. I happened to meet with a cafe of empyema foon after the publication of Mr. J. Hunter’s treatife on the venereal dif- eafe, and I am ready to acknowledge that the information I there met with was particularly interefting and fatisfadfory. I cannot fuppofe that a fubjedt of fuch importance can have efcaped the attention of the pro- fefTional reader; but as thefe obfervations may fall into the hands of fome who have not examined Mr. J. Hunter’s works with critical attention, I fhall beg leave to give a full quotation of his opinion *. * Till about the year 1753, it Was generally fuppofed, that the matter from the urethra, in a gonorrhoea, arofe from an ulcer or ulcers in that paffage ; but from obfervation it was then proved that this was not the cafe. It may not be improper to give here a fhorc hiftory of the difcovery that matter may be formed by inflammation without ulceration. In the winter 1749, a child was brought into the room, ufed for difle&ion, in Covent-Garden ; on opening of whofe thorax a large quantity of pus was found loofe in the cavity, with the furface of the Sungs and the pleura furred over with a more folid fubflance flmilar to coagulable lymph. On removing this from thofe furfaces, they were found entire. This appearance being new to Dr. Hunter, he lent to Mr. Samuel Sharp, defiring his attendance; and to him it alfo appeared new. Mr. Sharp, afterwards, in the year 1750, publiflied his Critical Enquiry, in which he introduced this f?.£l “That matter maybe formed without a “breach of fubftance;” not mentioning whence he had derived this notion. It was everaher taught by Dr. Hunter in his lettures. We, however, find wrters adopting it without quoting eithet Mr. Sharp or Dr. Hunter. J. Hunter on the Venereal Difeafe, fee. edit, page 29. It