268 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. lead likely to end in fpeedy death, it may be confidered the mod judifia- ble fubjeft of experimental inquiry. But it will not be necedary to tor- ture the patient with improper remedies for the purpofeof determining the point in quedion; the ignorance or inadvertency of mankind will fur- nifh fufficient evidence, and prevent the unjudifiable necedity of doing what is fuppofed to be wrong, and by that means endangering the life of the patient, for the purpofe of proving what is right. But for fear I fhould be accufed of illiberal 1 ity or want of candour for reflefting on the igno- rance and inadvertency of others, I fhall here beg leave to mention an in- dance of my own. I was one evening called to vidt a patient when I was very much limi- ted for time, and had not an opportunity of making a minute inquiry, or of obtaining an accurate knowledge of the nature of the difeafe; but for the fake of expedition I accepted of the evidence without crofs examina- tion. The difeafe, which was fuppofed to be rheumatic, was fituated in the arm and fhoulder, and was reprefented as a difeafe of long danding. I examined the date of the pulfe, and not meeting with any fymptoms of increafed aftion or driking evidence of conditutional affeftion, I hadily concluded that this difeafe was of the chronic kind, and directed a fcruple of Dover’s powder to be taken at going to bed. The next evening 1 lound fore given, we muft have immediate recourfe, if the diathefis happens to be confiderably violent, which appears from the heat of the body, the pains raging moft in the night t'me, and from a ftrong and hard pulfe. In order to render the fweat univerlal and of fufficient duration, it fhould be exci- ted by Dover’s powder, or laudanum, as before hinted, and kept up for twelve hours in full flow, and then feme hours longer, or till the abatement of the fymptoms, in the form of moifture or free perfpiration, and repeated when the fymptoms return. The reft of the cure muft be entrufted to low diet and an exatt temperature,” Brown's Elements of Medicine, by Beddoes, vol. 2, page 168. my