( 372 the operative fufficient to flop the difcharge of blood. It would not be a matter of aflo- nifhment if this bufinefs was ill condu&ed by uninflru6led hands ; but I am apprehenfive that, in fituations where there is time for deliberation, and under the direction of a profeffional hand, it is the cuflom to apply the tourniquet ten times tighter than neceffary. As a proof of this affertion, let thofe, who attend to the manner of con- ducing this formidable operation under the management of furgeons of the firfl abilities, obferve that, when the perfon who manages the tourniquet flackens the bandage for the purpofe of fhewing the fituation of the arteries, he will relax the inflrument feveral turns before any difcharge of blood will appear; whereas, if it was only fufficiently tight and no more, a fingle turn would be fufficient for the purpofe. 1 do not recolleC that I ever was witnefs to an inflance where the liga- ture was torn in two; but from the manner in which this inflrument is frequently made ufe of, I think it is poffible that accidents of that kind may fometimes take place, and to guard againfl the confequences of fuch misfortunes, we are advifed to have two ligatures*; but one will always be fufficient when this inftrument is properly applied. * When we ufe the common tourniquet and ligature, I think it may not be amifs, from an acci- dent which happened in an operation wherein i was concerned, to affix two ligatures to the cotnpi “fs, one of which to be rolled up and pinned back upon it, to be in readinefs fhould the other happen to break. 1 give this precaution, having been prefent when fuch an alarming circumftance happened in the operation, juft when the crural artery was divided, which threw the operator into fume con- fufion, but I foon made my handkeichief ferve the purpofe of another ligature. This accident which made an irnpreflion upon the minds of the fpeflators to our difadvantage, was owing to the inadver- tence of the perfon employed to manage the tourniquet, in twifting the ligature too much; there- fore, to obviate fuch an inconvenience, particular care is required in tying the ligature, fo that very little more than one turn of the flick may ilraiten it fufficiently. This incident made me more at- tentive than ordinary ever after. Gooch on Surgery, vol. 2, page 333 et 339. When