248 MEDICINAL TREATMENT have alfo feen fevers of the putrid kind run on for a month ; and though I have repeatedly on every little abatement of difeafe tried the bark, ftill it has produced an increafe of fever, in confequence of which the bark has been difcontinued, and the cure has been accomplifhed without it. It frequently happens that epidemic fevers afTume a particular cha- racter, in confequence of which they may be confidered provincial, in which fome local circumftances give a wonderful uniformity of difeafe, and it may fometimes happen on thefe occafions that a uniformity of treatment is admiffible. I have heard of all kinds of fevers being cured by wine, and we fome- times read of inftances of the bark being indiscriminately given to a whole neighbourhood with invariable fuccefs *; and ifinfuch inftances of gene- * “ The angina maligna, or gangrenofa, as Dr. Mead calls it, has been rife in this city, and many parts of the country, but no where fo much as at Kidderminfter, where it.fias been in a manner epi - demica]. Upon its firft appearance in that town, nine or ten poor perfons died of it fucceffively : at laft I was called to the child of one Mr. Wallis, a conftdetable tradelman in that place. He loon recovered by our method ; and, fince that time, very great numbers there have had the diftemper, and icarce any have failed who fought for help before the difeafe had taken too deep root. For in this, if in any cafe, the old rule is to be obferved, Principiis obfta, &c. “Mr. Cooper, an apothecary of that town, a very fenfible and careful man, obferving the method in which the child laft mentioned was treated, applied it afterwards to thofe perfons who confuited him ; and, as he had a principal fhare in the bufinefs ol the town, he had frequent opportunities of experiencing its efficacy. He told me fometime afterwards, that inftead of preparing the medicines in ftnall quantities, according to my prefeription, he had been obliged to make up feveral gallons at a time : fo numerous were the fick, and fo little variation was it neceflaty to make in the compoli- tion of the remedy. Upon a careful examination of his books, it appears, that fince I vifited mafter Wallis, 242 perfons have been his patients for this difeafe, who were all treated in the manner here- after related, and not more than feven died ; of which number he mentions no more than one, who took the medicines regularly, and in good time ; to the others he was not called in till the difeafe had made a confiderable progrefs.” Ulcerated fore throat by Dr. Wall. Medical Mufeum, v. 1, p. 114. ral