315 MEDICINAL TREATMENT and fait; but none of thefe faffs are applicable to the phenomena of animal life. I hope it will not be thought neceffary to produce examples in fupport of every illuflrative obfervation ; but if any objeftions fhould be urged againfl thefe arguments, I would refer the reader to Mackbride’s Experimental Elfays, where he will find a number of experiments on the antifeptic powers of fixed air, that bear a ftrong analogy to fome of the faffs above (fated. There is great reafon to fuppofe that this was the book which Mr. Cart- wright * alluded to in his account of the ufe of yeafl in putrid fevers, * I obferved, fays Mr. Cartwright, in a fmall corner of the room, a tub of wort working. The fight brought to my recolleftion an experiment I had fomewhere met with, ‘ of a piece of putrid meat 4 being made fweet by being fufpended over a tub of wort in the a£l of fermentation.’ The idea flafhcd into my mind, that the yeaft.mighc correft the putrid nature of this difeafe ; and I inflantly gave him two large Ipoonfuls. Gentleman’s Magazine for September 1799, Page 762. EXPERIMENT 16. I plunged into this gallon of fermenting liquor the verv identical piece of mutton that had ferved as a ftandard in the 6th experiment, on the acids; and which, from lying in an open cup for ieveral days, was grown fa loft that I was obliged to tie it round with a piece of thread, (for when the thread was paflbd through it, the flefh was fo tender it would not hold) and fo extremely putrid that the flench was intolerable. In one hour the putrid fmell was much abated, and at the end of Jive entirely gone, the meat being now firm, and perfectly fweet ; it was hung up in the open air, where it foon became dry, and ie» mained lvveet ever after. EXPERl M ENT 17. In ord t r to fee whether this change depended on the liquor, or on the vapour, I fufpended a thin bit of putrid mutton in the mouth of the veffel wherein the wajh was fermenting, but fo as not to touch the liquor, and left it there during the night ; in the morning it was found plumped up, fweet, and firm. Mackbride’s Experimental Elfays, page 132 tt 133. though