HISTORICAL RVIDENCftT l8f ftiore fatisfa&ory, for in the year 1749 when he gave his opinion refpeft- ing the ufe of the bark in mortifications, this confultation feems to have efcaped his recolle&ion; and, as this was only one year previous to the publication of Mr. Sharp’s Critical Enquiry, it certainly fhould have been noticed by his pupil. But on the authority of both Chefelden and Sharp, it appears evident that the bark was at that time ioofing its reputation, and the fubfequent evidence on this fubje£l has already been inveftigated. Thefe obfervations furnilh us with an additional example of the in- accuracy of general opinions; and fhew too clearly how little we fhould depend on the authority of great names, and how neceflary it is for every one to examine evidence, and form a judgment for himfelf. The next infiance that I (hall notice, is a cafe of mortification of the toes and feet by Mr. Gooch; where the bark was given and the patient recovered. What is particularly remarkable on this occafion, is, that this cafe is dated Auguft 24, 1731, which is previous to the above publications, and yet tV><* hark is mentioned as a iv.mtoy tuaujiuui^ uieti in this difeafe, I do not pretend to afiert that this cafe has any particular claim to our at- tention, except it is for the purpofe of fliewing on what humble evidence, the efficacy of the bark in fuch cafes was at firfl efiablifhed; and when we bow, where the ulcerated flump had never been healed, was extremely painful, and a finus was form- ed from the flump under the membrana adipoja up to the head of the os humeri. The ulcers in both thefe cafes were extremely foul, the matter foetid, thin, and corrofive; but upon taking the bark, the matter foon grew perfcflly good, the pain ceafed, the foresgrew clean in a few days, and both the pa- tients were foon after cured. Thefe two cafes were under the dire£tion of Mr. Ranhy. ferjeant fur- geontohis Majefly, to whom we chiefly owe the preient knowledge of its great ufes in furgery, and who intends to oblige the public with a treatife on that Jubje£t,” Be Dran’6 Surgery, with remarks Sic« By William Chefelden, Efcj. page ^68, review