M ED 1C IN A L TR E A T M '£ NT 3'2* pearance in the world, all former fyllems funk into obfcurity, and that his great genious Atone fuperior to all that went before him. But if I was compelled to acknowledge all this as truth, hill I fhould contend that the practice of pbyfic was a fubjefl which exceeded the utmoA limits of his extenfive information. For he had no praftice *, and confequently had no opportunity of obferving the phenomena of difeafes, of noticing their progrefs, of ftudying their nature, or learning the method of cure. He fpeaks of Sydenham with contempt+; one whofe profeffional reputation was eAabiifhed on the accuracy of his praflical obfervations, his Ariel attention to the operation of medicine and the influence and progrefs of difeafe. Whereas the Brunonian fyflem originated in a fit of the gout J, and his materia medica was con- fined to the clafs of diffufible Aimuli j|. * To fome readers it may appear flrange that I fhould have finifhed the life of a phyficiart, who caufed fo great an uproar in the medical world, without more particular notice of his private prac- tice. I enquired with lome folicitude, but in vain, whethei dating the iong period of his ftudies he was peculiarly obfervant of difeafes. The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page c i i i. ■f- Calefacients, or heating things, were one of the means that the alexipharmic phvfic’ans employed to force perfpiration ; but the principle is now laid down, that Ihewsthey produce the oppoiite effedt. Hence the met it of Dr. Sydenham in recommending cold, both in the fmall pox and in peripneu- many, in which difeafe he took his patients out of bed, and placed 'hem in an eafy chair. Happy had if been for the profefli in, and happier for the lick, had he extended his improvement to the meafles and catarrh, and all the reft of the few fthenic difeafes, and flopt there; but by extending his antiphlogiftic and refrigerant doftrine to the whole form of afthenic diieafcs, the haim mid good he did were in the proportion of 97 of the former to 3 of t.re laticr. Brown’s Elements of Medicine by Beddoes, page pg. J Preface to the original work. I II Double Rum and Laudanum. The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page ixxi, If