CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 23O Inflammation is the morbid action that, in this infiance, becomes de- ftrudtive of life: when mortification takes place the vital actions end. But if warm fomentations are thought proper during the progrefs of inflammation, though warm applications may be equally neceflary af- ter mortification has taken place, yet moift applications would be atten- tended with more inconvenience in this inftance than at a more early pe- riod of the difeafe ; and in my opinion a very warm dry flannel would prove a much more convenient application than a moifi one. But whilfl I am prefunding to give direftions on this part of the fubjeft, I would wifh to remind the reader that it is only a matter of opinion, and not a fubjeft that admits of demonftration ; and as it has been already proved that there is no public opinion to appeal to, I think it right to give one, although it may be confidered equally imperfeft. For the queftion certainly pre- fents itfelf with irrefiftible propriety, that if every former method of prac- tice is to be rejefted as erroneous or prejudicial, what mull be fubftituted in its Head? / ✓ If we examine the opinions of ancient writers we fhall find that excef- five heat and not moderate warmth was the grand agency of furgery, hot digeftives with turpentines were applied to the ulcerated parts: Wifeman recommends unguent bafilic. cum ol. terebinth, hot*, as a mild drefling * “ In the drefling of thefe Mortifications, you ought to confider well in the application of your Medicaments, that you do not in the extinguifhing one Gangrene raife another, by the too long ufe of fharp Medicaments. Therefore, when you (hall feel the Ulcer warm, and find it ceafe gleetirg, it may be reafonable to forbear the ufe of them, and to drefs it up with warm Digeftives, as unguent, bafilic, cum ol. terebinth, hot : and after Digeftion deterge with mundif. ex apio magijl. or fuch like, according as the Sloughs require : then proceed by Sarcoticks and Epuloticks, as in fuch Ulcers hath beenfhewed.” Wifeman’s furgery, page 435. Of