289 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. I once 4 B flimulating the abSorbents into aflion ; as its properties are to diminifh animal a61ions and not increafe them. In the hydrothorax, in which the powers of the digitalis are mod certainly efficacious, it is of no impor- tance, in a pratical view, whether the remedy operates by increafing ab- sorption, or diminiffiing Secretion; the obje£t is to remove the accumu- lation of that Serous fluid, which is Secreted by the glands of the pleura. The difficulties of ascertaining the powers of any medicine are fo great, that it betrays the moft irrational prefumption for any one to attempt to exprefs himfelf with confidence on thcfe fubjefls. For which reafon I am ready to acknowledge that it is with confiderable relu6lance I men- tion Some extraordinary circumflances that have occurred to me in rny experiments with the digitalis; and yet I Should think it a criminal omif* (ion to negleft a Single observation, which might in the lead degree tend to throw any additional light on a Subject of Such importance, that is at preSent but imperSeftly underffood ; and if one of the circumflances that has occurred in my praftice had not been already noticed, I Should per- haps have fufpe&ed the accuracy of my own observation *. * I fhall only add, that a remaikable circumftance occurred in a cafe of anafarca, not taken notice of by Dr. Withering or his correfpondents, which is that after I had defifted from the ufc of the Digitalis, in confequence of the fwelling of the abdomen having nearly fubfided, and the medicine apparently producing a naufea, the patient was for fome weeks affli&ed with a conftant difchargc of limpid water from his mouth, amounting on fome days to a great degree of falivation.—My friend Mr. Renny, Surgeon to the Royal Hofpital, obferved the fame oppeardnee of falivation attended with a diminution of fwelling, in an old ma n of a worn out conftitution, who had taken the Digitalis for an hydropic complaint : neither his patient nor mine had taken mercury .for a long time before recourfc was had to Fox-glove. Treatife on the Dropfy of the Brain, &c,&c, by C. W. Quin, M. D* page 97 et 98.