2Jt MEDICINAL TREATMENT. flammation, are Tef at liberty to relume their former fundliorcs. By the firffc method, let the difcharge be ever fo copious, the inflammatory fymptoms will not be in the leall cl [mini filed, but ultimate! y the ufe of opium is cer- tain to produce a i increafe of difeafe; and l am well convinced that in all inflances of infl immation, that are attended with, or likely to be pro- d icfive of, a phlogifttc diathefis, let the difeafe in its origin be ever fo ob- fcure, if opium is given, it will feldoin fail to bring the morbid powers to light. But it is in painffil difeafes of the bowels where it is particularly necef- fary that we fhould be upon our guard; and as it will frequently prove a difficult queffion to diftinguilh between thofe difeafes which are faidtobe fpafmodic, from thofe that are inflammatory, the greatefl caution will be neceffary in the regulation of our pradfice. Dodlor Brown afferts that cholera, the cholic, and iliac paffion are all the fame kind of affedlion, and infmuates that diarrhcea and coflivenefs are only different degrees of the fame difeafe and all to be cured by opium.* With refpedl to the nature of thefe difeafes I fhall appeal to Dodlor Cullen’s praftice of phyfic, and on this occafion it will not be neceffary to make any obfervations on thefe great profeffional charadfers, as it is a fub- jedl with which the public are already well acquainted. * The* colic lias been commonly treated by purging and bleeding, and low diet ; but in no in- stance lias that treatment of it been fuccefsful. Opiates weie particularly forbidden upon the fuppo- fition of tiled conftipating the belly ; but the truth is, that the colic, as well as diarrhoea (which has been fuppofed a difeafe of an oppofttc nature, from the feeming contrariety ol loofenefs of the belly and coflivenefs to each other), are the fame kind ofaff-fclion, only d'ffering in degree. And the co- lic is to be removed by no other means than thofe that remove the fimple loofenef- ; that is by dura- ble and diffafible ftimuiants.” Brown’s Elements of Medicine, vol. 1, page 188 and 189. This