GUN-SHOT WOUNDS* 50/ but for the purpofe of eafing *pain. That fpecies of mortification, in which opium is fuppofed to be fo particularly efficacious, is fometimes ex- tremely painful; but whether it is only under fuch circumflances that o- pium proves a ufeful remedy, it is not neceffary on this occafion to deter- mine. It is fufficient for our prefent purpofe to recollefl, that it was in this particular fpecies of difeafe, and folely for the purpofe of eafing pain, that it was at fir ft adminiflered ; but it is now recommended in every fpe- cies of mortification, and under all circumflances without diflinflion, Mr. I. Hunter obferves that “ Upon many occafions opium will be of lingular fervice, by leffening the aflion; although it does not give real llrengthf;” but the particulars of thefe occafions are not explained. If I might prefume to give my opinion, I fhould have fuppofed that opium and wine would be produflive of fomewhat fimilar effe6l, but Mr. I. Hun- ter was of a contrary opinion; he fays, “cordials and wine upon the prin- ciple on which they have been given are rationally adminiflered; but there are flrong reafons for not recommending them, arifing from the general effefls which they poffefs of increafing aflion, without giving real flrength J.” Thus we find that cordials and wine are improper becaufe they increafe aflion; and bark was fuppofed to be produflive of fimilar effefls: the * “The pain in the foot and ancle was fo great, and fo continual, as totally to deprive the patient of ileep. On this account, and merely to procure fome remiffion, I gave two grainsof opium at night which not having the defired effeft, I repeated it in the morning. Finding, during the following day, fome advantage, I repeated the fame dofe night and morning for three days; at the end of which time the patient became quite eafy, and the appearances on the foot and ancle were vifibly more fa« vourabie,” Pott on the mortification of the toes and feet, page 154. fl. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 9. J I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 8. medicinal