Cookery for ike Poor. 129 which is in the onions will make plenty of gra\'y. Onions are nourishing and wholesome, and constitute a valuable article of food. These pieces of meat will make an excellent pie or pudding. A little piece of beef skirting will help to make gravy. Thus far I have spoken of stews only. Stewing is the most economical mode of cookery which we know. I think it was poor Richard who used to say that he who roasted his meat threw half of it into the fire ; he who boiled it threw half of it in the water ; he who stewed it made the most of it. This is nothing but fact. Stewing is profitable for many reasons. For one thing, it has to be done gently, and therefore a small amount of fuel suffices for it. hlany a clever house-mother has provided a stew for next day’s dinner by preparing it beforehand, leaving a few cinders in the range and letting the food simmer during the night. Coarse, cheap meat can be rendered tender and succulent by long and careful stewing. The process can be carried on, too, in more ways than one. If there is an oven attached to the range, the stewing can be done then in a jar with a closely-fitting lid, or a cover of greased paper. If, unfortunately, there is no oven, this same Jar can be placed on the hob at the side of the fire, or it may be put on the hearth in front of the fire. Or, supposing a poor woman has to go out and leave her cooking operations, she may “ rake ” her fire, put the jar containing the stew in a saucepan, and surround it with boiling water, and it will go on gently simmering all the time she is away. When once working women learn to appreciate the advantages of stewing, half their difficulties will be over. At present, however, they are too fond of the frying-pan to value the stewpan as it deserves. Scouse.—This name is in some places given to a stew made of scraps of meat and bones broken up, which is sold in the market places of various towns at so much per cup. To make scouse take cooked or uncooked scraps of meat, whichever can be obtained, cut them into very small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with the bones chopped, pepper and salt, a good ejuantity of sliced onions, K