How to Cook Fish. 89 baking-tin (of course, if we have chosen to roll the fillets, we must stand the little rolls on end in the tin), lay a sheet of buttered paper over the fish, and bake in a quick oven until a skewer will pierce them to the centre with ease. We drain them on kitchen paper, place them on a dish, pour the sauce over or round them, and serve. They will be done in about six minutes. Is not this an easy way of cooking fish? It is such a good way, too. The fillets look well and taste well; there are no bones, and everything is excellent all round. Of course, a little pains must be taken to dish the fillets neatly. If they have been simply folded over, they sliould be arranged in a circle, with one fillet overlapping the other, and the sauce or cooked vegetables may be put into the centre. If they have been rolled, the rolls may be put on a dish and small heaps of different colours may be put on the top of each by way of garnish. A little hard-boiled yolk of egg, a teaspoonful of green parsley, a slice of pink ham, or a little red chili, all chopped small, will answer the purpose excellently, and if the colours are contrasted prettily, and the sauce is put round neatly, the dish will look quite unique. There is still another way of baking flat fish which renders it so savoury and delicious that I must describe it. Sole cooked in this way is called An gratin xs a phrase usually applied to food which is covered with bread-crumbs and baked till brown. In preparing it we may either keep the fish whole or fillet it as in the last recipe. Take a moderate-sized sole, w'ash and skin it, and dry it in a cloth ; cut off the fins with a sharp knife, and nick the fish in two or three places on both sides. Procure a quarter of a shalot, four small mushrooms, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a slice of bread which has been rubbed through a sieve to make fine crumbs, a little lemon-juice, half a teacupful of strong gravy, and a little pepper and salt. The mushrooms, parsley, and shalot must all be chopped finely, and the bread crumbs must be put on a tin in the oven until lightly browned. Butter a flat baking-tin and sprinkle over it half the chopped mushroom and shalot, and a little pepper and salt, squeeze half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice over; lay the sole upon the