The Girl's Own Cookery Book. 120 but in the night when he wakes up, and finds Black Care sitting by the side of his pillow, and hears her say, “ Now I have you in my power, sleep if you can.” Beef-tea will chase away the demon. Let the victim drink it, and he will be very different from most people, if he does not lay his head on his pillow, and in less than half an hour fall asleep as quietly as when he was a baby, and his head lay on his mother’s breast. In cases of typhoid fever and some other diseases, doctors frequently give orders that raw beef-tea should be administered to the patient. This is made by drawing the juice of the meat out in cold water, as already de- scribed, then straining off at once and serving it uncooked. This must be made in small quantities, as it will not keep. In making broth or beef-tea for sick people, great care should be taken to remove every particle of fat from the liquid, for fat will not only be likely to upset the stomach of the invalid, but it will prove most objectionable to him. If there is time for the tea to go cold, the fat will cake on the surface, and can be easily taken off. If, however, the tea is wanted at once, a sheet of clean blotting-paper should be passed lightly over the top of the liquid. The fat, being the lightest, will rise to the surface, and will be taken up first by the paper. The fat will rise more quickly if the jar containing the hot tea is set in a bowl of cold water. Care, too, must be taken about seasoning the broth or tea. People who like highly-seasoned food in a general way, frequently object to it strongly when they are ill. It is wise, therefore, to season beef-tea or broth very slightly, and to place pepper and salt on the tray, and let the invalid season his food for himself, if able to do so. We must not think that we have done everything that is wanted when we have made the tea or broth, seasoned it lightly, and removed the fat. A very great point in catering for sick folk is to make food look inviting. Every article used should of course be perfectly clean and bright, the tray should be covered with a spotless napkin, and if we can put on it a glass containing a few flowers as well as the food, all the better. Also we must remember not to take over much food up at one time, for this will be likely to set the invalid against it altogether.