Cookery for the Poor. 125 amongst the poor wlio cook very well, and who are willing to prepare good food for their families. All honour to these virtuous ones ! They have no place in storied page, but they are doing their life’s work nobly, and they will have their reward in seeing their children grow up healthy, and in knowing that their husbands are steady and respectable. Perhaps you say cookery is all very well, but it is not everj-thing. A woman may be a good cook, and yet keep a miserable home. That is true, and such cases occur, but they are not common. The likelihood is, that if a woman is clever and energetic enough to provide wholesome, well-cooked food on very small means, she can, and does, do a great deal more. I should quite ex- pect that such a woman’s home would be clean and well- kept, her children would be tidily if poorly dressed, and her husband w'ould go about with his head in the air, feeling conscious that there never was such a clever manager as his “missus.” These clever women are, unfortunately, rarely met with. The majority of poor women know little about cookery, and care less. Moreover, they will not be taught. You can scarcely offend the ordinary working woman more than by hinting that the red herring which she gives to her baby is not exactly all that a baby requires. You may speak to these women on religious subjects and they will listen quietly, very likely regarding the sermon as a pre- lude to the alms which is to follow ; but talk to them about getting dinner ready, or keeping the house clean, and you have the fat in the fire in no time. Even where working women can be persuaded to learn cookery, it is not much use to tell them about foods to which they are not accustomed. Lentils, haricot beans, and macaroni are nourishing and cheap foods, but they are very little used by the working classes. Even oatmeal is not valued as it deserves to be. There has been a great deal said of late years about the value of lentils, and they are much more used than they once were, but it is not the very poor who use them. It is the middle class who are, as a rule, willing to receive new ideas, and who are anxious to learn all they can about domestic management. If we go into the poor districts, and notice the food which is offered for sale (for that is the food which is eaten), we