104 Girl's Own Cookery Book. bers of our class to try the various combinations which are suggested for themselves, and if possible to invent one or two on their own account. When we come to the chapter in which we talk of making jelly, you will find that we come to the con- clusion that an ounce of good gelatine would be needed to set a pint and a half of liquid, exclusive of the wine and brandy ; that is to say, an ounce of good gelatine is considered sufficient for about a pint and three-quarters of liquid. In making creams, however, we have to remember that the materials used have a little more consistency than those generally employed in making jelly, and therefore rather less gelatine is needed. Consequently, we may calculate on being able to make a quart of cream with an ounce of gelatine, and occasionally a still smaller portion of stiffening is neces- sary. Of course the gelatine must be soaked for an hour, or longer if possible, in as much milk as will barely cover it. When it has absorbed all the liquid, and has swelled considerably, it should be turned into a small stewpan, and stirred over the fire until it has entirely dissolved. It must then be allowed to cool before it is mixed with the other ingredients. In very rich creams, cream only, pleasantly flavoured, is used. Thus made, however, cream is e.xpensive, and some people would consider it a little sickly. It is very usual, therefore, to use half cream and half milk, and to enrich the milk by making a custard of it with eggs. To make the custard we beat in a basin the yolks of three and the white of one egg. Well strain these, and mix them with half a pint of milk. We pour the mixture into a jug, set this in a saucepan of hot water over the fire, and stir the contents of the jug until the custard is thick enough to coat the spoon, when we take it up. We must be careful not to boil our custard too long, or it will curdle. What is wanted is that it should be thick, as thick as the double cream, but perfectly smooth. Before the cream is added to the custard it should be well whipped, by which means it will not only be made lighter, but it will expand and occupy more room. Here I must say a word about the method of whipping cream.