So The Girl's Own Cookery Book. Jerusalem artichokes, and onions—should be put into boiling water, and the lid should be left on the pan. Old artichokes should, however, be put into cold water. Onions may be rendered milder and more digestible by soaking them for half-an-hour in boiling water (in which a tiny piece of soda is sometimes dissolved) before cooking. All vegetables after being cooked may be saute, that is, tossed over the fire in a little butter before being sent to table. They will be improved by the process. SautS potatoes are lightly browned in the butter. Cauliflowers, broad beans, vegetable marrows, and similar vegetables are excellently served with sauce Blanche. This sauce is made as follows :— Melt an ounce of butter, and stir into it three-quarters of an ounce of flour. Mix with a wooden spoon to form a smooth paste. The sauce will not oil if the flour and butter are well cooked. Stir in half-a-pint of cold water and boil, then mix in well, off the fire, the yolk of one egg. Three or four drops of lemon-juice may be added at the last moment or not. Vegetables plainly boiled are generally eaten with meat, but vegetables form a delicious dish when eaten alone after the meat. French people have vegetables served by themselves constantly, and it would be a great im- provement if English people would imitate their example in this respect. Asparagus, globe artichokes, green peas, French beans, cauliflowers, and tomatoes, may all be prepared to form most agreeable dishes, which would be sure to be appreciated if people would only try them. Asparagus, cauliflower, and globe artichokes, served alone, may be boiled in the usual way, accompanied either by oiled butter, melted butter (to which a little cream and a few drops of lemon-juice have been added), or Dutch sauce. These sauces are made as follows ;— Oiled butter.—Melt a little fresh butter without brown- ing it. Skim it well, let it stand a minute or two, then pour it away from the curd, which will settle to the bottom. Add a pinch of salt, and serve the clear oily part only. Melted butter.—Melt an ounce of butter and mix half-an-ounce of flour smoothly with it. Add half-a- pint of cold water, and stir the sauce till it boils. Dutch sauce.—Real Dutch sauce is thickened with yolk of egg