114 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. used instead of sweet ones. For a quart of stock we should need a small piece of clean leek, a turnip, a carrot, a shalot, a clove of garlic, a piece of celery, a blade of mace, either the juice of two lemons and one tablespoon- ful of vinegar, or vice versd (the first is the best), and a little salt. Clear the jelly in the usual way with the white and crushed shells of two eggs. The yolk may be added if liked. It makes the jelly darker. If they can be had, a few leaves of fresh tarragon and chervil may be dropped in to set with the jelly, and they will make it look very pretty. It is a good plan to boil the vegetables in water to extract their flavour, to make the jelly of the savoury liquid, and to introduce the other ingredients when clear- ing the stock. Garlic, mace, tarragon, etc., are exceed- ingly strong, and if not careful we may get more of their taste than is agreeable. I told you how creams, blanc-manges, and preparations of that kind were made at our last lesson. Before closing now, however, I am strongly tempted to describe a very easy, inexpensive way of making jelly for every-day use which is exceedingly convenient for people who have not time to give to the more lengthy process, and who still like to have a dish of jelly occasionally to set off the table. I am quite aware that this is by no means an orthodox method, but the jelly made from it tastes well, and may serve a purpose. Procure one ounce and a half of Nelson’s gelatine, apacket of Nelson’s citric acid for jelly, and a pennyworth of saffron. Soak the gelatine in half a pint of cold water for three hours. Place it in a basin with as much lump sugar as will sweeten it pleasantly. It is not possible to say how much sugar should be used, because people’s ideas differ so much about sweetness. Usually we allow a heaped tablespoonful of sugar for each lemon used ; therfore, the cook may try three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and thentaste it to ascertain if it is sweet enough. Pour on on pint and a quarter of boiling water, and stir till dissolved Soak the saffron beforehand in very little water, and add as much as will colour the jelly deeply. Add a wineglassful and a half of sherry to make up a quart of liquid. Stir in a little of the citric acid till the jelly tastes agreeably. As this is put in the jelly will become clear. Mould when almost cold.