88 The GirVs Own Cookery Book. A very excellent and pretty-looking dish may be made by filleting flat fish and baking it. I daresay you know that to fillet fish is to take the flesh from the bones in fillets. The fishmonger will undertake this business if asked to do so, but it is much better done at home, because there is no waste. The fish must first be cleaned and skinned ; the head, tail and fins must be cut off. A deep cut must then be made down the centre of the fish, along the backbone, and the knife slipped in un- derneath and drawn under the flesh to separate it from the bone all the way down. When half the flesh is thus lifted, the fish should be turned round and the other half treated in the same way, and when one side is filleted the fish should be turned over, wlien the other side can be operated upon. In this way we shall have four fillets from each fish. At first, it will be found a little difficult to get the flesh quite clean from the bones, but persevere ; skill will come with practice. We will suppose that we have successfully filleted a pair of moderate-sized soles, and consequently that we have eight long fillets and a quantity of bones, etc., at our disposal. How shall we proceed 1 First, we take the bones and trimmings and put them into a saucepan, and let them stew down gently to make fish stock. There is a good deal of nourishment in these trimmings, and, of course, as our object is to supply nourishment we cannot afford to throw any away. Therefore, we simmer the stock for a while, and then strain off the liquor, and use it instead of water when we come to make the sauce for our fish. 1 cannot speak of the sauce now, although 1 hope that shortly we may have a lesson on sauces ; but I may say in passing that all fish sauces should, when it is possible, be made of fish stock instead of water. _As for the fillets, we first smooth them on both sides with the flat blade of a knife, and then either roll them like a rolypoly pudding, or else fold them loosely over. In either case we must remember to keep the side of the fillet which was nearest the bone to the outside, otherwise they will not keep their shape. We sprinkle a little salt on each fillet, and squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over them to keep them white; lay them in a well-greased