Fuddings. 39 As to eggs, their condition >s perhaps more important than that of any thing that can be used. One bad egg introduced into a pudding would spoil the effect of a dozen new laid ones. However an.xious a girl might be to mix a pudding quickly, I would advise her never to allow herself to break a number of eggs into a basin without first trying them separately in a cup. She may have bought them at the best shop in the town, and paid the highest price for them, but there is an element of un- certainty about eggs that no good cook can afford to disregard. There is one thing connected with eggs that always astonishes me very much, and that is, how few cooks trouble to remove the “speck.” or thick knotted substance that lies by the side of the yolk. When the egg is turned into a cup, the speck can be taken out easily with the point of a fork, and it is very unpleasant to come into contact with it while eating. We are often told that, “ in delicate cookery,” the specks should be removed from eggs. They should be removed in all cookery, for they never improve a dish, and they are always objectionable. When there is time for it the whites and the yolks of eggs should be beaten separately, the yolks put in first and the whisked whites dashed in at the last moment before cooking the pudding. The reason of this is that white of egg can be so easily whisked into a foam, and if this can be introduced into the pudding before it has time to fall, the little air bubbles that were beaten in it, and that made the white of egg rise, will expand still further with the heat, and will lift up the pudding in the same way that they lifted up the white of egg, and so make it light. When suet is used in making puddings it should have all the skin and fibre taken away, and be chopped till it is as fine as oatmeal. If we have a chopping-board this can be soon done, but if not it is rather a troublesome busi- ness ; nevertheless it must be well chopped, for we should never be willing that our puddings should have large lumps of fat in them. If a knife must be used in chopping suet, it should be a very sharp one ; and we shall find that the best plan we can adopt is to shred the suet finely first, then turn the pieces round and chop them with