Sauces, and How to Make Them. loi and two tablespoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce ; strain and serve. If the vegetables are allowed to “ sweat ” in butter —that is, fry gently without discolouring—they will yield their flavour better. The flavour of this brown sauce may be varied in ac- cordance with not only the taste of the maker, but the contents of the store-closet, care being taken always to make it suited to the meat it is to accompany. Thus, a little celery may be substituted for the mushrooms, and a slice of turnip may be added, or lemon-peel, parsley, or a bunch of sweet herbs may be introduced. A slice of lean ham is a valuable flavouring ingredient. Some cooks think that good brown sauce cannot be made without ham ; and there is a story told of a cook who, having to prepare a little supper for a prince, ordered fifty hams, only one of which was to go to table,—the rest were to be used in making sauces. Chopped pickle or chopped oysters will also give piquancy to a sauce. Essence of anchovy, too, is a valuable flavourer. A very small quantity, not enough to suggest its own taste, may be put into other than fish sauces, because anchovy possesses the property of bring- ing out other flavours. Wine and made sauces, such as Harvey, ketchup, or Worcester sauce, are also frequently added ; but these should be introduced very judiciously, because a really good sauce should taste of something else than ketchup. Sometimes the sauce looks very well, but it is not sufficiently brown. Drab brown sauce should never be sent to table : it is enough to spoil anyone’s appetite. There are various ways of supplying colour to brown sauce. Roux, or a mixture of flour and butter browned together over the fire, is employed, as are also burnt onions, browning, and even burnt sugar. To my mind the most convenient preparation which can be pro- cured is the “ Pastilles Carpentier.” It is sold in tins, to be bought of any grocer, and will keep any length of time. A tin costing fivepence will supply colour for a great many dishes. It will be understood, therefore, that what is called Espagnol (Spanish), or brown sauce is merely good stock well-flavoured with vegetables, and made thick and brown. White sauce is another celebrated French sauce; in- deed brown sauce and white sauce, or, in other words,