70 21ie GirVs Own Cookery Book. and turnip finely shred and boiled separately are a great addition to this soup. A tablespoonful of crushed tapioca may be simmered in it till clear, to make a change, or it may be thickened with arrowroot. Perhaps girls feel in- clined to say, “ What a small quantity you have made ; there will not be enough ! ” Quite enough for a small family—that is, for four or five people. One reason why English people do not like soup is, that when they make it at all, they make it in such large quantities that they get tired of it before it is finished. They have an idea that if they make soup at all they must make a gallon. A gallon of soup ! why, it would be enough for twenty people. If four persons were compelled to drink it day after day until it was finished, they would ever afterwards say they did not like soup. Let me advise girls to make a quart of soup to begin with, and if it is liked they can make a quart of another kind another day. Fresh herbs are excellent for flavouring soup ; tarragon leaves especially impart a delicious and quite unique flavour, although it is with tarragon as with celery-seed —a very little goes a long way. Shalots and leeks are always to be preferred to onions when they can be ob- tained ; they are more delicate in flavour. A ham bone is a perfect treasure for flavouring, but if we use it we must clarify the soup with a little lean meat or a tea- spoonful of white of egg. Mushroom ketchup and pre- pared sauces, too, are valuable helps for flavouring soups when used very sparingly, but a soup ought not to taste of mushroom ketchup above everything. There is still another way of making clear soup, and that is by boiling broth to a glaze, adding water, and simmering gently. I fear, however, that space will not allow me to describe this now, besides which it is a little difficult for amateurs. I must, therefore, advise girls to try the plans we have been speaking of. In our next lesson we will try to make thick soups and purdes.