Souffles. 47 (In making souffles we must always have more whites than yolks of eggs.) If we have an egg whisk we can soon make the eggs firm; but if not we should put the whites on a plate, and beat them with a clean, broad- bladed knife that has been dipped in cold water and wiped dry. Also we shall find that the eggs will froth much more quickly if beaten in a draught. When they are quite firm stir them lightly into the mi.Kture, and pour it into the tin already prepared. Have ready a saucepan with boiling water that will come half way up the mould, and that will not reach the paper tied round the tin. Lay a piece of buttered paper on the top of the pudding. Put on the lid and steam the pudding till done. When it is firm in the middle if touched with the finger it is sufficiently cooked. There is, however, still one more point to be attended to, and that is, the souffld must be gently steamed. If the water is allowed to boil fast round it, it will be spoiled. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes. While the pudding is being steamed we may make the sauce. Put a quarter of a pint of cold water in a sauce- j)an, and add one ounce of loaf sugar and a tablespoonful of jam ; boil together till the sauce is reduced to half the quantity, and add four or five drops of lemon juice. When the souffld is turned into a dish, strain the sauce round it, being careful not to touch the sides, and it is ready to serve. If we think over the cost of the ingredients of which this pudding is composed, we shall find that it costs eightpence. A quarter of a pint of milk, one penny ; (our eggs, fourpence ; butter for greasing the paper and the tin, twopence ; flour, flavouring, and sugar, one penny. The sauce will cost twopence-halfpenny ; that is, if we allow twopence for the jam, a halfpenny for the sugar, and make ourselves a present of the four drops of lemon juice. I do not think any one will say that, considering this is a superior pudding, it is an expensive one. By following the above directions soufflds may be made of all kinds of farinaceous substances, such as arrowroot, ground rice, or tapioca, also of sponge biscuits and choco- late. The flavouring also may be varied to suit the taste. Some people like a souffld flavoured with strong coflee.