58 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. fingers outside it, and with the help of the left hand we work the shape round and round till we have a firm thin wall to the pie with a solid foundation. We shall find that the walls will show a tendency to grow wider than the bottom, and incline outwards. This cannot be al- lowed, they must incline mivardsj and so if they get wide they must be doubled over and then pressed smooth, just as children double over part of a seam when they are in danger of “puckering” it. When we acquire skill in our work there wilt be no fear of our thus “ puckering ” our pork pie, and so we shall not need to fold it over ; but while we are learners we must do our best, and leave the rest. Another mistake into which we shall be likely to fall will be that of making our walls or sides thinner in some places than in others. This also must not be allowed. When the pie is filled and is in the oven, these thin places will, if left, burst through, and the pie will be spoilt. Care must be taken, therefore, to make the walls of an even thickness all round ; and if any portion should inadvert- ently become thin and weak, we must either double it over and make it thick again, as in the former case, or lay a little patch of pastry inside it to strengthen it. Girls will see now how necessary it is to be quick in this business. The paste is soft when we begin to work upon it, but every minute it is getting harder. If it were to get quite hard we should have to put it on a plate over hot water to soften it again, and then it would not be so good as v/hen freshly made. When the pie is shaped we fill it to within half an inch of the top with the pieces of meat, first dipping each one into cold water and afterwards rolling it in the seasoning which was mixed ready for us a little while ago on the ■ plate. We then roll out the piece of paste which was set apart for the cover to the proper shape and size, and lay it over the meat; egg the edges, and press them securely together, and make a hole in the centre of the pie through which the gravy can be poured when the pie is baked. All that now remains to be done is to ornament our work, brush it all over with beaten egg, and bake it in a mode- rate oven, then pour the gravy into it. The ornamentation must be left to taste. The pie will look very pretty if