127 Cookery for the Poor. per pound. A stew made of two pounds of check and one heel will furnish two or three nourishing dinners for a small family. Wash the ox-cheek thoroughly, dry it in a cloth, cut it into inch squares, mix a tablespoon ful of flour, a teaspoonful of pepper, and the same of salt, and roll the squares in the mixture. Cut the cow-heel also into pieces, and keep them separate. Slice two onions in rings. Melt a good slice of dripping in a saucepan, put in the pieces of floured beef, and fry them a good brown, being careful that they do not stick to the pan. Take up the beef, and fry the onion rings in the same fat ; on no account allow them to brown. Add three carrots cut up into slices, and a halfpennyworth of mixed herbs ; pour on two pints and a half of cold %vater, cover the saucepan closely, let it boil, draw it to the side of the fire and simmer it gently, skimming it occasionally for at least three hours. Taste it, and if necessary, add a little more salt and pepper, pour it into a tureen, and it is ready to serve. 'The bones of the heel may be stewed again for soup. Cow-heel with Parsley Sauce.—Wash the heel well, cut it into small pieces, then put it in a saucepan with as much cold water as will cover it. Let it stew very gently till the bones can' be drawn out, which will be in about four hours. Put the meat on a dish, season with pepper and salt, pour a little parsley sauce or onion sauce over, and it is ready, and will be found excellent. If liked, and where there are children in the family, the heel can be stewed in a quart of milk instead of cold water to cover. This milk, when poured off, may be sweetened and flavoured, and will make jelly ; and the pieces of meat may still be ser\'ed, with sauce over them, for dinner. If milk is used, the jar should be greased before the meat is put in. Pi^s Pry, or Poor Man's Goose.—Procure a perfectly fresh pig’s fry. This will cost about sixpence per pound, and one pound will make a good dinner for four or five people. Wash the fry well, and cut it into small pieces. Brush and wash three pounds of potatoes, and parboil them—that is, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, and let the water boil. Take the potatoes up, skim them, and cut them into slices. Peel an onion, and mix it with three sage leaves which have been finely