Gravy for j'oinls. tliese, economical cookery is Suppose that gravy is wanted to-day for a joint of beef. Sometning was cooked for dinner yesterday, and it is almost certain that a bone or scraps of some kind were left from it. If the cook had forethought she would have put these on one side, cover them over to keep them dean and when there was a convenient opportunity that IS wdien the hre «as not in use, she would stew them for gravy. Perhaps bacon was served for breakfast or he* provided, in either case she would be particularly fortunate ; of course she would have pre- served the meat liquor, pouring it into a clean earthenware pan, and throwing a little muslin over it to keep it from _ She would first take a small onion, skin it and cut it into rings. She would melt a little drippin- in a sauce- pan, th^row in the onion and shake it over The fire until t was brown but not at all burnt. She would now put in the bones and scraps, together with a sprig of parsley an inch or two of celery, three or four peppeTcorns? and the rind of the bacon which had been scalded in boilin^ water and scraped with a blunt knife to make it quk? all she would pour meat liquor or cold water HnSr ^^'■^^‘e'-'als ; then, covering the saucepan placing it by the side of the fire, she wonkf let stew very gently indeed, skimming it every now and then with an iron spoon for a couple of hours t il the liquor was considerably reduced, and was strone a d pleasantly flavoured. 'Ihcn she might strain it off and put ,t on one side to let any fat there might be rLe to he surface, when it could be easily removed If tl e light-coloured, a few drops of sugar browninir ^ be stirred in, but it is probable that the browned colourin'o- -^and supplied all that is required in the way of Sid n A browning should be very sparingly used. Only let the gravy be a rich, deep brown Jn cookery the appearance of a dish is almost as imoortint as Its taste, and light-coloured gravy for join s 5 S. pleasing to the eye ^ joints is not If two tablespoonfuls of the gravy thus made were put