The Girl's Own Cookery Book. 82 Parmesan cheese. Lay the sauce over the cauliflower with a spoon, make it smooth, and sprinkle another ounce of cheese over the top. Brown before the fire, and serve hot. The remains of dressed cauliflower can be used for this dish. People who like tomatoes are sure to enjoy them stuffed. To prepare these, make a little savoury force- meat with whatever materials may be at hand, and flavour it, if possible, with mushrooms and lightly with shalot. Take a thin slice from the stalk end of some ripe but firm tomatoes, which should be of moderate and equal size, and scoop out from the centre the seeds and the watery part. Put in the forcemeat, and sprinkle brown raspings over the top. Place the tomatoes side by side in a deep dish which has a cover, and into which oil has been poured to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Place the cover over the tomatoes, and bake them in a sharp oven till they are cooked through. They should be basted every now and then. They will take about twenty minutes or more, according to their size and ripeness. They should be quickly cooked, however, and the force- meat with which they are filled should be cooked before it is used. If more convenient the stuffed tomatoes may be simply baked. A little brown sauce may be served with them. Tiiere are one or two fancy ways of frying potatoes which are always appreciated. I should like to speak of these before closing. First, fried potatoes. Take some large kidney potatoes, cut them into plugs about two inches long and half-an-inch thick ; wash them and let them lie in water till wanted, and before cooking them drain them in a clean napkin to absorb the moisture. Have ready an iron stewpan half full of boiling fat. Put the potatoes into the frying basket, plunge these into the fat, draw the pan back a little, shake the basket now and again, and let the potatoes remain for about five minutes. By this time the lat will have gone off the boil. Take the potatoes out of the fat, therefore, and heat the fat again. When it boils once more put the potatoes in again, let them remain a minute or two and they are done. They should be salted, drained on kitchen paper, and served at once.