Puddings. 41 the bitter white part of the fruit untouched. When this method is not convenient the thin yellow rind may be cut into thin strips for use. When flavouring essences are used they should be dropped into a small portion of liquid before being added to the pudding. It is not safe to drop them at once into the pudding mi.xture because a larger portion might inadvertently be put in than is wanted, and this would quite spoil the taste of the pudding. A very small pinch of salt, sufficient to bring out other flavours, though not to proclaim its own presence, should be put into all puddings, even sweet ones. When bread crumbs are wanted for puddings, they should be made by rubbing stale bread through a wire sieve. Sometimes it is considered desirable, for econo- mical reasons, to use stale crusts of bread. When this is the case the bread should be scalded with boiling milk or water, and afterwards drained thoroughly and beaten up with a fork. Sugar should always be sparingly used in making pud- dings, especially boiled ones. The reason for this is, that the sugar becomes liquid when cooked, and this may make the mixture too thin. Puddings are either baked, boiled, or steamed. The dish or mould in which a pudding is baked, should always be buttered well before the mixture is put in it. The heat of the oven required for baking puddings is not always the same. Custard puddings of all kinds, whether made of eggs and milk only, or of eggs and milk mi.xed with grain, whole or ground, should be gently baked or boiled ; if put into a fierce oven, they would be watery. Batter puddings, on the contrary, should be put into a well heated, though not fierce oven ; if cooked slowly they will not be light. They should also be served as soon as possible after they arc taken from the oven. All puddings are done when they arc quite firm in the centre. Puddings that are sufficiently solid to admit of it should not be served in the dish in which they are baked, but should be turned upon a dish and have white sugar sifted thickly over them. And if it should happen that they set and acquire colour before they are baked through, a sheet of paper may be laid over them to prevent their being over done. Boiled puddings may