152 The GirPs Own Cookery Book. be used for “scalloping” cold meat, poultry, or fish generally. For this the same recipe can be followed, minced meat being substituted for minced scalloped flesh in the preparation. Poultry or Game, after having been served for dinner, may furnish a very excellent breakfast relish by devilling the legs of the birds for breakfast. Where it is convenient the legs of the birds should be left untouched for this purpose. Occasionally people are met with who like the “ dark meat ” of poultry, but the taste is not usual, and well-devilled drum-sticks are a delicacy which the most fastidious epicure would not despise. Prepare the drum- sticks over night, as they should lie in the hot mixture for some hours before they are broiled. Take the skin off the legs and score the flesh deeply on both sides of the bone. Mix on a plate a spoonful of mustard, a little cayenne pepper, a small spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a large spoonful either of salad oil or dissolved butter; a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce may be added if liked. When quite smooth, cover the legs with this mixture, and get it well in between the scorings. Keep turning them over on the plate, place a cover over them to keep them from getting dry, and leave them in a cool place till morning. A quarter of an hour before they are wanted, lay them on a gridiron, which has been well greased, over a slow fire, and turn them frequently till they are hot throughout and brown without being at all burnt. Some- t'-nes thick slices of undercooked meat are devilled in this way. Radishes and Watercress are deservedly popular as breakfast relishes, yet not many people think of having tomato salad Nevertheless, there are few dishes which are more enjoyable. Tomatoes, especially, are most delicious. I confess that 1 think the taste for them is an acquired one, yet those whw'are fond of them like them very much indeed. Tomatoes are much more used now than they were even two or three years ago; they can be bought fresh for a penny or twopence each during seven months out of the twelve, they are very wholesome and rctreshing, and 1 have been told that they act beneficially on the liver. Moreover, their bright colour