Roasting. 11 a leg of mutton can be hung for three weeks with advantage. In hot, and particularly in what is called “ muggy" weather, it will not keep for as many days. In buying meat, therefore, the state of the weather should first be considered. If it is favourable, inquiry should be made when the joint is bought, as to the time which has elapsed since the animal was killed. If it is freshly killed, do not be persuaded to roast it at'once. Hang it—not lay it in a dish—in a cool, airy larder, and examine it every day. Do this with particular care if the weather should change. If it should get to look at all moist in any part, cook it at once. Good beef, however, does not become moist with keeping. A good many cooks will flour a leg or a shoulder of mutton all over to prevent its becoming moist, and this is a very good plan. One thing I must not forget to say, and that is that a joint must not be allowed to freeze ; if it does it will be sure to be spoilt. When there is a frost, it is advisable to put meat that is to be roasted in the warm kitchen for awhile, in order to soften it, before putting it down to the fire. Houses are built in such a way now that it is not every one who has a “ cool, airy larder” in which they can keep meat. When this is the case, there is nothing for it but to trust to the butcher. If you ask him to supply you with well-hung beef or mutton, he will doubtless do so, or will hang the meat for you. If meat is to be roasted before an open range, the fire must be looked after fully an hour before the meat is put down. It would be of no use to hang meat before a fire that has just been made up. It would only get a smoky, unpleasant taste, and the juice would be drawn out of it, instead of being kept in the meat as it ought to be. A good cook is very particular about her fire. She first pokes it well underneath, to clear it tho- roughly from the dust and small cinders which will have settled at the bottom, pushing the live coals to the uont of the range. She then puts fresh coal on the fire, choos- ing for her purpose not large blocks of coal, but what are called “nubbly” pieces. She does not throw these on from the scuttle, but arranges them with her fingers, protected by an old glove, so that they shall be packed closely, yet leaving room for a draught of air to pass be-