140 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. of tea, pour boiling water on, and draw it off immediately. It is to be presumed that they can procure it more easily than we, and so do not need to study economy. It is, however, a mistake to suppose that all tea should alike brew for ten minutes before the pot is filled with water. Tea of fine quality may stand for ten minutes or longer with advantage, but coarse common tea should not stand more than five minutes, or the infusion will be bitter instead of being fragrant. The longer the tea brews the more theine is extracted from it ; and theine is the injurious part of tea. It is said that tea which has been long brewed is more likely to induce sleeplessness than is tea which has not long been made. Everyone knows that “unless the kettle boiling be, filling the teapot spoils the tea.” Not everyone knows, however, that if tea is to be enjoyed in perfection it is necessary that the water should be freshly boiled. Water which has been in the kettle all the afternoon is quite unfit for making tea, and if such water be employed the lively aromatic flavour of the most superior tea will be destroyed. Tea tasters are most particular to use only water which has been newly boiled. Many people have a prejudice in favour of putting a little carbonate of soda into the pot to help the tea to draw. If the water is exceedingly hard this is allowable, but otherwise the practice is not at all permissible. Soda makes tea black and bitter, but it quite destroys fragrance and flavour. If blackness, irrespective of flavour, is wanted, why not buy Saryune Congou at once, and you can have it at a cheap rate ? There is no occasion to spoil good tea in order to obtain it. If in pouring out tea it is found that additional tea will be needed, by no means put fresh leaves upon the old ones, but either empty the old leaves out entirely and make fresh tea altogether, or brew a little tea separately in a teacup, and turn this into the pot when the leaves have yielded their strength. The lukewarm water in the teapot will not draw the goodness out of the fresh tea, and unless made separately, the latter will be wasted. The presiding genius of the tea-table should also remember that so long as additional water is likely to be required, the tea should never be quite drained from the leaves.