Hmv to Make yelly. Ill briskly over the fire till the jelly boils up to the lop. We draw the pan back, put on the lid half-way, and without touching the crust which will have formed on the surface, we let the jelly stand for twenty minutes. By that time it may be run through the strainer. A wineglassful of sherry and half a wineglassful of brandy may be added after the jelly has run through. Their value would be lost if they were to be boiled with the other ingredients. Now we will suppose that we wish to make the same kind of jelly with gelatine. And first we must remember that it needs a little judgment to determine how much gelatine will be required for a given quantity of jelly. For one thing, the weather has to be considered, a smaller proportion of stiffening being needed in cold than in hot weather. The size of the moulds, too, has to be taken into consideration, for jelly will set more easily in small moulds than in large ones. The quality of the gelatine, too, is a point to be thought of, although the gelatine of respectable dealers may be relied upon with tolerable security. It is a mistake to make jelly too stiff, because it quite destroys its delicacy. A jelly ought to keep its shape, and yet tremble in the dish when touched with a spoon, and it ought to dissolve instantly when put into the mouth. I once saw some jelly which was so stiff that it could have been tossed across the table from one glass dish to another without fear of being broken. The cook who made it was exceedingly proud of it. She said, “ You don’t break my jellies in a hurry.” I thought to myself, “ No, and you would not eat them in a hurry either,” for I knew the jelly would taste like glue. 1 did not think it was good jelly, though it might be firm. There is still another point to be considered. The more gelatine we use, the more eggs we shall require for clearing. I daresay you remember that when we were talking about clarifying soup, we said that the quantity of raw meat needed depended not upon the quantity of stock, but upon the meat used in making the stock. It is the same here ; the stiffer the jelly the more difficult it will be to clear, and the more eggs will be required for the pur- pose. At the same time our jelly must be stiff enough, or it will break in the dish, and that will constitute it a failure.