Breakfast Dishes. 149 pan must be used, employ it to fry (in bacon-fat) the cold boiled potatoes which were left at dinner yesterday. The potatoes should be cut into dice and fried till they are hot through and quite brown. They will be an excellent accompaniment to the toasted bacon. If, when all is said and done, you cannot get the fire clear for toasting, fry the bacon siowly, so you will make the best of a bad job. We may fry sliced ham with a better conscience than bacon. If it is to be a success, however, it must not be dr)’, it must be cut about the third of an inch thick, it must be fried gently and turned constantly, and it must not be overcooked. Eggs poached or fried are a very favourite and suitable accompaniment to either bacon or ham. In my opinion the former of these two methods is to be preferred in both cases; but tastes differ on this point as on many others. If the eggs are fried, let them be cooked in sufficient boiling bacon-fat to keep them from burning and no more, and cook them over a moderate fire. Be sure that the fat is entirely free from burn before the eggs are slipped into it. Baste the eggs well, and trim and drain them before serving. If the eggs are poached, use a shallow stewpan, and put a few drops of vinegar or lemon-juice into the water, as this will make the white part whiter. Break the eggs carefully into a cup, and try not to break the yolk, then simmer them in sufficient gently boiling water to cover them entirely. Take them out on a drainer the moment the whites look set. If boiled fast they will break. Drain thoroughly and serve. A very agreeable way of cooking eggs for breakfast is the following: Take as many small, deep tins (dariole moulds are the most suitable for the purpose) as there are eggs to be cooked. Butter them well inside, and sprinkle in them a savoury mixture made of two ounces of finely minced cold boiled ham, fat and lean together, a teaspoon- ful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Break an egg carefully into each tin, place the moulds side by side in a saucepan, with hot water to come half way up the sides of the tins, but not to flow into the eggs. Poach the eggs gently till the white is set. Turn the eggs upon rounds of toasted bread, and serve. Buttered eggs furnish a pleasant variety for breakfast.