68 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. too long, or boiled too long, the scum may sink down again, and the soup will be spoiled. Another point to be noted is that the soup must not be clarified before the day on which it is wanted, or it will become cloudy with standing. It is astonishing what a number of soups may be made of this clear soup. Sago, rice, macaroni, vermicelli nou- illes, pearl barley, tapioca, and semolina may all be boiled separately, then dropped into it, and the soup will then be called after the name of the distinctive ingredient. When spring vegetables, young turnips, carrots, or leeks are put into clear soup it becomes prmtaniere, or spring soup. When these same vegetables are softly stewed in butter and cut into shreds it is jidiemie. When savoury custard (cut into diamonds or stars^ is put into it, it is soup royale. if Brussel sprouts are introduced it is Flemish soup; if crusts of bread, it is croute au pot; if homely vegetables, it is soup d, la paysanne; if poached eggs, it is Colbert’s soup. And so we might go-on : jardiniire, brtinoise, chif- fonade, macidoine, nive}'naise, and others are all clear soup, with veiy slight differences. If there are any girls belonging to this class who try to follow my instructions, and make some clear soup in the way I have described, I know quite well what the result will be. The soup will be excellent, bright, clear, and good, but they will feel that it has been a great trouble to make. I should not be surprised if their state of mind were similar to that of the charity-boy mentioned in Pickwick, who, when he got to the end of the alphabet, said, “Whether it is worth while going through so much to learn so little is a matter of taste. / think it isn’t.” After all, important as cookery may be, there are other things to be done in the world ; and though we might be willing to make the best clear soup for high days and holidays, it is more than probable that few would be able to give the time to it very often. Therefore, it will be an advantage to learn an easier and cheaper way of preparing it, so as to achieve very nearly, though not quite, as satis- factory a result. T he easier method is to use stock made of Liebig’s Extract of Meat, instead of stock from fresh meat. A small quantity of this extract dissolved in a little boiling