34 '-riie Girl’s Own Cookery Book. And in order that you may do this, you must think about all the outside details beforehand. The first of these is the meat. Small portions of food are reserved for broiling, and as the method adopted for one thing calls for knowledge that is useful with all, I will take a steak as a sample of what is to be done. There are various kinds of beef-steak, but the best kinds of all for broiling are rump-steak and fillet-steak ; and of these, in my opinion, rump-steak is to be preferred. Fillet-steak is exceedingly tender, but it does not contain quite as much flavour as rump-steak. The beef should have been well kept, and the steak should be freshly cut from it. If it is cut some hours before it is wanted, some of the gravy will run from it. Also, it should be cut an inch, or very nearly an inch, thick. I dare say there will be a little difficulty in getting the butcher to cut it of an equal thickness all the way along. If he is simply ordered to do it, he won’t do it; but if you go and stand by him while he cuts it off, and impress what you want upon him, you will very likely get it. But supposing—and it is always well to be prepared for all sorts of “ supposings ” —the weather is frosty and the meat is frozen ; then we must be careful to put our steak into a warm kitchen for an hour or two, that it may thaw before it is cooked. If it were cooked as it is it would most certainly be tough. The next consideration is the fire. This must be perfectly clear, bright, and red ; and in order that it may be so, it must be made in good time, so that the coal may have time to get hot throughout, and not be smoky and throwing out little jets of gassy flame. Broiling could not be satisfactorily done with a fire that had been lately mended, and had only black, smoky coal on the top. ; The best fire for the purpose is either a coal fire that has burnt low, or a fire that was made up with cinders free | from dust. i Then there are the gridirons, for there should be two gridirons in every kitchen, one for meat and one for fish ; indeed it would be an advantage if three gridirons were provided, and one of them kept especially for bloaters, which are so strongly flavoured that they generally leave ; their odour behind them. There are various kinds of gridirons. The ordinary thick iron ones answer very