Cookery for Invalids. 117 and pour in the custard. Tie some paper, slightly buttered, over the top, and set the basin in a saucepan containing boiling water which will reach half way up the basin, but which must on no account touch the edge of the paper. Set the saucepan by the side of the fire, and simmer very gently till the custard is set. It will take about twenty minutes. If the water is allowed to boil fast round the basin the custard inside will be full of holes, instead of being smooth and even. This custard may be served hot or cold. Sometimes invalids who have a great distaste for ordinary beef-tea served hot, will enjoy it served cold, or offered as a jelly. Now, the best beef-tea, made from juicy meat, such as the roll of the blade-bone, and which has not been allowed to reach the boiling point, will not jelly when cold ; but beef-tea made by thoroughly stewing the shin of beef will jelly. Beef-tea jellies because of the gelatine which it contains. Gelatine is the least valuable part of butcher’s meat, and it is obtained chiefly from bone and gristle. I do net recommend, therefore, that beef-lea should be made into a jelly because it will be more nourishing, but because it may prove more appetising. 1 have known invalids enjoy jelly beef-tea who turned away with loathing from liquid beef-tea. Jelly (I do not mean now beef-tea jelly, but calfs-foot jelly, and isinglass or gelatine jelly) has fallen very much in the estimation of doctors and nurses of late years. I can remember that when I was a girl, calf’s-foot jelly was the one article of nourishment that was supplied before all others in cases of weakness. If any member of a family was taken ill, the cousins and the aunts, but especially the aunts, used to come round at once with superlative moulds of jelly, as furnishing undoubted proof of sympathy and affection. We children used to regard it as one of the compensations attending indisposition, that we were allowed to have an unlimited supply of the same. Of course calf’s-foot jelly is a very different thing to gelatine jelly, but it is possible to estimate even calfs- foot jelly too highly. Jelly is very good when mixed with other substances, which are nourishing, but taken alone, it serves too often to satisfy the appetite without doing