64 The GirVs Own Cookery Book. I f ■will not taste at all good when the five hours are over, and it is poured out, and carried into the larder. Never- theless, it will contain goodness, and we can make excellent soup when the time arrives for us to do so. Perhaps the bones do not appear to be sufficiently stewed after the liquor is strained from them. They ought to look quite clear and clean, and in such a con- dition that when dry we should have no objection to put them into our pockets. If this be so, we may stew them again next day with a small quantity of fresh cold water, but we must on no account be persuaded to leave them in the saucepan all night. When we want to make superior stock we take fresh meat. If we wanted three pints of stock we should need three pounds of meat—shin of beef for brown stock, knuckle of veal for white stock—and we must allow a pint of water to a pound of meat, and one pint of water over. The meat is to be cut into small pieces, the smaller the better, and covered with the cold water, then salted, boiled up, skimmed and simmered exactly as recommended for bone soup. The vegetables, a carrot, half a turnip, a leek, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, three or four sticks of celery, and twenty peppercorns, will be sufficient tor three pints of stock. In both these instances the liquor in which meat had been boiled, and especially the liquor in which “rabbit” or “chicken” or even rabbit bones or chicken bones had been stewed, would be much to be preferred to water if it could be had. If fresh meat were used, any trimmings 01 meat or noultry that there might be should be thrown into the pa.t and stewed with the meat; they would make the stock stronger. There is still another kind of stock which may be needed, and that is fish stock for fish soup. It may be made with the liquor in which fish has been boiled, and the bones and skin of the fish with an anchovy, an onion, and one or two cloves may be stewed in it afterwards. Fish soup should be carefully skimmed, and it must be remembered that it will not keep so well as meat stock. - ^yc now have our stock^Avliich is the basis of soup, rea^d) . The proceiis of comerting it into soup must lie reserved for another lesson.