72 The Girl’s Own Cookery Book. enjoyed thoroughly, no matter how good it may taste. When brown roux is used, the soup must be simmered by the side of the fire lor a while, and the fat must be skimmed off as it rises. A little caramel, ketchup, or a little strong brown gravy or Liebig’s extract may be added to the soup when it is about to be served if further colouring is required. Pastilles Carpentier also, which consist of small round balls like marbles, are to be bought at most grocers. They are specially made for colouring soup, are excellent for the purpose, and very cheap. All colouring ingredients, however, and especially caramel or ketchup, must be in- troduced very sparingly ; they must on no account be added in such quantities that they can be tasted. A soup that tastes of ketchup or burnt sugar is a failure, no matter how rich and brown it may look. Nevertheless it is a convenience to have materials of this kind at hand, because a small quantity will often impart the desired colour without exciting a suspicion of its cause. Caramel is easily made. Four ounces of moist sugar are put into an old saucepan and boiled until it is of a light brown colour. It is then stirred until it is very dark, without being burnt, when half a pint of boiling water is boiled with it for five minutes to dissolve it; it may then be strained into a bottle, and put aside till wanted. Caramel thus prepared beforehand is very much to be prelerred to the rough-and-ready browning used by cooks every day, and made by burning sugar in an iron spoon. The latter preparation is almost certain to spoil the flavour of a dish into which it enters. The former, if used very carefully indeed, may improve the look of a soup without injuring its taste. Yet even this is a dangerous addition, and should be dispensed with if possible. Purdes differ from thick soups in that the vegetables used in flavouring the liquor, or the materials used for thickening, are rubbed patiently through a sieve ; then mixed with the liquor once more, and boiled up again before serving. In purdes nothing is wasted ; you get the full benefit of everything used in making the soup. Yet it is to be feared that purdes will never be very popular with people who have to do their own cooking, because this process of rubbing vegetables through a