The Girl's Own Cookery Book. 124 worse. If it could have been that, when this “sinking at the pit of the stomach,” as they call it, was felt, some true friend had given them a cupful of good beef tea, or a cupful of coffee to drink instead of the beer, they would have felt better almost as quickly, and no harm would have been done. Unfortunately, however, beer is always to be had, and beef-tea is a rarity, and so the mischief is done. I am not going to advocate teetotalism here. It is not my place to do so, for cookery is my subject now, not the drinking habits of the community. Perhaps, however, I may be allowed to say one thing—it is that people should never take stimulants without food, or immediately before taking food. Let them relieve the feeling of exhaustion by eaiuig, not by drinking, and afterwards take the beer or wine, if they must have it. If everybody would follow this simple rule, drunkenness would very soon be almost unknown among us. Yet how usual it is for people of all sorts and conditions to take a glass of beer or wine when tired, and spoil their appetite on that. I have again and again heard cooks— for example, when hot and weary with preparing food for others—say, “ Give me a class of beer— I am ready to drop and when the beer was finished they have not much cared to eat. It is conduct like this which leads to drunkenness. Many poor women are accustomed to drink beer when exhausted, and when they do not drink beer, drink tea, and that is almost as bad, only it acts in a different way. How many poor women there are— sempstresses and others—who sit still to their work, who take tea for their dinner ! Tea and coffee are both very excellent indeed in their right places, and no one appre- ciates them more than 1 do ; but they do not constitute nourishing food, and people who try to live on them are simply starving themselves by inches. Beer and tea are both taken because they are convenient, and it is troublesome to prepare good food. Yet I fear that in many cases these poor women would not know how to cook the food even if it were at hand. It would be true charity if those who have an opportunity would teach the very poor how to cook. There are a great many clever managing women