Hcnv to Make Tea and Cojfee, 141 In Russia it is usual to drink tea with lemon-juice, instead of milk or cream. The taste for tea thus prepared is one which I, for one, have not yet acquired. In Knjtland, sugar, with milk or cream, are the usual additions to the fragrant beverage. Even at this point there is a little detail which is worth attending to. The sugar and milk will be more perfectly blended with the tea if they are both put in before the tea, instead of after it. Perhaps you think this is fancy on my part; but try both ways, and see if I am not right. So much for the right way of making tea. We now come to coft’ee. So far I have had the feeling that I was addressing critical readers who were disposed to challenge the correct- ness of every word, and who thought they knew' quite as much as I about the right way of making tea. Now, however, I assume a different attitude. It my readers (excepting perhaps an occasional one here and there) are not humble minded and abashed they ought to be so, for though English people may make tea properlj', they cannot make coffee, and it is quite a rare thing to find coffee in England that is fit to drink. Nevertheless, if you have good materials and proper utensils, it is exceedingly easy to make good coffee. The materials are freshly-roasted coffee berries, bought whole ; the utensils are a coffee-mill for grinding the berries (just before they are to be used, and not earlier) and a tin cafeti^re, such as is to be bought of any size at every ironmongers. With this cafetiere you can, without difficulty, make delicious French coffee ; without the caleiiire, you can make English coffee of varying excellence, and that is all. It is not often that I say that particular utensils are required to produce particular results. I am sure that all who know me well will acknowledge that I am always ready to save expense, and that 1 continually advocate economy. I know quite well that it is “ bad workmen who quarrel with their tools,” and I have a great admira- tion for the historical rook who made a baking sheet out of an old iron tray, and a fish fryer out of a worn out wire sieve ; but 1 maintain that if you want to make real