95 Ho7v to Cook Fish. sized sole, for example, would be done in about seven minutes, a very large sole would require fifteen minutes ; fillets of fish would be done in about a minute. There is one thing to be said : it is only while you are new to the business that you will have any doubt on this point. A little experience will enable you to tell at once when the fish is cooked. Till you gain this experience you will do no harm if you test the fish—that is, stick a knife into the thickest part as soon as it colours, and take a peep to see how things are progressing. When the flesh leaves the bone easily, the fish is cooked. It ought to look moist, not dry, otherwise it is over-cooked. It is well to re- member that fish is much more frequently over-cooked than under-cooked. It is an e.xcellent plan to have some finely-sifted bread raspings at hand, and to sprinkle a pinch over the place where the knife was stuck in, and any other weak parts there may be, at the last moment, when the fish is dished ready for the table, just as artists give one or two finishing touches to their pictures after they are hung on the walls of the Academy. A little while ago I said that frying batter was an excel- lent coating for fish that was to be fried. This batter is made as follows ;— Frying Baiter.—Put a quarter of a pound of flour and a pinch of salt into a bowl, and mix it very smoothly with two tablespoonfuls of pure salad oil. Stir in gradually one gill of lukewarm water, and beat well and briskly. Let the batter stand for a while, then ten minutes before it is wanted stir lightly into it the whites of two eggs which have been whisked to a firm froth. Thick plaice neatly filleted is excellent when dipped in this batter and fried, or even when it is simply dried and rolled in flour and fried. When thus cooked and accom- p.anied by Dutch sauce, plaice is, in my humble opinion, quite a superior dish. When I say this, I am quite aware that plaice is cheap fish, and that it is scorned by many people. This is because it is inexpensive, and therefore cooks will not condescend to find out which is the best way of cooking it. If only it were difficult to get, and sold at a high price, cooks would take the trouble to learn how to cook it properly, and then epicures would speak of it rapturously, and poor folks would wish they could