150 The Girl’s Own Cookery Book. The following is a quick and easy way of preparing this dish. Take one fresh egg for each person, with one egg over if liked, and allow a tablespoonful of milk, an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and salt for two eggs. Melt the butter in a small stewpan over a gentle fire; break the eggs into it, and add the milk and seasoning. Stir one way quickly, and without stopping, until the eggs become thick and lightly set, but on no account allow them to become hard. Have ready a hot dish, or, if pre- ferred, a slice of hot buttered toast; turn the egg mixture upon it, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the top, and serve. Eggs on the dish are very good for breakfast. Take a dish (made either of earthenware or tin) which will stand the fire, and can be sent to table. Melt a good slice of butter inside, and break the eggs into it, being careful to preserve the yolks whole. The dish should not be so large that the eggs will spread overmuch. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper on the top, pour a little more butter over, and bake gently and slowly, either on the range or in the oven, till the white of the eggs is lightly set. Besides the small savoury preparations usually served at breakfast, it is an excellent plan, where it is allowed, to have cold meat of some kind—brawn, pressed beef, cold boiled ham, cold beefsteak pie, collared tongue, a Bath chap, or a hand of pork pickled and boiled—on the sideboard, so that slices can be cut off as they are wanted. It will not be possible for me to give the recipes for each one of these dishes here, but doubtless they are known, or can be easily obtained, by my readers. The advantage connected with them is that they are ready cooked, and need only to be placed on a clean dish and garnished prettily with parsley. They constitute a solid substratum of fact, the piice de r^sista?ice of the meal, quieting the conscience of the housekeeper, and partially appeasing the hunger of the guests by their mere appearance. Pickled herritigs are delicious for breakfast, and when delicately prepared are always popular. Of course, they must be cooked the day before they are wanted, and are to be eaten cold. Procure about a dozen fresh herrings, and, if you have a choice, select small fish rather than