Hcnv to Cook Fish. 93 ready for use when wanted. Thus prepared, they will keep for a while. A sole is a typical fish for frying, and therefore we will suppose that we are about to fry a sole, and that it is skinned, trimmed, and perfectly dry. We put the fat (sufiiciently deep to cover the fish) on the fire to heat gradually. We may then adopt one of five methods :— 1st. Roll the fish in flour, shake the loose flour from it, and fry. When rolled in flour, or dipped in batter, the fish should be prepared just before it is fried. and. Brush the fish with milk, cover it with flour, shake the loose flour from it, and fry. 3rd. Dip the fish into thick batter of flour and water, and fry. 4ih. Dip the fish into frying batter, and fry. 5th. Beat an egg lightly, lay the fish in it, brush it all over with egg, then stick a fork into the head of the fish and lift it out, lay it on bread-crumbs, shake crumbs over it to cover it entirely, lift it out once more with a fork, and press the crumbs on gently with the flat side of a knife, and fry. When egg and bread-crumbs are used, the fish may be prepared some time before it is to be fried. Perhaps you are inclined to say. Why not turn the fish with our fingers ? Why is it necessary that we should use a fork or skewer ? Because, after the fish has been egged it must not be handled. If it is, the egg will be taken off in places, and this will prevent the crumbs adhering to the fish. It is desirable, also, that the crumbs should be pressed on with a knife, otherwise they also may drop otf and spoil the look of the fish. The fish is now ready, and when the fat also is ready for it, it may be laid in the hot fat, which should be deep enough to cover it. I daresay you remember that I said that the fat was hot enough when a light blue film came from it. Yet even in this there is room for the exercise of judgment and experience. Large fish, which need to be cooked through, should not have the fat so hot as small fish, which require very little cooking. The rule, therefore, is, the smaller the fish the hotter the fat. Whitebait, which are the smallest of all fish, need fat so hot that it seems to be almost on the point of