The Gul's Own Cookery Book. 90 savoury mixture, sprinkle the remainder of the ingredients over it, and add a little more lemon-juice and the gravy, and a small piece of butter placed here and there on the fish. Sprinkle the bread-crumbs thickly over all, and bake in a quick oven. When soft in the thickest part, it is done. It will take about ten minutes, but it must on no account be over-cooked. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish prettily. The other day the amiable fishmonger with whom I deal asked me to step into his inner room and inspect his apparatus for frying fish. Of course I did so, and I wished that I could have taken with me every girl be- longing to our cookery class, for I knew that no one who had once seen what was to be seen there would ever again imagine that to fry fish properly it is necessary to have only as much melted lard in a frying pan as will suffice to keep a fish from burning. The fat in which the fishmonger fried his fish was in what looked like a copper wiih a fire underneath it, just as there is a fire under the copper in which clothes are boiled on washing day. The pan itself was about two feet square and six or eight inches deep. It was more than half full, not of oil nor of lard, but of good dripping. This fat was never thrown away. It was not sold for kitchen grease, as so much valuable fat is sold nowadays, to be replaced by expensive and very much inferior lard. As it gradually boiled away fresh fat was added to it, and it was used again and again and again. 1 did not wonder that so large a trade in fried fish was carried on in the neighbourhood when I saw what facilities the fishmonger enjoyed for frying his fish. I have already in another place ^ spoken of the method to be adopted in frying of all kinds, and of the fat which is best suited to the purpose. The girls who have at- tended our class from the commencement will remember that I said then, that in true frying the article to be cooked must be entirely covered with fat, just as an article to be boiled is entirely covered with water. Fish is no exception to this rule. It should be plunged into plenty of hot fat (so hot that it is still, that a thin blue vapour ^ See the “ Frying Pan,” p. 2S et seq.