Creams, 105 For one thing we must have “double” cream, that is, cream which is very thick, in consequence of its having stood twenty-four hours on the milk. The cream should be put into a cool place until it is wanted ; indeed, if it has to stand a little while before being used, the vessel containing it should be put into another one which has cold water in it, and the cream should be left uncovered. When the custard and gelatine are almost cool, we put the cream into a large bowl, and whisk it lightly and regularly with an ordinary egg-whisk until, though still smooth, it begins to stiffen. The great thing in doing this is to slop in plenty of time. If we keep on only half a minute too long our cream will be spoilt, because it will crack or “turn” as it is called. We may know when it is suffi- ciently whisked by its hanging to the spoon when the latter is lifted up. We shall find that the cream after it is whipped occupies very nearly twice as much room as it did originally. If we liked, instead of using half a pint of whipped cream, we could use a quarter of a pint, to which the white of two eggs beaten to froth had been added. VV’hite of egg is often added to cream which is to be whipped, and the object of the addition is chiefly to increase the quantity. We should always remember to whisk cream in a cool place. It is much more difficult to whip in summer time than it is in winter. If, not- withstanding all our care, it should turn slightly, a spoonful of something cold, milk or water, should be put with it. We may now flavour the custard with an ounce of white sugar, half a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, two table- spoonfuls of brandy, if this is allowed. Brandy is fre- quently omitted ; but it is a very great improvement to a cream of this kind, for vanilla and brandy always go well together. If the custard be cool, we stir the whipped cream lightly into it, and turn the whole into a mould, which has, of course, been first scalded with boiling water, then rinsed out with cold water, and left wet. As this cream may serve as a sort of model for an in- definite number of creams, I will give the recipe once more, briefly and altogether, so that there may be no mistake. Soak an ounce of gelatine in as much milk as will barely cover it. Make a custard with half a pint