52 The GirVs Own Cookery Book. thus prepared upon ice or in a cool place for about ten minutes. We now roll it till it is about the third of an inch thick, and in doing this we must be careful that the butter does not break through the paste in any direction. Also we must remember to have the paste straight before us, and to roll it straight, otherwise the flakes will be one- sided. We then fold the paste into three equal parts, flatten it lightly with the rolling-pin again, then turn it round so that we leave the rough edges towards us, and roll it again, fold it, and put it away for a quarter of an hour, and repeat until it has had seven turns or rolls, and been put upon ice three times, or after every other turn. When the last turn has been given we again leave it in a cold place for a few minutes, roll it till it is a quarter of an inch thick, and it is ready for use. Pastry thus made will rise to five times its original height. When a girl has once learnt to make puff pastry well she may vary her method a little, without doing much harm ; that is to say, she may use rather less butter, or rather more flour, or in cold weather she may shorten the time allowed for cooling ; her e.xperience wdl enable her to decide how far she may depart from the regulated routine. It will be obvious that the method I have described is rather a troublesome one. It need not be so, however, if other cooking is being done at the time, for nothing can be easier than to put the pastry away, proceed with other work, then at the right time fetch it out, give it a roll, put it away again, and repeat until it is finished. I have known cooks make very good flaky pastry with- out putting it to cool at all. They simply made the paste, rolled it out, divided the butter into equal portions, spread one portion upon the paste as they would spread butter upon bread, floured it well, folded it over, and rolled it; then buttered, floured, and rolled it again until the requi- site quantity of butter had been used. If there were time to let it lie they would seize the opportunity of doing so, but otherwise they would leave it. It will be understood that puff paste is used for superior pastry of all kinds, meat pies, tarts, patties, and vol-au- vents. There is, however, an easier way of making superior 1