ii6 The Girl’s Own Cookery Book. after day. How much more is this likely to be the case with invalids, whose appetite at the best is poor, and who have been rendered fastidious and fanciful through disease. The skill of a cook is shown quite as much in the readiness with which she can provide pleasant little surprises as in the delicacy of the food prepared. Take, for example, the food which is perhaps more valuable and more frequently prepared for invalids than any other—beef-tea. When first supplied in cases of weakness beef-tea is usually taken with great relish. It seems to give strength and tb supply just what is wanted, and a patient w'ill look for it and enjoy it heartily. In a very short time, however, the appetite for it will fail, and the very name of beef-tea appears to excite loathing. In cases of this kind a nurse who is a clever cook wll introduce a change of flavour ; present the beef-tea under another form, and avoid the jiame altogether. A very agreeable variety may be made by using half beef and half mutton or veal in making the tea, or by stewing an inch or two of celery, or even an onion and one or two cloves with the beef. The addition of a little sago also, or crushed tapioca, and a small quantity of cream to the beef-tea will alter its taste, whilst the addition will increase rather than diminish the nourishing wholesome qualities of the lea. When making this, soak a tablespoonful of sago or tapioca in a little cold water for an hour This will take away the earthy taste. Strain it and put it into a saucepan with a gill of fresh water, and boil gently till tender. Add a pint of good beef-tea, hot; simmer this with the sago for a minute or two, then add a quarter of a pint of cream. Stir thoroughly, and serve. If liked, an egg or a couple of eggs may be added to the beef-tea as well as the cream. The eggs must be broken into a basin, and the specks must be carefully removed. The hot tea, with the cream or without it, should now be poured on gradually, off the fire, and stirred well that the eggs may be thoroughly broken up and separated. Beef- tea may also be used in savoury custard, such as is some- times made for putting into clear soup. For this, take the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, beat them well, put with them a quarter of a pint of strong beef-tea, and season with a little salt. Butter a small jar or basin,