84 The GirPs Own Cookery Book. to the time when fish will be easily obtained by every- body, we must learn all about it in good time, so that we shall be able to make the most of it when we have it. One reason why fish is valuable is that it furnishes food for the brain. In these days a great many people are overworked. It is quite a rare thing to meet with a person who does just as much work as is good for him, no more and no less ; for we live in an age of e.xtremes, and have either to be out of patience with those about us, because they are idle and do not appreciate the dignity of work, or we are anxious about them because they work beyond their strength. Unfortunately, too, the overworkers are just the individuals who ought to take care of themselves ; they are fathers and bread- winners, who have anxieties and responsibilities which make them weary and old before their time. Girls may not be able to remove care from those they love, but they can help them to bear it by taking pains to prepare food which will supply the strength which is so much needed. Believe me, both energy and the power of endurance depend very much moi'e upon the kind of food we eat than we have yet realised, and the sooner we acknow- ledge this the better. The Rev. Charles Kingsley once wrote a poem, in which he said— “Men must work, and women must weep.” Now I believe and hope that the majority of women would, instead of weeping, set to work and help when trouble came. Sympathy is not worth much unless it passes into action. Girls who would, when their fathers were overworked and ailing, content themselves with weeping instead of trying to restore them by placing good food before them—beef-tea, meat, or fish—would not be worth the salt with which they would have savoured the food if they had prepai'ed it. Such girls would not, however, be likely to attend our cookery class, and there- fore we need not trouble about them, but turn our atten- tion to those who will act more reasonably. We must not suppose, however, that all fish is equally