65 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. on the same deck. Some of the small fragments inflicted several contused wounds : one 2 cm. long at a point immediately above the occipital protuberance, anotlier 10 cm. long on the left side of the forehead, and a smaller one 3 cm. long on the front part of the upper portion of the right fore-arm. There was also an abrasion on the outer side of the upper portion of the left fore-arm. Previous to this event, he Iiad been under medical treatment for pleurisy which presented signs of aggravation after the injury. He was ordered to have rest, and corrosive gauze was applied to tlie wounds. On the 20th of :the month, he was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. The wounds of the head then healed up by scabbing ; on the right fore-arm pus was slightly discharged ; tlie wound was washed with sublimate lotion and dressed with corrosive gauze. Physical signs of the chest revealed dulness on the lower part of the right side, feeble respiratory sounds and diminished vocal thrill but the temperature was normal. Iodide of potassium was given. The wounds were completely healed by October 5 th. 37. —Contused wound of the left parietal region :—K. Miyata, aged 24, one of the crew of No. 9 side-gun in the Matsushima : On September 17th, 1894, he was standing by No. 9 gun-battery, on tlie starboard side of the fore part of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. shell exploded, hitting the shield of No. 4 side-gun on the port side of the same deck. One of the fragments, inflicted a small contused wound 2 cm. long and 1 cm. wide which was so superficical as not to reach beyond the cuticle. It was directly sealed with corrosive gauze and healed by scabbing by the 29th of the same month. 38. —Contused wounds of the left parietal and left lumbar regions :— D. Kobayashi, aged 21 years 5 months, one of the crew of No. 4 gun of the Hiyei ; in the battle of the Yellow sea while firing the No. 4 side gun on the port side of the waist-deck, a shell came over the netting of the starboard waist, and broke through a pinnace and a steam launch on the booms, and exploded against the stanchion of the booms on the port side . Some of the iron and wooden splinters inflicted a contused wound of the size of a 5 rin copper coin at a point 4.5 cm. above the left ear. The wound was superficial and did not pierce the pericranium. There were also small contused wounds on the left loin. They were dressed with corrosive "gauze, and the patient was, on the 19th next, taken aboard the transport Genkai-maru bound for home and was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st of the same month At that time the wound of the head was forming a scab and those of the loin