158 INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. shell pieraed tlirongli the lower part of the funnel and brake it to. pieces, and some of tlie broken fragments mutilated his right hand, except the ulnar side, and the little finger, and exposed the lower end of tlie radius; the skin, muscles and tendons about the wrist were lacerated and attended by htemorrhage. Also on the left side of the occipital region was found a lacerated wound 2.5 cm. in vertical and 1 cm. in transverse diameter and another one 2 c m. in vertical and 1 c. m. in transverse diameters on the ball of the left little finger, and a third of 2 c m. on the inner side of the left leg, in which an irregular iron fragment 2 cm. long and 1.5 cm. wide was felt and extracted. After stopping the hfemorrhage of each wound, antiseptic bandages were applied, and the patient was kept perfectly quiet. On the 18th next, the right fore-aim was amputated at its lower third by circular incision; the skin flap was then sutured, and dressed antiseptically. On the 19th, the temperature was normal, and the same day he was taken on board a transport, and admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At the time, the wounds of the occipital region, the ball of the left little finger and tlie left leg were suppurating owing to the bruise of their margins. As a part of the stump of the fore-arm began to suppurate the threads were removed and a drainage-tube introduced, and all the wounds were strictly managed antiseptically, and progress was favourable. By the end of October, only a small granulating surface remained on the stump, all the other Avounds had cicatrized. On the 28th, he was transferred to tlie Kure Naval Hospital. On February 18th, the granulating surface of the stump had healed by scabbing. On the 2Gth, a certif- icate of his inability for service was forwarded to the admiralty, the artificial limb which Her Majesty the Empress was pleased to grant him was given him and he was discharged from the service for life ; with regular pension. (G) INJUEIES OF THE FINGER. 231.—Abrasion of the right index and middle fingers :—T. Goto, aged 24, a seaman of the Saikyo-maru, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was firing the 47 m. m. Q. F. gun on the starboard side in the fore part of the upper deck, when a hostile shell came from the starboard and broke off the derrick of the fore-mast. One of the broken wooden splinters wounded him on the right fingers. On examination, on the back of the right index and middle fingers were found abrased wounds with slight lia3morrhage but without any lesion of bones. Carbolic gauze was applied. On the 20th of the same month, they had healed by scabbing.