DISEASES AND INJUEIES. 409 From this table, it will be seen that the numbers both of cases and of days' sickness during the war show an increase as compared with the preceding five years. This increase is attrilmtable partly to the hard duties in which the force had to encrao-e durino- the war, and partly to the increase of the total force which resulted from the calling up of the first and second reserves. However, it shows a decrense of cases in the ratio of 5.40 per 1,000 of force, Avhen compared with the preceding five years and this decrease may justly be accounted for as a proof of our force having been full of patriotic spirit. When the war was once declared, the whole nation was roused to enthusiasm ; and this enthusiasm manifested itself especially in the forces on active service, who forgot everything in their indignant loyalty and public spirit, so much so that they refused to take rest or submit to medical help, not only when slightly ill, but so long as their mind and body could well atford to endure. The ratio of deaths per 1,000 of the force for the period of the war exhibits an increase of 1.32 in comparison with that of the preceding five years. But every war ever fought lias uniformly shown that deaths from disease are far more frequent than those consequent on wounds received in action. JSFotwithstandino^ this acknowledo^ed fact, the total number in our force of men, who died fr(jm injuries received in action was 150, while those who died of disease and injury during the same period were 172, giving the ratio of 10.51 per 1,000 for the former, and 12.00 per 1,000 for the latter, which ratios we can see do not present any remarkable difi'erence. This can only be attributed to the minute and elaborate attention paid to sanitary matters by the authorities concerned, Avliich prevented contagious diseases from mak- ing any great headway. Let us now refer to the histories of famous Avars in the nineteenth century at large, and look into the losses of life incurred in them.