PERFORATED WOUNDS. 334 all the other parts of his body were protected, the hand alone was exposed on the side i'rom which the explosion gas c^ime. Seeing that there also existed abrased wounds on several parts, we can venture to say that the person was struck by the fragments of a shell that burst in the neighborhood, and that the wounds on the parts covered with clothes, were probably caused by the shell-fragments rebounding from some other objects. We may therefore reasonably assume that the perforating wound of the abdomen was probably inflicted by a large I'ragment of the shell. The report that it was produced by a shell about 47 m. m. is no more than a mere conjecture based upon the size of the wound apei'ture. (2) The perforated wounds produced by shell-fragments num- bered 33 in all, occurring in 30 persons, of those having some interest will be briefly described below. 1st instance :—A perforated wound in the ball of the tlinmb had on the palm a round entrance aperture some 2 c. m. in diameter, which running along the radial side of the 2nd metacarpal bone found exit on the back of the hand. The exit was somewhat large presenting a lacerated appearance. Besides this, there were burns on both forearms. (No. 227.) 2nd instance :—-A large perforated wound on the right leg ; that is, at the upper part of the inner side of the leg, was a large irregular oval entrance aperture 15 cm. in length, which found its exit in a star-like shape 7 cm, long and 4 cm. wide on the back of the middle of the same leg (See the illustration in the clinical history). After a time, the healing process was gradual, and completed in 5 months, but owing to the cicatrix, the circulation of blood was somewhat obstructed so that the foot was inclined to swell, but friction and local bathing were resorted to, and the patient completely recovered, and returned to duty. (No. 282.) 3rd instance—-Perforated wound on the right side of the chest breaking the 4th rib and found exit on the back causing a heavy haemorrhage. In addition, the man sustained burns on the head and face, and he died on tlie spot. The size of the wound aperture was not known. (No. 148.)