INJURIES OF THE FACE. 80 the tower of the 32 cm. gun ou the fore part of the upper deck, ui charge of the tackle-menders and stretcher-bearers, when a shell exploded in the tower. One of the flying pieces grated off the varnished paintings on the tower-wall and hit against tlie lower edge of his lower jaw and inflicted an excoriation. Adhesive plaster was applied ; and the lesion healed the next day. 82. —A. Mikogami, aged 41, senior medical attendant of the Hashidate. In the fight of the Yellow sea, he was directing the car-riers of the wounded by the left side of the tower of the 32 cm. gun in the fore part of the upper deck, when a shell exploded in the tower. One of the pieces blown off the varnished paintings on the tower-wall hit his right malar region and inflicted an excoriation. It was covered with a piece of adhesive plaster and healed the next day. 83. —Excoriation of the face with burns in the lumbar region :— T. Ishii, aged 23, a man of the bow-gun of the Hashidate, at the battle of the Yellow sea, was in the tower of the bow-gun and was handing the gas-plate, which was just pulled out, to No. 6 man of the gun, when a shell from the enemy exploded in the tower ; one of the flying pieces knocked off the varnished paintings on the tower- wall hit tlie tip of his nose, inflicting an excoriation, while at the same time, the explosion flame of the shell gave him a slight burn in the loins. Adhesive plaster was applied to the excoriation and olive oil to the burns. 84. —Abrasion of the face :—K- Kawara, aged 34, a petty officer of the Fuso, who in the engagement of the Yellow sea, served as a tackle-mender as well as messenger, was at rest cross-legged under the port side of the fore bridge, when a shell came through the lower part of the funnel; and one of the broken pieces inflicted a linear abrasion on tlie left cheek. A corrosive sublimate gauze was applied, and it healed on the 10th day by scabbing. 85. —T. Muroi, aged 24, a man belonging to the stern-gun of the Akitsushima, at tiie time of the attack against the forts of Linknng island on February 7th, 1895, came to the side of the stern-gun on the poop-deck, carrying the cartridges, when a fliell burst on the desk, one of whose fragments hit his left cheek inflicting a super- ficial abrasion 1 cm. long. A corrosive gauze was applied, and on the 11th of the same month, the lesion healed by drying. 86. —K. Miyake, aged 30, a petty officer of the Tenryu, ou January 30th, 1895, was partaking in the bombardment of the enemy's ships in the port of Wei-hai-wei