INJURIES OF THE FACE. 92 forehead and cheek. The right lower wisdom tooth was extracted as it was loose and gave pain, owing to its partial destruction l)y a fragment of shell that had entered throngli the right cheek. Of the eye, the right pupil was dilated and the siglit remarkably impaired so that he could only distinguish light from dark. By an ophthal- moscopic examination, rupture of the retina was discovered. On the Hth the wound above the inner ankle of the right leg, was narrowing in its inlet yet pus accumulated inside, so it was cut open to evacuate the pus. By probing through the open wound a small fragment of shell was found on the inner side of tendo Achillis, which was extracted, a counter opening was made behind the outer ankle, and a drainage tube introduced. On the 21st, the wound on the right cheek had healed ; and on the 25th of November, the wound on the leg had greatly narrowed by the development of granulation, so the drainage tube was removed ; the lesion of the nose also became gradually narrowed. On December 23rd, tlie wound of the right leg was healed. The right eye gradually recovered its sight so that the patient could now perceive objects clearly, but the pupil remained as much dilated as ever, and external strabismus resulted, so that the patient complained of diplopia. On the 24th of February, 1895, a plastic operation was performed. The procedure was as follows :—-Under chloroform the skin over the superior maxilla was fully separated round the nasal wound and brought together at the median line by stitches ; drainage tubes were inserted into the nostrils and dressed antiseptically. On March 2nd the operated parts healed by first intension, leaving only a granulating surface about the size of a bean at the root of the nose to which boracic acid and vaseline was applied. On tlie 16th of the same month, every wound had healed completely. However, the sight of the right eye remained very weak, the patient being hardly able to read No. 200 of Snellen's type at a distance of 4 feet. On ophthalmoscopic examination a grayish-white scar was found on the upper and outer part of the optic disc which presented folds radiating from the scar by the puckering of the retina. Besides, several other sad sequelae were left such as divergent strabismus, flattening of the nose, closure of the right nasal meatus and dulness of the sense of smell and paralysis of the right cheek. On the 24th of April, he was invalided from the service for life, and granted a pension according to the regulation. {See the illttstiation)