BUHXS. 218 here and. there, or were excoriated, exposing the true sldn. Web boracic gauze was applied. On the 27th, tlie epidermis began to form on the face and the slonghed cuticles of tlie upper limbs having separated, fresh ones grew from the margins, so that the ulcerated parts were gradually drying. On October 11th, completely re- covered, he was sent back to service. 349. —Burns of the right shoulder, arm and buttock I. Terashi, aged 23, a member of the magazine party of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was engaged in hauling up shells from the fore magazine, when a hostile shell burst against the shield of No. 4 port side-gun, in the fore part of the lower deck, at the same time setting the powder of the side-guns on fire, the exo plosion inflicting burns of the 2nd degree on the right side of the shoulder t- the outer side of the right arm and on the right gluteal region. The burns were dressed with oiled lint, and he was, on the 20tli, conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At that time, the burns had blisters and casting off the epidermis, exposed the true skin which was suppurating here and there. Lotion of boracic acid was applied. On October 10th, new epidermis completely formed on the burned surfaces, which were healed without leaving cicatrix. On the 11th, he returned to service. 350. —Burns of the left shoulder, hands and left flank:—Y. Isonaga, aged 21, a member of the magazine party of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellw sea, was on the steps of the fore magazine, when a 30.5 hostile shell burst against the shield of No. 4 port side-gun, in the fore part of the lower deck and at the same instant ignited the ammunition stored for the side-guns. By the explosion, he sustained burns of a slight degree on the right .shoulder, ulnar half of both palms, the palmar aspect of the fingers and the right lumbar region. By application of oiled lint the burns completely healed on the 22ud. 351. —Burns of the right side of neck and forearms Yawamoto, aged 29, a gunner of the Naniwa, in the battle of the Phung-do, July 25th, 1894, was firing by the fort of No. 2 15 cm. gun, when the gas escaped out of the gun barrel and inflicted barns of the 2nd degree on the rigli.t side of the neck, and the forearnn. Oiled lint was applied, and the barns healed on August 6th. (C) BUENS OF LOCAL PAET. 352. —Burns of the face :—H. Tanaka, aged 28, one of the gun-crew of the Naniwa, in the battle of Phung-do, was firing from the fort of No. 6 side-gun, when