213 BURNS. 389.—Burns of the face, neck, and limbs :—0. Kawagnchi, aged 31, a car- penter of the Matsusliiiua, in the battle of the Yellow sea, Avas passing the fore part of the lower deck, when a shell burst against the shield of No. 4 port side-gun on the same deck and caused the aiunnniitions stored for the side-guns to explode. At this moment, by the flame of the ex[)losion, he sustained burns of the second degree on the face, neck, the lower parts of both forearms to the hands, and the lower part of the left leg. The burns were temporarily dressed on board the ship and on the 20th, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the burns prodiic d vesicles or stripped off the epidermis where serum was oozing. The face Avas covered by black scabs with suppurating spots here and there. Wet boracic lints were applied. On October 13tli, the burns were all healed without leaving cicatrices, and he returned to service on the 16th. 3i0.—Burns of the face, forearms and left leg :—Y. Kaburaki, aged 23, a carpenter of the Matsushiraa, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was posted as a fire- brigademan near the middle torpedo room, when a hostile shell burst striking the shield of No. 4 port side-gun, in the fore part of the lower deck, at the same time igniting the ammunition stored for the side-guns. By the flame of the explosion, he sustained burns of the 1st degree on the face, and those of the 2nd on forearms, and the front and outer side of the left leg. After being dressed on board the ship, he was, on the 20th, admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At this time, the skin of the face was cougested but there were no vesicles formed; and the burns of the limbs had blebs formed here and there with abrasion of the epidermis. Wet boracic lints were applied. On October 14th, the burns completely healed and he returned to service. 341.—Burns of face, neck, shoulders and forearms :—K. Kawazoye, aged 21, a blacksmith of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was standing, as a fire-brigademan, on the fore upper deck, wlieu a hostile shell burst against the shield of No. 4 port side-gun, in the fore part of the lower deck. At the same time fire started by the explosion of ammunition stored for side-guns, and by its flame he sustained burns of the 2nd degree on the face, neck, shoulders, forearms and hands. Urgent relief having been afforded on board the ship, the injured man was, on the 20th, admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the face was covered with black scabs ; the conjunctiva was congest?d and the eye sight impaired. The