90 INJURIES OF THE FACE. its angle to the sympiiysis, was damaged; the bicuspids, the first molar and a part of the second molar were lost, whilst the incisor teeth were loosened. The soft parts around the chin and the upper part of the neck were torn open, the pulsation of the carotid artery coiild be seen at the bottom of the wound which communicated with the cavity of the mouth, through a laceration about 1.5 cm. wide; granulation was imfavourable and the pus discharge copious. On April 1st, the temperature rose to 39.°8 C. and the mucous membrane under the tongue became swollen, pain being complained of at the part. The dressing was changed twice daily as before, and a gargle of chlorate of potash was administered. On the next day the temperature fell to the normal point, and the slough of the wound having completely come off, granu- lation became even and the pus discharge almost ceased. On the 4th, he was trans- ferred on board the Bankoku-maru homeward-bound, and was admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 8th. From that time, the temperature kept normal the swelling of the mucous membrane of the Inouth subsided, the pus discharge became very slight and granulation developed gradually. On the 20th, a small fragment of bone which appeared on tlie surface of the wound was extracted. In May, the greater part of the wound had formed a cicatrix, but the laceration communicating with the mouth had not yet closed. Tlie lacerated part was touched with silver nitrate. On the 16th, the patient was removed to Yokosuka Naval Hospital. x\t the time, the greater part of the wound had formed a curved cicatrix, 12 cm. long, running along the inferior margin of the right side of tlie lower jaw, in the middle of which a granulating surface of 2 cm. long was left, communicating with the cavity of mouth by a small sinus. As the right half of the lower jaw had been damaged the chin inclined to the right, so that the juxtaposition of the upper and lower teeth was lost when the mouth was shut; consequently articulation, mastication and deglutition were greatly hind- ered. The treatment was the same as before and the fluid diet continued. On the 28th, the loose canine and incisor teeth were pulled out. On June 3rd, two pieces of dead bone were picked out of the Avound in the mouth. On July 2Gth, the sinus communi- cating with the mouth at last closed, and the surface of the wound contracted greatly. On August 27th, the wound healed completely by the formation of a cicatrix but the twisting of the lower jaw became still greater. By the continuous use of tonics and nutritious diet tlie strength of his body was gradually restored. However, from the loss of a part of the lower jaw articulation and mastication were seriously impeded, so he was invalided for life on January 15th, 1896, and granted a pension according to regulations.