BURNS. 211 m. shell burst against the shiolil of No. 4 port side-gun on the lower deck. At the moment abundant ammunition stored for the side-guns were set on tire, and by the flame of the explosion ho received barns of the 2nd degree on the face, tLe right upper and lower limbs, and the inner side of the left leg. The parts were dressed with oiled lints and on the 20th, he was conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At that time, blebs were formed on the burned parts, in some places, while tlie epidermis was cast ofi' others, exposing the true skin. The burns were washed Avith boracic lotion and wet boracic lints applied. On October 11th, he completely recovered and returned to service. Shortly after his return to service, eczema appeared on the burned parts, and gradually spread, accordingly on February 19th, 1895, he was again admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Then, the eye-lids, corners of the mouth, neck, and both legs had eczema, the eye-lids were excoriated and the conjunctivae congested. The skin of the rest of the body Avas dry desquamating scales. Above conditions oscillated between improvement and retrogression to the failure of all measures of treat- ment. This was to be attributed to the impaired nutrition of the skin consequent to the burns, and thus judged no longer able for service, he was on January 31st, 1896, dismissed, and granted a pension for life according to the regulations. 336.—Burns of the face, chest, abdomen and upper iimbs :—J- Mitarashi, aged 21, a member of the magazine party of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yel- low sea, was lifting shells at the entrance of the fore magazine, Avhen a 30.5 c. m. shell burst striking the shield of No. 4 port side-gun in the fore part of the lower deck, at the same time causing the ammunition stored for the side-guns to explode. By the Hame of explosion, burns of the 1st degree Avere inflicted on the face, chest, abdomen, and of the 2nd degree, on the inner side of the right upper and the outer side of the left upper limb. The burns Avere dressed with oiled lint, and on the 20th, the patient Avas conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the burns of the face, chest and abdomen presented a dark reddish colour; those of the upper limbs had vesicles on or the epidermis stripped off. The burns of the 1st degree Avere painted Avith a mixture of boracic acid and olive oil, and those of the 2nd degree dressed Avith Avet boracic lint. On October 1st, he completely recovered, and returned to service. 387.—Burns of the head, face, neck and limbs :—J. Matsuo, aged 22, a seaman of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, Avas carrying shells to the iipper deck, Avhen a hostile shell burst on the lower deck, and at the same time setting