KAK'KE. 455 dietary change was introduced, no other sanitary change worthy of mention was made. It is certain that various sanitary measures such as the cleaning of ships, the reduction of time of work during the day in the hottest season, and the improvement of ventilation below the lower decks had been taken with the greatest care possible, but this was attended with no beneficial effect for preventing the disease, and it was not until after the introduction of the new dietary system that any sensible result was seen. Viewed from instances outside of the ISTavy, the same holds good. In prisons in the Empire, for many years, the daily allowance of food assigned to a prisoner was 750 grammes of rice, and some poor auxilliary food costing one or one and a half cents; and there were numerous cases of kak'ke. In the year 1875, the prisoners were allowed to have rice and barley, subsequently, in July 1881, it was enacted by law that at every prison barley and rice in the propotion of 6 to 4, should be supplied as the chief food. In prisons where barley was used from an earlier date, kak'ke had become much reduced, and since barley Avas made to form a part of the regulation food, it has become very rare in every prison. This change of diet in prisons was originally proposed with a view to economy and it was quite an unexpected result that the chano^e turned out to be the cause of brino-incr the disease under control. Again, with soldiers of the Army the case was similar. Formerly in barracks of every district many cases of kak'ke invariably occurred every year ; and the difference in numbers seemed to depend on the prices of commodities in respective districts. For, in the Army, the daily ration of a soldier was in f)rmer days 900 grammes of rice and auxilliary food costing 6 cents ; accordingly in places where the price of daily necessities was cheap, a comparatively larger cpiantity or a better qualit}' of food could be obtained, while the contrary was the case in such cities as Tokyo and Osaka, the prices