KA.K'KE. 476 K. Aso aged 33 years 11 months, carpenter of the Sasebo Naval Barracks about August 24th, 1894 felt pain in the loins on bending. After a time, the pain extended to botli thighs, when he was medically examined on board the Hashidate, and on September 7th, he was removed to the hospital ship Kobe-maru. He left the hospital-ship greatly relieved, but the numbness of the fingers and legs which had come on while on the hospital-ship was still lingering. On October 9th, he returned to the Barracks, where the lower limbs again commenced to swell, and the knee-joints lost power and walking became difficult. The patient again applied for medical help. On examination, he was found to possess a very good constitution, nutrition normal, without any sign of anaemia ; numbness existed in the tips of the fingers and legs, the latter of which were so swollen that when pressed deep marks were left. The knee-joint was loose and walking proved difficult. The patellar refiex was lost. Palpita- tion was marked, the pulse fall and counted 102, heart sounds normal, appetite and bowels not afiected. According to the patient, the food he was given while he was on board the hospital-ship Kobe-maru was very poor; that is, it consisted of rice chiefly with dishes such as pumpkin, winter-melon and some dried vegetables, and with quite a small ration of meat. 'I'he case was diagnosed as kak'ke, and a mixture of bicarbonate of soda, sulphate of magnesia and tincture of nux vomica was administered. However, seeing that it would run a long course, the patient was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on October 14th. At the time of admission, the patient had numbness in the legs, and tips of the toes ; the patellar reflex was lessened, palpitation apt to come on by any slight exertion such as walking. The former prescription was continued, with nutritious diet. Thus the patient was fast convalescing with the restoration of the patellar reflex and walking power returned to normal state. He left hospital on November 7th completely recovered.