310 BLIN'D AXD PEXETRATIXa WOUXDS. On enquiry, the injured man had a syphiHtic history ; accordingly anti-syphilitic, measures were taken and after a lapse of 7 months the wound was at last cured (No. 139.) 27th example :—A case of penetrating wound of the forehead. The scalp wound was 2 cm. long and half as wide, and the hone was perforated with a round hole some 1 cm. in diameter, the presence of a foreign body could not be ascertained ; and no brain symptoms existed. Four days after the injury he was admitted to the hospital, when the wound was clean, granulations healthy without any signs of sup- puration, and no cerebral symptoms were present, except nocturnal sleeplessness. The temperature rose to 38.° 5 C. but soon lowered to normal. In a week after ad- mission to the hospital, the patient complained of headache attended with a slight nausea and sleeplessness at night. Ice-bags to the head and calomel purgative were used, and in a few days the headache subsided, the mind became clear, and the ap- petite increased. Ten days after, occasional tinnitus aurium was complained of; the temperature was normal, but pulse slow counting 55 per minute. For some time, there was no marked change in the symptoms, however 15 days afterwards, the headache and tinnitus aurium became aggravated; chilliness and fever set in, the temperature rose to 38.° 3 C. From the wound in the forehead a slight discharge of pus appeared and the symptoms of brain compression gradually ensued. Accord- ingly trephining Avas performed and an abscess in the frontal region was found, how- ever, the locality of shell-fragment was not ascertained. The abscess was well washed with boracic lotion and a drainage tube inserted, after which the temperature abated somewhat and the subjective symptoms were relieved ; Init 3 days after, the tempera- ture again rose to 39° C, the pulse weak and quick counting 148, the respirations stertorous; the mind became dull, speech unintelligible, the eyes squinted, the pupils were unequal in size, and at length, the patient expired on the following day. (No. 59.) 28th example :—A case of penetrating wound on the right side of the chest below the axilla. Also, a blind wound on the inner side of the lower third of the left leg, which reached beneath the skin on the opposite side, where a foreign body was lodged. By opening the skin, a shell fragment 3 cm. in vertical diameter, 1.6 cm. in lateral diameter and 1.2 cm. iu thickness was taken out. The patient was admitted to the hospital 4 days after the injury, when the wound on the chest emitted a yellow thin fluid. There was pain in the chest and cough. The broken ends of the 10th rib were sharp and jagged, and were accordingly cut off. Further exami-