243 ON THE BA'l'TLE OF 'I'HE YELLOW SEA. Thus the injuries of the Avliole body ])ossess the highest rate, next come in order those of the head, abdomen and loAver limbs which have the same rate. When this table is compared Avith tlie 73 ' subsequent deaths ' Avhich occurred in the 1st Division of our Army in the Japan-China Avar, the different percentages are as folloAvs : the injuries of the head 16.4-f, of the neck 1.37, of the chest 28.77, of the abdomen -1:1.09, of the upper limbs 2.74, of the loAA^er limbs U.o'J, so that the ab- dominal injuries stand highest, and next come those of the chest and head, showing a great difference in the order of the proportional ratios of the injuries of respective localities. This is l^ecause as has already been said, in the case of a bullet Avound, even in an internal organ, the apertures are not large. Unlike shell fragments, a bullet is not only very small, but has no irregular angles as the former, accordingly death does not follow instantly, but mostly comes gradually during the course of subsequent treatment. In the laiid fights of Europe and x\merica in former years, deaths in the course of treatment as a. rule Avere most numerous in. the injuries of the abdomen, next in those of the chest. Hat viewed merely from the figures relating to deaths during treatment, those owing to the injuries of the lower and upper limbs Avere most numerous. This must be attributed to the fact that the actual number of injuries Avas greatest in these regions ; besides, on account of imperfect antiseptic methods, various infections resulted even in the Avounds of the loAver and upper limbs, Avhich frequently proved fatal. Thus no proper comparison can be made with similar injuries at the present day. Cases of recovery are 147 and the invalidings after recovery 28. In comparing the percentage of the folloAving three results ; ' sub- sequent deaths' during treatment amount tol5.87, 'recovered' to 70.67, and 'invalidings after recovery ' to 13.4(j. Let us compare this Avith