INJUEIES OF THE LOWEE EXTREMITY. 170 Fig 12. she 1 f ragmeiit extracted, from the bottom of the wonnd in the lef c thigh. right middle finger became narrow by grannlation, but tbe blind wound of the thigh still evacuated pus abun- dantly, so a counter opening was made and a drainage tube introduced. On the 2-5 th, the wound of the middle finger healed completely by cicatrization, and the canal of "wound in the thigh became somewhat narrower, and pus discharge decreased. On December the 18th, the wound of the thigh became contracted, and there was a tendency to pus accumulation ; the temperature rose at times ; so in order to &cilitate the discharge it was enlarged by an incision. Still the granulation in the canal was unhealthy. A mixture of quinine and iron was internally adminis- tered, \dth strict application of antiseptic measures. Time elapsed without much change owing to the difficulty of healing the wound in the muscular substance; and by June next year, tQie walls of the canal of the wound indm-ated, and discharged thin pus. There was no prospect of healing the wound so the canal was cut open, and the indurated wall was scraped away. After that the granulation improved by degrees, and the canal became narrow and on August the 30th healed by a cicatrix 7 c. m. long. However, the left thigh became wasted measuring 3. 5 c. m. less in ch-cum- ference compared with that of the healthy side. "Walking proved difficult owing to the pain caused by the stretching of the cicatrized part. As for the right hand, the second joint of the index finger could not freely be bent or extended on account of the cicatri- cial adhesion and the middle finger lost the ungual phalanx, and the ring finger also had the second joint aukylosed, so that the grasping power was much weakened so as to make him unfit for service. Therefore he was dismissed from the service for life on December the 20th and is a pensioner according to the regulations. 256.—Grlancing wound of the right thigh with abrasion of the abdmen: —^K. Tokunaga, aged 31, a signal-man on board the Akagi in the cours of the Yellow sea engagement, was standing on the bridge, when a shell-fragment came flying on the bridge from the fore part of the starboard side. He was wounded on the right thigh. On examination, on the inner and posterior aspect of the upper thu-d of the right thigh was found a circular wound 13. 3 c. m. in diameter, in which the muscular substance had been deeply torn, so that the adductor magnus was severed and was hanging down. Located behind the above wonnd was a lacerated lesion of an iiTegu- lar square-foi-m 4.5 c. m. in length, the edges were everted, and at the bottom com-