193 INJURIES OF THE LOWEIl EXTREMITY. lifemorrage was profuse. Also on the outer side of the right thigh 8 shell-Hke iron fragments (probably broken pieces of the funnel casing. See figure No. 15) were found. Besides, the face had been struck by iron fragments, the bridge of the nose was broken and he was bleeding from the mouth and nostrils. He was un- conscious, breathing very weak, and pulse faint. Measures were immediately taken to stop the bleeding, and injection of ether or various other steps were resorted to, but the injured man at length succumbed at 1.40 p.m. the same day. 291. —Mutilation of the right leg with fracture of both humeri:—M. Hashimoto, aged 26, one of a gun-crew on the Fuso, at the battle of the Yellow sea, was resting on the port side of the funnel casing, when a shell pierced through the lower part of the funnel, and several iron fragments struck his right leg and carried it away at its middle part. At the same time he received compound fractures of the upper arms, both humeri being broken to pieces, and bleeding was profuse. The face was very pale, pulse weak, and intermittent, and he was in a comatose condition. The anterior and posterior tibial arteries were ligatured and the wounds on both arms filled with balls of gauze to stop the bleeding, antiseptic dressings were applied, and brandy was administered from time to time. In a short time the pulse became somewhat stronger, but at 11 p.m., the patient succumbed. (E) INJUEIES OF THE ANKLE JOINT. 292. —Contusion of the left ankle :—M. Shioda, aged 34, clerk of the Matsushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was assisting in the surgery on the lower deck, but as the surgery was blown to pieces by a hostile shell, he went to the surgery in the forepart of the upper deck and was attending to the wounded, when a SO.5 cm. hostile shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck, and damaged the decks and fittings. By one of the scattering splinters he received a contusion on the ankle joint, which was bandaged up, and he went on with his duties. Some days after, a swelling appeared on the outer-side of the joint, which prevented him from walking on account of pain, so constant applications of lead lotion were ordered, and by the 30th, the swelling had remarkably subsided; so tincture of iodine was painted on, and a bandage applied. On October 9th, the patient was completely recovered. 293. —Sprain of the ankle joints with burns of the face and the upper limb :—^M- Yamaguchi, aged 19, a signal-man on board the Matsushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was assigned to the post of messenger and was carry-