388 BUENS AND SCALDS. hands being injured, but other parts also, from toe burning of the clotlies. In degree, the burns were mostly su|3erlic):il, though in some ]'arfs, covered with clothes, it w;is otherwise. The burned surfaces were geijerally blackened by powder-fumes and unconsumed po\\ (ler. and the hair was much singed. In most of these cases, symptoms of shock were very pronounced, and the patients speedily collapsed. Ten of them died in tlie course of the dav on which they Avere Avounded, 5 on the next day, and -1 on the ord day. Where there was a transition fr()m the period of shock to that of reaction, the temperature rose in a remarkable iiianner, pain and thirst were intense, the patierjt became violent and traumatic delirium often ensued. The difficulty of treat- ing such a large number of patients was so great as to baffle descrip- tion: the suro-eons and nurses Avere eno-ao-ed in the task of dressino- the wounds day and night without rest, and yet felt they still could not do all that w^as needed, and Avere therefore too busy to keep the clinical details of the cases. We can not therefore ascertain the record of each patient, but, in its general features we are told by the surgeons Avh<^ Avitnessed the scene that the account above given is true. Patients of this class admitted to hospital numbered 43 in all. Of them 11 Avere only slightly burned and admitted to hospital for other and more serious Avounds. The remaining 32 persons entered hospital on account of burns alone, or of burns attended Avith other slighter Avounds. With regard to these 32 patients, Ave have a report furnish- ed by Fleet Surgeon S. T'suruda, Avho Avas engaged in I lie treatment of patients in the Sasebo Xaval Hospital, and from this report Ave can form a general idea of these cases. A ]Daragraph in the report says: — (Bums.) Tliongh the cases of the bnnis placed under the care of tlie liospital differed much in burnt area, they were almost all the same in other respects, I need ]iot therefore record the particulars of each case, but shall merely indicate tlie locali-