INJURIES OV THE FACE. 85 band, one 1 cm. square on the left eye-brow, and one on tbe upper lip ; one 1 cm. long and as deep as the periosteum, at a spot 5 cm. below the left patella ; one over the dorsum of the left foot, one on the dorsum of the right great toe. Besides, there was a contusion 1 cm. square above and inside the left knee, which gave pain in walking. Those wounds were washed with a carbolic lotion and foreign substances were extracted. Sublimate gauze was then applied, and the inflamed parts kept cool. On the 5th of the same month, he was removed to the transport Yedo-maru and admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 10th. On admission the bandages were for the first time changed, when the wound on tlie left wrist wa.s developing granula- tion, the other smaller ones had completely formed scabs. The same treatments were continued, and the case progressed favourably. On March 14th, he left the hospital to resume his service. 100. —Contused wound of the left ear :—Y. Kamada, aged 32, one of the crew of the stern-gun of the Akagi, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was engaged in firing upon the enemy, and was standing on the fort of the stern-gun in the rear of the upper deck, when a shell exploded piercing the shield of the gun. He sustained, from one of the fragments of the shell, a lacerated wound 1.5 cm. long, above and in front of the auricle. A flap hung from the lacerated part and the wound bled profusely. The hcemorrhage was stopped by twisting the vessels; and the flap united by adhesive plaster and corrosive gauze applied. Wiieu the bandage was removed on the 7th day, the flap had healed by the first union. He had on the 4th day completely recovered. 101. —Contused wound of the left ear and back of hand:—1!. Kimura, aged 23, a servant to the Captain of the Saikyo-maru, in the battle of the Yellow sea, went on to the bridge carrying a message for the Captain. He finished his business, and on his way back was just passing the entrance of the ward-room, when suddenly two 30.5 cm. shells from the enemy rebounded from the sea on the starboard side, knocking through the ward-room on the upper deck and exploding on the port side of the ward- room. The fragments of the shell and wood were driven about, and some of them struck him on his left ear and liand. On examination, there were two contused wounds : one, 4 shaped, 3 cm. in length at tlie middle of the back of the left pinna ; and the other 6 m.m. on the back of the left hand. Both lesions were super- ficial, so that the bleeding was slight. Iodoform gauze was applied ; and after a week the lacerated margins on the hand sloughed while that of the e ir w as slightly inflamed