360 LACEUATED AXD MUTILATED WOUXDS. the accident were inquired into and a survivor belonging to iSTo. 9 gun, o-ave the followino^ account : — The starboard battery of the lower deck (in the Matsushuua), that is, where No. 9 gnu was placed had ceased firhig, as they hxd received the order, " suspend firing" and the crew of the starboard battery were waiting their orders near their respective gnns. I was then standing by the right side behind No. 9 gan about 2 yards off, when a tremendous sound that seemed to shake the whole ship to pieces arose some- where about the fore part of the port batteries, at the same time causing a terrific shaking of the ship. Until this time, no explosion smoke had been seen, but at the forepart of the starboard batteries, shell fragments and something like a mass of earth fell like a shower of rain or hail, and they were seen to strike the under surface of the upper deck and the ship's side, and I had scarcely said, " halloo," when some shell-fragments hit my head and face, at the same time something like a mass of earth struck my shoulders and chest. From the wound of the head, blood was running down. Then again, there arose a dreadful sound, when suddenly the batteries of the lower deck were entirely wrapped in flames, and at that moment, my body was thrown up by the explosion gas, and fell in front of the clothes shelves 2 yards off between the back of the battery and the gun room. The shock made me feel as if my breast walls had been broken, and I vainly tried to stand up, but I could not see a yard be- fore my face for flames and smoke, and felt as if I had been breathing hot ashes in the coalbunker. I now gave up all hope, and waited for death, but finding my breath did not stop, tried to run out to the upper deck, and came to the second hatch which led from the back of No. 9 gun to the upper deck, that is, to the steps above the engine-room. I could not see clearly, but tliere was a crowd crying and struggling to get up the gangway ; and so I was waiting for my turn, when flames again began to issue from the starboard entrance threatening to burn my hands, head, and face. I then hastend back to the first hatch in front of the battery, and trying to run out, came to where I thought No. 7 gun stood. At this moment, I was again buried in flames, and in an agony of suflbcation, turned twice or thrice, staggered down, and again resigned myself to my fate with ; the words " I shall now die ! ". Once more I made np my mind to try my hardest to escape, and rushed towards the gun-port, which to my great joy I found to be that of No. 7 gun. Thanking Heaven that I had escaped once more from the jaws of death, I mustered up all my courage, palled my- self together, climbed out by the barrel, along the ship's side, and so got cu' upon the