INJURIES OF TEE UPPER EXTREMITY. 142 Naval Hospital by a transport setting siil on tlie 19tli. At tlie time of admission, the right upper arm was considerably swollen, and the wound of the lower part of the arm was suppurating. All the other wounds presented favourable conditions. The wound above the right elbow was scraped with a sharp spoon and the free pieces of bone extracted. The arm was dressed with wet carbolic gauze ; other wounds were sealed with dry corrosive gauze. Burns of the face were of the first degree, though some parts were of the second degree and sterilized olive oil was painted on tliem. On October 1st, the abrased wounds and burns on the head and face dried up. Wounds of the npper lip, upper arm, forearm, and on the foot, became smaller, and the pas discharge nearly ceased. The lacerated wound above the right elbow gradually threw out healthy granulation and the swelling of the arm subsided. By the 11th of the same month, the abrased wounds of the several parts had all healed, except the lacerated one above the elbow, which, however, had now grown shallow and small by the gradual development of granulation, still there was a discharge of pus from it and on being probed the bone was reached; but the progress was favour- able and by the 24th of November, it was completely healed. But the right elbow joint ankylosed in the position of 90 degrees ; and it could not be extended, even with forcible efforts, beyond 95 degrees. By local hot bath, and active and passive move- ments, the joint was gradually extended to 140 degrees. But the movement could not be perfectly restored, and he was discharged from duty for life on March 16th, 1895 and left the hospital. He Avas granted a pension according to the regulations. (See illustration.) 208.—Blind wounds of the right arm with lesion of the bones:—K. Wakikawa, aged 20, a servant to the Captain of the Hiyei, in the course of the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was working at the pump of the ventilator in the 8rd quarter of the lower deck, when an enormous shell of the enemy exploded in the ward-room in the 5tli quarter. One of the shell fragments inflicted blind wounds on the right upper and fore-arm. As all the medical staff in the ship were killed by this same shell, the wounds had to be dressed for temporary relief by his mates, and it was not until the ship arrived at the station near Cape Choppeki next morning, that he could be properly treated by a surgeon from another ship. Condition of the wounds ;—In front of the upper part of the right arm an irregular lacerated wound 2.5 cm. in diameter and 6 cm. in depth was found, which took an upward course towards the inner and lower part of the surgical neck of the humerus ; by digital