363 LACERATED AND MUTILATED \YOU.\DS. the black dot (5) received ;i mutilated wound of the alodomen ; (6) a perforating- Avound on I he loins attended with fracture ; (7) a mutilat- ed wound of the lower-half of the body ; (S) partial mutilation of the chest and abdomen ; (11) mutilation of the whole body ; (12) a muti- lated wound of the abdomen; (14) contused lacerated wounds, and burns on several parts of the body ; (15) mutilated wounds of the left thigh, and the right leg; (16) compound fracture of the face and the base of cranium. These 9 persons Avere all killed on the spot, and as already said, only the chief AA^ound or Avounds recognized as the cause of death being as a rule given, thei-e must of course ha^■e been not a fcAv cases which Avere actually attended with other Avound or Avounds. (9) Having sustained a lacerated wound of the hand, AA'as placed on a large table used as an operating table and Avas receiving treatment, Avhen he sustained a large perforating Avound at the upper part of the right thigh accompanied Avith fracture, and a burn extending from the gluteal region to the lower extremities. A fcAV days later, he became delirious, and died in 15 days. (10) A person on the right side of the operating table Avas just going to apply a bandage to the Avounded man, AA'hen he was thrown on to loAver deck several feet ott", and sustained a dislocation of the right ankle joint and a fracture of the outer malleolus, accomi)anied Avith burns on tlie face and hand, and with the rapture of the tympanic memljrane on each side. He Avas hoAA^ever able to return to service after recovery. (13) This Avas a case of compound frncture on the upper part of the right leg, Avith several other contused Avounds on the head, &ce, and right thigh, and a large lacerated wound just above the left knee ; also, a burn covering the AAdiole face. Furtlier, though it Avas not stated in the clinical history, the membrana tympani on both sides Avere ruptured. Some time after, delirium set in and the injured person succumbed 4 days after. (17)