95 IXJURIES OF THE FACE. presented a crescent of a dark reddish colour and the sight was greatly obscured. Three days aftei-, the effusion had much abated, and on the 23rd it was almost entirely absorbed to the consequent revival of sight. Thougli the abrasion of the upper arm, was liealed; the margin of the lacerated lesion in the middle part of the arm, presented a sloughy condition witli discharge of pus, and the granulation of the wound was of a dull nature. Iodoform was sprinkled on, and a carbolic gauze applied. On October 1st, the abrasion of the eye-lid healed by scabbing, and the effusion of blood in the anterior chamber was completely absorbed, but the patient complained of epiphora and mucoe volitautes when he looksed steadily at anything. On the 3rd. the slough of the wound on the upper arm had quite come off, and granulation developed, so as to make the surface even ; and tlie pus discharge had decreased. The vision being now-g^, there still existed mucoe vohtantes. The eye bandage was tlierefore replaced by an eye-shade. On the 27th, the wound of the upper arm healed by cicatrization and the injured eye exhibited a slight external strabismus, but as tlie sight was almost entirely restored, treatment was discontinued. 109.—Contusion of the left eye and contused wound of face:—T. Takano, aged 26, a junior engineer of tlie Tenryu was at the time of the bombardment of the eastern forts, Liukung island on February 11th, 1895, on duty in the engine room, wlien a hostile shell exploded against tlie gear of tlie No. 2 port side-gun on tlie waist of the upper deck and thus broke the deck plank. Some of the wooden splinters fell down into the engine room, and inflicted a contused wound 4.5 cm. long and 1 cm. wide reaching to the periosteum over the part below the left frontal eminence extending through the middle of the eye-brow to the left upper lid. The margins of the wound were raggedly torn and there was a slight lioemorrhage, the upper and lower lids being remarkably swollen. On examination of the eye, an effusion of blood under the conjunctiva and into the anterior chamber was noticeable, tlie cornea was cloudy, so that the sight was entirely lost. The right eye presented no striking cliange but a slight congestion. Next, there was an abrasion 3 cm. square below the left malar arch, in which many tiny wooden splinters like pins were found sticking. These being extracted, the wounds were Avashed with carbolic lotion, and then corrosive gauze was applied. On the same day, the injured officer was taken on board the hospital ship Kobe-maru. On the 13th : the swelling of the eye-lids had somewhat subsided, but the conjunctiva produced a marked swelling and the cornea remained cloudy. On the 14tli: the wound on the cheek healed under the scab, and tliat