256 OF ATTACK ON WEI-HAI-WEI. The ratio of the killed and wounded in each vessel, with the number of the shells received, ^vas highest in the Tenryu (11.00 killed or wounded per shell); next came the Tsukushi (8.00); next the Yoshino, Fuso, and Katsuragi (7.00 each); next the Mats u shim a (3.00); then in the Luchotsai fortress (2.33); the Akitsushima (2.00); No. 9 torpedo-boat (0.62), while shells that hit the Hashidate, Naniwa, Takao, Musashi, and No. 6 torpedo-boat were harmless. Two of the shells also that struck the Yamato caused no casualty. The number of killed and wounded depends iirstly on the explosion or non- explosion of the shell, secondly on the place hit by a shell, Avhether the pkmks, gun barrels, gun shields and other implements were or were not smashed to pieces and throAvn about. The casualties caused by the explosion of shells were on the Akitsushima, Fuso, Katsuragi, Tenryu, and in the Luchotsai fort, while in tlie Matsusliima, Yoshino, and Tsukushi, they were caused by broken planks or gun shields, and in No. 9 torpedo-boat by the bursting of the boiler. 'i"he relation of killed and wounded to the place struck by shell will further be shown in the following two tables. Of the vessels struck by shells, the Hashidate had the cover of her fore torpedo tube damaged by a fragment of shell. The lower deck of the Naniwa was pierced in the waist, but happily none of the crew of either vessel sustained any injury ; the Takao merely had the middle part of the main-rigging rent asunder by a shell; the Yamato received two shells, one on the machine-gun on the ship's bridge, and one in the starboard galley ; but fortunately, they did not explode but fell over- board, together with the broken iron and wooden splinters, so that no person was injured by flying pieces ; the Musashi practically escaped injury, for she only had a shell fly over her, tearing the starboard main-brace on its way ; No. 6 torpedo-boat had its boiler ro<)m pierced by a machine gun-shot, but none of the creAv were hurt.