404 TEEATMENT OF THE WOUJ^DED. surgeries were all in unsuitable locations. These Avere unavoidable circumstances, but there are still other points to which further atten- tion should be called. With shell-wounds sustained in parts covered with clothes, a soiled piece of cloth, is very frequently found remain- ing within, and there were not a few cases in which these foreign sub- stances were taken out in the hospital, to which the patients were ad- mitted many days after injury. This must have been one of the causes which promoted suppuration, and great care should be taken to ex- amine the wounds well with the fino;er lest such foreio-n substances be left behind; for as the inside of the wounds is very irregular, the cloth pieces can not be washed out by mere irrigation with an antiseptic so- lution. Again, we have seen that, on account of the loss of vital func- tion, the wound surface can not resist even a few micro-organisms, if once admitted. The surrounding tissues should therefore be strictly dis- infected, care being taken at the same time that the disinfection should cover a larger area than that which is protected by dressing matQrials. The inside of the wound can not be expected to be perfectly, cleansed during the confusion of fighting, so if the quantity required be not so large as to cause poisoning, a solid antiseptic like iodoform may conveniently be sprinkled into the wound. Next, materials for dressing may be preserved wnth care, but as many days must necessari- ly elapse before they are actually used, and as their absolute purity can not be assured, there is a need of having on each ship some handy apparatus for disinfecting them immediatel}' before use. It is a fact too well known to need mentioning here, that every thing that touches the wound should be clean; still it is well to insist on it once, for fear it should be neglected in the confusion of future actions. The greatest difficulty that was experienced in the way of treatment, was the management of patients suffering from extensive burns over the body.