459 KAK'KE. the comparative insufficiency of other nutritious food, they become more liable to the attacks of kak'ke. No matter how cold the tem- perature may be, severe kak'ke will constantly make its appearance, whenever a large quantity of rice is taken in the absence of other diet rich in nitrogenous and fatty ingredients. The aforementioned pre- valence of kak'ke in Niigata prison is an example of this. Niigata being situated in the north of our country is a very cold region, the epidemic broke out in the month of January, when the temperature is at its lowest and just at that time the ground was covered with snow several feet deep. The island of Shimushu at the northern ex- tremity of the Kuriles foces Kamtchatka and washed as it is by the cold cvu'rent of the ]>ehring Strait, is the coldest region in our Empire. Up to the year 1884, some 100 aborigines lived on the island, but in that year they were all removed by the order of the government to the island of Shikotan and for several years, Shimushu remained in a deserted state. However, many years ago, certain adventurous per- sons proposed to undertake the colonisation of the island, and in 1895, 6 persons passed the winter there as an experiment. In the coldest month, i.e. in January, kak'ke made its appearance and affected 4 persons, 3 of whom fell victims to the disease. According to the information furnished by the survivors, the only food they had left was rice, " j»/.so," and salt; and being prevented by lieavy snows, from going out either for hunting or fishing, they were obliged to kill their pet dogs for food for their sick men. It is not difficult to imagine the quality of their diet. Again in the summer of 1896 a number of men and women emigrated to the island. They fared well till November, but at the end of that month, 2 persons were seized with kak'ke; in December 3 more, and from January numerous cases appeared in consequent succession. Out of 37 men above 15 years of age, 26 were affected of whom six died; and out of 11 women