488 DISEASES OF THE RESPIKATORT SYSTEM. vention of phthisis, and their strict observance, we do not unfortunate- ly see the disease brought under control. Its causes may of course be various, but we are compelled to attribute it mainly to the narrow living space on board ship and torpedo boats. It is well known, the space allotted to the crews at present is exceedingly narrow. This is especially the case with the steerage whei'e men sleep, for on a com- prehensive investigation, we find that the average space occupied by each petty officer and seaman is some 102 cubic feet. This is only one-sixth of that allotted to the soldier in the army, who gets about 653 cubic feet per man. It is impossible in the steerage of a warship or torpedo-boat, to make up for the lack of space by means of artificial ventilation. To thoroughly ventilate a space of this kind will cause draughts, and as such ventilation is impossible, a diminution of injurious effects is all that can be expected from ventila- tion. The rooms on board a torpedo-boat furnish a more striking instance. To work, to talk, to dine, to sleep in narrow places like those on board a torpedo-boat, who can doubt that it is a great cause of the spread of the disease under consideration ? Again, on board a ship, not only is ventilation compai'atively imperfect, but also the admission of sunlight is very limited, in some places no light being allowed at all, and as a consequence, the floors, scrubbed with sea- water, require much time before drying. Such being the unhealthy conditions on board a ship or boat, the virus that flies about from the breath of the patient, or the dried virus coming from the spittle with which clothes or other articles may be soiled, will find most favoura- ble conditions of existence. How great the peril is of those who crowd together in such places, the best suited for the preservation of the virus can well be imagined! The fact that the sea-water does not easily destroy the life and virulence of the tuberculous bacilli, but on the contrary, is favourable to them, has been well established by