INMCRIES OF THE UPPER EXrEEMTTY. U9 porarv clressing beiug applied ou board, the patient was trausfened to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 20th. At the time, the margins of the wound were everted presenting a shape like a flower, and of a dark purpiish colour with sloughs at several spots ; the granulation at the bottom was unfavourable. Iodoform was sprinkled on and a wet carbolic dressing applied. On the 29th, burrows, each some 6 cm. long were produced beneath the skin, one above and one below the w^ound, and as the escape of pus was obstructed they were cut open on October oth, the pus discharge decreased, and granulation improved. By January 12th, 1895, the wound had com- pletely cicatrized. The movement of the injured limb, was not interfered with, but the grasping power was somewhat diminished. A protecting bandage was applied, and firecjuent active movements of the limb were ordered. Ou February 9th, he left the hosi ital and returned to duty. 220.—Non-perforated wound of the right fore-arm;—o. Okamura, aged 24, a guncrew of the Akagi, in the course of the battle of the Yellow sea, was by the side of 2so. 3 12 c. m. gun in the waist of the upper deck where he was engaged in firing, when a fragment of a broken shell came flying in from the starboard side and inflicted a wound on the right fore-arm. On examination, on the inner side of the middle of the right fore-arm a lacerated wound 2 cm. in diameter was found; the margins were irregularly torn attended by bleeding and pain. When probed, the wound measured 5 c. m. ruuuiug in a downward direction, and a foreign body w-as discovered, so the wound was incised and a shell fragment (see the figure 8.) was ex- tracted by a pair of bullet forceps; on further search in the wound along the inner Ijorder of the ulna, the periosteum was found to be strip- ped off. The blood vessels were ligatured and an anti- septic di-essing applied. On 18th, the margins of the wound became slightly swollen ; but treatment was con- Fig. S. Fragment of shell tinned as before. The patient was taken on board the extracted from the bottom of transport on the 19th, and conveyed to the Sasebo Naval the wound of the forearic. Hospital on the 21st. As there was a tendency to accu- mulation of pus in the wound a counter opening was made below the wound canal of the fore-arm, a drainage tube introduced and an antiseptic dressing apphed. Ou the 28th the granulation in the canal protruded from the wound orifice presenting a pale appearance, it was rubbed over with nitrate of silver and an iodoform dressing app- lied. On October 6th, the pus discharge from the wound decreased considerably, the