THE BATTLE OF YALtj. 12 finding tlie fore deck also filled with thick gas and hlinding all around, I proceeded along the first hatch toward the after part of the starboard side and narrowly es- caped falling down to the lower deck, as there was a gap produced hy the perforation of 30.5 cm. shell on the starboard side, which one was unable to see owing to the gas ; when I reached the back part of the officers' kitchen, the clouding smoke cleared off gradually and I discovered that our ship was navigating as nsual, but a great many persons with burns came to the officers' room and captain's cabin, some walking and some being helped by others. As these burns were severe, the cries and groans Avere pitiable. Surgeon-General Kawamnra Avas laid on a bench in the officers' room Avith a spinal concussion and contusion of the ankle.joints but fortunately Chief-Surgeon Ogisawa, Assistant-Surgeon Abe, and the medical attendants were safe. As the med- icines and surgical instruments were scattered here and there in disorder by the de- struction of the hospital, and finding that the greater number of the wounded were cases of burns, I determined to substitute oil for the engines for dressing the burns, and after consulting the chief-engineer, '^SltirasJihu' oil " was brought and used for dressing. It was no easy matter even to perform a temporary dressing for such numerous cases, yet we finished it Avith the assistance of Paymaster Fujita, who Avas occupying the position of Secretary of the Standing Squadron. Not only the admiral's cabin, the captain's cabin, and Avardroom, but also their bed rooms Avere filled Avith the Avounded, numbering above sixty ; the majority having burns on their whole bodies, and the cries and moans were beyond description. The total number of killed Avas thirty five, from a large shell of the Chinese man-of-Avar Chen Yuen, which exploded against our gun shield. As a result the ammunition for side guns heaped up on the lower deck, ignited, Lieutenant Shima, Sub-Lieutenant Ito, Midshipman Oishi, the gunners, and creAv of the side guns on both sides, magazine men, and carriers of Avounded amounting to one hundred in number were either killed or wounded from it. Preceding the above accident, a shell from the Ping Yuen passed the bottom of tlie torpedo-discharger on the port side, perforating a torpedo-officer's room, an iron plate on the entrance of the after engine room and oil tank, after striking the hospital on the lower deck ; then it burst against the gun-mounting of 32 cm., some pieces of the shell destroyed one of the medicine chests on the starboard side of the battery. As our ship received such severe damages and nearly lost its fighting power, it Avas ordered to return home for repairs and Admiral Ito Avith his staff" officers removed on board the Hashidate in the evening, and our sJiip turned its course towards home. On the