Ill INJURIES OF THE CHKSl" AXD BACK. cartilages, but witliout iujnring tlieiu. Besides, on the right zygomatic arch, and ou the upper part of the left upper arm small abrasions were found. Tlie wounds were dressed with snblimate gauze, and, on tlie 21st, the injured man was admitted to tlie Sasebo Naval .Hospital, where, by antiseptic measures, the wounds both of the cheek and arm liealed under scabs ou the 27th. The wound on tlie chest also developed a healthy granulation and progressed favourably, and on November 18th, the patient was recovered sufficiently to resume his duty. 141. —Blind wound of the back Matsushige, aged 23, one of tlie crew of No. 2 Q. F. gun of the Akagi, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was wounded on his back by one of the fragments of shell that came flying to the bridge from the starboard bow, while he was firing the port Q. F. gun on the bridge. On examination, tliere was a lacerated wound, 1 cm. in length and of somewhat smaller width, below tlie riglit scapular region. The margins were ragged, and, on probing tlie bottom, pieces of torn cloth Avere found lodged inside. These were extracted, and the wound was washed with carbolic lotion and a sublimate gauze applied. On the 19th, the dressing was changed, wlien a slight discharge of pus appeared ; on the 22nd, the discharge ceased ; by the 30th, the granulation developing from the bottom became smooth. On examining the part 8 cm. above tlie wound sometliing liard of the size of a bean was felt under the skin, altliough no pain was complained of. The part was cut open and a fragment of shell of G m.m. square (as shown in the illus- tration No. 4) was obtained. Tlie newly incised surface was „. , „ .^11, antiseptically treated and sealed witli adhesive plaster; it Fig. 4 Fra.gment of shell i J i ' extiMcted from the wound ],ea]ed by the first intention, while the wound of the on the back. back entirely healed with a small cicatrix on October 9th. 142. —Perforated wound of the back, blind wound of neck and lacerated wound of riglit upper arm:—M. Hamaguchi, aged 24, one of the crew of No. 1 Q. F. gun of the Akagi, in tlie naval engagement of the Yellow sea, while firing the gun at the starboard side on the bridge, was Avouiided ou the back, neck, and right upper arm by fragments of a shell which came from tlie stern and burst against the support of that gun. On examination, the wound of the back was found to be a grooved one 1.5 cm. deep, 18 cm. long, and 3 cm. wide, running from the middle of the infra-spinous region of tlie right scapula towards the left, and transversely crossing the spinal column. The bottom of the wound was as clean as if it had been scraped away. At 3 cm. from this wound, another wound