372 BUEXS AXD SCALDS. one-third of the whole body. The depths of the hanis bore no comparison to the ex- tent of their areas, being mostly in the 1st or 2nd degree. However, in the case of the above mentioned 4 patients, some of the barns were of the 3rd degree, and the right hand of patient No. 14 was slonglied all over. Appearances of the burned .surfaces. The patients of the Matsnshima were ad- mitted to the hospital on the 4th day after the battle, those of the Hiyei.on the 5th day, and those of the Yoshino on tlie 10th day. When first admitted, in the heavier cases, the faces were blackened, the liair singed, and the heads and faces covered all over with yellowish black scabs : the eyes closed, the nostrils blocked, the ears swol- len, and the months nnable to open easily. In the less severe cases, the faces were blackened and the eye-balls streaked, the limbs and triuiks were in some parts only reddened, while in other parts there were blisters, the epidermis being abrased here and there ; the blisters presented various colours (gray or dark red) according to the nature of the matter accumulated in them. Parts where the epidermis had been abrased, and the true skin was exposed, were sometimes smooth and of a pinkish hue, at other times, granular and red ; in a few cases the parts had already sloughed : in short, tlie burns differed in appearance according to their severity and locality. About a week after admission to the hospital, the dried scabs and destroyed epi- dermis had gradually come off, leaving the true skin exposed :—The blackened faces of a few days before were gradually becoming pale, or pinkish, or absolutely white with scarlet dots (extravasation) here and there; and the ears, eyes, nostrils, and mnith were gradually opening. (No remarkable change had yet taken place in the looks of the less serious cases). Daring the convalesaeut stage, the looks of the patients underwent a second change :—that is, the faces that had been pale at the period of suppuration gradually became light-brown, and then dark brown ; and those which had been flashed turned by degrees to a dark red. It will be remembered that each of these stages had its own colour, according to the severity of the burn as well as the constitution of the patient. In the limbs, in the more severe cases, there were left peculiar wavelike cicatrices bright and smooth, or keloid cicatrices dark red and ridged, w'hile with slight cases only light brown cicatrices were left. Cicatrices and deformities. There were four cases in which remarkable cicatrices and deformities resulted. One (No. 5) lost the grasping power of the left hand, owing to the cicatrix of the fingers ; one (No. 12) lost the larger part of both ear-lobes, and had all the fingers of the right hand stiffened, owing to the adhesion of the extensor