13 THE BATTLE OF YAIjt. ISth, a temporary hospital was establislied in the captain's cabin, and the medicines and instruments, which were scattered about and undamaged were collected, but as tliere was not enough, cotton was used for lint; lime stored for ship's use and shiin- .shiine oil for engines were used to make a liniment, brandy for the officers' table was given to patients ; clothes of officers and men were also given to patients Not only such important medicines, as anodynes and stimulants, were wanting, but the dispensing apparatus were nearly destroyed, so that under these circumstances, patients were moaning witli agony everywhere, and being so numerous, were obliged to wait a very long time before their turn for the dressing of their wounds arrived, although we did our utmost to console them. We ourselves had no leisure time to take regular meals, and contented ourselves by sipping condensed milk. Even working so hard, it took us from 7 a.m. till 10 p.m., to get through with dressing their wounds. Ten of the persons severely burned died on the 18th, five on the 19tli, and three on tlie 20tli, making eighteen in all. But owing to the numerous patients with burns remaining, we could not sleep even for a short time at night, and this deficiency of sleep, and poor supply of food so fatigued us tliat we were only able to perform our services by taking stimulants. We got a very great help from the baudruen, who assisted the medical attinidants, and lightened more or less their work by watching the patients. On the 19th, the dressings and medicines were diminishing, and we found they would not hold out much longer ; altliough we expected to reach Port Sasebo oil the next day, yet it was uncertain, as the change of weather and severe damage of the ship might cause delay, so we economized the consumption of medicines as much as possible. As we anticipated, aliout midnight some derangement occurred to tbe engine and only the half side of the engine could be used. The speed decreased to half and an adverse wind with liigli sea made it still worse. Every time the wind raged, sea water overflowed on botli sides tln-ougli the damaged holes. The patients who were complaining at not arriving at their destination as sooji as they expected, were discouraged by perceiving the death of tlieir comrades; it was difficult for us to conceal it from them and we could not help shedding tears. On the 20th, when we observed the top of the mountain ranges in Hizen Province, the wind and waves got calmer and the speed increased again. All persons on board the ship now felt more easy and the patients were encouraged by hearing Port Sasebo was near at hand. Approaching the port, a short time after, signals were made for signal stations in Hejiki (Hirato island) and Cape Kogosaki, by which preparations and arrangements for litters, porters, and boats for patients, were requested of the Sasebo naval hospital.