EXTEEIC FEVER. 426 warrant officers inclusive) shall be sprinkled with 20 per cent carbolic solution, and dried. 3. —Clothing belonging to the crew shall undergo steam disinfection together with the sacks. 4. —Bedding, curtains, and carpets shall undergo steam disinfection. 5. —Things kept in stores shall be taken out to a fixed place, and be exposed to the sun. However, weapons, navigation instruments, and such stores shall be excepted. G.—The water-tanks shall first be painted with a 10 per cent lime-solution, which is to be wiped off after 24 hours, and then a quantity of water being poured in, if the water does not present alkaline reaction after 24 hours, the tanks may be put in use. 7. —The upper and lower decks, kitchens, bilge, and closets shall also be painted with a 10 per cent lime-solution, which is to be washed off after 24 hours. 8. —Walls and ceilings of the habitable parts of the ship shall be wiped with cloths dipped in a 20 per cent solution of carbolic acid, and be dried. 9. —Store rooms, having their contents taken out, shall be sprinkled on their walls with one in 1,000 corrosive sohition and be dried. 10. —After these measures, strict observation will be kept for 2 weeks whether any cases of the disease occur again. For the purpose of having the above steps carried out, the ship was ordered on Decemljer 6th to proceed to the Nagasaki quarantine station. Following is the report on the condition of the ship's disinfection. On December 6th, 1895, the Yamato arrived at the Mekami quarantine station in Nagasaki and quarantine officers came on board the ship, and consulted about tlie disinfection of the ship. We were told that the office then had not enough hands for carrying on the thorough disinfection of a warship, and that also the men were not well acquainted with the method of disinfecting a ship's bottom and water-tanks. Accordingly it was agreed that the places most difficult for the process should be taken in hand by our own crew, and the rest come under the charge of the office. At 9 a.m., ou the 7th, half the hands of the ship landed to undergo disinfection, they carried with them, clothes-bags, utensils, hammocks, luggage, shoes, &c., and at the same time they carried lunch with tliem. Meanwhile, disinfection was commenced in the ship. The ward-room was sprinkled with a five per cent solution of carbolic acid, and the decks, ceilings, walls, tables and chairs, etc., having successively been