187 INJURIES OF THE LOWER EX'IREMITY. ?kin and muscles at t'le wonnd-apertnres slongliel, and pns escaped out of the canal, the temperature fluctuating at 38°. 5 C. The dressing was daily renewed, and the patient was on the 20th admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Examined at the hospital, the sloughs having almost entirely come oft", the margins of the wounds were found to be clean ; but the apertures of the wound had become somewhat larger than they had been at the time of injury, and pus was discliarged from both apertures. Tlie wounds were washed with solution of carbolic acid, a drainage tube introduced, and an iodoform bandage applied. On the 28th, the pus discharge decreased, and healthy granulation developed; the canal became gradually narrower, so the drainage-tube was replaced by gauze. By March 10th, the canal filled with granulation and the communication between the entran3e and exit wounds was closed. On April 2nd, the wound on the inner side of the leg formed scabs, while that on the outer still retained a very small granulating surface. Nutrition of the body was somewhat impaired and slight symptoms of anjemia set in, so a mixture of quinine and iron was internally given. By May 3rd, the wound was almost healed, but on walking, a pain of a stretching nature was felt in the leg. This day the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. Progress continued favorable, and the patient left the hospital on June 16th, completely recovered, and returned to service. 284.—Simple fracture of the right fibula with contusion of the right forearm :—-M. Ogasawara, aged 21, a seaman belonging to the Hiyei in the course of the engagement of the Yellow sea, was standing at the post of relieving tackle in the cabin on the lower deck, when an enormous shell exploded in the next ward- room, and smashed the partition of the said room and the deck. He was struck by some of the scattered wooden splinters and received contused wounds on the right forearm and hand, and on the outer side of the right leg. As all the medical staff on board the ship were killed by the same explosion, he was temporarily dressed by his comrades, and was properly treated by a surgeon from another ship the next morning, when the vessel arrived at the rendezvous near Cape Choppeki. On examination, on the outer side of the npper third of the right leg, was found a subcutaneous extravasation, where it was somewhat swollen, and gave severe pain, especially in the deeper part on pressure. Crepitation felt at the neck of the fibula evinced the fracture of that bone. Also there existed pain and slight swelling at the outer side of the middle of the right forearm, and at the roots and backs of the