BLIND AXD PENETRATING WOUNDS. 322 not to have been injured. Besides these, thei-e were seven cases of perforating wounds of the chest, all of which resulted in instant death so that we need not discuss about the existence of emphysema. To sum up, the penetrating and the perforating wounds of the thoracic cavity are 13 in all (cases of blind wounds of the thoracic Avail in which the iron-pieces stopped at the ribs, are not counted in this number). Subtract from these seven cases of instant death, and there remain 6 cases. Of these 6 cases, 2 seemed to have escaped injury to the lung, and of the remaining 4 cases of lung injury, 3 were affected with subcutaneous emphysema. Emphysema is rarely met with in military surgery. Neudorfer says he met with only one in 20U cases of penetrating and perforated wounds of the chest, and Otis mentions no more than 38 out of 8,715 cases of the same wounds in the lungs which occurred during the Civil war in America. For in rifle wounds, the bullets have as a rule, a high velocity, so that not only do they frequently make perforated wounds, but even those bullets Avhich are weakened in- velocity and only strong enough to inflict penetrating wounds, enter into the lungs owing to their shape, which is peculiarly convenient for penetration, and produce gaping Avounds in the lungs as Avell as the chest wall. They thus make it easy for the air to escape through the Avounds, and hence it is rarely that emphysema is caused by bullet Avounds. On the contrary, siiell-fragments are as a rule weak in velocity, so that not a few of them have exhausted themselves as soon as they have broken the ribs: also, owing to the irregularit}^ of their shapes, they are often unable even to pass through the broken bones. Thus, in Avounds from shell-fragments, the lungs are hurt mostly by broken pieces of the bone itself, and accordingly, the Avound orifice of the lungs and that of the chest Avail do not correspond Avith each other. Hence the air Avill probably be hindered from escaping and thus aa'c get