BURNS. 219 the gas escaped from the next gnu, inflicting on him hnrns of tlie 2acl degree on tlie left half of the face, and tlie ear of the same side ; also a slight huni on the left conjunctiva. To the hnrns oiled lint was applied, and Loracic lotion to the eye. In course of time, the congestion of the conjunctiva gradually subsided, and the burns were completely healed on August Gth by a new growth of epidermis. 353. —Burns of the right forearm and back of the hand:—K- Yamanaka, aged 2G, a bandsman of the Matsushiraa, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was, as a carrier of the wounded, standing in the fore part of the upper deck, when a 30. 5 c. m. hostile shell burst in the forepart of the lower deck. Instantly the shell set on fire the abundant powder of the side-guns, the flanie of explosion coming up to the upper deck, he received burns of the 2ud degree on the right forearm and back of the hand. It was dressed with oiled lint and healed on October Brd. 354. —Burns of the left forearm:—K- Kimura, aged 31, a seaman of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was steering the rudder-wheel on the quarter- deck, when an enormous hostile shell exploded in the ward-room at the rear of the lower deck, by the shock he was thrown down through the sky-light of the ward-roon, where fire had burst out just before, so he received a burn on the left forearm. On examination, the burned part had blistered to a lai'ge size and the surrounding skin was congested. The blisters were opened to give vent to the serum, and the part was dressed with wet boracic gauze. On the 25th, sloughed epidermis came off and the true skin exposed. Boracic ointment was applied and the burns were gradually covered with new epidermis, and completely healed on October 2nd. 355. —Burns of the palm of the right hand and contusion of the left buttock :—I. Hamada, aged 24, a member of the magazine party of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was conveying shells in the fore part of the lower deck, when a hostile shell burst on the same deck. At the moment, tlie powder provided for the side-guns exploded, by tlie flan:e of the powder he received burns of the 1st degree on the palm of the right hand, contusion of the left gluteal region by a wooden splinter. To the burns oiled lint was applied, and spirits of camphor to the contusion. On the 24tli, he had completely recovered. 856.—Burns of the back and abrasion of the scalp :— C. Murata, aged 24, a member of the magazine party of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, Avas hauling Tip shells from the magazine in the fore part, when a hostile shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck. At the same time, the ammunition provided