KAK'KE. 457 havinsf it. How can we account then for the fact that our soldiers are the only sutFerers from kak'ke on the islands? They are stationed in the old castle which being located on a hill is the healthiest site in Shuri, the chief town of the islands. But we find that the natives, owing to a scanty production of rice and barley, live on peas, other grains and pork, and that our soldiers stationed there use rice mainly as food, we must attribute the cause of kak'ke to the diet. At the ordinary school of the same island where young natives are educated, the students are made to lodge in the dormitory, and were formerly given rice for their daily food, and a severe outbreak of kak'ke was the result. This must be attributed to the change of diet for these students were natives who up to that time in common with their families had never suffered from the disease. A rumour was afloat that virus of the disease was propagated by visitors as the teachers of the school and others, but it was quite groundless, for none of them happened at that time to have had kak'ke. Besides these, there are many analogous instances, for example the defence force of Tsu?>hima isLmd is composed of men enlisted in the island, and there, as in the Loochoo islands, owing to a scanty production of rice, it is very rarely eaten and consequently, the natives had never had an outbreak of kak'ke. However, when they enlisted as soldiers, they were often attacked by the disease. Again in January 1899 kak'ke suddenly broke out and raged at the prison of Niigat;i, and from the loth of the same month to tiie end of March about 400 persons out of some 1,000 prisoners, were so seriously affected with the disease that they had to be admitted to hospital. This was apparently a very strange phenomenon, now.that kak'ke had become a rare disease in prisons since the introduction of the barley rice diet and accordingly an investigation was made by despatching a committee from the Navy medical department to the said prison. As a result of the investiga-