458 KAK'KE. tion, it was found that on account of dearth in that region and con- sequent rise in the price of barley and rice, cheap rice imported from China etc. liad been bought since December of the previous year and used in place of the native barley and rice. As no other reason could be found for the sudden outbreak we must attribute it to the chano-e in diet. At the same time it was found that the disease attacked the prisoners in a larger number, who were supplied with " white Chinese rice," while it atfected in a smaller number those with " red Chinese rice." This goes in some degree to prove the experiments made by Dr. Forderman at Madura, and by Dr. Eikmann at Batavia. The red and white rice differ in their respective ingredients as their appearances do; the red compared with the white has a larger cpiantity of fat and albumen. At the said Niigata prison, from the March 1899, barley and rice were used again, which resulted in the gradual disappearance of kak'ke in the prison. The apparent frequency of kak'ke in places which were hot, damp, and crowded and where it affected a large number of persons at a time, led many to infer that the disease is caused by the contagion of some virus or micro-organism. P)Ut we think otherwise. It is true that kak'ke is very scarce in winter, and very abundant in summer, and also that it occurs far more frequently in crowded places. Our explanations of these facts are as follow: in the hot season every body is relaxed and consequently disinclined to take exercise; hence the appetite diminishes. It is a well known fact among ourselves that in such a season we Japanese are apt to prefer plain diet to meat and other fatty things. Besides, in summer, Hsh are ]nuch used among us, and as they are liable to putrefaction if not eaten at once they become so dear that ordinary people can not afford to obtain fresh fish. The Japanese therefore often satisfy themselves with so-called " clia- zuke-meshi " (a plain boiled rice mixed with tea), and thus owing to