THE BOMBAKDMEXTS OF TANGCHOW. 47 8.—About 2.42 p.m., ii 12 cm. shell ( ?) came from the starboard side tind tore off the fore mast derrick. At the time, three of the gun cre\v in the forepart of the upper deck were injured by splintered wooden pieces. Besides the above mentioned, several shell marks were left on the bowlight stand, fore-mast, flag-staff, chief engineer's room, funnel -casing, main mast, ventilator and funnel. The}^ were all certainly •caused by shells from small calibre guns or by shell fragments. 3.-THE BOIVIBARDIVIENTS OF TANGCHOW. Tangcliow was three times bombardetl ; the first bombardment being made by the Yoshhio, Naniwa, and Akitsushima of the First Flying Squadron, on January 18th and 19th, 1895. The enemy's forts repHed to the bombardment with guns of small calibre and about 60 pounders. One of the 60 pounder shells, fired from a fort on Tang- cliow promontory, flew over the Yoshino, but all the rest fell short of our ships which sustained no damage. The second bombardment was attempted by the Tenryu and Kaimon, belonging to the Third Flying Squadron, on the 26th of the same month ; the Kaimon then received two shells : the one was a bomb-shell which burst over the ship, slightly tearing the ship's flag ; the other was a shell from an eight cm. field-gun which struck the upper part of the after-davit of the starboard galley, and, there exploding, broke the iron-band of the davit stay, cut off the boat-haul and injured the galley ; at the same time one of its fragments grazed past the chest of a gunner at No. 5 gun, tearing his clothes, but doing no farther injurj'. The third bombardment of Tangcliow was made by the three battle ships ; Tenryu, Yamato, and Musaslii on the 21st of February. The enemy's forts replied to the attack with field guns and 12 cm. guns ; some of the shots fell in front or rear of the Musaslii, but none struck any of our ships. 4.-THE ATTACK ON WEI-HAI-WEl. From January 30th, 1895 the entire force of our Combined Squa- dron with the torpedo-flotillas belonging to them, made several attacks on Wei-hai-wei. The forts of Lieuku.ng and Zhih islands assisted by