103 INJURIES OP THE FACE. 120. —K. Iwamoto, aged 2G, Ijeloiigiug to the crew of the starboard Hotclikiss gun of the Itsnkusliima, was in the same battle as above, on tlie fort of the Hotchkiss gan of.the uppermost deck, when the shock of tiring the 32 c. m. gun, ruptured the left tympanic membrane. By using the speculum, a small perforation was recognized in the middle of the membrane. There was congestion around the perforation, and the hearing was slightly impaired. An antiseptic cotton wool plug was stuffed into the meatus. The case recovered on October 19th. 121. —K. Takeda, aged 21, belonging to the crew of starboard Hotchkiss gun of the Itsakushima was, in the same battle as above on the fort of the Hotchkiss gun on the starboard upper deck, when by tlie shock of firing the 1 2 c. m. side-gun on the lower deck lie sustained rupture of left tympanic membrane. On examination with the speculum, a grain sized perforation was found on the membrane. The membrane was slightly congested, and the hearing a little impaired. An antiseptic cotton wool plug was stuffed in the meatus and the case healed on October 17th. 122. —^T. Hirai, aged 21, Midshipman of the Yoshino was in the same battle as above, acting as recorder of the engagement standing in the coning tower at the bow. By the vibration of firing the bow gun the rupture of the left tympanic membrane was sustained. On the 20th of the same month, an examination with the speculum revealed a lacerated hole on the part a little behind the centre of the membrane which was congested and turbid; the hearing was almost entirely lost (the power of hearing by a watch being but without any pain or discharge. An antiseptic cotton wool plug was inserted into the meatus. On October 6th, a slight discharge came from the ear. The canal was washed witli boracic lotion, and a mixture of, boracic acid and olive oil dropped into the ear. At the end of the same month, the discharge had almost ceased ; the lacerated wound of the membrane healed and the congestion disappeared, but the turbidity of the membrane still remained and the hearing was not entirely restored (^Ytt)- ^^^^ 20t\i of November, the symptoms were greatly ! ' dt he treatment ceased. 123. —F. Takehara, aged 26, one of the gun crew of the Yoshino was in the naval, battle of Phung-do on the 25th of July, 1894, engaged in firing