73 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. antiseptic bandage was applied. After a short while, epistaxis and hrematemesis occurred suggesting a fracture at the base of the cranium. At first, the inind was clear but afterwards symptoms of cerebral excitement ensued ; the patient, bending his body would roll on his sides, and fall into lethargy, with occasional delirium. On the 8tli next, these signs remained the same, and he was removed to the hospital ship, Kobe-maru. When examined there, he was in a comatose condition, the face flushed and the pupils contracted a little, dull of i-eaction to the light, with incon- tinence of urine. Bandage was renewed and a mixture of bromide of potassium and sulphate of magnesium given internally. On the 9th inst., the bandage was changed, the stitchings were removed, as the wound began to suppurate. On tlie 13th, the discharge of pus from the wound became profase, and by the probing of the wound from its upper corner, it went beneath the scalp 6 cm., the temperature was 38° G. ; brain symptoms were the same as those on the previous day ; a counter opening was made at the bottom of the wound and a drainage tube introduced. On the 16th, the brain symptoms seemed to have somewhat subsided, the dehrinm and incontinence of urine nearly ceased. On the '20tli, the patient was admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital. At that time, the wound on the left forehead was wide open, exposing the bone stripped of its membrane, and discharging pus freely ; tlie brain symptoms still continued ; the patient was almost unconscious with occasional delirium ; tlie pupils contracted. An ice bag was applied to the head and a saline purgative was given. On the 22nd, the senses became much restored and the discharge of pus decreased. On the 25th, an opening was made in the scalp over the region of the coronal suture where the pus accumulated, through the patient having to lie on his back all the time. On the 28th, the granulation developed to such an extent that the exposed bone was at last covered ; pus discharge became less and less ; the mind gradually enlivened, headache disappeared, Imt giddiness prevented him from standing up. March 5th : all the symptoms subsided ; iodide of potassium was given internally. April 7th, the wound contracted to a small granulating surface and the discharge of pus entirely ceased, experiencing no giddiness when he stood up, the patient began to try to walk. On the 14th, tlie formation of the skin over the wound was completed, and a protecting bandage only was applied. From that time, the body daily increased in strength, so that he could walk with ease. On May 15th, he was removed to Yokosuka Naval Hospital where tonics and nutritious diets lieing employed, he fully recovered on June 1st and returned to his foi-mer service.