PREVENTION OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 530 approach the shore never failed to take quinine, and the result was that no case of malarial fever had occurred in the ship. However, during her stay at Keelung, one day our steam-boat (our ship was anchoring off the shore) encountering a sudden storm, was compelled to take refuge in a deep cove, without having time to call at the ship for quinine, and dropped her anchor close by the shore as usual. As a result' three days after, a member of the boat was attacked with fever, which was cured in the course of five days by the use of quinine. (By Saito, Surgeon of the Yoshino.) (9) During a short period from the end of October, 1895 to the beginning of November, no fewer than 20 cases of malarial fever at once occurred in our ship. This was with the seamen who had advanced on the Taiheizan fortresses, when the Takau forts of Formosa were occupied, and also with those seamen who had waded across the ditches around the forts of Anping, when it was taken possession of, more cases occurring among the former class of men (these persons according to the regulations of the ship had taken a dose of quinine previous to lauding, and also carried with them three days' quantity of the medicine which they used daring their stay on land). Mount Taiheh is a peak towering north of Takau port with a fort at about eight-tenths height from the foot. At about 1,400 or 1,500 metres above the shore, there is a spring on the mountain side, whose water is fresh and sparkling. The landing party of our ship who were then ordered to take the fortresses there had used up all the water they took with them on the way, and had to drink of the spring-water. This was the chief cause of the above mentioned visitation of malarial fever. Anyhow, the character of the disease then was very weak, each case being cured after running a short course by use of quinine. (By Saito, Surgeon of the Yoshino.) From the above reports, it is evident that quinine is an effective medicine as preventive against malaria (as the 1st and 5th reports show), but we must say that there sometimes occur cases which defy the power of medicine (as the 7th and 9th reports state). How many days the medicine holds its power over the person after its use, is not ascertained, yet we may safely say that the effect does not last long (as the 6th and 8th reports tell), and even during the use of quinine, one can not withstand the attack of malaria, when exposed to a strong virus of the disease (as the 9 th report shows.)