152 raJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITT. Hospital, and by the middle of October, the fracture of the ulua and riug-fiuger was completely united, but as the extension and flexion of the ring and little fingers were greatly interfered Avith, the grasping power was strikingly decreased and with the right hand heavy things could not be lifted. By the diligent repetition of active movements, the recovery of the injured limb was sought for, but as it was almost hopelessly delayed in recovery, the patient was, on February 9th, 1895, invalided for life, and pensioned according to the regulations. 224.—Compound fracture of the left fore-arm with blind wo and of the upper arm :—K- Fuuakoshi, aged 20, a stoker on board the Itsukushima, in the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was working in the after boiler-room, when a hostile shell came through the starboard coal-bunker amidships and exploded against the ladder set against the middle step in the after boiler-room. Some of the shell-fragments wounded him on the left upper and fore-arm. The wound of the upper arm was a lacerated one, of the size of the tip of the thumb, located at the junction of the upper and middle third of the antero-external side, it reached to the bone but without any injury to it. That of the fore-arm was an oval shaped lacer- ated wound 8 c. m. in diameter at a point G c. m. below the elbow joint and a little behind the ulnar side. The wound ran in an upward and outward direction and a shell-fragment remained at the bottom. The upper part of the ulna was broken, and the brachial artery rent at the bifurcation, so that the pulsations of the radial and ulnar arteries ceased, but haemorrhage was not profuse, and the radius escaped in- jury. Besides, in the middle of the extensor surface of the left fore-arm, and below a small abrased wound was found. The wounds were dressed with corrosive gauze. On the 21st of the same month, the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time, the injured limb presented a purplish blue colour below the elbow joint, the skin was cold, and the wound emitting a putrifyiug smell, indicating gangrene. So amputation of the arm was immediately performed at the middle of the upper arm by the circular method. The flap was stitched together^nd a rubber- tube inserted and covered by an antiseptic bandage. Strong nutritions and tonic measures were ordered. On October 3rd, the flap having healed by the first intention, the threads were removed. By the 28th, the strength of the patient was returning and so he was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. On December 3rd, the cica- trix of the stump was yet tender, so the part was protected with a bandage. On the 26th of the same mouth a certificate that he was disabled for life was forwarded to