BLIND AND PEXETRA'l'IXG WOUXDS. 313 strikes the skin, tlie Intter with \U elasticity yields under the pressure, and is rent open when it is stretched to the utmost, so that the part touched by the fragment is not punched oil' clean ; the remaining part assumes a lacerated form when the skin springs back to its norm- al state, accordingly as the tissues around the wound orifice sustain contusion owing to pressure, the size of the orifice is generally smaller than the size of the sliell-fragment. In the clinical history, there are many cases in which nothing is said about the relative size of tlie fraofments and the wound orihce mmle by them, so that we can not give particulars in every case ; however, from what we can judge from the recorded cases, the orifices are, as a rule, smaller than the shell- fragments. This can be proved by examples Xos. 8, 10, lo, 14, 18, 20, 21, 24:, and 28. But when a part where the bone is superficially located is struck by a sliell-fragment, the skin, being unable to yield sufficiently, is liable to be crushed ; in such cases the wound orifice does not present a lacerated form, but according to the shape of the fragment, it may be an irregular square, an irregular round, or an irregular oblong. This is exemplified by Xos. 15, 21, 22, and 2-1, Again, even at a, part rich in soft tissues, the tissues themselves afford more or less resistance, not as with the exit of a pei-forated Avound, where there is no outward resistance ; hence the tissues are rent open after they have been stretched to the utmost, and the entrance orifices do not present simply a lacerated a])pearance, but are always attended Avith more or less loss of substance. There are also some cases in which the length of the orifice is longer than the longest diameter of the shell-fragment Avhicli has produced it, as is exemplified by Xos. (J, 11, 19, 23, and 25, etc. This is produced l)y the fragment striking the skin in a slantin"' direction, so that it first "'lances alone: the skin, and then enters deep inti3 the tissues. This was especially the