107 INJURIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. the said gun, when he was knocked down on the deck by the shock of a hostile shell which hit the barrel of the gun; and sustained contusion on the right hypochondriac region. He complained of pain in the part on breathing and bending or extending lais trunk, but there were no objective signs to be seen. Spirit of camphor was ap- plied over the part; and rest was ordered ; he recovered on the 14tli. 132. —Contusion of the left side of chestM. Yoshizuka, stoker belong- ing to the Akitsushima, aged 22, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was descending the ladder of the engine room, when, by the shoclc of the firing of the ship's gun, he was thrown down into the 3aid room -and sustained contusion on the left side of chest. Symptoms of concussion were marked and he became unconscious. Eesuscitation was immediately resorted to, and on examining the part no ecchymosis nor fracture were found. The thoracic organs were intact. Lead lotion was applied to the chest, and strict rest ordered. The patient recovered on the 4 th day. 133. —Contusion of the chest with burns efface, neck and hand:— C. Inouye, one of the crew of the fore torpedo tube of the Matsushima, aged 24, at the battle of the Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1894, was in the fore torpedo cham- ber, when a shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck, and at the same time the ammunition provided for the use of the side gun exploded. Fragments of shells and explosion gas were thus forced into the said room, the fragments of shells con- tusing his left hypochondriac region and the right knee joint. The left half of the face, the neck and the backs of both hands sustained burns of the first degree. Temporary treatments were applied on board the ship, and the injured man was sent to Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 20th. At the time the burns had already healed ; but the contu- sion of the chest had caused an abrasion. The part Avas swollen, and he complained of pain at the time of deep breathing and of extending or bending the body. The knee joint presented uo abnormality but slight pain was complained of walking. Lead lotion was applied and rest enjoined. He left the hospital recovered, on October 10th. 134. —Contusion of back, right forearm and left leg:—Y. Uramoto, aged 24, one of the crew of the top-gun of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1894, was passing the port side of the lower waist deck car- rying shells for the top-gun, when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck ; some of the fragments struck him on the right iuter-scapular region causing blood extravasation of the size of a one yen silver piece ; slight contusions on the outer side of the right fore-arm and in front of the left leg were also sustained.