344 PLKFORATED WOUNDS. Partly because the shell-fragment was not a small one, and yet it was certainly not very large seeing that it did not injure the bone. There is, therefore, no alternative explanation except that the fragment, which was not weak in force, struck the sloping surface below the acromion process, and made its exit in a slanting line producing a comparative- ly large hole, as is usual with a blind or perforated w^ound caused by an oblique ^hell-fragment. There have been cases of perforated wounds with fracture w^here the exits are smaller than the inlets as in the 8th and 16th instances. This phenomenon is not strange, if we consider that the fractured pieces of bone did not come out in a mass with the shell-fraofment. Ajjain, No. 22 was a case in which the left elbow joint was perforated from the outer to the inner side, and at the same time I he left side of the chest in the 8th rib sustained a penetrating wound. Whether these two wounds were caused by one and the same shell-fragment can not be ascertained ; but assuming that the arm was hanffing- at that moment over the side of the chest in its na- tural position, we may infer that a single fragment was the cause of both injuries from the correspoding situations of the w'ounds. If this was the fact, the case is a good instance for showing that the force of the shell-fragment differs when it produces a perforated wound and a penetrating one, and that such difference of force involves a corres- ponding difference in the sizes of the inlets. The first perforated wound had an inlet of an irregular oval shape 6 cm. long, 4.6 cm. wide, and a lacerated exit of 2.7 cm , w^hile the second penetrating wound had a gaping inlet of 3 cm. in length attended with loss of substance. The large size of the first inlet had doubtless some connec- tion with the fact that the shell-fragment pierced the skin obliquely, at a fjillina- ang'le, but seeino- that both the exit of the first wound and the inlet of the second wound held the sauie angle with the inlet