LACERATED AND MUTILATED WOUNDS. 362 the magazine, and another person that belonged to No. 7 gun seems to have met with the same fate, though Ave can not affirm it positively in this case, for there was another shell that exploded at No. 7 gnn it- self. Ijesides these, some of the cases reported as mutilated wounds, may have been actually thrown into the sea through port-holes, etc. The mutilated wounds that occurred in the Hiyei were of two kinds :—those of the whole body, and those of the lower half of the body. In this ship, also, a 30.5 cm. shell knocked througli the wall of the captain's bedroom on the lower deck, as shoAvn in the accompany- ing cut, and entereil the Avardroom Avhich had been turned into a sur- gery. The explosion broke the iron base of the mizzen mast. Every other thing in the room—tables, chairs, surgical instruments, and fur- niture—Avas destroyed and scattered ; the room itself caught fire, and its Avails were almost ruined. On examinino; suroica! instruments that were afterwards picked up in A-arious places, it Avas fouijd that none of them retained their original shapes:—some were broken to pieces, and the others bent ; the probes doubled up, and strangest of all a saljre w;is found bent into a spiral. The total number of the wounded and killed by this explosion was 40, of Avhich l-t Avere killed on the spot, 1 died during that day, 1 after 4 days, 1 after 15 days, and 1 more after 17 days. The black dots in the accompanying cut show the localities where they were killed or Avounded on the lower deck. All except the mutilated Avounds have already becw mentioned under the respective headings of Avounds. However, in order that the effects given by a shell-explosion may be learned to better advantage, Ave shall again state the natures of the respective injuries received. The persons then in the Avardroom Avhere the explosion occurred Avere 2 surgeons, 1 paymaster assisting them, 3 nurses, 3 wounded persons, 4 carriers of the wounded, numbering 13 in all, and of these persons,