ENTERIC FEVER. 428 solntioi], about 24 gallons of 50 per cent carbolic, aiul about 3 gallons of lime paste. The places that were disinfected by the ship's hands were the water tanks, stores, and the ship's bottoni. First, a certain number of the non-disinfected men were instructed to wipe their bodies clean, and then to put on working-garments that liad already undergone steam-disinfection ; and then to carry the articles in the stores to the places already disinfected. All having thus been cleared oat, the walls and ceilings of the stores were painted with 10 per cent lime-paste. The lime-paste was quite dry after 3 hours, and then the said articles were taken back, this time by men already disinfected. As regards the water tanks, they were Irrst emptied ; then painted with 10 per cent lime-paste, which after 24 hours was scrupulously washed off. Then they were filled with Avell-water, which after 24 hours was found to have only a slight trace of lime. The tanks were accordingly made use of. As for the bottom of the ship, all the sections had their bilge water scooped out ; and every part was painted with 10 per cent lime-paste. In this case, the lime was left without being wiped away. After the process was over, every nook was carefully inspected. The hands required in disinfecting the tanks were 8, and 6 for the bottom, and the lime spent on the occasion was 8 cans (petroleum cans). Those who worked at the tanks had to strip themselves in order to get into them with the thermometer at 43° F., and they felt a sliuddering cold. So spirits were given them to prepare against cold. Those who were engaged at the disinfection were themselves dis- infected after the work. Lastly, as to the water-closets, it was resolved that they should be painted with lime-paste thrice a day for two weeks by sick-berth stewards. The cases already mentioned having been found to be enteric fever, the ship's crew Avere strictly forbid- den to go on shore for two weeks, this being the average duration of the incubation. And it was also resolved that should a febrile case occur, no matter what its nature was, slight or serious, the patient should be sent to the hospital, and the hammock, clothes-bag, and other articles belonging to him, receive steam-disinfection ; and that the place which the patient used to occupy be disinfected with a 1 in 1,000 corrosive sublimate solution. After this tliorough disinfection febrile cases ceased completely and the ship resumed service.