INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 189 Jongitudiiial fissure in its inner surface and atteiideJ by ha-'morrbage. There was also a longitudinal abrased wound 3 cm. long on the inner side about the middle of the right thigh, and a third, one c. m. long running laterally in the left gluteal region,— that is, 5 c. m. backward from the anterior superior spine of the left ilium. Carbolic gauzes were applied to the wounds. On the 5th, the patient was placed on board the Omi-maru, homeward bound, and on the 10th, reached the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Conditions of the wounds:—The margins of the wound on the right leg were swollen with the vesicles around, (perhaps owing to the irritation of carbolic acid) ; the wound was gaping and there was a slight discharge of pus. The abrased wounds on the thigh and gluteal region were already healed. Temperature was 37° C, the wound was treated with solution of corrosive sublimate and gauze, and the injured limb was kept on an iron splint. Onthel4th, in the interior of the wound of the leg, free pieces of broken bone were found, which were extracted after enlarging the wound, and proved to be two fragments of bone. On the IGth, the swelling around the wound had entirely gone, and granulation presented a healthy colour, pus dis- charge became slight and the temperature normal. On the 27th, the granulation of the wound developed so as to fill the inside and cover the roughened surface of the bone. On March 12tli, the patient was affected with intestinal catarrh, which Avas, by use of an astringent mixture, cured in a week. The conditions of tlie wound were daily improving, and by the middle of April, the wound had become contracted, the granulation developed to the level of the skin and pus discharge en- tirely ceased. Boracic ointment was applied. On May 1st cicatrix formed, and on the 5th, the patient completely recovered and returned to service. (See the illustra- tion). 287.—Fracture of tlie left tibia and fibula with abrasion of the back. —M. Furubayashi, aged 25, a gunner on board the Akagi, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing from the starboard fore quarter on the upper deck, when fragments of a shell passing under the shield of that gun struck him, inflicting a flesh wound near the lower part of the right scapula and on the back of the left leg. On examination, there was an oval-shaped abrased wound 3. c. m. in diameter, at a part 6 c. m. below the inferior angle of the right scapula ; there was no injury to the ribs ; in the middle of the posterior surface of the left leg a lacerated Avound 8 c. m. long 1.2 c. m. wide, running in an inward and downward direction was found. The gastrocnemius was abrased, but as the margins of the wound were