BURNS. 21G 1st luitcli ia the fore part of the lower deck, wlieu a shell hurst against the shield of No. 4 port side-guii in the fore part of the lower deck, at the same time exploding the ammunition stored for the side-guns. By the flame of the explosion, he received hums of the 1st degree on the face, and that of the 2ud degree on the right iipper arm and left forearm to the end of the fingers. After temporary treatment on l)oard the ship, he was, on the 20th, conveyed to the Saseho Naval Hospital. On admis- sion, the face was hlackened, the ear-lobes, arm and forearms stripped of epidermis ■witli blisters here and tliere. Wet boracic gauze was applied. He returned to service on October 14th completely healed. 346.—Burns of the faca, neck, chest and limbs with rapture of tympa- nic membranes :—G. Tanata, aged 29, a seaman of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was carrying a wounded man ou the upper deck, to the surgery in the ward-room in the rear of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell exploded in the room. By the flame of the explosion, he sustained burns of the face, left side of the neck, the chest, the back, and the upper and lower extremities. On the same occasion all the medical staff on board were killed, so being temporarily treated by his com- rades, he was properly treated by a surgeon from another ship, when the vessel arrived the next morning at the rendezvous near Cape Choppelci, and on that day, transferred to the transport Genkai-maru, and ou the 21st admitted to the Saseho Naval Hospital. On admission, the face was burned black with deep excoriations ou it. The left side of the neck and chest had blisters, and nearly the whole of the left arm, right forearm, and left leg sustained burns of 2nd degree. The membrana tympani of both ears were ruptured. The burns were dressed with wet boracic gauze, and the ears plugged with antiseptic cotton wool. On the 30tli, the burns of the face and neck were healed the parts being spotted with brownish dots ; the fore- arms began to heal, while the rest was still ulcerating and discharging pus. This day the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. Some time after, there ac- curred pus discharge from the ears attended by pain, so the interiors were examined and both tympanic membranes which had been lacerated were recognized still to remain widely open, the right ear having almost lost the power of hearing. They were washed with a boracic solution and a mixture of boracic acid and olive oil was dropped into them. By October 12th, all the burns had been healed, l)ut the discharge from the ears still contiimed, always accompanied with heaviness of the head. By January 11th of the following year, the discharge from the ears had greatly decreased; however.