KAK'KE. 468 while that of barley has decreased. The fact that kak'ke prevails in newly erected barracks and prisons also goes to prove the correctness of our opinion. From these facts, Ave infer tliat the prevalence of kak'ke in Brazil was attributable to an over abundant supply of rice from other countries, as has been the case here. We are informed that though the inhabitants of Brazil all live on rice, yet owing to its scanty production in their own country, the greater part of their stock comes from abroad ; and that kak'ke taking Bahia as its centre, has spread into Rio de Janeiro, Santa Catharina, Pernambuco, Maranhao, Ceara, and other sea coast districts, and so gradually into the interior. We may reasonably think that with the progress of means of com- munication, there comes an increased supply of rice which is in its turn followed by a visitation of kak'ke, and we do not know where- else to look for an explanation of the fact that in spite of its prevalence throughout Brazil, the neighbouring Uruguay is free from kak'ke. It it true that in Uruguay since 1891, kak'ke has been regarded as an infectious disease and placed under the same regulations as regard to preventive measures as cholera or yellow fever, but for many years previous to that date, kak'ke patients belonging to Brazilian ships had constantly been admitted to the hospital at Mont-video. Yet no case of kak'ke which could be regarded as infectious has occurred in the country itself. We venture therefore to affirm that kak'ke has an intimate connection with inadequate combinations of food and especially with an absolutely or comparatively large consumption of rice—: and that the only sure and elfective measure for its prevention is the keeping of various nutritious articles of food at the physiological standard. Kak'ke always prevails where the rice is the principal food of the nation. We have not yet been able however to tind out the reason why rice should be the cause of kak'ke. It may be, as some think, a kind of dyscrasia caused by want of albuminous substance in excess of