CONTUSED -WOUXD. 292 lesion was then recognized in it, Lut by sub.se(|aent symptoms it -was plain that the orbital plate of the frontal bone and ethmoid ^vere frac- tured. The case fortunately recovered. With bullet Avounds, it is a matter of so rare occurrence, that an indirect fracture like the above is still a matter of doubt as U) its possibility, Avhile it is a matter of course with gun sliot Avounds. For, if a shell-fragment which is heavy but not high in velocity, strikes the head A\-itli its dull round surface, the skull may escape fracture OAving to the Avide area of the bony surface, but, the pressure diverging in every direction, the Aveak- est part is liable to be broken. Case c Avas attended with a fracture in the temporal region but Avithout any injury in the brain substance, nor any remarkable haemorrhage Avithin the cranium. Unconsciousness present at the beginning must have been the result of concussion, and the pain and struggling agony which occurred after the recovery of consciousness were the result of the burns received all over the body. It is a well recognized fact that sufferers from extensive burns shoAv the same symptoms, sometimes accompanied by traumatic delirium. Case / was a case of contused Avound 8 cm. in length on the left parietal region breaking the outer plate of the parietal bone. It Avas uncertain whether the inner plate was broken or not, yet as far as examination proved, the bone lesion Avas only in the outer plate, as no brain sym- tom Avas present, and even, granting that the inner plate was injured, it was not broken to pieces as the outer plate. The inner plate as a rule is liable to be broken more widely than the outer, and accordingly ■ it is not infrequently found that the former is injured Avhen the latter is intact. The reverse is a matter scarcely recognized in military surgery, and its A^ery possibility is still questioned. However, as far as the evidence of the present naval battles goes, there Avere not a fcAv cases in Avhich bones, besides the skull, Avere injured only on the su- perficial layer or the outer Avail, so that Avhen hit by keen edges of a