316 BLIND AXD PENETliATIXG WOUNDS. Avouiids or as blind, and for the present they are classified according to the names reported from ditf'erent ships. The eight cases of penetrat- ing "wounds of the skull in the 1st example all died instantaneously except one, and it is doubtful whether the shell-fragments really pene- trated into the skull or not, however, there is no means of investigat- ing the condition of the wounds, as the reports on them are so brief. One case, which survived for a few hours received 3 lacerated wounds in the forehead, all attended with fractures of the bone ; one near the border of the hair communicated with the cranial cavity as is seen in the illustration of case No. 45 ; and a part of the bone being missing the crushed brain substance came out of the hole together with blood. The aperture in the skin compared Avith those of the other two wounds was narrow, so that it might as well be regarded as a penetrating wound ; but that could not be certainly affirmed, as the location of the shell-fragment was not ascertained. However, considered in another way, it may be explained thus : the cracks of the bone extended over a pretty wide area, so that they seemed to have been ] roduced simult- aneously with the other two wounds by a very heavy shell-fragment. Moreover the hole in the skin was not large, yet presented a lacerated form, so from all these focts, we may infer that it may not have been a penetrating wound, but a so-called contused Avound attended Avitli fracture, and that the loss of a part of the bone Avas because of the falling in of the broken pieces of bone, by Avhich the brain substance Avas also injured. Example No. 27 also, though the location of the shell-fragment was not ascertained, Avas obviously a penetrating Avound. For the skin hole on the forehead had the appearance of a small lace- ration, and the bone Avas perforated Avith a round hole some 1 cm. in diameter, as is shown in the illustration of the clinical history, with cracks neither in the inner nor on the outer plates of the bone