371 BURNS AND SCALDf, (26) Burns on the face, and below tlie lower ends of right forearm, attended with sprains of both ankle joints. The burns were healed, but owing to derangement in the ankle joints, he was discharged from service on June 6th, the same year. (27) Burns on the right leg accompanied with sprain of the right ankle joint. Perfectly recovered on December 30th, 1894. (28) Burns on the head, face and both forearms accompanied with sprain of the right ankle joint, and rupture of both membrana tympaui. After being transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital, the patient completely recovered on December 21st, the same year. (29) Burns on the face, left side of the chest, and left lower extremity, attended with rupture of both membrana tympani. After transfer to the Kure Naval Hospital, the patient recovered from his burns, but owing to the perforation of membrana tym- pani, the hearing of either side was greatly impaired, and the man discharged from service on April I8th, 1895. (30) Burns on the fii.ce, nape and right forearm. After transfer to the Kure Naval Hospital, completely cured on November 5th, 1891. (31) Burns on tho lower part of right leg and on right foot. After transfer to the Kure Naval Hospital, completely recovered on October 24th, the same year. (32) Burns on the face, both hands and both legs. Completely healed on October IGth, the same year. Causes and localities of burns Of the 32 patients above mentioned, 28 were in- jured on board the Matsushima, all by the explosion of gun-powder, 2 on the Yoshino, by the explosion of a hostile-shell, and the other 2 when the Hiyei was set on fire. The burns, as already indicated were mostly in exposed parts such as the face and limbs, and rarely in places protected by clothes. This was perhaps because, the ex- plosion being instantaneous, the flames had not time enough to set the clothes on fii'e, and also because those who were severely womided had all died before they were admitted to the hospital. The wounded are said, at the time of their injury, to have been wearing flannel shirts, under-drawers and Japanese socks. Area and depth of the burns. Accurate measurements were next to impossible, but speaking generally, in 3 cases (Nos. 3, 4, 14 above mentioned) the area of burns exceeded two tljirds of the whole body : in one case the area exceeded one third of the wliole body (No. 19) : in the I'emaiuing cases, tlie total areas were always loss than