835 PERFORATED WOUNDS 4tli instance :—-A large perforated womid from the left side of the chest to tlie right side of the back was sustained, accompanied with another perforating wound from the inner side to the back of the middle of the left thigh, and burns on the face and neck. He was killed on the spot. The sizes of the perforating wounds were not recorded. (No. 151.) 5th instance :—perforating wound at the upper third of the right thigh, the femur was broken and the hsemorrage profuse. The entrance orifice was an irregular square shape 3 cm. in diameter, and the exit a lacerated form hardly 3 cm. in dia- meter. Besides, there was a contused lacerated wound 4 cm. in length on tliu right shoulder. He died on the spot. (No. 2G0.) 6th instance :—A large perforating wound from the right side of the chest to the back was inflicted, accompanied with a similar wound in the middle of the left U[iper arm. The injured man died on the spot. Tiie size of the wound was not recorded. (No. 149.) 7th instance :—A perforating wound from the right side of the thyroid cartilage to the nape of the neck corresponding to the second cervical vertebra was sustained, and it seemed, as if the right eye-ball had been hit by a small shell-fragment, the cornea and sclerotic were destroyed discharging the contents of the eye. Though the carotid artery was not injured, lifemorrhage was profuse, at first the mind was firm without signs of shock, but after a time the temperature rose accompanied with nausea and vomiting, and the patient became drowsy, finally falling into coma, he expired in little more than an hour after the injury. (No. 128.) 8th instance :—A perforating wound from the outer part of the right clavicular region to the right shoulder was sustained, accompanied with a blind wound in the front of the right thigh, and three abrased wounds on the inner side of the left leg. The entrance orifice of the wound of the clavicle had an oval shape the size of the tip of the thumb, the exit was smaller and presented a lacerated form ; the outer part of the clavicle was broken. In the wound 5 pieces of bone were found and extracted. The wound healed in 3 months, but the muscles became emaciated, the grasping power was greatly weakened and treatment being of no avail, the patient had finally to be invalided. (No. 193.) 9th instance :—A large perforating wound from the right side of the chest, to the left part of the back was sustained, breaking the 3rd rib. The injured man died on the spot. The size of the wound aperture was not recorded. (No. 147.)