lyJUEIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 194 ing orders to the lower deck from the 1st hatch iu the fore part of the upper deck, ■when a 30.5 c.iu. hostile shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck and set on fire a large amount of ammunition provided for the side gun. The shock of the explosion, threw him up and sprained the ankle joints. In addition, the explosion flame caused burns of the second degree on the face and forearms down to the fingers. The injuries were temporarily dressed on board the ship, and on the 20th the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. To the burns wet boracic dressing was applied, and the ankle joints were put on splints. The burns progressed favorably and healed by October 5th, but the swelling and pain of the ankle joints remained. By the middle of December the swelling had gradually subsided, but tiie pain still lingered, and on standing congestion in the injured limb would occur. Chronic inflammation of the injured joint set in, which oflered no prospect of easy recovery, so the patient was discharged from service, June 6th 1895, and pensioned according to the regulations. 294. —Sprain of the right ankle joint:—S. Seuoo, aged 22, a seaman belonging to the Kaimon, was on duty as sentinel at an occupied fort of Liucho-tsai, Weihaiwei, on February 2nd, 1895, Avhen a hostile shell burst about 2 metres from him. The shock threw him down from the 4th barrier on to a shell-wagon and sprain- ed the right ankle. The injured part became swollen and painful, and he could hardly walk. On the 9th, he was admitted to the 2nd fixed army hospital at Kosango, and on the 16th, was transferred to the Hiroshima army hospital. At the time, the right ankle joint was much swelled, with pain on flexion and extension. A mixture of ichthyol and iodine was painted on, and the limb was kept at rest. On March 10th, he was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital ; and the swelling of the joint had nearly subsided, but was somewhat larger compared with the sound one, and walking power was regained. By active movements of the limb and hot bathing, he was completely cured, and on the 16th of the same month, returned to service. 295. —Sprain of the left ankle and burns of the right leg:—K- Shigeru, aged 22, one of a gun-ci-ew of the Matsushima, at battle of the Yellow sea, was firing from the No. 7 light Hotchkiss gun, on the starboard side of the flying deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the gun-support. By the shock, he was thrown down, and the left ankle joint was sprained ; the explosion flame also inflicted a burn of the 2nd degree on the outer side of the right leg. He also sustained three