445 MALAEIAL FEVER. who had taken part in an attack made on the forts of Tuihei-zan at Takau, or had waded across the muddy moats in front of the Anping forts which were also attacked and taken at that time. Taihei-zan is a mountain overhanging the Takau port on the north. Tliere are forts on the mountain about eight-tenths of the way up from the base. The distance from the sliore seems to be some 1400 or 1500 metres. On the way up the mountain, there is a spring of clear and refreshing water. Our landing party having been ordered to take possession of the forts, set out on their expedition. Before they reached their destination, the contents of their water-flasks had all gone, and they were obliged to drink from the spring. This unavoidable at the time, but was probably the main cause of the affection. Before starting, each man was given 0.3 of quinine, and was ordered to carry three days dose of the same. The cases were all favorable, for thanks to the quinine they were completely cured in a short time." " Malarial fever in Formosa: The incubation period is from 6 days at the shortest to about, a month at the longest. With those who landed at Anping, the disease appeared after 6 or 7 days, whilst those who went ashore at Takau, mostly showed it after an incubation of over 2 weeks. In both cases the types of the fever were indefinite, but they were all quotidian or tertian ; there was no quartan at all. Only one patient was affected with yawning during the preliminary stage. Chill existed in most cases, but there were a few cases which free from it. lligors scarcely existed ; headache was constant, lumbago frequent, but pain in the nape and back very rare. In most cases, lassitude of the limbs was complained of though rarely attended with pain. The number of pulsations was in accordance with the temperature, and not slow as in enteric fever. Sweating occurred in most cases though totally absent in some. The enlargement of the spleen and liver was not remarkable. Xausea and vomiting were