214 BUKXS. burned parts of the neck and forearms were stripped off exposing the true skin. The burns were dressed with wet boracic lints, and the eyes with cokl compress. Ou October 14tb, the burns were all healed. Congestion of the left conjunctiva still lingered, and the sight was not restored yet, but the refractive bodies and fundus were found to be sound. Boracic compresses and astringent collyrium were used. On November oth, he completely recovered and returned to service. 342.—Burns of the head, face, neck and limbs :—K. Masuda, aged 25, a seaman of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was distributing grease to the guns in the fore part of the lower deck, when a shell burst against the shield of No. 4 port side-gun on the same deck; at the same time igniting the ammunitions of the side-guns. By the flame of explosion he received burns of the 2nd or 3rd degree on the liead, face, neck, forearms, hands, right thigh and both legs. The burns were temporarily dressed on board tlie ship, and he was, on the 20th, admitted to the Sa- sebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the hair of the scalp was singed, the integument having here and there blisters; the face covered with thick black crusts ; prominent parts such as the ear-lobes, nose, and cuin exposed the true skin, the epidermis being denuded; the limbs also presented blisters or excoriations, the burns on the outer side of the right thigli and back of right hand were of the 3rd degree, the subcutaneous areolar tissues and fascia were deeply eroded presenting a sloughy appearance, the general strengtli failing, tlie patient suffering great distress. Boracic wet compresses were applied, and special attention paid to tonic measures. By October 4th, the burns of the face, left hand and foot began to grow epidermis, and the deeply eroded parts of the right hand and thigh were showing granulation. The ear-lobes were remarkably swollen, the cartilages mortified accompanied with subcutaneous accumulation of pus, which was given vent by an incision. On November 11th, the other burns except those on the ears, right hand and thigh, had healed over Avithout leaving any cicatrix. By January 10th, of the next year, all the burns were healed, and the debility decidedly improved But on the back of right hand an extensive cicatrix resulted, and the extens- or tendons of each finger became adherent; all the fingers became stiffened and could not be moved ; also the wrist joint shared in the impairment of its movements. The ear-lobes, in consequence of dissolution of the cartilages had become withered thus destroying their contour, and the auditory canals Avere, by a large part, closed, so that the hearing was interfered witlj. This disabled him for service and he was, on March 17 th, dismissed, and granted a pension according to the regulation.