INJURIES OF THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. 124 the port No, 4 gun in the fore-part of the lower deck, and ignited at the same time tlie ammnnition provided for the side-gnn. He sustained bnrns of the first degree on the face, and on the dorsa of both liands and feet; also one of the fragments of sliell inflict- ed a penetrating wound on the left abdominal region. On the 20th, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital, at which time, the burned parts presented a dark reddish colour. The wound of the abdomen was of a round shape, the size of one yoi silver, at a spot 7 cm. to the left and below the umbilicus : in the middle of wound another small hole penetrating to the abdominal cavity was noticed. Symptoms of peritonitis had already set in, as the tension and severe pain of the abdomen, nausea and vomit- ing liad for some time been going on. Antiseptic measures were taken for the wound, application of ice to the abdomen and internal administration of anodyne were resort- ed to. On the 25th, the burns healed; and the peritonitic signs slightly abated. But exhaustion increased gradually and at last he died on the 28th of October. 164. —Penetrating wound of abdomen with blind wound of the left thigh :—Y. Matsuraoto, aged 24, stoker of the Itsukushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was working in the after boiler room, when a shell pierced through the starboard coal bunker in the waist and exploded against the ladder in the boiler- room. One of the fragments of shell inflicted a penetrating wound in the middle of the abdomen ; another one, a small blind wound in the left thigh. The injured man died on the spot before assistance was given. 165. —Penetrating wound of abdomen with fractures of the humerus, thigh and leg :—K. Kimura, aged 24, stoker of the Itsukushima, during the engage- ment of the Yellow sea, was on the highest grating of the fore boiler-room, when a shell exploded, after piercing through the port netting in the fore part; the fragments of shell inflicted the following wounds : a penetrating wound of the abdomen below the umbilicus, the size of a two sen copper, from which the bowels came out; and compound fractures in the middle of the right upper arm in the lower part of the left thigh and on the left leg. The injured mm died instantly from the shock. 166. —Penetrating wound of abdomen with fracture of the ilium:— K. Narabara, aged 36, petty officer on board the Itsukushima, during the battle of the Yellow sea, was in the torpedo-chamber in the fore-part, when a hostile shell ex- ploded, striking the torpedo-net-boom on the outer side. The fragments breaking through the ship's side dashed into the torpedo-chamber, where one of them gave him a penetrating wound on the right iliac region, from which the intestines escaped; and