INJURIES OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 188 middle and ring fingers, tbougli witbout any lesion of the bone. A splint was applied to tbe right leg, spirit of camphor to the contused wounds on the forearm and hand, and tbe patient was ordered to keep quiet. On the 26tb, be was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time, tbe contused parts of tbe forearm and band were found to be healing gradually, but as the swelling over tbe fractured part of tbe leg was still lingering, it was fixed by plaster of Paris bandage. On tbe 30tb, he was transferred to tbe Kure Naval Hospital. Progress was afterwards favourable, tbe fracture of tbe fibula united, and tbe pain and swelling disappeared. On October 25tb, tbe patient was perfectly recovered, and returned to service. 285. —Contused wound of the right leg :—(with superficial lesion of tibia) Y. Hirai, aged 23, one of a gun-crew on tbe Akitsusbima, during tbe attack on Liukung Island, February 7tb, 1895, under a command to stop firing, was standing just behind the No. 7 gun on tbe starboard after-quarter of tbe upper deck, when a hostile shell burst on the poop-deck. Some of tbe shell-fragments inflicted two small contused wounds, one just below tbe tubercle of the right tibia aud the other in front of tbe middle part of the right leg. The upper one though piercuig the periosteum and reaching tbe bone did not cause fracture. The wounds were dressed antiseptically, and tbe patient was ordered to keep quiet. On tbe 8tb, he was removed to the hospital ship Kobe-maru. On tbe 13th, the wound at tbe middle part of the leg was nearly healed, while the one above it gradually developed granulation. On tbe 20th, tbe patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Tbe wound continued to discharge a little pus, but under antiseptic treatment granulation became healthy and the margins of tbe wound gradually formed epidermis, and a small cicatrix appeared on March 20tb, and on the 25th, be left the hospital, perfectly recovered, and returned to duty. 286. —Compound fracture of the right tibia with abrasion of buttock and thigh :—K. Yotsumoto, aged 24, Midshipman on tbe Tsukushi during tbe bom- bardment of the forts of Zbib Island^ February 3rd, 1895, was stationed, as assistant to the lieutenant of tbe 3rd division, in command of tbe 9 pounder on tbe starboard fore quarter of tbe upper deck, when a shell entered from the port side, and pierced through tbe lower part of the funnel. From some of tbe broken pieces of tbe funnel, he received the folloAving wounds :—A vertically lacerated wound 3 c. m. long, at a part 7 c. m. below tbe knee on the inner side of the right leg, which tore tbe skin and muscles raggedly ; and tbe wound was gaping. It reached to the tibia causing a