99 IXJUKIES OF THE FACE. •washed with a boracic lotion ; foreign bodies Avere extracted from them and wet com- presses of boracic acid were applied ; the other wounds were dressed with carbolic gauze. On the 19th, the injured man was sent on board a transport, to tlie Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time of admission, the conjunctiva of the left eye was swollen ; the anterior chamber presented a dark reddish colour owing to the effusion of blood ; the pupillary region was clouded and of a yellowish colour ; the opening of the conjunc- tival wound had already healed. The conjunctiva of the right eye was congested ; the cornea and lens were sound ; the sight was not impaired, but the pupil was somewhat dilated, and the reaction to light was very slow. The wounds on the left fingers and the left leg were of a gray colour on the surface, with a slight discharge of pus. On the 26th the presence of a foreign body in the wound of the leg was found by probing ; a counter opening was made on the outer side, and a fragment of shell about the size of the tip of the thumb was extracted. The crashed portion of the little finger was covered by granulation. On tlie lltli of October, the congestion of both eyes greatly abated, and the vision of the right eye improved, yet musca; volitantes was complained of. The effusion of blood in the anterior chamber of the left eye underwent absorp- tion, yet the opacity of the cornea existed as before to tlie complete loss of sight. A mild purgative was given and leeches applied to the temple. On the 2oth the left eye underwent slight atrophy and presented no signs of the recovery of sight. The vitreous body of the right eye was found to be clouded, and the lens of the left eye was found to be quite opaque and of a yellowish gray colour (traumatic cataract). The use of a moderate quantity of iodide of potassium was continued. On the 27th, the surface of the crushed wound of tlie little finger became cicatrized ; tiie canal wound on the leg was filled with granulation and the surface contracted. On the 28th of December, the wound on the outer side of the leg healed. The left eye in- creased its degree of atrophy. The sight of the right eye gradually recovered its power, and the muscie volitantes was greatly relieved. On the 6th'of January, 1895, the wound on the inner side of the left leg healed. But owing to the contraction of the cicatrix the knee joint assumed an angle of 150° so as to hinder proper movements. Spirit of camphor was applied and active and passive movements of the joint were encouraged. Ever since the left leg has gradually increased tlie degree of flexion and extension, yet in walking, a stick was found necessary. Signs of the eyes :—the sight of the right eye fell a little short of ; the mnscfe volitantes still remained. The atrophy of the left eye increased noticeably and, was attended by occasional irritative