THE BA'J'TLE OF YALU. 6 5. —At 2.84 p.m., :i 26 centimetre shell discharged from the Fing Yuen perforated, at a point, of o.G metres above the sea level, the mess-roo?n on the port side of the middle part of the lower deck where the surgeons were stationed, destroying more than half the medicinal articles ; then the shell perforated the torpedo magazine and passing beneath the torpedo discharger, crushed the side plate at the entrance to the engine room. Lastly it struck against the gun- mounting of the 32 centimetres and tore it to pieces (without explod- ing,) damaging stores, oil-tanks, and medicine-chests. Ijy the scatter- ing of the fragments of the iron plate, the beams above the torpedo-discharger, the rails for the torpedo, a fish-torpedo (a part of the body being perforated without explosion), the scullei'y, lavatory, bath room, a part of the gun-room water-closet, and the surrounding- parts of the lower deck were destroyed. At this time, Sub-Lieutenant A. Ide who was directing the torpedo was thrown down by the pass- ing force of the shell; he was also injured by a piece of the iron plate, three of the torpedo crew were killed by the shell, and four men were more or less wounded by the iron and wooden splinters. 6. —At 2.42 p.m., a o7 millimetre shell perforated the engineer's room on the port side of the middle part of the lower deck, at a point of 4.5 metres above the sea level, and exploded against the mounting of the 32 centimetre grin, but no Jiiarked damage was sustained. 7. —At 3.10 p.m., a 47 millimetre shell perforated the torpedo- chamber on the port side of the middle part of the lower deck, and exploded against the shell-mounting under the main mast. At this time, a torpedo man was severely wounded. 8. —At 3.26 p.m., two 30.5 centimetre shells simultaneously struck at a point of about 4.5 metres above the sea level, Xo. 4 bat- tery of 12 centimetre gun on the port side of the fore part of the lower deck. The one struck the gun obliquely and changed its direction a