290 CONTUSED WOrXD. A short time after the i}ijury, epistaxis twice appeared. The patient's inincl was clear at first, but afterwards signs of cerebral irritability appeared, and he would bend or toss about his body and limbs, and at times fall into stupor with occasional delirium and incontinence of urine. After a couple of days, the wound suppurated and the cerebral symptoms persisted, the patient was unconscious ; his pupils were contract- ed, witli sluggish reaction to the light. The temperature fluctuated somewhere about 38° C; afterwards the pus burrowed beneath tlie occipito-frontalis, so a counter open- ing was made. Ten days after this, his mind became somewhat clearer though he still suffered from headache, and in 3 weeks after the injury, the brain symptoms had entirely gone, and 4 months after, he returned to duty. This was probably a case of fracture of the base of cranium. (No. 52.) 0,—This was a case of several wounds caused by nmny fragments of a shell :—A contused wound 6 c. m. long and 1 c. m. wide and as deep as the pericranium in the vertex ; a contused wound 3 cm. in length and 1 cm. in width, running laterally along the right side of the upper lip ; a contused wound 12 c m. long and 7 c. m. wide, stretching from tlie inner side to the posterior surface of the left thigh ; a con- tused wound which destroyed all the digits of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd toes of the left foot After a few days, the fore part of the injured foot became gangrenous and Lisfranc's disarticulation was performed, and in 5 months all the wounds were healed, yet on account of the loss of a part of the foot, he was discharged from service. (No. 304.) Other contused wounds besides those stated above, showed inore or less difference in size, but most of them were only cases of contusion of the soft parts without any complications worthy of record ; and a few wliicli were attended with fractures were no more than wounds as of fingers, which healed in due course of time and presented no i)iteresting phases. They are, accordingly, omitted here. Contused Avounds caused by shell-fragments totalized 97 as has been mentioned; if this be compared to the total number of various wounds from the same cause, it will bear a ratio of 33.56 per cent, a sum Avhich stands highest among all kinds of the Avounds pro- duced by shell-fragments. However, as Avill be shown later, compared with iron-pieces or wooden splintei"s, shell-fragments bear comparative- ly a loAv ratio, in producing wounds of this kind. This is because