104 INJURIES OF THE NECK. on the enemy's vessels, when by the shock of the dischai'ge of tlie gun the left membrana tympannm was raptured. By using the speculum a transversely lacerated hole was recognized at the upper part of the membrane. An antiseptic cotton-wool plug was inserted into the meatus. Some days after, the auditory canal-became congested and a slight discharge with impairment of hearing and ringing in the ear was complained of. The canal was washed out with boracic lotion, and a mixture of boracic acid and olive oil dropped into the ear. In the middle of August, the discharge ceased, and the hearing was gradually restored, though the perforation of the membrane still remained. Washing of the ear was given up, while dropping of the boracic oil still continued. The case healed 'oia the 31st of August. 4.-INJURIES OF THE NECK. (A). INJUEIES OF THE SKIN AND SUPEEFICIAL MUSCLES. 124. —Abrasion of the neck :—S. Mukoyama, aged 38, Commander of the Matsushima. In the battle of the Yellow sea on September 17th, 1894, was standing on the after bridge, when a shell from the enemy exploded against the tower wall of the 32 cm. gun. The fragments of the shell caused an abrasion on the right side of the neck. Corrosive gauze was applied. On October 3rd, the wound healed by scabbing. 125. —Abrasion of the neck and chest:—T. Imamura, aged 20, a seaman of the Itsukushima. In the naval engagement of the Yellow sea on September 17th, 1894, acting as a magazine party of 12 cm. gun, was standing behind the bow-gun battery on the upper deck, when a hostile shell penetrated through the port netting in the fore part and exploded. An abrasion 3 cm. in diameter was caused by some fragments on the left side of tlie thyroid cartilage, another, of the size of a 5 rin copper piece, at the right hypochondriac region. Sublimate gauze was applied; and the lesions healed under scabs on October 9th. 126. —Penetrating wound of the neck with abrasion of right arm and burns of the neck :—H. Arima, aged 21, a cook of the Matsushima. In the battle of the Yellow sea on September 17th, 1894, was engaged as a shell carrier of the after magazine ; while taking a short repose on the chest in the middle part of the lower