EXTEEIC FEVER. 427 wiped with cloths dipped in the same sohilioii, and then left to dry in the room closed. Over the doors, were stnck bills written " disinfected," and the passage of people not yet disinfected was prohibited. All the officers' rooms and passages were disinfected in the same way. Pending disinfection, those officers who had not yet undergone the process, were placed in the gini-room, and a passage on the port side was left for them, petty officers and men who had not yet undergone the process were placed on the upper deck of the port side (sentinels and boys had their clotlies, hair, caps, and shoes sufficiently sprinkled with carbolic sohition). The process of disinfec- tion in this way having made progress, the fore part of the ship where petty-officers and men used to sit and sleep had to be disinfected. Here the deck and other parts were pumped with a five per cent, carbolic solution so that deck &c. was soaked with it, then the scuttles being opened, tlie part was left to dry. Next, the deck leading to the stores at the bottom, and stair cases thereto were disinfected. Hereupon, the fore part of the lower deck was shut off, and a bill of "disinfected," was stuck on the entrance. Now those who returned after undergoing the disinfection were made to arrange things in the disinfected rooms. Then the upper deck on the starboard side, starboard ladder and the hummock nettings on the upper deck were disinfected for the use of the disinfected persons. As to the water-closets on both sides, urinals were likewise pumped with the same carbolic solution (the evacuation pipes were too small to permit lime-paste without the fear of obstruction). Tlie carbolic solution was first poured into the closets, and then painted with a 10 per cent lime-paste. One closet on the starboard was once appropriated to the use of the fever patients, accordingly no admittance was given for 2i hoars after disinfection. Closets on tlie port side were open to the use of the disinfected. At 1 p.m., the work was resumed, gallant forecastle, poop, the cabin were all treated witli carbolic solution. At 3 p.m., the disinfected returned to the ship to change with those to be disinfected. So the latter now took with them articles like those already mentioned, and landed to receive disinfection. Now, the remaining gun-room, passage to it, the upper deck and port ladder etc., underwent the process ; and the closets were again disinfected, for they had been visited by the non-disinfected. Finally the engine-rooms were sprinkled with carbolic solution. Thus the work to be performed by the quarantine officers now came to an end. It was just 5 p.m., so eight hours had been spent in the work. Two quarantine officers and the ship's surgeon superintended the process, which was carried on by 7 disinfecting-men assisted by 5 seamen. The medical materials spent were about 120 gallons of 20 per cent carbolic