INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 71 on February 4tli 1895 for life. He was, according to regulations, granted a pension. 48. —Compound fractnre of the left parietal bone:—E. Isobe, aged 26, captain's steward of the Hashidate. At the time of the battle of the Yellow sea, he was assigned the duty of stretclier-bearer, while standing at the left side of tlie turret of the bow-gun, a shell burst in it, one of the fragments inflicting a lacerated wound 3 cm. long, over the left parietal eminence. The wound reached down to the bone, separating the periosteum and breaking the outer table of the bone, but with- out cerebral symptoms at all. An antiseptic dressing was applied ; the patient was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At the time, edges of the soft part of the wound were lacerated, and a free fragment of bone was recognised at the bottom. So the hair of that part being shaved and antiseptic precaution being taken, the sequestrum was extracted; an iodoform gauze was applied; and the case pro- gressed favourably. By October 22nd, granulation had developed so as to wholly cover the bone, and by November 20th, the pus discharge had entirely ceased ; granu. lation grew smooth and contracted, ointnnent of boracic acid was applied ; and the cicatrix formed on December 10th. He left the hospital completely recovered on the 14th of the same month. 49. —Compound fracture of head and right upper extremity with penetrating wound of abdomen :—Asao, aged 27, ISub-Lientenant of the Yoshino. In the battle of the Yellow sea, he was standing in the stern of the upper deck, on the port side, in command of shell carriers, when a hostile shell came through the starboard netting and hitting two 12 cm. shells arranged on the deck exploded all three at once. One of the tlying fragments struck him in the middle of the forehead breaking the bone as follows :—length 15.5 cm., width 6 cm. and extending to the vertex over the coronary suture ; a part of the brain escaping from the wound. Other fragments inflicted two contused wounds, each of the size of one sen copper coin : one about the middle of the outer side of the right upper arm, and one on the back of the right elbow joint breaking the olecranon process and tiie internal condyloid eminence of the humerus. Again, a penetrating wound 3 cm. in diameter was inflicted on the left side of the epigastric region. He became quite unconscious ; respiration was feeble, indicating little vitality. He was taken directly to the surgery on the lower deck and given perfect rest, but he expired about an hour after the accident from coma.