17.3 lyjURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. vessels. Conditions of the wounds : On the outer and front part of the right thigh, at the part 15 cm. below the crest of ihum, was found a large wound of an irregular square shape, 13.4 cm. long and 8 cm. wide, and 4 c.pi. apart from it downward and backward existed another wound almost of the same size. Both wounds com- municated with each other beneath the skin which was as it were a bridge ; the margins of the wounds were mutilated into a ragged state, and the muscular sub- stances wei'e deeply severed, presenting a crater-like shape; tlie feninr was obliquely broken below the great trochanter and several pieces of broken bone were found in- serted in the muscles. In the neighbourhood of the wound, the right lumbar region, the buttocks, back of the left thigh, and the left knee sustained burns of the 2nd degree, the right hand was mutilated at the wrist-joint and scarcely hung by the skin and muscles of the ulnar side. Bleeding was not severe from the beginning, and had entirely ceased by this time. After proper dressing, the patient was removed on board the transport Genkai-maru. On the 19th, the right fore-arm was amputated at its lower third by the circular method, and the flap was sutured. As to the broken right femur, its sharp ends were saAved away, and five pieces of broken bone were extracted from the wound at the same time, and dressed with sublimate gauze aiid fixed by Liston's long outside splints. To the burns oiled lint was applied. On the 21st, the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At this time, the wounds on the thigh presented a dark grey colour, the skin and muscles were sloughed and emitted an offensive smell. The sloughs were scraped off, and iodoform sprinkled ; attentions being specially paid to administration of tonics and nutritious diets. On the 28th of the same month : the skin spanning between the two wounds having sloughed, it was cut off, so that they were turned into a single wound. On October the 1st, the burns of the various parts healed, and the stump of the forearm performed the first union ; and the granulation in the wound of the thigh grew heal- thy emitting no longer an offensive smell. However, the periosteum of the lower segment of the broken femur was extensively stripped off, so as to extend almost down to the lower third of the thigh; the muscles around the bone had a baglike shape, in which pus was accumulating. The temperature rose to 38°C., and the symptoms of traumatic delirium set in. Thus conservative measures were hopeless, so on the 2nd, the thigh was amputated in its upper part, forming lateral flaps. The operation was finished in 30 minutes, but the patient soon showed signs of collapse. Im- mediately a subcutaneous injection of camphor and ether was administered, and