210 BURXS. with black scabs, the forehead, neck, right arm, left forearm aucl the outer side of the right thigh were deeply eroded so that the deeper tissues were reached. The wound of the left leg measured 5 c. m. in depth and discharged pus. The temperature was 37°.5 C. Burns were washed with boracic lotion and wet boracic lint was applied ; and a mixture of bark and brandy administered internally. On the 21st, the tem- perature was 38°2., the patient complained of intense thirst and anguish. Dressings were daily renewed ; ice was given from time to time. On the 28th, the sloughs at several parts having been cast off, red granulating surfaces were exposed. Since the preceding day, the temperature returned to the normal degree and the pain much lessened. On October Gth, the wound of the left leg healed by cicatrix ; and the burns of the face, ear-lobes, neck, shoulder and the left forearm were all healed ; the burns of the forehead, right side of the neck, etc., which were deeply eroded developed granulations, the areas become narrower by degrees ; the temperature remained normal. On the 18th, the forehead and right side of the neck formed cicatrices, and there was an inclination to a wry-neck owing to the contraction of cicatrix, so the neck was kept straight by means of a paste board splint. Afterwards nearly the whole of the burned parts and the Avouud scar of the left leg formed cicatricial keloid ; con- sequently the wry neck towards the right side greatly hindered the movement. The right lower eye-lid was everted, and the corner of the mouth drawn towards the right and downward, the face became exceedingly ugly studded with scars. The right elbow joint could not be extended beyond 120° ; the index, middle and ring fingers on the same side were much hindered in the movements. Also the left middle finger stif- fened so that it Avould not be bent at all; and the ring finger at the 1st phalangeal joint, and the little fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal and at the 1st pliangeal joints were stiftened at right angle to the palm. The upper limbs were greatly im- paired in their function, and the cicatricial parts were the seat of inieasy sensa- tion of itching, and this sometimes prevented sound sleep. Disabled for service, he was on March 16th, 1895, invalided for life and granted a pension according to the regulation. (Of the two illustrations produced here, one is of the burns at the time of admission, and the other is a stereotype of the cicatricial keloid from the photograph taken after recovery). 335.—Burns of the face and limbs :—^S. Hayashi, aged 23, a member of the magazine party of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was engaged in lifting shells from the magazine in the fore part of the lower deck, when a 30.5 c.