78 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. lower deck. Some of the pieces struck his head aud scattered the brain substance, so that death was instantaneous. 71. —-H. Nishihara, aged 21, one of the crew of No. 9 gun of the Hiyei, in the fight of tlie Yellow sea. While firing the gnn, a shell passed through the starboard sea-port on the stern ; and during its passage to the stern port, he was struck by the shell and had all his skull mutilated except the base, so that the cranium as well as the brain were blown off. He died immediately. 72. —S. Nakamuta, aged 2i, one of the crew of No. 5 side-gun of the Akitsnshima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was carrying shells in the neighbonrhood of the starboard No. 5 side-gun on the waist-deck, when a shell exploded against the shield of tliat gun, and one of the fragments, smashed his cranium so that the brain was scattered. He died immediately. 73. —Y. Karikawa, aged 22, one of the crew of No. 5 side-gun of the Akitsu- shin:a, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was gathering empty cartridges on the fort of the starboard No. 5 side-gun of.the waist-deck (in a bent posture), when a shell exploded against the shield of that gun. One of the fragments completely destroyed his skull. 74. —^H. Sakamoto, aged 40, Commander of the Akagi, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was inspecting the chart on the chartstand of the bridge, when a shell came through the stern and burst against the stand of No. 1 Q. F.-gun on the star- board side of the bridge. He was struck by one of the broken pieces, on the posterior part of the parietal region, so that whilst the face and cranial base Avere spared, the whole vault of the skull was destroyed and his brain completely dashed out and scattered. Death was instantaneous. 75. —^K. Nagatomi, aged 28, a cook of the Akagi, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was busy turning the Downton pump, in the fore part of the upper deck, when a fragment of a shell came through the starboard side, destroying the upper half of his cranium, leaving the lower half of the occipital bone. 7G.—^K. Yasuoka, aged 35, senior blacksmith of the Akagi, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was, as one of the fire brigade, standing in the fore part of the lower deck, when a shell burst there. One of the broken pieces struck his head, and almost entirely destroyed it, leaving only a part of the occipital bone and lower jaw. He died immediately. 77.—K. Shimada, aged 21, one of the crew of the small-calibred machine gun