105 INJURIES OF THE XECK. peck, a hostile shell knocked through the torpedo-chamber in the larboard-waist, the severed fragments of the wood inflicting a penetrating wound on the right side of the neck below and behind the mastoid process ; also burns of the first degree, extend- ing from the right side of neck to the right shoulder were inflicted by the explosion of the shell. Besides, small abrasions at the upper and lower parts on the outer sides of the right arm and fore-arm were sustained. A temporary dressing was applied in the ship, and the injured was sent to Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 20th. On admission the burns had already healed ; the wound on the right side of the neck measured 3 cm. in depth and discharged pus. On probing the wound two small wooden splinters were found and extracted. The wounds were washed with a carbolic lotion, and bandaged with sublimate gauze. On the 25th all the abrasions of the right arm had healed, but the lesion of the right side of neck presented unfavourable granulation, with copious discharge. On October 10th, the granulation of the neck wound was somewhat improved, though the discharge was still copious. About tlie middle of November the discharge began to decrease and the granulation developed favourabJy. On January 15th, 1895, cicatrization was at last accomplished, and the patient left the hospital on the 20th. (B). IN.JUKIES OF THE DEEP PAETS. 127. —Penetrating wound of the neck :—M. Imai, aged 22, a cook on board the Itsakushima. In the battle of the Yello w sea on September 17th, 1894, was acting as a magazine party of 32 cm. gun, while he was passing along the front part of the upper deck, a shell exploded through the larboard netting in the fore part of the ship. One of the fragments penetrated through the trachea and oesophagus ; at the same time, severing the right carotid artery. Death was immediate from copious bleeding. 128. —Perforating wound of the neck with destruction of the left eye ball:—C. Sato, a member of torpedo magazine of the Itsukushima, aged 23 ; at the battle of the Yellow sea, on September 17t]i, 1894, was in the fore-torpedo-chamber, when a hostile shell exploded against the boom for the use of the starboard torpedo net; some of the shell fragments entered the said chamber after smashing the ship's side and inflicted a perforating wound on the right side of the neck, which took the passage beneath the sterno-mastoid from the right side of the thyroid cartilage, perfo- rating the second cervical vertebra. The cornea and sclerotic of the left eye were destroyed, the lens escaping. There were besides several burnt patches on various