197 IXJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. on the eastern forts of Liukung Island, February 9tli, 1895, while commanding the bow-gun, had his left foot pressed on by one of the hind wheels in the reooil of the gun. On examination, over the dorsum of the 4th and 5tli metatarsals of the foot, a slight swelling and subcutaneous extravasation were found, with pain, but no lesion of bones. Lead lotion was applied and rest ordered. On the 16th, the extravasated part broke, producing vesicles. Carbolic gauze was applied, and on the Ist of March he had quite recovered. 299.—Abrasion of the right foot:—I- Oshima, aged 28, one of a gun-crew on the Hashidate, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was firing the Hotchkiss gun, on the port fore-quarter on the upper deck, when a hostile shell burst in the turret of the bow gun. One of the shell fragments caused an abrasion 1.5 cm. in diameter upon the tendo Achillis of the right leg. By the application of corrosive gauze the wound healed by scabbing on the 20th. 800. —Contused wound of the right foot:—M- Takashima, aged 28, Lieutenant of the Hiyei, during the battle of the Yellow sea, was, as commander of the port battery, passing along the port fore quarter of the upper deck, when a shell came over the starboard waist netting and burst against the stanchion of the port booms. A small shell fragment struck him just below the inner malleolus 6f the right foot, and caused an irregular round wound 1 cm. in diameter and measuring only 6 m.m. in depth. Corrosive gauze was applied. On the 21st, the wound was completely healed by first intention. 801. —Contused wound of the right foot with punctured wound of the left leg:—S. Y'oshimura, aged 31, a gunner of the Akitsushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, Avas inspecting the stern gun, when a shell broke the lower part of the shield, then struck, and glanced off the deck. A wooden splinter wounded him on the right foot. On examination, there was found a lacerated wound between the 3rd and 4th toes running backwards along the sole of the foot; it reached the metatarsals, stripping off the periosteum, and severing the small arteries. Another lacerated wound, 6 cm. in length, extended along the outer border of the same foot from the root of the little toe. Besides, on the inner and back part of the the left calf there was a lacerated wound caused by a small wooden splinter. It was, however, shallow, being only of subcutaneous depth, and the splinter was extracted. Hemorrhage was checked, the wounds washed, and antiseptic bandage applied. On the 19th, the patient was removed on board a homeward