KAK'KE. 463 Then observe the prisons throughout the Empire, and the naval station at Yokosuka. The present buildings are identically the same with those of the former days, and have quite as many inmates as in the days of the kak'ke prevalence, yet the disease has almost been ex- tirpated since the advent of the new dietary system. The re-appear- ance'of the disease consequent on the revival of rice-diet in the Niigata prison will confirm our opinion. Again, in some factories, a part of the laborers are boarded in the premises while the rest are day-laborers living in their own houses. There have been many instances where kak'ke prevailed among the boarders oidy, while the day-laborers have been quite free from the atfection ; and this occurred in spite of the tact that these tw^o classes had to work together in the same place for the same length of time. This can only be accounted for by the difference of food they used, and clearly shows that kak'ke has no in- fectious character. !N^ext, it is a well recognised fact that men are far more liable to kak'ke than women, as can be proved by comparing the numbers of cases occurring every year among both sexes. This we believe is because tliere are d^mparatively few women living under such unfavorable conditions. If more women were placed in similar circumstances with men, they would suffer Cjuite as frequently ; of late years, in consequence of the development of our industry, factories have been springing up in which women are chiefly employed, where the women nve lodged and boarded in the premises. In such places, kak'ke makes frequent inroads. This has also been the case with girls in boarding schools and similar institutions. All of these instances go to justify our opinion. Now let us turn our observations to instances of kak'ke pre- valence in foreign countries : these will strongly support our argu- ment that kak'ke owes its origin to rice. The outbreak of the disease among the settlers in New Caledonia is believed by some to have been