BLIXD AND PEXEI'RA'I'IXG WOUNDS. 5th example :—Both legs were mutilated by a sliell, aiul at the same time a large blind wound was inflicted on the thigh, in which 3 large fragments of the fmmel casing were retained. Ti;e injured man expired in a short while. (No. 290.) If 12 blind and penetrating Avounds by ii"<:>n pieces be proporti<^ned to 60, the total number of varicius wounds occasioned by the same cause, they will bear a ratio of 20.00 per cent, which is riot half so large as 41.67 per cent of the contused wounds, and is a little larger than 16,67 per cent of the abrased wounds. This is because as iron- pieces are not throAvn about Avith mucli \'elocity, those Avhicli have a large bulk may indeed acquire force in consequence of their weight, but their size Avill prevent them from penetrating ; and those fragments which are small and capable (^f penetrating, lack Aveight and conse quently force. Therefore, it is not often that any kind of iron-pieces penetrates the tissues. This is the reason Avhy they frequently produce such injuries as contused Avounds rather than penetrating ones. In the 1st example above mentioned, the Avound orifice AA'as as wide as if it had been produced by an iron-piece flying obliquely ; and the Avound reached the costal cartilage without injming it; and in the 2nd example the iron piece Avedged itself into the clavicle Avithout parting- it completely. All these facts prove that iron-pieces are generally very weak in force. Besides, Avith the exception of the 3rd example of blind and penetrating Avounds, there was not a case in which a bone was broken. This is because those fragments Avhich penetrated into the tissues Avere small and wanting in force. IIoAvever, Avith contused wounds caused by iron-pieces, there are many cases attended Avitli fracture of bone. This is because some of them had a srreat Aveiofht and force owing to their size though their shape prevented them from penetrating into the tissues. The 3rd example lacks a minute record of the conditions of the Avound orifice &c., so that we can not explain