INJURIES OP THE HEAD. 70 of the mutilated shield destroyed the upper half of his frontal bone and mutilated the left forearm. He died on the spot. 47.—Compound fracture of forehead with burns of face:—U. Hattori, aged 31, a petty officer of the Hiyei. During tlie engagement in the Yellow sea, he was standing at his post at the relieving-tackle in the cabin on the stern of the lower deck, when a sliell burst in the next ward-room, splintering the walls and deck. He sustained a lacerated wound, running obliquely upwards from the upper part of the left orbital ridge; at the same time he got a burn from the exploding flame which extended over the right half of the face. All the surgeons of tlie vessel having being killed by the same shell, he had to be temporarily dressed by his mates, and received treatment for the first time on the following morning when the vessel cast anchor in the station near Cape Clioppeki. The condition of the wounds was as follows : the lacerated wound on the left side of tlie forehead was 7 cm. long in S-shape, in depth it reached to the bone, resulting in the crack of that bone. The burn on the right half of the face was of tlie first degree. The patient complained of a marked loss of the left eye sight. Antiseptic dressing was applied, and he was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st of the same month. When examined on admission, the pupil of the left eye was dilated and the htemorrhage of the retina was found to be such that objects could hardly be distinguished by the patient. A wet compress of boracic lotion was applied to the eye ; a carbolic gauze to the wound of the forehead, and boracic acid and olive oil to the burn. The burn healed on the 13th day following, and the head wound was almost healed, but the symptoms of the left eye remained unchanged. He was removed to the Kure Naval Hospital and on October 7th, the sight of the left eye had somewhat improved, the vision 20 showing and the visional field being 12° above, 15°.7 below, 13°.8 outward and 14°.5 inward. The fundus presented marked hemorrhagic patches. The vision of the right eye was not much interfered with but the field was markedly contracted viz: 14°.7 above, 17°.5 below, 17°.7 outward and 16°.8 inward. The wound of the forehead was contracting by the development of granulation; internally, iodide of potassium was administered. From that time the wound gradually healed up with an ugly cicatrix on the left forehead. However, the sight of the left eye was not im- 20 proved, the vision still remained so that the fingers could hardly be counted at a distance of 4 feet; the field of vision was decreased to 20° (above), 30° (below), 30° (inward), and 20° (outward). Thus being disabled for the service, he was invalided