285 WOUNDS WITH LOSS OF TISSUES. rhage was not copious the healing process Avas slow, and compara- tively a long time was required for the treatment. (6) Wounds with loss of tissues are 4, one caused by the slant- ing blow of a shell ; the other three by fragments of shell. The ■wound caused by a sliell was a large one, extending between the crest of the riglit ilium and the costal arch, and covering an area 15 cm. in transverse and 9 cm. in vertical diameter. The soft tissues Avere torn off in an oval shape leaving an irregular bruised margin. A few days after the injury, which was sustained on Feb- ruary 7th, the skin around the wound became sloughy and the wound suppurated. At the time of admission to the Sasebo Naval Hospital, the wound had increased in size, but under treatment, it gradually improved, the granulation looked healthy and the Avound was progressing favourably, when on June 10th, the temperature suddenly rose to 38°.4 C. attended with chilliness, and the wound showed two yellow patches each about the size of a two sen copper and speckled with blackish spots The dis- coloured granulation was then examined under the microscope, and numerous strep- tococci were noticed. The discolored parts were painted with a 10 per cent solution of carbolic acid, followed by a wet carbolic compress saturated with 3 per cent solution. On the 11th, the temperature became normal, and the discoloration somewhat abated. The former treatment was continued, and by the 14th, the granulating surface was restored to liealthy state, not a single coccus being visible. However, on the 19th, the same discoloration again set in, attended by pus discharge, rise of temperature and growth of streptococci. So the same treatment was repeated which restored the granulation to a healthy condition on the '24th. From that time the healing was rapid and on July 12th, 4 pieces of skin were grafted, and the wound was completely healed on August 23rd. (No. 159.) The 1st case : The wound caused by shell-fragment was an injury which carried off the skin and muscular tissues over an area 18 c. m. long and 12 c. m. wide on the calf of the right leg. At the bottom of the wound, a deep muscular layer was exposed but the posterior tibial artery fortunately escaped injury. The hfemorrhage was slight, but in addition to the above wound, the man had sustained a perforated wound in the lower part of tlie left thigh. At the time of admission to the Sasebo Naval Hespital, the wound suppurated, the bruised tissues became sloughy, and the pain was intense. On the 28th of the same month, the mortified parts came entirely off,