INJURIES OF THE FACE. 88 the iuflammatiou of the left eye was entirely subdued yet there was uo sign of recovery of the eye sight. On examining the fundus a haemorrhage of the retina was recogniz- ed. After the 23rd, internal administration of iodide of potassium and injection of pilocarpine were tried. On November 13th, the canal of the perforated wound of the eft arm was clo sed at its middle part, the openings at both ends being also filled with Igranulation ; the surface of the facial lesion grew even, and the discharge from the nose and mouth entirely ceased. On December 18th, the facial wound healed, a cicatrix the size of a 10 sen. coin being formed. On January 2nd, 1895 the wound of the arm, as well as the fracture of its external condyloid eminence, had healed ; the left arm however was emaciated, with much loss of grasping power, and on movement of tlie elbow joint, pain was felt along the ulnar nerve. The anaesthesia of the left cheek and lips still continued as before. The sight of the left eye was less than -j-^y and he could hardly count fingers at a distance of 4 feet. Thus being unfit for active service ; he was permanently invarlided on February 9tb and granted a pension accord- ing to regulation. 104. —Compound fracture of the lower jaw :—S. Koj-ama, aged 26, one of the crew of the 17 cm. gun on tlie port side of the Fuso. In the battle of the Yellow sea, he was at rest, sitting cross legged, on the port side of the funnel casing, when a shell burst through the lower part of tlje funnel, scattering the fragments, and one of them inflicted a compound fracture of the right side of the lower jaw. The wound was dressed temporarily and he was admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital on September 21st. On admission, the condition of the wound was as follows :—it was a lacerated wound 4 cm. long and 2 cm. wide, extending from the right angle along the in- ferior border of the lower jaw. The mai-gins of the wound were remarkably severed, presenting a ragged appearance and being wide open. The horizontal portion of the maxilla was crushed to pieces, and was retained in Sitii by means of the periosteum and muscle. The broken pieces were removed and the wound was closed with iodo- form gauze. On the 27th, two more pieces became loose and were extracted, one being the size of the tip of the thumb and the other that of the index finger. The move- ments of the jaw were not interfered with, and the wound progressed favourably and healed by the formation of a cicatrix on October 27th. 105. —Bullet wound of the lower jaw :—S. Kawada, aged 27, a seaman of the Naniwa. On March 24th, 1895, while reconnoitring a native house in the Pesca- dores, on duty with a landing party, he was, suddenly shot by a rifle at a distance of