INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 153 the admiralty, Her Majesty the Empress granted him au artificial limh, and he was discharged from the service. Ke is pensioned according to tlie regulations. (Tlie artificial limb granted is shown in the illustration.) 225. —Fracture of the left fore-arm and left 3rd rib with burns of face &C.:—T- Slhnozald, aged 34, a gunner of the Hashidate, in the course of the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing in the fort of the 32 c. m. gnn on the fore part of tlie npper dech, wlien a shell of the enemy burst against tlie inner surface of the gnn-shield and tlie sliell-fragments inflicted two blind wounds each 1.2 c. in. long at a part 5 c. m. above the wrist-joint in the front of the loft fore-arm. The margins were lacerated, the wound „ , reached to the bone, breaking the radius, and within the wound Fig. 9. Frngment ° of shell extracted was a cubical shell-fragment (see figure 9.) 1.5 cm. in diameter, from the wound of ^^.^^ extracted. Besides, over the sternal end of the left the left fore-arm. tbird lib was found a contused wound ; with the fracture of the same costal cartilage beneath the skin. On the right side of the face, there was a burn of the second degree, and many minute shell-fragments and powder grains were seen in the rigbt temporal region, the right luembrana tympanum was also ruptured. Temporary measures Avere given for relief on board, and the patient was, on the 21et, conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the hospital several broken pieces of bone were extracted from the wound of tbe fore-arm, and very small shell-frag- ments more than ten in number were likewise removed from the temporal region. The wounds were dressed under strict antiseptic measures. The fracture of the rib cartilage was fixed with strips of adhesive plaster, and the rent of the right tympanic membrane stuffed with an antiseptic cotton plug. On December 10th, the Avound on the temple had healed, and the fracture of the rib cartilage united, but the per- foration of the menibrana tympanum was not closed yet. and the hearing Avas impair- ed but Avithout any discharge of pus. On April 3rd, 1895, the Avound on the left fore- arm had healed, but the movements of the Avrist joint Avere greatly interfered with ; the perforation of the tympanic membrane still remained unliealed. However, the patient had recovered sufficiently to enable him to return to duty. (F). INJUEIES OF THE HAND. 226. —Contused wound of the left palm:—C. Ishii, aged 36, a petty officer of the Matsushima, in the course of the engagement of the Yellow sea, was carry-