151 INJURIES OF 'J'HE UPPEK EXTEEMITY. plate at the entrance of the room. Some of the iron fragments inflicted a perfoi-ating wound of the right fore-arm and an abrased wonnd of the left leg, and burns on tlie right side of tlie face by explosion gas. Eelieving measures were taken temporarily, and the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the UOth following. On examination, on the outer side of the left fore-arm at a point 3 c. m. below the elbow joint, two orifices were found communicating beneath the skin. A probe reached the radius, but no lesion of bone nor existence of foreign body was discover- ed. The margins of the wound were somewhat swollen presenting a purplish colour. On the outer side of the middle of the left leg were found an abrasion, and a burn of the second degree on the right side of the face. Corrosive gauze was applied to the wounds, and to the burns wet boracic dressing. By October 13th, the burns of the face and the abrasion of the leg had healed. But the wound orifices of the left fore- arm contracted and led to an accumulation of pus, so an incision was made. Consequently, pus was discharged freely, and favourable granulation developed. On December 7th, cicatrices formed, but the adhesion of muscles to the bone prevented rotation and pronation of the fore-arm. Local bathing and active movements were en- couraged, and on the 19th following, though the movements of the injured limb were not completely restored, yet being adjudged able for service, he was ordered to return to duty. 223.—Fracture of the right ulna and the first phalanx of the right ring finger;—F. Nagasaka, aged 23, one of the crew of the No. 7 gun of the Hiyei, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was firing from the fort of the gun on the starboard quarter deck, when a hostile shell came through the ship's side just behind the gun. The flying wooden splinters inflicted fractures of the right ulna and ring finger. Temporary relief was given on board, and the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st of the same month. Conditions of the wounds :—The right fore-arm was much swollen, especially below the middle part, and at the junc- tion of the middle and lower third of the uhia crepitation was felt. Besides, on the back of the first phalangeal joints of the right ring and little fingers, as well as on the upper arm small contused wounds were found. There was also a fracture of the first phalanx of the ring finger. The fore-arm was encased with plaster of Paris bandage. On the 30th following, the contused wounds on the right arm and index finger healed. The swelling of the fore-arm subsiding the plaster bandage became loose, so it was replaced by a splint. The same day the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval