66 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. presented graimlation with a slight discharge of pus. As a result of injury to the head there was anfesthesia and paralysis of the right side of the face, so that he could not close the right eye nor protrude the tongue perfectly. Speech was consequently difficult; there was also paresis of the extremities of the right side. This was perhaps owing to the fracture of the inner plate Ox the parietal bone. After admission to the hospital the wounds were dressed antiseptically, and iodide of potassium was given internally. On the 30th he was removed to the Kure Naval Hospital where he was completely cured of tlie wounds as well as the paralysis and left the hospital on December 6tli to resume his duty. 39. —Contused wound of the right parietal bone and contusion of the right shoulder:—K. Sera, aged 28 years 11 months, a seaman of the Saikyo- maru : in the battle of the Yellow sea while he was firing, 47 m.m. q.f. gun on the port side of the foi-e part of the upper deck, at the hostile torpede-boats, a shell flew in from the starboard side, and tore oft' the derrick of the fore-mast, a wooden splinter injured him on the liead and shoulder. On examination, there were superficial contused wounds on the right parietal region and over the spine of the right scapula. Iodoform was sprinkled on the head wound and spirits of camphor was applied to the scapula. The wounds healed by the '21st. 40. —Contused wound of the right temporal region :—Y. Shimizu, aged 30 years and 8 months, a gumier attached to the No. 7 gun of the Hiyei: while he was in the battery of No. 7 gun on the starboard side of the quarter deck, engaged in firing at hostile vessels in the same battle, a shell perforated the bulwark just behind the gun-port, the wooden and iron platings being thus smashed. One of the wooden splinters inflicted a contused wound 1.5 cm. in length, 1 cm. in width, and 1.5 cm. in depth, which ran down towards the back from the fore and upper part of the right temporal region. Bleeding was not profuse, the temporal artery having escaped injury. Corrosive gauze was applied ; and by the 20th of the same month, a small spot of suppuration was found on the surface of the wound; granulation however was red and well developed. The wound was washed with carbolic lotion to remove the pus and then covered with corrosive gauze. By the 25th, the surface of the wound had diminished in size and by October 2nd, had healed by cicatrization. 41. —K. Takenishi, aged 21 years 10 mouths, seaman of the Hiyei: in the battle of the Yellow sea, he was engaged as a magazine-man in lifting shells at the entrance