INJURIES OF THE ABDOMIXAL AXD LUMBAR .REGIONS. 126 168. —Perforating wound of abdomen :—S. Nalcano, aged 39, Lieutenant Commander of the Tenryii, during the bombardment of Liukung Island on Februar^^ lltb, 1895, was standing on the commanding tower on the starboard side of the bridge, when a hostile sliell exploded, striking the No. 2 port gun at the middle of the upper deck; by one of the fragments of shell that flew up to the bridge, he was pierced tlu'ough the abdomen and thrown overboard : death was iustantaueous. 169. —E. Nagata, aged 28, Lieutenant of the Akitsushima, iu the battle of the Yellow sea, was commajiding the port l)attery, standing b}' No. 6 side-gnu on the port side of the waist-deck, when a hostile shell exploded, hitting the shield of No. 5 side-gun on the starboard ; by some of the fragments of shell, he was pierced through from the abdomen to the loins, and in couseijuence of a profuse haemorrhage and of the shock, expired on the spot. 170. —M. Shida, aged 28, a guuner of No. 5 side-gun of the Akitsushima, iu the Ijattle of the Yellow sea, was firing No. 5 side-gun on the starboard of the waist- deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the shield of that gun. Oue of the broken shell-fragujent, inflicted a perforating wound in his abdomen, and he died on the spot owing to heavy ha3morrhage and the shock. 171. —Perforating wound of lumbar region :—T. Hashiguclh, aged 24, Midshipman of the Akagi, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was on the fore top measuring the distances of the hostile vessels, when a shell from the enemy pierced him from the loin to the abdomen, breaking the lumbar vertebrfe and pelvis. Owing to the grent hjemorrhage caused by the rapture of the abdoniinal aorta, he died on the spot. 172. —Perforating wound of the lumbar region with blind wound on the back:—Mumabuchi, aged 26, a carpenter of the Akagi, iu the battle of Yellow sea, was stationed as a tire-brigademan on the fore-part of the lower deck, when a hostile shell exploded on that deck. One of the fragments inflicted munber- less wounds in the back, and a perforating wound in the loins, with the fracture of the lumbar vertebrfe, causing a heavy lifemorrhage. He was killed on the spot. 173. —Perforating wound of the lumbar region with lacerated wound of the leg:—K. Fukuhara, aged 24, one of the crew of No. 1 short 7.5 c. m. gun of the Fnso, in the course of the bombardment of Zhih Island February 7th, 1895, was standing by the side of No. 1 7.5 cm. gun in the fore part of the upper deck, when a hostile shell pierced through the starboard side of the gallant-forecastle