SCALD. 220 for the sicle-gnns exploded, by the flame of explosion he sustained burns on the back, and an abrasion on the left parietal region by a flyhig shell fragment. Being temporarily treated on board, the injured man was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 20th. At the time of admission, the burns on the back had blisters here and there, and the epidermis stripped off exposing sore surfaces from whence serum was oozing. The shell-wound on the left parietal region was of a round shape and superficial and a healthy granulation had developed. The burns were dressed with wet boracic gauze, and the scalp wound with sublimate gauze. Progress was favorable, and the patient completely recovered on October 5tb. 357.—Burns of the thighs :—G- Senokuchi, aged 22, a member of the maga- zine party of the Matsasliima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was hauling up shells in the fore magazine, when a hostile shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck ; at the same time igniting the ammunitions provided for the side-guns, he sustained by the explosion flame, burns of the 1st or 2nd degree on the inner sides of both thighs. They were dressed with oiled lint and completely healed on October 3rd. 258.—-Burns of the right leg :—T. Onodera, aged 29, one of the gun-crew of Yoshino, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was standing by No. 8 gun on the port side of the quarter deck, when a hostile shell entered piercing through the starboard netting, and exploded against the 12 c. m. shells placed along the netting. By the flame of the explosion, he received burns of the 2nd degree on the lower thirdt of the right leg to the dorsum of the foot. The burns were dressed with oiled lint and he was admitted, on the 26th, to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At tlie time, the burns were exposing the congested true skin ; the epidermis having been stripped off and oozing serous eti'usiou. Dressed with wet boracic gauze, he was, on the 30th, transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. He made favorable progress, the burns completely healed and he returned to service on the 28rd of October. lO.-SCALD- 359. —Scald of the whole body:—K- Nakatsuma, aged 41, non-commissioned engineer of the No. 9 torpedo boat. 360. —H. Goto, aged 28, a senior stoker of the same boat as above. 361. —M. Mayeyama-, aged 24, a stoker of the same boat. 362. —C. Tsunamoto, aged 24, a stoker of the same boat.