425 ENTERIC FEVER. 3. —Dishes and other utensils should be washed with boiled water. 4. —Patients suffering from any febrile symptoms sliould be placed in an isolated place. 5. —Quinine should be given to the healthy crew for a time. 6. —The bilge sliall be thoroughly cleansed. 7. —Disinfection of the Avater-closets with lime should be done more strictly. I myself had entertained suspicion of the bilge as stated in the No. G item, for a comparatively large number of patients was found among the stokers, but at the Important time of the war, being on the duties of defence and reconnoitering, we hnd even while at anchor to keep fire and put on watches, there was tlierefore no time to cleanse the bilge. Avaihng ourselves therefore of a ship bound liome, I liad sent a quantity of the bilge-water to the Sasebo Naval Hospital for examination. And also the water in the ship's tanks tliat had been made use of were sent to the Hospital for the same purpose. After the 24th, the items resolved upon, were carried into practice as far as possible, yet pressed by tlie urgent necessity of returning liome to undergo disinfec- tion, tlie ship made preparations for sailing back. By this time, materials for dis- infection having fallen short, the 2nd and 0th items could not sufficiently be carried out; for the 2nd object the tanks were cleansed with boiled water, and for the 6th the closets having been washed were sprinkled with lime. The slup weighed anchor at the Pescadores on the 28tli November, and encountered the monsoon of the Formosan straits, which being pretty strong (even during her stay at the Pescadores, the scuttles could rarely be left open) the ship incHned over at an angle of 30 or 40 degrees. Probably, owing to this, even patients in a convalescent stage showed a rise of temperature, and consequently we had to leave 13 serious cases at the Keelung Army tlospital. On December 2nd, the ship steamed out of Keelung port and ateered for Sasebo. Strange to relate, on and after the next day, that is, December 3rd, the patients on board the ship generally began to improve. This probably had much to do with the change of climate. Slie arrived at Sasebo on December 5tb, ind 17 febrile patients were directly sent to the Hospital. Hereupon I submitted to she Captain the following views about disinfection. 1. —Half the crew at a time shall take a bath, and their clothing be disinfected with steam. 2. —Clothes, books, and other articles (chiefly articles belonging to officers above