338 PERFORATED AVOUXDS. to the eutraiice orifice was sharply cut and bled profusely. There was no injviry to the scapula, vertebrae nor ribs. The wound was completely healed in 4 months. (No. 142.) 19tla instance :—A perforating wound was received in the lumbar region. The lumbar vertebrae were broken, and several small blind wounds were sustained on the back. The person was killed on the spot. The size of the wound orifice was not recorded. (No. 172.) 20th instance :—A perforating wound passing from the occipital region to the middle of the forehead was sustained. The injured man was killed on the spot. The size of the wound was not recorded. (No. 67.) 21st instance :—A perforating wound was received in the uppermost part of the upper arm. The entrance hole was situated in the anterior surface of the arm and constituted a wound with loss of substance in an oval shape 5 cm. in diameter ; the margins were greatly lacerated including the deltoid muscle, and the wound passage found its exit on the posterior surface. The exit had a lacerated form being some- what narrower than the entrance hole, and the severed fibers of the muscle were seen protruding out of it. Also, below the lower margin of the left orbit was sustained a blind wound 1 cm. in diameter, which caused hfemorrhage in the retina. All the "wounds were healed in 3 months after admission to the hospital, but owing to the loss of sight of the left eye, the man was dismissed from the service. (No. 103.) 22nd instance :—A perforating wound was inflicted above the left elbow. The entrance hole was an irregular wound with loss of substance measuring 6 cm. long, and 4.6 cm. wide, and the exit was a lacerated wound 2.7 cm. long. This occurred together with the penetrating wound of the abdominal cavity from the left side of the chest. (See No. 20tli instance of jjenetrating wounds.) From this penetrating wound, the man died 10 days after. Though we can not assert with certainty, yet from the position and size of the wounds in the elbow and chest, they may be regarded to have been caused by one shell-fragment. (No. 162.) 23rd instance :—A perforating wound was received passing from the back of the left ilium to the right inguinal region. The entrance hole was lacerated and about 6 cm. in long diameter. The ilium was greatly damaged and the internal organs were injured, the exit was found above the Poupart's ligament: it was a hole some 8 cm. in length from which the intestines protruded. In the abdomen, several fragments of the bone were found the largest of which was a broken piece of the iliac-crest, 9 cm.