INJURIES or THE UPPER EXTEEMITY. 131 This was extracted and the periosteum was found to be stripped oif and a part of the bone broken. An antiseptic dresdng was appliel. On thj 21st, thi palieut was admitted to Ihe Sasebo Naval Hospital. At that time, the wcuud developed granulation, with a slight snppnratioii. On October 15th, the granulation entirely- covered the surface of the boue, and no probe touched Mic Ixjiio. On the 28tli, he ■was transferred to the Knre Naval Hospital when only a small snvlace of the size of a thumb tip remained, and this was gradually forming a cicatrix. On November 19 th, he left the hospital completely recovered. 100. -Contused wound of the left shoulder with crushed wound of the toes:—-K. Matsnzawa, aged 25, Assistant Engineer of the Itsiikashima, in the course of the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, on September ITth, 1894, was in the after boiler-room, when a hostile shell exploded against the ladder, after knocking through the middle step of the boiler room and piercing through the coal bunker in the waist on the starboard side. One of the fragments of shell inflicted a contused wound at about G cm. below the spine of the left scapula. It was of an irregular square shape about 5 cm. in diameter and lacerated in a star-like form, and reached to the scapula, but without fracturing it. Besides, on the inner side of the right great toe, and on the outer side of the left little toe, were found small lacerated wounds. After temporary treatment had been given, he was, on the 21st, admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time, the borders of the shoulder wound, and especially on the inner side of the scapula were swollen ; on examining the wound, a probe passed upward and outward, measuring i cm., and discharged a little pus. The wounds of the toes had already dried. On the 29th, the inflamma- tion around the wound of the shoulder had subsided; yet the cavity of the wound remained wide, and the granulation was ]iot favourable. Moreover the pus burrowed down forming a cavity ; so a counter opening was made at the part to facilitate the discharge. On October 12th, the temperature suddenly rose -to 39°. SC., and the patient complained of headache, giddiness and thirst. On examining the wound, no remarkal)le change was found and pus escaped freely without accumulation. A dose of calomel was administered and a wet carbolic compress applied to the wound. On the nth, the temperature kept at 40° C, and an erysipelatous patch of the size of tlie palm wns found around the wound. Ichthyol was applied, and the use of wet carbolic compress continued. On the 15th, the temperature stood as high as before ; the area of the erysipelatous patch extended in all directions invading the parts over