INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 132 the upper part of the spine of the scapula above ; the dorsal vertebrse on the right, the posterior border of the axilla on the left and the lower part of the scapula below. Ichthyol was continuously applied, and a mixture of tincture of perchloride of iron and sulphate of quinine was administered internally. On the 16th, the area of the patch still increased, reaching above to the root of the neck, on the left side, to the nipple line beyond the axillary border. It was, however, subsiding below. The wound was clean and the granulation favourable. The quantity of urine in 24 hours was 400 grammes, containing albumen. On the 18th, the erysipelatous patch extended towards the arm, but in the other directions gradually subsided. After the 20th, the extension of erysipelas ceased ; and the quantity of urine increased to 800 grammes. On the 21st, the temperature began to lower : on the 22nd, it fell to normal ; and the patch around the wound had almost faded. On the 26th, the erysipelas was completely healed. The wound of the shoulder continued to progress favourably, and the patient recovered on November 14th, and left the hospital to return to duty. 191. —GrUtter wound of the shoulder :—Y. Nishimura, aged 21, crew of No. 6 Hotchkiss gun of the Akitsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was standing by the No. 6 Hotchkiss gun on the port side on the waist part of the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the shield of No. 5 side-gan on the starboard. One of the fragments of shell inflicted a grooved wound 8 cm. long and 3 cm. deep running transversely over the upper part of the spine of right scapula. The margins of the wound were cut sharp, they were sutured together, and the patient was taken on board a vessel bound homeward on the 19th and was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At this time, the wound had already suppurated, and no hope of the first union was entertained, so the stitches removed and the wet carbolic compress applied. After a time, pus discharged freely, the granulation presented a pale and swollen condition. Iodoform was sprinkled over it and a carbolic gauze applied. By the end of November, the granulation improved ; pus discharge stopped, and a cicatrix gradually formed. On December 5th^ he was perfectly recovered and left the hospital to return to duty. 192. —Perforating wound of the right shoulder and arm with contused wound of face :—S. Tagami, aged 26, crew of No. 7 gun of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1894, was firing the No. 7 guii on the starboard side of the quarter-deck, when a hostile shell pierced through the ship's