309 BLIXD AXD PEXETRATIXG WOUNDS. and upper and lower limbs. These wounds were all healed in two mouths, but ankylosis of the right elbow joint resulted, and the patient was discharged from service. (No. 207.) 23rd example :—At the lower part of tiie right scapular region was sustained a small blind wound which was clogged with rent pieces of cloth. The cloth was extracted, the wound developed healthy granulation and the inlet healed in 2 weeks. A hard body being however felt at the part 3 cm. from the inlet, it was extracted by cutting upon the part, and proved to be a small sliell fragment of a square fovm 6 m.m. in diameter. (No. 141.) 24th example :—A case of b!ind wounds on the inner side of the upper part of the right arm, on the posterior surface in tlie middle of the left forearm and on the ulnar side of the back of the left wrist. At the bottom of each wound were lodged shell fragments. Besides perforated and lacerated wounds were inflicted in various parts of the body and limbs. The wound of the upper arm was healed in due course of time, yet the loss of the use of the lingers consequent on another Avound placed liim on the list of the invalided. (No. 229.) 25th example :—At the middle of the posterior surface of the left leg a lacerated wound was sustained 3 cm. long and 1.2 cm. wide, running obliquely from upwards and outwards, to inwards and downwards. This afterwards suppurated, delaying the healing process. On minute examination, the wound canal had 6 cm. depth in a forward and downward direction, and a hard body was found at the bottom, which on removal, proved to be a cuboid shell fragment 2 cm. in diameter. This was wedged between the tibia and fibula, giving several fissures to the bones but without breaking them entirely. Progress of the wound was favorable and healed in 5 weeks. (No. 287.) 20th example :—A case of blind wound on the left side of the chest, below the nipple. The wound reached to the rib ; but htemorrhage was slight, though the injured person fainted owing to shock. After admission to the hospital, a foreign body was found within the wound, and by enlarging the inlet a small shell fragment was re- moved. The periosteum of the rib was detached but the bone was sound. The iri- cised part was sutured and a drainage tube inserted. Granulation was unhealthy with a slight discharge of pus, the healhig process was very dull, so the granulation was scraped off, but the wound became fistulous and tlie recovery seemed uncertain.