273 COXTUSION, 2iul example.—Case of coutiisiou of the upper part of the right arm, where the skill was abrased, with ecchymotic swelling extending to the shoulder joint with the interference of its movement requiring more than three months before recovery. (No. 197.) 3rd example.—In this instance, the injured person was struck on the right in- guinal region by a shell fragment. As he had, however, a leather tobacco pouch and a pipe of German silver in the pocket of his coat, the fragment tore the pouch as well as the coat, and bent the pipe into a shape like this —" < —•," and stopped there. So happily there occurred nothing more than a <?ontusioii with subcutaneous extravasation of blood. Had it not been for the pipe, there would certainly have occurred a serious penetrating or per- forated wound of the abdomen. (No. 135.) 4th example.—Case of contusion on the 3rd and 4th ribs in front of the chest, which caused extravasation of blood as large as the palm of the hand attended with mai'ked swelling; and then with spitting of blood, cough, sharp pain on deep inspira- tion. Crepitations also were heard in the neighbourhood yet no symptoms of injury to the ribs or cartilages could be seen. When he was admitted to the hospital on tlie 10th day after his injury, the spitting of blood had already ceased and no abnormal conditions of the heart, lungs, and pleura were detected. He recovei-ed before long. Probably there liad been some contusion of the lung though the ribs were not hurt. (No. 257.) Fighting" w'tli .such weapons as are made use of at the present day, we can readily see that materials driven about in a warship such as shell fragments are surprisingly numerous. For instance, the fragments that were found lying about in the Hiyei only, were abundant enough to fill a large chest. At first sight, it might naturally be expected that so large a number of fragments fiying in a vessel would cause a o'reat many cases of contusion as the surface of these frao-ments is often blunt and their velocity is generally somewhat impaired before they strike. Yet the fact is quite the contrary. The total number of various wounds produced by shell fragments was 289 as is shown in table 'No. 2, of which contusions numbered not more than 19, o-ivino'