THE BATTLE OF YAL^^. 14 As soon as anchor was cast in Saselio p irt, surgeons of the hospital came on board the ship immediately with litters, and boats with medical attendants. Those who were injured slightly and could walk were sent to the hospital iirst, and those injured severely were carried under complete protection to the hospital by litters. Thus we finished our responsibility at 1 a.m. of tlie 21st. The Itsukushima. l.—At l p.m., a 21 cm. sheil struck :i boom of torpedo netting, on the fore part of"the starboard side, at the point of o metres above sea level and exploded, making' a hole about l.H m. on tl)e side and entering the torpedo room, damaged a part of the racer and weston tackle ; and here the pieces of shell were scattered in all directions; (he two large pieces making a hole of about oOO m.m. on the port side, and the other pieces killing eight men and woiui<ling three. 2.—At 1.05 p.m., a 15 cm. shell perforated the coal bunk- ers in midship of the starboard side, at (he point of (500 in. m. above sea level ; it passed between the hatcli way of the fore engine room, and the aft boiler room, making a hole of o.3 m. by 0.47 m. in the iron septum l)etween two rooms, and destroyed a ladder between the middle step of tiie aft boiler room and tiie mid-deck, and here the shell exploded ; the pieces of it dispersing in all directions, made two small holes in a fresh water tube u.sed for the ten ton pum[) in the fore boiler room ; two holes in the iron door closing the boiler room, and a small hole in the steam pi[)e of the \entilator for the aft boiler ; they also destroyed a frame of the ventilator, and crushed the spindles for the sluice valve in the l)ottom, l)etween the f)re and aft engine room ; liesides the gratings of tlie upper and middle step ot the aft boiler room, and the middle step of the fore engine, and boiler room were sli<ihtlv dama,G:ed. A stoker in the aft boiler room was killed and Assistant Engineer Matsu/awa injured. —At 1.20 p. m., a 15 c, m. shell perforated the main mast froni the starboard side at the point of 6 metres above the upper deck, and