BLIND A\D PENETRA'l'IXG WOUXDS. 328 5 occarring in 5 persons, except those mentioned below, the rest were punctured Avounds by small wooden splinters. 1st example :—hostile shell glanced off and broke tlie deck fVoiu side to side, when the person happened to be in the neighborhood. Such exposed parts of the body as the face, neck, and hands received numberless tine wooden splinters, so that the skin presented the appearance of a hedgehog ; and at the same moment several large and small contused wounds were inflicted by iron and wooden pieces on the face, neck and limbs. All of them were however, completely heale 1 in two weeks. (No. 98.) 2nd example :—A 30.5 cm. shell exploded in the next room, and a big wooden splinter came flying wedged into the left sacro-iliac joint. The wound orifice was 5 cm. long and 3 cm. wide; the margins were very irregularly lacerated; and the wooden piece at the bottom being firmly wedged into the joint could not be moved when the surgeons tried to take it out. After a time, both legs became paralyzed, and urine passed unconsciously mixed with blood and pus. After admission to the hospital, an attempt was twice made to extract the wooden piece, but being extremly firm, it was only partially pulled out, and v/itli it came broken pieces of the bone. The paralysis of the legs increased, urine and fteces passed involuntarily, and the wound suppurated, the temperature fluctuating between 38° and 39° C. The patient died after 2 weeks from exhaustion. (No. 167.) If the 5 blind wounds caused by Avooden splinters be propor- tioned to 58, the total number of various wounds from the same cause, they bear the ratio of 8.62 per cent, which is much smaller than o9.66 per cent of the contused wounds from wooden- splinters, 22.41 of the abrased wounds from the same cause and 29.31 of the contusions also from the same cause. This is because the scattered wooden splinters lacking in weight and force have not power enough to penetrate into the tissues. The exceptional cases were those in which very fine wooden splinters like tooth-picks stuck int(j the skin. The 1st example above mentioned was no more than one of those cases, it was however remarkable on account of the wonderfully