195 INJURIES OF THE LOWER EX'J'REMITY. small lacerated wounds jnsfc above the inner malleolus of the right leg. The burned part was covered with oiled lint, the lacerated wounds witli sublimate gauze, and the injured joint fixed with a splint. On the 20th, the patient was taken to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Conditions of the wounds :—-The left ankle joint was hot, swollen and painful, preventing walking. As regards tlie burns of the right leg, the epider- mis was entirely stripped off, exposing the Malpighian layer, which was slightly suppurating. The lacerated wounds of the right foot were already healed. The left ankle joint was supported by a splint, and lead lotion applied and the burns were dressed daily with wet boracic lint. On the 5tli October, the discharge from the burns had ceased, and the epidermis had grown in the margins, so the former application was replaced by boracic ointment. The pain in the ankle joint had greatly subsided, yet the swelling still remained. On the 12th the burns were completely healed, and the inflammation of the ankle abated, so mercurial ointment was tried. On November 2nd, the swelling of the ankle joint at last subsided and no pain was felt on pressure, though walking hurt. Tincture of iodine was painted on ; in December, both pain and swelling had nearly disappeared and the patient could run freely. On the 30th, he returned to service. 296.—Simple fracture of the right malleolus witli partial dislocation of the ankle joint, burns of the face and hands:—S. Miyashita, aged 30, senior nurse of the Hiyei, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was bandaging a wounded man in the surgery, on the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. shell exploded in that room. The explosion flame inflicted burns on the face, forearms, and hands ; moreover the shock threw him down on the deck and sprained the right ankle joint. The same shell killed all the medical staff on board the vessel, so he was temporarily dressed by a comrade and was treated by surgeons from other ships, when the ship arrived at the rendezvous near Cape Choppeki next morning. On examination, the whole face was blackened by the flame, the forearms and hands sustained burns of the 2nd degree, also the right ankle joint was swollen and painful, with subcutaneous extravasation. Oiled lint was applied to the burns, and to the ankle joint lead lotion. On the same day, the patient was removed on board the transport Genkai- maru, and taken to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At this time, the burned parts were exposing dermis here and there, the face was covered with black scabs, the lobes of the ears suppurating, and both membrana tympani were found perforated, causing dalness of hearing. As the right ankle was greatly swollen, the exact