INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 74 53. —Compound fracture of the face and base of cranium :—K. Kanai, aged 24, 1st class seaman of the Hiyei, was, during the battle of the Yellow sea, standing in the surgery, where he, as a stretcher-bearer, had carried an injured man, when a 30.5 cm. shell piercing through the starboard side exploded in the room. Some of its fragments, mutilated his face and the base of the cranium. He was killed on the spot. 54. —Compound fracture of the face, base of cranium and both ex- tremities ;—T. Oya, aged 23, a junior carpenter of the Hiyei. In the engagement of the Yellow sea, he was, as a member of the fire-brigade, standing by No. 5 pump, in front of the paymaster's office in the fourth division of the lower deck, when a 80.5 cm. shell exploded in the ward-room in the fifth division. He was hit by some of the flying fragments, receiving a compound fracture, extending from the face to the cranial base and several other wounds on the upper and lower extremities. He died immediately. 55. —Penetrating wound of the cranium :—H. Ota, aged 26, a petty officer of the Itsuknshima. In the same battle, he was on the fore part of the upper deck, when a shell exploded through the netting in the fore part of the port side. One of the broken pieces penetrated his forehead and lodged in the brain killing him on the spot. 56. —Y. Takaliashi, aged 36, Lieutenant of the Hashidate. In the naval fight of the Yellow sea, he was commanding in the tower of the 32 cm. gun in the fore part of the upper deck, when a shell from the starboard after quarter hit against the inner wall of the gun-shield and exploded just over his head. The fragments struck his head causing several penetrating wounds of the skull. He died immediately. 57. —K. Senokuchi, aged 29, Lieutenant of the Hashidate. During the naval battle of the Yellow sea, he stood in the tower of the 32 cm. gun in the fore part of the upper deck, and was about to give orders to aim at a hostile ship, when a shell struck against the inner wall of the shield and exploded just over his head ; pieces of the shell inflicted several penetrating wounds of the skull in the region of the forehead and the temple, which killed him on the spot. 58. —G. Hiroshige, aged 26, a gunner of the 32 cm. bow-gun of the Hashidate. In the battle of the Yellow sea, he was handling the revolving wheel in the tower of the 32 cm. gun in the fore part of the upper deck, when a shell exploded against the