MALAKIAL FEVER. 448 rose to 40.° 5 C. On the forenoon of the 6th following, tlie temperature showed 38.° 2 C, which rose to 40° C. in the afternoon. Thirst was intense; appetite lost, and the tongue covered with white fur, yet about 8 o'clock in the evening, the fever commenced to abate together with headache. The case was diagnosed to be malarial, and 1.5 grammes of quinine was given in two doses. In the forenoon on tlie 7th, the temperature stood at 38° C. and, in the afternoon, at 39.° 4 C. The dull areas of the liver and spleen being examined, they were found to have made no enlargement. From that time, the temperature re- mained somewhere about 39° rising and falling about 2 degrees. The prescribed quantity of quinine having proved inefficacious, it was on the 10th following, increased to 2 grammes which was given in one dose at 2 p.m. the same day. On the 12th, the temperature began to descend to 37.° 5 C. in the forenoon, and 38.° 7 in the afternoon. Headache also abated, but languor of the body ensued attended with loss of appetite, so a stomachic mixture was used in addition. On the 17th the respirations were 24, and an uneasiness was complained of in the chest. On examination, the heart sound was accentuated, bnt there existed no other abnormal physical signs. Urine passed 3 or 4 times a day, and on examination a weak acid in reaction, of brown color, and a specific gravity of 1018 containing slight albumen. On the 20th next day, the temperature returned to normal though only in the forenoon; in the afternoon it indicated 38.° 8 C. How- ever, the temperature of the afternoon also began to descend day after day, so that it became normal on the 28th and remained so through- out the day. The languor of the body still lingered; the appetite returned to a certain degree, and the albumen in the urine was entirely gone on the 29th. A mixture of quinine and iron was now resorted to. After this, the strength of the body and appetite gradually returned to their normal state, and the patient was quite