INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. IGO was directly given on board, and on the 21st, the patient was admitted to tbe Sasebo Naval Hospital. Then atropine Avas dropped into the injured eye and a compress of boracic lotion applied. Antiseptic bandages were applied to the lacerated wound and burns. On October 11th, the lesion of the eye and burns of the left upper arm were healed, but with the lacerated wound of thfe right middle finger there was still pus discharge, and granulation was unhealthy, and the joint became inflamed. A wet carbolic compress was applied to the inflamed joint. On November the 8th, the wound of the middle finger was healed by scabbing ; the inflammation of the joint had also subsided, but the flexion of the joint was not satisfactory, so local bathing and active movement were ordered. On November the 22nd, the patient had per- fectly recovered and returned to duty. 235.—Contused wounds of the left fingers, and left side ol the chest: —K. Matsuo, aged 29, a seaman of the Akagi, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was engaged in firing on the fore-top, when a hostile shell came to the top and burst there. At the moment by the shell-fragments, he was wounded in the chest, left hand and leg, and was stunned by the concussion. He was immediately lowered from the top and carried to the surgery where he was first given a draught of brandy to revive him. Then on examination, circular wounds, respectively 6 m. m. were found located in the 1st phalanges of the left middle and ring fingers ; the bottoms reached the bones, but without incurring any lesion to the periosteum nor to the bones. The borders of the wounds had numberless -black spots owing to the penetra- tion of powder grains. Again on the left side of the chest were two abrased wounds ; and on the inner side at the upper third of the left leg, an abrased wound was noticed. Sublimate gauze, to the wounds was applied and being taken on board a transport on the 19th, the patient was delivered to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. Progress was favorable and by the 30th of the- same month, the wounds of the fingers and chest healed, but the action of the injured fingers was not perfect especi- ally the flexion ; also the wound of the left leg still remained. The same day he was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. Now the power of the injured fingers was gradually returning, and the wound of the left leg improving, he left the hospital on October 24th to return to service. 236.—Contused wound of the left fingers :—K- Miyata, aged 21, a car- penter of the Yoshino, in the course of the Yellow sea battle, a hostile shell hit the starboard side in the fore part, that is, the outer wall of the coal-bunker and exploded