361 LACERATED AXD MUTILATED WOUNDS. upper deck. There exammiiig my wounds myself, I perceived that the two wounds on the head were very sHght, and the chest which I tiiouglit liad been broken, was quite sound ; the left ear gave great pain, and had lost its hearing ; the inner sides of both legs—especially the right one—pained me as if they were broken ; but were only covered with black patches probably caused by the blows of cartridge fragments ; there was a little hfemorrhage from the mouth and nose ; the hair of the head, eye brows, mustache, and hair on the back of hands was burned, but tlie skin was so slight- ly affected, that it could not be said to have sustained burns. I then set myself to ex- tinguishing the fire, together with Tokutaro Nagano who had made his escape by the same gun-port; and afterwards, under the direction of Commander Mukoyama we set the things on board right, and posting ourselves at No. 9 gun, resumed firing. As regards the late seaman I. Sasaki, one of the members of No. 9 gun, there is no reason to assume that his body Avas blown to pieces while he was in the neighbour- hood of No. 9 gun. I was one of that gun crew and did my best to find his corpse. Some persons concluded that he had fallen into the sea while escaping by a gun-port; or been thrown overboard by the ex[)losion gas. But I think otherwise. As third member to No, 9 gun, he was on duty as shell-carrier, and was going possibly to the elevator of the magazine in the fore part at the time of the disaster, and was thus blown to pieces by the explosion of the powder. The elevator, it is true, was in the neighborhood of the starboard batteries, but both deck and elevator were found terri- bly damaged and everything was quite as bad here as at the port batteries. Strange to siy, there were fourteen or fifteen cartridges, provided for No. 9 gun, but though the blanket covering them was blown away, not a single one exploded. It is certain that one of the bomb-shells burst, and its contents lay all over the clothes shelves : The fragments of the bottom of that shell were found behind No. 7 gun, and between No. 7 and 9 guns was found a fragment of the bottom plate of a cartridge, which perhaps belonged to either No. 5 gun or No. 7. Of 40 gun-crews working at the lower deck batteries, only 4 persons, were able to continue working and my lucky escape was considered as a miracle by all. (Answer sent by seaman K. Miyata, member of No. 9 gun in the Matsushima). According to this report, the missing member of No. 9 gun was probably blown to pieces, or thrown into the sea through a port-hole, happening to meet with the explosion as he came near the entrance of