82 INJURIES OP THE I'ACE. 91. —M. Sakaiya, aged 21, a man belonging to No. 2 Hotchkiss gnu of the Fu.so, in the attack of Zhih island on February 7tl), 1895, was standing near the bellows on the upper deck, when a shell perforated the gallant-forecastle and burst. One of the fragments inflicted a small contused wound below the left orbit. When examined, the soft tissues around wero so swollen that the eye-lids closed and could not be separated, but happily without causing any injury to the eye-ball. The lesion was therefore washed with a carbolic lotion and sprinkled with iodoform, then compressed with tight-bandages. The swelling subsided gradually and the wound healed on February 20th by scabbing. 92. —K. Yanagimoto, aged 17, a seaman of the Hiyei, in the naval battle of the Yellow sea on September 17th, 1894, was handling the rudder by the wheel on the quarter-deck, when an enormous shell exploded in the ward-room on the rear of the lower deck. He was thrown down by the shock of the explosion, knocking his head against the bridge and thus sustained a contused wound in the front part of the right ear. All the surgeons on board the ship were killed at once by the same disastrous shell, and he had to be only temporarily dressed with a bandage until next morning when the ship arrived at the station of the squadrons near Cape Choppeki. He was treated by one of the surgeons from another vessel. Conditions of the wound : at the lower margin of the right temporal region—that is, just in front of the right ear, there was a wound 1.5 cm. long and 1.2 cm. Avide, running obliquely backwards and downwards ; the margin of the wound was irregular and the bottom uneven, but no injury was caused to the temporal artery. Carbolic gauze was applied ; and after 4 days the lacerated margin of the wound sloughed. The surface then presented development of granulation. Carbolic gauze was again applied ; the wound progressed favourably, and healed by granulation on October 9th. 93. —Y. Kamiya, aged 21, one of the crew for the No. 9 stern gun of the Hiyei, in the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was engaged in firing by the right side of the gun ; when a shell from the enemy broke through the aft and upper part of the starboard stern gun port. One of the wooden splinters inflicted a contused wound, at the right corner of his mouth, 1.5 cm. long and 6 m.m. wide, reaching the sub- mucous tissue. It was sprinkled with iodoform, and the margin of the wound was closed by adhesive plaster. It healed on the 4tli day by primary union. 94. —J. Kimiya, aged 25, a stoker of the Tenryu, in the bombardment of the eastern fort of Liu-knng island, on February 11th, 1895, was as one of the fire-brigade, stan-