IXJUiUES OV THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. 118 great trochanter of the femur ; in front, abont half an inch above the anterior superior iliac spine ; behind, to within two inches from the lumbar vertebrae. The vertical dia- meter was 10 cm. and the antero-posterior diameter, 15 cm. ; the bottom was exposing muscles and dotted here and there with pustular spots. On the 25th, the granulation was healthy, but in its anterior portion bled freely. The application of iodoform and sublimate gauze was resorted to. The granulation afterwards developed so as to fill tiie wound, yet the growth of epidermis was very slow. On April 12tli, the granu- lation presented trauverse diameter 14 cm., and longitudinal 10 cm.; three small pieces of skin were grafted there. On the 16th, the dressing was renewed, when the skin grafts appeared to be growing ; but snl)seqnent suppuration of the granulating surface prevented their growth. On May 11th, the granulation became healthy and the discharge decreased : tliree pieces of skin grafts were again tried with aseptic precautions. After that the epidermis spread gradually. On June 10th, the temperature rose to 38^.4 G. with slight chilliness. On examination, the wound was found to have a slight discharge of pus, and the granulation to have in two places yellow patclies of the size of a 2 sen copper, speckled with black here and there. When the patches were scraped and examined with a microscope, they showed countless streptococci, but the margin of the wound exhibited no signs of inflammation or suppuration. So 10 per cent carbolic lotion was applied to the patches and a weaker lotion of carbolic compress applied over the granulation. On the 11th, the tempera- tnre fell to normal: though the colony of streptococci were somewhat extended, yet the coloured patches had dimiuislied a little. On the 14th, the colony entirely disappeared but on the lOtli, the surface was again covered, one-third of it being discoloured with copious pus discharge. The use of 10 per cent carbolic lotion was again resorted to. After tlie 24th, the granulation resumed a healthy state, and on July 12tli four bean-sized pieces of skhi were grafted. All these grafts took well and on the 20th August the whole surface was covered with skiu. The injured officer left tlie hospital on the 23rd. ICO.—Concussion of spine and sprain of ankle joints :—H. Kawamm-a, aged 45, Surgeon in chief of the Standing Squadron of the flagship Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow Sea, on September 17th, 1894, was attending wounded cases in the surgery on the fore part of the upper deck, when a 30.5 cm. shell exploded against the shield of No. 4 side-gun on the port side of the fore part of the lower deck, at the same time igniting the ammunition provided for the side-gun. By the shock