168 INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. bad sloughed and the area enlarged. Under appropriate treatment granulation developed but it turned dull, and discharged pus, so that it greatly retarded healing. On March the 30tb, the unhealthy granulation was scraped away, and iodoform sprinkled over. By the end of the month, the granulating surface improved, and pus discharge consequently decreased. On April 19th, the wound was complete- ly healed. 253. —Gutter wound of the left thigh:—D. Sato, aged 35, a Landman of the flagship Matsushima, in the course of the Yellow sea battle, was acting as a carrier of wounded, and was standing in the fore part of the upper deck when a 30.5 c. m. hostile shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck. By one of the fragments of shell he received a grooved wound 3 c. m. long and 5 m. m. wide, in the lower part of the left thigh, penetrating only the subcutaneous tissue obliquely. He was treated on board the ship, and was then transferred to the Hashidate and examined on the 30th following : the middle of the injured part developed favorable granulation, but the edges still presented grayish colour and discharged pus. By the middle of October, the wound developed healthy granulation, pus discharge diminished, and on the 24th, the wound became shallow by granulation with no more escape of pus. Boracic ointment was applied, and on November the 4th, it healed by the formation of cicatrix. ' 254. —Blind wound of the right thigh :—H. Ono, aged 27, a senior clerk on board the Itsukushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was posted as a shell carrier, and was passing by the side of the tower of the 32 c. m. gun in the fore part of the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded piercing through the port netting in the fore part of the same deck. By some of the shell fragments he received two wounds ; a blind wound in the upper part of the right thigh, just below the outer third of the Poupart ligament, which was an irregular lacerated wound 4. 5 c. m. diameter, and 10 c. m. deep towards the back ; and on the inner side of the middle part of the same thigh was a square wound 10 c. m. in diameter, stripped of all the skin. Simple dress- ing was applied on board, and he was taken on a transport bound for home on the 19th, and was admitted on the 21st to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On examination, the wound of the upper part of the thigh was found to take a course backwards towards the posterior inferior spine of the ilium, and to form an abscess there. Therefore that part was cut open, and pus evacuated, also a shell-fragment of an irregular shape 5 c. m. long, 2. c. m. wide and 1. 5 c. m. thick to which a piece of white cloth (part of his