ENTEEIC EEVEE. 415 'tlie quinine the immber of new cases Legan to increase clay by day. The administration of quinine was again resorted to, and probably owing to this measure new cases now began to decrease gradually. Most of the cases iu question presented very irregular remissions, and it was very rare that characteristic symptoms were regularly shown. In a word, many of them were cases of a pernicious remittent type. The temperatures of some cases as in charts Nos. 3 and 5 bore no great resemblance to enteric fever, though this is what they were ; but so long as they were treated on board, presented no such symptoms as stupor, rosy spots, tenderness of right iliac region, nor brownish tongue ; the abdomen also was collapsed with constipation and the skin was moist with perspira- tions. Indeed, there were cases in which paiu in the abdomen Avas complained of, but it was not localized, and came violently with paroxysm, so as to appear like renal colic- Again, there were cases in which the fever remained stationary for 6 to 10 days from the very beginning, and Avould then return after a critical perspiration to normal state, spontaneously or after a single trial of an antipyretic. And though, after from 6 to 12 hours, the temperature rose to its former high degrees, yet there were no symptoms of hiBmorrhage from the bowels, nor collapse. There were also some cases in which the temperature would rise by degrees at tirst, and then without any persistence directly fall by a quick descent and end in recovery. These patients were all sent home by home bound transports and admitted into the hospitals ; therefore the true nature of the cases could not be known until a patient who was sent home, and admitted to Yokosuka Naval Hospital was diagnosed as having enteric fever on the 26th October, the report of which reached the ship on November 22nd. Though in consideration of the symptoms above mentioned, most cases were called remittent fever, yet as there was a suspicion that they might be cases of enteric fever, strict attention was paid as to management of the patients to preventive measures, and to disinfection. From the very beginning, the water-closets used by the patients were strictly set apart, and those cases which closely resembled enteric fever were isolated from the rest their evacuations being disinfected every time by the nurse with a 5 per cent, carbolic solution. Also after the patients had been sent home, their hammocks, etc., were disinfected with the same carbolic. There were two patients Avho showed nervous symptoms, of whom one was sent to the Army Hospital at Keelung, and the other, during the? voyage home, on November 29th, slipped away from his nurse and threw himself overboard. The number of febrile cases from October 1st to December 5th, and their terminations are as follows :—