205 BURNS. passing No. 9 side-gun in the fore part of the lower declc when a 30.5 c. m. shell burst setting on fire the aiumnnition piled near for the use of the side-gun. He sustained burns of the 2nd degree on the head, face, the whole of the right upper limb, the left forearm, both legs, the Avhole of the back, and the whole of abdomen, his burns thus covering about two thirds of the whole body. He was immediately carried to the cabin, and treatment promptly commenced. On the 20th, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At this time—the face was covered with black scabs, the hair of the head singed, and the epidermis on the burned surfaces of the abdomen, back, and limbs stripped off, exposing the dermis ; at other points the cuticle was raised into vesicles with points of suppuration. He was restless, his mind being alternately clear and then clouded by delirium with moments in which he seemed semi-comatous. Temperature 38°. 8 C. The burns were dressed antiseptically daily; internally, a sedative was administered. On the 21st, no change in symptoms ; the thermometer indicated 38" in the morning and 88°. 8 in the evening. In the night a small quantity of urine passed ; on the 22nd the temperature rose to 39°. 6 C. with increased exhaustion, the mind clear, but excited. Stimulants were administered at regular intervals. On the 23rd, at 4 o'clock in the afternoon abrupt unconsciousness supervened with chilling of the limbs. Various measures for restoration such as hypodermic injection of camphor oil, repeated administrations of brandy, hot bottles to the limbs etc., were tried in vain, and at 4. 30 p. m. the patient died from collapse. (The temperature chart shows the state after the admission). 329.—K. Isliihara, aged 23, stoker of tlie Matsushima, during the engagement of the Yellow sea, was in charge of the room for the rudder-gear, in the upper part of the fore engine room, when^ owing to the same explosion, he sustained burns of the 2nd and 3rd degrees on the head, face, neck, right shoulder, chest, back, the whole of the right upper limb, the left forearm and hand, right lower limb, part of the left thigh down to the inner side of the knee, including about two-thirds of the whole body. The injured man was directly carried to the cabin, and temporary treatment applied. On the 20tli, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital, at which time the following history was elicited : Face partialy denuded of the epidermis: the burns of the upper and lower limbs extended into the deep tissues causing a gangrenous state of the soft parts. The rest of the burned parts were of the 2nd degree, exposing the dermis. Temperature was 88°. 8 C: the general strength had failed, and the patient was