33 THE BATTLE OV YALt! about tlic killed and woUiided. Uiil'oi'tuiiately the slu[> s medical i)apers \vei\- almost all lost ill the battle. The nine injured men from our ship that had been sent to the Doyo-maru and Chiyo-maru on the 18lh, were again transferred by order of the flag- ship to the transport Geiikai-marn on the 19th next, to be sent back to the Sasebo naval hospital. Of the sufferers thus conveyed back, 1st class nurse S. Kato died on the Genkai-mara on lier way home to the hospital, 8rd class steward T. Yoshi- liayashi and 4th class seaman J. Umimichi succumbed tn their wounds in the Sasebo naval hospital, and the other two, lird class petty officer fS. Suge and K. TakenisLi, afterwards returned to the ship, having recovered at the Kure naval hospital to which they had been removed. The rest being transferred to the charge of tlie naval barracks, we did not hear any more reports about the progress of their wounds, but I believe they all quite recovered. The seventeen wounded that were treated in the ship all got well so that they could resume their duties aboard. The YoshinO. —uhoul l.OcS p.m., u 15 cm. .shell pierced the starboard netting' (about o.(j meters above the .sea level) on the stern, and strikiiio- two of the shells for 12 e.iii. quiek-firiiii;' gun, that were placed in a row inside the netting, exploded together with the two shells and tore the starboard side ot the (piartei- deck. — that is, the ceilins: of (he wardroom. A iiortion of the fra<'-nients of shell dashed into the wardnx^m. another hit througli one side (.)f the wall of a ventilator on tlie same deck and struck tlirough the porl netting, then striking a 1:^ cm. shell lying inside, exploded it and at the same time set the nettinu' on fire. Bv these sliell frao-ments a man was killed out right, and Sub-i.ieutenant S. Asao with 7 men on the quarter deck and a nurse in tlie wardroom (surgery) were wounded. About one in the afternoon. Midshipman T. Hirai (engaged as assistant to the Chief Navigating officer), in the conning tower at the bow, got his tympanic memln'ane rent bv the slioek accompanying the discharire of tlie forecastle u'un. 2.—About 2.80 p.m., a 21 cm, Ivrupp gun (?) shell exploded against the starboard bow, e.g. the outer wall of the coal bunker