INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 182 was standing by the No. 6 12 c. m. gnu in the larboard waist, when a shell hit the shield of No. 6 3 pounder. One of the shield fragments wounded him on the outer side of the left leg, causing a subcutaneous extravasation with swelling and pain, but without injury to the bone and no hindrance to walking. The injured part was dressed with wet carbolic gauze. By the lOtli of the same month, the extravasations of the parts became absorbed, leaving yellowish patches, and the swelling and pain having disappeared, the wound was healed. 274. —Abrased wounds of both legs :—J. Kodama, aged 26, one of the gun- crew of the Fnso, in the battle of the Yellow sea, Avas firing from the starboard fort in the waist of the upper deck, when a shell struck the iron-pillar on the larboard side of the upper deck and broke it. Some of the flying fragments of the shell and iron, inflicted several small abrased wounds on the outer sides of the right and left legs. Sublimate gauze was applied. On the 2Gth following, the wounds were healed by scabbing. 275. —Abrased wound of the left leg :—S. Numahata, aged 26, a seaman belonging to the Saikyo-maru, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was posted as a crew to the 47 m. m. Q. F. gun, on the port bow of the upper deck, and was firing at a torpedo-boat, when a shell came from the starboard side and smashed the derrick of the fore-mast. One of the wooden splinters inflicted a wound on the right leg. On examination, an abrasion of skin 3 c. m. long in the middle of the front of the leg was found but no lesion of the bone. Carbolic gauze was applied, and the wound had healed by the 20th following. 270.—K. Doi, aged 20, a seaman on the Tenryu, in the course of the bombard- ment of the eastern fort of Liukung Island, was, standing forward of the booms on the starboard fore quarter of the upper deck, when a shell from the enemy exploded after striking the gear of the No. 2 port gun, and a piece of iron inflicted an abrased wound, 3 c. m. across, on the inner side at the lower third of the left leg. The part was directly dressed with sublimate gauze. It was perfectly healed on the .19tli following. 277.—Contused wound of the right leg :—H. Nishikawa, aged 25, one of the gun-crew of the Katsnragi, in the course of the attack on Liukung Island, was struck by some wooden splinters produced by a hostile shell and received a longitudi- nally lacerated wound about 3. 5 c. m. long, at the middle of the right calf, which was found to be as deep as the subcutaneous tissues. The back of the right knee-