INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXI'REMI'I'V. ]30 shaped iron piece of 2 cm. long, 1 cm. wide, and 3 m. m. thick was found lodged. fragments of sliell severed Jiis trnnk froni Uic lij'pogastric i-egioii, so tliat the lower lialf of the body was crnslied to pieces. Thus he was killed outright. (The lower half of the hody of the deceased surgeon was so completely blown to pieces th?.t nothing conld l)e discovered for some time ; but afterwards a severed leg was found in a corner of the ward-room, which was judged to he his from the slioe that was on it.) 7-INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREIVIITY. (A). INJURIES OF THE SHOULDEE. 188. —Simple fracture of the right clavicle :—J- Haraya, aged 20, a signal man of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was signalling on the bridge, when an enormous shell of the enemy's exploded in the ward-room at the rear of the lower deck. He was thrown down against tlie railing of the bridge by the violent shock of the explosion. Thus the right clavicle was broken but as all the surgeons on board the ship had already been killed, lie liad to have tlie riglit arm simply supported by a piece of cloth ; until tlie ship arrived next morning at the rendezvous near Cape Choppeki, when he was attented to by a surgeon from another vessel, and on the 21st, was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time, the right shoulder was depressed and the movements of the riglit arm could not be performed. When the arm was forcibly raised, a severe pain was complained of at the outer third of the clavicle, and crepitation was felt on the manipulation of the part ; a small ecchymosis also existed in the same locality. The injured limb was fixed by a bandage. On the 30th of the month, he was ti-ansferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. By October 10th, the fracture had united. On the 25th, lie left the hospital to resume service. 189. —Compound fracture of right clavicle:—S. Hirokawa, aged 20 crew of 17 cm. gun of the Fuso, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was resting by the port side of the fannel-casing, when a hostile shell crushed the lower part of the funnel. From one of the broken pieces of the funnel, he received a blind wound on the outer side of the right clavicle. On examination, the entrance wound was found to be 2 c. m. in vertical diameter, 1.5 cm. in transverse diameter, 6 cm. in depth, and running upwards as far as the outer third of the bone, where an irregular square