336 PERFORATED WOUNDS. lOtb instance :—Perforating wound of the upper arms, penetrating wound on tlie left side of the cliest, blind wound on the back, and several contused wounds on the back and thighs were.sustained.' The perforating, wound of the right arm pierced through it at the middle from back to front, breaking the bone. The entrance orifice had a lacerated form about 2.5 cm. in length, and the exit h'ad the same shape and size. The left arm was perforated in its lower third, passing from the posterior surface to anterior ; both the entrance and exit wounds had lacerated forms though somewhat smaller than the one on the right arm. In both cases, the humerus was broken, and the orifices in front of the bone had their soft tissues extensively severed, and many small pieces of the bone were found sticking in the muscles. The brachial artery was iutact in each case. Afterwards both wounds fell into suppuration, and frequently discharged minute particles of the bone together with pus. On the right arm, paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve ensued. After the lapse of 6 mouths, the wound of the left arm was healed, followed by that of the right. However, the paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve remained as before, and the muscles supplied by it wasted, so that the grasping power was entirely lost. Tnere was no hope of recovery, accordingly the patient was discharged after 15 months in the hospital. (No. 209.) 11th instance :—A large perforating wound from the left side of the chest to the right side of the abdominal walls was sustained. The injured man was killed on the spot. The size of the wound orifices was not recorded. (No. 145.) 12th instance :—A large perforating wound from the lumbar region to tlie abdomen was sustained ; the lumbar vertebrae were smashed. Besides, a large con- tused wound with fracture at the middle of the right thigh was received, the person was killed then and there. (No. 174.) 13th instance :—At the lower part of the right forearm was sustained a mutilat- ed wound, and while the patient was receiving treatment in the surgery, an enormous shell burst in the room, inflicting a large perforating wound on the right thigh. The length of the entrance orifice measured 13 cm. and the width 8 cm. The exit was of about the same dimensions, but a little smaller than the entrance orifice. The margins of the wound were irregularly lacerated ; the soft tissues inside it were ex- tensively severed, the fascia rent in various lengths, and the femur being smashed below the great trochanter, numerous pieces of the bone were found in the severed muscles. Afterwards, the skin and other tissues around the wounds sloughed, and