INJUEIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 156 229.—Compound fracture of the right hand, perforating wound of the scalp, blind wounds of the upper and fore-arm and contused wounds of the shoulder and upper lip:—T. Ibo, aged 24, a stolver of tbe Akagi, iu the battle of the Yellow sea, was working in tbe fore part of tlie lower deck as a fire-brigade, wben an enemy's sbell exploded on tbe npper deck and some of tbe sbell-fragments injured botb arms and tbe face. On examination, on tbe rigbt sboulder was found an oval wound 5 cm. in diameter and 1.3 cm. in deptb. A part of tbe deltoid muscle was torn away causing bsmorrbage. Over tbe insertion of tbe pectralis major on tbe inner side of tbe rigbt bumerus was a square wound 1 cm. across and 1.5 cm. iu deptb ba^dng an upward direction, at tbe bottom of wbicb sometbing bard was felt. On tbe ulnar side of tbe back of tbe rigbt band was an entrance wound 2.5 c. m. long and 1.3 c m. Avide with an exit on the same side of tbe palm which bad broken tbe 5tli metacarpus to pieces. On tbe back of the middle of tbe left fore-arm, and on the ulnar side of tbe back of the wrist were found irregular square wounds each 1.5 c. m. in diameter, and tbe margins were sharply cut; the deptb Avas not great, and at the bottom of each AA'ound small sbell-fragments were lodged. Neither Avound bad injured tbe bones nor tbe joint. On the part below and to tbe left of the occipital protuber- ance AA'ere two small Avounds 3 cm. apart, AA'bicb communicated imder the scalp, but the bone Avas intact. From the middle of tbe upper lip running to tbe left and downAA'ards, Avas found a lacerated wound 1.6 c. m. long, 3 m. m. wide and causing tbe flap to drop. Bleeding AA'as stopped by the torsions and ligature of tbe A^essels. Uuder an anastbetic, tbe shell-fragments AA'ere extracted from tbe Avounds of tbe right upper arm and tbe left fore-arm. Tbe one taken out of the A\'ound of the rigbt upper arm was of an irregular flattened shape 1.5 c m. ia diameter, while those from the fore-arm were half tbe size of it a. Shell-fragment extracted from tbe rigbt upper arm. b. ,, „ ,, ,, left fore-arm. c. „ „ ,, tbe ball of tbe left little finger. (see figure No. 10.) Tbe wounds AA'ere managed under strict antiseptic treatment, the a clean margins of tbe Avounds on tbe left forearm and tbe upper lip were sutured. On the 19tb, tbe patient Avas sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital, AA'bere all tbe Avounds were found to be inclined to suppurate; as even the wounds of the left fore-arm and upper lip afforded no hope of union, tbe threads