369 BUKXS AND SCALDS. ties of the burns ami their terminations, and give tlieir general appearances and symptoms. (1) Burns on the head, face, shoulders, upper extremities, left Icnee, and tlie middle of the left leg. Completely healed on December 21st, 1894. (2) Burns on the face, forearms and legs. Ctmipletely cured on December 22nd, 1894. (3) Burns on the face, head, left upper arm, right forearm, back of the right Land, buttocks and the lower extremities. Died on September 23rd, 1894. (4) Burns on the face, back, abdomen, right upper extremity, left forearm and lower limbs. Died on September 23rd, the same year. (5) Burns on the face, neck, below the left forearm, outer side of the left thigh, leg and knee, dorsum of the left foot, antero-exterual part of the right thigh, and outer side of the right leg. Left the hospital convalescing on April 9th, 1895, and cicatricial contraction of the left fingers accruing, the patient again entered the hos- pital, and Avas discharged from service on September 5th, the same year. (6) Burns on the face, neck, below the forearms. Completely healed on October 22nd, 1894. (7) Burns on the face and the upper limbs. Completely healed on October lltb, the same year. (8) Burns on the face, below the middle of the left forearm, and on the right forearm. Completely recovered on October 12th, the same year. (9) Burns on the face, neck, below the right upper arm and left forearm, right gluteal region, and right thigh, attended with a subcutaneous perforating wound of the left leg. Owing to cicatrix of burns, free movements of the neck and upper ex- tremities were interfered with, consequently he was discharged from service on ]\Iarch 16th, 1895. (10) Burns on the right upper limb, and gluteal region of the same side. Completely healed on October 11th, 1894. (11) Burns on the face, both foreai ms, and right leg accompanied with sprain of the right ankle joint. Completely healed on December 15th, the same year. (12) Burns on the face, head, neck, below the middle of right upper arm, below the left elbow joint, left thigh, and right lower limb. Owing to cicatrices, the fingers of the right hand lost their movements, and accordingly the patient was dismissed on March 17th, 1895.