176 IXJUllIES OF THE LOWER EXTEEMITY. brandy inteiiially, besides Lot bottles were applied to the limbs, but lie succumbed two hours after the operation. (See the illustration) 262. —Mutilation of both thighs :—T. Fujita, aged 32, senior clerk of the Hiyei, during the engagement of the Yellow sea, was passing the front of the ac- countant's room on the port side of the 4th division, when an enormous shell from the enemy exploded in the wardroom of the 5th division, he was struck by a large shell- fragmeut, and had his thighs mutilated, and died on the spot owing to heavy ha?mor- rhage and the shock. 263. —B. Miyamoto, aged 26, one of gun-crew on board the Akagi, in the course of the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing No. 1 Q. F. gun on the starboard side of the bridge, when a hostile shell came in from the after part and burst against the support of the said gun. By the shock, he was thrown into the hammock-netting on the bridge, and at the same time had both thighs mutilated. He died on the spot the result of heavy hfemorrhage and a severe concussion. 264. —Mutilation of both thighs with contused wound in the right temple :—H, Matsumoto, aged 32, one of guncrew of the Tsukushi, during the bom- bardment of Zhih Island, on February 3rd, 1895, was standing by the right side of the funnel, when a hostile shell struck him on both thighs and mutilated them in the lower third. Also at the junction of the middle and upper third, in front of the right thigh was a lacerated wound 5 c. m. long on the surface, and reaching the femur in depth. The interior of the wound was large and hollow in form, in ^vhich was im- beded a piece of broken stanchion 13 c. m. long, and 7 c. m. in diameter weighing 1657.5 grammes, (the figure given here is necessarily smaller than the original being a ph3togra[)h from it). Haemorrhage was heavy. Besides this, on the right temple, a contused wound was found which measured 8 cm. long and reached to the bone ; the wound was ragged and gaping; the mind was dull, pulse weak, breathing short; the ha3morrhage was stopped and stimulant was given, but at 1.44 p. m. 25 minutes after the injury, the patient succumbed to the shock. 265. —Mutilation of the right thigh ;—M. Miyamoto, aged 27, a member of the gun-cotton magazine of the Itsukushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was working in the torpedo-room in the fore part, when a hostile shell exploded strik- ing against the torpedo-net boom on the ship's side, one of the large fragments enter- ed the torpedo-room, and breaking through the ship's side inflicted mutilation of the