IXJUKIES OP THE FACE. 87 was intact and his mind clear without any cerebral symptoms. Secondly, a perforat- ing wound on the outer side of the upper part of the left arm. The entrance orifice was found in the front of the arm measuring 5 cm. in diameter, Avith loss of the soft tissues and laceration of the margins. Tlie deltoid muscle was pierced making an exit on the outer and posterior side of the arm. The exit was ragged and the crushed nnis- cular fibres were seen protruding. Its size was rather smaller than that of the inlet. There was bleeding from the wound but the shoulder joint escaped lesion. Thirdly, two lacerated wounds, each 2 cm. long, were found : one just beneath the elbow joint on the outer side of the left fore arm, and one on the inner side the of same joint. The wound of the face was cut open a little, and on oxauiining the inside some frag- ments of the broken bone and blood clots were extracted, but there were no foreign bodies to be found, .\fter the application of an antiseptic dressing to the wound, the patient was kept in absolute rest. On the 18th, bleeding occurred from the wound, the lids of the left eye were swollen and discoloured the temperature rose to 39° C. ; the dressing was renewed. On examining the eye two or three small, black iron fragments were found sticking in the conjunctiva, these were extracted, and the eye was cleansed with boracic lotion and the compress applied. On the morning of the 19th, the temperature fell to 37.°5 C; he was taken on board a transport bound for home and was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. On admission, the left half of the face Avas swollen,—especially the left eye lids—accompanied by pain : the conjunctiva was also inflamed. On examination, the conjunctiva was found still to retain a black speck which Avas soon cleansed away and the application of boracic compress continued. The other wounds were doing Avell, the temperature not exceed- ing normal. On the 2Gth, the surfaces of the wounds began to show the develop- ment of granulation ; on the 30th, .he was removed to the Kure Naval Hospital. At tlie time, the swelling of the left eye-lid, and conjunctivitis, was gradually subsiding. The vesion when examined Avas found to be yVb- Avound of the face, the granulation developed so as to fill up the antrum of Higlnuore but a discharge of pus, mixed with blood, came out of the nose and mouth, so the nasal passage Avas Ava.shed with carbolic lotion. At this time, anajsthesia of the lips and loft cheek was com- plained of. On October 10th, the wounds of the fore-arm \¥ere almost healed, and that of the arm likewise presented favourable granulation. Pain was complained of at the outer side of the left elbow, and on close investigation a fracture'of the outer condyle of the humerus was discovered. This was fixed by a bandage. On the 23rd,