OK ATTACK ON WEI-HAI-WEL 263 30 per cent, of the chest 15 per cent, and of the abdomen 20 per cent. Compared with the killed in the battle of tlie "i'ellow sea, the order of the rates is almost the same in both, except that rjo injury on the lower limbs resulted in death in this action. Moreover if we compute the rates of the killed in the battles both of the Yellow se;i and Wei- hai-wei, the injuries of the whole body constitute o8.G4 ])ev <'ent, head injuries 26.36. neck injuries 1.82, chest injuries 10.00. abdominal in- juries 20.00, lower limb injuries 8.18; and it will be noticed that the rates show very differently from those of the injuries to the res])ective regions in the land battles before stated. This is l^ecause the characters of the wounds are ditferent in the two kinds of battle. (Refer to table Xo. 8 iibout the battle of the YelloAv sea). The deaths during treatment were 7, of wliich the percentages of injuries in the respective localities were as follows:—The injuries of the vdiole body 42.85, head injuries 14.29, abdominal and lumbar injuries 14.29, injuries of lower limb 28.57. However, 6 out of these 7 having expired on the day of iiijury before they had time to be pro])erly treat- ed, might well be counted as instant deaths. That is, two died from vio- lent shock consequent on scalds of the whole bodv, oije was frozen to death bv fallino- into the sea, one died from the crushin<>- of his skull by a large lacerated wound of the frontal region, caused by a shell- fragment, one died froin a Avound of the pelvic organ, tlie ilium having been crashed by a large perforated wcjunrl, orie died from shock (jAvingto the multilation (^f bt^th thighs, one died from shock owing to the mul- tilation of both legs and compound fracture ot' the lace, lastly, one ex- pired Avithin 24 hours after receiving a severe scald on the w hole body. Therefore though 7 cases are mentioned of the column of'died in the course of treatment,' yet it must be remembered that they all died before they (,'ould duly be treated.