INJURIES OF THE OHEST AND BACK. 114 to present a slight dnlness at its lower part. The chest was kept at rest with a tight bandage, and an antispasmodic mixture internally given. On the 27th, the siib- ciitaneous emphysema had greatly subsided ; coughing became less frequent, and the bloody expectoration also diminished. On October 2nd, granulation tilled up the wound and the discharge lessened ; the subcutaneous emphysema entirely disappear- ed ; coughing now became very slight, and no more traces of blood were found in the expectoration. On the 17th, the wound became contracted, and on November 2Gth, was completely healed. The wound of the left thigh healed by scabbing soon after admission to the hospital. 145. —Perforated wound of the chest and abdomen : —S- Snyehiro, aged 31, gunner to No. 4 gun of the Hiyei, in the battle of tlie Yellow sea, was firing No. 4 gun on the port side, when a hostile shell burst against the stanchion of the port booms. A fragment of the shell inflicted a mortal wound which pierced through the left side of the thoracic cavity, breaking the ribs in its course, and passing out on he riglit side of abdomen. He died immediately from the great loss of blood. 146. —Perforated wound of the thorax :—S. Nishida, aged 44, warrant officer of the Banjo. While he was tiring on the enemy's vessels in the harbour of Wei-hai-wei from the occupied fort of Luchotsai, on February 3rd, 1895, a bomb-shell discharged from the enemy's ship Laiyaen, exploded in front of that fort. One of the fragments pierc3d the front of left side of chest and passed out on tlie right side of the back, breaking the ribs in its course and injuring the thoracic visccrfe with copious bleeding. Death was instantaneous. 147. —H. Minatsu, aged 22, stoker of the Itsukushima, was wounded in the chest at the battle of the Yellow sea, by a fragment of a shell that pierced through the port netting in the fore part and exploded when he was on the grating at the upper- most part of the fore boiler room. The fragment crushed through the 3rd rib in front of the right side of the cliest and passed out by the back on tlie left side, thus causing a large perforated wound. In consequence of an excessive loss of blood, the injured man expired on the spot. 148. —Perforated wound of the thorax with burns of head and face H. Kikuchi, aged 27, a torpedo-man on board the Itsukushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was in the torpedo-chamber of the fore part, when a hostile shell exploded against the torpedo-net boom breaking the ship's side. Tlie fragments dashed into the chamber and inflicted a perforated wound on his thorax, piercing through the front of the left