BLIND AND PEXETEATIXG WOUNDS. 311 nation of the wonud showed that the liver was perforatBd hut the locality of the shell fragment was not known ; the temperature was normal. Discharge of a thin hilious fluid from the wound had not ceased, and the granulation Avas unhealthy. On ex- amination ten days after, a small fiat piece of hroken rib was found and extracted. Sloughed hepatic tissues were discharged from the wound. Subsequently an oral eleva- tion in the riglit side of the 1st and 2nd lumbar vertebra was accidentally found, which gave a sense of hard body under the skin. By cutting the part open an irregular oblong shell-fragment 1.8 cm. long, 1.1 cm. wide, and 5 m. m. thick Avas obtained. This is perhaps a fragment Avhich perforated the liver from the right side of the chest and lodged here. For some days discharge of a bilious fluid continued, occasionally mixed Avith debris of the liver, but it gradually diminished, and the granu- lation Avas improving, Avhen suddenly the temperature rose to 39° C, on examining the wound, a small sequestrum and debris of the liver was found impacted in the wound, so that a thin pus Avas accumulatiug. These Avere accordingly removed, aud the Avouud Avashed, Avhen the temperature returned to normal, and from that time the coarse was favorable, and all the wounds were cured in more than one hundred days. (No. IGl.) 29th example :—A case of penetratiug A\'ound in tlie left side of the chest below the axilla. The Avound took a downward and forward course, breaking the 10th rib, and entered the thoracic caA'ity. On the next day, sudden pain was complained of in the abdomen and the temperature rose to 38° C; on the following day the alxlo- minal pain became much more severe attended Avith vomiting. When the patient Avas admitted to the hospital four days after the injury, tije vomiting still existed, the ab- domen Avas tympanitic, the pain extreme, and the general strength greatly exhausted, exhibiting spmptoms of peritonitis. Also, the patient had a slight cough, spitting a small quantity of bloody sputum. The signs of peritonitis aggravated day after day: the abdomen Avas very tympanitic, the pain in the chest and the bloody sputum per- sisted, and pus was discliarged from the AVound. On the 5th day after admission to the hospital, he succumbed to exhaustion, (No. 1G2.) 30th example :—A case of penetrating Avound on the riglit side of the chest, breaking the 7th and 8th ribs ; besides, the heel of the right foot Avas crushed, and burns on the head, face, and upper aud lower extremities inflicted. On the next day, pneumothorax and subcutaneous eniphysenia of the chest set in causing dyspncea and tlie patient at lengtli died. (No. 321.)