CONTUSED WOUXD. 303 wooden splinters; one from compression and one from collision. It is niitural that contused Avounds should reach the largest total in a naval combat. As the contused wound is ;i coiitusion attended with the des- truction of the skin, the object which produces it must have two re- quisites : Fii'stly, it must have a force, that is, velocity or weight, large enough to ruin the skin and other tissues. Xow, in the naval combat, botli shell-fragments and iron or wooden pieces Avhich are the chief missiles, have coarse surfaces and at the same time are heavy; and besides, as they very sekh^m strike persons at a distance, their velocity even though originally not so great, has more than suffi- cient power, Avhen combined with their Aveight to produce this kind of Avounds. Secondly, the object must be a body Avhich though it ruins the skin and other tissues is not capable of penetrating. Kow the shell-fragments to be seen in the naval combat, are not only mostly large in form, but are extremely irregular in shape having a coarse surface ; and therefore, they possess a sufficient f )rce to destroy the skin and tissues, but are quite unable to penetrate the tissues or perforate them. Moreover, as the shell-fragments and pieces of iron or Avooden materials possess an irregular shape, some of them may have sharp edges together Avith a rough surface, and such may be small in form, and devoid of Aveight and velocity, so that they have not sufficient force to penetrate into the tissues after striking the skin ; yet by breaking open the skin they do often produce contused Avounds. This is especially the case Avhen they strike parts Avanting subcutaneous soft tissues, like the head, or the front of the leg. And sometimes there occur cases of contused Avounds from other causes ; f^r instance, colliding Avith various objects when thrown against tliem by the shock of an explosion, etc. Therefore, it is no Avonder that the Avounds of the kind under consideration should be most numerous.