276 CONTUSION. vasation of blood into the anterior chamber, so that the sight was much impaired. Tlie extravasation in tlje anterior chamber was absorbed and the congestion of the conjunctiva disappeared in a few days, yet when the injured man gazed at any object; a mist seemed to float before the eye, so as to obscure the siglit, and finahy sight external strabismus resulted. (No. 108.) Wooden splinters often served as indirect shots as well as iron fragments. Compared with iron fragments, the wooden splinters are much lighter accordingly the latter should ceteris ■paribus be much weaker in furce than tlie former. It is true that a shell breaks wooden material more easily than iron and thus its force being far less reduced when it strikes wood, it seems probable that somewhat greater motion will be given to the wooden splinters, but as a rule they are much weaker in force than iron pieces, for there is a great ditference in weight. Wooden splinters therefore will naturally produce more cases of contusion than the fragments of iron or shell and of the t(jtal 58 various cases injui-ed by wooden pieces, 17 were wounds of this class, giving a ratio of 29.31 per cent of the total, which is, as it should be, far larger than that either of shell fragments or of iron-pieces. (4) Fourteen cases of contusion caused by the shock of shell explosion occurred for ten persons. 1st example.—In the Matsushima, much ammunition exploded in consequence of the explosion of a hostile shell, and the shock threw the man backward, thus causing injuries on the back part of the parietal region, the right shoulder, and the right elbow joint. He fell into unconsciousness at the time, but coming to himself after a while, was engaged in putting out the fire. But the contusion at the elbow joint proved rather serious, being followed by a marked swelling, and needed hospital treatment. (No. 211.) 2nd example.—The .same shock blew a man into the air, causing a sprain of the ankle joints and concussion of the spine. The ankle joints and the dorsa of the feet were greatly swollen and discoloured, followed by the paraplegia of the lower limbs,