BURNS. 206 groaning in anguish. Administration of stimulants was resorted to, the burns were dressed with wet boracic lint which was daily changed. On the 25th, the temperature suddenly rose to 39°. 7 C. and continued up to the 28th. Exliaustiou increased more and more, delirium supervened and on the 29tli at 5 o'clock p. m. there was a sudden loss of consciousness. Death occurred at 7. 30 p. m. (see Fig. 18). 330.—-Burns (covering one-third of the body)—^C. Onishi, aged 24, one of the gun-crew of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was engaged in the conveyance of cartridges by the No. 10 side-gun, on the port side in the fore part of the lower deck, when owing to the same explosion he sustained burns of the 2ud and 3rd degree covering one third of the body, viz :—on the head, face, neck, inter- scapular region, and both upper and lower limbs. The left upper and lower limbs were affected deeply into the muscles. The injured man was directly carried to the cabin and appropriately dressed. On the 20th, the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Condition of the patient:—most of the burned parts had their epdmrieis stripped off or presented vesicles ; in some parts the whole skin had became gangrenous. They were dressed with boracic lint, and brandy was frequent- ly given internally. On the 29th, the burns of the left upper arm, the outer side of the left thigh, and the left ear, were severely eroded and discharging a great deal of pus ; accordingly these parts were washed with a carbolic acid solution. On October 9th, a new epidermis appeared over the denuded surfaces of the face and right upper arm, while the ears and the left limbs continued to discharge pus. On the 14th, the burns of the face, right forearm, and left leg were nearly covered with new epidermis, the rest still discharged pus ; exhaustion gradually supervened. On the 23rd, the heart became very feeble with faint pulsations, tincture of digitalis was given, and as the strength of the pulse continued weak, tincture of strophanthus the was substituted on the 30th. On November 18th, the granulation of the burned parts improved, and the discharge of pus decreased; the heart's action revived, and the strophanthus was withdrawn. Emaciation increased owing to heavy dis- charge of pus from the ulcerating surfaces. On December the 20th, the ulcerated parts on the outer side of the left arm and thigh presented dull red granulation, so wet carbolic dressings were substituted and daily renewed ; following this measure the granulation greatly improved, while the discharge of pus remarkably decreased. On January 19th, 1895, small patches of epidermis developed over the burnt surfaces of the left upper and lower limbs. Tlie ulcerating surface of the right leg measured 28