PERFORATED WOU.SDS. 348 1st instance :—A perforating wound of the soft tissues in the xipper part of the left forearm, together with an abrased wound on the left leg, and burns on the face. The patient recovered in about 80 days. (No. 222.) 2nd instance :—A perforating wound extending from the lower part of the spine of right scapula to the upper part of the right arm. The entrance wound at the scapular region presented a curved lacerated form, and the exit hole on the upper arm was a vertically lacerated wound 4.5 cm. in length with everted margins out of which the muscular substance protruded in a crater-like form. The scapula and the surgi- cal neck of the humerus were broken. When the patient was admitted to the hospital, both the entrance and exit holes being enlarged, several pieces of the bone were ex- tracted. Bat at the time, the Avonud had already fallen into suppuration, and sloughs had been formed at the margin so that the development of granulation was unfavor- able. The case lingered on for about five months when erysipelas set in, and the patient succumbed. (No. 192.) 3rd instance ;—A perforating wound in the soft tissues of the right leg was received. The entrance orifice measured 5.5 cm. in length and 4.5 cm. in width, and the exit hole 3 cm. in length and 2.5 cm. in width. Though the bones, vessels, and nerves were not injured, the tissues around the wound were strikingly lacerated, consequently they sloughed and the wound was at last cured in three months. (No. 283.) There were only three perforating wounds caused by iron-pieces as above mentioned. This proportion to 60, the total number of wounds from the same cause, bears a ratio not larger than 5.00 per cent, which is the smallest percentage of all, for the contused wounds cover 41.67 per cent, the blind wounds 20.00, the abrased wounds 16.67, contusions and mutilated wounds respectively 8.33. This shows that iron-pieces, as already stated, are too weak to easily produce perforating wounds. Though iron-pieces are almost the same with shell-fragments in shape and weight, yet as the former are imparted with by far, the less velocity, they are consequently much weaker in force. At the time of battle, shell-fragments are scattered about in a ship in a larger number and reach a further distance than iron-pieces ;