KAK'KE. 465 taking up their abode at two places, Meli and Toumourou. About the middle of March, several cases of kak'ke occurred, and by the 28th of May, no fewer than 438 persons had been attacked by the disease. At first, we are informed, their diet consisted of 900 grammes of rice 50 grammes offish, but as the fish was very dear, it was replaced by 110 grammes of dried shrimps, for which the same quantity of sea-weeds, cabbage, or sometimes pickled-plums was often substituted. The prevalence of kak'ke gave the authorities the hint to improve the food, which they did, allotting 225 grammes of fresh meat and 1,500 grammes of bread. After this change of food was introduced, the disease, as we understand, disappeared. The reporters of this event seem to lay more stress on fish-poisoning as having been the cause, and it is true that the fish was actually too bad for use. In our country, there have been and are not a few who would attribute kak'ke to fish-poison; for example Professor M. Miura in- stituted elaborate investigation to prove this theory of fish-poison, though without success. Poisoning by decayed fi.sh is of frequent occurrence here, but it can not be shown to be the cause of kak'ke. Others think that a certain kind of rice may be the cause, and Dr. Sakaki and others set on foot investigations to prove this sup- position but again without satisfactory results. We do not therefore hesitate to account for these outbreaks by the hypothesis that they were, (as is* always the case) produced by the use of rice in comparatively large quantities along with a deficiency of other nutritious substances. To mention other similar instances: the Cossacks belonging to a pearl fishing expedition, in Torres Strait were once owing to the lack of suitable fo(jd compelled to live only on rice, with the result that kak'ke suddenly broke out among them, and were only saved by getting a supply of wheat flour from an American ship, that happened to pass by. Again, in 1882, a terrible cyclone occurred in Manila destroying