529 PEEVENTIOX OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES. no need for the use of quinine, but in April and May, 1895, when she happened to hug the coast of Formosa, we administered quinine to each member of the ship before he went to bed, and at the same time had every scuttle and hatch closed dui-ing the night. There occurred some cases of sudden rise of body temperature, which, however, disappeared in a few days, and none of them could properly be called cases of malaria. (By Wakaguri, Surgeon of the Chiyoda.) (5) When our ship was at Formosa, we gave a daily dose of 0.4 of quinine from the day previous to her arrival at the island, which was continued for two weeks. But even after that period, those who had to land were made to take a dose before- hand, and those who had to pass a night or nights on land were to carry with them a certain quantity of quinine and also drinking-water. In spite of such continuous use of the quinine, no injury to the stomach was found, nor was any person affected with the disease. Whether this favorable phenomenon was due to the use of quinine, or to the non-use of the water on land for drinking purposes is not ascertained. At any rate, it is evident that if we avoid drinking the water at an unhealthy district, attended with the use of quinine, the disease can be prevented. (By Ota, Surgeon of the Matsushima.) (6) On arrival at Keelung port of Formosa, on .June 7th, 1895, quinine was given as a preventive for a week, and then it was stopped. After a week, a case of intermittent fever occurred, and during our stay at Bakuu harbour of the Pescadores in August the same year, we had also some cases of intermittent and remittent Severs. (By Maki, Surgeon of the Akitsushima.) (7) During the northern expedition, we found no need for the use of a pre- ventive against intermittent fever. However, whenever, owing to the damp- ness of the air, there was a great difference in temperature between day and night, or when the country where the ship's members had to land was known to be unhealthy, those who manned the boat, and those going ashore were given quinine as a preventive. Yet we were not totally free from the disease, two or three malarial cases appearing among the ship's company. (By Assistant Surgeon Sliikano of the Hashidate.) (8) By order of the Flag-ship, we gave quinine to each member of our crew for a week from the day preceding our arrival at Keelung port, Formosa ; and those who landed, or approached the shore like the boat-men were obliged to take the medicine. We had a remarkable experience about malarial fever in the course of our ship's stay there. As above stated, in our ship every person who had to land or to