INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 185 280. —Blind wound of the right leg with abrased wound of the left leg :—M. Sliimizu, aged 18, a stoker on the Itsuknsliima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was in the after boiler-room, when a shell pierced through the coal bunker in the starboard waist, and exploded against the ladder set at the middle step of the said room. Some of the shell-fragments inflicted a blind wound on the outer and back part of the right calf. It was a vertical lacerated wound 3 c. m. in length, and half as large across. There was also a small abrased wound in the middle of the front of the left leg. The injuries were simply dressed on board the ship, and the patient was „ „ r' ' , •, n admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. The ohell iragment extracted rrom the wound of the right leg. wound on the calf was then found to measure 9 c. m. in depth, and a shell fragment the size of a plnm seed was found at the bottom and extracted, (see Fig. 14) A drainage tube was introduced and an antiseptic bandage applied. At this time, the abrased wound on the left leg had healed. On the 30th, he was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital wliere the canal of the wound filled with granulation, and a cicatrix formed, by October 20th. He was discharged, perfectly cured, on the 24th, and returned to service. 281. —Blind wound of the left leg:—T. Nakagawa, aged 36, a signal-man on the Akagi, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was at work on the bridge, when a musket ball hit his left leg. On examination a round wound 6 m. m. in diameter on the inner side at the lower third of the left leg was found. The canal of the wound took a forward course with a depth of about 1 c. m. yet not reaching the bone; hsemorrhage was not severe but there was a good deal of pain. The ball was a conical one of 11 m. m. diameter, perhaps a Gatling bullet. The wound was dressed antiseptically, and he returned to duty. Next day, when the bandage was changed, the margins of the wound were inflamed, the former dressing was continued, and on the 20th the inflammation around the wound subsided, progress was favorable, and the wound was perfectly healed on October 8th. 282. —Perforating wound of the right leg:-—R- Wakita, aged 23, a member of the torpedo-crew of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was on duty in the torpedo-room in the starboard Avaist, when fragments of a 30.5 c. m. hostile shell that had burst in the fore part of the lower deck entered the said room breaking though the bulkhead. One of the fragments inflicted a perforating wound