IXJUllIES OF THE ABDOMINAL AND LUWBAK KEGlONb. 128 when another hostile shell of 30.5 cm. exploded in the fore part of the lower deck and gave him a' severe shock which caused instant death. 176. —Partial mutilation of abdominal region :—J. Ogiwara, aged 22, a carpenter of the Takachiho, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was turning the fan for the magazine in the gun-support of the revolving gun in the rear of the lower deck, when a hostile shell exploded in the rear of the starboard side. Some fragments of the shell pierced the ship's side and dashed into the gun-support, mutilating the left side of the abdominal wall. He died on the spot from the shock. 177. —Mutilation of abdomen :—C. Ishizuka, aged 2G, Chief-Paymaster of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, w^as, as an assistant to the surgeons, taking the record of the wounded men, seated on a chair in the surgery of the ward-room at the rear of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell entered the room piercing through the starboard side of the stern, and burst against the mizzen-mast. One of the large fragments of the shell cut through his body, causing instant death. 178. —C. Murakoshi, aged 80, Assistant Surgeon of the Hiyei, in the battle of tlie Yellow sea, was attending on a wounded case in the surgery, when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell exploded in the said room. One of the large fragments of the shell severed his trunk, causing instant death. 179. —M. Kouo, aged 32, one of the torpedo men of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was at work in the middle torpedo-room, when a hostile shell dashed into the room after piercing through the port side, and shot right through his abdomen, causing instant death. 180. —T. Kitamura, aged 26, a torpedo-man of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was at work in the middle torpedo-room, when a hostile shell entered the room and killed him outright by cutting him in two at the abdomen. 181. —F. Yubara, aged 26, a torpedo-man of the Itsukusliiraa, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was at work in the fore torpedo-chamber, when a hostile shell exploded against the boom for the torpedo net on the starboard side in the fore part. Some of the fragments crushed through the ship's side into the torpedo-room and mutilated his ab- domen. Ho was killed instantaneously. 182. —I. Nakamura, aged 33, petty officer of the Tenryu, in the course of the attack of Wei-hai-wei on February 11th, 1895, was on the starboard side on the waist of the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the gear of No. 2 port-side gun on the waist of the upper deck. One of the fragments of shell mutilated his trunk from