162 INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. of its first phalanx. On trying to move the thumb, crepitation was felt and severe pain. Tlie fracture was a transverse one, its broken ends remaining at their natural position witlioat intersecting one anotlier. The thumb was fixed by a splint and he directly betook liimself to work, but the thumb gradually became swollen and paiufal so tliat after the battle was over he could not coutiane his work. Tlierefore he was, on the 21st of the same montli, admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. There, tlie injured part was fixed by a splint as before, and on October the 12th the fracture joined, tlie sphut was removed, and the movements of the tlmmb were tried, but as tlie grasping power was found imperfect, he was told to exercise its active movements. On October I7th, completely liealed, he returned to the service. 240. —Compound fracture of the right index-finger:—T. Kubota, aged 34, assistant engineer of the Naniwa, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was in the engine-room when the heavy stern gun was fired, the shoclc of the discliarge caused him to lose his bahxiice and in putting out liis arm to recover himself he had his right index-finger seized between tlie radius-rod of the eccentric and the connecting rod of the transmission lever, thus causing a complicated fracture of the 1st phalanx of the index-finger and a lacerated wound 5 c. m. long extending from the palmar aspect of the root of the index-finger to the palm of the hand. Tlie wound was a gaping one with profuse bleeding and the 1st phalanx of the finger was obliquely broken. Both ends of the fractured phalanx were replaced and fixed by a splint. Progress auspicious. On October 15th, the wound healed Leaving a slight derangement of motion in the 1st joint of tlie injured finger. 241. —Compound fracture of the left index-finger and burns of the face, neck, back, fore-arms, buttocks and legs:—M. Yoshikawa, aged 24, one of the gun-crew of the Matsushima, in the course of the naval battle of the Yellow sea, was in the fort of No. 9 gun on the starboard side in the fore part of the lower deck when a 80.5 cm. shell of the enemy burst against the shield of No. 4 side- gun on the port side of the same deck. Immediately, ammunition provided for the side-guns caught fire and exploded, and he received a compound fracture of the 2nd ])lialaux of the left index-finger by one of the fragments of the sh3ll ; besides, from the explosion flame, burns of the 2nd degree on the face, ears, neck, back, and on the back of the fore-arms, left buttock and the lower parts of the legs. To the burns were applied oiled lints, and sublimate gauze to the wound of the finger. On the 20th the patient was conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Conditions of wounds :—