INJURIES OF Tm: LOWEE EXTREMITY. 167 flagship Matsiishima, iu the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was posted as a carrier of wouucled, and brought a wounded man into the petty-officers' room in the fore part of the upper deck, and while standing there, a 30,5 c. m. shell burst iu the fore part of the lower deck, and exploded the ammunition of our side guns. By one of the broken pieces of the ship's planks he was struck on the outer-tide of the left thigh. On examining, the injured part, there was found a slight subcutaneous ex- travasation and swelling, and he could only walk with difficulty. Lead lotion was applied, and by the 25th of the same month he had perfectly recovered. 250. —Abrasion of the left thigh :—K- Tateyama, aged 24, a stoker on board the Matsushima in the Yellow sea battle, was in the engine room, when a hostile shell broke the iron plate at the entrance. By one of the iron-pieces he received an abrasion in the lower part of the front of the left thigh. A sublimate gauze was applied, and on the 20th following, he was conveyed to the Sasebo Naval hospital. At that time, in front of the lower third of the left thigh was found a shallow wound 5 c. m. long and 4 c. m. wide. The true skin lay bare, and was slightly suppurating, the borders of the wound were somewhat swolleu with pain. Sublimate gauze was applied and progress was auspicious. On October 22nd, the patient completely recovered and left the hospital to return to service. 251. —H. Shimamura, aged 36, flag lieutenant of the Standing squadron, on board the Matsushima, in the Y'ellow sea engagement, was standing on the fore bridge when a fragment of a hostile shell came and inflicted on him an abrased wound 3. 5 c. m. long, and 2.5 c. m. Avide, on the outerside of the middle third of the left thigh. Sublimate gauze was applied, and the 20th of the same month the wound healed completely under scabs. 252. —Contused wound of the right thigh and left arm :—A. Imai, aged 29, a gunner of the Katsuragi in the course of the bombardment of the eastern fort of Liukung island, was aiming the bow gun for the enemy's fort, when a hostile shell struck the gun-barrel; he fainted from the shock and was unconscious for two or three minutes. At the same time, by some of the broken wooden splinters, he received a contused wound in the inner side of the upper part of the right thigh ; the skin was lacerated and there was great pain. Besides, on the inner and front of the upper part of the left arm there was a small abrasion with subcutaneous extravasa- tion around it. No lesion of bone in either wound was present. In a few days, the abrased wound of the upper arm healed, but with that of the thigh, the lacerated skin