INJURIES OF THE UPPER EX l'REMITi'. 138 when a hostile sLell burst against the No. 2 side gun on the larboard waist of the upper deck. From one of the fragments of shell, he received a contused wound 1 cm. deep, of the size of a thumb-head, just above the internal condyloid eminence of the right upper arm. The margins of the wound were irregularly lacerated and attended by a slight hnsmorrhage. On introducing a probe, it was found that the wound formed a kind of sack, some 3 cm. deep, running forwards under the skin; the bone was intact and the movement of the injured limb not hindered at all. A sublimate gau7,e was applied and the patient was removed on board the hospital ship Kobe-maru. After- wards, the patient had a slight degree of motor and sensory paralysis of the ring and little fingers on the injured side. The wound gradually developed granulation and on the 20th, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time, the granulation of the wound was found to be healthy and developing well; but paralysis of the ulnar nerve prevented the function of the part supplied by that nerve. Antiseptic treatment was continued with suspension of the injured limb with a trian- gular sling. On March 15th, cicatrix formed on the wound, but the paralysis of the hand had not ceased, and local bathing of the part, together with stimulating lini- ment, massage, and the internal use of iodide of potassium were ordered. Afterwards, the conditions gradually improved and on April Gth, he left the hospital to return to duty, completely recovered. 201. —Contused wound of the left upper arm S. Mori, aged 2-1, Mid- shipman of the Matsushima, at the time of the attack on Liukuiig Island, February 2nd, 1895, was on duty in the conning tower, when an enemy's shell passed over the bridge breaking an iron chain on its way. One of the severed rings of the chain flew into the tower and inflicted a contused wound 1 cm. in diameter and of sub-cuta- neous depth in front of the upper part of the left arm ; the margins of the wound were irregular and much swollen, the movements of the injured limb were hindered by pain ; but no lesion of bone nor joint was found. Corrosive gauze was applied and the injured limb was secured with a triangular bandage. The wound progressed favourably and healed under scales by the 28th of tlie same month. 202. —Lacerated wound of the left upper arm with burns of the face, neck and limbs:—-C. Ariki, aged 2G, a seaman of the Matsushima, in the course of the engagement of the Yellow sea, September 17th, 1894, was passing the fore part of the lower deck, when a hostile 30.5 cm. shell exploded on the same deck, igniting at the same time the annnunition provided for the use of the side guns.