INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 159 232. —Abrasion of the right index finger:—!. Takuma, aged 29, one 'of the gun-crew of the Fnso, hi the coarse of the battle of the Yellow sea, was resting on the larboard side of the funnel-casing, when an enemy's shell struck the funnel and broke it into pieces. One of the broken fragments of iron inflicted an abrused wound on the back of the terminal joint of the right index finger, peeling the nail and skin away. The Avound was sealed with sublimate gauze and he resumed work directly. The wound had healed on October 4th. 233. —Contused wound of the right index finger:—J- Shiuowara, aged 28, one of the gun-crew of the Akagi, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing the larboard No. G Q. F. gun on the stern of the upper deck, when a hostile shell broke the starboard side of the stern. The broken pieces of iron were driven about, and some of them wounded him on the right index finger. On examination, there was found a lacerated wound ruiniing from the ulnar side of the base of the right index- finger, along the bade of the finger to the upper part of the 2nd joint; at the bottom of it, the extensor tendon was exposed and hfemorrhage was profuse, on the palmar surface of the 1st joint of the same finger there was a contused wound of a square form 1.5 cm. across, the margins were irregular, and everted; tliese two wounds seemed to be the entrance and exit wounds of the same injury, but they did not communicate with each other, no foreign body was found nor any lesion of bono. The blood vessels were ligatured and an antiseptic bandage applied. On the 19th, the patien, was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. After admission, progress was flivourablet and on the 31st of the same month, both wounds filled with granulation so as to become level with the skin. On this day, he was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. On October 24th, cicatrix formed, and ho returned to duty perfectly re- covered. 234. —Contused wound of the right middle finger with burns of the left upper arm :—S. Kobayashi, aged 31, one of the gun-crew of the Hashidate, in the course of the engagement in the Yellow sea, was in tlie fort of the bow gun in the fore-part of the upper deck, when a hostile shell burst, striking the inner wall of the shield of the gun. At the moment, by some of the shell-fragments he was in- flicted with a contused wound on the 2nd joint of the right middle finger, and an abrasion the size of a pin-head in the lower margin of the right cornea. Besides, by the flame of the explosion, burns of the 1st and 2nd degrees were sustained in the lower part of the left upper arm down to the tips of the fingers. Temporary relief