iyjURIli:S OF 'I'HE FACE. 97 3rd of May, the interior of the orbit was clean, presenting no suppuration. On the 13th, tlie margin of tlie wound healed by the first intention. Hence, the congestion and photophobia of the right eye greatly abated, but headache occurred intermittently. On the 27th, it ceased entirely as well as the congestion of the right eye ; an artificial eye graciously bestowed by H. I. M. the Empress was applied and on June 6th, lie left the hospital and returned to his duty, but was afterward by his wish, invalided for life with the grant of the regular pension. 110.—Penetrating wound of the right eye with burns of face, left hand and loin :—S. Ogawa, aged 26, one of the crew to 82 cm. gun of the Matsushima. In the battle of the Yellow sea on September 17th, 1894, he was firing in the tower of the said gun, when a shell struck against the wall of the tower and burst. One of the iron fragments thus broken, penetrated the inner canthus of the right eye causing extravasation of blood in the anterior chamber. He also sustained burns of the second degree from explosion-gas on both ears, on the left forearm and hand and on the left lumbar-region. Directly after the accident, a boracic wet compress was ap- plied to the eye, and an oil lint to the burns, strict rest being ordered. The injured man was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 20th. Examination at the hospital: a small lacerated wound near the inner canthus of the right lower lid was found which perforated through the all the layers of the lid, and entered into the inner and lower part of the eye-ball. The conjunctival congestion and the effusion of blood in the anterior chamber prevented the examination of the fundus. On the 28th, the laceration of the right eye-lid had healed, and the surfaces of the burns developed a new epithelium though there remained several suppurating points. On October 14th : the burns of the ears and the left fore-arm had healed completely while that on the loin left an ulcerated surface about the size of a two sen copper piece. The congestion of the conjunctiva had diminished and the extravasation of blood into the anterior chamber was being gradually absorbed. On the 19tli, the burn of the loin had healed, and blood efi'usion in the anterior chamber was being, by degrees, absorbed ; the fundus could hardly be examined owing to the turbidity of the aqueous humour, but the presence of a deep blue spot on the temporal side of the interior of the eye was recognized. November 6th : the aqueous humour became almost transparent so that light and dark could be faintly distinguished. The eye-ball had gradually shriveled and the upper lid dropped down. December 20tli: the aqueous humour was cleared up by the absorption of its turbidity; the iris had the posterior synechia, the pupillary