INJURIES OF THE LOWEU EXTREMITY. 165 the caual of the wound filled with gi'aunlation by degrees, the patient completely recovered and left hospital ou October 11th. 246.—Contused wound of the right inguinal region and blind wound of the left leg :—y- Imagawa, aged 23, a stoker on board the Akitsushima, in the course of the battle of the Yellow sea, was going to change the direction of the ventilator of tlie engine-room, by the side of tlie engine-room hatch in the fore-part, when a hostile shell burst against the shield of No. 5 side-gnn on the starboard waist of the upper deck. He received lacerated wounds by some of the flying shell- fragments, on tlie right inguinal region and on the inner part of the upper third of the left leg. On examination, along the inner side of the right spermatic cord was found a lacerated wound of the size of the tip of the little finger, attended by bleeding. An examination, showed that the wound took a course deeply inwards and down-wards towards the scrotum but did not reach the cavity of tunica vaginalis, and the spermatic artery escaped the injury, haamorrhage was not lieavy. Also, on the inner side of the left tibia below the knee joint, was a blind wound 2 cm. in dia- meter ; and a small shell-fragment was lodged, but without giving any lesion to the bone ; it was extracted. The wounds being antiseptically dressed, the patient was enjoined to strict rest. Some days after, the scrotum became swollen and tense, so that it reached 29 cm. in circumference, attended with pain and subcutaneous extravasation. It gave fluctuation to the touch; urination was normal, and the temperature also normal. Tlie scrotum was treated by lead lotion. On the 19th, symptoms remained the same, and on the same day he was taken on board a transport and was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Condi- tions of the wounds :—Tlie inflammatory swelling of the scrotum had spread to the perineum, the scrotum was raised by means of a pad and cold applied constantly. On the 25th, the scrotum remained still swollen, but pain had greatly decreased. On October the 5th, the inflammatory swelling of tlie scrotum subsided, and the testes were found to be swollen also, the extravasation of blood in the scrotum became so hardened that it could not be absorbed, so the hair on the scrotum was shaved away, and under strict antiseptic precaution, the skin was cut open and a large quan- tity of coagulated blood extravasating between the subcutaneous connective tissues was evacuated, followed by the introduction of a drainage tube and the application of an antiseptic bandage. On the 10th of the same month, the incised wound of the scrotum evacuated only a brownish liquid without suppuration, so the drainage-tube