221 SCALD. 363. —T. Ito, aged 24, a stoker of the same boat. The foregoing cases occurred on the same torpedo-hoat on February 4th, 1895, wlien she ventured into the port of Wei-hai-wei taking the advantage of the dead of night to make an attack on hostile vessels. They were working in the engine- room, under a shower of tlie enemy's shells, the boat received 13 of them, of which one that struck the boat at 4. 30 at dawn next morning, entered by the port side and piercing the upper part of the boiler made a large hole of 9 inches in diameter. Steam and boiling water gushed oat from this hole scalding all of them to instant death. 364. —I. Ajisono, aged 28, a stoker of the same boat as above. He was scalded together with others in the boiler room by gushing steam and boiling water through the rent in the boiler. He was rescued by No. 19. torpedo boat, from which he was at 6. 35 a. m. transferred to the mother-ship Omi-maru. Examined by the surgeon of the ship, he was found scalded all over the body ; the face, neck, chest, forearms and legs sustained scalds of the 2nd degree, the epidermis being softened and ex- foliating here and there, or blistered at places. The back, abdomen, upper arms, thighs presented a reddish hue having wrinkles owing to tlie softening of epidermis. He complained of intense tliirst and chilliness witli alarming signs of collapse. Brandy was given and wet boracic acid packing applied. About 11a. m. his suffer- ing increased, he was rolling about in bed, and opium was given, at 7 p. in., dyspnaa set in, heart action failed, pulse became thready and occasional delirium supervened. At 3.30 a. m. on the 6th, the symptoms became worse, respiration stertorous, pulse indistinguishable, the mind stnpified and responses unintelligible. Stimulating measures were resorted to in xniii, and the patioit expired at 4 o'clock in tlie morning. 365. —Scalds of the face, hands and legs :—G. Takahashi, aged 28, senior stoker of the same boat as above. He sustained scalds of 2nd degree with the same fate as above, on the face, ear-lobes, hands and legs. Eescued by No. 19 torpedo-boat that accompanied her, he was placed at 6.35 a.m. ou board the mother ship Omi-maru. Examined by the surgeon of the ship, epidermis of the scalded parts was softened and stripped off at places. The parts were painted with olive oil and di-essed with sublimate gauze. On the 6th, dressings were renewed, and blisters opened. The patient was transferred to tlie hospital ship Kobe-maru, and on the 7th, the epidermis of the affected parts became grayish black and contained serum or pus beneath it. Accordingly the sloughed epidermis was snipped off and the parts washed with