466 KAK'KE. very many native houses and there followed a prevalence of cholera. All this while, the people had to live only on rice, and kak'ke raged with terrible force, no fewer than 20,000 people falling victims to it. Nothing can better justify the correctness of our theory that kak'ke is caused by excessive use of rice with a deficiency of other nutritious food. In the instances of kak'ke prevalence in Australia, Peru, Fiji, and Hawaiian islands and many other countries, which have newly been visited by kak'ke, the circle of prevalence never extended beyond the Japanese or Chinese whose chief diet consists of rice. Settlements of Japanese in foreign countries have met with a similar fate, w^henever they have lived on a diet similar to that used in New Caledonia. Yet we have never heard of a single instance in which the disease has spread among foreigners who lived on a dilferent food. Again there are many Japanese living in European countries on ofticial business, or for trade or study, but as they have the same diet as Europeans, none of them have ever sutfered from the disease. On the other hand the seamen belonging to the jST. Y. K's ships on service on the Europe- an routes, were not unfrequently attacked with kak'ke ; no matter whether they were in Marseilles, London or Antwerp ; and this was plainly because they took the same diet as at home ; for as soon as the company turned its attention to the food of its seamen kak'ke cases diminished. Some may suspect that there was a kak'ke virus lying concealed in the ships; but there are many instances to the contrary. Thus, during the Japan-China war, ships belonging to various steam- sliip companies were chartered by the government for purposes of transportation and communication, and a certain number of seamen from the Navy were distributed to each ship. The seamen from the Navy were employed on the same duties as the other, but the former were served with the regulation diet fixed by the Navy, whilst the original crew of the ship had their own food. The seamen of the Navy