INJURIES OF THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. 123 inorpliiue injected subcntaueonsly; uikI cold applied to the fibdomeu. Oii the lOtli, he was sent by a transport to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On the way, the symptoms aggravated, abdominal pain becoming intense, tempenitiive rose to 39° C; pnlse 105. In the night nansea and vomiting ensued, showing characteristic signs of peri- tonitis. The dressing was changed again. The chest wound was slightly inflamed. An opiate was given internally, and cold constantly applied to the abdomen. On the 21st, he was admitted to the hospital. Symptoms at the time ; expression pale and full of anguish, nutrition of the body impaired, respirations uneasy ; slight cough ; sputa mixed with blood ; abdomen tympanitic, yet the temperature not exceeding .87°.3 C. On the 22nd ; the temperature stood at 37°.4 C, pulse 78, respiration 18 to 24 per minute ; there was no remarkable change of symptoms. On the 23rd symptoms aggravated :—-the temperature rose to 39°.6 C, limbs cold, pulse weak, n\imberiug 120, respiration laborious, tympanites ; and pains in the chest and abdo- men increased so that extreme uneasiness was complained of. The dressing was changed, and an enema of turpentine, yolk of egg and gum mucilage was injected. On the 24th, the pain of the chest steadily increased, attended witix a slight liEemo- sptysis. Sloughs around the lacerated margin of the chest wound discharged pus, and gas in the abdomen increased steadily, so tliat the chest and abdomen were intensely distended, and the patient was in a state of constant anguish and groaning. Temperature 38°.6 C, pulse 92 ; the enema of turpentine was repeated and applica- tion of ice to the chest and abdomen continued. Laparotomy was hopeless, as the condition of the patient at the time of admission was so low. On the 25th, the ther- mometer stood as the day beibre ; pulse 100, exhaustion increasing day by day. Egg and brandy was given at frequent intervals. On the 26th, a large quantity of blood was passed through the bowels ; the symptoms were perilously aggravated, the patient collapsed, and the temperature indicated 39°.4 C. On the 27th, the tempera- ture indicated 38°.6 C; vomiting liad occurred frequently since the previous day, and much bile had been brought up ; pulse became rapid and thready, and the pain in the abdomen excruciating ; the patient was constantly crying and groaning. Thus, in spite of all efforts to alleviate his distress, he sucjiimbed at 8.30 p.m. 163.—Penetrating wound of abdomen with burns of face, hands and feet:—Y. Ogawa, aged 24, a bandsman on board the Matsushima, iu the battle of the Yellow sea, September 17th, 1894, was passing the fore-part of the lower deck on duty as a carrier of the wounded, when a 80.5 cm. hostile shell burst against the shield of