H^MOEEHAGE. 379 t;ike place, iind consequently liaMuorrhiig-e will be heavy, as i.s well known. Shell-fragments and iron-pieces are iri-egnlar in form, and have sharp aiigles and keen edges. They not unfrequently give par- tial laceration to the blood vessels, besides complete laceration of them as in the mutilated wounds, consequently htcmorrhage will be severe in such cases. Strange to say some cases are reci^rded in the clinical historv of heavy hasmorrhage of those killed by mutilated wounds ; but this was not always from psrsonal observation of the surgeons, who not being eye-witnesses depended on the reports of others, and consequently it is difficult to ascertain positively the real am(3unt of hsemorrhage. But in the cases Kos. 264 and 290 clinical history of mutilated wounds of both thi^iis and of both leo-s, which occurred in the Tsukushi, haiuxorrhage was observed to have been copious by the surgeons themseh'es. The arteries of the thio-li are too large even though torn asunder to form enough coagulation as to immediately stop htemorrhage, therefore if not attended with shock, hicmorrhage may continue to the moment of death, and even if arrested at once, the loss of blood will still be very great. The blood-vessels of the leg also are not small, so the loss blood was probably great. These two cases were caused by the impact of an entire shell of great velocity, and the ditfereiice in its effect from that of a wound by a shell-fragment, is much the same as the difference in being wounded by a sharp sword to being cut with a blunt blade, this probably accounts t'ov the heaviness of the haemorrhage. At any rate, it is certain that luumorrage did not last long, i'ov shoi;k was lie:ivy in l^oth cases and the injured persons died in a few minutes. Another instance (No. 291 clinical history) occurred in the Fuso : a case of a mutilated wound of the middle of the right leg by a fragment of funnel, and of a compound fracture on the right and the left <u'm. The clinical history states that in this