DISEASES OF THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 490 imperfect when compared with establishments on land. There is the necessary crowding' together of numbers of people in a small space, and the fact that in these training-ships the boys sleep, eat, work, and play all in the same place, whilst the sanitary arrangements—meaning thereby the arrangements for washing and tubbing the boys, the latrines for themselves, officers, and men, the washing and scrubbing of decks and of clothing, even to the drying of the latter, and the cooking appliances of the ship's company are influences decidedly pre- judicial to health. In large public schools these faulty methods do not exist, the schoolrooms, dining halls, dormitories, playgrounds, kitchens, lavatories, &c., being separate and distinct. Ventilating and drying arrangements, too, are defective, although, no doubt, the best that can be obtained under the circumstances. I do not refer to this in any deprecatory spirit, but solely from my standpoint as a medical officer, for I must, and with pleasure, admit that I always found on the part of the responsible officers on board that every etfort was made to carry out any suggestions of the medical officer which he considered likely to improve the liealth of the boys. It is impossible to thoroughly ventilate a ship without causing draughts. The boys sleep in hammocks in three layers of decks, one over the other, and these hammocks are triced up to within a few inches of the beams. The foul air thus has a tendency to accumulate between the beams, and so to be inhaled over and over again, and then, when it does escape, it largely passes into the decks above. Numerous openings at night are not advocated because of the difficulty of managing them, and of their tendency to create draughts, letting in wind, rain &c. Thus the decks are contaminated, the boys become more or less enfeebled, and fall an easy prey to diseases of the respiratory organs, which under more favourable hygienic surroundings would not have aftected them.