129 INJUKIES OF THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. the right epigastric region obUqnely to the fork of the thigh, so that the abdominal viscerfe protruded. He was killed on the spot. 183. —T. Izawa, aged 28, a seaman of the Tenryn, in the course of the bombard- ment on the eastern fort of Liiikiuig Island, on February 11th, 1895, was acting as a shell-carrier on the starboard side on the waist of the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the gear of No. 2 port-sidegun on the waist of the upper deck. One of the fragments of shell cut him in two at the epigastric region. He was killed outriglit. 184. —-AV. Ono, aged 22, one of the crew of 12 cm. gnu of the Tenryu, in the course of the attack on tlie eastern fort of Liukung Island, on February 11th, 1895, was standing on the starboard side on the waist of the upper deck, when a hostile shell burst against the gear of No. 2 port-side gun. One of the fragments of shell mutilated his trunk from the right epigastric region down to the fork of the thigh causing the protrusion of the abdominal viscerte. He was thus despatched outright. 185. —Compound fracture of pelvis and right thigh :—S. Mukunold, aged 22, one of the crew of No. 1 gun of the Akagi, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was firing No. 1 Q. F. gun on the starboard side on the bridge, when a shell entered by the stern, and burst against the support of the said gun. One of the fragments of shell mutilated the right side of pelvis and cut through the right thigh together witli the femoral artery. He died instantaneously from haemorrhage and shock. 186. —Mutilation of the lower half of the body :—T. Tokunaga, aged 25, a torpedo-man of the Matsushima, in tlie battle of the Yellow sea, was at his duty in tlie middle torpedo-chamber, when a shell dashed into the room through the port side and struck hiiu, so tbat the lower half of his body was completely mutilated, causing instant death. (The corpse of this man was not found for some time, but afterwards the upper half of his body was discovered blown into the store in front of the 32 cm. gun mounting behind the middle torpedo-chamber.) 187. —T. Miyake, aged 39, Chief-Surgeon of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was attending to an injured man in the surgery, (the ward-room at the rear of the lower deck) ; when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell dashed into the room piercing through the starboard side, and burst against the mizzen-mast. One of the large