BURNS. 215 343 —Burns of the face and forearms ;—I. Fnjita, aged 2G, a seaman of the Matsnsliima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, wus acting as an assistant signal-man on the fore part of the conning tower, when a hostile shell burst on the fore part of the lower deck, at the same time firing the ammunition stored for the side-gnns. By the flame of explosion coming out to the upper deck, he sustained burns of the 2nd degree on the face, outer sides of the forearms, and the backs of both hands. The injured man receiving temporary treatment on board the ship was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 20th. On admission, the face was blackened by powder flame, the hair of head singed, and the forearms and backs of the hands were studded with blisters and excoriations. The burns were dressed with wet boracic gauze. On October 2nd, the burns of the face were healed, and on tlie 9th those of the upper limbs. On the 11th, he returned to service. 314.—Burns of the face and forearms with sprain of the right ankle ;—A. Fukumori, aged 33, a member of the fore torpedo of the Matsushiiya, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was at work in the fore torpedo room, when a shell burst on the fore part of the lower deck and set on tire the ammunition stored for the side-guns. By the resulting flame rushing into the room, he received burns of the 2nd degree on the face, ears, and forearms, and at the same time, being thrown down by the shock of the explosion, the right ankle joint was sprained. The injured man was temporarily treated on board the ship, and on the 20th conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. "When admitted, the burned parts were blistering and the epidermis coming off in places, attended by the formation of pus. The right ankle joint was swollen and of a purplish colour, the pain preventing him from walking. The burns were dressed with wet boracic gauze, and the ankle joint with lead lotion. By the beginning of October, the burns of the face were completely healed ; and those of the forearms contracted to half the original sizes, the swelling of the ankle Avas gradually subsiding. On the 25th, the burns were all healed. The patient happened to be affected with sore throat, this was treated by gargle of chlorate of potash. On November 1st, the swelling of the ankle joint had entirely disappear- ed, but the local skin heat was comparatively high and a slight pain was felt in walking. Tincture of iodine was painted on. On the 14th, the patient returned to service. 345.—Burns of the face and upper extremities :—H. Nakamura, aged 34, a cook on board the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was going up the