PERFORATED WOUXDS. 345 of the first, the dilference between the sizes of the first and second in- lets must be mainly attributed to the difference of striking powers. When the first inlet was made, the shell fragment had too much force to give the skin time to yield, accordingly a large hole was produced ; but when the exit was formed, not only was the force weakened, but, in addition, OAving to the difficulty of finding a way out by breaking non-resistant skin obliquely, it allowed the skin to extend so as to pro- duce a comparatively small hole ; again, when the inlet on the chest- wall was made, the force was still further lessened and the skin stretched downwards and inwards at the 8th rib, till it broke at the 10th rib. The inlet was therefore much smaller than that at the elbow, though much larger than the exit, but this Avas probably because when the wounds were made there was a difierence in the tension of the skin. The 25th instance was a case half-way between a perforated and a blind wound. In this case, though the shell-fragment thrust its point out through the skin, it could not entirely come out owing to entire loss of force. An object weak in force can not break the skin from with- in, for the latter offers an elastic resistance—that is, the skin has a remarkable yielding power which it is not easy for a weakened pro- jectile to perforate. As it often happens with blind wounds that shell- fragments stop under the skin, so thei-e is no wonder that a spent fragment should remain after merely breaking the skin. The only thing strange in the present case is, that there were two shell-frag- ments in the exit wound. These two fragments were at first thought to have been originally a single one, which being already partly cracked split into two on encountering the resistance of the tissues, when it penetrated the body. However, these pieces, when examined, w^ere found not to coincide on any surface, so they must be' regarded as distinct pieces which strangely enough struck one and the same spot and made a single wound.