INJUUIES OF THE HEAD. 75 inner wall of the shield of fcliat gun, some of the shell fragments struck him on the head inflicting several penetrating wounds of the sknll. He died on the spot. 59.—T. Uchizaki, aged 2G, Snb-Lientenant of the Fnso was, in the battle of the Yellow sea, standing, in command of the port battery, under the booms of the upper waist-deck, when a shell pierced through the water way of the upper declc, and burst against the l)Ooms and iron pillar of the port side. By one of the fragments, he sustained a penetrating wound just midway between tlie right frontal eminence and the coronal suture. The lesion was an irregular lacerated wound 2 cm. long and about half as wide, with a round hole about 1 cm. in diameter in the frontal bone, no cerebral symptoms were present. The wound was directly cleansed and a corrosive gauze applied. On the 21st, the patient was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. The surface of the wound was at the time covered with healthy granulation, but insomnia was present. On examining the wound, the whole thickness of the cranium was found to be perforated, but where the foreign body was lodged could not be ascertained. The temperature indicated 38.° 5 C, the hair around the wound was shaved off; antiseptic precautions being most carefully obserevd. The patient was kept perfectly quiet. On the 28th, he com- plained of giddiness, headache and a slight nausea with disturbed sleep during the night. The wound however presented no bad signs, the temperature having reached to normal from September 23rd, an ice-bag was applied to the head, calomel purgatives and occasional administrations of hypnotics were resorted to. On October 7tli, the headache entirely disappeared and the spirits became enlivened, with increased appetite. On the 16th, there was occasional complaint of tinnitus aurium; the temperature normal, the pulse slow, counting 55 ; a mixture of bromide of potassium and iodide of potassium was administered internally. November 2ud, giddiness, tinnitus aurium aggravated with chills and fever ; the temperature showing 38°.3C. The wound had been discharging a slight pus for some days, so bandage was renewed daily and ice was continuously applied to the head ; cerebral symptoms, however, indicating compression of the brain became apparent. On the 7tli next, trephining was performed under strict observance of antiseptic measures. In the frontal fossa an abscess was formed which discharged a thick ygllow pus and yellowish serum, but the situation of the foreign body could not be ascertained. The pus cavity was washed out witli a solution of boracic acid and a drainage tube intro- duced. The antiseptic dressing was changed everyday. After the operation the subjective symptoms were mucli relieved, the temperature stood at 37.°5 or 37.°6C.; but