INJDRIES OE' THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 18G was applied a lead lotion; and iodoform was sprinkled over those of the head and ear, which were then sealed with adhesive plaster. On the 23rd, the abrasion of the head and ear had accomplished union ; on the 30th, the swelling and pain of the shoulder and foot had entirely gone. (C). INJUEIES.OF THE AEM. 195.—Contusion of the right arm:—K- Kawabata, aged 21, a seaman of the Hiyei, at the naval battle of tlie Yellow sea, was opening the door of the magazine under the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell exploded in the ward-room on the lower deck, thus breaking the deck and planks. One of the wooden splinters caused a subcutaneous extravasation of an irregularly oval shape measuring 3 cm. in diameter on the outer side of the middle part of the right upper arm, attended with an abrasion of skin at its center. A wet carbolic gauze was applied, and the part healed on the 21st of the same month. 19G.—Contusion of the left upper arm:—H. Knbo, a gunner of the Yoshiuo, aged 28. In the course of the attack on the eastern forts of Liukung Island, Feb- ruary 7th, 1895, he was firing on the fort of No. 6 side-gnn on the larboard, when a hostile shell hit the shield of No. 6 3-pounder on the port side. By one of the broken pieces of that shield, he sustained a contasioa on the outer and back part of the left upper arm, Avhere an abrasion of some G cm. square was inflicted with swelling, pain and extravasation underneath, but without any lesion of bone. A wet carbolic gauze was applied and the wound healed on the 17th of the same month. 197.—H. Marubashi, Sub-Lieutenant of the Fuso, aged 27, at the naval engage- ment of the Yellow sea, September 17th, 189'1, was engaged, on the fore-bridge, in surveying the distances of the enemy's vessels, when a hostile shell exploded on the upper deck, the shell-fragments flew up and struck the semaphore signalstand, and one of them struck rebounding, the upper part of his left arm. On examination, an abrasion was found on the front and outer part of the left arm with an extravasa- tion under the skin around the wound. Marked swelling existed over the shoulder and the upper part of the arm, so as to interfere with free movements of the joint, but no injury of boue Avas found. A wet carbolic gauze was applied over the part and strict rest ordered. On the IBtli, the swelling, aggravated extending down to the front part of the left side of the chest. On the 25th, the swelling decreased, and ecchy- mosis made its appearance on the upper and back part of the shoulder and the back of