184 IXJUIUES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. deep muscles were left, the v/onucl was 18 c. m. iu the vertica], and 12 c. m. in the transverse diameters. However, the posterior tibial artery fortunately escaped injury, so hfemorrliage was not serious, and no fracture occurred. As to the left thigli, there was a lacerated wound 4 c. m. above the knee-joint on the inner side of the lower fourth, and some 3 cm. above tlie knee-cap ; and just in front of this Avound there was another lacerated one about 3 c. m. in size. They had communicat- ed under the skin. Examined at the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 20tli of September, the wound of the calf was suppurating, the severed ends of the gastroc- nemius presented gangrenous conditions, and pain was so severe that sound sleep could not be obtained. The wound Avas washed with 3% solution of carbolic acid, and bandaged, a dose of morphine powder was given, and the bandage was changed daily. By the 25th, the pieces of flesh in the wound on the calf had nearly all sloughed off, so that tiie part besame somewhat clean, yet the pas discliarge was still copious and attended with pain. A mixture of brandy and an infusion of cin- chona bark Avas administered internally. On the 28tli, the temperature rose a little, and the patient complained of headache and a dull pain all over the body. On examination the Avound was found to be progressing favorably, the sloughs having all come off and pus discharge greatly decreased. Tlie bandage was changed and a dose of quinine Avas prescribed with an acidulated drink. On October 9th, the temperature became normal and tlie canal of the perforated wound in the lower part of the left thigh had filled up and only presented two small granulating surfaces. The Avound of the calf developed auspicious granulations Avith but little pus discharge. The bandage was changed every other day, and a mixture of iron and quinine administered internally. By November 17th, the wound of the left thigh had healed, forming scabs, and that of the calf had contracted so that it cicatrized by January 15th of next year. The knee-joint on the injured side became ankylosed at an angle of about 150°, and the part below that cicatrix was found sliglitly oedematous attended Avitli numbness. Tliis was probably due to the pressure caused by the contraction of the cicatrix. Local hot batliing, friction Avith spirit of camphor, and massage Avere perseveringly carried on. Though the oedema gradually subsided, the injured limb became much emaciated and the numbness was not perfectly cured, and, on standing, p'ain was felt in the affected limb, so that the patient could not walk Avithout a stick. On April 19th, he was dismissed from service for life and pensioned according to the regulations.