THE BATTLE OF YALtT. 3'2 Coutnsio)! of right side of chest and right arm and coiiipound fracture of the right lower extreiuity 3rd class stoker y. >Jilioiigi. Mutilation of the thoracic, and dorsa! regions, and of the lower liiub. ... •1th class seaman A. Takenaka. Crashed wound of the cranium 4th class seaman M. Cliikamatsii. Lacerated wounds of the lower jaw, and neck, and contused wounds of the abdominal region and the lower Crushed cranium limb 4th class seaman 4th class seaman S. Moroyu. H. Nishihara. After the examination, the corpses were in succession carefully wrapped i)i blankets and canvas. This inspection ended at three o'clock in the afternoon. The wounded who were alive numbered 35 ; of whom 19, being considered to need treat- ment in the hospital, on consultation Avith other surgeons, were removed to the transports, 10 to the Geukai-maru, 5 to the Doyo-maru, and 4 to the Chiyo-maru. On that day the sea was running very high, and we experienced great difBculty in taking them on board the transports. The remaining 17, being rather slightly wounded, were left to undergo treatment in the ship, which, havuig effected a few absolutely necessary repairs, left the rendezvous again for Haiyang island. At 10.20 p.m., the burial services of the late Chief Surgeon Miyake and nineteen others Avere commenced, and at 10.40, the ship being brought to halt, their honorable remains were committed to the deep, at 38° 21' north latitude and 124° 23' east longitude. At eleven, we steamed on again, and arrived, at noon of the 19th, in the vicinity of Haiyang island, where we sought for our squadron in vain ; advancing further, we came to the mouth of the Taiyang river and cruised about with no better success ; so Ave veered towards the Yahi, but as night had set in, again changing our course, we returned to the anchorage at half past six on the morning of the 20th, where we found ourselves again with the Principal Squadron. When anchored in the station, A\'e Avere visited l)y surgeons from the Hashidate, by whom the wounded were for a time attended and treated. However, on the 22ud I was transferred to the chief surgeoncy of the ship by order of tlie Chief Commander of the Combined Squadron ; I removed aboard her directly and made arrangements for replacing the medical materials lost at the tight oa tlie Yellow sea as well as