INJURIES OF THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. 125 a portion of the anterior superior spine was broken. Thus the injured man cli^cl on the spot, owing to the great loss of blood, and shock. 1G7.—Penetrating wound of sacro-iliac jointJ- Umimichi, aged 21, a seaman of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was stationed at the relieving tackle in the cabin on the after-part of the lower declc, whon an enormous shell exploded in the ward-room. The fragments scattered about, greatly damaging the cabin, and one of the wooden splinters wedged itself into the man's sacro-iliac joint. As all the surgeons on board were killed at that very moment, he had simply to be dressed by one of the crew, until the proper treatment was given by the surgeons frnm the other ships, when the ship arrived next morning at the naval station near Cape Choppcki. On examination, a wooden splinter was found wedged in between the left sacro-iliac joint, the entrance wound measured 5 cm. long and 8 cm. wide; and the n'largins were lacerated. On trying to extract the piece with a forceps it was found no easy matter; so after the application of an antiseptic dressing, the patient was ordered to keep rest. Soon after the injury, paraplegia of the lower extremities and incontinence of urine followed. On the 19th, he was removed to a transport to be transferred to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the wound discharged Copiously ; both the sacrum and ilium behig broken at the joint, presented the shape of ragged rocks ; pain extreme at the slightest movement of the body ; urine passed incontinently. On the 2'2nd, u\ider clilorotbrm, the wound was slightly widened and the wooden splinter wedged into the joint extracted. However, the piece was so tightly inserted that only a part of it and some broken pieces of bone were extracted, and that only by main force. On probing the bottom of the wound further, it was found that the rest of the splinters, by forcing itself into the joint had reached the pelvic cavity. At this point the operation was stopped for the day, and the wound cleansed by an antiseptic solution ; the temperature indicated 39°. 20. in the night; evacuations passed unconsciously, and the urine contained blood." Copious discharg- es from the wound frequently soiled the dressing. On the 2.'')th, the remaining piece of wood was extracted under chloroform ; and the bladder washed out by a solution of boracic acid. Every effort was made to Iceep of the patient's strength both by food and tonics, and from that time, the temperature, ranged between 88° and 89°C. The discharge from the wound was profuse ; urine mixed with blood and pus passed involuntarily, so that the exhaustion aggravating day by day, the patient at last died on the 10th of October.