INJURIES OF 'I'HE LOWEK EXTREMITY. 180 tare fell to 37°. 6 C. On the 27tli the tempei-ature become normal, the canal of the wound of the scapular region developed favorable granulation, pus discharge was slight, the flap of the stump of the thigh united perfectly and by December 29th the wound of the scapular region had formed a cicatrix. On January 8tli, 1895, the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital and on the 31st a sudden outbreak of fever set in and the amputated stump of the thigh presented an erysipelatous appearance. Ichthyol collodium was applied over the affected part and on February 3rd, the erysipelatous patches began to subside; on the 5th the temperature became normal, and on tbe 10th signs of erysipelas were all gone. In April, H. M. the Empress graciously conferred on him an artificial limb. On IMay 10th, he was discharged from the service for life and pensioned according to the regulations. (The artificial limb is shown in the illustration) 271.—Penetrating wound of the right knee joint, and contused wounds of head, face and upper limb:—W. Yamanoncbi, aged 18, a seaman ou the Yoshino, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was passing the after part of the upper deck, when a shell pierced through the starboard netting and exploded toge- ther with the 12 c. m. shells placed in a row along the side of the ship. He sustained a slight burn on the face with grains of powder sticking into the skin, and the shell fragments inflicted many wounds:—small contused wounds, one each on the forehead, left parietal region and the left temple; a longitudinally lacerated wound over the left malar arch ; three small contused wounds in the back of the lower third of the right forearm, an abrased wound on tbe back of the right wrist joint and a longitudinally lacerated wound, 3 c. m. long, between the thumb and index finger of tlie right hand ; and a seriously lacerated wound on the knee- joint 5 c. m. long, running laterally just above the patella. The margins were lacerated in a serrated form; the quadriceps tendon being partly torn tbe joint cavity opened and the patella displaced downwards : a part of bone sustained fracture, so that tiie articular surface of the femur was exposed. However, both the femur and tibia were uninjured. The wound was searched and several tiny pieces of bone and a shell fragment were extracted. The wounds were all treated antiseptically, and the limb kept at rest on a splint. The patient was taken on the 19th on board a transport, and admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. By tliat time, tbe burn of the face was found already healed, and almost all the other wounds on the head, face and arm had developed granulation without suppuration. But the wound of the knee-