THE BATTLE OF YX'Lt. 45 the lower deck, where the surgery was stationed. In this case, they were ordered to use truck-stays (an ohiong canvas with poles passing through its cuds) or simply to carry the wounded on the back hy means of a rope. At first there were only two bearers, who worked with great assiduity, but later on in the action as the numbers of the wounded increased, it Avas felt that they were not sufScient to meet the emergency. For, deafened by the roaring of the guns, and consequently unable to catch the customary signals and cries for help, they had to take the trouble of hurrying about in search of the sufferers. In my opinion, at least four carriers for every hundred men should be provided, it being always possible that the carriers may themselves be injured. During the hottest part of the battle, cook- ing can not actually be carried on, so all the stewards and cooks might take the duty of carriers. On consultation with the Captain, it was decided that henceforth in our ship the carriers should consist of a steward and four cooks assisted by six tackle-men. Again, in a hard fight like this, in which so many were wounded at one time, it was extremely difficult for one surgeon to give prompt and proper treatment to all, especially in tiie case of wounds requiring complicate operations with the administra- tion of an anEesthetic. Another matter that attracted our attention during the engagement Avas the great need of water. Whether the climate be cold or hot, men get exceedingly thirsty from over-exertion, and drinking water should therefore be abundantly provided on such occasions. In our ship during the preparations for the fight, copper vessels or- dinarily used for serving boiled rice had been filled with water and placed at each gun. Besides this, a large quantity was required for Avashing wounds, etc., and it must be remembered that the quantity of combustible material, such as canvas, and Avood, brings with it a great danger of conflagration which necessitates a liberal supply of water for its extinction. The Saikio Mam. i.—At 1.14 p.m. two 30.5 cm. shells that came at the same moment, between the starboard main riggings, smashed the wardroom and several adjoining rooms, and then ])iercing through the port side, fell into the water some 20 meters oft" the ship's side. 2.—At 2.22 p.m. a couple of 30.5 cm. shells rebounding from the water about 200 meters to the starboard, passed through the ward-