67 INJURIES OP THE HEAD. of the magazine in the third quarter of the lower deck, when a tremendous shell ex- ploded in the ward-room. One of the flying pieces inflicted a contused wound on the npper margin of the riglit temporal region. Though the wound reached the hone yet there was no fracture. However, the tips of the left fingers were affected with anaesthesia and paresis. The patient, after temporary treatment in the vessel, was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st of tlie same montli, wliere after some days the pain of the wound was much relieved. When he was removed to the Kure Hospital nine days afterwards, the wound of tlie scalp was almost covered with newly developed skin, leaving a mere spot of granulation at the centre, but the numbness of the fingers still continued though much diminished. The surface of the wound was anointed with zinc ointment and a mixture of iodide of potassium given internally. On October 6th, the wound healed by scabbing, followed by a subsidence of the paresis of the fingers. By October 10th, he had completely recovered and left the hospital to resume his former service. 42. —Contused wound of the right mastoid region :—I. Fukazawa, aged 24, an oil man of the Saikyo-maru, in the same battle with the above, was stand- ing near the entrance to the engine-rooin as a relief-hand, when two 30.5 cm. shells entered the ward-room on the upper deck and simultaneously exploded in front of the ward-room on the port side. Fragments of the shells and pieces of wood were pushed about, one of which inflicted a wound on the head just over the mastoid pro- cess. On examination the wound was found to be shallow and the bleeding and pain very slight, iodoform was sprinkled over it and it was covered with adhesive plaster. It imd healed by scabbing by the 2()th of the same month. 43. —G-utter wound of the left parietal region:—Kawamitsu, aged 20, a magazine man of the Hiyei : during the battle of the Yellow sea, he was working at the entrance of the magazine xmder the lower deck, Avhen a 30.5 cm. shell ex- ploded in the ward-room, one of the fragments caine crashing through the deck and inflicted a wound on his head. On examination a groove wound 3 cm. in length, 1 cm. in width and in depth was found on the right parietal region. It was irregularly lacerated on its edges presenting a ragged appearance, at the bottom of it an irregular wedge-shaped fragment of the shell, of the size of a bean, was perceived but the bone was intact. The fragment was extracted and an antiseptic dressing applied. On the 28th of the same mojith, granulation developed and the discharge of pus had almost ceased. On October 8th, the wound healed up by a cicatrix.