INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 179 the right ear plugged with sterilized cotton, and the Surgeon went on dnty again, but about 6 p. m., the left knee-joint began to swell and at about 9 p. in. the skin around became tense and heated, so that even slight movements could not be perform- ed, and the temperature rose to 88°. 50. The injured limb was put in a back splint and a cold solution of carbolic acid was incessantly applied. The wound on the head healed in 10 days without suppuration, and the rupture of the tympanic membrane in 3 weeks leaving an induration of the membrane and consequent dulness of hearing. The inflammation of the knee-joint gradually abated, and the wound contracted with a gradual return of movement. Tincture of iodine and bandages were applied, and on the 20th of November, though not fully recovered, he was able to resume his duty. 270.—Compound fracture of the left knee joint with blind wound of the shoulder :—Toyozumi, aged 29, one of the gun-crew of the Fuso, during the battle of the Yellow sea, was resting on the left side of the funnel-casing, when a shell pierced through the lower part of the funnel, and some of the iron-fragments struck the front of his left knee-joint, smashing the patella and the lower end of the femur. Some bleeding occurred but the popliteal artery Avas not injured. There was also a blind wound running upwards and outwards from the inner and lower part of the left scapula its margins were lacerated, and it measured 13 c. m. in depth reaching the posterior surface of the scapula. The bone was not injured. The wounds were sealed with antiseptic bandages. The patient's mind was normal, and he com- plained only of the pain, so morphine was injected hypodermically and he was ordered absolute rest. On the 18th, resection of the icnee-joint was performed, and the part was kept on a splint. The blind wound of the scapular region was furnished with a counter opening and a drainage-tube was introduced. On the 19th of the same month the patient was taken on board a transport bound for home and reached the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. On the 22nd the wound of the scapular region showed auspicious signs attended with a slight escape of pus while that of the knee- joint discharged thin grayish pus, granulation was dull; a very offensive smell was emitted, and the part below the knee joint became cool and numb and as the tip of the oot was already turning a purplish color, and the bodily temperature had risen to 38°.7 C, it became evident that owing to the arrest of the circulation consequent to the injury of the popliteal artery, the leg had mortified. Accordingly amputation of the thigh at the lower third was performed by the oval method. On the 23rd the tempera-