174 JNJURIES OF T3E LOWER EXTREMITY. Fig. 13, Fragment of shell extracted from the wound of the right thigh (a piece of linen attached). fore-arm was dried np, hxit that of the thigh liad a sUght discharge of pns, aud on prohiug tlie wound tliere were tljree pieces of hone, whicli were extracted; tlien the riglit thigli was kept extended hy weight. Progress was auspicious and on Novemher tlie Gth, tlie wound liad liealed and the fracture united. On Decemher the 10th, walking became normal and he returned to service. 260. —Compound fracture of the right thigh with contused wound of the right shoulder ;—A. Yamazaki, aged 23j one of a torpedo crew of the Itsuku- shima, during the battle of the Yellow sea, was working in the torpedo-room in the fore part, when a hostile shell exploded, striking the torpedo net boom on the ship's side, and breaking through it, the fragments of tli'j shell dashed into the said torpedo- room. By one of the fragments, he had the righ.t thigh perforated from the front to the inner and lower part at the upper third, causing the rupture of the femoral vessels, and fracture of the femur (tlie wound on the anterior part was regarded as the entrance of the fragment, and was of an irregular square form, measuring 3 c. m. in diameter, the other wound appeared to be the exit and was rather smaller having the appearance of a rent) ; besides these he received a vertically lacerated wound 4 c. m. in diameter on the right shoulder. He died on the spot owing to haemorrhage and the shock. 261. —Compound fracture of the right thigh and ths right hand with the burns of the lower half of the body :—C. Yoshibayashi, aged 24, a cook on board the Hiyei during the engagement of the Y'^ellow sea, was standing on the port side in the forepart of the upper deck as a carrier of the wounded, when a hostile shell came over the starboard waist netting, and exploded striking the stan- chion of the port booms. His right hand was smashed off by one of the shell-frag- ments and he was immediately conveyed to the surgery in the ward-room at therear of the lower deck, and was undergoing a surgical operation, when a gain a 30.5 c. m. shell of the enemy exploded in that very room, and one of the fragments perforated his right thigh. By this catastrophe all the medical staff on board the ship were killed, so he was compelled then to receive a mere temporary dressing at the hands of his comrades, and on the next morning the ship having dropped anchor at the naval station near Cape Clioppeki, he was properly treated by surgeons from other