FEOST-BITE. 223 368.—Frost-bite and contusion :—U. Tesluma, aged 27, crew of No. 22 torpedo boat, met with the same fate as the above man. Falhng into the sea, he swam ashore as best he could, from whence despite the difficulty of walking on account •of his frozen limbs he contrived by creeping along to get to our occupied fort of Lokkaknshi. On the way, he often fell from prostration receiving severe bruises, but mnstei iiig all his strength, he arrived at the fort when he was given relief by surgeons •of the 23i'd regiment of tlie infantry, and on the same day was admitted to the 2nd Permanent Army Hospital at Kosan-go. The back, loins, gluteal regions and legs had pains ; the lower limbs lost power which disabled him from standing ; the fingers of both hands lost their movements, and were slightly swollen and tender on pressure; the toes were somewhat swollen from determination of blood. Spirit of camphor was rubbed on the affected parts, and the patient was kept warm and at rest. On the 9th, symptoms improving a little, he was removed on board a transport and on the 18th admitted to the Army Hospital at Hiroshima. At the time of his admission, he was found still impaired in nutrition, temperature 35°.6 C, pulse 60, appetite impaired, bowels constipated, pain at several parts of the head, which he said to be severest in the forehead and the right temple. As to the chest, dull pain was felt along the outer margin of the right pectoralis major and in the left 2nd intercostal space, which was increased by deep inspiration. On the back, the pain was felt on percussion in the left inter-scapular region, and over the 6th, 7th and 8th dorsal vertebrae, and all over the sacrum. Also pain was felt in the shoulder and the elbow joints ; the fingers of both hands except the thumbs had anaesthesia and paresis with lingering determination of blood and swelling ; the legs had pains in the calves ; both feet had pains also and the toes were numbed; the patellar reflex was strikingly ni- creased, and walking was very difficult. Under suitable treatment in the hospital, he recovered greatly and was on March lOtli transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. At that time, nutrition was greatly restored ; temperature and pulse returned to normal condition ; the fingers and toes were cold and slightly congested, and the skin of the palmar surface of the index, middle, and ring fingers, was stretched tightly and excessively sensitive, even mere touch gave severe pain. The pain in both calves, and dull pain in the right side of chest was still lingering slightly. Warm bath, friction of the skin with stimulating liniment and tonic and nutritious diets were chiefly resorted to, and on April 2ud, completely recovered, he returned to service.