177 I.NJURIES OP THE LOWER EXTEEMl'l'Y. right tliigh at its upper third. He died on the spot owing to lieavy lifemorrhage and tlie shock. 26G.—Mutilation of the left thigh and right leg;—G- Nishidani, aged 26, a petty officer on hoard tlie Hiyei, in the hattle of the Yellow sea, was carrying the wounded in the upper deck to the ward-room (surgery) in the after part of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. liostile sliell knocked through the starboard side of the stern and exploded in the surgery. By one of the shell-fragments, liis left thigli and right leg were mutilated. He was killed then and there owing to heavy bleeding and the shock. (C) INJURIES OF THE KNEE. 2fi7.—Contusion of the right knee R- Tanaka, aged 24, one of gun-crew of the Yosliino in the course of the bombardment of Liukung Island, on February the 7th, 1895, was loading the shell of No. G 12c. m. gun on the port side amidships, when a hostile sliell hit the shield of No. 6 3 pounder and destroyed it. The brolcen pieces of the shield flew about and crushed No. 2 cutter together with the gear stow- ed away in it. He was struck by one of the wooden splinters on the right knee. A palm sized subcutaneous extravasation was present on the outer side of the joint, ac- companied by swelling and pain, so that he was unable to walk. However, the joint was not injured. A bandage was applied to the part, and he was ordered to keep quiet. On the 8th, he was transferred to the hospital ship Kobe-maru. Examination on board the vessel, showed that the swelling was more aggravated than it had been the day before, and a wracking pain was complained of at tlie part on the outer sides of the knee-joint and the calf. Lead lotion was applied. In due course of time, the swelling subsided, and the subcutaneous extravasation was absorbed. On the 20tli, the patient was conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At this time, there still remain- ed an induration in the injured part, which gave pain on pressure, but the extravasa- tion was nearly absorbed, and the walking was not much interfered with. Spirit of camphor was applied and the part was covered by bandage. On Marcli 5th, the patient left the hospital completely recovered. 268.—Contused wound of the right knee and leg:—0. Saito, aged 23, one of a gtni-crew on the Yosliino, during the engagement of the Yellow sea, was firing the 3 pounder on the starboard quarter-deck, when a hostile shell exploded on the said deck after piercing the starboard netting. Some of the sliell fracrments inflict-