ox THE BATTLE OF THE YELLOW SEA. 235 From the above table No. 5, we see that the part that sustained the greatest number of shells was ' higher than the upper deck,' which received no less than 51 shells, then comes the ' upper deck ' which received 44, and lastly the ' middle and lower decks' which received 38. As for the part below the water-line, it received only 1 shell and that striking at about 1 foot below the line, was so weakened in its force that no remarkable damage was incurred except that some of the outer platings were pierced. To compute the proportional rate of shells received on the respective decks by percentage, 'higher than the upper decks ' is 38.06 ' the upper decks ' 32.84 the ' middle and lower decks' 28.36 and 'below the water-line' 0.75 %. The rate of the killed and wounded does not however bear exact proportion to the number of shells received. Thus as is shown in table No. 6, 134 persons (44.97 %) were either killed or injured on the lower decks, 117 (39.26 %) on the upper decks, 31(10.40 %) above the up- per decks, 15 (5.03 %) below the water-line and 1 (0.34 %) at the place outside of the ship. This result is attributable to the fact that on the lower decks many a person is apt to be injured by broken pieces of the walls or of furniture, etc., which inflict damages known as indirect-shells, and partly to the fact that in the Matsushima a very large number was either killed or wounded by one shell that burst on the lower deck and caused the large amount of gunpowder lying there to explode. Even on the upper decks more persons were some- times injured by indirect shells than by the direct ones, and the upper decks might have been the scenes of more numerous deaths and injuries than the lower decks, if it had not been that in the late naval battle the number of injuries on the upper deck turned out to be compara- tively small on account of the explosion of the gun-powder on the lower deck of the Matsushima as mentioned above. Above the upper