PERFORATED WOUNDS. 339 in lengtli. The patient was firm in mind, witliont any sign of shock, but incessantly complained of severe pain in the abdomen, rolling about and sweating profusely. In spite of the desire to pass urine, it was impossible. On introducing a catheter, only blood was drawn, indicating that the bladder was also injured. The patient died in 8 hours after the injury. (No. 173.) 24:th instance :—While standing on the bridge, the person received a perforating wound in the abdomen, and fell overboard being killed on the spot. (No. 168.) 25th instance:—A perforating wound was inflicted on the lower third of the right thigh. The entrance hole had an irregular triangular shape, 3.6 cm. at the base and 2 cm. at each border, and the exit presented a small laceration as is seen in the illustration of the clinical history in which a part of the shell-fragment was shown to protrude. Within the wound two shell-fragments (shown in the illustration of the clinical history) were found. The wound was healed after a lapse of 3 months. (No. 257.) 26th instance :■—Two persons received perforating wounds of the chest at the fort of Lutsotsai from which they died on the spot. The size of the wounds was not recorded. (No. 146 and 151.) The perforating Avound.s caused by shell-fragmerits numbered 33, which proportioned to 289, the total number of various wounds pro- duced by the same cause, bears only a ratio of 11.42 per cent, which is smaller than 33.56 of contused wounds, 19.72 of blind wounds, and 16.26 of abrased wounds. This is because as h;is already been explained the shell-fragments which are the chief cause of the gun- shot wounds have an irregular shape and coarse surface and are not only unfit for penetration, but have a gre:it variety of sizes. The large and consequently powerful ones frecp^ently produce mutilated wounds, as they are unfit for piercing, while the weaker ones cause contused wounds, contusions, or abrased wounds. Thus it is very rare that perforating wounds are produced by large frngments of shell, the small fra'^ments may well enter tissues, but owing to lack of force, mostly produce blind wounds and very rarely perforating ones.