155 lyjURTES OF THE UPPER EXriiEMITY. and occipito-froutalis were perforated, bnt witliont injuring the pericranium or the bone. On the dorsum of the left hand was found an irregular star-shaped, lacerated wound 3 cm. in diameter at the ulnar side of the first metacarpus, which broke the 2nd, 3rd and 4th metacarpal bones and the exit found its way to the dorsal aspect at the radial side of the 5th metacarpus, where it presented a vertical lacerated wound 3 cm. long. Bleeding was profuse but not arterial. Another contused wound was seen above and behind the great trochanter of the left femur, which was the size of the tip of the little finger, 3 cm. in depth but without reaching the bone. Antiseptic dressings were ap- plied to the wounds and a splint to the left hand. By a transport bound for home on the 19th, he was taken to the Sasebo Naval Ho.spital. At the time of admission, the wounds of the head and buttock had developed healthy granulation, while that of the hand suppurated, and the canal of the wound had an unhealthy granulation and retain- ed some pieces of broken lx)ne. These foreign bodies were extracted, the part washed with carbolic lotion and iodoform gauze applied. On the 28th of the same month, the injuries of the head and buttock were healed by granulation. The condition of the wound of the hand was unfavorable, so on the 30th, under the influence of an ans'e- sthetic, the woiind was enlarged, and a vertical incision made on the radial side of the metacarpus of the middle finger; the broken ends of the metacarpus of the index-finger were sawn away, but as the metacarpus of the middle-finger was smashed, it was taken off at the joints above and below; that of the ring-finger was smashed at its lower-end, so this part was separated from the metacarpo-plialangeal joint, but as the tipper end of the bone was found intact, the broken end being pointed, was simply sawn away. Then the incision of the dorsum was sutured and a drainage tube intro- duced. On October 8th, the incision wound of the hand having accomplished the primary union, the threads were removed ; tlie entrance and exit wounds on the dorsum still discharged a little pus but granulation was healthy. On December 7th, the entrance wound healed by granulation; but the exit still discharged some pus, from the sinus leading about 2 c. m. inwards and upwards so the sinus was touched with nitrate of silver. On January 21th, 1895, the exit wound at last cicatrized, but the removal of the metacarpi of the index, middle and ring fingers caused the loss of the functions of those fingers and moreover the movements of the thumb and little finger were greatly impaired. Thus disabled, he was, on March IGth, dismissed from the service for life, and pensioned according to the regulations.