BLIND AND PENETEA.TING WOUNDS. 3215 the case exactly, yet the iron-piece iiitist have heen exceptionally force- ful as the base of the skull vas smashed, and as the injured person was then close by the funnel, of which the piece was a fragment: also the shape of the fragment probably had much to do with its deep penetration. The 4th example was a very interesting one,—a lacerat- ed wound 5 cm. long in the upper part of the right thigh, within which was retained a large fragment of the stanchion 13 cm. long 7 cm. in diameter (see the illustration in the clinical history). The entrance orifice of the blind wound produced by an iron-piece should usually be smaller than the piece itself, as in the case of the orifices made by shell-frngments, whenever it strikes at right angles a part rich in soft tissues ; and if the velocity of the iron-piece is weaker than that of a shell-fr;igment, this will be more particularly the case. The -fth example proves this more than sufficiently, for the iron-piece was so large compared with the size of the wound orifice, that it was hard to conjecture liow it could have entered through such a hole. Whether the iron-piece struck the skin with its long axis, or otherwise is not known, yet at any rate its size compared with the hole is in- comparably large. This was probably because it had greatly stretched the skin by pressure before penetrating it, otherwise the hole could not have been so comparatively smtdl. And so remarkable an exten- sion of skin should not be attributed only to tlie size and weight of the said iron-fragment, but it must ulso have borne some relation to the reception of a mutilated wound in the neighborhood. For, the part just below the present wound had been entirely mutilated by a shell, and as the velocity of a shell should be greater than that of an iron piece, so the mutilated wound must have been inflicted previously to the present injury, be it ever so little earh'er. '1 herefore, at the time when the iron-piece struck the skin, the latter was certainly