161 INJURIES OP THE UPPElt EXTREMITY. breaking tlie outer plating of the ship's side. To repair tlie hole made on the outer plating, be was out on the ship's side, when by the sharp edges of the hole, he in- flicted wounds on the hand and fingers. On examination, shallow contused wounds on the palmar aspects of the 2ud phalanges of the thumb, middle and ring fingers were discovered with slight hasmorrhage. Sublimate gauze was applied. On the 21st of the same month, they healed under scabs. 237. —Lacerated wound of the right thumb :—H. Hayakawa, aged 26, a stoker belonging to the Hiyei, in the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was posted as a member of the fire-brigade, and was working ; as a temporary assistant to a shell carrier, in the 4th division of the lower deck when a hostile shell exploded in the ward-room of the 5th division. At that moment, he received a lacerated wound on the right thumb by one of the flying wooden splinters. After being temporarily dressed on board the ship, the patient was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital and ad- mitted on the 21st of the same mouth. The condition of the wounds, was this ; on the ulnar side of the ungual phalanx of the right thumb was found a vertically lacerated wound 2 cm. in length and 1 cm. in depth but not reaching the bone, besides, the nail of the left great toe was stripped off. The patient perfectly recovered on October 1st and returned to the service. 238. —Lacerated wound of the left thumb :—M. Okura, aged 20, a stoker on board the Hiyei, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was posted as a member of the fire-brigade, and was temporarily assisting to carry shells. When he was passing the 4th section of the lower deck, a hostile shell exploded in the ward-room of the 5th section, and he was wounded on the left thumb by one of the flying shell frag- ments. Simple dressing was used on board, and on the 21st following he was con- veyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Condition of the wound :—^On the ulnar side of the left thumb was found a vertically lacerated wound, the margins of which were torn raggedly, and which was 3 cm. long and 1 cm. in depth, but not reaching the bone. Under the use of an antiseptic bandage, it healed by granulation, He left the hospital completely cured on October 19th to resume his duties. 239. —Simple fracture of the right thumb :—U. Shibuya, aged 30, one of a torpedo crew of the Hiyei, at about 11.30 a.m. September 17th, 1894, just before the commencement of the battle of the Yellow sea, while assisting in conveying a torpedo, he slipped down by accident in the fore part of the lower deck. He happened to thrust his right thumb against the deck causing a fracture at the middle