115 INJURIES 01-' THE CHEST AN'D BACK. side of tlie chest, breaking tlie 4tli rib and passing out by the back. Burns of the liead and face wel-e also sustained. He died on the spot, 149. —Perforated wound of the thorax and upper arm:—K. Yanagi- wara, aged 30, senior blacksmith of the Itsnlcnshiiua, iu the battle of the Yellow sea, was in the fore torpedo-chamber, when an enemy's shell exploded against the torpedo-net boom and crushed the ship's side. The fragment of shell entered the torpedo-chamber and inflicted a large perforated womid of the chest, piercing the front of the right side of the chest wall, breaking ribs and finding an exit at the back. There was another perforated Avonnd in the middle of the left npper arm ; excessive bleeding occurred from both wounds, yet his mind was very firm. When a nurse came to his assistance, the injured man took out from his pocket the key of his tool-drawer and said :—" This is an important key and if this be not found after my death, it will cause great trouble, so please deliver this to the officer in charge." No sooner had he said this than he lost consciousness and expired ! 150. —Perforated wound of the thorax, and left thigh with burns of face and neck :—-S. Yamaguchi, aged 24, one of the crew of the fore torpedo on board the Itsuknshima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was in the fore torpedo- chamber, when a hostile shell exploded against the torpedo-net boom and crushed the ship's side. Some of the shell-fragments that entered the torpedo-chamber inflicted on him a perforated wound in the left side of the chest, also another one in the middle of the left thigh, with burns on the face and neck. He died on the spot. 151. —Perforated wound of thorax with fracture of dorsal vertebrae: —K. Nishimura, aged 33, petty officer on board the Amagi, iu the bombardment of Wei-hai-Avei, while firing on the enemy's vessels in the harbor from the occupied fort of Luchdtsai, on February 3rd, 1895, was wounded by one of the fragments of a bomb discharged from the Saiyuen. Tlie missile entered by his back and found exit in the front of tlie chest thus inflicting a pei'forated wound ; the dorsal vertebne were l)rokeii and the lungs severed. He died on the spot. 152. —Mutilation of thoracic wall and lower limbs with burns of whole body :—^J- luouye, aged 27, crew of the port searchlight of the Matsushima, during the battle of Yellow sea, was engaged in temporarily repairing the electric tiring apparatus on the fort in the fore part of the lower deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the shield of No. 4 side-gun on the port side of the same