157 INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. were reraovetl, ' From the perforating wound of the right hand broken pieces of bone were extracted, a drainage tube introduced and a splint put on. On October 21st, the 'Fig. 10. (a) Fragment wounds of the occipital region and the upper lip had healed, of shell extracted from the right upper nrm ; (b) that The other wounds became filled with granulation. On the from the left forearm ; (c) that from the ball of the 28th of the same month, the patient Avas transferred to left little finger. ^ . i • • the Kure Naval Hospital. At this time, the wound of the shoulder had contracted to the size of 3 cm. in diameter. The perforating wound of the right hand had left only a slender wound with healthy granulation. But with regard to the wounds of the middle of the left fore-arm, the back of the wrist and the right upper arm the granulation was of a dull character presenting an a'dematous condi- tion. So the unhealthy granulation was scraped off, iodoform was sprinkled on and carbolic gauze applied. On November 8th, the wounds of the right upper arm, the left hand and forearm were all cured. The patient complained of a pain at the ball of the left little finger where, on examination, something hard Avas felt. Cutting it open, a square shaped fragment of shell 1 cm. in diameter was obtained (c in figure 10). This was perhaps one that had entered by the wound on the back of the wrist- joint. On November IStl), the incised Avound on the ball of the little finger was cured by the first union. On the 25th of the same month, the wound on the left wrist cicatrized. Now, therefjre, the only wound remaining was that of the right shoulder, and the granulation becoming relaxed, and aiiEemic symptoms accruing, healing seemed to have stopped. A mixture of quinine and iron Avas administered internally, as the general strength of the patient seemed greatly Aveakened. Then the nutrition of the body returned by degrees and the Avound of the shoulder Avas cured, by January 31st, 1895, by forming cicatrix, but owing to the lesion of the deltoid and its adhesion to the skin, the moA'ements of the right shoulder became hindered the function of the right little finger also Avas not perfect. Moreover, the left upper extremity was generally emaciated, so that the grasping power Avas greatly lessened. Thus disabled, he was dismissed from the service for life, and on February 9th loft the hospital, and pensioned according to the regulations. 230.—Lacerated wounds of the right and left hands, the head and blind wound of the left leg :—Y. Kanayama, aged 27, one of gnncrcAv of the Fuso, in the course of the battle of the Yellow sea, Avas resting on the lar- board Ride of the funnel casing, having been ordered to stop firing, Avhcn a liostile