CONTUSED WOUXD. 287 surely have been a large fragment, though certainly not so large nor so heavy as the entire shell. Its force therefore, as compared with the force of the entire shell -vas probably weak, but as it was a fragment with probably an irregular shape and keen edges, it may have destroy- ed the tissues not only by pressure but also by laceration. According- ly, in this instance the tissues around the wound suffered contusion indeed, but it was slight as compared with the 1st instance, and in spite of the size and depth of the wound, a much shorter time was required for recovery. 3.-C0NTUSED WOUND. (1) The contused wounds caused by shell-fragments numbered 97 in all occurring in 59 persons of which interesting cases are as follows : a. —111 this case the injured man was struck by a fragment of shell and received a contused lacerated wound on the outer side of the lower third of the left thigh. On the skin there were 3 lacerated holes, each of the size of one sen copper, the femur being broken at the same time ; besides, cousequent on the explosion of gun powder, he sustained burns over a large part of the body. These injuries proved fatal to the patient on the day foUowiug. (No. 32.8.) b. —In this case, the injured man had the 2nd phalanx of the left index finger crushed by a shell fragment; the soft tissues were greatly damaged, and the bone was smashed. He sustained also burns over a larger part of the body. After admission to the hospital, the injured finger was cut off at the 1st phalangeal joint, and owing to the loss of the finger he was dismissed from service. (No. 24:1.) C.—The injured man had the squamous portion of the left temporal bone broken by a shell-fragment, accompanied by burns of a greater part of the body. At the time of injury he was unconscious, and tliough he was brought to himself after a while, yet the intense pain gave him extreme agony to which he succumbed on the following day. Death was due to concussion of the brain but the chief cause of death was the extensive burns. (No. 324.)