INJURIES OF THK FXCK, 81 from the occupied fort of Lncliotsai, ■when a shell tired fr jm the ship Teng Yuen struck the barrel of the gun in the fort and explodsd, breald ig the gun in two. One of the shell fragments inflicted an abrasion aboitt 1 cm. long on the part im- mediately above the right supercihary ridge. It was closed with adhesive plaster and healed on the Gth of the next month by scabbing. 87. —Abrasion of the face and right shoulderY. Kondo, aged 22, a seaman of the Matsusliima, at the engagement in the Y'ellow sea, was engaged in the conveyance of shells in the fore part of the upper deck, when a 30.5 cm. shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck, breaking some of the ship's timbers and implements. Some of the iron-fragments that were thrown on to the upper deck inflicted abrasions, one on the left cheek and another on the right scapular region. Iodoform was sprin- kled over them and they were then covered with adhssive plaster. The lesions healed by scabbing on tlie 13th day. 88. —Abrasion of the left Uppsr eyelid :—S. Y'^amaguchi, aged 24, a seaman of the Matsusliima, in the fight in the Yellow sea on Sept. 17th, 1894, was standing on the fort of the starboard chasing gun in the fore part of the upper deck, wlien a 30.5 cm. shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck breaking the ship's timbers and implements. The iron fragments flew to the upper deck, and one of them inflicted an abrasion on the left upper eye-lid. The wound was sprinkled with iodoform and covered with adhesive plaster. It healed on October 3rd by scabbing. 89. —Abrasion of the right ear :—N. Yamamoto, aged 19, a seaman of the Hiyei, in the naval engagement in the Y'ellow sea, was on the relieving tackle station in the lower deck stern cabin, when a large shell of the enemy's exploded in the next ward-room shattering the walls and deck. One of the flying pieces of wood, in- flicted an abrasion 2.5 cm. long in the right ear. The lesion was sprinkled with iodoform and covered with adhesive plaster. It healed on tlie 5th day by scabbing. 90. —Contused wound of the face :—-A. Kosa, aged 2(3, one of the torpedo-crew in the fore part of the Matsusliima, in the naval battle of the Yellow sea, was at his station in the fore torpedo-room, when a 30.5 cm. shell burst in the fore part of the lower deck. One of the fragments, that flew into tlie room, struck him and inflicted a slight contused wound, extending from the lower margin of the nasal septum to the median raphe of the upper lip. The wound was sprinkled with iodoform and closed with adhesive plaster. It healed on the 13th day.