84 INJURIES OF THE FA.CE. hostile shell struck the barrel and bm st into pieces. One of the shell fragments gave him a contused wound 1.5 cm, long on tiie chin ; it reached beneath the skin causing slight bleeding, but no injury to the bone. At the same moment, an abrasion of the outer side of the right thigh was inflicted by a wooden splinter ; and the front of his left wrist was bruised so as to interfere with the movements of that joint. The wounds on the chin and thigh, were covered with sublimate gauze ; and the wrist was fixed up. Next day, the patient was removed to the hospital ship Kobe-maru and whilst being treated in that vessel, both wounds nearly healed by cicatrices, the swel- ling and pain of the left wrist also subsided greatly. He was then removed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the wound on the lower jaw was covered with a bloody scab ; the abrasion of the thigh was completely healed, and the swelling on the wrist had nearly subsided, leaving only a patch of ecchymosis which was undergoing absorption. On the '26th of the same month, he left the hospital to resume service. 98.—Contused wound of the face, neck and extremities:—T. Yamanouchi, aged 30, a cook on board the Tsuknshi, in the attack on Zhih island on February 3rd, 1895,was working in the kitchen on the lower deck, when an enemy's shell broke through the upper deck, passed down to the lower, and there pierced the kitchen. Some of iron and wooden pieces thus broken off struck him, inflicting several contused wounds: one 3 cm. long and 1 cm. wide on the upper lip close to the right nasal wing ; one 10 cm. in length and 1 cm. in width, extending from the lower part of the right ear to the neck ; also small wounds were found on the right eye-brow, over the right cheek, on the left index finger, on the outer side of the right thigh, on tiie back of the right elbow ; besides, there were numerous fine pieces of splinters sticking in the exposed parts such as the face, neck and hands. The wounds were cleansed with a carbolic lotion and sublimate gauze was applied ; they progressed favourably without suppura- tion, and healed on the 15th of the same month. 99 —Contused wound of the face and limbs with contusion of the left thigh K- Tabata, aged 25, one of tlie crew of the starboard 9 pounders of the Tsukushi, in the attack on Zhih island on February 3rd, 1895, was standing by his gun on the middle part of the upper deck, when a shell came from the port side and pierced through the lower part of the funnel. Some of the iron pieces thus broken off inflicted several contused wounds, as following :—-one 3 cm. long on the back of the left wrist, one on the back of the left hand, one 5 m.m. long on the back of the right