146 INJUEIES OF THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. aggravatecl, and the wouricl of the left leg did not heal, so the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 23rd of the month. At the time, the outer side of he right elbow joint presented a purplish blue colour, and the joint was swollen all around, so that its movements were attended by pain, but no injury of either bone coiild be found. Again, in front of the middle part of the left leg a superficial granulating wound, 3 cm. long and 2 cm. wide, was present, which did not affect either the periosteum nor the bone. The right elbow joint was dressed with acetate of lead lotion, and the wound of the leg with a carbolic gauze. On the 29th the con- tused wound of the leg formed a cicatrix, and the inflammation of the elbow joint gradually subsided, so that it could now be freely moved. On the 30th, the patient left the hospital to resume service. (E). INJURIES OF THE FOEE-ARM. 212. —Glancing wound of the right fore-arm:—0. Kosono, aged 29, a seaman of the Yoshino, in the course of the engagement of the Yellow sea, was standing by the side of the 12 cm. gun on the larboard side of the quarter deck, when a hostile shell came through the starboard netting and struck the shells of 12 cm. guns placed in rows along both gunwales, causing them to explode. One of the shell- fragments inflicted an abrased wound 1.5 cm. long on the back part of the upper third of the right fore-arm. A corrosive gauze was applied and on the 21st it healed by scabbing. 213. —Contused wound of both fore-arms :—Y. Fukagawa, aged 24, a sea- man on the Saikyo-maru, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing on the fort with the 67 m.m. Q.F. gun, at the stern of the upper deck, when a shell of the enemy hit the aftermost starboard boat-davit and exploded. Some of the shell-fragments in- flicted a contused wound 1 cm. long and 6 m.m. deep on the back part at the middle of the right fore-arm, and another one of 6 m.m. long and 3 m.m. deep on the radial side of the lower end of the left fore-arm. The margins of the wounds were lacerated and attended by slight haemorrhage. Within them no foreign bodies were found. Iodoform and carbolic gauze were applied and in due course the surfaces of the wounds developed granulation, and the lesion on the left fore-arm healed by October 11th, but that of the right fore-arm produced a burrowing of pus beneath the margins of the wound and granulation was dull, so the wound was cut open, the unhealthy granulation scraped off, and carbolic gauze applied. Then the granulation steadily