IS^JURIES OF THE FACE. 89 a few yards where an eueiuy lay in aiubusli, and sustained a wound extending from tlie lower jaw to tbe neck on the right side. He was immediately attended by a surgeon belonging to tlie landing party, and soon returned to the ship. On examina- tion, the wound was found to extend from the chin along the lower border of the horizontal ramus of the lower jaw, to the lower and outer part of the neck. It mea- sured 12 cm. in length and a gap of about 8 cm. in its widest part. It penetrated into the cavity of th9 mouth, and in its passage severed the mylo-hyoid, genio-hyoid and submaxilliary gland completely, and the genio-hyo-glossus partly. The right side of tbe body of the lower jaw was broken into several pieces, a part of it being pulverized. By the laceration of the muscles tbe tongue was drawn back causing uifliculty in speaking and swallowing. The carotid artery, tliongli its sheath was exposed, happily escaped injury. The lingual artery was likewise uninjured. The facial artery was severed but bleeding soon stopped ; there was only capillary hoemorrhage accompanied by a little pain. The bullet seems to have entered through the chin and found its exit in the right side of the neck, crushing the jaw and the skin over it in its course. There Avas another small lacerated aperture about 2 cm. in length somewhat behind the right side of the neclc, tliroiigh which b:)ny fragments seem to have passed out. Tlie loose fragments of bone Avere extracted, tbe surgeons at the same time endeavouring to preserve the periosteum and gums as much as possible. The lacerated mucous mem- brane of the mouth, was pared and the margins sutured. A gargle of boracic acid was ordered. The lacerated portions of the skin were sutured too, as far as union could be expected, and a carbolic gauze was applied ; a fluid diet being ordered. On the 2Gth of the same month, except the union of a small portion of the skin the great- er part had become gangrenous. The sutures were therefore removed, iodoform was dusted on and a wet carbolic dressing applied; the temperature kept at about 38° C, but rose to 39° C. on the evening of the 28th. A moderate dose of quinine was ad- ininistered night and morning, and the dressing was renewed twice a day. On the 29th, the sutures of the mucous membrane of the mouth came off, leaving a gap to which absorbent cotton wool was applied. The discharge of pus from the Avound was copious, and its lacerated portion having sloughed, an offensive odour Avas emitted. On the 31st, the sloughs gradually came off, and granulation developed at the bottom of the Avound. Since the preceding night, the temperature had not exceeded 87.°8 C. This day the patient Avas removed to the hospital ship Kobe-maru. Examined on board the vessel: the greater part of the right half of the body of the lower jaw, from