INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 191 As all the medical staff on board the ship were L'illed at the same moment, he had to be temporarily dressed by his comrades, and was attended to properly by a surgeon from another ship, when the vessel arrived at the rendezvous near Cape Choppeki next morning. On examination there were :—A lacerated wound 5 cm. long reaching the periosteum, running obliquely over the centre of the parietal region; a lacerated wound, one inch in diameter, below the left mastoid process ; a round patch of extravasation 5 cm. in diameter in the left temple ; several wounds, with loss of substance, in the lower third of the right thigh ; a perforating wound in the upper third of the right leg, in which both the tibia and fibula sustained compound fractures, involving the knee-joint; a large, deep wound with loss of substance on the left thigh, just above the patella; the whole face sustained burns and was blackened by powder. The wounds were washed with carbolic lotion followed by antiseptic dressing. The lower limbs were put on splints, and the patient was removed to the transport Genkai-maru. No clianges were noticed that day, but on the 19th, the temperature rose to 37^. 5 C, and the dressings were changed. The same day the transport sailed for home, and on the 20th, traumatic delirium set in and the patient complained of extreme paui, the temperature rose to 89 C, and the right leg became gangrenous, so amputation was performed that night, at the middle third of the right thigh. On the 21st, the temperature was 38^. 4 C, pulse 106. The mind seemed to be clearer than the preceding day, but at about 10 in the forenoon the cerebral symptoms set in, and at 11 the patient died. 289. —Mutilation of both legs and the left forearm :—M. Takenouchi, aged 25, one of the torpedo-crew of the Matsushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was at work in the middle torpedo-room, when a shell entered through the port side and hit him, inflicting mutilated wounds on the left forearm and the left and right legs. PLemorrhago was copious. The wounded man was at once carried to the forward surgery on the upper deck, as the surgery on the lower deck had been destroyed. While he was being attended to, a 30. 5 c m. shell exploded in the forepart of the lower deck and the shock of the explosion killed him. 290. —Mutilation of both legs with blind wound of the right thigh and fracture of the nasal bone:—T. Kaueko, aged 41, quarter-master on the Tsukushi, in the course of the bombardment of the forts on Zhih Island, was standing to starboard of the funnel, when a hostile shell pierced through the lower part of the funnel and carried away his right and left legs at the upper parts of the tibiae,