INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 13? tbe upper arm. The abrased surface of the skin presented a purplish-black colour. Gradually, tbe movements of the injured limb recovered, though an induration persist- ed in the outer end of the pectoralis major and the front part of the deltoid muscle. As the abrased wound had not yet healed entirely, on October 13th, the patient was sent to Sasebo Naval Hospital. At that time, the wound of the upper arm present- ed a round superficial granulating surface of 2 cm. in diameter ; its margins being covered with white newly-developed epithelium, and the borders of the wound still remained swollen and indurated. The shoulder joint could be passively moved from the side of the body to a right angle, but it was impossible to keep it in that position. To the surface of the wound boracic ointment was applied, and to the in- durated part, spirit of camphor. On the 29th, the abrasion of the skin healed, and the swelling greatly abated, yet the movements of the shoulder joint still resisted free motion. By December 14th, the induration of the part had almost disappeared and the movements of the joint at last returned. So on that day, he left the hospital and returned to duty. 1U8.—I. Moriyama, aged 28, a seaman of tiie Saikyo-marn, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing the 57 m.m. Q. F. gun at the stern of the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the after most boat-davit on the starboard side. One of the fragments of shell inflicted an abrasion on the outer side of the middle part of the left upper arm. He complained of a slight pain :—carbolic oil and a bandage were applied. On the 19th, the part healed completely. 199. —Abrasion of the left upper arm with burns of the left hand :— S. Arai, aged 42, a senior nurse of the Yoshiiio, in the battle of the Yellow sea, Avas standing in the surgery of the ward-room, when a hostile shell perforated the starboard nettings on tlie after part and exploded on the quarter deck, thus breaking the deck ; and the fragments of shell fell into the ward-roon]. One of the fragments inflicted an abrasion 3 cm. long on the back part of the lower third of his left upper arm, and the flame of the explosion gas gave him a slight burn in the middle of the back of the left hand. An antiseptic bandage was applied ; and the parts healed on the 21st. 200. —-Contused wound of the right upper arm :—Y. Nakashima, aged 27, a seaman of the Tenryu, at the time of the bombardment of the eastern fort of Liukung Island, February 11th, 1895, was hauling up shells for the forward revolving gun by means of a tackle, and standing by No. 2 hatch in the waist of the upper deck,