KAK'KE. 464 caused by the introduction of the specific virus, and they quote this as evidence for its infectious character. But, if we examine the interest- ing reports furnished by M. M. Grail, Paree, and Vincent, it will seem proper to attribute the origin of the kak'ke prevalence among the Annamese settlers of 1891, and the Japanese of 1892, alike to the quality of food, and not to infectious virus or miasmatic poison. (See Nos. 2, 3, and 4 of the 3rd volume of Archives de Medecine Navale et Coloniale). When the Annamese settlers, 758 in all, started from their home in February, they were all very healthy. After a voynge of about a month, they arrived in Orphelinat island, when it was found that kak'ke made its appearance. After landing, the number of patients began to increase. Thereupon, they judged the island to be unhealthy and removed part of the settlers to Freycinet island. On the latter island, the disease raged with still greater force, so much so that the settlers had again to be removed to Kautio, where it con- tinued to rage as ever ; the total number of the patients from the first outbreak to that time reaching to several hundreds, of whom 70 suc- cumbed to the disease. As for their food, it was at first one kilogramme of rice and 200 grammes of salt fish; the fish was putres- cent and almost unfit for use ; but, owing to the lack of other food was used until the 25th of April when in compliance with the advice of the doctors, all that remained was thrown into the sea. The new rations appointed from that time were one kilogramme of rice, 200 grammes of meat, 100 grammes of vegetables ; but of the meat and vegetables, they could not obtain a proper supply. At the end of July, work-houses for the emigrants were completed, and for the first time, the immigrants were able to buy their own food with wages they had earned. By the month of August, kak'ke is said to have entirely disappeared. Next, the settlers from Japan numbering 600, started in January, and arrived in New Caledonia after a voyage of 18 days,