CONTUSED WOUND. 300 lacerated Avoinids on the head, face, trunk and limbs, and also hums all over the body. (No. 29.) 2nd example.—A man who was struck by shell fragments as well as splinters sustained compound fracture of the face and base of cranium, and a large contused lacerated wound attended with fractures of the lower and upper limbs. The man was killed on the spot. (No. 54.) 3rd example.—Was a large contused lacerated wound in the middle of the right thigh, by the same cause as above. The soft tissues were very much severed, and the femur was smashed to pieces, besides, serious contused lacerated wounds were inflicted on the right arm and right side of the chest. The shock killed him instantly. 4th example.—Was a large contused lacerated wound accompanied with fracture at the middle of the right femur by the same cause as the last, and a perforated wound of the abdomen. The injured man died on the spot. (No. 174.) 5th example.—Fi-om the same cause as the last, a contused lacerated wound 5 cm. long reaching the pericranium in the vertex, a small sized contused wound as deep as the above, below the left mastoid process of the occiput, a large contused lacerated wound which smashed the tibia and fibula at the upper third of the right leg, several wounds with loss of substance at the lower third of the right thigh, and a deep contused wound with loss of substance just above the left patella were received ; and in addition to these, there was a contusion on the left temporal region, and burns all over the face. In a few days the injured man began to show signs of traumatic delirium, his mind was confused and he was restless, his temperature rose to 39° C, the right leg became gangrenous from stoppage of circulation, so amputation was performed at the lower part of the thigh. The delirium continued as before, and the patient died on the following day, that is, the fourth day after the injury. (No. 288.) These are the cases of wliich the real causes could not be ascer- tained as they occurred in the surgery of the Hiyei, where a 30.5 cm. shell exploded, breaking the iron-uiast and sina,shing the tables and various surgical instruments, and drove the various fragments on all sides, so that it was practically impossible to ascertain which of these caused each of the above stated cases. The number of the wounds of this category is 20 occurring in 5 persons, of which 4 persons were