117 IXJURIES OF THE ABDOMIXAL AXD LUMBAR EEGIOXS. the starboard side in the rear of tlie upper deck. On examination, there was an abrasion in front of the right anterior superior iUac spine bat no injury to the abdominal viscerffi. Carbolic dressing was applied. On the 30th of the same month the abrasion healed by scabbing. 157. —Contusion of right lumbar region :—K. Matsnnaga, aged 24, crew of No. 9 gun of the Hiyei, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was firing on the fort of the gnn at the stern, when a hostile shell pierced through the upper part of the port on the starboard side of the stern. From the splinters of wood he sustained contusion on the upper part of the crest of the right ilium. Spirit of camplior was applied and the wound Avas healed on the 19th of the same mouth. 158. —Contusion of left lumbar region:—S. Nagaoka, aged 34, petty ofacer on board the Hiyei, was handling the rudder by the wheel on the quarter-deck, in the battle of the Yellow sea, when an enormous shell exploded in the ward-room at the rear of the lower deck. He was thrown down, and in falling sustained small contused wounds over the left lumbar and sacral regions. Iodoform was sprinkled and adhesive plaster applied. On the 21st following, the wounds were healed. 159. —Lacerated wound of the right lumbar region Ishii, aged 24, Assistant Navigating Officer of the Matsushima, daring the bombardment of the eastern fort of Lieukang Island, on February 7th, 1895, was engaged in measuring distances on the fore bridge ; when a hostile shell flying over the bridge inflicted a lacerated wound midway between the right iliac crest and the costal arch, 15 cm. in length and 9 cm. in Avidth. The skin, subcutaneous tissue and saperficial layer of the mnscles were scraped away ; exposing the muscles at the bottom of the wound ; the margins were of an irregular shape and from the posterior half of the upper margin hung a flap G cm. long and 5 cm. wide ; while all around the Avound were the black marks of burnt powder. The bleeding and pain were not severe ; no injury of the abdominal visceras was to be seen. The wound was cleansed with carbolic lotion ; the flap arranged to cover the wound and sublimate gauze applied. On the 8th, he was transferred to the hospital-ship Kobe-maru. In a few days, the wound suppurated; the flap and margins of the wound presented gangrenous conditions, which had to be scraped off. On the 14th, granulation gradually developed? and the wound became even and clean. On the 20th, he was admitted to the Saseljo Naval Hospital. At the time, an oval granulating wound was present on the right lumbar region extending, above, one inch below the costal arch ; below, about three and a half inches above the