INJUEIES OF THE LOWER EXTKEMITT. 173 ]ation, so that the drainage-tube was replaced Ly gauze. Progress continued favo- rabJe, and on April the 15tli, the exit wound on the inner side of the thigh was closed by scabbing, followed by the cicatrization of the entrance wound on the outer side on the 24th. However, difficulty was experienced in walking on account of imperfect flexion of the knee joint. On May the 3rd, the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital, Avhere by strict enforcement of bathing, shampooing, and active movements of the injured limb, the deranged action of the knee joint was gradually restored, so that on the 9th, he was able to flex the knee completely, and on the 17th, he returned to the service perfectly recovered. 258. —Compound fracture of the right thigh with contused wound of the chest and arm :—Y. Nihongi, aged 22, a stoker of the Hiyei, during the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was working on No. 5 pump in front of the accountants' office, in the 4th division of the lower deck, when an enormous shell of the enemy exploded in the ward-room of the otli division ; and by some of the driving shell-fragments, he received a compound fracture in the middle of the right thigh, where the soft tissues were utterly mutilated and the femoral artery torn off, the femur smashed ; and severe contused wounds on the right arm and the right side of the chest were sustained. He died on the spot owing to the copious hn?mor- rhage and shock. 259. —Fracture of the right thigh with abrasion of the left fore- arm :—I. Iwamoto, aged 23, one of gun-crew of the Itsukushima, during the battle of the Yellow sea, was passing behind the bow-gun in the fore part of the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded, piercing through the port netting of the fore part; he Avas struck by some of the shell-fragments on the right thigh at the juncture of the middle and lower thirds, and received a blind wound rumiing from its inner and ront aspect to the outer and lower part of the limb. The femur was broken oblique- ly at that part. Searching for foreign body a shell-fragment was recognised con- cealed under the skin over the blind end of the wound. The skin was cut open and an irregular triangular fragment of shell covered with linen was extracted. The shell-fragment weighed 18 grammes (See t:gure 13). And in the upper part of the outer side of the left forearm was found air abrased wound of the size of a 5 l iti copper ; both wounds were directly treated antiseptically, and the fracture of the femur fixed with Listen's long outside splint and the patient was, on the 21st, conveyed to the Hospital of Sasebo Admiralty. At this time, the wound of the left