76 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. on the lOfcli, it rose to 39°C. and the patient became unconscious : the eyes were fixed obliquely, the pupils unequal, the right small and the left large ; the pulse grew soft and feeble counting 148 ; respirations stertorous, with frequent hiccoughs, and num- bering 50 per minute. At 4.15 p.m. on the 11th, he died of coma. (See the illustra- tion appended.) 60. —K. Kimura, aged 21, signalman of the Fuso, during the battle of the Yellow sea, was blowing a bugle signal, standing by the left side of the funnel casing, when a shell pierced through the lower part of the funnel, one of its pieces penetrating into the cranial base through the left side of the nape. The brain being thus smashed, he died instantaneously. 61. —K. Nakagawa, aged 27, a cook of the Hiyei. At the buttle of the Yellow sea, he was lifting up shells at the entrance of the machine-gun magazine, below the ward-room of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. shell exploded in the room and broke the deck. One of the fragments of the shell, in falling, inflicted a penetrating wound on his forehead. He became semicoijscious and complained of a burning sense in his back. He iinally expired from coma forty minutes after the injury. 62. —T. Matsunaga, aged 25, seaman of the Akagi. In the engagement of the Yellow sea, he was at work, as a pumper, turning the Downton pump in the fore part of the upper deck, when one of the fragments of a hostile shell that flew in from the starboard side gave him a penetrating wound at the right temporal region ; the fragment remaining in the brain, he died on the spot. 68.—S. Watanabe, aged 27, seaman of the Akagi, in the naval tight of the Yellow sea, was, as one of the fire-brigade, standing in the fore part of the lower deck, when a shell exploded on the same deck, and one of the fragments, inflicted a penetrating wound of the skull at the left parietal region. The fragment being lodged in the brain, death was instantaneous. 64.—K. Kawamura, aged 19, a seaman of the Tenryu. On January 30th, 1895, while he was firing from the captured fort of Luchotsai at Wei-hai-wei, a shell struck against the barrel of the gun and broke it in two, the shell exploding at the same moment. A fragment of the shell inflicted a penetrating wound of the left temporal region. The wound in the soft part was of an irregular form, 4.5 cm. in its longest diameter ; the cranium was broken into several pieces, some of which were pressed down into the cranial cavity and the brain thereby severed. Death was instantaneous.