INJURIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. 113 board fort of the upper waist-deck, when a hostile sliell burst against an iron pillar on the said deck, some of the shell fragments and broken iron pieces, wounding him on the left side of the chest and the left ankle joint. On examination, the 5th and Gth ribs along the left axillary line were found to be broken, the wound penetrating into the thoracic cavity and bleeding profusely. An iron piece penetrated through the outer side of the left ankle into the joint, making a blind wound; moreover, another piece was inserted in the back of the middle of the left leg. The injured man was pale, with a very weak and intermittent pulse, and complained of acute pain in the chest. The foreign body in the wound of the ankle was extrasted ; botli wounds were antiseptically dressed, and the patient was kept in strict rest. On the 18tli, the tem- perature indicated 38^ C. An accumulation of blood in the pleural cavity was evacuated and the cavity examined, but no foreign body could be found. The lungs escaped injury, and there was }io hemoptysis. The patient however succumbed from collapse at 8 a.m. 144,—Penetrating wound of the chest with blind wound of left thigh: —U. Tsushimi, aged 35, gunner to No. 6 Hotchkiss gun of the Akitsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, sustained a penetrating wound on the back, and a blind one on the tliigli from the fragments of a shell which exploded against the shield of starboard No. 5 side-gun on the waist deck. On examination, a contused wound, 5 cm. long and 2.5 cm. wide, was found running from the right side of the Gth dorsal spinous process to the left and upward, reaching deep into the thoracic cavity; break- ing in its course a rib in the infra-scapular region. On breathing or moving his body, an intense pain was felt in the left hypochondriac region, and respiration was em- barrassed. The margin of the wound gave a sensation as if a mass of snow was being pressed on it; blood mixed with air-bubbles escaped from the wound, indicating injury of the lung. On the upper part of the outer side of the left thigh a vertical lacerated wound 3 cm. deep was found and a fragment of shell inserted in it was extracted. The wounds were antiseptically treated, and the patient kept at strict rest; he could not sleep that night for the constant anguish over the proecordial region as well as the actual pain in the chest. On the 18th, the temperature indicated 38^0., and coughing was frequent; a dose of morphine given; urine withdrawn by catheter. On the 19th, the patient was taken on board a transport, and sent to Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At the time, coughing was frequent, with bloody expectoration and acute pain in the left side of chest; there was also a subcutaneous emphysema, extending from the left scapular region to the axilla, which, on percussion, was fou n