68 INJUEIES OF '['HE HEAD. 33. —K. Miyamoto, aged 20, one of the gun crew of the Hiyei: In the battle of 29. - Lacerated wounds in several parts of the body with burns of whole body :—K. Danno, petty officer of tlie Hiyei, aged 30 years. In the same battle of Yellow sea, he was acting as a carrier to bring the wounded on the upper deck to the surgery on the lower deck. While he was standing in the room a 30.5 cm. shell pierced through the starboard side of the stern and exploded there. He received serious lacerated wounds ail over the head, face, trunk and limbs, and was burnt almost all over the body. 2.-INJURIES OF THE HEAD. (A). INJUEIES OF THE SCALP. 30. —Abrasion of the scalp :—U. Nishiya, aged 24, one of the torpedo-crew of the Itsukushima. On September 17th, 1894, he was on duty in the fore torpedo- chamber of the vessel, in the battle of the Yellow sea, when a shell exploded against the boom of the starboard torpedo-net; the fragments pierced through the ship's side into the chamber, one of wliich gave liim an abrasion 1 cm. long at the upper part of the right frontal eminence. Dry corrosive gauze was applied to the abrasion. On the 21st of the same month, he was sent to Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission the lesion was almost dry, and in a short time healed under scabbing. He left the hospital on October 1st to resume service. 31. —Y. Yamamoto, aged 21, one of the Hotchkiss gun crew on the port side of the Hashidate. In the engagement of the Yellow sea, he was on the battery of the said gun in the fore part of the upper deck, when a shell burst in the turret of the bow -gun : one of the fragments made an abrasion 1.5 cm. long, at a point 3 cm. behind the right mastoid process of the occiput. Dry corrosive gauze was applied and the wound healed by scabbing within a few days. 32. —M. Ogawa, aged 25, Sub-Lieutenant of the Hiyei. In the battle of the Yellow sea, he was passing the fourth quarter of the starboard side on the lower deck to superintend the fire brigade, when a 30.5 cm. shell exploded in the ward-room, in the fifth quarter. Some of the fragments inflicted a small abrasion, below the occipital protuberance, and several others, which were dotted like scattered grains, on the left side of the face and the back of the left hand. The wounds soon healed up under cori-osive gauze.