INJURIES OF THE FACE. 98 (C) INJURIES OF THE EYE. 107.—Contusion of both eyes with contused wound of the left knee and abrasion of the chest and lower limbs :—S. Kaga,, aged 2i, a man to No. i Q. F.-gnn of the Akagi. In the battle of the Yellow sea on September 17th, 1894, he was filing the No. 1 Q. E.-gnn on the starboard side of the bridge, when a 15 cm. ? sliell came from the stern and passed away about a foot in front of his eyes, and burst against the support of the gun. Some fragments of the shell hitting him, he re- ceived abrasions over the outer part of the left clavicle, and on the lower limbs, and a lacerated wound on the left knee ; at the same time, both eyes lost their sight. On examination there was found congestion of the conjunctivEE of both eyes attended Avith pain. This was especially the' case with the right eye, but no injury to the lids and balls could be discovered. The wound of the left knee was a lacerated one in a crescent form 5 cm. long running straight downward from just above the patella ; it reached to the periosteum yet without causing attrition of the membrane or injury of the bone. Other wounds were found in the following parts—two small abrasions just below the last wound in front of the left leg ; an oval shaped abrasion 6 cm. in diameter on the outer side of the right thigh ; four small abrasions in front of the middle part of the right leg. To the eyes, a compress of boracic lotion was applied and antiseptic dressings to the other wounds. On the 19th he was removed on board a transport and admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At the time, the margins of the wound at the knee were slightly inflamed, attended by a little discharge, In the case of the other wounds, as there was no suppuration, they dried up but the conjunctiv£e in both eyes were inflamed, the cornea of the right eye became turbid, and the lenses of both eyes cloudy, and vision was completely lost so that the light could not be distinguished from the dark. As the pains in both eyes were intense, atropine was dropped and a cold compress of boracic lotion was applied.. On the 26th, the irritative symptoms of the eyes abated so that they could now be minutely examined : the right eye was congested all over, the cornea slightly dimmed with ciliary conges- tion, the iris presented a serrated appearance owing to the posterior synechia at the upper part of the free margin. The lens was partly dislocated towards the nasal side and had became somewhat turbid, presenting a slightly grayish colour. The sight was found scarcely enough to perceive the movement of fingers in front of the eye. With the left eye, the dilation of the pupil was the only abnormality that could be recognized with the naked-eye ; but with the ophthalmoscope detachment of the