PREVENTION OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 528 Southern Sea, where Formosa and islands in the vicinity ai'e a haunt of malarial fever, it was necessary to take preventive measures, and therefore on the day previous to our fleet's approach to the Pescadores, the Flagship gave a signal to all ships under command that quinine should be used as a preventive of the fever. Under the order, every ship administered a uniform dose of the drug—that is, 0.25 gramme once a day—to every one. This was likewise done when the fleet was approaching Formosa. The routine of administering quinine was as follows : for a day previous to a ship's arrival at a malarial district and a week after, or during the time when she had to lie at anchor within one mile from the shore, or when her members were to land, or during the wet and rainy season. Whether or not the use of quinine had any eftect, is not well ascertained, but from the reports furnished by all surgeons belonging to the fleet, we will now quote what we consider to be interesting and instructive. (1) Among the natives of Longreacli on the southern coast of Korea, where our Chief Naval Station in the front was established, intermittent fever (especially quartan) prevails, and some of our men and coolies were affected with it, while they were encamping there. Hereupon, sulphate of quinine was daily given to every man in the service for a month, with the favorable result of its entire cessation among our men. (By Surgeon Kuwabara belonging to the Station). (2) The port of Chemulpo, Korea, has been called a malarial district. For a month, from the end of May, 1894, to the end of the next month, our ship was at anchor in the port, and at that time, the disease having broken out among the inhabitants of the port, naembers of our ship were necessarily given a dose of quinine previous to landing, and not a person was attacked with the disease. (By Tomimatsu, Surgeon of the Yamato.) (3) The mouth of the Tamsui Eiver, Formosa, is a very unhealthy district, and abounds in malarial diseases. However, our ship lay at anchor at this place in summer for a long time, without having any one of our members attacked with the disease, owing to the use of quinine as a preventive. (By Okamoto, Surgeon of the Oshima.) (4) During our ship's expedition to the coasts of Korea and China, we had