217 BURNS there existed three perforations on the posterior part of the right memhrane, and one on the anterior part of the left. The lueinbranes Avere thickened and opaque, on exarahmtion by watcli, the hearing proved to have been reduced to ^^-g- (riglit) and (left). Antiseptic lotion and administration of iodide of potash were re- sorted to. Later on, the discharge of the ears entirely ceased, but the perforations of tlie membranes remained unhealed, the duluess of hearing and somewhat idiotic state of the mind were left. Thus disabled for service, he was on April IStli discharged from service and granted a pension according to the regulation. 347. —Burns of the fac9, neck and hands1). Matsudaira, aged 3G, a petty officer of the Yosliino, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was working at the rear of the upper deck, Avhen a hostile shell pierced the starboard netting, and exploded against the two 12 cm. shells placed along the netting ; as a result, lie received biirns of the second degree over the whole face (especially the riglit half, lips and ear-lobes) the front of the neck, the anterior aspect of the left wrist and palm, and the right wrist to the back of the hand and fingers. Tlie liair of the scalp was signed, the skin congested and swollen, or blistered. Dressings of oiled lint were applied, and he was on the 23rd, taken on board a transport and on the 26th admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time of admission, most of the burns exposed congested true skin discliarging pus. The burns were gradually healing, when on the 80th, he was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. At the time, most of the burns were covered with new epidermis, though some parts were ulcerated, yet the discharge was very slight. On November 5th, the burns were healed Avithout leaving cicatrix, and he returned to service. 348. -Burns of the face, upper arms and shoulder :—S. Niibara, aged 22, a member of the magazine party of the Matsushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was lifting ammunition at the fore magazine, when a hostile shell burst against the shield of No. 4 port side-gun in the fore part of tlie lower deck, at the same instant, setting on fire all the ammunition stored for the side-guns. By the flame of explosion he sustained burns of the 1st degree on the face, and those of the 2nd degree on the shoulders and upper arms. Tlie burns were simply dressed on board the ship and he Avas admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 2()th. On admission, the face Avas blackened by powder, the hair singed. The parts extending from the shoulders to the anterior and external parts of tlie right and left arms, sustained burns of the 2nd degree, the epidermis being charred Avith blisters