BUKNS AXD SCALDS. 378 tendons of the fingers, this l)eing caused by a deep cii-atiix ou the l)ac'k of the hand ; and one (No. 19) was deprived of the greater part of both ear-lobes, large and con- spicuous cicatrices being left on the npper and lower limbs. Another case (No. 9) resulted in a marked keloid cicatrix on each burned surface, so that the lingers became crooked, tlie neck bent, and tlie inontli distorted. The patient was pitiably disfigured. Complications of the burns. Traumatic delirium occuri'cd in two patients, bron- chial catarrh in 5 or 0, inflammations of auditory canal and conjunctiva, existed in nearly all cases of burns on the head and face, though tlieir exact number was uncer- tain, intestinal ulcerations and nephritis were unknown. Termination of the burns. Witii the patients who died in the liosiutal, the con- ditions before death were nearly always the same :—Temperature abru[)tly rising to 39° or more ; thirst intense ; pulse accelerated ; spirits roused ; delirium, cries, or singing ; withal, the mind firm without derangement in speaking, and answers correct. As death approached, the mind seemed to be as it were stunned, and the dying became mute, as in the case of sudden death : no response was given either to call or irrita- tion ; heart action grew fVant, pulse impalpable, inspirations being shallow, and expirations prolonged, and then first the heart ceased to beat, followed by cessation of breathing, and death ; thus change of symptoms was exceedingly rapid. There is indeed no wound that is not attended with i)ain, but no injury seems to be so intensely painful as a barn. Many of the patients cried and groaned throughout the night. When the time came for changing the dressings, the pain felt seemed to be so great that one could scarcely bear to see it. In one case the burned areas were so extensive that it I'eij^uired 3 or 4. hours to dress them all. It was a matter of great difficulty, e\'en to dress the wounds bit by bit. One or two parts were dressed at a time, after which dressing m.iterials were put on thickly, so that one dressing might last for as long as possible ; but unfortunately it was the hot season, and there was always the danger of maggots being bred in the wounds if left too long without fresh dressing. Hhell-woands are cruel but a burn is the most cruel wound of all. We can not think of the scenes in tlie hospital without shuddering. (15) '11 lere Avere (S cases of scalds, which were nil caused In' the steam and boiling water in Xo. [) torpedo lioat, when its holier w;ts destroyed by a hostile shell. Of these (S persons. 4 were killed on the spot, one died durino- the (hiy, and one more on the next day, their