44 THE BA'I'TLIi OF YALCT. THE KILLED AllE AS FOLLOWS. Xamks. Offices, Plaoks Whkkk Thky Wkric Namk-, of Wol-M)-. < HARAC'I Kns (IF W'orNDS. II. SakaTTioto. Cai)tain Tbe bridge Seveiunce of tlie head. ^Mutilation of heiid, except face and the base of the cranimn. T. Hasliii^iu'lii. 'S] irlsliipnian Fore-top Perforated wound, of The lunib;u- vertebrte and pel- tlie lumbar region vis fractured; the spinal with fracture of ver- cord and aorta ruptured ; tebrae. the intestines protruding. M. Hiiinauii. »J iDiiiu' cliicf carptiitri" Lowoi- det:k Penetrated wound of Tlie right temporal region tite crauimu; rup- perforated, and intestines ture of the abdomi- and bladder coming out of nal region. the lower abdomiual region. K. Yasiiokii, Jn7iior cliief black-?initli Smasliine of tlie liejul. Tlie head entirely smashed. leaving a part of occiput and lower jaw. 33. y] iyamoto. The bridf^e Severauoe of both Both thighs severed connect- tliiglis. ed with legs onlv' hy small flaps of skin. S, Wataiiiib(j. cla'^T '^t^ainaii Lower deck Perforation of ('rauinm Left parietal bone perforated and a shell lodged in ci"ani- T. Matsnnati;a. „ „ ., Upper deck ., „ UU). Kight temporal boue perforated and a shell lodged in brain. M. TJmabnolii. 2nd cla^s carpentei" Lower det^k Perforated wouml of Tlie lumbar region being pierc- the luriibar region ed, lumbar vertebras frac- with fracture of the tured .and many perforateil vertebrae. wounds found on the back. IC. Toniiiiii.^a.. 2inT class cook Upper deck Severance of tlie lieail. Tlie upper half of the bead smashed, leaving the lower half of the occiput at level with the b.'use of nose. S. Kusuki. 3rd class seaman Tlie bridge Severance of the right The right thigh severed at the thigh and the riglit right si le of pelvis and femo- side of pelvis. ral vessels tern. M. Obama. 4tli class seaman Upper ileck Perforated wound of Pierced from the middle of the cranium. occiput to tJie middle of fore- head. (Only mnrtn] wound or Avounds! of paoli =!hitod Iioro.) For the conveyance of the woancled, hands were chiefly reli(;(l iipuii, for in a .small ship like this, it was only descending a stair-case of 8 shakn'' at 20 " ken from the remotest part of the bow, that the snrgery could Ix' reached. So it was far better to have the task done promptly with hands, tlian to waste time over providing apparatus. Besides, the use of stretcliers in narrow places during tlio time of action is cumbersome. However, to convey the wounded from the fore part of the lower declc to the surgery at the rear, they had hotJi to ascend and descend the stairs, as owing to the presence of the engine room in tljc waist, tliey had fii-st to come to the upper deck from the fore part of tlie lower deck and then again to tlie after part of