106 INJURIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. parts of the face aud trunk. The carotid artery escaped injury, yet a copions bleed- ing from the wound of the neck caused enfeeblement of the pulse, hut the mind re- mained clear without any sign of shock. The bleeding vessels were ligatured at once, an antiseptic dressing was applied, and a stimulant given internally. The tempera- ture rose high ; nausea, vomiting and drowsiness ensued, and at length he succumbed from coma at 2.25 a.m. on the 19th. 129. —Lacerated wounds of the neck, abdomen and lower limb with extensive burns of the body :—S. Muroyu, aged 20, one of the crew of No. 4 gun of the Hiyei. While he Avas firing the gun at the battle of the Yellow sea, on Septem- ber 17th, 1894, a shell came over the netting of the starboard waist, and burst against the stanchion of the port booms ; the fragments wounded him on the neck, abdomen and lower limbs, the neck was deeply lacerated, the larynx aud the carotid vessels on both sides Avere mutilated, the lower jaw smashed, and the abdomen and lower limbs sustained several lacerated wounds. To make the matters worse, some of the fragments driven about ignited the powder-case carried by another member of the same gun crew. The fire thus caused caught the garment of the injured and inflict- ed burns over the greater part of the body so that he died on the spot. 5.-INJURIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. (A) INJURIES OF THE CHEST WALL. 130. —Contusion of the chest with burns of the face:—J- Tauaka, aged 19, a bandman on board the flagship Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, September 17th, 1894, was acting as bearer of the wounded. He was passing the tarboard side in the fore part of the upper deck, Avhen an enormous ^shell burst against the shield of the No. 4 port gun in the fore part of the lower deck, at the same time igniting the ammunition provided for the use of the side gun. One of the fragments' of shell hit him on the upper part of the sternum, and inflicted burns of the second degree on the left side of the lower jaw by the explosion flame. A tem- porary treatment was given on board the ship, and on the 20th, he was admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital; from that time the wounds progressed favourably, and the patient recovered on the 26th. 131. —Contusion of the right side of chest:—Y. Murao, aged 20, one of the crew of the fore revolving gun of the Katsuragi, at the time of the bombardment of the eastern forts of Liukuug Island, on February 11th, 1895. He had just turned