MALARIAL FEVER. 440 of Korea, tlie man began, on September 12th, 1894 to feel chilliness and headache. He thought it a mere cold and did not ask for medical help. Then every evening about 6 o'clock, chilliness, headache, with lassitude of limb set in, followed- by rise of temperature and sweating, all of which disappeared in the morning, with a slight headache re- maining. On the night of the 17th, the symptoms became aggravated and his sleep was disturbed. On the following morning, he applied for medical advice for the first time. He was found to have an ex- cellent constitution and pretty good nutrition; the pulse was full, and counted 86 per minute; temperature 102.°4 F,; thirst and loss of appetite; the abdomen was somewhat distended but no gurgling nor tenderness, stools twice a day; respirations 20 per minute; no cough nor expectoration, and no abnormal physical signs in the chest. The hepatic and splenic arete presented no change; during the paroxysm, there was severe chilliness and headache; the face turned pale with general shivering; followed by fever and perspiration. The case was diagnosed as a quotidian fever. He was ordered to take rest, and 1.5 grammes of quinine was administered at 2 o'clock in the afternoon. From that time, the temperature kept at normal during the forenoon, but every evening it rose to 102° F., and though the shivering of the paroxysm also abated, yet perspiration was as profuse as ever and wetted his night-shirt. On the 20th, the dose of quinine was increas- ed to 2.5 grammes a day. In consequence of this, the paroxysms abated, and the temperature indicated 101° F. After this, all the symptoms became favorable, but the tongue was furred, the appetite decreased, and the body became weak. A stomachic mixture was therefore administered, and the cpiinine was reduced to 2 grammes, after which the paroxysms were lessened, day by day, and there was a return of appetite and bodily strength. So on the 6th of October he was ordered to resume light work, and the quinine was again reduced