INJURIES OF THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. 122 and the granulation surface became contracted; the temperature rose sUghtly daring the night. On the 27th, the wound of tlie forearm cicatrized ; that of the chest developed granulation so that the part became clean and contracted, and no longer discharged sloughed hepatic substance ; a slight discharge of pus and bile, however still continued. On the 2nd of November, the chest wound still discharged bile, though all the other conditions were favourable. The friction sound completely disappeared, but the dulness persisted over the infra-scapular region. On the 15tli, the tempera- ture suddenly rose to 89° C; on examining the wound of the chest a dead piece of bone the size of a pea and a slough of liver, plugging the orifice and preventing the escape of pus, were observed. These were removed and 15 gramme of a greenish pus evacuated. The next morning the temperature fell to normal, and the discharge ceased gradnally. The wound of the head contracted to the size of a 6 rin copper and tiie pus discharge entirely ceased. On the 2nd of December, the wound of the leg was completely healed, and that of the head had contracted to the size of a bean, while that of the chest reached to a depth of 3 cm.; but the discharge was nearly stopped and granula- lion was healthy. On the 20th, the chest woiuid formed a cicatrix, and the head Avound healed by scabbing on January 7th, 1895. On the 11th, he had so completely recovered as to be able to rejoin the ship. (See the illustration.) 162.—Penetrating wound of the left side of chest and abdomen with perforated wound of left arm :—S. Ito, aged 21, seaman of the Saikyo-maru, in the battle of the Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1894, was firing the 57 m.m. Q.F. gun in the rear of the uppermost deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the aftermost boat davit on the starboard quarter : some of the fragments wounded the left side of his chest and left arm. On examination, a lacerated wound 3 cm, long was found over the 8th rib on the left axillary line ; the margins were ragged and widely open ; the wound took a course forward and downward, breaking the 10th rib, and penetrated into the thoracic cavity. Another perforating wound was seen just above the left elbow joint passing from the outer side of the upper arm to its inner side. The opening of the wound on the outer side was of an irregular form, measuring 6 cm. vertically, and 4 cm. laterally ; while the exit on the inner side was 2.7 cm. long, and opened irregularly ; but the humerus was intact, and no heavy bleeding occurred, as the brachial artery had escaped injury. After antiseptic dressing, the man was oi-dered to have strict rest. On the 18th, pain was felt in the lower part of the abdo- men, and the temperature rose to 38° C. The dressing was changed, and a solution of