133 IXJUEIES Oi' THE UPPER EXTREMITY. side just behuid the port "f the saiil gnu, crnshiug the wooden plunks andiron- plating. Soinu of the iron pieces tlms broken, inflicted wounds on the face, right scapula and arm. On examination, there was a lacerated wound of 3 cm. running laterally above the right eyebrow, and a zigzag shaped lacerated wound, 3 cm. in length, running obliquely on the right cheek. These were both so shallow that only the skhi was injured. Another lacerated wound shaped and extending for 4 cm. over the spine of the right scapula, was found reaching down to the surface of the bone, which was fractured in a line running outward fron^ the point just below the spine of scapula. .Another lacerated wound also existed on the posterior part on the upper tliird of the right arm. The wound measured 4.5 cm.; the entrance was turned out in a remarkable maimer exposing the muscles in the shape of a crater. The canal of the wound ran upward and inward for about 12 cm. and reached to the bone, producing an oblique fracture of the surgical neck of the hu- merus ; the broken ends kept their normal position without being displaced. Probably the iron fragment entered by the slioulder and passed out by the upper arm. An antiseptic dressing was applied, and the upper limb fixed with a splint : the patient was taken on board a transport on the 19th and admitted on the 21st to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the wounds of the upper arm and shoulder being cut open, the broken pieces of bone were extracted. After irrigation of the wound with carbolic lotion, a drainage tube was inserted. On the 24th, though the wounds on the face formed union by granulation, the wounds on the arm and shoulder were discharging abundantly; the margins were inflamed, presenthig a dark reddish colour ; the temperature indicated 38"' C. On October 3rd ; the marginal inflammation of the wounds of arm and shoulder had disappeared, with diminution of discharge, and the temperature had fallen to normal from the 1st of October. To the right upper limb, a fenestrated plaster of Paris bandage was applied. From that time, the wounds progressed without any striking changes. By the beginning of December, the fracture of the upper arm produced a callus and the canal wound at last became narrower ; hence the plaster of Paris bandage wae removed. On January 30th, 1895, a cicatrix formed over the wound of the scapula, while that of the upper arm still retained a sinus which discharged more or less pus. On February 27th, the temperature suddenly rose to 40^ C. attended by nausea and eadache. The bandage was removed, and the wound was examined, when a largs quantity of pus escaped from the sinus of the upper arm, yet the granula-