EXTERIC FEVER. 4-24 assert that tli8 disease was iutroducecl into the ship through the medium of the lauding party. And also, search was made to ascertain if the infection had any re- lation, with coming into contact with the patients, or with the condition of ventilation, yet nothing to that effect could be discovered. Shall we then assume that the disease was brought on board the ship by the wind from the land where malarial fever prevails as an endemic, this is not probable. For, in fact, this ship, having the duties of reconnoitering and defence from the beginning in Formosan sea, made frequent voyages along the coast of Formosa and the Pescadores, consequently she was moved about more than other ships in the same quarters. But if we consider that no cases of disease occurred at all on board many other Avarships and vessels which were harbouring in the same ports, it is certain that the disease did not have its source in the wind. In fact in the Yoshino and Akitsushima, there occurred at one time several cases of remittent fever, but they Avere directly extirpated. As has been said above, not only was the origin of the epidemic a mystery, but all preventive sanitary measures proving inefficacious, the Captain of the ship convened the chief surgeons of the other ships to hold a consulatiou on the disease, and accordingly Surgeons Terajima and Okamoto, Assistant-surgeon Ishizuka met in the presence of the Captain. After deliberate consultation, we came to the conclusion that the present epidemic was a complication of intermittent and enteric fever. This conclusion was arrived at cliiefly on the ground that one of the three patients who had been sent back by the Saikyo-maru to the Yokosuka Naval Hospital was returned as enteric fever and two having died on the Avay voyage and the nature of the fever was such as shown in the No. 5 temperature chart. This conclusion was presented to the Captain attended with the following memorial in the names of Surgeons Terajima and Okamoto. " Sir :—Having been asked to hold a consulation about the preventive measures against the fever in your ship, we have the pleasure of laying before you the result of our deliberations. In preventive and hygienic measures concerning the daily life of the crew, we think there is nothing left undone by the chief surgeon of your sliip, but should the disease not abate, and continue to appear as it is, we consider that there would be no alternative to be adopted for j^our ship than to return home and undergo thorough disinfection." Also, as urgent requisites, the following measures were notified to the Captain, which were directly put into execution. 1. —All water used for washing &c. should be well boiled. 2. —-The water-tanks should be cleansed thoroughly.