IXJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 186 on the right leg. (The iojiu-ed man said about the course of the bullet that it lightly touched the left side of the forehead, the tip of the glans penis, pierced the leg from the inner to the outer side and at last fell on the deck). Conditions of the wound :— On the inner side of the upper fourth of the leg, an irregularly lacerated oval hole 15 c. in. in diameter was found which went through the calf forming a lacerated exit 7 c. m. long and 4 c. m. wide on the back of the middle part of the leg. The wound was temporarily dressed on board the ship and the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 20th. On inspection, a slight htemorrhage was found which moistened the bandage, but the bleeding had never been severe. A drainage tube was introduced and an antiseptic bandage applied. On October 30th, as the canal of the wound had grown narrow by favorable granulation, the drainage tube was replaced by carbolic gauze. By November 13th, communication between the outer and inner apertures was closed owing to the union of the middle part of the canal. On February 20th, a cicatrix formed. Afterwards, owing to the contraction of the cicatrix, the dorsum of the foot on the injured side swelled slightly, and there was some pain at the cicatrized part. Warm bathing, friction with spirit of camphor and massage were resorted to, and, by the middle of March, the swelling and pain of the leg entirely disappeared, and the patient could walk easily. On the 14tli of the same month, he was, completely recovered and returned to service. (See the illustra- tion). 283.—F. Haruki, aged 25, one of a gun-crew on the Yoshino, in the course of the bombardment of the eastern forts of Liukung Island, was standing by No. 6 12 c. m. gun in the port side amidships, when a shell hit the shield of No. 6 3 pounder. One of the fragments of the broken shield, inflicted a perforating wound at the part between the upper and middle third. The wound on the inner and back part was irregularly lacerated in a crescent-like form measuring 3. 3 c. m. long and 2. 7 c. m. wide, and that on the outer side was of an oval shape 6 c. m. in length and 5 c. m. in breadth. It seemed that the one on the outer side was the entrance and the inner the exit. On examining the wounds, no important structures were injured. A drainage tube was introduced, a corrosive gauze applied and the patient was ordered to keep quiet. At night he complained of severe pain, which was alleviated with a dose of morphine. Temperature was 37°. 8 C; next morning, the dressing was soaked with bloody serum, which was accordingly changed. The same day he was removed to the hospital ship Kobe-maru. On the 10th, the lacerated portions of the