THE BATTLE OF YAL^. ]8 Hotchkiss' gun had his membrana tympani rnpfnred by the shock of a gun fired on the jjoop deck. The FUSO. l.—At 8.50 p.m., a 30.5 cm. steel shell (?) struck against tlie stern on the port side, at a point 1 metre above the sea level, leaving a, round hole of 820 m.ni.; destroyed the command- er's cabin, perforated the lower ])art of the wall in the Cidjin, and crushed the fresh water pipe leading to the captain's galley, also severing the wall between a torpedo officer's and a lieutenant's cabins. It then passed across t<3ward Hie starboard side and entered the ward- I'oom, crushing the tables and chairs, :uid daimiging an iron ]>illar, two arm racks, and three walls in the room, again, flying up oblique- Iv, it destroyed the wall between the chief navigatitig and gunner}' lieutenants' rooms in the middle deck of the port side. I/istly it flew off, perforating the starboard side near the navigator's room and leaving a liole of 1,28 X 0.()5 m. jSTo casualty. 2.—At a, time not ascertained, a 80.5 cm. shell exploded, falling' into the sea near the starboard side of the bow :ind its fragments reb(iunding perforated the lowei' part of i^Io. 2 scuttle on the starboard how, at a point 1.82 m. above the sea. level, thus making:) round hole^ which measured 180 m.m. in diameter, on tlu; starljoard side near the upper ])ortion of the middle deck (mess-deck) ; finally, it stopped at the water way. No case of killed or injured occurred. 8.—At 1.24 p.m., a 7.5 cm. steel shell ])erforated the water way on the upper deck midships, starboard, :it a point 4.55 m. above the sea level, and made a round hole of (i5 m.m. on the outer plating, and an oblong hole of 80 m.m. on the inner ])la.ting. It tlien explod- ed against the booms and an iron pillar on the poi't side. Fragments of the shell and other splinters wounded two men on the 8rd 7.5 cm. gun battery and Sub-Lieutenant Uchizaki on tlie port bat:tery of the upper deck. Another fragment sti-u(ik the semaphore signal staff on