164 INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. On the October 30tlj, he was dismissed from the service for life having been adjudged unfit for duty again, owing to the loss of these two fingers and he left the hospital. He is now a pensioner according to the regulations. 243. —Mutilation of the limbs with burns of whole body:—T. Hisa- dami, aged 27, a petty officer on board the Matsushima, in the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was in tlie neighborhood of the powder magazine in the fore part of the lower deck, as the chief officer of the magazine, when a hostile shell burst against the shield of No. 4 gun on the port side of the lower deck, and at the same time ignited the ammunition provided for the side-guns. By this accident, he was burned all over the body, and having all his limbs mutilated, he died on the spot. 244. —Partial mutilation of the limbs with extensive burns: —^l- Furuya, aged 27, one of the gun-crew of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was filing the No. 4 gun on the port side, when an enemy's shell flew in over the starboard waist netting and burst against the stanchion of the booms on the port side. At the moment, by some of the fragments of shell he sustained terrible wounds in the upper and lower limbs, mutilating the soft tissues as well as bones. j\Ioreover, a flying shell fragment struck the powder case carried by another man and set it on fire, thus igniting his clothes which gave him burns over a larger part of his body. He died immediately. 8.-INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. (A) INJUEIES OF THE GLUTEAL AND INGUINAL EEGIONS. 245. —Blind wound of the left gluteal region:—T. Hashiguchi, aged 19, a cook on board the Takachiho, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was in the gun sup- port, turning the fan leading to the magazine, when a liostile shell exploded striking the starboard side of the after part. One of the shell-fragments piercing the ship's side dashed into that gun support and inflicted on him a lacerated wound of an irregular shape, 2 cm. in diameter, and 3 cm. below and behind the great trochanter of the left femur. The wound had serrated edges, attended with a slight hajmorrhage. The Avound took a winding course forwards and down-wards between the muscles to a depth of 7 cm. On probing no foreign bodies were found. An atiseptic bandage was applied. Taken on board a transport bound home on the 19th, the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. There was a slight pus dis- charge from the wound, but under antiseptic measures it progressed favorably, and