341 PERFORATED WOUNDS. and wooden-splinters none at all owing to the weakness of force. In perforating wounds, the entrance hole is, as a rule, larger than the exit. This can he proved in Nos. 2, 5, 8, 16, 17, 21, 22, and 25 instances before mentioned. The entrance hole is larger than the exit, but as was already said, shell-fragments are unfit for penetration owing to their irregular shape and to the lack of velocity, and when they enter such places as the abdomen or thigh, the skin is not broken un- til it has been stretched to the utmost extent as is the case in produc- ing a blind wound, and for this very same reason, the orifices of the penetrating wounds may be more or less smaller than the shell-frag- ments themselves, in proportion to the degree of the yielding of the skin. However this can not be proved by fact, for there was no case of penetrating wound in which the shell-fragment was obtained so as to enable us to investigate the relation between the size of the wound orifice and that of the shell fragment. Indeed, in the 25tli instance where the fragment remained in the skin, its size Avas ascertained, but as will be referred to later on, it was of no use for proving the fact concerned because there existed two shell-fragments w^hich prevented us from identifying the one as the chief cause. The 22nd instance is, as will be related later on, the only case of more or less interest. At the moment of formation of the exit in the penetrating wound, as the shell fragment is already weakened in its force by piercing through the tissues, and the skin has nothing to support outside, it can greatly be stretched, the resulting orifice is not only remarkably small, but most- ly presents a simple fissure. The 2nd, 17th, and 22nd instances are those in which the entrance and exit holes have a great dift'erence in size; and the entrance hole of the 2nd inst;ince was no less than 15 cm. in diameter, and that of the 17th 12 cm, in length, was of course ow- ing to the fact that the fragments were not small, but also in a certain