306 BLIND AND PENETKATINGT WOUXDS. taki u out. Aftei' tliat, the avotuuI progressed favonrably and healed in 7 weeks. (No. 259.) IBth example :—Owing to the explosion of a hostile shell in tlie turret, there were inflicted two lacerated wounds in the lower part of the left forearm; the radius was brok- en, and a foreign body was lodged in the bottom of the wound : The orifice of the wound was therefore widened and a shell fragment 1.5 cm. in diameter was extracted. There were also burns in the right temporal region with rupture of the right memb- rana tympanum. Afterwards, several pieces of the broken bone came out of the "wound of the forearm ; suppuration continued a long time and the complete healing of the wound required six months. (No. 225.) 14th example :—A case of blind wound on the back of the left thigh, the wound canal measured 10 cm.; at the bottom, was lodged an irregular oblong shell frag- ment 3 cm. long, 2 cm. wide and 1 cm. thick, which was extracted after admission to the hospital. Afterwards, the canal suppurated, assuming a fistulous condition, and constantly discharged pus. The sinus walls were frequently scraped ; the heal- ing process however, was so slow that it required altogetlier eleven months to heal. (Na 255.) 15th example :—A case of blind wound in the upper part of the right upper arm ; and another one in the lower part of the right forearm. The former wound reached to the surgical neck of the humerus, where a shell fragment was found wedg- ed into the bone substance. The wound in the forearm fractured the radius, but the presence of a foreign body was uncertain. However, after admission to the hos- pital, the wound was widened and an irregular shell fragment 2 cm. long, 1.5 cm. wide, and 6 m.m. thick was found and extracted. Both wounds suppurated, and that of the forearm was healed in the course of 7 weeks and that of the upper arm in 5 months. (No. 208.) 16th example :—A case of blind wound on the inner side of the right ankle, a sliell fragment wedged into the tissues which the man extracted himself as a part of the fragment was exposed. Tiie tibia was not broken. The wound was healed in five weeks. (No. 302.) 17th example :—A case of penetrating wound of the right knee joint, the tendon of quadriceps extensor and patella were broken, and irugments of shell and bone re- tained in the joint cavity, but both the fenmr and tibia were intact. The injnred