INJURIES OF THE FACE. 102 was inserted in the meatus. On August 2nd, there was a slight discharge from the canal. On examination, the membrane presented turbidity with congestion around the laceration. The auditory passage was washed with a boracic lotion and a corrosive cotton wool plug was inserted. On the 13th following, the discharge ceased and the laceration healed ; washing of the passage was stopped, and on the 18th, the hearing was nearly restored. 117. —T. Nagayama, aged 23, one of the crew of a gun of the Yoshm- during the naval fight of Phung-do on July 2oth, 1891, while firing upon the enemy's vessels, had the tympanic membrane of the right ear ruptured by the shock consequent on the discharge of the gun. Pain in the ear and impaired hearing were complained of. The speculum showed a lacerated hole a little above the middle of the membrane. The margin of the slit as well as the auditory canal were congested. An antiseptic cotton wool plug was inserted and the case healed on the 7tli of August. 118. —Rupture of right tympanic membrane with burns of face:— K. Saito, aged 25, belonging to the crew of No. 8 machine gun of the Naniwa was in tlie naval engagement of Phung-do on July 25th, 1891, standing by the No. 8 machine gun on the after part of tlie port side, when by the ejection of gas due to the discharge of the adjacent 12 c. m. gun, slight burns on the right temporal region and external ear were sustained. The right tympanic membrane was ruptured ; a mixture of boracic acid and olive oil was applied to the burns; and an antiseptic cotton wool plug Avas inserted into the ear. On August 5th, the burns healed, and on the 20tli the lesion of the membraua tympani recovered. 119. —Rupture of left membra tympanum :—M. Matsuoka, aged 27. In the naval engagement of the Yellow sea fought on September 17th, 1894, he was on the fort of the starboard Hotchkiss gun of the uppermost deck of the Itsuku- shima ands ustained a laceration of the left tympanic membrane by the shock of firing tlie 32 c. m. gun. On examination with the speculum, a perforation about the size of a linseed was found on the upper and back part of the membrane. The membrane was congested with loss of brightness and ringing in the ear and impaired hearing was complained of; (power of hearing being by a watcli ^^^); an antiseptic cotton wool plug was inserted in the meatus, and patient was ordered strictly to rest. On October 17th, the lacerated wound of the mendn-ane healed and the hearing was restored.