BLIND AND PENETR.Vl'ING WOUNDS 308 ed, the pain in the chest also abated by degrees, and tlie patient entirely recovered in 2 months. (No. 144.) 20th exaiBpIe :—A case of blind woinids in the lower third of the right thigh and in the dorsum of the right foot. In the former wound, a fragment of shell was found and extracted ; the latter wound crushed 1st and 2ud metatarsal bones, which were excised, three small shell fragments being found at the bottom. The former wound healed in 3 months, the latter, in 7 Aveeks. The patient was discharged from service as his walking power was impaired. (No. 305.) 21st example :—A gaping wound extending from the middle of the forehead to the bridge of the nose ; and thus the nasal spine of the frontal bone, nasal bones, the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and a part of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid were smashed. The wound presented a cavity, in whicli were lodged pieces of the bones and the shell fragment. The right orbit was filled witli extrava- sated blood and the eye-lids were strikingly swollen that they presented a dark pur- ple colour and one eye could not be opened. At the lower part of the right orbit, and on the right cheek, blind wounds were found, the latter containing a shell fragment as large as tlie tip of the thumb. Further, at the inner side of the right anlde was found a blind wound. When examined at the hospital, the right half of the face was greatly swollen and the eye of the same side could not be opened, the left eye was slightly swollen, and the conjunctiva a little congested. At the bottom of the wound in the right clieek, there was present a foreign body, which was extract- ed by enlarging the inlet and proved to be a small shell fragment. On examination, the right pupil was found dilated, and the sight greatly impaired, and in the fundus, detachment of the retina was recognized. Besides, antesthesia in the right side of the forehead, temple and cheek was present, x^lso, a small shell fragment was ex- tracted from the wound of the right ankle. All the wounds were gradually healing and tlie sight of the right eye was restored iu some degree, but external strabismus and double vision were left. The wound of the nose was healed by rhinoplasticy; but the anesthesia in the cheek and temple persisted as ever. The man was discharg- ed from service. (No. 106.) 22nd example :-—On the outer side of the lower part of the right upper arm was a lacerated wound 5 cm. long and 3 cm. wide. At its bottom, the periosteum of the humerus was found detached, and the bone fissured in a star like shape, but no shell fragment was found. Several contused wounds were also inflicted on the head, face.