INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 145 plied, and the grasping power of tlie right hand was entirely lost. On May 3rd, the patient was transferred to the Kuro Naval Hospital. Tlie granulation of the wound continued to develope gradually, and the discharge of pus ceased. By October 22nd, the wound had entirely healed, but the paralysis of the right musculo-spiral nerve remained as before, and the grasping power was no more than 5 k.g. The patieufc was therefore adjudged unfit for service, so on December 20th, he was invalided for life and left the hospital. He was pensioned according to the regulations. (See illustration.) (D). INJUKIES OF THE ELBOW JOINT. 210. —Contusion of the right elbow joint:—H. Kadotaui, aged 23, a sea- man belonging to the Tenryu, in the course of the attack on the eastern fort of Liu- kung Island, was working as a shell-carrier, iu the after cock-pit, when a well-direct- ed shell burst against the No. 2 gun on the larboard side of tlie upper deck, and broke the brass railing of the 3rd hatch, one of the broken pieces of the bar fell on liis right elbow causing a subcutaneous extravasation of blood in the extensor side of the joint, which gave rise to pain on flexion. Tlie joint was kept at a suitable position and dressed with a carbolic lotion. By the 17th, the swelling as well as the pain had greatly decreased, and the movement of the elbow was almost restored. Tincture of iodine and a tight bandage was applied and by the 22nd, the lesion had entirely healed. 211. —Contusion of the right elbow joint and contused wound of the left leg;—C. Sasaoka, aged 25, Sub-Lieuteuant of the Matsushima, in the en- gagement of the Yellow sea, was of&cer commanding the fire brigade on tbe lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell exploded striking the shield of the larboard No. 4 side-gun on the fore part of the lower-deck. This caused all the shells and powder provided for the side-guns to explode at once, and by the.shock he was thrown back and sustained blows on the back part of the parietal region, the right shoulder, and the right elbow joint; besides, by one of the broken pieces of the ship's planks, he received a contused wound in front of the middle of the left leg. At the moment of injury, he lost consciousness, but soon came to, and betook himself to putting the fire out; and when it was extinguished, he received treatment on board the ship. Tbe contusions of the head and shoulder were slight, so the swelling and pain disap- peared in a few days. But the swelling and pain of the right elbow joint became