460 KAK'KE. above 15 years of age, 9 were affected and one died. Here, the cause can again be traced to what they ate. Dr. Ito, who joined the emigration party, reports that as the cold increased, both fishing and hunting were interfered with, and thus, totally deprived of fresh meat —for even the cattle they had brought with them mostly succumbed to the cold, they had to live on a very scanty supply of nitrogenous food. We think that as long ;is they were engaged in fishing and hunting, they had suitable outdoor exercise, their appetites were healthy, and they took sufficient quantities of meat, of which there was still an abundant store. In the winter, however, they were confined to their huts, and took insufficient exercise ; their appetites declined in consequence, and they probably soon grew tired of such fatty diet as canned meat, we Japanese are not much accustomed to a diet of this sort and the persons in question were probably only too glad to take to the boiled rice and pickled vegetables with which they were so familiar. Similar cases have not unfrequently been observed in other quarters. During the voyages of our training ships in the hottest climates, the crews have often lost their appetite, and cases of kak'ke have been frequent, a fact that must be accounted for on the same grounds as those we have just stated. It is not difficult we think, to draw an inference as to the origin of the outbreak on Shimushu island. And now we do not hesitate to conclude that whenever rice is used as the principle article of food in the absence of other nitrogenous diet such as meat, kak'ke may prevail as well in the coldest as in the hottest regions. Besides the above examples, there have occurred many fatal cases of kak'ke among the persons who have passed their winters as an experiment on the islands of Shashikotiin, Tokumu, and Horo-mushiro in the Kurile group. When a large number of emigrants made a second trial to pass the winter there in 1897, their former experience suggested to them to