KAK'KE. 462 the disease attacks Japanese only while the Koreans are almost free from it. As regards dwelling, the Korean houses are small, dark and unclean, and many Koreans lead a very miserable life several grades below that of our people. Yet, kak'ke occurs among these two classes of people in a reverse proportion. In our opinion, this must be at- tributed to the fact that the Koreans chiefly live on peas and do not eat so much rice as the Japanese do. If kak'ke is of an infectious character as some believe, it is quite unaccountable that it should not spread among the natives in such a case. Then again, observe the condition of a Chinese town : the uncleanness of the streets by far sur- passes that of our towns as a rule. Nevertheless, Chinese suffer from the disease far less frequently than the Japanese. The fact that in our country it once prevailed in crowded places as barracks and prisons, etc., and that even at the present day the persons most frequently attacked are boarders in schools, inmates of factories and boarding-houses, ap- prentices of various kinds, all points us in the same direction. These persons unlike those who live at home, are served with an almost uniform diet from day to day, and are unable to make their choice according to their liking. Indeed, boiled rice is Avhat every Japanese eats with fondness, but as regards auxiliary food, each man's taste differs as his face does—so also with modes of cooking. Despite this, the auxiliary food served to the people above mentioned is as a rule very poor. For instance, the beef or pork is so tough and inferior in quality that even those who have exceedingly good teeth can scarcely masticate it. Consequently, the quantity of rice taken by these people is apt to increase owing to the unavoidable insufficiency of auxiliary dishes ; and especially so in summer when the appetite declines, and has to be stimulated by " chazuke-meshi " as already mentioned. No wonder then that these persons are favored subjects of kak'ke ; mere crowding can not be counted as in itself a sufficient cause of kak'ke.