77 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 65. —Penetrating wound of the cranium and mutilation of right thigh.—T. Sanada, aged 20, one of tlie crew of the No. 7 light Hotchldss gun on the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing the gnn on the starboard side at the middle of the flying deck, when a shell exploded against the mounting of the same gun. Some of the fragments of the shell inflicted a penetrating wound on the left side of his forehead, at the same time mutilating the upper portion of the right thigh. He was killed on the spot. 66. —Penetrating wound of the cranium and mutilation of the ab- dominal wall.—M. Hamada, aged 27 senior carpenter of the Akagi, in the same battle, was standing as one of the fire-brigade on the fore part of the lower deck, when a shell exploded on the same deck. Its fragments gave him a penetrating wound of the skull in the right temporal region and mutilated tlie lower portion of the abdominal wall so that his bowels and bladder protruded. He died on the spot. 67. —Perforating wound of the cranium.—M. Kohamu, aged 21, seaman of the Akagi, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was, as a pnmper, engaged in turning the Downton pump on the fore part of the upper deck, Avhen a fragment of a shell came in from the starboard side and inflicted a perforated wound from the external occipital protuberance to the spot between eye-brows, wliich of course caused instant death. 68. —Mutilation of the head.—S. Matsuo, aged 29, a magazine man of the Itsukushima, daring the combat of the Yellow sea, was at work in the torpedo-room in the fore part when a shell burst against the boom provided for the use of the torpedo-net on the outer side of the ship, and crushed the side opposite to the torpedo-room. One of the fragments of the shell severed the front part of his skull so as to cause instant death. 69. —S. Arimatsu, aged 24, a magazuie man of the Hiyei. In the battle of tlie Yellow sea, he was busy lifting up shells at the entrance of the machine-gun magazine below the ward-room. A 30.5 cm. shell exploded in the ward-room on the lower deck, and by one of the fragments that came through the deck, he had his skull mutilated so completely tliat the brain was smashed. Death was instan- taneous. 70. —K. Chikaraatsn, aged 21, a magazine man of the Hiyei, daring the fight in the Yellow sea, was lifting up shells at the entrance of the musket-shot magazine below the ward-room when a 30.5 cm. shell exploded in the ward-room on the