IXJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 143 examination a sliell-fragiueut was recognized inserted in the bone, which was extracted. Also on the back of the lower fourth of the right fore-arm, a lacerated wound as large as the tip of the thumb was seen ; the passage of the wound ran up- wards to the depth of 3 cm. reacliing to the radius which was fractured. The wounds were dressed antiseptically, and the patient was conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st of the same month on board the transport Genkai-niarn. Botli wounds continued to discharge pus mixed witli pieces of broken bone ; so on October 1st, under the influence of an anaesthetic the inlets of the wounds were cut open and examined. The shaft of the liumerus just below the surgical neck was found to be severed so as to reach the medullary canal, but without complete fracture, also, at the bottom of the wound of the fore-arm, a small shell-fragment (as sliown in figure 7) was found and a fissured fracture of the radius. The Fig. TFratfiuentof shell extracted from fragment of shell in the forearm and the pieces of broken bone the wound of right -,,..„, forearm, were extracted ; then the Avound was dressed antiseptically and a drainage tube introduced to tlie wound of the arm. After the operation there was a sliglit rise in the temperature, but in two or three days it returned to normal again ; the pus discliarge gradually subsided and healthy granulation developed. By the 5tli of November, the wound of the fore-arm had healed, leaving no derangement of the movements of the radius. The wound of the upper arm still discharged pus and on probing a coarse surface of bone was felt. By the middle of December, tlie pus dis- charge had greatly diminished so that the dressings had to be changed only every tliree days. Shortly after, the surface of bone became completely covered by callus and the coarse surface of bone could no longer be felt. The drainage-tube was re- moved and by March 6th, 1895, the wound of the upper arm formed a depressed cicatrix witliout leaving any marked derangement of the movements of tlie limb, so the patient left the hospital and returned to duty. 209.—Penetrating wounds of both humeri with perforating wound of chest and blind wound of the back &C :—M. Fujii, aged 28, a seaman of the Itsukushima, in the naval battle of the Yellow sea, was passing behind the bow gun on the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded after coming through the port nett- ing. Some of the flying shell-framents inflicted a large wound 15 cm. in length and 5 cm. in diameter on the left side of the back at the 10th rib. The rib was broken, the chest wall pierced and the lung perforated so as to let air mixed with l)lood escape.