BLTXD AND PEXETRVTiXj WOUN'DS. 329 numerous punctured wounds on exposed parts as tlie face, neck, sind hands. The 2nd example is an extremely rare c ise in which a large wooden sphnter firmly wedged itself into the left sacro-iliac joint, breaking the hones and probably injuring the cauda equina, followed by the complete paraplegia of both lower limbs and paralysis of the bladder and rectum. As this wooden piecs was ver}" firmly in, several forcible attempts to pull it out Avere made, lm.t in vain, only ii broken part of it being removed. The size of the wooden splinter was not ascertained, yet it seems to have l^een some 5 or fi cm. in diameter, and being so firmly wedged into the joint, it is certain that it Avas not weak in force. Wooden pieces are it is true, generally Aveak in force ; Ixit tliey difter in AA^eight and consequently haA^e not the same force as shells ; so Avlien a splinter is p;)inted at one end and con- sequently fit f )r penetration, this kind of Avound may be expected. (4) Dlind Avounds : uncertain Avhether caused by shell-fragments or by iron-pieces. These are 3 in all occurring in 3 persons, as is shoAvn beloAv. 1st example :—A silell burst, stvildng tlie ii-oii-pillar on the deck: broken frag- ments of the shell and the pillar scattered, and inflicted following wounds : first, a blind wound on the left side of the chest, breaking the 5th and 6th ribs on the axil- lary line, accompanied Avith heavy lueniorrhage. But the Inng seemed not to have been injured as there was no hfemoptysis. Wliat was tlie size of the fragment could not be known as its location Avas not ascertained. Secondly, in the calf of the left leg and on the outer side of the left ankle joint there Avere blind wounds in which iron- fragments were retained. The temperature rose to 38° C. and blood accumulating in the left pleural cavity, signs indicating increased pressure in the chest supervened, and the patient died next morning. (No. 143.) 2nd example :—A shell burst against the gun-support, and the fragments of the shell and of the broken iron inflicted a penetrating wound on the left side of the forehead. Also the upper part of the right thigh was mutilated and the injured man died on the spot. (No. 05.)