BLIND AND PENETEATIXG WOUNDS. 304 4.-BLIND AND PENETRATING WOUNDS. (1) Blind and penetrating wounds caused hy she]]-fragments:—- in tliis group tliere were 57 wounds, occurring in 41 persons, of wliicli some of tlie interesting cases are as follows : 1st example:—7 persons were killed on tlie spot, owing to penetrating wonncls of the head caused by the fragments of shell, and 1 person died within the day of injury from the same cause. (Nos. 45, 55, 56, 57, 58, 61, 62, 63.) 2nd example :—Penetrating wound in the left side of nmbilicus. When admit- ted to the hospital, four days after the injury, the symptoms of diffuse peritonitis were marked : the abdomen was tympanitic with nausea and vomiting, ejecting a blackish fluid, and abdominal pain was also intense, the general strength of the patient was failing, and at last he succumbed. (No. 163.) 3rd example:—A shell fragment penetrated into the abdominal cavity, crushing the anterior superior spine of the right ilium, and the intestine protruded from tlie wound. The injured man was killed on the spot. (No. 166.) 4th example:—A penetrating wound in the umbilical region with protrusion of small intestine. The man also sustained a small blind wound in the left thigh. He was killed on the spot. (No. 164.) 5th example :—A case of penetrating wound below the umbilicus with protrusion of the intestine; also, on the right upper arm as well as the left thigh and leg, exten- sive contused lacerated wounds with fractures of the bones. The injured man was killed on the spot from shock. (No. 165.) 6tli example :—A case of blind wound in the middle third of the right leg. After admission to the hospital, a shell fragment 2.7 cm. in length, 1.7 cm. in width, and 1.5 cm. in thickness was extracted, and the wound was healed in 5 week.s. (No. 280.) 7th example:—A case of blind wound in the middle of the left upper arm. It reached the bone, but without injuring it. There was also, a blind wound in the left forearm which crushed the upper part of the ulna with lodgement of shell fragment in the bottom of the wound; the brachial artery was ruptured at its bifurcation, but haemorrhage was not copious. Pulsations of the radial and ulnar arteries were entire- ly lost. When admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital 4 days after the injury, the