PEEFORATED WOUNDS. 342 degree to the fact that they flew down in a slanting direction. Though the exits were strikingly small compared with the entrance orifices, they had an irregular square or a star-like shape, and not a lacerated form. This was because the skin could not escape from losing substance in spite of its extension, as the shell-fragments were not small. On the contrary, there were cases in which both the en- trance and exit holes presented a lacerated form, as is seen in the 10th and 23rd instances : this probably because the shell-fragment struck the part with their narrowest surf ice. If a shell-fragment is weak in force, it greatly depresses the skin producing a lacerated entrance hole, but the fragments in the said two instances certainly were not weak seeing that the bones were broken. Also, there were cases in which both entrance and exit holes had almost the same size and shape as is seen in the 10th and 13th instances. This was perhaps because in both cases the bone having been broken, the shell-fragments must liave been driven out in a mass with the bony pieces as well as the severed soft tissues, so that the exit holes were made as large as the entrance ones. Indeed, in cases of perforating wounds attended with fracture of bone, it is no wonder that the exit holes sometimes are larger than the entrance one, as it is a well known fact witli the perforating wounds made by bullets involving the bone. This is ex- emplified in the 23rd instance in Avhich the exit hole was larger than the entrance, probably owing to the fiict that the broken pieces of the bone were driven out in a mass with the shell-fragment. But the 1st in- stance of the perforating wound is an exception to all reasons suggested: the wound was reported to have had an entrance hole 2 cm. in diameter and an exit liole somewhat larger and of a lacerated form ; and as it did not injure the bone passing from the ball of thumb to the back of the hand, the size of the exit hole should have been smaller than