IMJURIES OF THE UPPJi^R EXTREMITY. 189 He snsfcainecl burns of the 2nd degree on tlie face, ears, neck, left arm down to the fingers, right foreai-m down to the fingers and on both legs ; moreover, a fragment of shell inflicted a lacerated wound, 6 cm. in length, on the posterior part of the left npper arm. Temporary treatment was given on board the ship, and, on the 20tli, he was admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time the face was all covered with l)lack scabs and the snrfices of the upper and lower limbs were denuded of epidermis, thus exposing the dermis and causing extreme pain. The lacerated wound of the left upper arm was located on the back part, 3 cm. above the elbow joint, and had lacerated the greater part of the triceps. The wonnd was gaping and suppurating. It was antiseptically managed and the left upper arm was kept in an extended posi- tion. By October 3rd, the burns all healed by renovating epithelium except on the left ear ; and the wound of the left upper arm developed healthy granulation and the pus discharge ceased. On November Oth, the wonnd of the upper arm formed cica- trices, and the ulcerated surface of the left ear healed by scabbing. The elbow joint gave pain, when forcibly flexed so that its free movement was slightly hindered. Local bathing and active movement of the injured part Avere ordered, till the joint was at last restored to free movements, and the grasping power of the hand recovered. On February 21st, 1895, he returned to duty. 203.—Gutter wound of ths right upper arm :—H. Sasaki, aged 35, Lieute- nant of the Akagi, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was standing on the bridge engaged in measuring the positions of the hostile ships, when a fragment of exploded shell came on the bridge from the fore part of the starboard side, and hit him on the rigljt upper arm, so that he lay down fainting for a while, bnt soon came to himself. On examination, a lacerated wound, 4 cm. in length, 1.5 cm. in widtli and 1.2 cm. in depth, was found rnnning from the outer side towards the inner and lower part on the lower tliird of the right arm. The margins were irregularly lace- rated but as there was no injury to blood vessels, hamorrliage was not profuse ; there was no lesion of bone. Under antiseptic precautions, the wound was sutured to- getlier, a drainage tube introduced, iodoform sprinkled and a corrosive gauze applied. By the 23rd of tlje same month, the outer half of the wound had healed, but the inner half suppurated, so the sutures wore removed. The granulation of the wound was unhealthy, presenting a grayish-colour, and discharging an offensive thin pas. Lotion of permanganate of potash was tried, with iodoform dusting, and wet carbolic compress, after which the granulation improved, and the pus diseliarge gradually