291 CONTUSED WOUXD. shell-fragments having, as a rule, a stronger force than the others, are more prone to produce other kinds of wounds; that is, penetrating or perforated wounds with the smaller fragments, and mutilating wounds Avith the larger ones. The size and severity of contused wounds from shell-fragments do not only greatly differ according to the size and force of the frao^ments, hut also according: to the character of the surfaces with which they strike the skin, that is, whether they have a plain surface or an edged. For example, there are some cases in which the skin was opened, soft tissues smashed and a deep seated hone as the femur crushed to pieces (as with cases a & e ; and some cases in which though the injury was confined to the soft tissues, yet it was extensive in area as is remarkably seen in case which was perhaps caused by a large shell-fragment flying nearly parallel with the long axis of the injured limb; just in the same way as a small shell-frag- ment which produces a grooved wound. And there are cases in which the injury was so small and shallow that the skin and subcutaneous tissues only were rent. So we see striking differences in the severity of the contused wounds. However, in every case, the wound had an irregular surface, with severely contused margins so that the vital function of the tissues was lost. Again, of those cases in which a part lacking soft tissues was hit by a small shell fragment, the contusion was mostly very slight. In these cases, a portion oi shell-fragment may, in spite of having penetrated into the tissues, fall out again, ow- ing to the resistance of the hard bone. Accordingly, there may be some cases which should properly be enumerated among blind wounds, but the distinction is difficult as the fragment was not retained in the wound. The contusion of the head is naturally very serious; in cases li & /r;, the skull was extensively broken involving the brain substance, so that the men died on the spot. Case n was a case of contused wound 6 cm. long, on the forehead; it reached the bone though no