2S9 CONTUSED WOUXD. [—This was a case of a small contused wouikI in the npper border of tlie right temporal region ; it reached the hone but without any lesion to it. However, after a time paralysis of the left fingers supervened, which persisted after the healing of the wound in three weeks. (No. 41.) —This was a case of a contused lacerated wound G. cm. long and 3 cm. wide extending from the left side of the forehead to the vertex and causing fracture of the skull, and injury to the brain. In addition, he sustained another wound 24 cm. long and 9 cm. wide on the outer side of the left leg and many others of the same description on the face, chest, and the limbs. The injured man died instantaneously. (No. 51.) |_—This was a case of a contused lacerated wound 15 c m. long and G cm. wide extending from the middle of the forehead to the vertex. The cranium was smashed and the brain injured ; besides, he sustained a contused wound in the middle of the right upper arm and on the back of the elbow joint of the same side, attended by the fracture of the bone. The injured man was unconscious and died soon after the in- jury. (No. 49.) lYi.—This was a small contused wound with loss of tissues below the left eye ; the superior maxilla was broken to pieces, so that the wound communicated into the antrum, and the hjemorrhage was copious. The eye lids were much bruised and in the ocular conjunctiva 2 or 8 minute iron pieces were to be seen. On examining the antrum broken pieces of the bone and coagulated blood were found but no injuries to the other bony walls of the antrum. The wound fell to suppuration ; the eye lids were greatly swollen, the swelling, however, subsided in course of time. On exami- nation, the vision of the left eye was reduced to with retinal hjemorrhage. The left cheek and lips became ana3sthetic. The wound was completely healed by Decem- ber 18th; the eye-sight was not yet recovered, the antesthesia of the left cheek and lips also still lingered. So the patient was dismissed from service on February 9th of the following year. Besides the wound mentioned above, the patient received a perforated wound in the upper part of the left arm, and two contused wounds in the upper part of the left forearm attended with fractures. (No. 103.) n.—This was a case of a contused wound G c. m. long, on the left side of the forehead. The wound reached to the bone and detached the pericranium, but the bone was intact. The soft tissues around the wound were irregularly torn and swoll- en, and the skin below the eye of the same side presented a purplish discolouration.