CONTUSED WOUND. 297 The 3rtl example was a contused wound inflicted by a flying wooden splinter. The wound was 4.5 c. in. in length and 1 c. in. in width extending from the left frontal eminence to the upper eye-lid passing between the eye-brows, and peneti-ating to the bone. The margins were torn attended with slight ha-morrhage. Both the upper and lower eye-lids were greatly swollen with an extravasation of blood, and beneath the ocular conjunctiva and in the anterior chamber there was haemorrhage. The cornea became opaque, and the sight was entirely lost. The wounds gradually healed, but the swelling of the eye-lids still remained so that the eye could not be opened. The ocular conjnnctiva became inflamed and swelled, so as to completely cover the cornea which was opaque ; the conjunctiva of the right eye was also conge- sted. In a month after the injury, the wound was completely healed, but the opacity of the left cornea remained as ever, and the sight vi'as not restored; the inflammation of the conjunctiva declined, but pain in the eye was present. After a time, the inflammation gradually abated, but the left eye withered by degrees, and the right eye was inclined to become inflamed. The left eye was enucleated and an artiflcial eye put in. The left eye ball was atrophied and all the tissues shriveled. The righc eye became restored to its normal state, and the patient left the hospital 4 months after the injury. (No. lO'J.) ' There were 2o cases of contused wourids caused by wooden splinters which if proportioned to 58 cases, the total number of various wounds occasioned by the same cause, will give a ratio of 39.66 per cent, and so are the most numerous amongf the various wounds inflict- ed by splinters. Thus we can see that this ratio is larger, than that of the contused wounds caused by shell-fragments, and about the same as that of the contused Avounds produced by iron-pieces. This is because wooden splinters being weaker in force than the iron-pieces, most of the splinters Avill not do more than produce either contused wounds or contusions. Therefore, if the united number of contusions and cori- tused wounds caused by wooden splinters, be compared to the total number of various wounds produced by tlie same, the former Avill bear a ratio of 68.97 per cent, which is much larger than the -10.14 per cent,