DRINKING WATER. 517 there were only four main-boilers which liad all be applied to the engine during the voyage, no boiler could be i\sed entirely for distilling purpose. As a result, the water obtained smelt of oil, and as we could only use fresh water for the main-boilers the consequence was that the quantity allowed to each person for various uses had to be greatly curtailed, and we were compelled to resort to the water brought by transports, or from the shore. We had to do this for about a year; and we suffered greatly during this time from the want of good drinking water. For instance, during the winter, fresh water was brought in boats from the shore to the ship's side, and as it was being taken into the tank by the hose would freeze. Then we broke the ice, and water began to pass through, but in a short while, it again froze, causing great trouble. At other times we were very glad to get a supply of water from transports, when to our great disappointment, we found that the water was too salt to be used for drinking purposes. It often therefore occurred in our ship that each officer and man could only be allowed one cupful of water a day for washing purposes but notwith- standing this none of us suffered in health from the scarcity of water." Drinking water sent to the front was from the Naval Station of Sasebo, where it was chiefly taken in from the Sasebo aqueduct, and when that water was scanty, a supply was often obtained from Omura village at the head of Omura Bay. The latter water, however, com- pared with that of the Sasebo aqueduct, was found to contain a larger quantity of salt. At the time, when drinking water was taken in on board a transport, the water was never allowed to be placed on board before it was ascei'tained to be good by the surgeon of the ship, after qualitative examination. Nevertheless, every time the water was re-examined after it was removed to the battleships in the front, there was found an increase of salt therein, so much so that sometimes aqua argenti added to it produced a precipitate. In such cases, the water was never appropriated for drinking purposes but for miscellaneous uses. The increase of saline ingredients after loading into a transport had its origin in her ballast-tank, for it was usual with each transport to fill the said tank with sea-water on her voyage home, and they did