110 INJURIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. a bean was extracted. Then tlie rib was examined, but no fracture fjund, only tbe stripping of pericliondrinm of the costal cartilage. The incised margins of the wound wei'e sutured, a drainage tube introduced and carbolic gauze applied. On the 26th, the threads were removed as the parts had formed union ; the wound however still dis- charged a slight pus, though the granulation was healthy. On the 28th of Oct- ber the patient was removed to the Kure Naval Plospital. At the time, there was a granulating surface of 3 cm. on the chest with a sinus at the bottom, leading to the roughened costal cartilage. A drainage tube was introduced and iodoform gauze applied. On the 18th November, the surface of the wound had contracted so as to leave merely a very small aperture ; but the granulation in the sinus was unhealthy, discharg- ing a thin pus, and the healing process was exceedingly retarded, so, by the use of a sharp spoon the unhealthy granulation was scraped off and carbolic gauze applied. On December 23rd, tbe granulation had not yet improved and the pus discharge continu- ed ; on enquiring into the past of the patient, be was found to have had a syphilitic history, so much so that he had even then swelling of the lymphatic glands. An appli- cation of mercurial ointment was consequently ordered. On January 17th, 1895, the use of ointment was discontinued, and internal administration of iodide of potassium ordered. From that time the granulation of the wound improved with gradual decrease of discharge, so that, towards the end of March, there remained no more than a quite superficial and small granulating surface. However, from the 30th of the same month, his mind became somewhat abnormal, showing signs of melancholia Avith sleeplessness. A mixture of bromide and iodide of potassium with occasional doses of chloral hydrate was prescribed, and the patient was ordered to take walking exercise in the open air. At last, on April 12th, the wound of the chest healed by cicatrization ; the mental symptoms subsiding at the same time, he left the hospital on May 9th, and resumed his duty. 140.—Blind wound of the chest wall with abrasion of face and upper arm :—T. Saito, aged 30, gunner to No. 17 port gun of the Fuso, was wounded, at the engagement of the Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1894, by some of the broken pieces of the funnel, the lower part of which was pierced through by a hostile shell, while he was resting cross-legged on the left side of the funnel casiug. On examination, there was an oblong wound 6 cm. long and 2 cm. wide on the right side of chest wall ex- tending from the 7th to the 9th rib. Its depth was 2 cm. (the penetrating iron piece being exposed the injured man extracted it himself), the bottom reached to the costal