PERFORA.'1'ED WOUXDS. 337 pas accumuJated beneath the periosteum of the femur. The temperature rose, and symptoms of traumatic delirium began. Amputation at the upper part of the thigh was performed ten days after the admission, but the patient died soon after the opera- tion. (No. 261.) ■ • 14th instance :—A perforating wound from the hypogastric region to the loins. The injured man was killed on the spot. The size of the wound orifice was not recorded. (No. 169.) 15th instance :—At the same moment with the above, a perforating wound in the hypogastric region. The injured man was killed on the spot. The size of the wound orifice was not recorded. (No. 170.) 16th instance :—-A perforating wound on the back of the left hand, from the ulnar side of the 1st metacarpal bone, smashing the 2ud, 3rd, and 4th metacarpal bones with exit on the radical side of the 5th metacarpal bone. The entrance orifice had an irregular star-like form 3 cm. in diameter, and the exit a lacerated form about 3 cm. in length. Hiemorrhage was profuse though not continuous. Contused wounds were also sustained on the back of the head and left buttock. The wound of the hand suppurated, and as the bones were irregularly broken, those which were heavily damaged were resected, and others not so much severed were sawn off at the broken ends, the unhealthy granulation in the wound being scraped away. Thus, in 80 days after the injury, the wound was healed ; but owing to the loss of the meta- carpal bones, the man was dismissed. (No. 228.) 17th instance :—A perforating wound was received on the inner side in the upper third of the right thigh. The entrance orifice had an irregular round form, 12 cm. in diameter, and the exit which was situated beliind the former had an irregular square form 4.5 cm. in length. The muscles and other tissues protruded, and the margins were irregularly lacerated ; hfemorrhage was not heavy. Besides, tliere was an abrased wound on the abdomen. The wound of the thigh suppurated, and the tissues around the margin of the wound sloughed. The patient recovered after five months in the hospital. (No. 256.) 18th instance :—There existed a grooved wound, 18 cm. in length, 3 cm. wide, and 1.5 cm. in depth, running transversely on the back. The one end of the wound passed under the skin for about 3 cm, making an exit below the acromion process of the left scapula. The exit had an irregular round shape 5 cm. in diameter, the margins being unevenly lacerated. The bottom of the groos ed wound corresponding