EXTEEIC FEVEE. 414 men, who had always been healthy, and so many cases of enteric fever had never occurred before. Eeports on personal observations of Fever on board the Yamato by surgeon K. Koyano. The Yamato weigbecl anchor on the 23rtl August, 1895 at Yokosuka Bay, and touching at Tateyama, Matoya, Ebukuro, and Nagasalci, entered Kagosliima Bay on the 4th of September. Here she stayed 5 days, and on the 9th following left the port; on the 10th she cast anchor in the bay of Kuji in Emi-Oshima ; on the 12th foUov/ing again weighing anchor, she arrived at Keelung, Formosa on the 15th, the crew were all the while healthy. However, on the day before her arrival—that is, on September 14tli, while the ship was passing off the Yayeyama Isles, one of the seamen was attacked with febrile symptoms. Under quinine, his temperature took the course as slijwn in the No. 1 chart and returned, after 11 days, to its normal state, the man being able to resume his duty on the 16th day from the beginning of his illness. On September 20th, the ship left Keelung, and owing to bad weather, after lying at anchor 17 hours and 20 minutes off the coast of Amoy, arrived at the Pescadores on the 22ik1. Here she took up the duties of defence and reconnoitering, meanwhile plying several times between Anpiug and Takau. All this time the crew were healthy as usual. But unftjrtunately on the 1st of October, one of the seamen was attacked with febrile symptoms^ his temperature took a course as shown in No. 2 chart, and on the 6th day of illness, the crisis began. In another week, he returned to duty. On the 7tli following, a new case appeared, and the temperature took a course as shown in No. 3 chart. Many cases of febrile symptoms now occurred, and a regular administration of quinine was tried in the ship, and from October 7th, every individual was ordered every other day to take 0.3 gramme of quinine. This did not however prove effective and each day saw new cases occur. Therefore, from the 30th, quinine was given daily. Even messengers to the shore and landing parties carried the medichie with them, so that they might not be interrupted in its use. This was tried until the 12th November, but successive new cases made us feel that the effect of the drug was doubtful so the use of the medicine was suspended, and chief attentions were paid to hygienic measures, such as ventilation of the ship, cleansing and drying of clothes and beddings, prohibition of lying bare while sleeping, etc., under strict supervision, and also disinfection of the evacuations of patients ; great care was also paid to the water closets. Still new cases continued to appear as before and what was worse, on November 20th, jnst a week after the suspension of