279 COXTUSIOX. the iris exhibited a sernited appearance at its upper edge producing posterior synechias, the lens was partly dislocated towards the nasal side, and presented a grayish opacity, the eye-sight was entirely lost. As to the left eye, there was apparently no change, yet on examination of the fundus, detachment of the retina with hajmorrhage was found ; also entire loss of sight. After many months of treatment in tlie hospital, the wounds in the various parts of the body Avere already healed, and the inflammatory symptoms of the eye had disappeared, but the sight was lost forever. He was therefore invalided for life (No. 107.) How this contusion of the eye-balls was occasioned is inexplicable considering that the broken pieces of the sliell had ];)assed one foot in front of the face ; and again taking it for granted that the eye-balls were hit by some of the pieces, it is equally strange that the eye-lids and the bridge of the nose were left uninjured ; for it is quite inconcei- vable that Avhen both eyes were contused by broken pieces of a shell, the bridge of the nose lying between them should escape Avithout sus- taining even a slight contusion. The riddle could be solved if ^ye could assign the cause to explosion gas, from Avhicli the skin of the fixce might have sustained no injury Avhilst the sensitive and delicate eye-balls did. ljut the fact that the shell did not explode but AA^as simp- ly broken, is so certain on investigation that no doubt can be enter- tained on tliat i)oint. Then, could the theory of " a wound from the Avind of a ball " Avliich prevailed in former days be trusted, the present C!ise could easily be explained. According to that theory, the shell forces its Avay through the air, so rapidly that it produces either a vio- lent centrifugal vibration art^und the shell or centripetal vibration of the air just behind it, as the air around rushes in to till the vacuum. If a man be struck by this violent vibration of the air, the skin may escape from injury, yet internal organs Avill be hurt by compression.