CLOTHING AND BEDPING. 520 the chest and abdomen, over the undervest. Also, besides the regular clothing, shirts which were presented by the public were permitted to be worn, together with Chinese shoes. During the hottest season of the summer, the officers and warrant officers wore the summer uniform of white linen, and an under-vest either of thin flannel, thin knitted wool, or corrugated cotton according to their respective tastes ; and the petty-officers and seamen wore the summer uniform of white cotton, and an under-vest of flannel like that worn in winter. Besides these, from high officers down to seamen, each was provided with a cloth over-coat, and a water-proof, which were to be used for protection against cold and wet. For head gear, they generally used a round cap of blue-cloth. During the summer, it was covered with a white covering. And when going out in the hottest season, the officers and warrant officers wore a white helmet. During the voyage on the Formosan Sea the use of straw hats was specially permitted ; and the petty-officers, seamen and stokers used hats made of the leaves of palm-tree. The best cap for protection against heat during the summer was found to be one made of straw, or tiie leaves of the palm-tree. Covering the cap with white cloth was perfectly useless against heat. In the report furnished by S. Iwasaki, Surgeon of the Defence Mine Station at the Pescadores, will be found the result of an experiment made on the ilands at the hottest time June 26th, 1895, to determine the relative value of different kinds of caps. On June 26th, the weather was bright, and the heat was severe, the thermometer standing at 88° F. in the shade. A thermometer experiment was made a little after noon on various kinds of caps, with a view of ascertaining which cap was best suited for avoiding heat. The place of experiment was the yard on the south side of the barracks in the Sokuten Isle ; mid that the thermometer might be well covered by each kind of cap, a round aneroid barometer with a thermometer affixed was made use of. The experiment continued for an hour, and the result was as follows:—