135 INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. region healed hy cicatrix, and that of the scapula progressed favourably, so the patient was on that day transferred to Kore Naval Hospital. On December 22nd, though the wound of the scapula had healed, yet the movements of the johit were greatly impaired, and in addition, the upper limh on the same side was much emaciated, witli an entire loss of Fig. 6. Fragment oi shell extracted from the grasping power. These defects were not recovered after a wound of right thigh. lapse of many months, so he was dismissed from service for life on the lOtli of April, 1895, and was granted a pension according to the regulations. (B). WOUNDS OF THE SHOULDEE JOINT. 194.—Contusion of the right shoulder and ankle joints with ab- rasion of scalp .'—Gr. Okubora, aged 45, warrant officer of the Matsushima, in the course of the battle of the Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1894, was, in charge of the tackle-mending and of the carriers of the wounded, standing on the fore part of the upper deck, when a 30. 5 c. m. hostile shell burst against the shield of No. 4 port-side gun on the fore part of the lower deck, and, at the same time set on fire a large quantity of powder provided for the side-gun. By the shock of the explosion, the upper deck was rent open and forced up, throwing him about 6 yards backwards. At the time, noticing tire about him, he took a swab and tried to put it out, and for that purpose advanced some three steps in the smoke, when suddenly he fell down upon the lower deck through the gap just made in the upper deck. He sustained a contusion on the right shoulder and the right foot, with a slight abrasion on the head and left ear. At the time, the lower deck was filled with smoke and nothing could be seen, but he managed to creep to a starboai'd port hole led by a faint light, and getting out through it, climbed along the ship's side upon tlie upper deck, where he betook himself instantly to the work of extinguishing the fire. When the fire was put out, he was treated on board the vessel. Conditions of the wounds :. on the outer side of the riglit shoulder was a subcutaneous extravasa- tion, (the part becoming of a purple colour) attended by swelling and pains ; and over the outer ankle of the right foot another slight subcutaneous extravasation ex- isted, pain being felt on walking. Again on the left parietal region, and on the left ear, were seen abrasions of skin. To the injured parts of the shoulder and foot