CONTUSION. 275 which, whatever be their size, have :i much smaller velocity, should produce more cases of contusion. ]>ut, in point of fact, there occurred only 5 cases of such injury, giving only a ratio of 8.00 per cent of the total number of 60 cases of various ^vounds attributable to the same cause. This compared Avith the rati(3 of cases ])roduced by shell fragments is only a trifle larger. However, this was not a mere matter of chance. It is true that the detaeiied ]jieces of metallic materials Avere much Aveaker in force than shell-fragmerits, but they scarcely ever ficAv to any great distance and mostly iijjured persons at comparatively short distances, so that tliey could intiict Avounds other than contusions ; the more so, as tliey had the same irregular points and edges as the shell-fragments. (o) The number of contusi(jns <JAving to bloAvs from Avooden sphnters AA^as 17 for 14 persons. In m<3st of these cases, there oc- curred no more sequences than extravasation of bl<:)od and SAvelling, and mostly recovered iri a fcAv days. A fcAV cases of some interest are given here : — Ist example.—Case of contusion on the vigbt foreavni and hand by broken wooden pieces. Wlien the patient was admitted to the hospital aftei- four days of injury, the forearm Avas found swollen, and a fracture of the ulna was recognised at the juncture of the middle and lower third. A contusion on the back of the ring and little fingers on the same side with fracture of the first plialanx of the ring finger was also detected. The forearm and hand were fixed by plaster of Paris bandages, and in a month the fractures were united, but the movements of both fingers were impaired for ever and the man was invalided. (No. 223.) 2nd example.—Case in which the forearm and hand, and the outer side of the leg on the right side Avere struck by Avooden splinters. There resulted extra\-a- safions of blood and swelling in tlie parts struck and a fracture of the head of fibula. A splint was applied to the leg and the case healed in a month. (No. 284.) 3rd example.—Case in which the right upper eye-lid Avas abrased, attended with contusion of the ball; the conjunctiva was congested and there Avas an extra-