288 CONTUSED WOUND. —Tins was a case of a contused wonud 5 c. m. square rent open in a star like shape, at G cm. Lelow the spinous process of the left scapula, together with small cou- tusecl wounds on the outer side of the left little toe, and on the inner side of the right great toe. The contused wound on the scapula reached deep, so that the finger, if insert- ed, directly touched the hone, Avhich was however found intact. The wotnid canal took an upward and outward course for 4 cm. in depth. After a time, the wound fell to sup- puration, and pus was accumulating at the lower part of the wound, where accordingly a counter opening was made to facilitate its evacuation. However, the healing process was unfavorahle, and on October 12th, the temperature suddenly rose, and in spite of the slight discharge of pus, the margins of the wound became congested and signs of erysipelas appeared. The temperature reached 40°. C. and the local inflannnation extended somewhat, bat on the 26th the signs entirely disappeared and the wound was completely healed on November 14th. (No. 190.) e.—This was a case of large contused wounds attended with fractures in the inid- dle of the right upper arm, and of the lower part of the left thigh, and of the left leg; besides, there was a perforated wound of the abdomen. The injured man died on the spot. (No. 165.) f—This was a case in which a contused wound 3 cm. long was sustained on tlie left parietal region. The margins of the wound were irregularly torn, and its depth reached the bone ; the pericranium was detached and the outer plate broken, but happily no signs of compression or of injury to the brain substance were present. In the course of time, a free piece of bone at tbe bottom of the wound was removed, and from that time favourable progress was made until it was completely healed on De- cember 10th. (No. 48.) g. —This was a case of a contused wound on the inner side of the lower-third of the right thigh. There was copious bleeding owing to the injury of the femoral artery, so one of the carriers of the wounded man stopped the hagmorrhage by a compress bandage and carried hirn into the surgery in the wardroom at the rear of the lower deck. He was being attended by the surgeon, when unfortunately a hostile shell ex- ploded in the room and mutilated his chest and abdomen so tliat he died instantly. (No. 154.) h. —This was a case of a carrier of the wounded wlio brought the man above mentioned to the surgery when a fragment of shell gave him a severe contused wound tof he face with a fracture of the base of skull ; he died on the spot. (No. 53.)