INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 198 bound transport and conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At that time, the foot was swollen and discharged slight pns from tlje wounds, so it was washed Avith carbolic lotion, corrosive gauze applied, and the injured limb kept elevated. By October 1st, the wound on the left calf was healed, the swelling of the right foot abated, and the wound filled with healtliy granulation. On tlie 9th, the wound on the outer side of the right foot was healed, and that on the sole had grown very shallow, tliough there was still some discharge of pus. By the 16th, the Avounds were all healed, but the patient was still kept in the hospital, as walking was not perfect, owing to a lingering swelling in the dorsum of tlje foot, but on the 24th, he was perfectly recovered, and returned to service. 302. —Blind wound of the right foot:—Kato, aged 26, one of a gun- crew of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing the No. 8 port gun on the quarter deck, when an enormous shell exploded in the ward-room at the stern of the lower deck, and one of the fragments, bursting out of the sky-light, penetrated his leg just above the inner right ankle. He immediately extracted the fragment himself. As the same shell killed all the inedical staff on board the ship, he bandaged the wound himself, and was treated next morning by a surgeon from another ship, and admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. Conditions of the wound :—In front of the inner malleolus of the right foot Avas found a lacerated wound 3 cm. long, and 5 cm. deep. It was suppurating slightly and touched the bone, which, however, was not injured. Treated antiseptically, it pro- gressed favourably. He was, on the 30tli, transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital, and returned to service on October 24th. 303. —Blind wound of the right foot with abrasion of the right leg :— Y. Okamoto, aged 18, a blacksmith on board the Itsukushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was serving ammunition to the 12 cm. guns. He was going to the fore-part of the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded piercing the forward port netting. Some of the fragments inflicted a small blind wound at a part 3 cm. below the outer malleolus of the right foot, and a small abrased wound in front over the right tibia. Corrosive gauze Avas applied. On the 20th, the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital, and by that time, the wound on the right leg had healed, but on probing the canal of the Avound of the right foot, a depth of 3 cm. running backwards and upwards with a small fragment at the bottom