INJURIES OF THE ABDOMIN'AL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. 120 3rd lumbar vertebra and the pain in the deep part of the left ankle. After this time, progress was favourable and he could walk about 30 yards. However, on the night of December 8th, a pain was felt at the loins, and on the next morning an oval swelling 6 cm. in vertical diameter and 4.5 cm. in transverse diameter appeared on the right side of the 3rd lumbar vertebra, but with no inflammatory symptoms. To the touch, the swelling proved to be uniformly hard with tenderness on hard pressure, and a dull paiu was elicited in the movements of body. On the 25th, the swelling around the left ankle still lingered, a thickening just l)elow the outer malleolus remained and pain of the joint was caused by the eversion or inversion of foot, showing that the power of walking had not yet been restored to its normal condition. In this condition he loft the hospital on the 30th. The walking power was subsequently nearly restored to its normal state. (B). PEEFOEATED WOUND OF ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 161.—Penetrating wound of the right side of chsst and abdomen, blind wound of left leg and contused wound of head and left forearm I. Sasanuki, aged 40, quarter-master of the Saikyo-maru, in the battle of the Yellow sea, September 17th, was standing by the telegraph on the aft uppermost deck to send an order to the rudder, when a hostile shell hit the last boat davit on the starlioard quarter. He was wounded by some of the fragments on the head, chest, upper and lower extremities. On examination, there were found (1) a valvular wound 8 cm. in length rumiing transversely over the right temporo-parietal suture; the margins irregular, the depth 6 cm. downwards perforating the occipito-frontalis and abrasing the periosteum yet without fracture of the bone ; (2) at the right 0th intercostal space, a lacerated wound 3 cm. long running obliquely backward and downward ex- tending from tlie anterior to the posterior axillary lines ; the margins irregularly torn, the 10th rib broken, losing some 1.5 cm. of bone substance, and the bottom of the wound apparently perforating the liver ; (3) a small shallow contused wound on the front aspect of the middle of the left fore-arm ; (4) a lacerated wound 2 cm. long on the inner side of the lower third of the left leg ; the margins were ragged, the depth reaching as far as under the skin of the opposite side, where the presence of a solid Bubsfcance was recognized ; a counter-opening was made and a fragment of sliell, of an irregular-shape, 2.4 cm. in vertical diameter, 2 cm. in transverse diameter, and 1 cm. in thickness was extracted. A piece of cloth was adhering to the fragment (see the illustration No. 5).