IXJCRIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. 112 was fonncl jnst below tlie left acromion process, which Avas ronud, 5 cm. in diameter and with loss of snbstance ; the edges lacerated irregularly ; the bottom shallow, not reaching to the bone, but communicating under the skin with the grooved wound above described ; bleeding profuse. In the middle of the right side of the neck there was also a blind woxmd 6 m.m. in calibre, and 3 cm. in depth; no foreign body present within. At the time of injury, a large quantity of blood was brought up. Again on the outside of the lower part of the right upper arm a lacerated wound 3 cm. long was found. To the perforated wound of the nesk, a drainage tube was introduced and the other wounds were dressed antiseptically. The injured man being taken on board a transport on the 19th, was admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At the time, deglutition ^^nd phonation were difficult owing to the wound of the neck, but there was no cough or spitting of blood. The wounds on the back and arm were wide opeu, their margins slightly swollen. On the 27th, the discharge from the wounds decreased and the sloughs came off, presenting healthy granulation. The difficulty of deglutition and phonation dis- appeared. On the 30th, he was removed to Ivure Naval Hospital ; when the lace- rated wound of the right arm was slightly discharging pus, while the wound of the neck was much contracted. The wound of the back was however still wide opeu, though the granulation was favourable, and a new epidermis had developed. On October 8th, the communication between the two wounds under the skin of the back was filled with granulation. On November 9th, the wound on the neck was healed by scabbing. Plowever, those of the back and arm discharged rather copiously with dull granulation, so the niti-ate of silver was applied to the granula- tion and iodoform gauze applied. On December 22nd, the wound over the scapula developed healthy granulation, and contracted, while that of the arm had still unfavourable granulation. On January 1st 1895, the wound of the arm had. healed ; and that of the back had formed cicatrix, leaving only a granulating surface, 3 cm. long, in the middle of the back, to which boracic ointment was applied, till at last it healed by cicatrix on January 25th. The patient left the hospital on Febru- ary 5 th. (B). WOUNDS OF THE THORACIC CAVITY. 143.—Penetrating wound of left side of chest with blind wound of left leg ;—T. Kondo, aged 24, one of the crew to No. 3 7.5 cm. gun of the Fuso, in tlie naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was firing on the enemy's ships from the star-