PKltFORATED WOUNDS. 350 accordingly in weig'ht. If so, we must suppose that in producing so serious a perforating Avouiid, the iron-piece was imparted Avitli a striking velocity, which however is ahiiost an imallowable supposition, as was seen from the instances of the contused, blind, and otlier wounds caused by the same kind of objects. That only three cases of perforating wounds were produced by iron-pieces goes to show the same feet. In two instances of the three under consideration, the iron- pieces perforated soft parts, so their effect was not at all anomalous considering that the pieces had a shape fitted for penetration, but if the 2nd instance in question was really caused by an iron-piece, its force must have been exceptionally great. The injured person of the present case was reported to have received the wound in the Hiyei at about 1.20 p.m., when a hostile shell destroying the ship's side near jSTo. 7 starboard gun, scattered iron and Avooden pieces about. The shell itself was reported to have passed oft' without explosion, and if this report be correct, the present case can not be attributable to any other cause than an iron-piece. However, before and after that moment, that is, at about 1.15 p.m. and 1.25 p.m. many shell-frag- ments were scattered in that ship, and besides, all the surgeons on board having been killed, the histories of the killed and wounded had mostly to be gathered from the memory of the survivors, and con- sequently errors may have been committed in recording the times of the reception of injuries, (4) There was one case of perforating wound owing to bullet which is as follows :— One of the members of the laiuVing party at the Pescadores was shot from a distance of a few yards with a musket, and thus received a perforating wound from the chin to the right side of the neck. The wound was lacerated 12 cm. in length and 8 cm. in widtli. The bottom communicated with the cavity of the mouth ; the body of the lower jaw was broken into several pieces, and a part of it smashed into