522 CLOTHING AND BEDDING. the reports of petty officers and seamen that some slight alterations in clothing might prove of great benefit ; for instance the overcoats, some of which are too short to reach the knee, should be made a little longer, and also all be provided with a hood. The flannel shirt for winter-use should have its sleeves made longer, and a thin flannel shirt should be provided for summer use, and the water-proof coat which is of too course a material should be made of better stuff. There were some complaints of the length of the boots which came up too high to the knee and proved troublesome when working, and wishes were expressed that gloves should be of a better material. Lastly, the working garments being of hemp, easily absorb the heat of the sun and fire, and were not good for those who work near the fire as stokers. Our opinion is that, though cotton cloth is some- what inferior in point of durability, Kolmra cotton would be a good substitute. We found from experience that the severity of burns greatly depends upon the fabric of the clothing. At the battle of the Yellow sea, many cases of burns occurred on the Matsushima and it was found that, the burns were much more sevei-e with those who wore woollen clothes, than with those who were in working-garments of hemp; this was because the woollen clothes caught fire more easily than the hemp. The report by K. Ogizawa Chief Surgeon of the Matsushima says :— It came under our personal observation that the severity of burns depends on the material of clothing worn. At the time of the Yellow sea battle, some of our men wore working garments of hemp, while others those made of serge; and the latter had more severe burns than the former. This shows that woollen clothes catch fire more easily than those of hemp. The bedding of petty officers and seamen consisted, according to the reo-ulations, of three blankets, one of which was to be laid under, and the other two were to be used as covering. However, during the severest cold, almost every ship provided every man with two extra