196 IXJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. condition of tlie joint could not be ascertained. On the dorsum of the 4th toe of the right foot there was a lacerated wound 2 cm. long. The burned surfaces were cleansed with solution of boracic acid, and protected with boracic gauze, the auditory meatuses were plugged with antiseptic cotton and the ankle joint was kept in a splint and- constantly cooled. On the 30th, the burned parts were nearly covered with new epidermis, and the Avound on the toe had grown liealthy granulation, while the inflammation of the ankle joint and the rapture of the tympanic membranes pre- sented no change. This day the patient was transferred to tlie Kure Naval Hospital. On October 7th, the wound of the toe had healed. Tlie auditory meatuses were washed with solution of boracic acid as there was a discliarge of pus. In course of time, the inflammation of the ankle joint gradually abated, and it was found that there was a fracture of the outer malleolus and partial dislocation of the joint. The ice-bag was given up, the dislocation was replaced and the part was fixed with plaster of Paris bandage. On November 30th, the lacerations of the membrana tympani were healed, leaving induration of the membranes and dulness of hearing. The inflammation of the ankle joint had nearly disappeared and the plaster bandage was removed. As the broken malleolus had not completely united, and the restoration of the dislocated joint was not perfect, the sole of the right foot was inverted and prevented walking. By December 21st, the injury of the ankle joint had healed leaving a slight deformity, and lameness but as his health was otherwise quite restored, he left the liospital to return to service. (F) INJURIES OF THE FOOT. 297. —Contusion of th3 right foot:—J- Uyeda, aged 35, a petty officer of the Akagi, during the battle of the Yellow sea, was on duty iu the fore part of the upper deck, when a fragment of a shell entered from the starboard after quarter, passed beneath the shield of No. 3 Q.F. gun in the waist of the upper deck, went to the fore part of the same deck, struck tlie outer side of his left foot and inflicted a contused wound. On examination, there was a small swelling on the outer side of the dorsum of the left foot, with pain and extravasation under the skin, causing difficulty in walking. Lead lotion was applied, and the patient was ordered to rest. On the 22nd the swelling gradually abated, and walking became easy. On the 26th, he was completely recovered. 298. —N. Ivnrita, aged 35, Lieutenant of the Katsuragi, in the course of the attack