WARMING OF WAED-ROOMS, GUN-ROOMS, ETC. 526 The report of T. Shikano, Assistant Surgeon of the Hashidate states : On January 4th, 1895, our ship lay at anchor ofT Wei-hai-wei. Tlie iiiglit being ex- tremely cold, the oil of the torpedo machines froze, and with a view to melting it, the torpedo lieutenant ordered a fire brazier to be placed in each torpedo-room, fore and aft. About 12 o'clock in the night, one of the men sleeping in the fore torpedo-room was roused to go on watch, no sooner was he on the upper deck than he fell down. I went directly and examined him, when he complained that he had a very severe headache, and had once vomited a short while before. On inspecting the room wliere he had been sleeping, I saw that there was a brazier with a big fire with all the scuttles shut, and the room filled with a peculiar smell. So immediately the scuttles were opened to let in the fresh air, and all the inmates of the room, twelve in number were roused. Of these twelve persons, one fell down after a few steps, and another when he came upon the lower deck. These three had their clothes unfastened and were given artificial respiration, and thus they came round in a few minutes. Thereupon, they were placed in hammocks in the lower deck. Meanwhile, nurses and corporals were ordered to go and awake those who were sleeping in the torpedo- room aft and they were now removed to the lower deck. In this room, none were affected by the poison ; this probably was due to the fact that the fire was not so intense there. The aforesaid three persons received medical care for headache, but all recovered in a few days, without feeling any after-effects. In this way, for want of the means of conducting the gas, the fire-br;izier is dangerous, if suitable care be not taken for ventilation; and it is of course far better to use a stove if it can conveniently be provided. That little injury was caused by the fire-braziers was due to the fact that during the day-time when they were used, some scuttles and hatches were left open. Concerning the warming of rooms, a few reports stated that it was injurious, for one had to expose oneself to sudden changes from warmth to cold, and vice versa, which made the men more liable to catch cold and to be frost bitten. But most reports were in favour of warming apparatus from practical observation: warming oneself in a room gives alacrity to one's work in a time of benumbing cold, and