127 IN.TUEIES OF THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REaiONS. aiul burst in the fore part. One of the broken pieces inflicteLl a perforating wound passing from the left loin to the right inguinal region, breaking the ilium in its course, and found its way out to a spot above the right Poupart ligament. From the exit a portion of lacerated intestine protruded. Several pieces of broken bone, were found in the wound, of which one — a fragment of the crest of ilium — was not less than 9 cm. in length. Further, in the middle of the outer side of the left leg, there was a lacerated wound, but without any lesion of the bone. Besides the wound of the intestines just mentioned several other parts were found to be wounded; to suture all of them would have taken much time to the neglect of other patients, so the intestines wore, for the present, cleansed and returned to their proper place, until .the time could be given for proper treatment. The wound of the abdominal walls was also simply cleansed witli an application of antiseptic dressing, and then strict rest was ordered. The mind of the patient having had no change at all from the beginning of the wound, conversation was as sound as usual; to alleviate the constant and intense pains in the abdomen, morphine was repeatedly injected. There was also a desire to pass urine but without effect; so a catheter was introduced but only blood came out. It was thus evident that the bladder was injured too. At 4 o'clock in the afternoon, that is, eiglit hours after the wounds, he died of collapse. 174. —Perforating wound of linnbar region with compound fracture of the right thigh :—T. Ishikawa, aged 22, a male nurse of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was assisting in an operation on a wounded man in the surgery on the rear of the lower deck, when a hostile shell of 30.5 cm. burst against the mizzeu mast in that place. He sustained a perforating wound from some of the splinters, passing from the loins to the abdomen and crushing the lumbar verteblae; and a com- pound fracture at the middle of the right femur. He died from great hajmorrhage and shock. 175. —Mutilation of abdominal wall with compound fracture of right thigh :—K. Yoshioka, aged 26, one of the crew of a torpedo of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was shot through the abdominal wall by a shell that dashed into the torpedo room, the abdominal wall being so mutilated that the intestines protruded. Besides this, he sustained a compound fracture of the right femur. He was instantly taken to the surgery on the fore part of the upper deck (the surgery on the lower desk had already been destroyed) and was undergoing an operation.