94 INJURIES OF THE FACE. retina Avas discovered, and the disc presented an irregular square sbaps, and in its neighbourhood retinal haemorrhage had taken place. On the nasal side of the disc both detachment and haemorrhage were more marked. The sight was so far destroyed that light could not be distinguished from darkness. As to the treatment of the eyes, leeches were applied on the temples in addition to the measures already mentioned. In October the congestion of the eyes gi-eatly abated but without signs of the sight being restored. By the 13th of October, all the abrased wounds had nearly healed by scabbing, with the exception of the lacerated wound of the knee which was however now growing a favourable granulation. In order to promote the absorption of the effusions in the eyes, hypodermic injection of pilocarpine and internal use of iodide of potassium were tried. On the 28th, the injured man was removed to the Kure Naval Hospital, where the lesion of the knee progressed favourably, and at last healed by cicatrization on February lOtli, 1895. The symptoms of irritation in the eyes had entirely disappeared so that congestion and pains would probably not come again, yet both eyes were blinded without any hope of recovery. The injured man was there- fore invalided for life on the 11th April, and granted a pension according to the regulations. 108.—Contusion of the right eye with lacerated wound of the right arm :—T. Sato, aged 27, Chief Navigating Officer of tlie Akagi. In the battle of the Yellow sea, he stood on the middle of the bridge commanding the movements of the vessel in lieu of the Captain who had just been killed, when a shell came by the stern and struck the after netting on the starboard side of the bridge. By some of the iron and wooden fragments thus broken off, he sustained injuries to the right eye and arm. Conditions of the wounds :—there was a small and superficial abrasion on the right upper lid attended by the congestion of the ocular conjunctiva and pain, which prevented the lid from opening. However, no marked injury was recognized in the eye- ball. On the outer side of the middle part of the right upper arm, there was a flap- sliaped lacerated wound of 3 cm. in length and 1 cm. in depth, at its bottom there could be seen a piece of black cloth ; and the wound bled freely. Besides, an oval- shaped abrasion, 5 cm. in diameter was found below the last named wound. The foreign body in the wound was extracted, antiseptic dressing was applied ; and to the right eye, a compress of boracic lotion. Then the injured officer went back straight to his post. The next day the eye bandagewas removed and the right eye examined. There was blood effusion in the anterior chamber so that the lower half of the cornea