CONTUSED WOUND. 302 Contused wounds caused by tlie fall produced by shock of a shell striking an iron ■wall near by, were inflicted in the left liypochondriac region and in the left calf. The shock made him unconscious, but when he came to himself, the wounds were dressed and he resumed his duty. After a little while another shell exploded on the lower deck in the fore part, setting a large amoant of the gun powder on fire, and he was again thrown down, and struclc by a shell-fragment on the back of the parietal region, and he sustained a small contused wound. Tlie latter was cured in a few days, while those ou the hypochondrium and the calf suppurated, and were at last healed after seven weeks. (No. 138.) Besides this, there were cases of small contused wounds on the lumbar and iliac region.s and in the front of the right ear. The number of the contused wounds caused by the fall conse- quent to shock is 5, and the wounds produced by this cause are only contused wounds and contusions. Of Ihese, the latter are by far the more numerous as ah'eady stated, amounting to 73.68 per cent of the united number, and the former were only, 26.32 per cent. It is natural that contusions should occupy so large a space, for the con- tused wound is produced only, when one happens to fall on an object havinsr acute edsres. (7) Contused wounds owing to compression and collision Avere two ; one was a case of crushed finger caused by tumbling down from the shock of the firing, the other n case of contused wound of the fingers from colliding with the keen edges of a hole made by a shell in the ship's side. As has been stated, the entire number of contused wounds were 184, which proportioned to 629, the total number of various kinds of wounds, bear a ratio of 29.25 per cent, thus standing the highest among all kinds of injuries. And if we classify these 184, their causes will be as follows :—97 Avounds from shell frag- ments ; 25 from metal pieces ; 23 from Avooden splinters ; 20 from unknown material Avhether shell fragments, iron or wooden pieces ; 5 from being thrown down by shock ; 12 either from iron pieces or