]NJUEIES OF THE UPPER EXTEEMITY. 147 improved, the pus discharge decreased, aud on November 3rd, it had healed by cicatrix. 214. —Contused wound of the right fore-arm:—M. Kawamnra, aged 24, a guncrew on the Katsuragi, in the course of the bombardment of the eastern fort of Liukung Island, sustained a contused wound on the back part of the upper third of right fore-arm by one of the splinters of Avood caused by the breaking of the ship's planks by a hostile shell. In the course of a few days the wound suppurated, and the temperature rose to 38°. 1 C, so the dressing Avas changed daily, and in a few days more, the temperature became normal, the inflammation around the Avound subsided and on March 18th, cicatrix formed. 215. —T. Takata, aged 21, a guncrew of the Katsuragi, in the course of the bombardment of the eastern forts of Liukung Island, had just rotated the fore- revolving gun, Avhen, oAving to the shock caused by a hostile shell knocking the barrel of the gun, he Avas thrown down, and at the same moment he Avas struck by a Avoodeu splinter and sustained a shallow wound on the back of the upper part of the right fore-arm. Besides, he complained of pain on the right side of the chest in breathing, where he had received a blow Avhen thrown down, but no physical signs Avere found on examination. A corrosive gauze, to the Avouud was applied and the patient order- ed to rest. On the 21st, the Avound had completely healed forming union under a scab. 216. —Contused wound of the right fore-arm and contusion of the face:— S. Hamanishi, aged 24, a seaman of the Yoshino, in the attack of the eastern forts of Liukung Island, was standing on the fort of No. 6 3-pounder above the port nett- ing on the quarter deck, when a shell hit the shield of that gun, and some of the broken pieces of the shield, inflicted a contused AVound on the face and another on the right fore-arm. On examination, the left cheek and the tip of the nose had their skin abrased and swollen, the left eye-lids Avere strikingly swollen and the conjunction congested. Besides this on the inner side of the lower third of the right fore-arm, there was a contused wound some 2 5 cm. in length, Avhich had irregularly lacerated margins and reached the sub-cutaneous tissue. An antiseptic bandage was applied, and next day the patient was removed to the hospital ship Kobe-maru. The abrased surfaces of the face gradually healed, the swelling of the eye lids subsiding at the same time. The wound of the fore-arm presented no signs either of suppuration or inflammation. The face Avas protected Avith a bandage and the fore-arm dressed with