172 INJURIES OF THE LOAVER EXTREMITY-. the ■wound liad liealed witli cicatrix, and the patient left the Ijospital to return to service. 257.--Perforating wound of the right thigh with contusion of the chest:—N. Tabako, aged 29, one of gun-crew of the Tenryn, in the course of the l)orabardinent of the Eastern forts of Linlamg Island, was standing nnder the star- board booms on the waist of the npper deck, when a hostile shell exploded striking the. gun-gear of No. 2 side-gun on the port side. By one of the shell-fragments, he was pierced through the soft tissues from the outer side to the inner of the lower third of the right thigh. The entrance wound had an irregular triangular shape, 3 c. m. at base, and about 2 c. m. at each side ; the exit wound was irregularly lacerated in vertical lines being 3 c. m. in length. Out of the exit wound^ shell- fragments were seen exposing themselves, which being extracted, one was found to be 3.6 c. m. in length, 1 c. m. in width, and the other to be 3 cm. long and 1.5 c. m. wide (the wound and the fragments are shown in the illustration). Htemor- rhage was slight. Over the 3rd and the 4th ribs in front of the right side of the chest was found a subcutaneous extravasation about the size of the palm which was very swollen and painful, there was also a slight hfemoptysis, but no lesion was found of the ribs. The wound of the thigh was washed with carbolic lotion and a drainage tube introduced, followed by the application of a sublimate ganze bandage ; and to the chest was applied a lead lotion. The patient was removed to the hospi- tal-ship Kobe-maru. At night, cough became frequent, attended by a pain in the right side of the chest at deep inspii'ation. The patient was ordered to keep quiet and an anodyne mixture was administered. On the 14th, the wound of the thigh suppurated, presenting sloughs at the bottom, so the latter were scraped off, and iodoform gauze was applied. Pain in the chest and bloody expectoration still did not subside, and a crepitation was heard in the right lung. The former prescrip- tion continued. On the 20th, he was conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Examined then, the wounds of the right thigh were found still to communicate with each other, and the canal was already beginning to develope healthy granulation, with slight pus discharge. Pain in the chest and cougliing still existed, but the bloody expectoration had ceased, and on physical examination of tlie chest no abnor- mality was found in the lungs, heart, nor pleura. To the wounds of the thigh a drainage tube was introduced and they were dressed with carbolic gauze. On March the 2nd, the canal of the wound on tlie thigh became narrow and filled with granu-