•207 BQENS. c. m. in length and 6 or 7 c. m. in width with some healthy gniniilations. Following the above treatment, a dressing of lint soaked in boracic acid solation was used and iron and quinine given intervaliy. At intervals the affected parts evacuated large quanties of pus, wliich infecting the newly formed epidermis would retard its growtli thus constantly checking what otherwise would have been steady improvement. On August tiie 12tii of the same year, the burned parts on the right leg at last were perfectly covered with epidermis, and on the 23rd following the burn on t'lu left leg, was healed. On September the 30th, the burn on the inner side of the left arm was covered with epidermis. However, on the outer side of the lower part of the left arir., and thigh there were still broad ulcerated surfaces. The same treatment was pursued. About July or August of 189G, as the ulcerated surfaces had now no discharge of pus, skin grafting was repeatedly performed upon them; and on December 25th of the same year all the i-emaining surfaces of the burns were healed, having been entirely covered with epidermis. As has been stated, this case was one of the burns afflicting one-third of the body, and took more than two years to recover. He was now extremely emaciat- ed and disfigured by ugly cicatrices all over the body :—a cicatrix extending from the forehead to the left temporal region with the loss of both external ears; two or three small cicatrices on the back ; as to the left upper limb, a large cicatrix extending from the middle of the upper arm to the forearm and hand, as the consequence of the cicatricial contraction, the elbow joint was hindered in its movement, so that it could only be moved between 45° and 90°; the grasping power of the left fingers was almost entirely lost; as regards the lower extremities the whole of the left gluteal region, almost the whole exterior sides of the left thigh and leg, a part of the right gluteal region and almost the entire length of the inner side of ti^e right leg presented white dotted cicatrices; both knee-joints crooked at 90°; the feet somewhat inverted, and the phalangeal joints partly flexed and could not be freely moved. Moreover, the extensors of the lower limbs being remarkably emaciated, the man could scarcely stand up with the help of a stick ; tonics and nutritious measures were especially attended to, assisted by hot batlis, electricity, sliampooing, etc., and thus the general strength was regained a little, but the movements of the limbs could not be restored, therefore the patient was discharged, on January 22nd, 1897, from service and pensioned for life according to the regulations. (Of the two illustrations produced here, one is a picture from life at the time of injury, and the other is a collotype from the photogragh taken after recovery).