INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 199 was found. The fragment was extracted and antiseptic dressing applied. On October 1st, the patient returned to service. 304. —Compound fracture of the left foot with contused wounds of the head, face and thighs :—While B. Sato, aged 24, a seaman belonging to tlje Amagi, was firing upon an enemy's ship fi-om the fort of Liucho-tsai, Wei-hai-wei, on January 30th, 1895, a shell struck the barrel of the gun, and exploded, knocking the gun to pieces. Some of tlie shell-fragments caused several wounds, viz:—A lacerat- ed wound over the vertex, 6 cm. long, 1 cm. wide, reaching the pericranium and piercing the occipito-frontalis ; a lacerated wound 3 cm. long and 1 cm. wide run- ning transversely from the right side of the upper lip below the nose, several grains of powder also penetrated into the skin of the face ; an oval-shaped lacerated wound, 12 cm. long and 7 cm. Avide, extending from the inner and upper side of the left thigh to its posterior part; a lacerated wound, 7 cm. long, on the posterior surface of the lower third of the right thigh, compound fracture of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd toes of the left foot. The wounds were simply dressed on the spot, and on the 31st the Avounded man Avas conveyed to the 2nd field hospital belonging to the 6tli Army Division. At the hospital, gangrene of the great, 2nd, 3rd and 4tli toes of the left foot set in, so on the lOtli of February amputation by Lisfranc's method Avas per- formed. By the 16tli the lacerated wounds on the head and face cicatrized, and those of the thighs developed healthy granulation. On tlie 2oth as the stump of the left foot had nearly united, tlje sutures Avere removed and the foot was dressed Avith iodoform gauze. On the 28th, the patient was transferred to the provisional army hospital at Hiroshima. After a time, the Avonnds of the right and left thighs healed by granulation, but the amputated part of the left foot, had formed a sinus in its middle, Avhich constantly discharged slight pus. On May 16th, the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. At this time, the sinus of the foot was 1 cm. in depth, still discharging slight pus. It AA^as Avashed Avith carbolic lotion, iodoform sprinkled on, and tonclied occasionally Avith nitrate of silver. By July 5th, the Avound was completely healed, but owing to the loss of the toes of his left foot he Avas lame. HowcA^er with a protecting bandage, he was ordered to take suitable exercise; the general strength gradually returned, and the cicatrix of the Avound became firm. On October 23rd, he AA'as discharged from ser\'ice for life, and granted a pension according to the regulations. 305. —Blind wounds of the right foot and thigh:—F. Hioki, aged 25,