CONTUSED WOUXD. 294 intact. Besides this, tlie man sustained a blind wound in the back. The patient was clear and firm in mind without any sign of cerebral concussion. On the next day, the resection of the left knee joint was performed and he was on the 21st. admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time of admission the part below the knee joint was cold and numb, and the foot had already become gangrenous. Therefore the amputation at the lower part of tlie thigh was performed, and the wound was completely healed in January of the following year. (No. 270.) 3rd instance :—This was a contused wound 2 cm. long on the outer side of the lower end of the left upper arm from an iron fragment. The wound reached the bone giving a little depression Avith superficial fissures in it. No foreign body was lodged within. After 3 or 4 days, the margins of the wound sloughed off and the wound was soon healed. (No. 206.) 4th instance :—A contused wound on the iimer side of the upper part of the right leg. The margins of the wound were torn and gaping ; at the bottom the periosteum of the tibia was detaclied, and beneath it several fissures of some 2 cm. long were produced. After a time, loose pieces of the bone were extracted from the wound of the leg, after whicli the wound made due progress and was healed in 2 months. (No. 286.) 5th instance :—The foreliead was struck by a fragment of a gun-shield broken by a hostile shell, and the posterior half of the bone was smashed, the brain substance being at the same time destroyed. This case Avas accompanied with the mutilation of the left forearm. The injured man was killed on the spot. (No. 46.) 6th instance :—From the same cause as the above, the forehead was smashed resulting in instant death. (No. 50.) 7tli instance :—A small contused wound, just above the internal condyle of the right humerus. The wound measured about 1.5 cm. in depth ; the margins were peeled off the fascia for 8 cm. in the form of a bag ; the bone and the ulnar nerve were found safe, but afterwards the parts supplied by the nerve, that is ; the palmar and ulnar sides of the riglit ring finger, the whole of the little finger, and the inner border of the palm were affected with loss of motion and sensation. The wound was healed in 5 weeks, but the )nnnbnes3 and paralysis of the fingers lingered 3 weeks more. This was probably due to the contusion of the ulnar nerve. (No. 200.) Contused wounds caused by iron-pieces were 25 Avhich, propor-