BLTXD AXn PEXE'l'KATIXG WOUNDS. 324 a course obliquely downward, breaking the 10th rib. It was plain that the shell-fragment had fallen into the abdominal cavity, from the flxct that intense pain was complained of in the abdomen on the following day, resulting in a serious peritonitis ; and from the pre- sence of bloody expectorations, which shewed that the lung must have suffered more or less injury. Wliat abdominal organs were injured, is not certain, but the intestines were certainly hurt, for there existed signs to the effect. This is therefore another instance of injury to abdominal organs, which did not result in instant death. (2) Blind and penetrating wounds caused by iron pieces. These wounds numbered 12 occurring in 10 persons, of Avhich cases of some interest are as follows : 1st example :—One of the fragments of a fannel broken by a shelJ, inflicted a lacerated wound 6 cm. long and 2 cm. wide, on the right side of the chest extending from the 7th to the 9th rib near the median line. It measured 2 cm. in depth re- taining an iron-piece at its bottom, which partially protruding beyond the Avound orifice, was extracted by the injured person. The bottom of the wound reached the costal cartilage without injuring it, and the Avound was healed in 4 weeks. (No. 140.) 2nd example :—From the same cause, a blind wound below the outer part of the right clavicle Avas received. The wound orifice Avas 2 cm. in vertical diameter, 1.5 cm. in lateral diameter and G cm. in depth, the canal took an upward course, and an iron-piece was recognised wedged into the clavicle. Avhich, being extracted, proved to be of an irregular square shape 2 cm. long, 1 cm. Avide, and 3 m.m. thick. The clavicle Avas found only partially broken, not completely separated. The wound was healed in 9 Aveeks. (No. 189.) 3rd example :—At the same moment with the last, a blind wound was inflicted by an iron-piece, Avhich extended from the left side of the nape to the base of the skull. By this the brain Avas injured, and the man died on the spot. (No. 60.) 4th example :■—-By a shell, both thighs were mutilated at the middle, and aboA'e the mutilated part of the right thigh another lacerated wound 5 cm. long was sustained in which was retained a large fragment of a stanchion, 13 cm. long and 7 cm. in diameter. The man died after a short time from the shock. (No. 264.)