163 INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTllEMITr. The 2uci aiul 3rd phalanges of the left index-finger were found smashed, the soft tissues also destroyed, so that the finger hardly remained connected by a healtliy part on its ulnar side. With the burned surfaces, the sldu was turned black, blisters appearing here and there and sloughs at some places; especially the upper part of the left ear wliicli was deeply burned. The left index-finger Avas cut away at tiie 2ud joint, the flap sutured and then covered with sublimate gauze. Cloths wet with a boracic solution were applied to the burns. On October 11th, the Imrns were all cured but leaving a loss of tissue in the upper part of the lobe of the left ear. Tlie amputated stump of the index-finger partly suppurated, so being cut open was washed with carbolic lotion and covered with carbolic gauze. On December 22nd, the amputated stump formed cicatrix, but on account of pain in the stiuup, the injnred hand could not be used, so a protecting bandage was applied. On account of his inability for duty owing to the loss of the left index-finger, he was dismissed from the service for life and left the hospital on March tlie 16th, 1895, and is pensioned according to the regulations. 242.—Crushed wound of the right index and middle fingers :— S. Okano, aged 22, one of gun-crew of the Takachilio in the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing on the fort of No. 4 gun on the port side of the waist-deck, when he had the right index and middle fingers seized between the gun-gears. Both fingers were crushed away from the base of the 2nd phalanges, and left hanging by a part of the flexor tendons. The wounds were ragged and bleeding, the ends of the crushed bones protruding. The soft tissues hanging down were cut off, the sharp ends of th, bones pared, and hiTemorrliage checked ; then the wounds were closed with antiseptic bandages. The patient was sent back by a transport starting for home on the 19th and was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. Some days after, a swelling ensued, extending from the injured fingers up to the back of the hand accom- panied by a pain which prevented his sleeping ; and the broken ends of the phalanges still remained exposing themselves at the wounds, so on the 27th both the index and middle lingers were amputated at the distal extremities of the 1st phalanges. The margins of the wounds were sutured and antiseptic bandages applied. On October 2nd, the swelling of the back of the hand and pain entirely disappeared ; the threads being cut aAvay, a little serum mixed with blood came out of the stitch-holes but no pus was seen. Dry sublimate gauze was applied. On the 4th, the sutured wounds accomplished the primary union, and simply a protecting bandage was made use of.