200 INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. one of a gun-crew of the Akitsusliima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was stand- ing behind the No. G Hotchlciss gun, in the port waist of the upper deck, when a shell exploded against the shield of No. 5 starboard side-gun. Some of the shell fragments inflicted a lacerated wound on the outer and back part in the lower third of the right thigh, which measured 5 cm. in depth, and retained a shell-fragment at the bottom, which was extracted ; on the dorsum of the right foot, between the 3rd and 4th toes, was a lacerated wound 2 cm. in length, and 5 cm. in depth, running in- wards and backwards, which had broken the 1st and 2ud metatarsal bones. The wounds were dressed with antiseptic precautions and the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. On the 22nd, the wound on the dorsum of the foot was enlarged, the anterior half of the 1st and 2nd metatarsals were cut off, and three small shell fragments taken oat. Antiseptically treated, progress was favorable. On October 30th, the wound of the thigh formed cicatrix, and on December 17th, that of the foot was closed. Owing, however, to the loss of the anterior half of the 1st and 2nd metatarsals, walking was imperfect, so he was dismissed from service for life and pensioned according to the regulations. ■ (G) INJURIES OF THE TOES. 306. —Contused wound of the right toe :—0. Hayakawa, aged 22, one of a gun-crew of the Hashidate, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was working at the bow-gun, when a well-directed shell burst against the inner wall of the shield of that gun. One of the shell fragments caused a contused wound on the right 2nd toe, 1 cm. long, running laterally over the 1st joint reaching to the periosteum, but with- out injuring the bone. During treatment, inflammation set in in the 1st joint, and walking became difficult, so the patient was, on December 26th, transferred to the Knre Naval Hospital. At the time, the injured toe had a granulating surface, and the joint was stiffened, attended by pain. Wet carbolic compress was applied. On January 19th, 1895, he returned to service completely cured. 307. —Contused wound of the left toe U. Kamei, aged 23, one of a gun- crew of the Fuso, during the attack on Zhili Island, February 7th, 1895, was resting on the bollard head on the starboard forecastle, when a hostile shell burst, piercing the gallant-forecastle. A shell-fragment inflicted a contused wound on the great and 2nd toes of the left foot; the tip of the great toe was swollen on account of subcu- taneous extravasation and the skin over it was cracked ; the tip of the 2nd toe was