64 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. the Yellow sea, be was engaged in firing No. 8 gun on the port side of the quarter deck, when a shell pierced the ship's side just behind the port bole of No. 7 gun. A wooden splinter inflicted an abrasion, 2 cm. long, just above the external occipital pro- tuberance. The wound was dusted with iodoform, dressed with corrosive gauze, and healed by scabbing in a few days. 34. —Contused wound of the forehead :—H. Sagara, aged 32, senior car- penter of the Matsushima. In the battle of the Yellow sea, while on duty as one of the fire brigade, he was passing the fore part of the lower deck, when a 80.5 cm. shell exploded against the shield of No. 4 gun on the port side of the lower deck, one of the fragments inflicted a contused wound about 2 cm. in diameter on the middle part of the forehead. In depth it reached to the periosteum, but the bone was not injured. After temporary dressing in the vessel, he was admitted on the 20th of the month, to Sasebo Naval Hospital, when granulation had already commenced so as to cover the surface of the periosteum without formation of pus, an antiseptic bandage was applied ; the wound healed favourably and he was discharged on the 22nd of October to resume service. 35. —Y. Tanaka, Sub-Lieutenant of the Hiyei, aged 26. In the battle of the Yellow sea, a shell exploded in the ward-room and set the aft lower deck on fire. He was commanding the fire brigade near the stern battery, at the time when another shell broke through the starboard side of the stern, and one of the wooden fragments injured him with a contused wound on the right side of the forehead. As all the surgeons of the vessel had already been killed, he had to apply a bandage to the wound himself; first medical aid he received was from the surgeon of another vessel when the Hiyei arrived next morning at the rendezvous, near Cape Choppeki. There was an irregular contused wound on his forehead, a little to the right of the median line, which did not injure the muscle or bone ; carbolic gauze was applied. On the 30th of the month, the surface of the wound was wholly covered with skin, but the epidermis was still thin and delicate, an elastic collodion was applied to the part and by October 12th it had completely healed. 36. —Contused wound of the forehead with abrasion of both forearms : —K. Kurokawa, one of the crew of No. 7 side-gun of the Matsushima, aged 26 years, 9 months. At the time of the engagement ofi" the Haiyang islands, on September 17th, 1894, he was standing near to the starboard No. 7 gun on the fore part of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. shell exploded against the shield of the starboard No. 4 gnn