DRINKING WATEE. 516 Kongo made 15 tons each, the Hiyei and Chiyoda each about 10 tons; the Takao, Tsukushi, Musashi, Yamato and Katsuragi 5 or 6 tons, which were pure enough for drinking purposes, and all in the same length of time. But on the three ships Matsushima, Itsukushima, and Hashidate, the distilled quantity which was 5 or 6 tons in 24 hours was small in proportion to the number of men on board. It was however ample for drinking purposes, but it was very fru- gally used for washing, and they had sometimes to get a supply of fresh water from land for miscellaneous use. The Fuso being unable to make distilled water pure and sufficient for use, suffered inconveni- ence for a time, but afterwards resorting to a donkey-boiler for distillation, they were able to make 4 or 5 tons of pure water in 24 hours, which amount was enough for drinking purposes. With regard to the Yayeyama, Tenryu, Kaimon, Amagi, Banjo, Oshima, Akagi, Maya, Chokai, Atago, and some others, having no donkey-boiler, they had to distil direct from the main-boiler, and the water thus obtained had an oily smell, with sometimes a saline taste, and the quantity distilled was insufficient. The ship that suffered most from want of drinking water was the Akitsushima. The distil- ling apparatus of that ship is of the Normandy type, but owing to circumstances, one boiler could not be appropriated specially for distilling purposes, and pure water was difficult to get. Consequently, she had to resort to transports, land, or other ships for drinking water. In this ship, except for drink, water had to be very frugally rationed to officers and men, and there were times when not more than a cupful was given for a day to each officer and man for washing. The report furnished by Assistant Surgeon I. Yamashma of the Akitsushima says :—" Tlie thing we greatly suffered from during the late war was the lack of drinking water. Distillation in our ship had to be performed by directly conducting the steam of the main-boilers into a Normandy distilling apparatus ; and us