INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 188 joint also was somewhat swollen accompanied with pain. The wound was dressed Avith sublimate gauze, and the patient was ordered to rest. To tlie back of the knee lead lotion was applied. By the .26th following, the swelling of the knee had entirely subsided, so that he could now walk freely but the lacerated skin of the wound on the calf turned grayish black in a sloughing condition, with pus discharge from the bottom. The former dressing was replaced by wot carbolic bandage. By March 10th, the skin had sloughed off, the surface of the wound cleaned and the pus discharge ceased. Iodoform was sprinkled on ; and on April 2nd, the wound was perfectly healed by cicatrix. 278. —Contused wound of the left leg :—S. Takarabe, aged 27, a gunner of the Tsukushi, in the course of the attack on the eastern forts of Zhih Island, was standing behind the machine gun, in the port waist of the upper deck, when a shell came from the port side and pierced through the lower part of the fnnnel. One of the iron fragments inflicted a contused wound 3 c. m. long 1 c. m. wide running laterally 8 c. m. above and behind the external malleolus of the left leg. The skin and muscles were fouud lacerated, with irregular margins and its depth reached to the fibula, attended by profuse luemorrhage. The bleeding was stopped, the foreign body extracted, and the wound dressed with sublimate gauze. On the 5th following, the patient was taken on board the transport Yedo-marn; and admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 10th. At the time, tlie wound was still so deep as to allow the insertion of the index-finger which could touch the periosteum of the fibula, there was also a great discharge of pus. In March, granulation developed so as to fill the wound, and at the end of the mouth the wound cicatrized. But owing to the adhesion of the cicatrix to ths fibula, and consequent pressure of the part, the dorsum of the foot developed a slight swelling, but without pain. By the use of local hot bathing and massage, it gradually subsided, and on ilay 3rd, he returned to duty, perfectly healed. 279. —Lacerated wound of the right leg with perforated wound of the left thigh :—H. Ono, aged 21, a signalman on the Matsushima, in the course of the engagement of the Yellow sea, was in the waist of the fiying-deck engaged in signahing, when a hostile shell exploded on the said deck. Some of the shell frag- ments inflicted a wound with loss of substance on the right calf, and a perforating wound at the lower part of the left thigh. Conditions of the wounds :—Both the skin and muscles on the back of the right leg, Avere so mutilated that only the