405 ■lEEATMENT OF THE WOUNDED. -Not to mention that mucli time was required in changing the dressings, the sufferings of j)atients while being washed with antiseptic solution were extreme. Lastly, on one ship, it happened that owing to the loss of surgical dressings &c., and the consequently insufficient application of antiseptics, the burns soon suppurated. This is another point on which we have to pursue further investigations. The chief antiseptic that was used in the hospitals, was a solution of carbolic acid, some- times of corrosive sublimate, and of boracic acid, also iodoform in a very few instances. The dressinofs were made to be aJwavs sterilized before use, and at the same time great care was taken with antiseptic precau- tions, yet it was not an easy matter to eradic:ite the suppuration of the Avound, and consequently the course of the wounds was general- ly slow, and a comparatively large number of days was required for treatment. As was shown by No. 21 table in chapter iii, the number of days' sickness was 15,880 for So-f wounded persons, which is the total of the days' sickness both on ships and in hospitals. This gives a ratio of 62j days for each wounded man. If 27 patients who died from serious wounds within 3 days after injury, and 17 patients who were cured within 3 days as their wounds were slight, be subtracted, and the days of sickness for the remainder be counted, the average for each patient will become 21 months which shows that the number of days' sickness was strikingly high in the late war. This is because the nature of a shell-wound is different from that of other wounds and is very hard to cure. Ten soldiers from the army who had received bullet wounds in the Pescadores were admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital, and we treated them in exactly the same way as the other patients, and took the opportunity of comparing the respective cura- bility, of bullet and shell wounds. \V'^e found that there was a striking difference between the two, even when the wounds were quite