222 FROST-BITE. Loracic lotion and dressed with wet boi-acic gauze. The tempevatare rose to 37"^.6 C. On the 8th, the face became oedematous, and the forehead sUghtly suppurated, the temperature indicated 38° C. Dressing was clianged. On the 13th, the affected pai'ts having almost entirely cast off the epidermis exposed the true skin wluch discharged copiously, but the temperature oscillated between 37°.5 C. and 37°.G C. Ou the 20th, tlie patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time of his admission, the scalded parts were denuded of epidermis actually forming ulcers ■with discbarge. The former treatment was continued. On the 27th, pus discliarge began to diminish greatly, and new epidermis developed from the margins of the scald. Boracic ointment was substituted. By March 8th, the epidermis completely formed over the scalded surfaces, but the cicatrix presented here and tliere a keloid appeai'- ance. In the middle of April, patches of a red-brown colour appeared on the face ; and a small cicatrix on the inner canthus of each eye, and keloid cicatrices were formed on the back of hands and fingers, inner and outer sides of the right leg, so that an ugly appearance was left in these parts. However, the limbs and other parts being,sound in their function, he returned to service on May 6th. 366. —Scald of the right leg :—E- Elju, aged 30, a stoker of the same boat as above sustained scald of 1st degree in the lower third of the right leg. He was res- cued by No. 19 torpedo boat and transferred on board the mother ship Omi-maru. He was dressed by the surgeon of the mother ship with olive oil and sublimate gauze. The scalded parts dried without suppuration and completely healed on the 11th of the same month. ll.-FROST-BITE. 367. —Death by extreme cold:—K. Okimoto, aged 32, a seaman of the No. 22 torpedo boat, on February 4th, 1895, availing herself of the depth of night, the boat attempted to enter the port of Wei-hai-wei and made an attack on the hostile vessels. On her way back, at 5 a. m. she ran aground just below the fort of Liubyoshi so firmly that floating her off was hopeless. The crew therefore got ou a lifeboat and were making for the land when the boat capsized. Falling into the sea, he swam ashore and reached the occupied fort of Lokkakuslii, but the time being the coldest season, he was frozen to death before medical relief could be afforded.