178 INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. ed two contused wounds on the right popliteal region ; the upper one was 5 c. m. and the lower 2 c. m. in length, both were of snbcutaneons depth attended by a slight hjEmorrhage. Also on the calf of right leg a snbcutaneons extravasation was present. To the contused wounds of the knee sublimate gauze was applied and to the leg wet carbolic compress. On the 23rd he was removed on board a transport bound for home, and admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 26th. At this time, the wounds of the popliteal space were slightly suppurating, and pain at the knee-joint gave him ranch difficulty in walking. The swelling and extravasation of the calf had not abated yet. The former treatment was continued. On the SOtli the lower wound of the popliteal region formed scabs, and that day the patient was removed to the Kure Naval Hospital. In due course of time the swelling and extravasation on the calf subsided and the wounds of the popliteal region were healed by the beginning of November. However pain was still felt at the knee-joint on walking and, from about the 13th of the same month, a pain was felt at the ankle on the same side, with slight swelling after standing a long time. Tincture of iodine was painted over the part, and the limb kept in an iron-splint. On the 22ud he left the hospital perfectly recovered and returned to duty. 269.—Contused wounds of the left knee and scalp with rupture of right tympanic membrane •■—K. Tawara, aged 35, Chief Surgeon on board the Saikyo-maru, in the battle of the Yellow sea, had finished his inspection of the preparations for the conveyance of the wounded and was going down the middle starboard hatch of the upper deck, when a 30. 5 c. m. shell entered from the star- board beam, pierced through the ward-room on the upper deck, passed about 3 feet from him, and exploded on the larboard side of the ward-room about 6 feet to his left. He was struck on the head by some of the scattering fragments of shell and splinters, and in addition, owing to the shock of explosion he was thrown down upon a step of the hatch, and received contusion of the left knee and rupture of the right tympanic membrane ; and his uniform was torn like rags. Conditions of the wounds:—The injury on the head was a crescent-like ■ contused wound, 3 c. m. long, extending over the left temporo-parietal suture. It was as deep as the periosteum and attended by a slight liEemorrhage, with but little pain. In the centre of the left patella a round contused wound, some 8 m. m. in diameter, was found, and by probing a depression on the surface of the bone was felt. Haemorrhage and pain were not marked. Iodoform gauze was applied, and