ENTERIC FEVEK. 428 It is often the case with fevers and especially with infectious diseases that their origin can not be traced. Tlie fever under consideration was especially difficult to diagnose, as it was not attended with the typical symptoms, but was very ambiguous- ly complex. From the time of leaving the port of Kagoshima on September 9th, no person on board the ship went ashore \intil the 5th December, excepting the landing party that occupied Takau on October loth, and some official messengers. It is true that the ship took in drinking water at Kagoshima and Oshima. But at these places, no sooner had the ship arrived than inquiry was made as to the state of the local health, which was found to be quite satisfactory. As to the nature of the water taken in, only a qualitative examination was made, but there could be no reason for entertain- ing any doubt about tlie wholesome nature of the water, for at Kagoshima, the water was not only tlie source of supply to the inhabitants, but to all vessels that call at the port. At Oshima the water was obtained from the reservoirs kept for the special use of the ships belonging to the Navy. Besides, the entire water taken in was spent in 3 days, from which date only distilled water was used. As regards provisions, they consisted almost entirely of preserved meats, and it only rarely happened that chickens, eggs, vegetables, fruits, etc., were purchased from the natives of Formosa. These were chiefly in demand among 'the officers, tlie seamen receiving only a pittance of fresh meat and vegetables, and that but once in a long wliile. Thus notwithstanding the fact that the whole crew on board lived in the same place and took the same water, all the officers Avere quite free from the disease, the only sufferers, with the exception of 2 petty officers, being men. We are convinced that this was probably in part due to the nature of their occupations, and in part to the lack of ability to take care of tliemselves. The first patient in the No. 3 temperature chart occurred later than October 7th, and the first case in the No. 5 chart, later than October 15th, and considering that they had not gone ashore after the ship's having weighed anchor at Kagoshima, we must suppose that these patients were infected in tlie latter place if we are to accept the presumption that it was enteric fever. (The first patient in the No. 7 chart had had an attack of enteric fever in June of the same year, he recovered in the following August). Granting this to be a case, the incuba- tion period is too long. From tlie investigation carried on with regard to the landing party at Takau, among 73 persons (3 officers included), 21 were attacked by the disease, but seeing that there were cases among the crew who did not set their foot on the shore before or after the landing of the said 73 persons, there is no reason to