BURNS. '201 crushed, exposing the ungual phalanx. The ungual digit of the 2nd toe was cut oif and the flap sutured up. By the 20th, both the flap of the 2nd toe and the skin over the tip of the great toe became gangrenous, discharging a foetid fluid, so the stitches were removed. On March 19th, as the granulating surfaces were dull, they were touched with nitrate of silver. In June the granulation became healthy, a new skin formed around, and on the 17th, cicatrix had completely formed. 9.-BURNS. (A) BUENS OF THE WHOLE BODY, AND OF THE GREATEE PAET OF THE BODY. 308. —Burns of the whole body :—T. Miura, aged 20, a seaman acting as an ammunition tender on the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was engaged in lifting ammunition at the entrance of the foreward magazine of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. shell of the enemy, after striking the shield of No. 4 port-gun burst, setting on Are the ammunition provided for the gun. The flame from the explosion burnt the whole body, and he died before medical relief could be afforded. 309. —Extensive burns covering two-thirds of the surface of the body: —D. Ozaki aged 29, a gunner on the Matsushima, during the battle of the Y'ellow sea, was firing No. 2 port-gun in the fore part of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. shell burst against the shield of No. 4 side-gun. It set on fire the ammunition piled near, resulting in an explosion which burned the entire surface of his body except- ing the chest, epigastric region, and inner parts of the thighs. The injured man was taken to a cabin and oiled lint applied to the burns. He was kept perfectly quiet, and brandy administered at intervals. Towards night the pain became intense and he complained of terrible thirst. Cold water was given frequently, and a stimulant and anodyne were alternately administered. On the morning of the 18tli he died from collapse. The following burns extending over two-thirds of the body were caused by the same accident on board the Matsushima ; the conditions of the injured, and the