PERFORATED WOU^^DS. 351 griiius like saiul ami the m iscles at tin floor of the mouth were rent asunder. The carotid sheath was exposed though the vessels escaped injury. The facial artery was crushed ytt without h.Eiuorrhage ; articulations and deglutition were extremely dif- :ficn]t. After a time, the tissues around the wound became sloughy ; and several of the broken pieces of the bone were discharged. The wound was cured in five months, but owing to the imperfect articulations and deglutition, the man was discharged from service. (No. 105.) The wound in the above instance was a perforating one produced hy a bullet, but being inflicted at a very short distance, accordingly its velocity or force being violent, the tissues of the wounded part were widely destroyed, so that the skin that will usually cover the wound canal was rent open producing a large gaping wound. This is an instance of the so-called explosive wound of bullet. When a part struck by a projectile having an extraordinary velocity, not only the pieces of broken bone but even the cells and liquids of the tissues being respectively imparted with a great momentum are prone to fly, therefore it is obvious that even a projectile so small as a bullet may sometimes do great damage as in the present case. As above mentioned, the total of perforating wounds was 38, and they may be attributed to four different causes viz :—light machine gun shots, shell-fragments, iron pieces, and bullets. These 38 cases in proportion to a total of 629 cases of vai'ious wounds, bear no larger ratio than 6.04 per cer;t, showing the rareness of this class of wounds as compared with gun-shot wounds. This is the main difference be- tween them and bullet wounds, for perforating wounds occupy the largest number in the latter class of wounds. .And the characters of the perforating wounds caused by sliell-fragments and iron pieces differ greatly from that of bullets. The perforating wounds by the shell-fragments, not mentioning the large size of the wound canal, have comparatively larger entrance holes than that of exits, while