284 ABRASED WOUNDS. (5) The guttei' wound :—(5 cases in all occurred in 6 persons, each caused by a slanting blow from a shell-fragment. 1st example :—The injured man sustained a wound 3 cm. long and 5 m.m. wide reaching the suhcutaneous tissues, running inwards and downwards at the part above the left patella and attended with a contusion of the tissues around the margins of the wound. (No. 253.) 2nd example :—The injured man received a wound 6 cm. in length, 4 cm. in width, and 1.5 cm. deep, on the back of the lower part of the left forearm. The margins of the wound were markedly contused, and the surface irregular. It was at last cured after treatment for 4 months. (No. 219.) 3rd example :—In this case the injured man received a wound 3 cm. long, 1 cm. wide, and 1 cm. in depth in the left parietal region running to the right and towards the back ; the margins were torn and ragged, and an irregular shell-fragment the size of a pea was lodged in the wound. It was healed after treatment for 3 weeks. (No. 43.) 4th example.—The injured man sustained a wound 3 cm. in length, 1.5 cm. in width and reaching the subcutaneous tissues, on the ulnar side of the upper third of the right forearm. The margins were bruised. It was completely healed after treat- ment for 3 weeks. (No. 218.) 5th example :—The injured man received a wound running laterally at the supra spinous region of the right scapula. It was 8 cm. in length and 3 cm. in depth, and the margins were sharp ; sutures were tried, but the wound suppurated and took 70 day.s to heal. (No. 191.) Gth example:—The injured man received a wound in the anterior surface of the lower third of the right arm. It had a length of 4 cm. and a width of 1.5 cm. and was 1.2 cm. in depth ; the margins were sharp, the bottom irregularly lacerated. The wound was healed after a month. (No. 203.) Each of the above 6 cases of gutter wounds had an irregularly lacerated surface with bruises around it, and there was not a single case which looked as if a slice had been made by a keen blade as is often the case Avith bullet-wounds. Accordingly, though hasmor-