141 INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY, 206. —Contused wound of the left upper arm with partial fracture of humerus :—Y. Koike, aged 27, Assistant Paymaster of tlm Tsnkusbi, at the time of tlie bombardmejit of Zhili Island, February 3rd, 1895, was engaged in recording the state of engagement, under tlie bridge on tlie larboard side of the upper deck, wlien a hostile shell came in from the port side and pierced through the lower part of the funnel. One of the broken pieces of the famiel inflicted a contused wound 2 cm. in length, on the outer side of the lower end of the left upper arm, 5 cm. above the elbow joint. The skin and muscles of the part were lacerated and the bone was slightly depressed. The passage of the Avound ran upward and backward 4 cm. along the surface of the bone forming a sinuous wound, which was attended with bleeding. Within the wound no foreign substance was found. Corrosive gauze was applied. On the 7th, the torn fiaps of the wound presented a grayish colour and suppurated a little. On the 15th, the sloughs Avere separated and the surface became clean and the granulation was healthy. By the 22nd, the wound became narrow and pus discharge ceased. Boracic ointment and a bandage were substituted. The case was completely cured on the 28th. 207. —Partial fracture of right humerus with glancing wounds of the head, face, limbs &C.:—M. Nagatomo, aged 19, a seaman of the Akitsushima, in the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was carrying shells to No. 5 side-gun, when a well-directed shell hit the shield of that gun and burst. Some of tlie shell fragments inflicted several wounds on the head, face, and upper and lower extremities. On ex- amination, three abrased wounds were found on the right parietal and occipital regions, one over the right frontal eminence and two on the right cheek ; each varying in size from that of a pea to the tip of tlie thumb ; on the median raphce of the upper lip a vertical lacerated wound was seen ; and the right half of the face was burned, grains of powder still remaining in numberless spots. On the outer side of the lower part of the right upper arm there was an oval lacerated wound, 5 cm. in length and 8 cm. in breadth, which reached the bone denuding the periosteum of the humerus and breaking the walls of the shaft, which, however, was found to be not entirely broken. Also on the back of the upper part of the right arm a contused wound, and three on the outer side of the right forearm were found, which were, however, all superficial, not reaching beyond the subcutaneous areolar tissues. Moreover, in the inner side of the left foot another abrased wound of the size of a 1 sen copper coin was found. All the wounds having been antiseptically treated, the patient v.'as conveyed to tlie Sasebo