43 THfc; BATTLE OV YALU. ceased entirely, atitl we proceeded to detailed operations. I jnay here remark though many shells struck aroniid the surgery, yet happily none of them exploded in the surgery, and so our operations were not hindered at all. Most of the wounds were caused by shell fragments, death being in many cases instantaneous; but none of the cases which came under treatment resulted in death. The wounds were mostly contused hicerations, sometimes accompanied by fractures. The edges of the wounds were often ragged, and at first not accompanied with much bleeding, as though the stopping of hoemorrhage had taken effect, but in a few hours, bleeding came on in several cases. Happily however the large blood vessels were in no case torn, though the surfaces of the wound were extensive. The method of treatment was uniform ;—that is, a strictly antiseptic method ; witli the Avouuds having regular edges ; sutures were tried ; with the deep, large, irregular ones, in which primary uuiou could not be expected, drainage tubes were introduced after adjusting the edges, and the wounds left open with blind wounds in which the inlets were all small, these Avere enlarged for the convenience of examining and extracting foreign bodies, and at tlie same time with a view to preventing any accumulation of the discharge afterwards. For probing the wounds for foreign bodies, fingers proved to be the best. The penetrating pieces of shell or iron, etc., were all irregular masses full of angles and apt to harm the sui*- rounding tissues whilst being extracted. In time of battle, men are greatly excited and full of spirit, so there were very few cases in Avhich an anoesthetic was needed. A violent shock was only found in one case of a wound in the chest. By noon of the 18th, the treatment of all the sufferers had been finished in a general way. Of the killed and wounded mentioned above, 11 were killed outright and 17 were injured. We then took the wardroom, as a temporary hospital, and serious cases were removed there. On examination the temperature showed a rise in every case and the margins of the wounds exhibited signs of inflammation. On the 19th the temperatures showed an inclination to go down. On the same afternoon, tlie bandages were changed, and 10 serious cases sent on board the Genkai-Maru for the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Tlie remains of the killed had on the 18th been cremated on land, when our sliip returned to tlie Taidong river.