381 HAEMORRHAGE. eiit (^f hicmoiThage. Besides these, there are only two other instiinces in wliich hasmorrhage seems to have been the cause of death :—that is ; Xo. 127 clinical history, of which the only record is that a shell- fragment penetrating the front of the neck, pierced the trachea and oesophagus injuring the right carotid artery and caused instant death owing to heavy haemorrhage. The statement is too brief to learn from it the size of the wound orifice, and whether the cervical vertebra were injured or not, etc. But judging only from the report, Ave think the perf )ration of the trachea and oesophagus is in itself serious enough to prove fatal sooner or later ; but had it not been for the injury of the right carotid, probably instant death would not have supervened, but the heavy hffiir.orrhage must have had nuK^h to do with accelerating it. Also as the injury of the carotid artery is liable to involve the vagus nerve, this may also liave assisted in causing death. The other is a, patient of Ko. 143 clinical history, avIio died from iieemorrhage. He received a penetrating wound on the left side of the chest break- ing the oth and 6th ribs, and owing to copious bleeding hsemothorax was produced to which the patient succumbed on tlie next morning. This W(3und was attended Avith a blind Avound on the loAver limb Avhich hoAA'-ever Avas not serious. As \v5is already discussed in the foregoing chapter, it seems the shell-fraginent did not enter the thoracic cavity, but came out after breaking tlie ribs, and the rupture of the intercostal arteries Avas indirectly caused by the smashed pieces of the ribs. Again, admitting that the shell fragment pierced the thorax, it must be considered merely to have fallen in the cavity, as there existed no symptoms of lung injury. Therefore, the wound l)y itself AA^as not serious enough to cause speedy death, but hiemorrhage was the real cause. So, if the injured A^essels had been ligatured, his life might have been saved. It is much to be regretted that at the time it Avas