315 BLIXD AND PEXETRATIXd WOUNDS. tended witli fractures of the ribs, Nos. 12 and 20 of the femur and Nos. 13 and 15 of the radius. These injuries of bones show that the shell-fragments were not very weak in force. On the other hand, there are cases in Avhich though the fragment reached the bone, yet broke only a part of the bone, or gave no injury at all, thus indicating the weak force of the fragment. This is seen in Nos. 7, 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, and 25. Circumscribed fracture (^f a bone in the neighborhood of the part struck by the fragment is of very rare occurrence in rifle wounds, while not unfrequent in gunshot wounds. This is owing to the fact that, in the latter case, the projectile is generally weak in force, and possesses an irregular shape and keen margins. This was especially the case with example jSTo. 15, in which although the shell-fragment was wedged into the surgical neck of the humerus, yet the fissures being limited to a small part, the bone was not entirely broken. Also, in No. 22 radiating fissures were produced in the bone for a little dis- tance, no shell-fragment remaining behind. This was perhaps because the fragment being rather large (from the size of the wound we infer that it was not small), only a part of it penetrated the tissues and hit the bone inflicting merely a slight injury owing to insufficiency of force, and that a larger part of it remaining outside, it fell off of its own accord. A remarkable instance of a shell-fragment partly pene- trating the tissues, the rest remaining outside, (Occurred in example No. 16. The fralament struck the front of the inner ankle of the right foot, reaching down to the bone, but one half of it remained ex- posed, so the injured man pulled it out by himself. The 22nd and 11th examples of these woaiids, and 6t"-h example of contused wounds by shell fragments, and 1st, 3rd, and -Ith examples of contused wounds by iron pieces are almost the same in their nature, so that it is hard to decide whether they ought really to be classed as contused