190 IXJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. acutely cut, Iiaemorrbage was not heavy. An antiseptic bandage was applied. The patient was, on the 19th, removed on board a transport and admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At that time, the surface of the wound over tlie lower part of the scapula had developed granulation attended by slight discharge of pus, while the wound of the calf had begun to suppurate, and the margins were inflamed. Carbolic lotion and an iodoform gauze were used. On the 30th, granulation was healthy iu each wound, pus discharge slight, especially with the injury near the lower part of scapula, which had almost dried, and the same day he was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. The wound of the scapula quickly healed, but the margins of the wound on the calf produced vesicles on account of the irritation of the iodoform and became ulcerated. Accordingly on October 2nd the part was dusted with dermatol and a dry corrosive gauze applied, and after a few days the vesicles dried. On the 14th, wound on the calf was found to have a canal measuring 6 c. m. iu a forward and downward direction, out of which bloody-pus was escaping, and a hard body was felt at the bottom. By means of forceps a square shell fragment 2 c. m. in diameter was extracted. As the fragment had been inserted between the tibia and fibula, the shafts of the bones were broken and small fragments of the bones were extracted, a drainage-tube introduced and an antiseptic dressing applied. At night the temperature rose to 39° C, and pain was felt in the injured part. On the 15th, the dressing was changed, and all the appearances of the wound were auspicious. On the 16th, the temperature fell to normal and the pain left, but pus discharge was copious, so a wet carbolic gauze was applied. On the 25th, the vesicles around the wound were healed, the granulating surface became small and shallow; discharge greatly decreased, so the drainage-tube was replaced by gauze. By November 10th, the granulation of the wound had grown to the level of the surrounding skin, the epider- mis had newly developed along the margins of the wound and there was no discharge. Boraclc ointment was applied. On the 30th the patient had completely recovered and rejoined his ship. 288.—Compound fracture of the right leg with contused wounds of the head and thighs and burns of the face :—S. Kato, aged 27, a nurse on board the Hiyei, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was assisting in attending to the wounded in the surgery near the stern on the lower deck, when a 30. 5 c. m. shell entered after piercing the starboard side, and exploded against the mizzen-mast. By some of the shell-fragments, he sustained injuries on the head, face and legs.