42 THE BATTLE OF YALt^. difficulties experienced by them in executing their duties can hardly be imagined. From the following report on medical work daring the engagement furnished by K. Usui, Chief Surgeon of the ship, we shall be able to see how the medical department of the ship was managed. On September 16th 1894, our ship set out from the temporary anchorage at Cape Choppeki, together with the Main and First Flying Sguadrons, and arriving at Hai- yang island on the forenoon of the 17th, reconnoitred the interior of the bay of that island ; and at Tai-ku-shan, she descried the enemy's fleet in the distance. At 0.20 p.m. she took her position for action, and opened firing at 1.09. Owing to the low rate of her speed, we fell behind the main bodj' during the battle, and being thus se- parated, naturally became the object of the enemy's concentrated attack. We were indeed once, in a very precarious condition from which it took a great deal of hard fighting to extricate ourselves, and rejoin the main squadron. Herewith I have the honour of reporting my personal experiences of medical work during the combat. The surgery of the vessel during the time of action had been prepared in the fore part of the lower deck, but owing to its nearness to the magazine, and to the fact, that there was no partitioned place to admit the passage for ammunition suppliers, it was necessary to get a safe place below the water line e.g. cock-pit; but this being too narrow, and inadequate for the surgery, the Captain gave us permission to use his cabin as a surgery during the battle. The table in the middle of the cabin was made into an operating table ; the benches on both sides of the ship and the stairs above them serving as bed-steads. The skylight was closed and protected with hammocks, so that lighted candles had to be used. A sliort time after our prepara- tions were finished a shell fell on the upper deck, and injured four of the guncrew. Before their dressings were finished, the firing on both sides grew hotter and hotter ; and the wounded were being brought in one after another, when all at once a gun- shot destroyed the ceiling of the surgery (upper deck), and glanced away. At 1.25 Captain Sakamoto and two of the guncrew were killed on the bridge, and two others were wounded. After this the wounded that were brought in from the upper and lower decks, were so numerous that we could not spare much time to any one individual. We could therefore only apply tourniquets to the wounds, and let slightly wounded men resume their duty, keeping only the serious cases in bed. At last by 2.30 p.m. the firing abated, and the wounded were each in his turn placed on the table ; and the character of each wound being well examined, tlie fragments of shell, pieces of iron and wooden splinters remaining in the wounds extracted. Presently the firing