INJURIES OP THE FACE. 79 of tlie Tenryii, at the time of the bombardment of the eastern fort of Liukung island, was standing at the gangway in the starboard-waist of the upper deck, when a shell burst striking a part of No. 2 side-gun on the port. One of the fragments smashed the whole of his skull blowing away the brain. 78. —Mutilation of the head with Compound fracture of Cervical vertebrae.—M. Sakata, aged 24, one of the erew of the No. 2 long 7.5 cm. gun of the Faso, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was at rest cross-legged near the loft side of the fannel-casing when a shell pierced through the lower part of the funnel, and some of the broken iron pieces crushed the occipital, the tem[i;)ial, and the parietal bones, with tlie whole encephalon and tlie portion from the vertex to the left clavicular region as well as the upper half of the cervical vertebrje. He died on the spot. 79. —Lacerated wound of the head and right upper extremity with compound fracture of the left lower limb.—I- Kawamura, aged 27, one of the crew of the revolving gun in the fore part of the Katsuragi, during the attack on the eastern fortress of Liukung island on February 11th, 1895, was working the gun, when a shell burst against the barrel. Some of the pieces crushed the upper part of his head leaving only a part of the lower jaw and occipital bone. The right shoulder joint was also so severely torn that it hung by a mere strip of muscle and skin ; the left knee joint was torn open, so that the patella protruded ; and a compound fracture of the left femur was sustained. He Avas killed instantaneously. 80. —Severance of the cranium with lacerated wounds in both feet. —S. Mizushima, aged 28, a seaman of the Araagi, on January 30th 1895, was firing on the enemy's vessels in the harbour, from the occupied fort of Luchotsai at Wei-hai-wei, when a shell from the enemy struck the barrel of the gun and broke it in two. One of the fragments crushed his skull, and completely dashed out his brain, both feet being mutilated at the same time. He died in a moment. 3. -INJURIES OF THE FACE. (A) INJURIES TO THE SOFT PARTS. 81. —Excoriation of the face.—Yamaguchi, aged 40, boatswain of the Hashidate in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was standing by the left side of