100 IXJUEIES OF THE FACE. symptoms. It was tlionglit that tliere might exist some foreign body in the eye-ball, so on the 25th of May, the left eye was extirpated ; on examination, a small fragment of shell covered with rust and weighing 0.95 gramme was found inserted between the choroid and sclerotic, on the part corresponding to the lower and outer part of the papilla. On the 31st of May, the wound of the eye healed. On the 7th of June, an artificial eye graciously presented by H. I. M. the Empress was put in. The sight of the right eye remained at /o% hut muscse volitantes had greatly abated. On examination, it was ascertained that the turbidity of the vitreous body was nearly absorbed, but the veins of the papilla were swollen, and its inner margin presented an oedematous appearance. The retina was also congested. These neuritic symp- toms persisted notwithstanding appropriate treatment. On the 27th of July, 'the in- jured man was invalided for life, and left the hospital with a grant of pension accord- ing to the regulations. (D) INJUEIES OF THE EAE. 112. —Rupture of membrana tympani of both ears :—T. Omori, aged 29, belonging to tlie crew of the starboard Hotchkiss gun of the Itsukushima ; in the battle of the Yellow sea on September 17th, 1894, was at work on the fort of the starboard Hotchkiss gun on the uppermost deck, when by the shock consequent to the firing of the 32 cm. gun, the membrana tympani of both ears were broken. By inspection with the speculum, the tympanic membrane of the left ear was uneven, with loss of brightness, the congestion was marked at its upper part, and a small perforation found in front of and above the central depression. The membrane of the right ear was perforated below the centre ; perforation being somewhat smaller than that of the left, and the margin smooth. Hearing was greatly impaired in the left ear, while that of the right was but slightly deranged. An antiseptic cotton wool plug was inserted in the meatus, and the patient was ordered to keep a strict rest. In due course, the lacerated wound of the left tympanic membrane formed union, while the perforation of the right ear remained ununited. However, no marked impairment of hearing existed. The treatment was discontinued on the 20th of October. 113. —-T. Uramoto, aged 24, one of the crew of the starboard Hotchkiss gun of the Itsukushima, in the same battle as above, was on the port side of the Hotchkiss gun on the uppermost deck, when by the vibration of the firing of the 32 cm. gun, he sustained perforation of both membrana tympani. On examination, two irregular