INJURIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. 108 Lead lotion was applied followed by the application of spirit of camphor. He recover- ed on October 9 th. 135. —Abrasion of right side of chest with contusion of right ing- uinal region :—^M. Takehara, aged 84, petty officer acting as a member of the machine gun magazine of the Hiyei, in the battle of Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1894, was lifting shells at the entrance of the said magazine on the rear beneath the lower deck, when a 30,5 cm. hostile shell exploded in the ward-room on the lower deck jnst above the magazine. The fragments of shell and broken pieces of the ship's planks fell into the magazine, and he received an abrasion from a wooden splinter on the right side of chest close to the sternum, while a fragment of shell knocked him on the right ingninal region. Luckily, owii:ig to the presence of a tobacco pouch (with a metalpipe) in the pocket of his coat, the fragment (of an irregular triangular shape) having pierced through the coat and the tobacco pouch, was stopped by the pipe which was bent into the shape of < the /irtH«-letter (See the wood-cut No. 3); but an irregular oval shaped subcutaneous extravasation at the middle of Poupart's liga- ment was produced. By the application of lead lotion, the lesions were cured on the 21st of the month. 136. —Abrasion of the back :—S. Omura, aged 23, one of the crew of No. 3 12 cm. gun of the Yoshino, in the battle of the Yellow sea, September 17th, 1894. While he was firing on the enemy's ships, at the fort of No. 3 gun on the starboard side of the upper deck, a hostile shell pierced through the starboard netting in the rear and burst on the quarter deck. Some of the fragments of shell were driven off so as to reach the fore part of the upper deck. One of them caused an abrasion on the part below the right scapula. Sublimate gauze was applied and sealed with adhe- sive plaster. The wounds healed on the 21st of the month. 137. —Contused wound of the right side of chest:—Y. Harada, aged 24, seaman of the Hiyei, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was, as one of a magazine party, engaged in lifting shells at the entrance of the magazine in the 3rd quarter of the lower deck, when an enormous shell, exploded in the ward-room on the 5th quarter. He received from a fragment of the shell a contused wound 2 cm. long and 1 cm. deep, in the posterior boundary of the right axilla. Iodoform was sprinkled on and adhesive plaster applied. The wound healed on the 20th of the month. 138. —Contused wound of left side of chest, head and left leg:— A. Ide, aged 28, Sub-lieutenant of the Matsushima, in the engagement of the Yellow