mUKIES OF THE FACE. 98 margin presented a serrated appearance, the fundus could be seen without the aid of an ophthahnoscope, tlms evidencing that the lens was absent; at the outer and lower part of the fundus, an old striated patch of blood extravasation was found which proved to be what had been before recognized as a deep green spot. The eyes however remained almost blind; indeed, the eye had undergone no remarka- ble change since the first, but there appeared occasional symptoms of inflamma- tion. Thus no hope of recovery of the sight could be expected, while if the eye was left in that state, there was reason to fear the occurrence of sympathetic ophthalmia. Therefore the injured eye was extracted on March 9th, 1895. When examined after tlie enucleation an iron fragment about the size of a bean was found concealed in the sclerotic at the outer and lower part of the ball (see the illustration No. 2) ; tlie lens was dislocated downward ; the retina detached Fig. 2. Iron fragment vvliich had ^ith an effusion of blood on its outer and lower side ; penetrated into the right eye-ball. the eye-ball had collapsed. After the operation, the course was favourable. On the 28tli May, the injured man had the honour of having an artificial eye graciously presented to him by H. I. M. the Empress. On the 14tli June he was put on the list of the invalided for life, and left the hospital. He was then granted a pension in accordance with the regulation. 111.—Penetrating wound of the left eye, blind wound of left leg, and lacerated wounds of left fingers:—Y. Tauaka, aged 25, one of the crew of the No. 5. side-gun of the Akitsushima. In the battle of the Yellow sea on Septem- ber 17th, 1894, he was engaged in carrying cartridges in the neighbourhood of the starboard No. 5 side-gun on the waist deck, when a hostile shell exploded against the shield of the gun. By the explosion, lie sustained a slight burn on the face, some gun-powder sticking into the skiu, and at the same time small iron fragments and gun-powder penetrated into both eyes, and he had a lacerated wound on the nasal side of the left eye, Avliich reached deep down into the interior. An effusion of blood eiisued in the anterior chamber causing entire loss of sight of the eye. The vision of the right eye remained inialfected. On the inner side at tlie npper third of the left leg, there was a lacerated aperture as large as the tip of the index-finger. The aperture ran beneath the gastrocnemius outward and down-ward measuring 7 cm. in its length. There was also a lacerated wound on the ulnar side of the left index- finger, and the second phalanx of the left little finger was crushed. The eyes were