27 THP: battle of YAl.H. [ had tlic sad duty of inspecting ilie coi'i'ses of tliosc who had honorably died, and of treatiiii,' the wounded. Then, beint^ appointed chief surgeon of the sliip in succession to the late Chief Surgeon Miyake, I had the honour of re-arranging her medical affairs. Here I humbly report on the circtnnstances of tlie battle as far as I was told tlieni by actual witnesses on board the slu[) and on what 1 observed there myself afterwards. At 5.11 p.m., on the lOtli yepteml)er, the Matsushima. Chiyoda, Itsukashirna, Hashidate, Hiyei, Fuso (the Main Squadron), tlie Yoshino, Naniwa, Akitsushirua, Takachiho (the First Flying Squadron"), with the Akagi and Saikyo-maru, num- bering 12 warships in all, departed from the temporary anchorage near Cape Choppeki in Korea, and during the following morning, (tlio 17th) cruised about the vicinity of Haiyang island off the Shing-king district of China, in search of the hostile fleets hut in vain. We now changed our course to the noith-east, and ap- proached the mouth of tiie river Taiyang when, at about 11.30 a.m., we descried a few steam-ships at a distance. Coming near tlicm, we recognized them as a Chinese fleet consisting of over ten ships. At 0.8 p.m.. a big Hag was hoisted on the main mast of the flagship Matsushima : following her example, our ship hoisted a flag on the main mast and blew to quarters. At the signal. Chief Surgeon, T. Miyake, Chief Paymaster C. Ishizuka, Assistant Surgeon C. Murakoshi, and three medical attendants, numbering 6 in all, assembled in the wardroom in the 5th section of the lower deck assigned as the surgery, taking with them every article necessary for treatment, and covering the table with a rubber sheet, so that all preparations were made for receiving the wounded. At 0.50 p.m., firing was opened by the enemy's fleets to which ours did not reply until we got at a distance of 4,000 meters fi-om the enemy ; at 1.08 p.m., both fleets approached by degrees, the Chinese fleet changing their position gradually, the angle of the enemy's double quarter lines seemingly intending to intersect our line ahead. At about 1.14, our ship being unable to follow the Hashidate. which advanced .just ahead at a suitable distance, we fell behind to a distance of 1,300 meters, when two hostile vessels at the angle of the lines, deeming it the sole o[iportunity for attack, turned tlieir helms, and bearing down upon us were about to ram us. The peril was imminent, but, with desperate resolution, we determined to thrust ourselves througli the enemy's line, liy making free use of the helm, so as to throw the enemy's lines into confusion. Showers of shots and shells were poured upon us from the foe on both sides. The gunners on either side of our ship worked desperately at their guns ; four men at No. 4. gun, and one at No. 9