212 BURNS. on fire tho amiuaiutiou stored, for the side-gun. By the flame of explosion, burns of the 2nd degree were inflicted on tlie head, face, neck, right shoulder, forearms and the lower part of legs. The burns Avere dressed on board the ship, and on the 20th, he was admitted to tlie Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the burned parts were covered with blisters, and the epidermis stripped off at places, exposing the true skin. The face was covered with scabs, the conjunctiva; being slightly congested and attended by photophobia. On October 1st, the burns of the shoulder healed, and the rest were nearly covered with new epidermis, Avliile that extending from the elbow joints to the forearms, still presented granul- ating surfaces with pas discharge. On the lltli, the burns of the face and legs were healed. On January 2nd, 1895, the burns of the forearms were healed by cicatrices. However, the epidermis being very thin it was liable to break, and the movements of the elbow joints were imperfect. Local warm bathing, massage, and liniments were resorted to. On April 9th, the patient almost recovered and returned to service. 338.—Burns of the head, face, neck, upper limbs and feet:—H. Matsuo, aged 30, senior blacksmith of the Matsushima, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was passing by the side of No. 1 starboard side-gun, in the fore part of the lower deck, when a 80.5 c. m. shell burst striking the shield of No. 4 side-gun, and at the same time setting on fire the ammunitions for the side-guns. By the flame of the explosion, he sustained burns of the 2nd degree on the head, face, neck, right upper arm, left forearm, and the ankle joints to the dorsi of feet. The burns being simply dressed on board at the time, he Avas, on the 20th, conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. On admission, the hair of the scalp was singed, and the integument covered here and there with scabs ; the face blackened by the powder flame, and the ear-lobes stripped of the epidermis. As to the burns of the neck, and upper and lower extremities, there were vesicles, or the epidermis had excoriated, oozing serum. They Avere washed AA'ith solu- tion of boracic acid, and Avrapped Avith AA'et cloths saturated Avitli the same lotion. On the 26th, the epidermis of the face Avas renewed, and the discharge from the burns of the upper and lower limbs lessened and new epidermis began to grow from the margins. On October 5th, the burns of the face and upper and lower limbs were nearly healed, so the only remaining parts Avere the ulcerated parts of the ear-lobes, and granulating part of the neck. Boracic ointment was applied. On the 20th, the burns Avere healed Avithout leaving cicatrices, and on the 22nd, he completely recovered and returned to service.