INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 150 swelling around the wound disappeared and the granulation grew bright red so that every condition was now auspicious. On the 28th, the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital. On November 25th, the wound formed a cicatrix, but owing to the cicatricial adhesion of the deep flexors, free movements of the ring and little fingers were hindered. Local warm bathing, massage and active as well as passive motions of the said fingers were perseveringly performed and by December 23rd, the movements of the fingers had greatly improved, so that the flexion of these fingers was only slightly hindered. On that day, the recovered patient left the hospital to return to duty. 221. —Non-perforatsd wound of the right fore-arm and contused wound of the fingers :—S. Snge, aged 30, a petty officer of the Hiyei, in the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was at the wheel on the quarter deck, when an enor- mous shell of the enemy exploded in the ward room at the stern of the lower deck. The shell fragments, broken pieces of plank and furniture flew out of the sky light of that room, and some of them inllicted a blind wound on the back part of the middle of the right fore-arm, and contused wounds on the right index and middle fingers. This enormous shell also killed all the medical stafl^ on board, and the patient had to be temporarily dressed by a shipmate, and was properly treated by a surgeon from another ship, when the vessel arrived at the station near Cape Choppeki next morn- ing. On the 26th of the same mouth, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Conditions of the Avounds:—On the back part at the middle of the right fore-arm was a lacerated wound 8 c. m. in diameter, and 3 c. m. in depth running in an upward direction. The margins of the wound were slightly swollen, with a discharge of pu.s and foreign bodies were found at the bottom, which, being extracted, proved to be five or six pieces of buck-wheat husk. At the root of the right index and middle fingers small contused wounds were found which were, however, already healed. An anti- septic dressing was applied, to the wound of the fore-arm. On the SOtli following, the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital, where more pieces of buck- wheat husk were taken out of the wound. On November 6th, he left the hospital completely recovered and returned to duty. 222. —Perforated wound of the left fore-arm, glancing wound of the left leg and burns of face :—H. Kakata, aged 23, a stoker on board the Matsu- shima, in the fight of the Yellow sea, was on duty in the engine room, when a hostile shell exploded in the neighbourhood of the after-engine room and broke the wall