INJURIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. 109 sea, was snperinteuding the torpedo tubes on both sides on the waist of the lower deck, when a hostile shell pierced through the place only a few feet ui front of his face ; he was thrown by the shock to the side of the starboard torpedo tube. At the same time he sustained, from broken pieces of iron, contused wounds in the left hypochondriac region and in the calf of the left leg. He fainted for a while, but soon returning to himself, received treatment. Conditions of the wounds: at tlie end of the last rib there was an irregular lacerated wound about the size of a 2 sen copper, and in the middle of the calf an oval wound 6 cm. long and 3 cm. wide. In both cases the skin was stripped off, but neither the hard nor the soft tissues beneath were found injured ; bleeding was not copious. An antiseptic dressing being applied, he soon returned to his former station. An hour after the accident he was again thrown down, together with the crew of the starboard torpedo-tube, by tlie shock of explosion of ammunitions for the side- gun, caused by the explosion of a hostile shell in the fore part of the lower deck ; and sustained, from a piece of shell, a lacerated wound on the posterior portion of the left parietal region. It was superticial, without lesion of the skull: bleeding Avas rather profuse. Besides, both the hands and the face were marked with numberless small black spots caused hy the powder. The Avounds were v/ashed with carbolic lotion, sprinkled with iodoform, and sublimate gauze applied. The wound of the head healed in the coarse of about 10 days by scab, while those of the chest and calf were much delayed hy suppuration, and did not begin to heal until the formation of cicatrices commenced. The cure was completed on Noveraher 7th. 139.—Blind wound of thoracic wall with abrasion of the left thigh K. Kodama, aged 29, a member of No. 5 Q. F. gun of the Akagi, in the battle of Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1891. While firing on the enemy's ships a fragment of hostile shell flew in from the stem and inflicted a wound on the left side of the chest. On examination, the wound was'found to be of an irregularly lacerated shape, 1 cm. long and 6 m.m. wide, over the 7th rib, about 6 cm. below the left nipple; 1 cm. deep, reaching to the rib. There was but little bleeding, but the shock caused the patient to faint. On the outer side of the left thigh a small abrasion was found. Iodo- form gauze was applied. The patient being taken on board a transport on the 19th, v/as admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At th6 time, the abrasion of the thigh had dried up and was almost healed ; the wound of the chest discharged a small quantity of pus. On probing the wound, something hard was felt at the bottom. The wound was cut wide to about 3 cm. and a rough angular piece of shell, the size of