INJURIES OF THE CHEST AND BACK. 116 deck .and ignited the ammunition provided foi- the side-gnn. By some of the fragments and by the explosion of the ammunition his chest wall was mutilated and the lower extremities crushed with burns of his whole body, causing instant deatlj. 153. —A. Takenaka, aged 21, crew of the No. 4 gan of the Hiyei, in the engage- ment of the Yellow sea, was standing with the powder-case hung about his chest by the No. 4 gun on the port side of the waist-deck, when a hostile shell came flying over the netting of the starboard waist, and burst against the stanchion of port booms. One of the fragments hit the powder case and exploded the ammunition in it, thus his chest wall and the thoracic visceras were crushed and the lower extremities mutilated and tlie whole body burnt. He died instantaneously. 154. —Mutilation of thoracico-abdominal region and lacerated wound of right thigh :—S. Sunagawa, aged 30, crew of No. 4 gun of the Hiyei, iu the battle of the Yellow sea, was firing on the fort of the gnu on the port side of the waist-deck, when a hostile shell came flying over the starboard waist netting, and exploded against the stanchion of the port booms. By one of the fragments, he was injured with a deep lacerated wound on the inner side of the lower third of the right thigh, complicated with an injury to the femoral artery. Bleeding was stopped immediately by one of the ambulance men who compressed the artery and conveyed the wounded man to the .surgery in the ward-room in the after part of the lower deck. During the surgical operation, another shell exploded in the room, by some large fragments of which the chest and abdomen were smashed, the thoracic as well as the abdominal viscera being torn to pieces. He died on the spot. 155. —Mutilation of the chest and abdomen:—S. Imabara, aged 31, crew of the port 9-pounder of the Tsukushi, in the bombardment of Zhih Island on February 3rd, 1895, was standing on the left side of the funnel on the upper deck, when a hostile shell hit his trank, mutilating the chest and abdominal walls together with the organs inside. Death was instantaneous. 6.-INJUR1ES OF THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. (A). INJURIES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALLS. 156. —Contusion of abdomen :—S. Tanaka, aged 20, crew of No. 5 Q.F. gun of the Akagi, in the battle of the Yellow sea, was wounded on the right side of the abdo- men by a fragment of a shell that came flying by the stern, while he was firing on