96 INJURIES OF THE FACE. of the forehead developed granulation so that it was partly covered by epithelium, but the condition of the left eye remained as before. On the 20th, the injured officer was sent to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time, the wound of the forehead had partly healed. The upper lid of the left eye was strikingly swollen and hung down over the lower which was itself tumefied. On examination the conjunctivie were inflamed, especially that of the eye ball Was greatly swollen over-lapping the margin of the cornea, making it seem as if the cornea had sunk into the interior of the ball. The cornea was grayish and opaque and pain was felt in the eye. The right eye had conjunctival congestion, with photophobia. The wound of the eye-brow was covered with carbolic gauze ; and the eye was washed with boracic lotion ; the swollen conjunctivaa Avere scarified and cold boracic compress was applied. On the following 24th, the conjunctivitis of the lids was intensified, there was great pain and swelling, so the part was scarified again ; and a dose of a mild purgative Avas administered. Thus the pain of the eye was slightly mitigated, yet the swelling remained as before. On March 2nd : the swelling of the left eye subsided gradually. The wound of the eye-brow had a very slight discharge with favourable granulation and was greatly contracted. The congestion of the right eye had not quite disappeared. On the 13th, it was found that the tumefaction and pain of the left eye had greatly abated. The siglit was so entirely lost that light and dark could not be distinguished. The cornea was quite opaque so that the fundus could not be examined. On the 21st, the wound of the eye-brow cicatrized successfully. The conditions of the left eye continued the same. The right eye had a slight congestion with photophobia and lacrimation. In addition to the previous prescription, a weak solution of sulphate of zinc was dropped in the right eye and iodide of potassium administered internally. Fom that time the inflammation of the eye-lids and conjunctivfE subsided by degrees, but the left eye-ball gradually withered and pain came on now and then with aggravation of congestion. The congestion of the right eye obstinately resisted all remedies. Thus the left eye had entirely lost its function, and it served only to cause irritation ot the healthy eye, so tlie enucleation of the eye was performed on the 24 th of April under an auojsthetic. The enucleated eye-ball was atrophied to the size of the tip of the index-finger. The conjunctiva and muscles of the eye were indurated ; on section the eye was found to be as hai'd as a cartilage ; the choroid and vitreous body were present, but the lens had disappeared, and the optic disc had con- tracted to the size of a linseed. After the operation the progress was favourable. On the