119 IX.JURIES OF 'VHli ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR REGIONS. of the explosion, the upper deck was tilted and torn up just where he was standing, causing concussion of tlie lumhar vertehrse and sprain of the ankle joints. There wa'^ an intense pain at these parts and paresis of the lower extremities so as to prevent liis standing while he was being carried to the cabin : frequent attacks of spasms occurred with extreme pain in the loins. Swelling and intense pain of the ankle joints and feet, with constricting sensation around the abdomen, and slight numbness of both lower limbs, appeared toward the night of the accident. On the 21st, he was admitted to Sasebo Naval Hospital. At that time, the temperature was 38^ C.; pulse 78 ; the tongue furred ; appetite impaired, attended with nausea ; yet the thoracic and abdominal viscerte were sound. On examination, hyperaestliesia over the 4th lumbar vertebra and lumbo-sacral joint was found. On the 'iSrd, the temperature indicated 38° C, pulse 76 ; the nausea still continued and tlie appetite was not restored yet; the swelling of ankle joints decreased a little yet the pain did not subside at all. Urine was cloudy, and on examination no abnormal constituents were found. On the 26t]i the temperature stood at 37.°6 C; the nausea had subsided ; the constricting sensation had disappeared in the abdominal region, also hypersesthesia of the lumbar region subsided. The swelling of the right ankle was diminishing by degrees, while the swel- ling of the left side had undergone no remarkable change. On the 30th, the sensation of botli extremities was found restored to its normal state as regards the sense of touch, but analgesia persistetl so that no pain was felt if the skin was pinched. The sen- sation of warmth over the spinal cord being tested, the sensation of cold was normal but that of warmth was very acute over the 3rd and 4th lumbar verteljrse. On the 4th of October, the temperature still stood at 37 °6 C; the swelling of tlie ankle joints subsided remarkably so as to produce wrinkles in the skin in those parts—especially on the right side. By this time, the calves became slightly emaciated, and the tendon reflex of the knee increased. By the 18th, the analgesia of the lower extremities had greatly subsided ; the patellar reflex likewise was lessened, and the swelling of the ankles greatly decreased. Walking was first tried on this day, but it proved a failure owing to the pain felt at the ankle joints wliunever they were moved. On tlu^ i^litii, temperature became norma], the swelling of the right ankle completely disappeared, only a slight swelling (jf the left ankle still remained; sq.iatting on the bed and bond- ing the body caused a sensation of pressure over the 3rd lumbar vertebra. When he tried to walk pain was felt in the soles of the feet. On November 10th, all symptoms were relieved ; walking in the room still caused the sensation of pressure over the