IXJURIES OF .I'HE FACE. 91 108.—Compound fracture of the face (rupture of the right retina) with a blind wound of the riglltleg S. Ikebe, aged 30, a soainau of the Akitsnsliiiua. In the battle of Yellow sea on September 17th, 1894, he was actuig as tackle-meudor, also assisting iu carrying shells to No. 5 side gun, when an enemy's shell exploded by striking against the shield of that gun. Some of the flying fragments inflicted a compound fracture on the dorsum of the nose and a blind wound on the imier side of the lower part of the right leg. On examination, a vertical lacerated wound was found extending from the summit to the middle of the dorsum of the nose. The nasal spines of the frontal bone, the nasal bones, the nasal processes of the superior maxilla and a part of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid were crushed, and the Avound presented a cave- like appearance, retaining iu it pieces of bone and fragments of tlie shell. There was an ecchymosis into the right orbit of the eye ; and a marked swelling of the right lid, so that the eye could not be opened. There were also penetrating wounds, one at the lower part of the inferior margin of the right orbit, and the otlier at the upper and outer part of the right corner of the mouth. In the latter wound a fragment of shell about the size of the tip of the thumb was discovered. Another small wound was found on the inner side of the lower part of the right leg. x\lso burns, due to the explo- sion of the powder, were present on several parts of the face. The fragments of shell and bone were extracted from the wound in the nasal region and a fragment of shell from the wound near the corner of the mouth. AH the wounds were dressed antisepticalJy. During the night bleeding occurred from the wound at the nasal region so as to wet through the bandage which was therefore changed, and a cold compress was applied over it. Next morning, the lioemorrhage had stopped entirely, but the swelling of the face was severe, especially over the eye-lids. On the 19th he was sent to Sasebo Naval Hospital on a transport and admitted on the 21st. At the time, the face, especially the right lialf, was remarkably swollen ; the right eye-llds were so swollen that the examination of the eye-ball could not be made. The left eye-lids wei-e slightly swollen too, with congestion of the conjunctiva, but the sight was not obscured. In the wound below the right orbit a hard lump was found which was cut open, and proved to be, a small fragment of shell and was extracted. Oh the 28th, the swelling of the face had subsided. On the 5th of October, the wound of the nose had developed granulation so as to cover the fractured parts. Along the septum and left side of the nose, there was a tendei-ness, accompanied by anajsthesia in the right half of the