296 CONTUSED WOUND. bably have been an injury of that artery. AVith regard to this case, further remarks will be made later on. The 7th instance was the case of a contused wound just above the internal condyle of the right humerus. Though apparently there was no injury of the ulnar nerve, yet seeing that numbness and paralysis ensued in the regions distributed with the nerve, there must h;ive been contusion of the nerve. Tlie 5th and 6th instances are the cases of contused wounds of the head, in which the bone and brain were crushed, causing instant death. Xo wonder such fatal wounds should be inflicted by blows from large iron-pieces. (3) Twenty three cases of contused wounds caused by Avooden splinters occurred in 21 persons, most of them were slight ones, and the only cases of any interest are as follow^s : — The 1st example was a small contused wound in the left parietal region caused by a wooden splinter. The scalp was torn, bat the wound was shallow and did not pierce the occipito-frontalis, and there was no sign of bone lesion. However, after a while, paralysis in the right side of the face appeared, so that the eye-lids could not properly be closed, and the tongue inclined toward the right side, and the speech was also im- paired, attended witli a slight paralysis of the limbs of the same side. Though the wound of the liead healed before long, it was 2 mouths before the paralysis was cured' (No. 38.) The 2 example was the S shaped contused wound, 9 c. m. loiig, running obliquely upwards from the upper part of the left superciliary ridge of the forehead. It reached to the bone which was broken. Besides, on the right side of the face were burns, and the siglit of the left eye was greatly impaired. But no symptoms of braia injury ex- isted. On ophthalmoscopic examination, hemorrhage of the retina was recognized. After 40 days the wounds healed, but the sight was not restored, and attended with diminution of tlie field vision. In spite of every means of treatment recovery of the siglit was hopeless, and accordingly the patient was discharged from service for life. (No. 47.)