154 INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. ing a wounded man to the surgery in the fore part of the upper deck, when a 30.5 c. m. hostileshell exploded in the fore part of the lower deck, and caused all the ammunition provided for the side-guns to explode at once, so that tlie upper deck was forced up and rent open by the shock. A flying wooden splinter hit the ball of the left thumb inflicting a contused wound 2 c. m. in length and 1 c. m. in width. It was directly dressed with corrosive gauze. On October 3rd, it had healed by scab- buig. 227. —Perforated wound of the left hand and burns of both fore-arms: —T. Umehara, aged 20, a junior bandsman, on board the Matsushima, in tlie l)attle of the Yellow sea, was standing in the fore part of the lower deck, to act as a carrier of the wounded, when a 30.5 c. m. hostile shell burst against the fort of No. 4 larboard gun of the same deck, and ignited the powder provided for the side-guns. One of the shell-fragments inflicted a perforating wound on the ball of the left thumb, and he re- ceived burns of both fore-arms. Temporary measures were directly given on board, and on the 20th of the same month the patient was conveyed to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Conditions of the wounds :—The burns presented the symptoms of the 2nd degree, the skin mostly denuded and exposing the red surface of the true skin. The wound of the left hand had a round entrance orifice on the inner side of the thumb- ball, which measured 2 c. m. in diameter, and the passage of the wound was around the radial side of the 2nd metacarpal bone and found its exit on the back of the hand. The exit wound was somewhat larger than the entrance one, and the skin was rent open. The burns were dressed with wet boracic gauze, and tije Avound of the thumb with carbolic gauze. By October 11th, the burns healed, and the wound of the hand mucli improved. The patient was transferred, on the 28tl), to the Kure Naval Hospi- tal. On December 16th, he left the hospital to return to duty. (After the recovery of the wound flexion of the left thumb and index finger was 'slightly interfered with, which, however, caused no marlced inconvenience.) 228. —Compound fracture of the left metacarpal bones and contused wound of the head and buttock :—G- Sugiyama, aged 28, a seaman belonging to the Akitsushima, in the naval engagement of tlie Yellow sea, was carrying shells to No. 5 side gun, when a shell exploded against the shield of that gun, and he was wounded by the fragments on the head, hand and buttock. On examination, on the left side of the occipital region, that is, at a point 5 cm. above and behind the left mastoid process, a Y-shaped contused wound, 5 cm. in length was found, and the scalp