THE BATTLE OF YALtJ. 30 steered to the south-west, where by concentrated eEfort, we .succeeded in putting out the fire at about 3.30 p.m., and now recovering our fighting power, proceeded again to join our squadron and resume action. We tlierefore steered towards where our fleets had been, but it was now growing dark, and not only was it difficult to dis- tinguish our vessels from the enemy's, but as we had sustained the heavy loss of 19 killed and 37 wounded, and, to make the matter worse, all the surgeons and nurses being either killed or severely wounded, we had no alternative but to steer for the temporary anchorage near Cape Choppeki. At the time when the fire was being put out, three able seamen were appointed as a temporary nursing staff, and by these men the wounded were cared for as far as possible. Over twenty shells in all struck our ship, but of tho.se not more than four caused fatal or other injuries. So far I have related what was told me by eye-witnesses. As soon as the sliip cast anchor at the rendezvous near Cape Choppeki, she made a signal for surgeons to the Kaimon and the transport Doyo-maru, etc., which were stationed in the Yicinity. In compliance with this demand. Staff Surgeon Ishio, Assistant Surgeon Yosliimura and a nurse from the Kaimon, with myself and a nurse from the Doyo- maru soon went on board the Hiyei. On inquiring why surgeons were demanded, we were told that on the afternoon of the previous day the 17th, a severe fight had taken place between the Japanese and Chinese fleets off Haiyang island, and the Hiyei, having been in the thickest of the fight, had very many on board killed or wounded. As moreover the surgeons and nurses had been killed or severely injured, the wounded had been left to themselves, and we were therefore asked to attend them at once. Consultation was held with the surgeons from the Kaimon. We wished to start the indispensable treatments of the sufl'erers without delay but all the medical materials had been destroyed by the explosion of the enormous shell and the consequent fire, and we were compelled to send for necessary materials from the Kaimon. A temporary surgery was established at the battery under the poop deck ; the sufl'erers were removed there one by one, and tlieir wounds temporarily dressed ; for the ship being in a greatly confused conditions, we could not give satisfactory treatment. So the wounds were first cleansed by washing, and fragments of shell or wood removed; splints were applied to fractures and the wounds dressed with antiseptic bandages. This was all we could do at the time. Soon afterwards Surgeon Hinata from the Chiyo-maru, and Surgeon Asai from the Genkai- maru came on board and gave willing assistance in treating the wounded. By some time after one in the afternoon all the sufferers had been more or less attended to, but