INJUIUES OP THE ABDOMINAL AND LUMBAR EEGIONS. 121 All the wounds Avere antiseptically treated, and to the per- forating wound of the leg a drainage tube was introduced. On the 18tri, the temperature was normal; witli no bad signs except slight pains about the wounds. On the 19tb, he was transferred on board a transport, and admitted to b'lg. 5 Shell fragment ex- . . . . tracted from the left leg oasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. On admission, tlie (clot adherin„) wound on the right side of the chest was discliarging a yellowish thin fluid and tlie patient complained of pains in the chest and coughing. The broken ends of the rib were sharp and irregular; the bottom of the wound reached deep into the liver preventing thorough examination. Tlie sharp ends of the rib were pared off. All the other wonuds progressed favourably. On the 23rd, the dressing of the chest wound was changed: when the bile came out from the wound, which presented a darkreddish colour. The wound of the leg also discharged a little pus, but those of the head and of the fore arm speedily developed granulation. On the 27th, by probing into the chest wound, a piece of bone flat and rough, of the size of a bean, was extracted. The peritoueal covering of the liver was abrased and a part of the liver substance injured. The wound was washed with a carbolic solution, and an iodoform gauze applied. The temperature rose a little. On October 1st., some of the decayed covering and liver substance came out of the wound. The wound was cleansed and an anti- septic dressing tightly applied. On the 2nd, an oval elevation of skin was found on the right side between the first and second lumbar vertebrae, which moved to the touch and gave a sensation of some solid substance. The part was opened with an- tiseptic precaution and a fragment of shell, of an irregular rectangular shape, about the size of a bean was extracted. As regards its coarse, whether the fragment liad entered by the chest wound or had taken a different course by passing round the ribs, cuold not be ascertains 1. The incision was healed on the 6th. On the 7tli, the disch- arge from the chest wound was the same as before, deciyed liver substance came out mixed Avitli bile emitting a peculiar smell somewhat like peptone. In the right infra- scapular region, dulness on percussion and a slight friction was revealed, accompanied witli cough ; tlie p itient became ausemic and debilitated. A mixture of iron and quinine was internally given. On the 15th, the discharge fit)m the chest wound greatly decreased ; two pieces of sloughs were taken out. The perforating wound of the leg became narrowed by the granulation, so the drainage tube was replaced by a strip of sublimate gauze. With the wounds of liead and fore-arm, the pus discharge ceased.