ox THE BATTLE OF THE YELLOW SEi. 237 The burns caused by the explosion of shells or gun-powder are as shown in the next table C. Table C. Locality of buens. Xdmber of kil. AND IN.T. Pebcen'iagb of kil. and inj. according to locality. Greater part of the body 18 45.00 Several parts of the body 18 45.00 The upper limbs 2 5.00 The lower limbs 2 5.00 Total 40 100.00 In tlie foregoing three tables A, B, C, when a man received several wounds, only tlie most severe Avound is reckoned, to the exclusion of the rest. Many cases of in- juries from shell fragments associated with burns are included in the table A. in order to show the locality of injuries. Among the injuries to the ' whole body ' in table A. are counted various cases: e.g. cases in which the whole body being mutilated, no particu- lar place of injury could be assigned ; cases in which several parts of the body were wounded, so as to make it difficult to differentiate any particular locality, and also cases in which the whole body was thrown over-boai'd by the explosion of shells. In the injuries to the head in table B. are included 8 cases of perforation of membrana tympani. And in the 'greater part of the body ' in table C. are included those cases in which the total area of several barns of the body was so extensive as to cover more than one-third of the whole body, and the ' several parts of the body ' includes cases in which the burns were so scattered that no particular place could be named. The number of injuries caused by projectiles arranged according to locality is as shown in t;ible A. from which Ave see that excepting the injury to the whole body, the head has the largest number, then in order come the lower limbs, the upper limbs, the abdomen and lumbar region, the chest and back ; the neck ranking last. For past, naval battles of Europe and America, we can obtain no statistics on this point. But for land battles, if those injuries where the localities were well ascertjiined are summed up and classified, for the Crimean