PERFORATED WOUNDS. 340 Therefore, those which produce the perforating wounds are mostly of middle size ; on considering the examples before mentioned, we see that the wound with the smallest orifice was the size of the tip of the thumb, while wounds with large orifices are seen in the 2nd, 13th, 17th, and 18th instances. Again, shell-fragments, for the same reason which makes them unfit for penetrating into tissues, receive much resistance from the air while flying through it, and in consequence remarkably soon lose their original velocity after flying a short dis- tance. This they do even sooner than the shells themselves, to say nothing of bullets. The relation that velocity bears to force is very great, for if a unit of velocity be multiplied by two, the force increases to 4, and if by 3, the force will increase to 9, so a shell-fragment which has enormous force at the point of explosion will lose its force remarkably at a short distance. For this reason, the kinds of wounds inflicted, greatly depend on the distance of injured persons from the place of explosion. If the shell burst near the man, either mutilating, lacerated, or perforating wounds will be produced, but if the explosion occurred at a short distance from the man, other kinds of wounds will be produced. Hence the cause of the rareness of perforating wounds may easily be seen. Now, the perforating wounds produced in the late war were chiefly caused by shell-fragments and numbered 33 out of a total of 38 wounds, that is, 86.84 per cent of all perforating wounds, and the remaining 5 were inflicted by the following causes ; one by a shell itself, one by a bullet and the other three by iron-pieces. There is some suspicion that a wound ascribed to a shell itself as we have already said may have been produced by a shell-fragment, and one of the three cases ascribed to iron pieces may have been caused by a shell-fragment too. If so considered the ratio will be 92.11 per cent. It is a natural result that iron-pieces produced only 2 or 3 wounds