166 mUklES OF 'J'HE LOWEK EXTEEMITY. • was removed, and antiseptic gauze was filled into it. The wounds ou the inguinal and tibial regions became small with healthy granulation. On the 25th, the wound of the left leg formed cicatrix, and on November the 12th, that of the inguinal region accomplished cicatrization leaving an iuduration there. The swelling of the testes had not entirelj' subsided, and gave much pain to pressure, the incised wound of the scrotum not closing yet, some pus escaped from it. By the middle of December, the swelling of the testes had nearly disappeared, and the incised wound of the scrotum almost healed. On January 12th, 1895, the patient completely recovered and return- ed to the service. (B) INJURIES OF THE THIGH. ^^■17.—Contusion of the right thigh :—Y. Takagi, agad 43, Chief Navigating Officer of tlie Combined Squadron on board the flagship Matsushima, at the time of the attack of the eastern forts of Liuknng Island, was standing on the fore bridge when a liostile shell passed over the said bridge, rebounding from the sea ou the port bow. On this occasion, by some of the broken wooden splinters caused by the pas- sage of the shell, he was struck on the right thigli and mons veneris. The inner side of the right thigli was swollen all over and attended by pain, also the mons veneris was swollen to the size of a goose-egg. But in neither place did there exist signs of subcutaneous extravasations nor injury to the bone. Lead lotion was applied and the swelling as well as the pain in both places gradually subsided, and he was soon completely cured. 248. —Contusion of the right thigh with burns of the right leg :—S. Nakashima, aged 2G, one of gun-crew of the Yoshino, in the battle of the Yellow sea, Avas standing on the fort of No. 8 3—pounder on the Avaist-deck, when a hostile shell after piercing through the starboard netting, collided against 12 cm. shells placed in rows along the ship's side and burst with them at once. By one of the flying shell-fragments he was struck on the outer-side of the right thigh, and at the same time received a burn on the lower part of the light leg by the explosion gas. On examination, the part struck on the thigh was found swollen, presenting a dark purple colour ; and the burned part of the leg was reddened to the size of the palm. The contused part was painted with spirit of camphor, and the burned surface was covered with oiled lint. On the 21st of the same mouth both healed completely. 249. —Contusion of the left thigh :—S. Seto, aged 34, a clerk on board the