BURNS. 209 but there was no hope of recovery, so lie was, ou September 5tli, invalided and pen- sioned for life according to the regulations. 332.—Burns of the face, neck and both forearms :—S. Obo, aged 29, a gmnier of No. 9 side-gnn by the same cause received burns of the 2nd degree on the face, neck, and the parts below the middle of the right and left forearms to the finger- ends. The injured man was directly carried to the surgery in the ward-room, and dressed with oiled lint. On the 20th, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At that time, the hair of the head was found singed ; tiie face and ear-lobes swollen, producing here and there vesicles; the eye-lids, tlie tip of tlie nose, forearms and hands were denuded of e[)idermiR exposing the dermis. Wet boracic lint was applied at first but as the case improved, it was replaced by boracic ointment. By the middle of October the epidermis completely formed over the burns, and healed without leaving cicatrices. On the 22nd, he returned to service completely recovered. 338.—Burns of the face, nape of neck, shoulders, upper limbs and left leg:—N. Ando, aged 31, gunner of No. 10 side gun, by the same cause received burns of the 2nd degree on the face, neck, shoulders, the left elbow, both forearms, left knee and the middle of the left leg. The injured man was directly carried to the surgery in the ward-room, and dressed with oiled lint. On the 20th, the patient was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At the time, the face and ear-lobes presented a blackish colour, the hair singed, blisters and nlcerations were found on the burnt surfaces. Washed with boracic lotion and dressed with wet boracic lint. On October 28tl], all the burns except on the ears were healed. The ear-lobes being deeply affect- ed, a portion was destroyed of each lobe and now presented granulating surfaces. Boracic ointment was applied to the ears. On December 21st, he was returned to service completely healed. 334.—Burns of the face, neck, right shoulder, upper arras, and right lower limb with blind wound of the left leg: —T. Kurokawa, aged 30, one of No. 10 side-gun crew, by the same cause sustained burns of the 2nd or 3rd degrees on the face, ear-lobes, neck, right shoulder, the right arm to the hand, the left elbow joint to the hand, right gluteal region, and the outer side of the right thigh to the knee; and a blind wound 2 cm. in diameter at the middle of the left calf. The injured man was directly carried to the cabin, and after the administration of brandy, the burns were dressed with, oiled lint, and the wound of the calf with sublimate gauze. On the 20fch, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval .Hospital. The face and ear-lobes were covered