307 BLIND AXD PENETKATIXG WOUNDS. man also sustained several lacenitecl wounds on the head, face and upper limbs. The wound of the knee suppurated, and healed in 5 months, leaving ankylosis of the joint. He was permanently discharged from service. (No. 271.) 18tli example :—Owing to the explosion of a shell, one of the small fragments penetrated into the left eye ball at tlie inner cantbus ; at the same time the burns on the face were sustained. A small blind wound on the inner surface of the upper third of the left leg was also inflicted, which measured 7 cm. in depth and a foreign body was present at the bottom, which was extracted by making a counter opening. The body proved to be a metal piece, the size of tip of the thumb, The left ocular conjunctiva was inflamed and the anterior chamber filled with a dark reddish fluid, the pupilary region presented a yellowish hue and the vision was completely lost. The conjunctiva of the right eye was congested and the sight was somewhat impaired. The wound of the leg was healed in 3 months. Nevertheless, the sight of the left eye was not restored at all, and the irritative congestion of the conjunctiva in the same eye still persistently remained, with gradual shrinking of the eye ball. The sight of the right eye was restored a little, but whenever the patient gazed at an object, muscag volitantes were soon complained of. As the left eye presented no hope of re- covery, it was enucleated and an artificial eye was put on. A small shell fragment weighing 0.95 gramme was found lodged between the choroid and the serelotic at the back part of the eye-ball. The injured man was discharged from service for life. (No. 111.) 19th example:—A case of penetrating wound of the back, below the left sca- pula, breaking the ribs. Dyspnoea and great pain in the left side of the chest was complained of, in the movement of the body and respirations. Wiien pressed, the margins of the wound gave a sensation as if snow were compressed, owing to subcu- taneous emphysema. From the wound, at each respiratory movement, blood mixed with air bubbles came out. In the night, prajcordial uneasiness, dyspnoea and pain in the chest were so severe, that the patient could not have a sound sleep. The tem- perature rose to 38° C; urine was drawn by catheter. At the time of admission to the hospital on the fourth day after injury, coughing was incessant and a sputum stained with blood was expectorated. There was intense pain in the chest and the subcutaneous emphysema extended from the left scapular region to the axilla. On percussion, a slight dnlness was revealed in the lower part of the left side of the chest. The cough and emphysema gradually subsided ; the bloody expectorations disappear-