801 CONTUSED WOUND. killed on the spot and 1 pei-S(Mi died on tlie fourth day of injury. Each of these persons sustained many coiitused hicerated wounds, of which the serious ones seem t(^ have been caused by shell fragments, but as there were other iron-pieces that were large and heavy, clear discrimination can not of course be made. 'Jliose who were injured by being near wdiere a shell explosion occurred, were not on 1}^ struck by shell fragments, (jr iron and Avooden splinters, but were liable to sustain other wounds from the expaiisi^ e power of the gas, or from the flame. The latter kinds of wounds are often dwelt on under a special head. " The Explosive wounds," and therefore we shall treat of it under the subject of the crushed and mutilated wounds produced by the same cause. (b) There w^ere 12 contused wouiids in which the cause of the wound w'as not ascertained, wdiether by iron fragments or wooden splinters. 1st example:—A cook was struck by iron and wooJljii pieces which were prodnced by the destrnctiou of tlje loweu deck by a Ijostile slieh, and sustained a contused wound 3 c. ni. long and 1 c. m. wide on the upper Jip, and a contused wound 10 c. ni. in length and 1 c. m. in width extending from the right ear to the right side of tlie neck, and small contused wounds, one each on the right eye-hrow and cheek, and 3 small contused wounds on tlie left index finger, and ii contused wound 2 c. m. square on the outer side of the middle of the rigiit thigh, and anotlier, 4 c. m. square, beliind the right elbow joint. In eacli of them, the margins were irregularly lacerated, present- ing a purple colour, threatening suppuration, all the wounds were cured within a fortnight. (No. 98.) 2nd example :—Was a contused wound on the outer side in the middle of the right arm by iron and wooden pieces, wliich suppurated, and at last were healed after 0 weeks. This man was the same as the 3rd example of contusions caused by splint- ers. (()) Instances of contused wounds c:uised by a fall produced by shock are as follows :