INJURIES OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 144 from tli3 wonncl prodnciug emphysema tiu;ler the skin. Besides tijis the folloAviDg wouiicls were founcl :—Above and inside of this wound was an ahrased wound in an obhque Hne, above and outside two similar ones, a contused wound at the inner margin of lh3 right scapula, and sis smaller contused wounds on the outer side of tlie right tliigh. Moreover, the right upper arm at tlie middle third and tlie left at the lower third were pierced from the back to the front. The humeri were both fractur- ed, but the brachial arteries escaped injury and bleeding was not great. Antiseptic treatment was immediately given to all the wounds and splints applied to the arms. The patient was removed on the 19th on board a vessel bound for home and admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. At the time, the wounds were inflamed, discharged pns, and on the left side of the chest subcutaneous emphysema existed. On examination, both humeri were found to be broken through transversely, small pieces of bone sticking into the surrounding muscles and the wound canals formed hollow cavities. The rib was broken obliquely, and its inner end penetrated into the wound. The pointed end was sawed away to make it smooth, the free pieces of the broken humeri extracted, drainnge tubes introduced, perforated plaster bandages ap- plied, and the wounds irrigated every day. In due course of time, the abrased wounds on the back and right thigh healed, but the penetrating wound of the chest still caused trouble. By October 1st, the subcutaneous emphysema of the chest had ex- tended down to the hypogastric region and even to the scrotum, so tight bandages were applied. On the seventh, a swelling, the size of a bean, was discovered on the right inter-scapular region, and on feeling it a solid body was found to move under the skin. It was cut open and an irregular fragment of shell was obtained. By the 15th, the chest wound had developed granulation, the perforation of the thoracic cavity was perfectly closed so that the air did no longer escape from the lung and the subcutaneous emphysema had almost disappeared. The wounds of both upper arms still had a copious discharge, but minute pieces of bone, like grains, clogged the canals of the wounds obstructed the flow of pus, and consequently the temperature was increased, so the wounds were enlarged to give a free discharge. On November 12th, the chest wounds formed a cicatrix, but the wounds of the upper arms were still troublesome. By Marcii 28th, 1895, the fractures of both arms had united, and the wound of the left arm healed, but that of the right still discharged pus slightly, with occasionally minute pieces of bone. The derangement of the right musculo-spiral nerve and its branches caused drop-wrist and ansesthesia of the parts which it sup-