208 BUEXS. (B) BUKNS OF VARIOUS PAETS. All cases of burns wlucli do not extend over one-third of tlie Avliole body are mentioned here. 331.—Burns of the face, neck, left upper and both lower limbs with contused wound of the face :—Y. Mori, aged 24, gunner of No. 5 side-gnn. By the same cause as before he received burns of the 2ud degree on the face, neck, the left forearm and hand, the outer side of the left thigh and leg, the dorsum of the left foot, and tlie autero-external surface of the right tliigh and leg. In addition to the above, a small contused wound on the right cheek was sustained by a fragment of shell. The injured man was carried directly to the surgery in the wardroom, and the burns dressed with oiled lint. On the 20th, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. Conditions of the wounds at the time of admission :—On several of the burned surfaces were vesicles, and wliere complete denuding of the epidermis had occurred, pus was discharging. The wound of the right cheek had healthy granulation covered with a thin layer of laudable pus. Tlie burns were washed with boracic lotion and dressed with wet boracic lint. On October 8tli, tlie epidermis was perfectly formed on the burnt surfaces of the face, neck, and the right leg ; and the wound of the face was healed by scabbing. On tlie 18th, the burns of the right lower limb were healed ; and those of the left lower limb were covered by the new epidermis, except on the ankle joint. Those of the left upper limb presented granulating surfaces with points of suppuration, this was especially so between the fingers, where the injury was deep beneath tlie skin. On the 30th, the burned surface of the left ankle joint was healed, and the granulating surface of the left upper limb had nearly ceased to discharge pus ; so boracic ointment was applied in place of the wet lint. On De- cember IStli, tlie burns on the left upper limb were healed by cicatrization, but the grasping power was impaired. Local bathing and active exercise of the hand were persevered with. On April 9th, 1895, though the flexion of the left ring and little fin- gers was not perfect yet, the grasping power gradually recovered indicating 20 kilog. by dynamometer ; in this condition he returned to duty, and served for some time. In the course of time, cicatricial contraction of the left fingers followed causing impairment of movement. Moreover liypersesthesia in the cicatrix supervened, so the grasping power of the left hand decreased to 10 kilog. He was again admitted on August 9th, and several measures such as local bathing, massage, etc., were afforded