•293 CONTUSED WOUND. weak shell-fragment, the bone like the skull sustained injury (jnl\' on its outer plate. Case /' was a small contused wound on the upper part of the right temporal region, in Avhich though no bony lesion was recognized yet anaesthesia and paresis of the left index-finger appeared. Whether this was consequent upon the pressure of the centre of the finger, located behind the fissure of Rolando, by a small extravasation of blood arising from fissures made in the inner plate of the bone, or upon the injury of the brain by the piece of broken inner plate, or upon a small contusion on the superficial layer of the brain without any lesicjn to the l^one or membrane, is not ascertained. For, it could not be known whether there were symptoms of cerebral irritability or compression at the time of injury, as all the surgeons on board the shi[) were killed, and the clinical records are so brief that no inference can now be drawn from them. ]>ut considered from the fact that the paralysis and anaesthesia were confined to the index finger, the injury within the skull must have been very slight. (2) Contused wounds caused by iron-fragments totalized 25 cases occurring in 14 persons. They difi'ered greatly in their severity, but all except those stated below, were healed in due course without any interruption, and presented no interesting features worthy of record. 1st instance :—Tlus is a case of a contused wound 4 cm. long and 2 cm. wide, running forward from tlie right angle of the lower jaw along its lower horder. It was caused by one of the scattered fragments of the funnel, the lower part of which was perforated by a hostile shell. The margins of the wound were extremely ragged and the outer plate of the jaw was broken to pieces, some of which were found free, but the inner plate was not involved, nor the facial artery injured. The wound fell to suppuration, but took a favorable course, and was healed in two months. (No. 104.) 2nd instance :—From the same cause as the above, the front part of the left knee joint was struck ; the skin was widely torn, and the patella and lower end of the femur were crushed, hjemorrhage was not copious ; the popliteal artery seemed to be