WOUNDS WI'J'H LOSS OF TISSUES. 286 and the surface became clean. The subsequent course was favourable and it was perfectly healed on January 15th of the following year by cicatrization. The hip and the knee joints, however, ankylosed at an angle of about 150'^, and the swelling and numbness of the foot remained. Local bathing, massage, and forced extension, were resorted to, and the numbness was gradually relieved ; but as his walking power was not sufficient for him to return to active service, he was discharged on April 19th. (No. 279.) 2nd case : In this case a wound of 10 c. m. square was inflicted on the inner side in the middle of the right thigh ; the whole layer of the skin was carried off, so that the areolar tissues were exposed ; the wound surface and its margins were irre- gularly torn and bruised. The wound suppurated afterwards. The case was also at- tended with a blind wound in the upper part of the same thigh. However, it made favorable progress, and was cured on October 28th. (No. 254.) 3rd case : In the present case, the skin and muscles at the middle of the outer side of the left leg were carried off over an area of about 6 c. m. square attended with a large perforated wound in the abdomen. The injured man died 7 hours after the injury. (No. 173.) The four cases of wounds with loss of tissues above stated, natural- ly belong to the same category with the abrased and gutter wounds, yet on account of the extensive area of the injured parts owing to the large size of the projectiles, there was a gi-eat difference in severity compared with the other two. Especially with the case which was caused by an entire shell, the injury was naturally serious. It was produced by the compression of the skin against the rounded lateral sur- face of a shell, which, though it would not as a rule tear open tissues, yet owing to its weight and subsequent force, exerted a pressure strong enough to rend and crush the tissues. Thus the injury was not limit- ed to the part torn, but the surrounding tissues were extensively con- tused. The healing process was accordingly slow, occupying a comparatively long time. The 2nd case was produced by a shell- fragment. Judging from the area and depth of the injury, it must