83 INJURIES Oi' THE FACE, ding in the starboard waist of the lower deck, wlieu a shell struck the No. 2 port gun and burst, badly damaghig the upper deck and the skylight of the engine-roou]. The broken fragments of iron and wood showered on to the lower deck, and one of wooden splinters hit his right cheek, inflicting a contused wound 4.5 cm. long. The sub- cutaneous tissues Avere pierced, and part of the masseter lacerated ; the margins were irregular, and the wound open about 1.5 cm. It was cleansed with a carbolic lotion ; the margins pared oft' and sutured. Corrosive gauze was applied, but on the 15th, as the wound suppurated, the threads were removed, and the dressing was renewed every day. From the 22nd, the discharge of pus decreased day by day ; the granula- tion went on favourably and the wound contracted by degrees. On March 3rd, it healed by the complete formation of a cicatrix. 95. —T. Kashiwabara, aged 21, an oil-man of the Saikyo-maru, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was standing near the entrance of the engine-room, when two 30.5 cm. shells from the enemy rebounded at the same time from the sea on tlie starboard, knocked through the ward-room on the upper deck, and exploded just in front of the port side of the ward-room. One of the wooden splinters, inflicted a contused wound on his face. It was superficial, and 3 cm. long, running transversely across the right malar region. The margins were clean with a little bleeding. They were sutured and sprinkled with iodoform, and the wound covered with adhesive plaster. The wound healed by first intention on the 6th day. 96. —Contused wound of the face with contusion of the right knee joint:—^dl. Dan, aged 23, a petty officer of the Fuso, at the attack on Zhih island of the 7th February, 1895, was stationed as a signal-man of the ship's speed, and was standing by the starboard side of the fore-mast on the upper deck, when a shell pierced through the gallant-forecastle and burst. Some of the small fragments of the shell inflicted a small contused wound on the right cheek, and a contusion on the outer side of the right knee joint, the latter of which became somewhat swollen and attended with pain. The wound on the face was closed with adhesive plaster, and tliat on the knee tightly bandaged. Both lesions healed on the 15th of the same njonth. 97. —Contused wound of the face with abrasion of the left forearm and the right thigh :—G- Yamashila, aged 27, one of the crew of the fore revolving gun of the Katsm-agi, in the bombardment of the eastern fort of Liukung island on February 11th, 1895, had scarcely turned the gun so that lie could fix it, when a