IXJUEIES OF THE FACE. 101 perforations about the size of a linseed were recognized above and behind the mem- brana tympani of the left ear, and a linear laceration extending vertically from the middle of the right tympanic membrane. Botli membranes presented a slight conges- tion with slight paui but the hearing was only impaired in a slight degree. Antiseptic cotton Avool was inserted in tlie meatns and the wounds Iiealed on October 17tli. 114. —S. Nakamara, aged 39, Lieutenant of tlie Naniwa was during the same engagement as above, commanding the starboard battery, when owing to tlie vibration of the discharge of the gun the tympanic membranes of both ears were raptured. On examination, a small lacerated hole in each ear was found at the point a little above and behind the centre of the membrane, attended by a slight bleeding and loss of bearing. The meatus was protected with antiseptic cotton wool. On the 30tli of the same month, these lesions healed, but resulted in the induration of the membranes and consequently duluess of hearing. 115. —Rupture of right tympanic membrane :—T. Hikiji, aged 21, one of the crew of a Hotchkiss gun of the Hashidato, was in the same engagement as above, engaged in firing upon tlie enemy's ships from the fort of the Hotchkiss gun in the rear of the uppermost deck, when owing to the shock of firing he felt a severe pain in his right ear, which has ever since been followed by impaired hearing and ringing in the ear, with a thin turbid discharge. When the ear was washed and examined with the speculum the membrana tympani were found to be perforated,—that is, a small ver- tical lacerated slit with a smooth margin was found in the front and lower part of the centre of the membrana tympani. The membrane was congested, and turbid, the power of hearing greatly impaired showing only The meatus was washed with boracjc lotion,; boracic oil dropped into tlie ear, and an antiseptic cotton plug was inserted. On the 30tli of the same month, the discharge ceased, and the ringing in the ears somewhat decreased. On October 11th, the lacerated wound of the membrane healed leaving induration and turbidity with a power of of hearing. As it was hoped that the hearing would gradually attain a normal standard, the treatment was discontinued with the exception of the cotton wool plug which was still applied. 116. —K. Saito, aged 27, was one of the crew of a gun of the Yoshino. In the naval engagement of Pliung-do on July 25th, 1894, while firing upon'the enemy's vessels, the membrana tympani of the rigl)t ear was perforated owing to the vibration of the dis- charge of the gun. On examination, a laceration of the size of a pin's head was re- cognized in tlie front and lower part of the membrane. An antiseptic cotton wool plug