171 ixjui;:es of the lowee extremity. municated witli tlie longer part of the form?r woimd ; probably tlie former was the entrance wouud while the latter the exit. Fortunately the large vessels escaped injury and there occurred no copious haemorrhage. Besides these, there was an abrased wound 6 c. m. in diameter, over the right iliac region. To the wounds of the thigh, a drainage tube was introduced and they were dressed with antiseptic bandages. On the 18th, the dressing was renewed as it had been soiled by exuding blood. The wound on the abdomen was inflamed, and the temperature rose to 39.^6 C; but no abnormal sign in the abdominal cavity was found. The part was covered with a wet carbolic dressing; and the patient was kept in strist repose. On the 19th, the temperature lowered a little indicating 38''. 8 C. There were no unfavorable signs in the wounds Taken on board a transport, he was admitted to the Sasebo Xaval Hospital on the 21st. At that time, the inflammation of the wound had abated, the temperature had lowered to 37^. 5 C; and the wound of the thigh presented a sloughy condition and evacuated unliealthy pus. The sloughs were scraped off, followed by the application of iodoform, and a wet carbolic gauze. On the 22nd, the temperature fell to nor- mal and the wound became somewhat cleaner. By the 30th the sloughs of the thigh wound had entirely come off, the granulation had improved, and the pus dis- charge had diminished, and the abrased wound of the iliac region had almost dried np. This day the patient was transferred to the Kure Xaval Hospital. On October the 8th : the wound of tlie abdomen healed by scabbing. With that of the thigh, pus discharge gradually decreased, accompanied by the development of granulation, so that the torn surface and the canal of the wound was filled. On November the 10th : the wound on the back of the thigh was healed, and that of the inner and posterior aspect having almost ceased to discharge pus, granulation developed to the level of the skin, however, as, the torn surface was extensive, there was no hope of perfectly developing the epithelial covering, so seven small pieces of skin taken from the inner side of the left thigh, were grafted. On the 18th, five grafts had taken effect while the other two were sloughed. On the 21th, anotlier transplanta- tion with .seven pieces was tried, and on being examined on the 27th. the seven pieces of skin were found ingrafted, since then the epithelium developed gradually in a radiant shape from the grafted skin, and the surface of the wound at last became remarkably small. The conditions of the wound when examined on January the 18th, 1895 ; was such that there remained only a shallow wound on ths inner and posterior aspect of the thigh, boracic ointment was applied to it. On ^ilarch the 6th,