10 THE BATTLE OF YALt). One seaman. At the entrance of the first hatch on the fore part of the upper deck ; Two seamen acting as ammunition carriers and a signal man. On the steps of the first liatch ; A cook. 9. —-The top of mast was damaged slightly hy a shell. 10. —-The coffer-dam on the starhoard side was perforated by a shell. 11. —The lower part of the main mast was perforated by a shell. 12. —The lamich and gig were daniiiged by a shell. Of the ships comprishig our squadron, the Matsushima was the most seriously damaged, the number of deatlis and injuries on board her amounting to over one-fourth of her complement and one-third of the total force of the squadron. The subjoined report will show how hard the medical staff of the Matsushima were put to it, to per- form their duty under these trying circumstances. Eeport of medical service on board the Matsushima during tlie engagement in the Yalii sea by Surgeon M. Kusano :— At 4.57 p.m., on September IGtli, 1894, six warship.s of the principal squadron, four of the first flying squadron, the gun-boat Akagi and a transport Sailcyo-maru left Taidon bay, Korea, for the island of Haiyang, China, forming a line ahead. Eai-ly on the 17th, they arrived at their destination and ordered the Akagi to reconnoitre the inlets of Haiyang. After a short time, the gun-boat signalled " No enemy's ship visible," and the fleet proceeded towards Takooshan. At half past 10 a.m., they ob- served, in the distance, streaks of thick smoke arising above the sea level, and con- cluded that this indicated the position of the enemy, as they approached, the volume of smoke increased tremendously, and now being certain that this smoke proceeded from the enemy's fleet, the excitement and enthusiasm of the sailors were boundless. The midday meal was par-taken of earlier than usual and as soon as they had finished, tlie command " prepare for action " was given, each one taking up his respective post. I prepared myself a temporary hospital in the gun-room on the port side of the