IXJURIES OF THK LOWER EXTREMITY. I8l joint discharged pns, and had a dirt.y looking surface. The coajnnctiva of the left eye was also congested attended with pain. On examination a small iron fragment was found at the enter part of the conjnnctiva and removed directly. On the 22nd, the dressing of tlie knee Avas changed, pns was discharged copionsly, in the evening the temperatnre rose to 38°C., so a connter-opening was made on the outer and inner side, and a drainage tnhe introduced. On October 3rd the wounds on the head, face and the right forearm were healed, and thoso on the back of the hand had become small owing to the development of granulation. The wound of the knee had developed gi'anulation, so that tlie cavity of the joint was closed, the pus discharge nearly ceased, and the temperature became normal. On November 9tli botli wounds on the back of the hand were cured, and the wound of the knee had entirely closed. As the general health had become somewhat impaired a mixture of quinine and iron was administered internally. Progress continued to be favorable, and by February 20th, 1895 he was entirely healed, but the knee-joint was stifi", so local hot bathing and passive exercise were ordered On May 3rd, the patient was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospital, his stiff knee joint found hopeless; and he was dismiss- ed from the service for life. He left the hospital, and was pensioned according to regulations. (See illustration) (D) INJURIES OF THE LEG. 272. —Contusion of both legs:—H. Tokumaru, aged 24, a petty officer on the Fuso, in the course of the bombardment of Zhih Island, was on the step of the starboard ladder of the forecastle, when a shell came through the gallant forecastle and burst. Some of the flying shell fragments inflicted the following injuries :—A contused wound at the middle of the inner side of the right leg, the part was somewhat swollen owing to a small subcutaneous extravasation ; at the middle of the inner border of the right foot, a contusion some 3 c. m. square, with swelling and subcutaneous extravasation ; another small extravasation at the lower part of the front of the left leg. As the injured man was unable to walk, he was ordered to rest, and the parts were dressed with solution of acetate of lead. In due course of time, the abrased surfaces healed, the swellings disappearing at the same time. He was perfectly cured on the IStli of the same month. 273. —Contusion of the left leg :—B. Nishioka, aged 30, one of the gun- crew belonging to the Yoshino, in the attack on the eastern forts of Liukung Island,