COXTUSION. 277 and tenderness at the lower lumbar vertebrne. The patient left the hospital much relieved after a treatment of three months. (No. 100.) 8rd example.—A case of sprain of the ankle-joints as well as of the tarsal joints from the same cause. The patient could not regain the power of walking after nine months' treatment in the hospital, and thus he was placed on the invalided list for life. (No. 293.) 4th example.—By a violent vibration caused by the explosion of a hostile shell on the Hiyei, a man was knocked down and sustained a sprain of his right ankle attended by the fracture of the outer malleolus and a partial dislocation of the joint. He was treated in the hospital for three months and left almost recovered. (No. 296.) 5th example.—At the same moment, a man was thrown down from the bridge against the rail and received a contusion on tlie right clavicle attended by a fracture of the bone. He recovered in a month. (No. 188.) 6th example.—At the Luchotsai fort, a hostile shell exploded at a distance of two meters, and by the force of the explosion gas, a man was thrown down from the citadel and had his ankle joint sprained. He recovered after a month of hospital treatment. Besides these, there were cases of contusion on the right shoulder and the right side of the cliest and of s[)rains of the tarsal-joiiits, but they are not worthy of being specially recorded here. The shock ])r<)(luced bv the exphjsiou i)f ;i sshell extremely violent. For instance, when a oO.o c. m. shell exphxled on the fore part of the lower deck of the Matsushima a'nd set large amounts of gun-powder on fire, not only was the upper deck terribly sliaken but it was bent like an arch and rent wide open. Again when a oO.o c. m. shell exploded in the wardroom on the lower deck of the Hiyei, the corresponding portion on the upper deck Avas raised foiu- or tive inches, and the mark was clearly to be seen afterwards on the stan- chion. The shock being so sudden and violent, the persons present are generally thrown down, or precipitated, and thus are liable to contusion by strikng against other things. Fourteen cases out of ninteen injured