BLIND AND PE.VETRATING WOUNDS. 305 left forearm was already mortified. Accordingly, the upper arm was amputated at its middle part; and the stump was healed in 12 weeks. The injured man was then invalided for life. (No. 224.) 8th example :—In the u[)per part of the right thigh, a hlind wound was inflicted, together with a perforating wound of the right shoulder attended hy the fracture of the scapula. The blind wound of the right thigh was situated just below the Pou- part's ligament; the wound canal, taking an inward and downward direction, mea- sured 6 cm. in depth ; and the inlet was a mere fissure hardly admitting the tip of the thumb ; at the bottom, a shell fragment was found and extracted. The wound was healed in 6 weeks. (No. 193.) 9th example :—In front of the neck, there was a blind wound, by which the trachea and the (esophagus were both rent open, and the right common carotid artery being also injured, the injured man succumbed on the spot. (No. 127.) lOtli example:—Just below the Poupart's ligament, a transverse lacerated wound measuring 4.5 cm. in length and 10 cm. in depth ; at the bottom, a shell fragment was found, which being taken out measured 5 cm. in length, 2.5 cm. in widtli in its widest part, and 1.5 cm. in thickness, a piece of cloth was firmly sticking to a part of the surface of the fragment. The wound was suppurated, but finally healed in more than 4 months. (No. 254.) 11th example:—Along the 10th rib in the dorsal aspect of the left side of the chest, a penetrating wound 15 cm. long and 5 cm. wide, running obliquely along the rib and in the lower margin of the wound. The rib was broken and the lung injured, so that an emphysema resulted in the tissues around the wound. The man also sustained perforated wounds of both arms, and several lacerated wounds over the body and limbs. After a time, the subcutaneous emphysema in the back had gradually extended to the abdomen and scrotum, it however disappeared after some ten days, withoat causing any marked interference, when the wound orifice was closed by the development of healthy granulation. The wound was completely healed in 8 weeks. (No. 209.) 12th example:—At the juncture of the middle and the lower third of the right thigh, a blind wound. The femur was obliquely fractured and a shell fragment was lodged under the skin of the opposite side. Accordingly the skin was cut open, and an irregular cuboid shell fragment 2.3 cm. long, 1.8 cm. Avide and 1.5 cm. thick was extracted. The wound suppurated, and three pieces of the broken bone were