LACERA'l'ED AND MUTILATED WOUNDS. 359 of the remaining twenty-two who died on the spot are indicated with red dots on the accompanying figure-—that is, three of the crew of No. 1 gun ; one of No. 2 gun ; four of No. 3 gun ; three of the No. 4 gun ; one of the No. 5 gun; one of the No. 7 gun ; one of the No. 9 gun; six men of the magazine party; one of the torpedo-crew wlio was then assist- ina^ the mao:azine men, and one man in charo-e of the electric liofht, whose body was found near the magazine. As shown on the figure, a couple of 30.5 cm. shells came flying side by side, and one oblique- ly striking the barrel of No. 4 gun, bent it in this "/\"—shape and throwing it several feet away, it changed its course a little and passed oif, while the other shell exploded striking the shield of the same gun and broke the shield to pieces, destroyed the windlass in the middle of the deck, and scattered a great cj[uantity of shell-fragments and iron- pieces ; at the same time a great deal of ammunition exploded. (The amount of ammunition that was set on iire could not be ascertained, but according to tlie report of the Matsushima, there seem to have been six 12 cm. steel shells and 61 ordinary shells, the quantity of powder in this ordinary shell was estimated at 9.751 Kilog. per cartridge), ijy this explosion of the ammunition, the lower deck was rent, the upper deck bent, and a fire broke out. Those who were near the place of the explosion of the ammunition—the crew of Nos. 1 and 2 guns and especially those of Nos. 3 and 4 guns and the magazine party—would naturally receive dreadful wounds by shell-fragments, iron-pieces and explosion-gas in fact their bodies were torn to atoms. But strangely enough, among the crew of Nos. 7 and 9 guns that were distant from the place of explosioi:, some were missing. It might have been ex- pected that lacerated wounds might have been produced at such a dis- tance ; but such serious injuries as to pulverize the body and limbs seem almost impossible, accordingly the circumstances at the time of