IN.TUEIES OF THE HEAD. 72 50— Compound fracture of the forehead :—M. Yamashiro, aged 28, a man of No. 6 three pounder in the Yoshino. During tlie bombardment of the eastern fort of Liulcung island on Februar}' 7th, 1895, he was standing by the side of No. 6 three- pounder on the netting of the port side of the waist, when a slicU struck against the shield of the gun. The shell itself did not explode, but the shield was smashed into pieces. One of these pieces inflicted a lacerated wound in the middle of the coronary suture ; tlie bone of that part and the left orbital plate were fractured, the brain was crushed, and the man killed on the spot. 51— Compound fracture of the head, face and left upp:r arm with contused wound of chest and left leg K. Ushijima, aged 21, a seaman of the Yoshino. At the time of the engagement in the Yellow sea, September 17th, 1894, he was standing, as a shell-carrier, between the right and left ventilators on the upper deck of tlie after quarter, wlien a shell pierced through the starboard netting and striking against two 12 cm', shells placed side by side on the inner side of the netting. All three shells exploded at once. One of the fragments, inflicted a fracture of the frontal bone 6 cm. long and 3 cm. wide which riin obliquely from the left side of the forehead to tlie region over the coronary suture. Brain substance came out of the wound and lie died on the spot. Besides, there were found many otlier contased wounds, some with fracture : several on the forehead, one over the left canthus, another over the right corner of the mouth, and others over the middle of the cliin and on the right malar region; the face was blackened all over by the explosion of tlie gas. On the chest again, there were several others reaching down to the ribs. There were also: simple fracture at the middle of the left liumerns, a compound fracture of the left forearm, and burns of both legs with a lacerated wound on the outer side of the left leg. 52.—Contused wound of forehead with a fracture of the base of the cranium :—K. Odajima, aged 19, a cook of the Fuso. In the attack on the forts of Zhih island on February 7th, he was standing under the starboard forecastle as carrier of the wounded, when a hostile shell passed through the gallant-forecastle and burst. He was wounded on the left side of the forehead. It was a crescent- shaped lacerated wound 6.5 cm. long, running from a point about 3 cm. above the outer end of the superciliary ridge, upward and inward ; it terminated beyond the margin of the hair. At the bottom of the wound, the periosteum was stripped off, but tlie bone was left intact. The wound was sutured with two stitches, and an