343 PERFORATED WOUNDS. that of the entrance hole ; but strangely enough it was somewhat larger. If the report was not erroneous, there is no other explanation, than to a!-sume that the shell-fragment after entering the tissues, changed its flying axis and broke the skin at the exit with a larger surface than when it entered, or the shell-fragment was one with very strong force. When a conical bullet having a greater velocity produces a perforating wound, the entrance hole is generally round and some- what smaller in its diameter than that of the bullet, and the exit hole presenting a lacerated fissure is a little longer than the entrance hole, just as was seen in the entrance and exit holes of the 1st instance. Therefore, it is not strange that the same result should be produced by a shell-fragment having a great velocity. Only it is very rare that a shell-fragment has so great a velocity. In the iSth instance the inlet measured 18 cm. long, 3 cm. W'ide, and 1.5 cm. deep, and the exit was of an irregular round form 5 cm. in diameter. The existance of a long inlet resembled the 11th instance of penetrating wounds, where the shell-fragment must have -struck the part parallel with its course, and so first produced a grooved wound ; but the large size of the exit without injury to the scapula seems rather anomalous, and it makes us suspect that it may not have been the exit but the inlet. However, as will be seen from the blind wound received on the neck at the same moment, the shell-fragment of which came from tlie right side, it is certain that the man must have stood where he could receive the shell-fragment from this direction. The problem is still more inexplicable if Ave assume the iibove men- tioned grooved wound to have been the exit, for a shell-fragment pass- ing beneath the skin in a parallel line, Avould be almost certainly un- able to pierce it in such a manner as to produce a long grooved wound at its exit. But how are we to account for the exit being so large ?