BURNS. 203 325. —Estensive bnrns with penetrating wound of the cranium:— J. Nakasliima, aged 21, a junior bantlsmau stationed as a l>earer of wounded on the fore-quarter of the lower deck ; died next morning. 326. —Estensive burns with contused wounds of the left arm:— S. Hamano, aged 25, one of No. G side-gun crew ; died next day. 327. —Burns : (covering about if of the body) K. Doslurao, aged 30, a gunner of the Matsushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was standing by the fort of No. 7 side-gun on the starboard side in the fore part of the lower deck, when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell burst against'the shield of No. 4 side-gun on the port side of the same deck, igniting the ammunition provided for the side-gun ; from the explosion extensive burns of the 2nd degree were caused, covering the head, face, the whole of the left upper limb, right forearm, hand, and the entire surface of both lower extremities. The injured man was immediately carried to the cabin and the burnt surface dressed with oiled lint, and brandy administered. On the 18th, no marked change ; the patient took only a little quantity of condensed milk. On the 19th, the dress- ings were renewed ; exhaustion seemed increasing. Brandy and water was given at intervals. On the 20th, he was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital, when the burned parts presented a black eschar with adhering grains of powder and points of suppuration, while here and tliere, the true dermis was exposed. As a dressing a solu- tion of boracic acid on lint was applied, and the patient given brandy frequently during the night, the thermometer showed 37^. C C. with distress and sleeplessness. On the 21st, the temperature rose to 38^ C, the mind seemed to be clear except for occasion- al delirium. The dressings were soiled by serous pus and they were changed. In the evening he complained of great pain, and doses of opium were given as a hypno- tic. On the 22nd, a small quantity of urine Avas passed for the first time since his admission to the hospital. Dressings were renewed. The burned epidermis was almost exfoliated. Tliat night the temperature rose to 39'^ C, and the next morning it remained the same ; a dose of quinine was given and the dressings changed. In the afternoon the thermometer indicated 38.^8 C, delirium was frequent and the distress intense. At 5 o'clock in the afternoon sudden collapse supervened and he died at 6.30 p.m. (the temperatures given here were taken from the chart after admission to the hospital). 328. —C. Kosugi, aged 28, clerk on board the Matsu.shima, during the battle of (he Ye'low S3a, was assigned as a carrier of the wounded. At 3. 26 p. m. he was