86 INJUllIES OF THE FACE. causing suppuration. Tlie wounds were treated with carbolic lotion and sublimate gauze. The sloughs having come off on the 14th day a granulation set in favourably and the lesion lessened remarkably. On October 10th, both wounds were completely healed by cicatrization. (B) WOUNDS OF THE FACE WITH FEAGTUEE. 102. —Compound fracture of nasal bone with abrasion of the right side of the chest:—Y. Nagamine, aged 33, a petty officer of the Matsnshima in charge of the after magazine. In the battle of the Yellow sea, he was passing the waist of the lower deck, to inspect the supply of shells, when a 30.5 cm. shell exploded in the fore part of the lower deck, and one of its fragments inflicted a contused wound on the dorsum of his nose, with fracture of the right side of the nasal bone. Another fragment made a small abrasion over the region of the 10th rib, in front of the right side of the chest. Iodoform was sprinkled on the wounds and sublimate gauze applied, and fixed with adhesive plaster. On September 20th, the abrasion of the chest had healed up, while there was a little discharge from the wound of the nose, attended with a slight swelling around its margin. The wound was washed with carbolic lotion and covered with iodo- form gauze,which was changed every other day. On the 30th, the discharge had nearly ceased and the surface of the wound was greatly reduced by tbe development of granulation. Treatment contiiuied as before, the bandage being renewed twice a week. On October 15th, the wound on the dorsum of the nose was nearly healed leaving only a surface of granulation, the size of a bean to which boracic ointment was applied. On the 26th a cicatrix formed so fairly, that the wound healed without leaving any striking deformity. 103. —Compound fracture of superior maxillary bone (accompanied by retinal hcemorrhage) with penetrating wound of left arm and contused wound of left forearm :—T. Hanamitsu, aged 24, a man of No. 4 q.f. gun of the Akagi. In the battle of the Yellow sea, he was temporarily ordered to turn the pump and was hurrying to the fore part of the upper deck, when fragments of a hostile hell flew up from the under part of the shield of No. 3 gun, and inflicted several wounds on his face and left upper extremity. On examination the wounds were found to be as follows :—first, a wound 1 cm. in diameter just below the left eye, passing into tl)e antrum of Highmore; Bleeding was profuse, but the posterior wall of the antrum