COXTUSBD WOUND. 295 tioned to the 60 cases of various wounds |)roduced by the same cause, would bear a ratio of 41.67 per cent. This kind of Avound therefore stands highest among tlie various wounds by iron-]iieces. Compared with 33.56 per cent whicli is the ratio of c<:intused Avounds owing to shell-fragments, this wound seems to have a comparatively larger rate. This is perhaps due to the tact, that though many of tlie iron-pieces are big and heavy, and irregular in shape, yet the velocity is less than tliat of shell fragments and more lit to produce contused Avounds or con- tusions. The contusion of the tissues around the Avounds are the same Avith those caused by shell-fragments in character; for instance, in the 1st instance above mentioned, though the outer plate of the lower jaAv Avas broken, yet the inner plate was sound. In the 3rd instance, a small shallow circumscribed depi-ession Avas produced on the outer side of the loAver end of the humerus. In the 4th instarjce, 2 or 3 fissures some 2 cm. in length Avere produced on the inner side of the upper part of the right tibia. These limited sliallovv lesions of bones Avere perhaps due to tiie fact, that the bony surface Avas directly liit by an edge of an iron-fragment. Had a part aboundiijg in soft tissues been hit, a blind Avound Avould surely liave been produced. The said iron- piece being small and Aveak in force could not perhaps inflict more than a slight injury to the bone. It can easily be seen that a missile like bullet Avhich is so great in velocity and has so obtuse a surface, would often inflict injuries more severe than in the present case; but a projectile like an iron-piece Avhich has sharp edges but a Aveak striking- force, is more fit to produce a bone injury of this kind. The 2nd in- stance is the case of a great contused Avound in the front part of the knee-joint, in which the patella and the loAver end of the femur Avere smashed, and an amputation Avas performed. Haemorrhage ^vas slight at the time of the injury, and the popliteal artery Avas found safe, yet considered from the gangrene Avhich set in s(3on after, there must pro-