26 THE BATTLE OF YALt". Flu-ther, during the preparjition for action previous to the engag-e- ment. a man in charge of a torpedo-tube was injured while conveying a tor[>edo; also, sevei'al ropes were cut either by shells or splinters; but no record is made of these cases, as they were not accompanied by any personid injuries. At the battle of the Yellow sea, it was the Hiyei that bore the biniiit of the fight. On one occasion, she was wholly surrounded by the enemy's sliips and her fate seemed almost sealed : consequently the damages and losses she sustained were exceedingly great. For the numbers of killed and wounded, she stands next to the Matsusliima. To complete the tale of her disasters, the surgery was utterly destroyed hy a shot and the whole of her medical staff either killed or severely wounded. The wounded were thus compelled to rely upon non-medical men for temporary relief; and it was not until the ship returned to the fleet station, near the Choppeki Cape, that she was at last able to have the sufferers treated by the surgeons from other ships. The report below, furnished by Chief Surgeon B. Tomatsnri, who was principally engaged in the management of the wounded, and other medical affairs after the disabling of the Hiyei's medical staff, will throw some light on the details of the hard fight and the behaviour of the medical men during that time. Eeport from personal observations on the management of the killed and wounded in the battle of the Yellow sea, by B. Tomatsuri, Chief Surgeon of tlie Hiyei, succeed- ing the late Surgeon T. Miyake. The naval tight between the Japanese and Chinese fleets at the Yellow sea ou the 17th September, 1894, lasted as long as five hours, the fight being carried on with the utmost energy and courage on both sides, and with ships and machinery of the latest style. Our fleets therefore could not escape a large loss in killed and wounded. Personal observations of the management of the sufferers on each vessel engaged, can not I believe, but be of great benefit to those who serve in the medical and sanitary departments of the navy. The Hiyei was in the thickest of the fight, but un- fortunately her two surgeons were killed during the battle and the circumstances of the time can not therefore be obtained from any surgeon actually engaged during the battle. At the time of the engagement, t was at the fleet rendezvous on board tlie transport Doyo-maru. The following morning, I came on board the Hiyei when