]40. INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. lessened. By October 18th, the woniid had healed hj ihe formation of a slender cicatrix. 204. —Blind wound of right upper arm with burns of face and arm :— S. Fnrnta, aged 24, a magazine-man on the Matsushima at the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was hauling up shells in the fore magazine, wlien a 30.5 cm. shell from the enemy struck the shield of No. 4 side gun in the fore part of the lower deck. One of the flying fragments of shell inflicted a blind wound on the outer side of the middle of the right upper arm. The inlet of the wound measured 2 cm. in diameter and G cm. in depth, the passage taking an upward and outward course through the soft tissues. At the same time the ammunition provided for the side- guns on tlie lower deck was set on fire, and he received burns from the flame of the explosion of 1st degree almost all over the face, and of 2nd degree on the outer side of the left upper arm. All the injuries were antiseptically treated and the patient, on the 20th, was conveyed to Sasebo Naval Hospital. In the hospital, Avet boracic gauze was applied to the burns, and a counter opening was made to the blind wound on the right upper arm, a drainage tube was introduced and carbolic gauze ap- plied. On October 7th, the burns had completely healed and on December 17th, the wound of the arm was cured ; so he returned to duty. 205. —Blind wound of left upper arm :—J. Harauo, aged 21, stoker of the Itsnkushima at the Naval engagement of the Yellow sea, was standing, as one of the fire brigade on the uppermost grating in the fore engine-room on the upper deck, when a hostile shell exploded after penetrating the fore larboard netting. From one of the shell-fragments, he received a blind wound of the soft tissues in the front part of the ujjper third of the left arm. The inlet of the lacerated wound was 2 cm, in diameter, and located at the inner margin of the deltoid; it was 4 cm. deep reaching to the humerus but without injuring the periosteum or bone. After temporary treat- ment on board the ship, the patient was, on the 21st, admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital. At that time^ the wound was found to be clean with very slight discharge of pus and an antiseptic bandage was applied. On the 30th, he was transferred to the Kure Naval Hospstal. Afterwards the case progressed favourably and the surface of the wound cicatrized on the 14th October. However, as the injured limb could not be raised above the level of the shoulder and at the same time the grasping power was impaired, active movements of the limb and stimulating liniment were ordered. Thus free movement was gradually restored, and on November 5th, he returned to duty.