INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 148 corrosive gauze. Oii the lltli, the patieut was admitted to tlie Sasebo Naval Hospital. The injuries of the face healed before long, and that of the fore-arm developed favor- able granulation with gradual formation of epithelium. On the 27th of the same mouth, the patient left the hospital completely cured. 217. —Contused wound of the left fore-arm :—M. Tajima, aged 26, a sea- man on board the Hiyei, in the course of the engagement of the Yellow sea, was working with the elevator of No. 9 gun in the stern, when a shell broke through the stern port to starboard. One of the flying wooden splinters caused a contused wound 18 cm. long and 5 cm. wide, running downward and outward from the elbow along the back of the upper third of the left fore-arm, and changing its direction in its course to downward and inward. The margins of the wound were lacerated but the skin only was pierced. An antiseptic bandage was applied, the wound progressed favourably and on October 6th perfectly healed by forming a cicatrix. 218. —Gutter wound of the right fore-arm :—S. Tanaka, aged 34, chief gunner of the Hiyei, in the course of the naval fight of the Yellow sea, in order to get ammunition, was passing in front of the gun-room in the 4th quarter on the lower deck, when an enormous shell of the enemy exploded in the ward-room of the 5th quarter and caused a wound on the right fore-arm by one of the shell-fragments. As all the medical staff on board were killed at the time, he had to be only tem- porarily dressed by a shipmate, and was properly treated by one of the surgeons from another ship^ when she arrived at the station near Cape Choppeki next morning. Condition of the wound:—On the ulnar side at the upper third of the right fore-arm was found an oblong grooved wound 3 cm. in length and 1.5 cm. in width running obliquely. The bottom of the wound reached beneath the skin, but without giving any injury to the muscles or bones. An antiseptic dressing was applied, and by October 7th, the granulating surface of the wound had grown new epithelium from the borders, zinc ointment was applied, and by the 24th the wound was perfectly healed. 219. —Gutter wound of the left fore-arm :—Y. Wakinaga, aged 25, one of the torpedo crew belonging to the Matsushima, in the engagement of the Yellow sea, was on duty in the middle torpedo-chamber on the starboard side, when a 30.5 cm. hostile shell exploded in the fore part of the lower deck and one of the shell- fragments breaking into the said chamber through the bulkhead inflicted a grooved wound 6 cm. long, 4 cm. wide and 1. 5 cm. deep, running laterally from the radial side to the ulnar on the back part of the lower fourth of the left fore-arm. Tern-