389 SUPPUKA'l'IOX. Hence, in order to prevent a shell-Tvound from suppurating, ordinary antiseptic measures are of no avail ; strict precautions must be taken under careful manao-ement. The usual method of disinfection nowa- days is, before an operation, first, to cleanse the skin of the part with soap and warm water, next to rub witli a brush, and then to ir- rigate an antiseptic solution like carbolic acid, followed by a cover of cloth dipped in the same solution. If the disinfection of instruments &c., be also perfectly etiected, the operation Avill mostly prove success- ful without any fear of suppuration. It has l^een however proved, by experiments, that if a superficial laver of the disinfected skin, be sliced otf for an experimental cultivation, the growth of micro-organism will o-enerallv be observed. This shows that there still lie some micrt^- organism concealed in the skin after the usual disinfection, which may sometimes find their way to the operated surface. But in a case like this, the tissues of the wound surfice are destroyed only to a thin mi- croscopical depth, whilst the surrounding tissues are healthy and re- tain their streniJth of resistance, and the micco-oro-anisms enteririo- that part are very few in number, therefore the multiplication of micro- organism is prevented and the first union is generally successful. I)Ut though such antiseptic measures naay prove effective with usual wounds, Avith shell-wounds they can not be said to be perfect ; for when invad- ed by pus cocci hidden in the skin, however few they be, the surround- ing tissues which have lost their resisting power, are very liable to suppurate. This is one of the causes that make shell-wounds suppu- rate more frequently. Again, it is a ^'ery difficult matter to obtain a suitable surgerv in every ship, and temporary surgeries in the ward- room or the gan room, are often extremeh' iruidecjuate viewed from an antiseptic point of view. ^Lrreover during a Ixattle, the scuttles are mostly closed up. and light and ;iir excluded ; the firing of guns keep