INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 134 tiou was liealtlij^, and no sign of inflammation existnl. After irrigation of the sinus with carbolic lotion, a wet carbolic ganze was applied, and 15 gr. of quinine given. The next morning, the high temperature continued with nausea and vomiting. On March 1st, vesicles formed around the wound of the upper arm, and a red patch over the upper part of the spine of scapula, presented characteris- tic signs of erysipelas. Ichthyol Avas painted on the part, and strict antiseptic measures were continued for the wound. Internally a mixture of quinine and tincture of perchloride of iron was given ; but the symptoms aggravated notwithstand- ing, and the erysipelatous patch extending more and more, the right upper arm, neck, and back were congested all over, finally affecting the face above and tlie buttoclcs below. The temperature had an irregular fluctuation, the patient became gradually exhausted a)id at length died from collapse on the 17th of March. 193.—Perforating wound of the right shoulder, blind wound of right thigh and Abrasion of left leg:—T. Kashio, aged 18, a stoker of the Itsukushima, at the naval engagement of the Yellow sea, on September 17th, 1894, was in the after boiler-room, when, after breaking through the coal-bunker of the starboard waist, a hostile shell exploded against the ladder set against the middle- step of the said boiler-room. Some of the fragments of shell, iiithcted a perforating wound which entered by the outer end of the right clavicle and passed out at the upper part of the spine of the right scapula, and a blind wound just below the Ponpart's ligament of the right thigh. The patient was temporarily dressed on board and was admitted to the Sasebo Naval Hospital on the 21st. Examined at the hospital, the entrance wound at the outer end of the clavicle was found to be of an oval shape of the size of a thumb-head, and the exit in the scapular region to be smaller and irregularly torn ; the wounds being probed into, fractures of the spine of scapula and outer end of clavicle were recognized. The wound at the upper part of the right thigh was not large enough to admit the end of the thumb, and taking its course inwards and downwards, it measured G c. m. in depth, and a foreign substance was felt at the bottom. Besides, on the inner side of the left leg were found three abrasions, which however had already been dried by the formation of scabs. Under an antesthetic, the wound over the scapula was cut open, and five broken pieces of bone of some 3 c. m., were extracted from it, while from that of the right thigb, a shell fragment of the size of a thumb-head was extracted (see the illustration No. 6). The wounds were treated antiseptically. On October 2Stb, the wound at the inguinal