6 neighbourhood of the abdominal wound, while about an ounce of blood clot, entirely unchanged, lay in the bottom of the pelvis. She appeared to have died from prolonged shock. Ovariotomy.—In the fatal case many adhesions existed, and death occurred from peritonitis. Tracheotomy.—This case occurred in an infant thirteen months old, who, when creeping along the kitchen floor, contrived to lay its hands on a phial containing a small quantity of oil of vitriol, of which it sucked apparently only a small portion, when it dropped the bottle. The mother found the child lying in great distress, with face red and congested, struggling for breath and attempting to vomit. A few hours after the accident it was taken to the infirmary, and tracheotomy performed by my late assistant, Mr. T. B. Adam. The case progressed favourably, and, as the baby was able to swallow next morning, it seems probable that none of the acid passed into the oesophagus. Dislocations.—One of the dislocations was the rare posterior displacement of the humerus, with the head of the bone lying on the dorsum of the scapula, below the spine. It was of six months' duration, and the head of the bone could be seen distinctly from behind, and felt rotating under the hand on moving the arm about. The patient, a child a trifle over six months old, held its arm a little from the side and carried forwards: the hand was so turned that the palmar surface looked backwards, exactly in the position in which a swimmer places his arm and hand when giving the stroke. The movements of the arm in relation to the body were very free, the hand always tending towards pronation. The arm could not, without difliculty, be carried backwards beyond the middle line of the body, and the upper arm was, of course, shortened. Reduction was effected with comparative ease, but after six weeks' trial the head of the bone always returned to its ab- normal position. Dr. Knox, one of ray colleagues, gives, in the Glasgow Medical Journal for this month, a most interesting account of two cases of the same rare variety