the entire proti-usion consisted' of the rectum behind, the bladder in front, with the uterus between. The pessary- had eaten its way through the posterior wall of the bladder. The fistula was cured by two operations, and by another the edges of the vaginal orifice were pared, after returning the protrusion, and brought together by deep and superficial sutures. Union was entirely satis- factory. Removal of utei^s for fihro-cystic disease.—Mrs. B , aged thirty-two, observed for the last five years a gradually growing tumour in the abdomen. During the last twelve months the growth has increased more rapidly. On open- ing the abdomen, a tumour, not unlike a football in size, shape, and appearance, presented itself To the touch it gave the idea of a very thick walled cyst containing fluid, and was adherent to the parietal peritoneum, nearly ascend- ing to the border of the liver, also glued to the small intestines, while below it sprang from the uterine mass by a pedicle as thick as the forearm. The cyst was tapped, giving escape to a quantity of glairy fluid, after which, the globular shape being still retained, the trocar wound was enlarged, the hand introduced, and the semi-solid contents broken up and removed. The pedicle was then transfixed, tied, and severed close to the enlarged uterus. The latter was now observed to be filling the true pelvis, and was jammed in the transverse diameter of the brim. By placing the hand on the anterior and posterior surface, I was enabled to rotate the uterus slightly, and to draw it upwards, then to transfix and divide the thickened cervix. In dressing the case I employed, for the first time, Dr. Keith's drainage tube, and much regret that I was unfamiliar with its management. It was removed on the fourth day, and probably taken away too early. The poor woman made a hard and prolonged struggle for life. Her temperature never rose above 101°; as one of my colleagues said, " She had not strength enough to get up a temperature." She died on the eighth day, and post-mortem examination revealed only very slight traces of inflammation in the