89 Raisin Pudding.—Wash and stone eight ounces of fine raisins and let these soak overnight in just sufficient cold boiled water to cover them. Butter a pudding basin and put the raisins into it; beat together two fresh eggs, four ounces of sugar, half-a-gill of cream and a teaspoonful of grated fresh lemon peel. Then mix six ounces of wholemeal flour with a gill of boiled milk, add this to the egg mixture, and mix the whole, and pour it over the raisins until the basin is nearly full, adjust the cover and boil or steam the pudding for three hours. If you have not the adjustable-lid pudding basins, use buttered paper neatly pasted over and down the sides of the basin. Serve this pudding with home-made or Devon- shire cream. Prunes or Damsons can be used in place of raisins and the pudding made precisely the same way. These puddings are very nutritious and sustaining in the winter season. Rhubarb Pudding.—Wash, but do not peel, one and a half pounds of fresh young garden rhubarb ; cut it into a china basin ; cover it with just enough cold boiled water, and add eight ounces of sugar and a dessertspoonful of grated fresh lemon peel; steam it until cooked. Butter a pudding basin and sift into it a light sprinkling of sugar ; line it with granose biscuits or wholemeal toast, and pour into this the cooked rhubarb ; put a layer of biscuit, or toast over it, adjust the cover and steam it one hour ; let it cool, then turn it out and serve it with home-made cream. Tapioca Pudding.—Have one measure of carefully washed tapioca in a baking dish ; add just enough cold boiled water to cover it and soak it for forty minutes ; then grate the third of a small nutmeg into half-a-measure of sugar and stir this into the tapioca ; then add three measures of clean milk and stir into the whole two teaspoonsful of almond or nut butter. Bake it in a m^oderate oven for one hour. Serve it with seasonable fresh, or stewed fruits. This pudding can be improved by adding two beaten eggs and a pint of clean milk, with a little more sugar, and a lemon or orange flavouring; and by exercising a little thought it can be