90 modified in several ways, The same methods can be applied to the making of sago, or rice puddings. Sultana Pudding.—Make a batter from six ounces of flour ; six ounces of sugar ; three whipped fresh eggs, and a gill of steril- ized milk. Add to this two ounces of grated pine kernels, half a grated nutmeg, and eight ounces of clean washed sultanas ; mix the whole; then pour the batter into a pudding basin which has been buttered and has a sifting of sugar over it. Steam the pudding for three hours and serve it with lemon sauce and fresh fruits. Plain Plum Pudding—V/ash and stone six ounces of raisins ; pick over and wash three ounces of currants; let both soak overnight in a little water. Peel, core and mince two large and perfect apples ; mince four ounces of fresh lemon and orange pee! ; mill, or chop finely, four ounces of almonds; and grate one third of an average nutmeg. Add four ounces of sugar, the grated nut- meg, and what little water which may not have been absorbed by the currants and raisins, to a fresh egg and beat the whole ; then add the currants, raisins, apples, peel and nuts, and mix these well, and lastly, beat into this four tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour in small quantities. Pour the mixture into a pudding boiler and adjust the cover, and steam it for three hours. Christmas Pudding.—Wash and stone ten ounces of fine raisins, carefully pick over and wash eight ounces of large currants ; put both into a clean bowl and soak them for twenty-four hours in sufficient water to cover them, then drain them. Beat together four fresh eggs, six ounces of sugar and a little water which may have been drained from the fruit. Have six ounces of white or wholemeal flour in a fresh bowl ; mix into this eight ounces of finely shredded apples ; mill, or grate six ounces of blanched sweet almonds ; two ounces of blanched bitter almonds, or apricot kernels, and add these to the flour and apples ; then add four ounces of pine kernels, eight ounces of finely minced candied peel (mixed), a little citron and half a grated nutmeg ; now pour into this the