A COURSE OE CLINICAL SURGERY, DELIVERED TO THE STUDENTS OF THE GLASGOW EOYAL INFIKMARY; WITH STATISTICAL TABLES, SHOWma THE DISEASES TREATED, AND THE OPERATIONS PERFORMED, IN THIS HOSPITAL, AS ALSO THE COMPARATIVE EXPENSE OF MEDICAL EDUCATION THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE. BY M. S. BUCHANAN, M. D., PaOFESSOK. OF ANATOMY, ANDERSON's UNIVERSITy, MEMBER OF THE FACULTY OP PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS, SENIOR SURGEON TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, ETC. GLASGOW: PRINTED BY FULLARTON & CO., VILLAFIELD. 1844.M. S. BUCHANAN. TO THE SURGICAL PUPILS ATTENDING THE GLASGOW ROYAL INFIRMARY. Gentlemen, The Glasgow Royal Infirmary is still so little known and appreciated, as a practical school of Medicine and Surgery, that I have felt it my duty, as senior surgeon, and about a third time to retire by the regulations of this House from my labours, to proclaim its advantages more extensively than heretofore, by publishing the introductory remarks which I addressed to you at the commencement of this Session. Having visited all the largest and most celebrated hospitals in Europe during the last 25 years, it cannot, I hope, be deemed presumptuous that I should institute comparisons which may tend to the advantage of our own establishment, and by this means place it on a more stable foundation in public estimation than it has ever previously enjoyed. If such shall be the result of this investigation, the labour which I have bestowed in its prosecution shall not have passed unrewarded. Meantime, with best wishes for your future success, believe me. Yours sincerely,LECTURE INTRODUCTORY TO A COUESE OF CLimCAL SUE&EEY. Gentlemen, From the vast variety of interesting cases which of late have been admitted under my care into the surgical wards of this Hospital, as well as in consequence of the important operations which you have seen me perform, it ought to be my duty in the present lecture at once to proceed to the proper business of our course. On all occasions of this kind, however, I have felt an anxiety that a right understanding should exist between the medical and surgical officers of the house and the attending pupils; and on this account it has been my practice to devote a part of the first hour at least of our Clinical course to introductory matter. My hospital colleague, who has preceded me, has no doubt informed you, in his prefatory address, of the great importance of this part of your medical education, of the method which you ought to adopt in its prosecution, and also of the duties which devolve on you as hospital pupils, whether in the wards, the operating theatre, the6 ledure-room, or the dispensary; and I therefore take it for granted that this draught has been served up to you secundum artem^ and has acted (Hke our hospital black infusion) as a valuable stimulant to the primce vice, and has thus prepared you for the reception and digestion of all that intellectual aliment about to be presented during the succeeding winter session. Such being the case, it is my intention in the present lecture to confine myself to a very brief outline of the advantages which, as Surgical pupils, you enjoy in attending this hospital, and contrast them with those possessed by your cotemporaries either at home or abroad, leaving to some future period a more mature delineation of Continental hospital management and practice. In order to do justice to this preliminary part of hospital statistics, it is necessary that we analyze somewhat minutely the materials upon which our conclusions are founded; and therefore we first advert to the locality of Glasgow and the nature of its population. Situated in the centre of one of the most extensive commercial, manufacturing, engineering, and mining districts in the world, it presents to the eye of the philanthropist the busiest field of industry and activity any where to be met with. The number and variety of severe and appalling accidents which are of every day occurrence, arising from this state of society, and demanding all the " intrepidity and dexterity of the surgeon, render the surgical wards of this Infirmary more like those of a mihtary hospital after a sanguinary engagement than7 those of a civil establishment. It is not, however, to the city alone that our attention must be directed; the surrounding country, containing a population of nearly 1,000,000 inhabitants, furnishes us with many of our important hospital cases; and though attempts have been made to prove the insalubrity of the wards of our Hospital, and the impropriety of conveying patients to it from a distance, either for operation or treatment, yet so unsuccessful have these attempts been, that there is scarcely a case of moment oc- curring in the whole West of Scotland which is not instantly sent for admission to this noble Institution. But it is not so much to the amount as to the quality of the above dense population, that we must refer for the explanation of many of those advantages which you enjoy in attending these wards, and though at first sight little difference may be thought to arise from this cause, still, if the Surgical wards of the Hospitals of Edinburgh or Dublin, Rome or Eiorence, Berlin or Vienna, or indeed any of the most populous of the merely aristocratic capitals of Europe, are examined with the view of comparing them, as I have done, with those of Glasgow, this element will be found of the last importance.—Look to the statistics of these cities,—to the occupations in which their plebeian population are engaged, or the diseases and accidents to which they are liable, and you will not fail to remark that they are of a totally different nature from those of this locality. A very large class of the population of the above capitals consists of household servants with all the subordinates minis- tering to the wants of their superiors, and also of8 handicraftsmen, such as tailors, shoemakers, hatters, hosiers, &c. Now, if we contrast these classes with the engineers, miners, mechanics, and general oper- atives who compose the largest portion of the population of this city and surrounding country, we shall not be surprised at the difference in the quality of their respective hospital cases. In the first, I found chronic diseases in all their varieties almost exclusively to occupy their surgical wards—affections of the joints, ulcers, scrofulous abscesses, &c., mon- opolize their hospitals. And so strikingly was this the case in the hospitals of the capitals of Saxony and Bavaria—both schools of Practical Surgery— that on my inquiring, when visiting them last summer, for their accident wards, I was told that no such divi- sion of their Surgical Hospital had been ever contem- plated ; and so destitute were they of acute cases that not a single fracture nor stump could be shown me. The same observation not only applies to Munich and Dresden, but to all of a similar class throughout Europe. Now, in examining the records of our Hospital, which have been, ever since its foundation, kept with mathematical accuracy, I find that for the last three years, ending 31st December, 1842, there have been performed 130 amputations, most of them capital operations; that the cases of simple fracture admitted during the same period have been 492, those of compound fracture 165, and of lacerated, contused, incised, punctured, and gun-shot wounds, no less than 165. Indeed, the more closely our hospital statistics are investigated, and the more accurately they are compared with those of other9 localities, so much the more will it be found that the Glasgow Royal Infirmary presents at all times perhaps the most important gallery of acute surgical disease of any in the world. But it may be said, that it is not to the quality of the cases, or their acuteness, as illustrative of surgical disease, so much as to the number and variety under the pupil's observation, that we must attend. And, in a qualified sense, I grant the truth of this remark; for it has ever been my opinion, that the larger the exhibition, provided the cases are equally interesting, so much the more is it to the advantage of the student. Unfortunately, however, in mj investigations on this subject, I have discovered that in proportion to the largeness of the gallery, so do the cases diminish in interest. In illustration of what I have here advanced, I may ver}^ shortly allude to the condition of a few of the largest hospitals in the world,—those of Vienna, Hamburgh, and Berlin. Without animadverting on the locality of the Hospital at Vienna—of which 7 could say much— there is no establishment, either at home or abroad, which I have seen, so ill-constructed in regard to ventilation, consisting as it does of a succession of six small quadrangular courts surrounded with buildings, three, and some of them four, stories in height, and without the slightest attempt at archi- tectural beauty or convenient interior arrange- ment. The patients, generally about 2,000 in number, are classified into medical, surgical, ophthal- mic, syphilitic, maniacal, and obstetrical. The three first classes are alone presented to the observation of B10 the pupils. The wards of the three last are, for what reason I could not understand, hermetically sealed, both from the eyes of the student and the stranger. So much has been written on the superiority of the ophthalmic clinique of Beer and Rosas, who have successively operated as surgeons in this Hospital, that scarcely any thing new from me can be expected. That I happened to visit the wards at an unfavourable moment was my misfortune; but having examined the tables of the diseases treated and the operations performed by my friend Professor Von Rosas for several years, I found that the paucity of interesting cases under his care did not wholly proceed from the season of the year, but in consequence of the monopoly of such cases having passed from his hands. I am well aware that many trifling cases which are prescribed for in the poly clinique, as it is called, or dispensary of Vienna, are not recorded in the lists to which I above refer; but when I inform you all of the great advantage which you may derive in this city by attending the clinique of my friend Dr. Mackenzie, in whose ophthalmic hospital more than 1,000 patients are annually brought under your observation, I feel convinced that none of you will require to resort to Germany for obtaining a knowledge of the diseases of the eye. With respect to the Surgical wards of this great German metropolitan establishment, a very few re- marks will suffice, which are with equal propriety applicable to those of Hamburgh and Berlin. In these hospitals, the number of beds reckoned as surgical is large, amounting on an average to 300 ; but if the re-11 gulations as to admission and residence of the patients are investigated, it will be seen how little the pupil has to gain by a study of such cases. To my great astonishment, in going the round of the above Hospitals with my friends Dr. Gerson of Hamburgh, Dr. Graem of Berlin, and Dr. Sigmond of Vienna, I found that many of the cases were of the most trifling description, some of them incurable, and a large proportion had been resident in these Hospitals for years. It would occupy too much of our valuable time to enter into detail as to the arrangement of the wards, the variety of treatment, or the peculiarities of procedure which characterized the practice of the above hospital surgeons, all of which may, at some future period, be presented to the public. Sufiice it in the meantime to notice the manner of holding consultations and performing operations in the Austrian capital. It so happened that the very first day after my arrival, I was requested by Dr. Sigmond to examine a case of extensive disease of the ancle joint, of long standing, complicated, with incipient tubercles of the right lung. I gave my opinion against operative procedure, but suggested a consultation of his colleagues. This was held immediately after our visit, when on minute investi- gation of the patient by the whole staff, an adjourn- ment as usual took place ; not, however. Gentlemen, to the governor's room or nurses' dormitory, as you see here, but chairs having been procured, and a circle of them formed in the ward where the patient lay, and not above five feet from the bed of the poor unfortunate sufferer, there did these sapient doctors,12 in the hearing of the patient^ discuss the propriety of amputation. Nay, further, had the limb been condemned, the surgeon would have been under the necessity of proceeding to his task in the ward, for want of an operating amphitheatre. That such scenes should be of daily occurrence in the great Hospital of Vienna bespeaks a want of feeling which I could not have credited unless I had been an eye- witness of the fact, and calls loudly for immediate redress. I say not one word as to where the fault lies; but be it on the part of the medical and surgical staff or on that of the government, it is a disgrace to humanity, and should be instantly remedied by the erection of a consultation-room and proper operating theatre near to the surgical wards. Now, contrast what I have above stated as to the general aspect of the surgical wards of these large establishments with that of those which you are about to attend. Our accident wards, which contain 40 beds, are generally well occupied, as formerly proved by the number of fractures and wounds annually under treatment. Our ordinary surgical wards are now limited to contain 60 beds, which are also usually filled with acute and chronic cases; but, so anxious are the Hospital Directors to prevent careless and slovenly practice on the one hand, or, on the other, to allow our Hospital to degenerate into an almshouse, that a senatus consultum was issued by them some years ago, that two months only should be allowed for the treatment of each patient, except in special cases. To a superficial observer, this regulation may appear harsh and unfeeling, but when wc examine the13 methods sometimes adopted by the inmates to delay their cure, and the system of malingering which prevails, it is right that such an ordonance should be suspended in terror em before their eyes. Besides the surgical cases which are treated in the wards, I have now to advert to a system of dispensary practice which has been carried on in this Hospital since its commencement, and which of late years has been so much improved and increased as to add mightily to its value. Every day, from 2 till 4 o'clock, P.M., you will find a crowd of patients in attendance for prescription at the waiting-room of the Hospital. Every case is regularly recorded in our Journals, with the treatment, &c.; and, from having officiated there during two years, I can with confidence affirm, that a more useful adjunct to the usual ward cases could not be presented to the surgical pupil. Many now hearing me know the practice which I adopted during my attendance on this department of the Hospital; and I feel convinced that not a few have profited by the questions whicn I uniformly put to you to ascertain your knowledge of the cases, by the examinations which I caused you to institute on the patients, and by the performance of many of the minor surgical operations which you will find so frequent when you advance to practice. This system of dispensary clinique, to which I have above adverted, is so much esteemed in many parts of the continent, that it has been found necessary to subdivide it into different departments, over each of which one, and sometimes two, of the medical officers of the Hospital daily preside, and where, as at Berlin, under the14 able superintendence of my friend, Dr. Barrie, a large amphitheatre has been erected for the conve- nience of the pupils. On entering upon my duties, about three years ago, I found great inconvenience in the dispensary for' want of accommodation. The crowding was so great, and the obtaining a view of the patient so difficult, that I was under the necessity of memorializing the Directors for the erection of a small theatre. This was immediately granted by those gentlemen, who have at all times your welfare at heart; and now you will find in your little dis- pensary sanctum sanctorum, as much comfort and even more instruction than in any other department of the Hospital. The cases are of all kinds ; they are examined carefully at the moment, the whole history is detailed, the diagnosis, prognosis, &c., explained, and the treatment left to a senior pupil, under the correction of the ordinary attendants ; by this means you are familiarized with disease, and compelled to think for yourselves as to the ratio medendi. Another advantage which this Hospital possesses in contrast to many others both at home and abroad is, that we have no rival establishment to attract our patients ; on the contrary, here you will find all concentrated that is really of value. Let us for a moment turn our attention in this respect to Dublin, whose population does not amount to more than 200,000. In this aristocratic capital there are no less than five general hospitals for the reception of medical and surgical cases, besides a number destined for the treatment of fever. Now, how the poor15 student can profit by this microscopic subdivision I never could understand. He enters, it may be, to the practice of the Meath hospital, and after pay- ing the enormous fees, he w^ill find, to his direful experience, that the cases are few and unimportant; —he attempts Dr. Steven's or Mercer's ; but now he is told that before attending these exhibitions of disease he must fee them also, and thus he at last discovers that, do what he will, he is destined to a very limited field for surgical practice. The same observation applies even to London. In this overgrown capital, with a population of 1,800,000, we find that there are twelve general hospitals, each with its medical school. It is most unfortunate that none of these hospitals have ever, to my knowledge, published a statistical account of the diseases treated, operations performed, or indeed of any of these interesting questions as to mortality, hos- pital residence, &c., by which alone a true comparison might be drawn between them and the Glasgow Infirmary. Had I been able to procure from London any such document as is annually published by the Directors of this Hospital of its whole economy, I feel convinced I could have produced most satisfactory proof to the medical profession that, compared to any of the London hospitals, Glasgow, in regard to its surgical cases at least, is worth any two of them. But while we have demonstrated the advantages which you enjoy, in having presented to your obser- vation so much of surgical disease, have these been made available as they ought in the advancement of science ? Clinical surgery, as a branch of medical16 education, was, till within the last twenty years, almost unknown in this country; for though it was most zealously and efficiently taught for half a century, previously, both in France and Italy, still so bigoted were our boards and hospital surgeons at home against the exposure, as they termed it, of the diseased poor to the remarks of their medical attendants, that not till after the peace of 1815, was there any attempt made to fill up this gap in the acquisition of a knowledge of practical surger3^ True it is, a chair of Clinical surgery did exist in a far-famed university not more than 44 miles distant; and true it was that a nondescript functionary did give lectures on this all-important branch of the healing art; but these scarcely deserved the name, delivered, as they were, on cases not under the Professor's charge, in whose treatment he could take little interest, and for whose result he could not be held responsible. About the year 1827, the Glasgow Medical Journal was com- menced ; and so alive did all the Hospital surgical staff feel to the important advantages to be derived from recording their cases in that well conducted and spirited periodical, that proposals were made to the Infirmary Directors for the establishment of a regular series of clinical lectures to be delivered by all the attending medical and surgical officers. These proposals were instantly complied with, and ever since there has been kept up in this Hospital the most complete system of Clinical instruction which is to be found in this or any other country. In no department of the profession has there existed greater diversity of opinion than in the manner in which these17 courses of Clinical instruction ought to be conducted. In many of the Continental schools, such as those of Italy and Germany, I remarked that the lectures, or rather observations, are conducted at the bedsides of the patients, forming thus a correctly designated Clinical discourse ; and this being carried on in the Latin language, which the patients are totally ignorant of, a far more free, accurate, and valuable course of instruction is communicated than by any other plan. Nothing, indeed, struck me so forcibly in visiting many of these charitable establishments last year, than the facility and accuracy with which both masters and pupils expressed themselves in this classical language, either while examined at the bedsides of the patients, or during our after conversation; and thus it is, in my opinion, that a more complete knowledge is obtained of all that concerns practical surgery, than by the superficial and perfunctory manner in which this important branch of science is conducted in this country. A question here occurs as to the method of car- rying on these courses. Should there be separate wards for Clinical cases, and a lecturer solely for this department, as we find in Edinburgh ? This plan looks feasible at first sight, and has the appearance of concentrating all that is valuable under the eye of the Clinical student, but a little inspection, I think, will demonstrate its impropriety. Not to allude for a moment to the jealousy which must exist between such a functionary and the usual hospital attendants, in thus being allowed to choose his cases, and leave the dregs as it were to his colleagues, I have very c18 • frequently found that the most simple and seemingly at first unimportant cases, have turned out to be those of the greatest interest; besides, it is not only the rare and uncommon cases, which the practitioner may perhaps in a whole lifetime never see, but those also of every day occurrence which, in my opinion, should be brought under the observation of the pupil. On this account I think the Directors of this Hospital have most judiciously enacted, that every office-bearer shall in his turn be a Clinical lecturer; and thus you will find that, during the winter course of 100 lectures given in this theatre on Clinical medicine and surgery gratuitously to all the pupils in atten- dance, a greater variety of cases is presented than by any other method. It is not, however, at the regular Clinical lecture that you will derive most advantage. No, Gentlemen, unless the cases are carefully studied by you in the wards, unless you punctually and assiduously follow me in my rounds, it will be utterly impossible that any advantage can be derived by my lectures here : and so impressed have I all along been with the importance of the true bedside system of lecturing, that for many years I have adopted in my wards that plan which I formerly eulogized; and have cautiously, but I trust with advantage, made such observations at my daily visits as, on the one hand, to impress the cases on your minds, without, on the other, injuring in the least the feelings of my patients. Another advantage which you enjoy in this Hos- pital, which is denied to most of your contemporaries elsewhere, is the regular use of journals, in which our19 clerks, with great accuracy, record the cases on their admission; and also, in which reports are almost daily- engrossed with the prescription, enabling you at your leisure to copy out whatever is interesting- and lay up in store what, in after life, may prove of great value. All the medical boards of the kingdom, as well as the Directors of this Hospital, have been most anxious to secure your attendance, both in the wards as well as at the regular Clinical lecture; and many have been the attempts to attain this desirable object;—at one time by calling the catalogue, at another by handing in your cards, and, at a third, by inscribing your names in the album ; but unfortunately all these laudable attempts have proved abortive : and why ? because, in my opinion, they are not criteria of your knowledge of what is transacting ;—true, they may be tests of your bodily presence ; but unless some- thing more is ascertained, all such contrivances are, in my opinion, absurd. The plan which I have uniformly adopted, is one which not only secures your bodily but your mental presence, and which is so satisfactory to all parties that I still intend to persevere in it. At the termination of each quarter I examine all those pupils, whose names are inscribed in my list, on the nature and treatment of the cases which have been admitted. This concours is con- ducted in such a manner as to be more a test of your attendance than an exhibition of your intellectual powers; and by such means I am enabled to note the diligent, and thus to grant certificates which in after life may be of much consequence to you all.20 « The last direct advantage to which I shall advert in entering on the study of disease in this place, is the price of the Hospital ticket. In the situation which I hold, it may appear in the eyes of some to be beneath my dignity to notice any such matter as the Hospital fee; but. Gentlemen, when I take up the students' number of the London Lancet, and see the enormous sums which are exacted from the poor medical students of England for a six or a twelve months' attendance at those metropolitan hospitals to which I have already alluded, I mus^ not allow false delicacy to deter me from stating such astounding facts as the following. For a ticket to attend the Hospital during two years, includ- ing the medical, surgical, and dispensary practice, as well as both courses of Clinical surgery and medicine, the fee of £7 7s. is all that is exacted; and if a third year is required, an additional £l Is. is paid, which entitles to all the above privileges. Our Southern friends, I know, begin to tremble lest such information as I have above endeavoured so imperfectly to afford you may find its way to head- quarters, and thus open the eyes of the medical profession to the advantages of the Glasgow School; but this just so much the more imposes the duty on me to proclaim still more loudly those stubborn facts for the information of the rising generation. Having now stated very shortly and imperfectly the direct advantages which you enjoy by attending this Hospital, let me, for a few moments, advert to those which are collateral; for, however complete the courses of Clinical instruction may be, unless these21 are accompanied by able and efficient instructors on all the various branches of the healing art, the Hospital as such cannot be expected to flourish. Both in this country and on the Continent, we find attached to most of the hospitals a well-appointed medical school, where all the branches of medicine and surgery are taught, the lecturers belonging to which are generally its permanent hospital attendants; and by thus combining theory with practice, much advantage to the attending pupils is obtained. In this city matters are otherwise arranged ; for in consequence of the existence of no less than three schools of medicine, no monopoly is allowed as regards the wards of our Hospital. The charter of the Institution being of the most liberal kind, the medical and surgical practice has always been thrown open to the widest competition ; by this means insur- ing the most able and experienced office-bearers. Indeed, so jealous have the Directors all along been of the least approach to monopoly, that a bye-law was made many years ago, that all the physicians and surgeons, however talented, must vacate their respective situations after an incumbency of four years, and can only be re-elected after the lapse of two years. However much opinions may dififer as to these regulations, it must on all hands be allowed that much good has resulted from the above practice in this hospital; for while, on the one hand, it has allowed a plentiful infusion of young blood, on the other it has retained a goodly proportion of the matured and experienced in the profession. It would22 De quite out of place for me to say one single word as to the advantages which you will derive from attending any of the three schools of medicine in this city contrasted with those elsewhere. They have all been long established, and I feel convinced the more they are known, the more highly will they be valued. As to my own department. Anatomy, I can with the utmost confidence affirm, that we stand on a vantage-ground in regard to dissection, possessed by no other locality in the empire; and were our capabilities better understood, Glasgow would soon occupy the first position as a school of practical science. In my Inaugural Lecture on Anatomy w^iich I published last year, I stated a great variety of other privileges which you enjoyed in studying your pro- fession in this city, and to it I must refer for any further information on this important subject; re- marking, in conclusion, that the more Glasgow is examined, and the more its capabilities for the prosecution of the study of medical science in all its extent are understood, so much the more I feel con- vinced will it rise in the estimation of the profession.23 <M O '^^ C0„ --H^ (M r-^ «5 00^1-'^ 'O^ CO f-T ci i-M oo" o~ CO i-T cf CO <-^' i-T co si iff oT CO COlO—<OJi£)«0?OC1'*<M'X>CO(M»OCOa30CO-<l<0 rl<C£5(Mrt"'^Tl»Or-iC0Q0 — Ti<CO 0001t»CO'* — (Mf-i i-i (Mph <£) •^l>r-i(MOiCOCOO'*C5COiOOOi-i(M(Mr-i«iO(M a0(MC0>-i<M^Q001OC^CDr»00cOCli-0'*^'O(N <OQO<-i-<t'-^a>050COC30(MQO'X>'-iCOC;5<7^'-^r^«0 ifT OiOrl<Tl<(MOjr»QO^OC35r-Oi(M'*0(M(MI>01CO CO iS^o (MC0C0'*C0i-''-'l>'*t^00i;O'4'«Ot^C0Q0Q0t^CO r» Sg2^ "CO r-ifMC^ifSiOpHCO-^IMCO 00-* 00 00C5t^(MCDC0O-^C^r'-^C0C500a0'*O(NOCO ^r-cOt'COOCO'*c-(Mr«>t^O'<*<(MC5CO'-ia5't 1-1 •-iCOiOC*'"* CN90f-*!M CCNf-it^CO-* to cT cir»iooQOooiO(NcotO" Q0O<MI>i-'Q0-^05Q0i-ii?J0i COCO(NI>CO CO-^i-H f-» <C) rH ifj r-H to 00<Mt^{3iC3COCOr-05COC^C0001iOtOI>OOCO ir5tO<MTi«i:^CX)if5C005tOir5050i<-ir-i05C*0«5'0 r-iO< (MOiQ'^ C^-^i-t CO<M tOi-HO asCOTj*if505r-4QOOFHQOC5Tfir5(MTf<-<i«005<Nt' ^Of-(if5C350CO<NtOO^aOCOCO<MCOTHa5r-4QO-rl< "CO (MC0C0C0(7^rH(Mi-H 5^(71 CO 00 00 -2; r»r»<Ot«»C005COQOi-<0>riTj<ioa5if5t00003CO "a)<M'«tO-*COCOOtOOOO)iO (Mr-.OCJSt'OO i-ir-( (^^coco<^^l-^l-lCO "i-i cocooio^o-^-^oi^coiocor^oOi-ioiOicOi-' ■r-r-i'^C0"*'?»tO'^Q0C>I<OC0>- 0500 00 05 00 i-H i-t-^C^f-ii-tCO r-lCOr-i QOF-(r<05050<N-*r'OOtOCO'*QOtOCOCOOr-.00 ^(M^irstOtOCi-HOOO^OC^CO CO to-^rHCO^or-ooi I-I r-1 rj* d ^ 00 o "0(M-*OOr-TtitO(N05COiOOOaOiO-*r-i(MQO l>ini-if-<0<M"005<—iiOtJ<,-«,-<;OC^<MCO^00 i-tCO»-ti-'r-<d 1-1 CO CO 3 a; C fci B 2 .3 o c c o S3 •Tvoioaag i2 -a o 0^ X S eci w 0) 0) OJ rt" rtP24 Oi 1 3 .8 s I 5- S o5 00 +J 00 c5 o * 00 +J 00 CC 00 2 oS5 00 +^ 00 CO -U CO ■^QOCOCO--<OiOCiC*inif5C<;OCD ■«* ;o CO S g o «r , S o S 0) o C •r: Q « „ « ^ c O — go rt O o25 CD « ,^ o "1^ s s so ^ CO o ~ ~ 5; 'osiTS diqsaa •eoiad jCub ?b ^{[cldns JO '53? 83? i"oa^ •UOISS9g a9}Ul^ aqi Suunp 'X|5189M 'aoiAv; JO 80U0 X[uo •asanoo auo uopucj 001 y "^OJJ pooS — 't3? •;([UO PUOISIBOOQ <M tM (X> <Xi O CO ■X) CO CO i^O o c o CO iO CO CO 3^ ^OiTJiOCOOCOCOiO cooocooco^o^o COCO-^COCO COOOCOCOCOCO <NCO(N coco-^rtco cocococococo (Mco(N ■"h ',•7' pa So Q0Q0COQ0COQ0COt> Q000COC3CCO00COr>- COCO-^COCO <M(MC^<7)WC0 (NC0<71 coco-^coco <^^(^^(^^!7^coco <mcoc-i 00 >X) CO QO CO ao CO o cooocooocoxcot^ lO^OCOO-* cocococococo (MCOtN oocoifj-* cocococococo OICOC^ oooooooo 5<i„^ao — s^ — —I CO<N(M.-^(rJCO(>)<M oooooooo O (M CO O O CO 'OiOiOOO'OCO'^ 00 r- 00 00 00 oooooooo OOOOO OOOOCO t^<MI> iOtNCOC^t^OcOCO COOfM^—i 't^aOiOt^iO I>(71l> COTj<TiHTl»CO-*COCO OOOOO 00 s^j r» o o o o a; CI oooooooo iO!MOCOcOO(Mt— COCOtMOfM-trH,-. o o o c o lO GO -1 ^ — (7^ oooooo ooo OiOC'OtNO OOlO •aNViaUI •QMV'JJLODS D