CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 267 In mild cases, when the first symptoms have been marked, and consist perhaps of only a redness about the eyes, and great inclination for the fire, give for two or three days, in the morning, a mild emetic, such as half a tea-spoonful to a dessert-spoonful of antimonial wine. About the fourth or fifth day, give a gentle purgative. From one to four tea-spoonfuls of the following mixture is much recommended, and if mixed with a little sugar or simple syrup, will be readily taken :— Castor oil ... 4 drachms. Olive oil 2 drachms. Oil of anise ^ drachm. Mix. Or a pill may be compounded of:— Extract of colocynth ... ... 10 grains. Colchicum, in powder ... ... 6 grains. Blue pill 5 grains. This last is best, and is for a small dog. Three such pills, or one three times the quantity, would be needed for a mastiff or Newfoundland. At the same time, make up the following pills, choosing from the quantities named, according to the size of the dog :— Extract of belladonna ... 6 to 24 grains. Nitre ... ... ... 20 to 80 grains. Extract of gentian ... ... i to 4 drachms. Powdered quassia ... ... quantum sufficit. Make the above into twenty-four pills, and administer three daily. Often this treatment seems to cure. If so, the belladonna has done its work, and the following tonic is substituted Di-sulphate of quinine ... i to 4 scruples. Sulphate of iron ... ... i to 4 scruples. Extract of gentian... ... 2 to 8 drachms. Powdered quassia... ... quantum sufficit. This is for twenty pills, three to be given daily, with liquor arsenicalis, prepared by adding ten to twenty drops of the pharmaceutical preparation to an ounce of water, with a little simple syrup, and giving a tea- spoonful thrice daily. If the case be more severe, and the bowels very costive, no laxatives must be used, but an enema made up of four drachms sulphuric ether, and a scruple of laudanum, added to a quart of cold gruel, (one-eighth for a small dog), will greatly relieve the animal in its distress. The tonics and diet are to be as before. Should the lungs be affected, the diet must be kept spare, giving food often, but very little, and discontinue the tonics for- Extract of belladonna Nitre James’s powder Conserve of roses ... In making, add one drop of tincture of aconite to every four pills, and give one pill every hour. When better, resume the tonics, even though the lungs be not well. J to I gram. I to 4 grains. ^ to I grain, quantum sufficit HINTS TO LETTER-WRITERS.—-V. In writing to a member of Parliament who has neither hereditary rank nor honorary degree, a letter must be addressed as to “ Robinson Jones, Esq., M.P.” If he is a baronet, the address must be, “Sir Robinson Jones, Bart., M.P.” If he is a knight, it will be, “ Sir Robinson Jones, Knt., M.P.” If he is a viscount, or lord, he is ad- dressed in accordance with the rules already laid down for his rank, with the simple addition of “ M.P.” The general principle for addressing persons bearing academ.ical and similar honours has been explained in the previous article ; but the following examples may be useful. To a bachelor of arts, who is a layman, “John Warren, Esep, B.A.” or “ A.B.” To a master of arts who is a layman, “John Smith, Esq., M.A.,” or “A.M.” A bachelor of laws, “ LL.B. a doctor of laws, “ LL.D. a doctor of medicine “M.D. a doctor of divinity, “ D.D. ” and others with like honorary and professional titles must, if laymen, be addressed in agreement with the foregoing specimens. Yet it is not uncommon for those who have a doctor’s diploma of any kind, if laymen, to be addressed merely as “ Dr. So-and-so.” It may be noted, however, that in addressing gentlemen with ordinary academical degrees, it is not a breach of civility to omit the mention of such degrees on the envelope of a letter. Ordinary degrees are also often omitted in addressing clergymen. Clergymen who have no other official or professional honour are addressed as “ Rev.” Every clergyman is a reverend, and, when addressed in writing, must be so styled ; thus ; “ The Rev. George Jones.” If a clergy- holds a doctor’s degree, he is addressed either as “ The Rev. Dr. So-and-so,” or as “ The Rev. Samuel Oliver, D.D.” Should he be D.D. and LL.D., both these abbre- viations may follow his name. So of other degrees, though it is not common for D.D., LL.D., and other doctorships to have mentioned with them lesser degrees, as M.A. and B.A. Professors in colleges, universities, &c., if laymen, are addressed as “ Prof.,” or “Professor,” without “Esq.;” but if they are clergymen, they are styled, “ The Rev. Prof.” There are cases in which the professorship is mentioned after the name and other titles, and then “ Pro- fessor of ” is simply added. Where the professor is the principal of a college, this word “principal” may be used instead of “ professor ; ” and, as the principal is usually a clergyman, the address will be “ The Rev. Prin- cipal ——.” The “master” of a college in a university can be addressed as “ The Rev. the Master,” and his name omitted if the college is added ; or thus : “ The Rev. The Master of College.” Where the heads of colleges, &c., have to be addressed collectively, their official titles only need be inserted in an address, and their proper names may be left out. * A privy councillor is addressed as “The Right Hon- ourable,” with such other titles as he would have if not a privy councillor. The same title of “ Right Honourable” is also given to the Lord Mayors of London, York, and Dublin, and to the Lord Provost of Edinburgh, while in office. Thus, “To the Right Hon. the Lord Mayor of London,” is a sufficient address. The Lord Lieutenant of Ireland is styled, “ His Excel- lency the Lord Lieutenantbut when he is a duke he is called “ His Grace the Lord Lieutenant.” The lady of the Lord Lieutenant derives no accession of title from her husband’s office in this case. A secretary of state is addressed according to circum- stances ; “ To Her Majesty’s Principal Secretary of State for the (Home, Foreign, or Colonial) Department.” He may also be addressed as “ The Right Hon. Such-a-one, Her Majesty’s Principal Secretary of State for the (Home, Foreign, or Colonial) Department.” Generals in the army are addressed thus : “ To General the Right Hon. Lord Such-a-one,” the word “ General ” being prefixed to his ordinary designation. To a Lieu- tenant-General it is sufficient to say, “ To Lieut.-General Such-a-one.” A Major-General is simply styled thus : “ To Major-Gen. Blank.” In like manner we write, “To “ Col. Jones,” “ Lieut.-Col. Jones,” and “ Capt.” or “ Cap- tain Jones ; ” but the latter may be “ George Jones, Esq., Captain ” of such-and-such a regiment. Generally speak- ing, subalterns are addressed as “ Esq.” or “ Mr. , 48th Regiment.” When military officers are knights or baronets, &c., they should be addressed as such, thus : “Major-General Sir Thomas Napier, Knt., &c.” the offi- cial rank being named first. An admiral may be addressed simply as “Admiral