THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. 84 or on something faulty in the milk of the mother. The motions of the child are generally green in colour, and frequently passed. The child cries much, or gives other signs of uneasiness in the bowels. Very often some degree of vomiting exists along with this diarrhoea. Such a case as this is eminently one for good domestic management. It is impossible to lay down rules that will suit every case ; but wise women will find out what food agrees with a child and what seems to poison it. This kind of diarrhoea is often seen in children that are fed with the bottle, or in other artificial ways. And it is wonderful how such children will often improve as soon as a wet-nurse is got for them. The green motions become yellow, the wrinkled skin looks plump and fresh again, and the expression of the face alters from an aged, haggard look to a happy, well-fed appearance. Where a wet-nurse cannot be procured, the best artificial food should be given, and of this, generally speaking, the best is that which is made of milk and water in equal proportions, or in the proportion of two-thirds milk to one-third water. It should be sweetened with a little sugar, and given at a temperature of 90" to 95" Fahr. It is of the greatest moment that the milk should be fresh and free from all acidity. In the way of domestic medicine, a tea- spoonful or two of lime-water may be given mixed with the food, or a teaspoonful of the following mixture may be taken two, three, or four times a day :— Chalk mixture 6 drachms. Water ... ... ... ... 6 ,, Bicarbonate of soda ... ... 6 grains. Where the diarrhoea depends on any temporary fault of the mother’s health, this must be rectified by appropriate means, especially by simple diet and quietness of mind. If the diarrhoea is not quickly removed by domestic care and treatment, medical advice should be taken on the subject. 2. The Diarrhoea of Teething Children. — Many children never cut a tooth without having some diarrhoea. If it continues long, or if it is associated with vomiting, or if the child is getting obviously thinner, then it should be regarded seriously, and the doctor should be sent for. The domestic treatment of it will consist in the most careful regulation of the mother’s living, favouring good milk on her part; where the child is brought up by the hand, in giving suitable food, especially milk as above directed. If this produces vomiting, then give barley- water, or barley-water and milk, until the stomach settles a little. If the child is very exhausted, and lies with its eyes half closed, then a little very weak brandy an-d water may be administered. For example, a teaspoonful of pale brandy may be put into a wineglassful of water and sweetened ; of this a teaspoonful may be given fre- quently. If the motions are green, and the skin hot and dry, two teaspoonfuls of the above chalk mixture may be given every three or four hours. If there is sickness or sweating, the following mixture will often answer better : — Dilute sulphuric acid 12 minims. Compound tincture of cardamoms i drachm. Simple syrup... ... 2 „ Water ounce. A teaspoonful or two teaspoonfuls to be taken (according to the age of the child) every three, four, or six hours. When diarrhoea occurs in older children than those of a year or two, it should not be checked immediately, especially if it have followed close upon some obvious error of diet. It may even be proper in this latter case to give a very small quantity of castor oil or Gregory powder. If the diarrhoea continues, then the above mixtures may be procured in twice the quantity, and a dessert-spoonful or .a table-spoonful given every three or four hours. Generally speaking, it will be safe to begin with the chalk mixture, and if this is not effective the other may be tried. If the case is urgent, however, or the child delicate, or the summer very hot, it will be proper to take medical advice at first. Inflammatory Diarrhaa.—Sometimes, particularly in young children fed with the bottle in unhealthy large towns, diarrhoea resists all remedies, and changes its character; the motions losing altogether the appearance of ordinary motions, becoming green and sour, consisting largely of slime, perhaps mixed with a little blood; sometimes they resemble spinach or chopped vegetables. Vomiting is apt to set in. The little patient gets very pallid and thin, and soft and flabby. The case is not now one of simple diarrhoea. It requires the best medical skill, and should at once be removed from the sphere of domestic medicine. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—VI. JOINTS (continuedfromf. 78). The next kind of jointing we will try to describe is morticing. For simplicity, we will use logs of the same size as before, and will suppose that it is required to join the end of No. 2 log into the middle of the narrow side of No. I (Fig. 42), a T-shaped piece, of course, being the result. Plane up true, as before, and square a line, A B, on No. 2, at three and a quarter inches from the end, and continue the line all around the log. Now take the mortice-gauge (Fig. II, page 24) and set the two points to the width of the mortice-chisel, which should, in this case, be about three-quarters of an inch, and then adjust the pair of points to mark on the narrow edges of the log two parallel lines, each at an equal distance from its respective side. The gauge is easily set by tapping with a hammer to about the right place, and then tested by pricking holes from one edge, and then reversing the action to the other edge, until the marks made from either side coincide, and when once set correctly, the screw should be tightened, to prevent the points shifting. Mark the narrow edges of the log with these points from the square marks A and B to the end, and then across the end to join them, and remove the wood on either side as far as these marks, as shown by the dotted lines, the cut in the direction of the grain to be taken with a rip-saw, and the transverse cut with the tenon-saw. It only remains to smooth off the roughness left by the saw, and this part of the joint, which is called the tenon, is flnished. In the middle of log No. i mark round the log, with the square, two lines, A B, A B, at a distance from each other equal to the width of No. 2, viz., three inches, and mark the narrow edges, a a, between these lines with the gauge in the same position as before, and as the logs are of equal thickness, the marks will fall in the middle in this case, as on No. 2. If we now look at our marks, we shall find we have two parallel lines, a a, three-quarters of an inch apart, and three inches long. Turn the log completely over, and make the same gauge marks on the bottom, and a corresponding oblong slit mark, bede, placed exactly opposite A, will be the result. N ext lay the log on the stool or bench, and fix it in the most convenient manner (it is usual with carpenters to sit on the work to keep it steady), and take the chisel, and holding it with the edge at right angles to the length of the hole to be cut somewhere between the two gauge lines, and the blade quite upright, hit it a smart blow with the mallet. Now, with the chisel, take a cut a little further either way, but always keeping the flat side of the blade towards the end you are approaching, and gradually advance about one- eighth of an inch at a cut, to the end of the required slit, or mortice, as it is termed. When the line A is reached, the tool is reversed from the place where the cut com- menced till it comes to the B. Once below the surface, the blows of the mallet must be smart and swift, and the