45 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. open air, and we shall therefore give a few practical directions for planting and raising them. Our illustrations show designs for hanging-baskets, which may be suspended in the window by a hook driven into the ceiling of the apartment, and, when filled with ferns, creepers, &c., will be found to produce a very elegant effect. Of these Fig. i represents a basket made of rough pieces of rustic wood joined together, while Fig. 2 is of a little more elaborate kind, being composed of twisted wire. THE TOILETTE.—II. THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SKIN {conlinuedfrom f. 2.-^. Warmth.—If we would have the skin doing its duty properly, we must be sure that we do not subject it to too great changes of temperature, at least that we protect it sufficiently against surprises in this respect. This we are enabled to do by means of properly selected clothing, which prevents the heat from being conducted, as it is termed, too rapidly away from the body. Flannel garments are the best for this purpose, since flannel is what is called a bad conductor of heat. Merino is the next best pro- tector. The young and the old require more clothing than the middle aged. Now in cold weather the young should, in this variable climate, be provided with flannel or woollen garments next the skin ; the feet should be kept especially warm. The custom of allowing young children to be dressed in a half-naked style is fraught with consider- able danger. It may be fashionable, Spai'tan-like, and so on, but it is not sensible. The chest should be well pro- tected, and the sensitive stomach of the child as well. Flannel may be irritable to the skin ; in that case merino should be substituted, or a thin layer of linen placed inside the flannel. When the skin (be it in the infant, the lad, or the man) is kept uniformly warm, the circulation through its texture is much facilitated, and diseases, both of skin and internal organs, are warded off. In summer time, however, flannel is to be dispensed with, and cotton under-garments used instead, as the keeping the body too hot is then followed by various summer rashes, the most uncomfortable of which is the prickly heat.” When we say that infants should be warmly clad, we do not mean that they should be boxed up indoors or in stuffy rooms all day ; they should be clothed warmly, in order that they may get the benefit of open air and the like, without running any risk of being injured by it, or the alternations of temperature that characterise our variable climate in England. So, in the summer time, when the average temperature of the day is high, the child should not be muffled up as though he or she were in a vapour bath; nothing so readily induces little red rashes, which result from the excessive perspiration. These rashes are known by the name of the red gum, “ red gown,” &c., and are most frequently an indication that the sufferer from them requires to be kept much cooler. Clothe well and wisely in winter, but lightly and thinly in the summer. Flannel encasing the chest and stomach, especially in children, in cold weather, must give way to thin garments of cotton in the hotter days of the summer. This is a matter of common sense. Exercise is absolutely necessary to a healthy state of skin. The only remark we would here make is this, that exercise should be regularly taken each day, and that it should not be taken for at least two or three hours after a meal, since it then stops digestion ; and that exercise before meals is certainly the best kind to take, as it puts a man in the fittest condition for food taking. Any kind of exercise, when excessive, is of course accompanied in warm weather by perspiration. When the latter is too great, it should never be checked by plunging into cold water, sitting in draughts, or by throw- ing off the clothes and going to sleep. If the surface be too rapidly cooled, it is not at all unusual for eruptions of various kinds to follow. Cleanliness.—The virtues of the use of soap and water have been more appreciated of late. It is impossible to define the amount of good which results from habits of cleanliness, and this can very readily be understood by the reader, if he has comprehended the description of the structure of the skin already given. The skin is a great breathing organ : oxygen enters the blood through it and helps to purify the blood ; then the glands of the skin carry off, in the sweat and fatty secretion, matters that if retained would act as poison in the blood. The tendency of an unwashed skin is to become sluggish, the pores get blocked up, the oxygen cannot reach the blood, the perspiration does not readily escape, so as to keep the temperature of the body equable ; the injurious action of outside heat is therefore not counteracted by the free evaporation of the perspiration, the circulation gets de- ranged, and inflammation may be set up. Any one may guess for himself what an unwashed skin can do in choking up the ducts of the skin, if he examine the mass of cuticle and dirt which can be rubbed off the skin of a man who, not having had recourse to a bath or the appli- cation of soap to his skin for some time, takes a Turkish bath, or a hot bath, and remains under the influence of heat and moisture sufficiently long to soften the skin and the use'less scales of cuticle which should long before have been cast off from the body. Nature can be helped by art in the preservation of health and vigorous action of organs. The application of water to the skin should be part and parcel of the daily toilette. From oldest time “ purification by water ” has been inculcated as part of man’s daily duty, and not without sound reason. By its aid the accumulation of a layer of worn-out and useless cuticle is prevented, which otherwise forms a complete barrier to the entrance of the life-giving oxygen, and pre- vents, to a greater or less degree, the exit of poisonous products. So far, then, as to the necessity; now as to the mode in which the skin should be cleansed. The use of soap is the most sure way of purifying the surface of the body. Soap contains what chemists call an alkali—a chemical substance (potash or soda) which, brought in contact with animal membranes or sub- stances, softens them. Moreover, it emulsifies fat. The effect of soap on the skin is therefore clear ; it softens up the cuticle, and it enters into combination with the fatty layer, so enables the water to gain free access to the skin, and by friction to remove the loose particles of cuticle and dirt. But there are good and bad soaps. Some have too much alkali in them, and then they dissolve or soften up the cuticle too much, and so expose or irritate the delicate deeper layers of the skin. We should use a soap that has a small amount of alkali in it. Some of the best of all the soaps made, considered from a medical point of view, are, in the writer’s opinion, the transparent soaps, the well-known old brown Windsor, and the glycerine soaps. Some of the nicest to use are, however, somewhat ex- pensive. Those mentioned are among the best for babies, and may be used freely with them. Well, having obtained a nice mild soap, it should be used to the face once a day, the heads of children twice a week, and the whole body once a week at least. This is in addition to taking the daily cold water bath to be by-and-by noticed. If persons can afford the time and have the inclination, there can be no question that the best possil:)le results follow the use of soap to the arm-pits, the groin and parts about, and the feet, each day, and to those who luxuriate in the thing, it cannot hurt to employ good soap to the body generally each day. We have, however, stated that at least once a week the whole body should be soaped. Ordinary yellow soap does not meet with any favour at our hands, and we condemn it in the case of young children.