CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE ! and a half inches long, as shown at C in Fig. 27, and hem it round with the narrowest hem that can be turned down, neatly button-hole stitching the angle a. Fig. 34, and then making a loop across, shown at B B B. In case any of our readers are not acquainted with the correct mode of making a loop, we will describe it in detail, with the help of the diagram. Fig. 28. Pass the cotton across ri7 to break in the drawing. However the body is made, the skirt is always constructed in the same way. To make the simple body, Fig. 34, cut a strip of long-cloth five inches wide and twenty-six long. Fold it in four, and hollow out a piece for the arms, as shown in Fig. 31 by the dotted line between F and f. How these arm-holes look when the piece of long-cloth is opened-up may be seen by referring ,fe= Fig. 46. from side to side two or three times, taking an imper- ceptible stitch through the material, and keeping the three bars of cotton close together and as much like one as possible. Then work over them closely in button-hole stitch, as shown in Fig. 29. The object of this loop is to prevent the placket-hole from tearing down, and it must be made to ^ the frocks as well as the petticoats. Next hem round the skirt, as shown at D in Fig. 27, and then gather it finely at the top (e and e) all round. Gathering is simply running, and drawing up the thread. It will be necessary to use rather coarse cotton for this purpose, because a fine thread is always exceedingly liable to the diagram of the completed body (Fig. 37) at G and G. Cut two little strips of long-cloth (cutting down the stuff, not across), each four inches long and one inch and the sixteenth of an inch wide. These are to form shoulder- straps, run and felled on at H and H in Fig. 37, having just nipped off the corners with the scissors, as shown at J J in Fig. 32, treating both arm-holes alike. Then hem all round the arm-hole, and inside the shoulder-strap, making the hem no wider than the sixteenth of an inch, which is the smallest division you will find marked on an English yard-measure, [The French, who are much neater workers, precieer copyists, and better fitters, divide their inches into