CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 71 common forms. Whenever a child is feverish and really ill, and any eruption shows itself, it should be kept very quiet and warm in bed. It is not difficult even for a non- medical person to see when a child is distinctly feverish, by the flushed face, the languid look, the headache, red tongue, quick pulse, and hot dry skin. If a rash shows itself about the face first, and there be much sneezing, running of the eyes, and a little cough, we suspect measles. If the child “ comes out ” with a scarlet rash of uniform character, if the skin be pungently hot, the fever very marked, and there be sore throat, with a strawberry tongue, we suspect scarlatina. If the rash show all over the back first, and then above the face and head and other parts, as little watery heads, it is probably chicken-pox. When modified small-pox occurs, there is a good deal of fever, and pains in the back, and the eruption appears first of all in the face, which is distinctly pitted in a day or two. All these cases require medical care. Red Blushes of various sizes occur about the bodies of children in summer-time, and are known as rose-rash ; they demand the employment of a slight aperient and the use of a little weak spirit lotion, or, better still, smearing over with benzoated zinc ointment. Sometimes, on the legs of young people, raised red lumps of an oval shape appear; they are painful, and they look like circles of erysipelas, or as if an abscess were going to form, but this is never the case. After they have existed a few days the circumference assumes a bluish tinge, and then as the places disappear, hues similar to those seen in a bruise which is going away are noticed. These cases require rest, quinine, mild aperients, and the outward application of a little whitening and water. They soon get well with rest. Whenever a child about n. month old is attacked with eruption about the soles of the feet and the parts adjoin- ing the bowels behind, and there be loss of flesh, with sore mouth and the “ snuffles” (cold in the nose), it should be taken to a doctor. Very frequently mothers are distressed by the occur- rence of chafings and sore red patches in their infants about the buttocks, the bend of the thigh, the root of the neck, and the armpits, just, in fact, where two portions of skin come into contact; the irritation is accompanied by great soreness and more or less thin discharge, which stains the clothes put to the child and gives them^ an offensive odour. These chafings are frequently an ac- companiment of thrush ; in that case we should treat the thrush at once; the best remedy for ordinary cases is a mixture made of chlorate of potash and honey. For a child a couple of months old we should give as follows : — Chlorate of potash, ten grains; honey, half a teaspoonful; hot water, an ounce. When cold, give a teaspoonful three times a day, and wash the mouth out after each time of feeding with a little honey and borax. When there is no thrush, and the child is weak and thin, or very fat and flabby, cod-liver oil and steel wine—five to ten drops of the former and half a teaspoonful of the latter— should be given twice a day ; but the local treatment is the most important. When the chafings are slight the parts may be dusted over with fuller’s earth, or, what is very much the best, equal parts of starch powder and the finely-prepared calamine powder made at Apothecaries’ Hall which we have referred to so many times before. The object is to keep the parts very dry indeed; night and morning they should be well washed with oatmeal gruel, but gently handled, the powder being used afterwards. The child should be kept scrupulously clean and dry, its napkins changed on every necessary occasion, and the nurse should be most careful that the napkins are not washed in soda. Whenever the child is changed, the powder should be dusted on to the sore places. In severe cases it may be advisable, when there is much discharge, to apply an ointment. and there is none better than the lead ointment of the old London Pharmacopoeia, spread thinly on burnt rag, and changed twice or thrice a day. Where, how- ever, the case is severe, there is something radically wrong, and medical advice should be sought, as also in those cases in which the simple remedies named fail after perseverance. DOMESTIC SURGERY.—IV. FRACTURES, DISLOCATIONS, BURNS, AND SCALDS. Fractures.—The treatment of broken bones is much too important to be entrusted to any but professional hands, but there are some points connected with the early care of such cases which may be advantageously insisted on. The great majority of fractures are what is technically called “ simple,” i.e., there is no wound of the skin com- municating with the broken bone; the more serious cases, where there is a wound, and possibly laceration of the soft tissues of the limb, are tenned “ compound ;” and when the bone is broken into several pieces, the fracture is said to be “ comminuted.” In all cases of fracture it is most important to avoid all rough manipulation of the limb, lest the “simple” fracture should become “compound,” by the end of the broken bone being thrust through the skin ; and as the muscles of the limb itself, if excited to action, have a direct tendency to produce this undesirable result, the patient should not only abstain from all voluntary effort, but means should be taken to restrain all involun- tary contraction of the muscles of the limb, as will be afterwards explained. The immediate effect of a severe injury likely to pro- duce a fracture is ordinarily a certain amount of faintness, and this need give no alarm if the patient is not losing blood at the same time. The only treatment required will be fresh air, with perhaps a little cold water sprinkled on the face, the head being kept low until the faintness has passed off, when a little brandy may be given if the patient continues exhausted. Since severe accidents usually happen in the open air, the next^ requisite will be to place the patient under shelter ; and the method of conveying an injured person safely for some distance is a matter of no small moment. In the case of a broken arm the sufferer will naturally support the injured limb with the opposite hand in the position least'painful to himself. When this has been ascertained,*and if there is any distance to travel before a surgeon can be seen, the arm should be supported both by handkerchiefs arranged so as to sling it, and also by a handkerchief or bandage bound—not too tightly—round the arm itself, so as to support the parts. A piece of card-board (such as is used for tying up gloves), or a piece of a common hat-box, four inches wide, may be advan- tageously placed on each side of the broken bone and secured with the bandage which envelops it. The patient may then be safely driven some miles in a carriage; and a four-wheel conveyance with good springs is to be preferred. If one of the bones of the leg is broken the patient is immediately rendered helpless, and the greatest care will be requisite, lest in moving him great pain should be inflicted. By far the most satisfactory way to carry a wounded man is on some form of litter borne by four bearers. A hurdle, or a small door taken off its hinges, is a very good substitute for a regular “ stretcher,” and either, with a mattress and pillow,will form a very comfortable temporary means of transport. When neither of these is at hand, a blanket may lie used to carry a patient in for a short distance, or if four poles can be procured and fastened together to form a frame-work, the blanket can be tied to the comers, as shown in the illustration, Fig. 15, and will