234 COOKERY. copper or iron, well tinned inside, are extremely useful and convenient for roastinj on the Continent they are considered indispensable in a kitchen. They will be of different sizes in respect to breadth ; the saucepan is large enough if the joint or fowl can be easily turned in it. A depth of six or eight inches will suffice for the largest; less for the smallest size. Fig. 3, with a flat bottom, must be used when it has to stand on a trivet belonging to a range; but Fig. 4, with the rounded bottom, will fit into the circular hole over the fire of a cooking-stove, which hole should be provided with flat rings of different breadths, movable at pleasure, suited to receive diflerent-sized saucepans, and also to regulate the direct fire-heat applied to the bottom of large boilers or stewpans. The rounded bottom has the advantage of allowing every part of its surface being brought into contact with the Joint to be so roasted ; none of the fat or gravy remains unemployed in the corner at the bottom. In preserve-making, the whole of the jam is more easily scraped out, and the inside of the saucepan itself is more readily cleaned. This mode of roasting is very generally employed by Continental cooks for small things, such as a leg or shoulder of lamb, a moderate sized fillet of veal, ducks, wild fowl, &c. Small birds, especially—larks, thrushes, and the like—are generally done that way. And a mere handful of fire suffices. At the bottom of the saucepan enough butter or sweet dripping is put to keep the joint from burning. As soon as the fat is hot, the joint is put in and kept constantly turned, until it is browned all over evenly, and thoroughly done. This, of course, requires constant watching. A roast in a saucepan cannot be left to itself. If the fat dries up, more must be added. When carefully done, a roast in a saucepan is not to be dis- tinguished, either in appearance or flavour, from a roast done before the fire. Many even prefer the former. The convenience of the mode, the economy of fuel, and the escape of the cook from exposure to a great blazing fire, are obvious. Those who once try it will continue the plan, if only for the sake of its providing them with a suc- cession of nice little fresh roasts, instead of having to get through heaps of cold meat. Saucepans for roasting in need no lid ; still, the lid will be useful when stews are to be done in them. MISCELL.\NEOUS RECIPES, Lemon Mince Pies.—Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender enough to beat to a mash ; add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four ounces of sugar; put the juice of the lemon and candied fruit as for other pies. Mince Pies.—Boil six eggs hard, shred them small, shred double the quantity of suet ; then put currants, washed and picked, one pound, or more, if the eggs were large ; the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice; six spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, and a very little suet; orange, lemon, and citron candied. Orange Cheesecakes.—\Patvs. you have blanched half a pound of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange- flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar, beaten and siftetl, a pound of butter that has been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be nearly cold before using It; then beat the yolks of ten, and whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, in a mortar, till as tender as marm.dadc, without any lumps ; and beat the whole together, and put into patty-pans. Orange Biscuits, or Little Boil whole Seville oranges in two or three waters till most of the bitterness is gone ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice ; then beat th'- outside v'cry fine in a mortar, and put it to an equal weight of double-refined sugar, beaten and sifted. When extremely well minced to a paste, soread it thin on china dishes, and set them in the sun or before the fire ; when half dry, cut it into what form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box, with layers of paper. They are for desserts, and are also used as a stomachic, to carry in the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemen when shooting, and for gouty stomachs. French Rolls.—Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; mix one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk as will make a dough of a middling stiffness. Beat it well, but do not knead ; let it rise and bake on tins. Sponge Cake.—One pound of butter, one pound of loaf sugar, nine eggs, one ounce caraway seeds, one pound and a half of flour. Wash the butter, and beat it up with the hands ten minutes before the fire ; break the sugar to powder, then add it to the butter. Drop one egg in at a time without first beating them, but beat the ingredients all together all the time you are mixing. Add the seeds, then the flour ; no beating after flour is put in. Macaroni Pudding.—Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe macaroni in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender ; put it into a dish with milk, two or three eggs, but only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach water, and half a glass of raisin wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange marma- lade or raspberry-jam in a macaroni pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond water ratafia, which you should otherwise flavour it with. Queen Cakes.—Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed clean currants. Wash a pound of butter in rose-water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees ; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins, tea-cups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine sugar over, just as you put it into the oven. American White Cake.—lhQ following is said to be a good recipe, and it is a simple one:—Two cups sugar, two and a half cups flour, half a cup butter, three-quar- ter cup milk, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful soda. Yeast.—This may be made without having any re- course to any product of alcoholic liquors. To prepare flour yeast, boil one pound of good flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water for an hour. When milk warm, bottle the mi.x- ture and cork it close. It will be fit for use in twenty- four hours. A pint of this will make eighteen pounds of bread. Barley Water.—Put two ounces of pearl barley into two quarts of water. Set the mixture on the fire, and when it boils, strain it well. Then add a little more water, and a bit of lemon-peel, and let it boil slowly until it is reduced nearly one half. It may then be removed, and again strained, and flavoured with sugar and lemon- juice. Everton Toffy.—The pan must be warmed and rubbed with a little butter, after which put in one pound of brown sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water. Let the sugar boil over a slow fire until it becomes a smooth thick syrup, when half a pound of butter is to be stirred into it. After boiling another half hour, drop a little on a plate, and if it sets hard, and comes off clean, it is done enough. Pour it out into a wide dish or tin well buttered, so as to form a cake about half an inch thick. It may be flavoured with twenty or thirty drops oFessence of lemon, stirred in as soon as it is taken off the fire. Oatmeal Porridge. —Place some water on the fire, and as soon as it boils, throw in a little salt. Then take some coarse oatmeal, and sprinkle it in the water by degrees, stirring it all the time with a large spoon, until it thickens like hasty pudding. It should then be re- moved from the fire, and poured upon plates at once.