i84 FURNITURE. part, and at the back of the uprights, not be wound round them. If furniture is preferred, it should never be of woollen. The same objections might be made to covering the floor with a carpet; but the draught underneath the door and the ventilation caused by the open chimney, prevent the carpet from retaining foul air. For sani- tary purposes, nothing is more unhealthy than stopping up the chimney. The ventilating aper- ture of a bed- room should be above the level of the head of a person who is lying on the bed, consequently, the bedstead should not be high. Acarpet under a bedstead is ob- jectionable ; it receives all the dust and flue, which, not being easily remov- able, creates a fine nursery for fleas. Yet it is often economical carpet, excepting in places where a person would stand, so that the floor could be washed once a week with sand and water, never with soap. When this is adopted, the boards should be laid even and be closely joined, and the bed-side carpets selected be the close-cut pile, which are sold erroneously for hearth-rugs. Three of these carpets round a bed- stead, and a fourth before a looking - glass, make a room look exceedingly well at a small cost—say, thirty shillings, not more. A piece of Indian mat- ting, well bound at the two ends, is better than carpet'or thin oil- cloth for laying down before the wash-stand. Some persons prefer “ mitred ” carpets of Kid- derminstermake joined at the corners, and placed round the bedstead in one piece. This plan entails the losing half a square of to carpet the whole of a room, so that when the carpet is somewhat worn it may be turned, that which was at the opposite end of the room to underneath the bedstead • but to keep the flue from penetrating, there should be a piece of floor-cloth the size of the bedstead, placed under it; and this looks well, can be wiped with a damp cloth every day, and lasts for years. It is most certainly healthier to have a bedroom entirely uncovered with material at each corner, or nearly a yard of carpet; and besides, a servant cannot so well shake carpets of such a form. The great objection to an uncarpeted floor is, that the latter is constructed too often of green wood, and thus shrinking and warping, after a time the interstices require filling up with laths of wood. Swing-glasses of a cheap kind are a source of vexation to a housekeeper, from the tendency the screws have to