36 COOKERY. immoderate; his consent must be obtained to a marriage, if the child be a minor ; and his dissent, on publication of banns, will be sufficient to stop the marriage. A licence for a minor to be married will not as a rule be granted, and should not be granted, except on oath that the father’s consent has been obtained. Where a minor has property, independently of his parents, his father is the guardian and administrator of it during the minority ; but he will be liable to be called upon for an account of his guardianship on the infant attaining his majority. A father has power by his will to appoint guardians for his children under age, and such guardians are invested, by the law, with the same rights and powers and responsi- bilities as the father. Mother and Child.—A m©.thcr has not any power over her children during her husband’s lifetime, except in one case which is created by statute. If the children are under sixteen years of age, the Lord Chancellor may order, on the mother’s petition, that they be given over to her— the mother being considered a better and more natural guardian for children of tender years. On the death of her husband, she steps into his, place as guardian, having a right to the custody of her children till they are of age. She cannot, however, appoint a guardian by her will, as she is not mentioned in the statute which gave the father that privilege. Duties of Children to /’ar^’wA.—These are not defined by the municipal law, being supposed to be contained in the law of nature ; but the poor law which compels parents, who are able to do so, to pay for the maintenance of their children, of whatever age, who may become chargeable to the parish, also makes it incumbent on children having ability to pay to provide for their poor and impotent parents, at such a rate as the justices in quarter sessions may order. Rights, Liabilities of Infants.—As to the liability of minors on contracts entered into with them, such con- tracts were, until recently, capable of confirmation on their attaining full age ; but contracts with minors are now absolutely void, and this even in cases where a new consideration has been given after full age has been attained. Infancy being a personal privilege, no one can take advantage of it but the infant himself; and therefore, though his contract be voidable, as far as he himself is concerned, yet it binds the person of full age. It is almost superfluous to remark that an infant cannot become bankrupt. He may be made joint executor with another of any age; but if appointed sole executor, ad- ministration must be granted to his guardians during minority. A gift by an infant is voidable. COOKERY.—III. Simple recipes (continuedfromp. 2i). Baked Tapioca Pudding.—To each pint of milk put four table-spoonfuls of tapioca, and boil gently until it is swollen. Sweeten and flavour according to taste. A little bit of cinnamon, or of orange or lemon-peel, boiled with the milk is agreeable. Let it stand to cool until it is tepid. Into the pie-dish in which your pudding is to be baked, break two or three eggs ; more, if you can afford them. Break them up with a fork, and stir into them your lukewarm milk and tapioca. Grate a little nut- meg on the top, and put into a very gentle oven. Watch that it does not boil. Sago and semolina baked puddings are made in the same way. You may, if you like, line the bottom of the dish with a crust, as in making baked apple-pudding ; it will make it more satisfying. When eggs are scarce, their loss may be in some measure supplied by the addition of a little flour, arrowroot, or baking-powder; but always use eggs when you can get them. Baked Rice Pudding.— Boil rice (after washing it) in a little more milk than it will absorb, with a little bit of cinnamon or lemon-peel, and a small quantity of finely- chopped suet ; sweeten to taste. When, nearly cool, mix with it as many eggs beaten-up as are allowed you, pour it into a greased pie-dish, grate nutmeg on the top, and bake in a very gentle oven, especially if the allowance of eggs be liberal. The suet directed in this recipe (or a bit of butter instead) will be found a very great improve- ment. Some people are obliged to leave out the eggs altogether ; some do so from choice, but of course when this is the case the pudding becomes a very plain one, and though good, wholesome fare, and not at all to be despised, if well made, it hardly deserves the name of a pudding. Savoury Rice Milk.—Steep your rice an hour or two in soft water. Set it on the fire in half milk and half good broth, cold. Mutton broth is excellent, with the fat left floating on the top ; if turnips have been boiled with the meat, so much the better. Season with a small quantity of finely-chopped onion, and a dust of pepper and salt. Keep stirring all the while, to prevent the rice from burning and the milk from boiling over. When the rice is quite tender, the members of the household can be served. Sweet Rice Milk is more of a treat for delicate little girls, perhaps a little spoilt. By additions you may easil/ bring it up to custard or pudding point. Boil rice, pre- viously steeped in new milk, with the same precautions as before; season with a little salt and sufficient sugar. You may flavour with lemon-peel, cinnamon, or grated nutmeg. You may stir in, after taking it off the fire, as many beaten-up eggs as you please; and you may, if you choose, add to it a. bit of butter, a glass of home- made wine, or, if needful, on a sharp winter’s evening, a table-spoonful of brandy. Broken-Bread Pudding, Baked.—You will often have sundry scraps and remnants of bread. Crusts are even better for this purpose than crumb. No matter how dry they are, so long as they are not musty or mouldy. Break up your fragments into small bits, and put them in a bowl. Put into a saucepan as much milk as you judge will soak the bread; throw into it two or three table- spoonfuls of suet chopped very fine, sugar to taste, and a pinch of salt. When it boils up, pour it over the bread. When nearly cold, add two or three beaten-up eggs, and just a few currants and raisins. Break up and mix the whole equally together with a spoon. Put it into a buttered pie-dish ; smooth the top, put a few little bits of butter and raisins on the surface, and set into the oven to bake. This pudding is as good cold as hot. The addition of a table-spoonful of rum to the beaten-up eggs is by some thought to be an improvement. By putting in more eggs and a little flour, to make it hold together, broken-bread pudding may be boiled in a basin, and turned out on a dish. It may be served with some one of the sweet sauces for which we have already given recipes, poured over and round it, and then becomes a very delicate and presentable form of using up remnants. Bread-and-Butter Pudding, without Butter. — This makes a capital pudding, and we strongly recommend our readers to try it. When well made, it is quite equal to the best varieties of marrow pudding. To make it first- rate, however, a liberal allowance of sugar and eggs is indispensable. Bake a nice fat piece of beef—the thin end of the ribs for instance—on a three-legged wire stand, over a dish of potatoes. By putting it into a brisk oven, and turning the potatoes "soon afterwai'ds, they will be crusted outside, floury within, and will soak up very little of the dripping. After the beef and potatoes have been served (which may thus be the staple dish of the