247 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. that of horse manure. It is most frequently used as an ingredient in composts for potted plants. Cow manure should be gathered fresh, kept in a dry place, often turned over, and broken into small pieces before using. The other unmanufactured manures generally available, are those from the piggery and hen-roost, which are very valuable, and often the only manures obtainable by the cottager. Liquid manure, either specially manufactured from fertilising substances in a dry state, or merely as the drainings from the manure heap, is most generally used for stimulating the growth of fruit and flowers. Of the special application of other manures and fertilisers, such as lime, salt, guano, sand, peat, and the like, we shall speak when we have to discuss the treatment of the various plants, for which they are specially valuable. It is only of late years that attention has been turned to the employment of sewage as a manure—in this country, at least, for in many others its value has long been recog- nised. Its disagreeable odour long prevented its being generally employed ; but great ingenuity was brought to bear upon the subject of deodorising it. Mr. Moule, by his simple invention of the earth closet, has succeeded in reducing many of the drawbacks of sewage manure almost to a minimum, utilising valuable substances hitherto wasted, and removing from our houses noxious smells which poisoned fresh air, and produced diseases innu- merable. Mr. Moule thus states his case :— “ The earth of the garden, if dried—or dried and pow- dered clay—will suck up the liquid part of the privy-soil; and, if applied at once and carefully mixed, will destroy all bad smell and all nasty appearance in the solid part, and will keep all the value of the manure. Three half- pints of earth, or even one pint, will be enough for each time. And earth thus mixed even once is very good manure. But if, after mixing, you throw it into a shed and dry it, you may use it again and again; and the oftener you use it, the stronger the manure will be. I have used some seven, and even eight times; and yet, even after being so often mixed, there is no bad smell with the substance ; and no one, if not told, would know what it is. “ The proper way to apply it to your garden is either to powder or sift it, and scatter it in small quantities over your seed beds of cabbage, turnips, onions, or lettuces. Or, if you are putting in peas or beans, then mix with water about half a pound, according to its strength and the length of your drill, and put it in with five or six gallons of water. If you are putting in plants, use water in the same way. Make a good hole with your setter, and fill it with the thin mud. One pound weight of that which has been mixed five times is quite enough, if used in this way, for six dozen broccoli or cabbage plants. “ But now, how is this plan to be worked out ? At once fill up your privy vault. Let the seat be made in the com- mon way, only without any vault beneath. Under the seat place a large bucket or box, or, if you have nothing else, an old washing-pan. A bucket is the best, because it is more easily handled, only let it have a good sized bail or handle. By the side of the seat have a box that will hold (say) a bushel of dried earth, and a scoop or old basin that will take up a pint or a pint and a half, and let that quantity of earth be thrown into the bucket or pan every time it is used. The bucket may be put in or taken out from above by having the whole cover moved with hinges, or else through a door in front or at the back. “ If you can make a place into which you could go from your upstairs room, there would be no need of a bucket or pan; earth and all might fall into the place below (which would of course be enclosed), and there it might at once be mixed and dried.” In our articles on the Construction of the House we shall have occasion to allude again to the employment of this valuable invention. THE HOUSE.—II. DRAINAGE. In building or purchasing a house in London and other large towns, we usually find some system of general drainage, if the roads have been formed, and therefore we may confine our attention solely to the proper drain- age of the house. In country places where there is no system of drainage, each house has to be drained separately, and the subject being more complicated, professional advice should be taken as to the best mode of disposing of the drainage. There are two systems of drainage generally adopted in the country—viz., by draining into some adjacent water, or by cesspools and liquid manure tanks. The first mode of getting rid of the drainage is generally considered pre- ferable to that of cesspools, provided that the water we drain into is some river or running stream of sufficient depth and velocity to carry off the drainage ; for if the water be shallow, or merely a pond that is likely to become stagnant, we are in danger of poisoning not only the water but the air of the neighbourhood, and so of becoming a serious nuisance to our neighbours. Cesspools should be carefully constructed of good substantial brickwork, built perfectly impervious, so as to prevent the possibility of escape of liquid sewage ; for this reason they should be sufficiently far removed from the nearest point of any dwelling-house—at least, a hun- dred feet—to allow of the cesspool being periodically opened for the purpose of cleansing or emptying. Care should also be taken that the cesspool is not constructed near any well, where water might become contaminated by any percolation of drainage matter from the cesspool. The drain-pipes from the house in connection with the cesspool should not be laid along the walks in the garden, or in any position where it may be inconvenient to open up the ground for the purpose of examining them. If possible, every cesspool should have an overflow pipe to take off the surplus liquid matter, which is comparatively innocuous, and can be drained off into some neighbouring ditch or water or liquid manure tank. By this means the contents of the cesspool can always be maintained at the same level, and all danger of an overflow is avoided; moreover, the necessity of frequent emptying is obviated, a practice always to be avoided as much as possible. The uses of cesspools in conjunction with open privies in London and other large towns, is, we are thankful to say, now almost unknown ; and, indeed, where there is a general system of drainage, such a practice is illegal, and cannot exist. But where such things do still exist, every precaution should be taken not only that the privy is properly trapped, but that it should be supplied with water, and the cesspool substantially constructed of brick- work with an overflow. For cottages in rural districts the cesspool might take the form of a liquid manure tank, one of which might be made large enough to serve two or three cottages. The liquid contents can be drawn up by means of a well and pump, but whether a cesspool or manure tank be employed to take the soilage, in both cases the water-closet should be trapped with an ordinary syphon trap, and if constructed over the cesspool or tank, an extra length of pipe should be affixed to dip into the sewage. By this means the air of the cottage in the immediate vicinity is kept comparatively pure. Construction of House Drains.—House drains are generally constructed of two materials—viz., of brick, or earthenware and stoneware. The chief point to be con- sidered in the construction of drains is, that they should be perfectly air tight and thoroughly efficient—that is to say, they should offer no impediment of any kind to the easy passage of any sewage matter that may have to pass through them. Drains constructed wholly of brick on this account are unsuitable for Ordinary drainage, pa!*