257 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. THE HOUSE.—III. WATER SUPPLY {continued from p. 163). It is somewhat strange that, notwithstanding the number of valuable discoveries in metallurgical chemistry which are day by day brought to the notice of the scientific world, lead, as a material for the manufacture of water-pipes, cisterns, conduits, &c., remains unsuperseded. Its unfitness for such a purpose is beyond dispute, and there can be no doubt that a great num- ber of obscure ailments and protracted diseases (which, although combated with all the appliances and remedies at the command of medical science, obstinately retain their hold on the constitution of the sufferer) might be, by the aid of care- ful analysis, traced to minute proportions of the salts of lead held in solution by the water in common use, and with it passed into the system. The quantities of metallic salt thus held and borne onwards by water are not unfrequently so infinitesimal that ordinary tests for its detection fail, until large quantities of the water to be experimented on are reduced and concentrated by the process of evaporation. Yet it is by the continued introduction of homoeo- pathic doses of metallic poison, that the strongest constitutions are gra- dually broken down by causes which lie beyond the ken of friends, or even medical men of average attain- ments. The ease with which the metal lead can be bent, conver- ted into tubes, fused, cut, soldered, and jointed, tends greatly to induce those en- gaged in lay- ing down a water- supply to make use of it in preference to other ^ materials, and so long as lead water - pipes can, without a breach of the law, be cramped to our walls and made to invade our dwellings, so long shall we have to contend with the evils they bring with them. And here we may repeat a remark made in a former paper that the wide- spread notion that filters possess the power of freeing water from mineral impurities, is entirely erroneous. Gaseous and some other contaminations are to be removed by care- fully-conducted filtration, but solutions of mineral salts remain as such, and are unacted on by any filter properly so called. However, it is not our intention here to enter into a discussion on filters, as their mode of con- struction and management will be fully considered as we proceed with our subject. Earthenware, iron, wood, glass, and zinc are all, in addition to lead, more or less made use of as materials for the manufacture of water-pipes, according to the position, &c., in which they are to be 17—N.S. placed. Hollow bamboos are extensively used in tropical countries in lieu of artificial tubing, for the conveyance and protection of water for both domestic and agricul- tural purposes. In this country much outlay of money, inconvenience, and uncertainty are saved by the enterprise of public water-companies, who do that for the house- holder which, in a colony or partially- settled district he would have to do for himself—viz., discover a source from which a supply of moderately pure water can be obtained, and then, by the use of pipes, tubes, or other contrivances, bring it to his own door. We will leave a consideration of the sources from which water is best obtained for a future paper, and deal with a case in which water has been laid on in the usual manner, subject to the periodical turnings on and off by the water com- pany’s servants. In order that a suffi- cient supply should be collected during the influx to last until the time arrives for a further supply, cisterns, barrels, tanks, and a whole host of other reser- voirs are had recourse to. In bygone days it was the custom to watch the supply-pipe during the period of inflow, and when the store vessel was filled, a tap was turned, in order to prevent overflow, waste, and inconvenience. This system, although efficient enough when strictly carried out, led to endless domestic strife when neglected. Water turned on during the absence or slumbers of the watcher overflowed the barrels or cisterns, deluged the house or court, and caused confusion worse com founded. The labours of the ingenious were there- fore directed to the manu- facture of an automaton, or self - act- ing water- watcher, which should be always on the alert and prepared to govern the supply, come when it would. This important duty is to some extent performed by the common form of ball-cock. This arrangement,although extremely simple in its mode of action, is so little understood by the ma- jority of house-keepers, that it may be well to make its per- formances and shortcomings clear to even the most unmechanical. In order to do this, we must refer the reader to Fig. i in the annexed illustration. This shows the cistern at a low ebb, the surface of the water having sunk to a low level. The hollow metal-ball, A, which floats on and is supported by it, sinks also and, as it drops lower and lower, its stern or lever B is also depressed, and, like a long powerful cross handle, gradually turns the barrel of the cock, or tap, to which it is secured by a square and pin, and thus causes the water to flow. It will be observed that in Fig. 1 the cistern is shown as nearly emoty, the ball being sunk