DOMESTIC SURGERY. 52 smarting pain, and turns the finger black, but this wears off in a few days. A solution of caustic answers as well, or even better, than the solid caustic in these cases, and the ordinary “ nitrate-bath ” of photography, to be found in so many houses, is very good for the purpose. Instead of the inflammation spreading in the above described way, it may be concentrated in the wounded spot, and give rise to a whitlow. In this case, fomentation of the whole hand, hot linseed-meal poultices, and support in a sling, will be the proper treatment ; but if matter forms, it will probably require an incision, in order to save the finger, and therefore early recourse should be had to a surgeon. Bites of animals may give rise to poisoned wounds, with- out there being any risk of hydrophobia ; and this is seen in the case of pet dogs, cats, squirrels, &c. The same treatment as for ordinary wounds, followed by that in- dicated for poisoned wounds, if occasion arises, would be proper in such cases. When there is the least reason to fear hydrophobia in the animal which has bitten, every precaution should be taken, which should include thorough cauterisation or extirpation of the wounded part; but this it is impossible for a non-medical person to carry out effec- tually. The bite of the adder is the only example of snake- poison met with in this country, and its effects, though serious, are not ordinarily fatal. In order to prevent, as far as possible, absorption of the poisonous material into the system, a string should be tied tightly above the wounded spot, which should be well sucked, the operator taking care to rinse his mouth out with a little brandy and water, and not to swallow any of the poison. After ihis, hot fomentations and a poultice will be the proper treatment. If the poison has spread up the limb, it gives rise to great swelling of the part, and this may even extend to the trunk. Friction with warm oil is the best remedy for this state of things, but it often does not subside for some days. The stings of wasps or bees are painful, but not dangerous, imless some vital part, such as the inside of the throat, is stung. The stings, which are often left in the part, should be extracted with fine forceps or tweezers, and the smarting pain may be allayed by a little moistened carbonate of soda being laid over, or some sal-volatile and oil rubbed on the part. Penetratmg IVojnids of a slight character arise from the incautious use of some common articles of domestic use, such as an ordinary sewing-needle, a crochet-needle, or a fish-hook. The ordinary needle, if buried beneath the skin of the hand or other part, may be readily ex- tracted if so placed that both ends can be felt. In that case, it is only necessary to press the end nearest the sur- face through the skin, and it can be easily withdrawn. If, however, as more frequently happens, only one end can be felt, and it is uncertain what length of steel is in the tissues, attempts to force the needle out lead generally to its being buried deeper ; and it is better, therefore, to have recourse to medical advice at once, in order that the surgeon may, if he think it advisable, at once cut down upon the foreign body. Operations of this kind, though apparently trivial, should never be undertaken by amateurs, since the hand is too important an organ to be cut into lightly by one unacquainted with its anatomy; and, besides, there is usually no great urgency in the case, and the needle may very well be left alone until, in process of time, it makes its way to the surface, as it is pretty sure to do. Crochet-needles are more difficult to manage than ordinary needles, owing to the hook at one end. If merely driven accidentally into the skin, the wound may be cau- tiously enlarged with a lancet or sharp and clean pen- knife, so as to allow of the withdrawal of the barb ; but if deeply embedded in a finger, or, as has happened, in the tongue of a child, it will be necessary to push the point through in order to cut the hook off with a pair of wire- pliers, and for this medical assistance should, if possible, be obtained. Fish-hooks are to be treated on a similar plan, except that the disciple of Walton, being gene- rally alone and at a distance when the accident happens, must be content to cut the line from the mischievous hook, and having forced the barb through the nearest point of skin, should draw the hook through the wound thus made. Bleeders are persons who suffer from what is scienti- fically called a “ haemorrhagic diathesis ”—i.e., they bleed profusely with the slightest scratch, and the blood is so peculiar that there is the greatest difficulty in stopping its flow. This disease is found to affect sometimes only one or two members of a family, is often hereditary, and may be traced through many generations. It is, fortunately, of not very common occurrence, and is only mentioned here in order to warn parents of children who suffer from a tendency to bleed, that they should always inform their medical man and their dentist of the fact, so that, as far as possible, all sources of bleeding may be avoided ; and should haemorrhage accidentally occur, immediate medical assistance should be obtained, since every hour’s delay renders it more difficult to stop the bleeding. Bleeding from the Nose is sometimes violent, and usually an evidence of some derangement of the general health, for which medical advice should be sought. In order to check the bleeding, cold water may be employed to bathe the face and head ; or ice-water may be injected with a syringe or india-rubber bottle into one nostril, when, if the patient will keep the mouth open, the water will flow round the nose and out of the opposite nostril. In slight cases, merely sniffing up cold air forcibly will often check the bleeding, and, in addition, powdered alum or tannin may be used as snuff. When the bleeding con- tinues for any time, the surgeon should be called in to plug the nostrils. Bruises and Contusions are common accidents where there are children, and fortunately a child is able to sustain, without serious after-consequences, a bruise which might be of importance to an older person. A severe bruise is alarming to the bystanders on account of the rapid swell- ing which takes place, and is annoying, in addition, to the recipient on account of the ecchymosis or discoloration left for some days after. The application of cold in any form has a tendency to check the swelling and sub-cuta- neous extravasation of blood constituting a bruise, and this may be applied in any form most convenient—cold vinegar and water, iced water, or the favourite cold metal spoon. Raw beef-steak is popularly supposed to have a great controlling effect upon bruises, but apparently with- out good foundation. There is a medical remedy of recognised utility in these cases, however, and this is the tincture of aimica ; and this may be painted on the skin, if not broken, or applied diluted with water, if the skin is torn. There is, however, one caution to be observed in the use of arnica—that in some persons it excites an irritation of the skin closely resembling erysipelas, par- ticularly if applied to a broken surface. Some caution should, therefore, be used in its first application, though the frequency of the occurrence of any untoward result is probably very greatly exaggerated. Contusions arc more severe accidents than mere superficial bruises (with which, however, they may be combined), since they may endanger the life of the sufferer from injury to deep-seated and important organs. The immediate effect of a severe contusion of any part is ordinarily to produce faintness and nausea, and for this the patient should be laid in an horizontal position, should be allowed plenty of fresh air (and consequently should not be crowded upon by bystanders), and may, if able to swallow', drink a small quantity of weak brandy and water or wine. On recovering from the first faintness, no other symptoms may appear, and the patient may have received no further injuiy than the “shock” of the accident; but if, from the