POINT LACE WORK. with a low price of bread and a high price of potatoes, which are imported in comparatively small quantities, so that the tendency of home agriculture has been to cultivate such crops as will give the largest return for outlay, and consequently it is probable that for the future there will be less grain and larger green crops grown than hitherto. The effect of short green crops is usually shown by a fall in the price of meat before Christmas—in consequence of the great expenditure necessary to keep and fatten cattle during the winter, when mangel-wurzel, turnips, and hay are high priced— and by a considerable rise in its price during the other winter months. In addition to the value of the wheat imported, there were above ^20,000,000 worth of barley, maize, oats, and other cereals brought to this country in 1875, and rather more than ;^24,ooo,ooo in 1876. Wheat {Triticum) is the most important article of vegetable food, but varies materially in its quality accord- ing to the soil in which it is grown. As before stated, very large quantities are imported from abroad. The total imports have increased very largely since 1870, when they were, under the present system of calculating imports, only 30,901,229 cwts. of wheat in grain, against 51,876,517 cwts. in 1875. In addition to these, there were 6,136,083 cwts. of flour imported. The weight of grain and flour imported in 1875 from Russia was 10,157,847 cwts., from Germany 6,613,544 cwts., from France 3,573,777 cwts., from Egypt 2,112,138 cwts., from British North America 4,069,565 cwts., from the United States 26,372,151 cwts., and from other places less than 1,000,000 cwts. each ; so that our largest supply is now derived from the United States, and the next largest from Russia. As Oats {Avena sativa) are chiefly used as food for horses, and only in comparatively small quantities by man in Scotland and Ireland, we will merely mention that 12,435,888 cwts. (of which about one-half came from Russia) were imported in 1875 ; also 310,103 cwts. of Rye, and 118,168 cwts. of Buckwheat, were imported in the same year. Barley will be mentioned when treating of beer. Maize [Zea Mays') is now brought to this country in enormous quantities, as in 1875 its value was ;£8,ii2,i58, and in 1876, ^12,744,432. Only a very small proportion of this was used for food of man, the chief part being eaten by horses instead of oats. Rice (Oryza) is procured in large quantities from India and America. The total imported in 1875 amounted to 16,601 qrs. in the husk, and as much as 6,719,894 cwts. not in the husk ; the values being ;,((2 7,440 of the former, and as much as ^3,006,122 of the latter. The rice received from Bombay is sweet, large-grained, and some- what reddish ; whilst that from Patna is smaller, and very white ; whilst that brought from Carolina is con- sidered to be the best, and fetches the highest price. Pease.—The common Pea {Pisum sativum) is grown largely in England, and is eaten most commonly as an ordinary vegetable when in season. When dried and split, it is used in soup or as a pudding. It is very nourishing, as it contains a large quantity of nitrogenous matter, and about two per cent, of fat. There were 1,615,132 cwts. of pease imported in 1875, of which 773,432 cwts. came from British North America, and 501,125 cwts. from the United States ; a smaller quantity was imported in 1876. Beans {Faba vulgaris) arc but little used in the United Kingdom, except the Windsor or broad bean, and the kidney bean. There are two varieties of the latter—viz., the Dwarf or French Beati {Pha-uolus vulgaris), and the Scarlet Runner [Phascolus ynultijlorus). When French beans are shelled and dried they are known as haricot beans. It is to be regretted that they are not eaten more generally in this country as an article of food, as they are highly nutritious. POINT LACE WORK.—II. In our first chapter on modern point lace, when alluding to the several uses to which this work may be applied, we mentioned, amongst others, the ornamentation of various articles of furniture, and tve now give a design for this purpose. It is called “ the Spanish Point Trefoil,” and will be found extremely effective when worked, and is applicable to many purposes. The design, as before, should be drawn on tracing-linen, and tacked in the same manner as then described on toile dree, or glazed calico. The braid, to give it proper effect, should be a plain, fine, close point-lace one, of the width in the cut. This braid must be carefully sewn on throughout the pattern, over all the double lines, winding it double, and beginning with each end as in our last pattern. The outside edge must exactly follow the line, the stitches being taken through the pattern, keeping the braid well strained, and sewing it over to prevent its widening Where sharp turns are required. When the outer edge is done, the inner one must next be attended to, and this must be gathered in to fit each turn, as, owing to its width, it will necessarily be much fuller on the inside of a curve than on the outside. A needle with fine thread must therefore be passed along this side of the braid, taking a small stitch over it, as in whipping a frill; and by means of this thread the braid may be drawn to fit the various curves of the design. Great care must be taken that this gathering thread be not in any place sewn through the material on which the pattern is traced; it must be on the surface only, and should be neatly done, as it cannot be touched again, and remains in when the work is completed. The next step is to do the “open overcast” stitch, described ii> our last, on the outside edge of the braid, throughout the pattern.. The Vandyke forming the outside of the entire design must be braided separately, and also edged with “ open overcastbut in the second part of the stitch, instead of taking the needle once through for the fastening, three or four stitches must be worked into the same “open” stitch, as at Fig. 2. For this edge a coarser thread should be used, and the sets of stitches not done too near each other. When all the open edge is worked, a thick smooth linen cord, called “ Spanish point-lace cord,” must be sewn at the outer side of the braid throughout the design, taking care to leave the “open overcast ” always visible. The thread used must be of middle size, and small stitches taken, so as to keep the cord securely in its place. This cord may be pur- chased of different sizes, according to the style of the work, but for our design a thick one will be most effective, although in this matter the worker’s own taste may be consulted. The outside vandyke does not require this cord. The bars should next be worked, and it will be observed that they differ from those described in our last chapter, inasmuch as each has in it a small knot, or excres- cence, as it were, and is worked thus :—The thread, not very fine, is darned along the braid, and brought out of one of the edge-stitches; it is then carried across to another “ open overcast,” and taken back again, which makes a foundation of two threads ; upon this, four or five- close overcast stitches are done, and the next begun in thj same way, and as close as possible to the last one ; but instead of being drawn up tightly, it is kept down by the left thumb-nail, to about an inch .long, and the needle with the thread passed very loosely seven times over the right-hand thread of the stitch, and then, taking care it should not be twisted, it is drawn up tightly, and the dot being thus formed, the needle and thread are passed up at the back of the stitch, and the close overcast is again proceeded with to the end of the bar. A plain piece of braid forms the heading to this design ; the inner edge of this is worked in “ open overcast,” and the outer one has three stitches of the same, and at the