287 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. linen and applied over the spot, and bound on firmly with strips of plaister half-an-inch wide. The strips of plaister (the common white strapping) should be about twelve inches long, and should be arranged star fashion ; they should be dipped in hot water in order to warm them, as they then stick much more firmly than if held to the fire. A roller of linen or fine flannel should be applied round the infant’s navel over this. In cases of larger protru- sion either in children or grown-up persons, a suitable abdominal support should be procured from an instrument maker, and should be worn with the same precautions as have been given for the use of a truss. Piles are often a very troublesome and painful affection, and are of various kinds, each of which requires a different treatment, for which a surgeon should be consulted. They are mentioned here principally in order to impress upon those who suffer from them and go on for years bearing pain, or even having their health undermined by constant loss of blood, that their disease is curable, and that they should not allow feelings of false delicacy to prevent their applying for relief. As a temporary means of relief, a sufferer may regulate the bowels with occasional doses of “lenitive electuary,” and may employ an enema of cold water. Habitual sufferers from affections of the bowels frequently derive very great comfort from relieving the bowels at night rather than in the morning, so as to obtain some hours’ rest in the horizontal position after an evacuation. Prolapse of the bowel in children should be gently returned after sponging with cold water. It may be simply the result of debility, or may be a symptom, in boys especially, of a much more serious affection—stone in the bladder—and the advice of a surgeon should therefore be obtained. l7ico7itmence of Urme m Sleep is very common among weakly children, and is often the cause of great suffering to a child at school, when he is punished for what he is quite unable to help. Careful supervision will often effect a cure by avoiding too long intervals of unbroken sleep, and the use of a night-light will obviate the fear of rising in the night or early morning, which is often a cause of the disaster. As this affection may be only the evidence of more important diseases, it will be well to have medical advice if the occurrence appears to be becoming habitual. The opposite condition of things—retention of urine—is much too serious an affection to be treated domestically, and i7ri7nediatc surgical attendance should be obtained for it, at whatever age it may occur. j GARDENING.—XIV. THE CULTURE OF VEGETABLES (continued from p. 272). j Asparagus.—The young shoots, when grown about j two inches above ground, are the parts to be used ; but of I this we shall speak more explicitly as we proceed. There are only two varieties cultivated—the red topped and the green topped ; the former rising with a very large, full, close head, of a reddish-green colour, and the latter not so plump and close, but generally considered better in flavour. Of these the former are the most esteemed by market gardeners ; the latter by private cultivators. ' One mode of culture is applicable to both. There are several sub-varieties, as, for instance, the Battersea, , Deptford, Gravesend, early Mortlake, Dutch, and large ■ i: Reading. This plant may be propagated bv dividing the root, but the most general and best way is'by seed, which should I be sown in March, broadcast, not very thickly, on beds four feet wide, or thereabouts, and in length according to the quantity required. Many gardeners make it a I' practice to tread the ground after sowing the seed, but we I object to this method, and, instead of it, make it a rule. after sowing the seed, to rake the ground smooth and even, being careful that the seed is all well covered ; and, when the plants have made their appearance, to keep them perfectly clear of weeds, and stir the ground about them twice or three times during the summer. Should the weather prove dry at the time, a little water should be given once a week. In October protect the roots by covering the ground with well-rotted stable manure or litter, which must remain on until all danger from frost is over. In the formation of new plantations the first thing necessary for our consideration is the situation, which should be open and unsheltered by trees or bushes ; as, unless the spot is fully exposed to the sun, success is next to an impossibility. Damp or wet ground, or where the subsoil is retentive of an undue quantity of wet, should, under any circumstances, be rejected, as being very prejudicial to this plant. The soil should be from two to two and a half feet deep, and of a light sandy loam. Some months previous to commencing planting see to the preparation of the ground, by trenching it, if possible, at least two and a half feet deep, at the same time mixing a good quantity of well-rotted manure with the soil. \Vhen it has lain in this state a month or more, if the weather permit, work the ground over again to the same depth, and repeat this two or three times, in order that the manure and soil may become well incorporated with each other. At the last turning over, before planting, lay a solid foundation of rich well-rotted manure in every trench, as no more can be applied for several years, or, indeed, so long as the beds stand. Make it a practice to perform this work in the best weather that can be commanded during the winter months, as such an operation should never be attempted during rainy or showery weather, inasmuch as it would only tend to make the soil heavy and cold. This portion of the work should be particularly attended to, as the preparation of the soil is of more moment than anything else during the whole course of its culture. In the removal of the plants from the seed-bed, and final planting, take especial care to perform the work of taking them up by means of a fork, being very careful not to break or cut the roots, or to leave them a longer time exposed to the sun and air than you can help, as very few plants feel a hurt more severely than this ; the roots, being brittle, are easily broken, and do not readily shoot out again. Although you may plant from the beginning of March to the end of May, the operation will not always be followed with the same success. The best time, so far as our own experience goes, is just when the plants are beginning to grow ; for when they are removed earlier the plants lie for some time in the ground in a dormant state, and consequently the roots, being of a succulent nature, absorb a considerable quantity of moisture, which, in nine cases out of every ten, causes them to rot, and then the destruction of the plant becomes inevitable. On the other hand, if removed too late, the power of the sun and air will greatly injure them, unless very great care be taken, and the roots put into a basket, or some other receptacle, with sand, as they are taken up. When your plants are ready, and the groundhaving been previously prepared as above, stretch a line lengthwise nine inches from the edge, as at Fig. 2, and with a spade cut down a trench six inches deep, perpendicular next to the line, turning the soil to the outer or other side of the trench; then, having the plants in readiness, set a row along the trench, nine inches apart, with the crowns of the roots two inches below the surface ; then move the line a foot further on, as shown at 2, Fig. 2, and open a second trench, turning the soil taken out of this into the first, over the roots just planted ; and so proceed, making an allowance of three feet between every four rows for alleys. Should the weather prove dry at the time, give a little water to