CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. i6r THE AQUARIUM.—VI. MARINE AQUARIUM (continued from f. 134). The selection of objects suitable for the aquarium having been made, upon reaching home they should at once be placed in as many vessels as you may happen to have at hand, and left to recover from the effects of their journey before being placed in the aquarium. The crabs will require to be secured by a perforated cover, otherwise they will be sure to find their way out. As the introduction of a dead animal is especially to be avoided, every object should be carefully examined with a magnifying glass, and well rinsed in sea water before being put into the aquarium. If there be any suspicious indications, keep the creature in water by itself until you are satisfied that it is, or is not, in a healthy condition. In arranging the rockwork of a marine aquarium, care should be taken to avoid the formation of hiding-places. The stones or pieces of granite should be piled up to Begin the furnishing of your aquaiium by arranging the sea-weed at the sides, leaving the space in front quite clear. The limpet-shells may either be embedded in the shingle at the bottom, or placed on the rocks, according as they may appear to the best advantage. The crabs should next be dropped in, and supplied with food. The best food for crabs and anemones is the flesh of the mussel or oyster, cut into very small shreds with a pair of scissors. If this is not to be had, raw beef is a good substitute, but shell-fish should always be pro- cured if possible. The edible crab before referred to is a very peaceable fellow; but the shore crab, though very like it in outward appearance, betrays a pugnacious dis- position. The hermit is also fond of a little warlike exercise, from which circumstance he has acquired the common name of the soldier crab ; but as the other kinds are fleeter of foot he will have no opportunity for the dis- play of his pugnacity, unless placed in company with one of his own species. When the hermit grows too large for A MARINE AQUARIUM. form a shelving background, which will shade the light, and at the same time prevent the creatures from getting out of sight. Immovable objects, such as serpulae, should be placed so as to be easily seen. Mussels, if deposited against the glass, will cling to it and creep up the side, thus revealing the suckers of the byssus, and affording an opportunity for observation by the magnifying glass. If the aquarium has been in preparation for some time, and green growth has commenced to germinate upon the stones, the live stock may be introduced at once. If not, the water will require to be aerated. This may be done by taking some out with a cup and pouring it back from a distance, or by emptying about one-third of the water into a watering pot and returning it in a shower through the rose. All the creatures you have collected are ac- customed to shallow water, which is well aerated by the splashing of the waves; it is therefore advisable to imitate this natural operation every day for a time, by moving a stick quickly backwards and forwards in the v^ater, say for five minutes continuously. When in- digenous vegetation has fairly set in, small air globules will be generated upon its surface, and these will rise so plentifully through the water as to give it a frothy ap- pearance. This may be taken as a sign that other means of aeration may be discontinued. Tt e jiX—IS.S, the shell he occupies, he goes in search of another that will afford him more room, and if he fails to discover an empty one to his taste, he will attempt to dislodge any other hermit that he may chance to meet. Then comes the tug of war, the end of which is that the vanquished generally loses a claw, and not unfrequently his life. By placing in the aquarium an empty shell, a little larger than the one inhabited, the hermit may be tempted to change his cell, which he does in this wise. He first in- spects the shell, walks round it, and turns it about; having made up his mind that it will answer his purpose, he with- draws his tail, which has no coating to protect it, but terminates in a pincer-like formation, pushes it into its new abode, and walks off with an evident feeling of pride at his achievement. The pincers enable him to keep tight hold of the shell, without which no hermit crab can be considered complete. On close examination it will be noticed that one claw is larger than the other ; the smaller one is always drawn in first, and the larger one is laid across the mouth of the shell. Sometimes, However, the hermit does not alone occupy the shell, but will submit to accommodate a colony of serpulse or a parasitic anemone on the outside, and a worm (the Laminated Nereus) within. Should the hermit forsake his abode and limp about in an uncomfortable manner, he will require looking after, for