COOKERY. 310 them, as usual, are spiked at the lower end over the lower rafters. The laths and tiles are then laid as usual, and the effect, as seen in the section, is an opening for ven- tilation half-way up the roof, along its whole length, equal to the depth of the rafters. The upper set of tiles should overlap about twelve inches, which will quite prevent the driving in of rain, and any necessity for louvre boards, &c., is avoided. To prevent the air from stagnating in a crowded shed, openings may be m.ade in the walls nearer the ground, as far as possible from the animals, and covered with perforated zinc. Plenty of light is easily given by the use of a glass tile at intervals, and the whole of the work is therefore of the cheapest description possible. The most convenient arrangement for the interior of the sheds is also shown in the section. It is best divided by wooden partitions into stalls about eight feet wide, which will contain two cows; but they may be kept with- out any partitions at all with no difficulty. Along the lightest side of the shed should run a clear passage four or five feet wide, for the passage of the attendant with the food and water; and if the number of cows be more than half a dozen, it will be a great saving of labour to lay down a line of rails, as shown, when the food can be all carried at once in a large truck (b) ; and by having a tank mounted with a small pump, water can be supplied in the same way, but a long pipe running along all the troughs with a tap over each, is preferable. If only a few cows are kept the railway is not needed. At the end of the passage should be the room or house where the food is prepared. The animals are most conveniently fastened to posts (c), over which is slipped a ring sliding up and down, hav- ing attached to it a chain long enough to allow the cow sufficient liberty. If other modes of fastening are adopted, the cow cannot turn round to lick herself when irritated. The floor should be very slightly inclined towards the back, that the liquid portion of the manure may run into the drain (d), and may be pitched, all but the upper portion, which should be of hard trodden earth or con- crete (h), les the cows should injure their knees. If the posts are pLxed about a foot from the rail (f) which parts off the passages, the space between is convenient for fixing the food and water troughs (g), as shown in the section. These should be raised about 18 inches from the ground. In large dairies the cows are often placed in double rows with a passage between. This has been thought injurious, from the animals breathing on each other; but we think if the passage be wide enougji the evil must be small, unless in the case of pleuro-pneumonia, or other infectious disease. Small sheds are easily arranged on a similar system ; and where a ready-made builcung has to be made avail- able, it is only needful to see that the ventilation be perfectly provided somewhere above the lev'el of the animals, which should be screened from draughts, and the floor be arranged in some such way as can be easily cleansed. In such sheds—be they large or small—the cows may be housed at night all through the year with great advan- tage. The free use of the curry comb is needful, of course, and when followed by a good brushing, especially down the legs, will keep the skin in beautiful condition, and the animal will be contented and happy. Cows require, in an ordinary way, decidedly gentle treatment; and the importance of keeping them clean and their house well ventilated, cannot very easily be over-estimated. A good cow well treated is often a fortune to a poor man, ;ind to the rich man its possession is as often a source of special satisfaction, from tire various ways in which it may Ire made to minister to the family wants. Some of these we shall point out in a future number, and in another section of our work. COOKERY.—XIX. SOUPS (continuedfrom p. 304). Mulligatawny Sotip is a name that may be applied to any brown thickened soup highly seasoned with curry powder. It probably originated in the demand for soup at short notice and the necessity of cooking meat fresh in a hot climate. Kill, singe, and empty a chicken, which should be young and tender. While it is still warm cut it up into small joints, and fry them immediately in plenty of butter. When nearly done enough, take them out and set aside. In the same butter fry six or more large onions sliced. When done, put them with the bits of chicken. If there is not butter enough, add more, and in it brown flour for thickening. Stir in a little good veal stock, or chicken, or other broth, if convenient; if not, you must be content with water. Then stir in a dessert- spoonful of curry powder or more, according to the degree of heat approved of. Then add the rest of your broth to make up the required quantity of soup. Put in your onions and bits of chicken, and stew up till the latter are quite tender. Season with salt and a little lemon-juice. Other spices are sometimes added, but they are over- powered by the flavour of the curry powder.' Garlic (to be fried with the onions) is admissible. You may send up boiled rice in a vegetable-dish as an accompaniment to mulligatawny soup.—N.B. A chicken killed yesterday, or even the day before, will do. A rabbit may be substi- tuted for the chicken, and even veal or mutton chops. All the Year Round’s Mulligatawny.—Take two quarts of water, and boil a fowl ; then add to it a white onion, a chili, two teaspoonfuls of pounded ginger, two of curry powder, one teaspoonful of turmeric, and half a spoonful of black pepper. Boil these for half an hour. Then fry some small onions and add to the soup. Season with salt, and serve up. Giblet Soup.—Procure two sets of goose giblets, scald the feet and legs to remove the outer skin, cut off the claws. Cut off the head, remove the bill and eyes, split it. Cut the neck into three, the pinion-bones into two, the liver into two, the heart into two, and the gizzard into four pieces. Set them on the fire in cold water to stew, re- membering that the liver takes less time, the gizzard longer, to cook thoroughly, than the other portions. Then proceed exactly as directed for ox-tail soup. In some markets goose and duck giblets are sold ready for use, except the division above directed. Turkey giblets might be used, but it is not customary to truss the bird without them. The best giblet soup is from those of the cygnet, which is not often to be had. Cabbage Soup.—Put into your soup-kettle (three parts full of cold water) a couple of pounds of sweet bacon or pork that has not been too long in salt. This is indispen- sable. You may add a bit of knuckle of veal, of mutton, of gravy beef, or all three. Skim well as they come to a boil. Shred into a pail of cold water the hearts of one or two cabbages, some carrots, turnips, celery, and leeks. When the soup boils, throw all these in, and skim again if necessary. When the vegetables are tender without falling to pieces the soup is cooked. You may thicken with a few crushed boiled potatoes. For a true Puree of Green Peas.— If the season is advanced, take a quart or mor^ of old (not dry) peas; boil them quite tender, or to a mash, in no more water than will cover them, with care not to burn. Squeeze them through a cullender, keeping back the skins. If old peas are not be had, you must use young ones. Boil down a quantity of the juiciest pea shells, squeeze their liquor through a cullender, and add it to the puree of old peas; stir in the required quantity of good veal stock. Season with salt and pepper. Throw in a pint of young green peas boiled tender, a few fried or toasted bread dice, and serve.