46 POULTRY. There is one more point on this head. The face, when very hot or dirty, or after a walk, should not be washed in soap. It is better to bathe, not rub, it in a little warm water, and then powder it with ordinary baby powder and let it dry. THE BATH, AND BATHING IN GENERAL. There are very few individuals who could not take daily ablution in the way of the sponge bath. It is true that the majority of people are quite unacquainted with such a thing, from childhood to old age, as the morning dip or the cold douche, but this is the reverse of what really should be the case. It is, perhaps, hopeless to expect that any reformation can be effected in the case of those who have up to the mid period of life avoided the bath, but we may be able, perhaps, to persuade mothers of families to train up their children in the way they should go, and the young portion of our readers to adopt a means of pro- moting health, which will alone do very much, if persist- ently followed, in even prolonging life. The babe should be subject every morning to a good sponge all over, with, in the winter time, warmish water; soap being used as well. Those parts in contact with the napkins should be washed carefully at night as well as in the morning. The temperature of the room should also be good in winter, and the babe dried rapidly by the use of towels warmed before the fire. In the summer a dip into tepid or nearly cold water itself, or in the case of ruddy children, quite cold, is to be given. When the child comes to be three or four months old it should have become accustomed to its “tub” regularly in the morning, and in the summer time the water may be even cold, provided the skin feels warm after the child comes out of the bath, and after gentle friction with a warm or dry towel. The head should be washed first of all with soap and flannel. When the child is in the bath the back may be freely douched with the sponge. When children are given the bath from an early age, they take it each day with peculiar enjoyment. There need be no difficulty in the way of expense; a wooden bath suitable for infants can be bought in the turners’ shops for a few shillings, and the ordinary sponge baths, fitted for youths, girls, and adults, of a common sort, cost something inconsiderable. If the cold douche bath is taken at an early age, it should be persevered with throughout life, and only relinquished temporarily in febrile ailments. The best time for every one to take the cold bath is immediately on getting out of bed, before the body becomes chilled. The test whether the bath does good or harm is to be found in the occur- rence of shiverings, cold feet, a sense of coldness over the body, and an absence of “glow” over the surface. In such circumstances, the water taken must be tepid, and friction with towels must be freely employed. Hot baths should only be taken, as a rule, as a cleansing operation ; in fact, for the “ Saturday night’s wash,” so to speak. Those who are taking active exercise, on the one hand, in their occupation, and those, on the other, who lead a sedentary life, are benefited by a good soaping all over and a rinsing in warm water every fortnight, in ad- dition to their cold douche each day. So with the Turkish bath. It may be taken as a clean- sing operation ; it cannot supersede the cold bath in the morning. When the skin gets dry and inactive, and the cuticle feels rough, the forced perspiration and the tho- rough wash and soaping one gets in the Turkish bath, tend to remove the worn out and dead cuticle which col- lects on the skin. The Turkish bath should be taken before a meal, not at least until three hours after a meal, and the bather should be perfectly quiescent in the bath, lying down as much as possible. He may drink a little water from time to time, and place a little water on the head if it gets dry and hot. Turkish baths, however, for healthy persons, do not find much favour with us. A good deal has been said with regard to the efficacy of flesh gloves and brushes. These are very good in their way, but there is no better way of promoting the proper circulation of the blood (for flesh brushes and the like act in this way) than by rubbing the skin freely, but mo- derately and firmly, with a fairly rough towel. If, from long-continued cold weather, or east winds, the perspira- tion has been retarded, the skin may become harsh to the feel from the plugging up of the little sweat glands by dead cuticle; then a vigorous application of the flesh brush, after a good soaping of the surface, may do very much good. In addition to the home or douche bath, there is the plunge bath, river or other, to be considered. Bathing in general, such as we now refer to, is very injudiciously practised, and it is much to be regretted that parents, heads of schools, and others, are so extremely ignorant generally of the best rules for bathing. The proper time is when the body is moderately heated with exercise, and when the process of digestion is at an end, and the water into which the bather goes has been somewhat warmed by the sun. The reason for bathing when the body is heated slightly by exercise is simply this, that the circulation is excited and active, and is on the qui vive, as it were, to prevent any bad effect of the shock of the plunge. If the body is cool, or the bather fatigued, the vital powers are depressed rather than stimulated by the cold plunge. The whole body should be immersed. As stated before, in reference to the cold douche, the test of a bath agreeing with any individual is to be found in the occurrence of what is termed “ reaction.” If after the plunge the blood circu- lates freely through the skin, and a feeling of warmth and freshness is experienced, we know that the bath has acted as a tonic. If the bather feels shivery and cold, the bath does harm, and when this latter condition is found to exist in weakly subjects, it is better that medical advice should be at once taken, before bathing is again permitted. The following rules, drawn up by the Royal Humane Society, are good :— 1. Avoid bathing within two hours after a meal. 2. Avoid bathing when exhausted. 3. Avoid bathing when the body is cooling after per- spiration. 4. Bathe when the body is warm. 5. Avoid chiUing the body after bathing by sitting naked on banks or in boats. 6. Avoid staying too long in the water. Leave it directly there is the slightest feeling of chilliness. 7. Avoid bathing altogether in the open air if, after having been a short time in the water, there is a sense of chilliness or numbness of hands and feet. 8. The vigorous and strong may bathe early in the morning on an empty stomach. 9. The young and the weak had better bathe three hours after a meal—best after breakfast. 10. Those who are subject to attacks of giddiness and faintness, or palpitation, &c., should not bathe without first consulting their medical adviser. POULTRY.—II. THE FEEDING AND GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF ADULT FOWLS. A judicious system of feeding is very essential to the well-being of poultry, and has, of course, more direct influence upon the profit or loss than any of the circum- stances— though equally important — which we have before enumerated. We shall, therefore, endeavour to give the subject a full and practical consideration. The object is to give the quantity and quality of food