3i6 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART. Material.—Various kinds of clay are occasionally used, but for general purposes, and certainly for amateurs, the best is Devonshire pipe-clay. This may be obtained in a state fit for use at any pipe-maker’s, at potteries, or at the shops of most plaster-figure moulders. The cost, when bought in small cjuantities, will not exceed one penny per pound, and in large quantities will be much less ; a quarter of a ton may be had at from ten to fifteen shillings. A single shilling’s worth will suffice for a beginner. For works on a large scale, sand is some- times mixed with the clay to make it handle more freely; and where very delicate finish is required, as in the minute figures in silversmiths’ work, a certain proportion of grease is occasionally added ; but, for ordinary pur- poses, the clay may be taken as the pipe-maker prepares it for his own use. In consistency it should be rather softer than putty, and more nearly resembling that of butter. It will generally be about right in this respect when procured; should it, however, be too stiff, it may be softened by the addition of a little water—wrapping it in a wet cloth will do it most effectually ; if too soft, exposure to the air will soon harden it sufficiently. It is most desirable that it should always be kept at the degree of moisture proper for work. Let the ama- teur, then, procure a glazed earthen pan with a well-fitting lid, such as he can buy at any earthenware shop for about two shillings. In it the clay should be placed with so much water as will barely cover the bottom. From this there will be no sen- sible escape of moisture, and the clay will remain in the same state for months. After the clay has been used, it will be necessary, in order to prepare it for employ- ment a second time, to break it into pieces of about the size of walnuts, and then place in a pan with so much water as may be needed to bring it to its original state as regards moisture. When soaked, it must be thoroughly beaten up with an iron bar, and whilst that operation is being performed, all fragments of plaster of Paris, and other foreign substances, which may happen to have become mixed with it, must be carefully picked out. If the beating is not done thoroughly, in such a manner as to reduce the whole to one uniform con- sistency, some difficulty will be found, when the clay is used, in obtaining an even surface, and the work will have the appearance technically known as “lumpy;” but if the beating up is done properly, the clay will become of better quality with each successive using. The writer remembers some clay being given to him, as of superlative excellence, by a well-known old sculptor, which had been constantly manipulated for more than thirty years. Tools.—The necessary tools are few and simple. The more important, which are used for pushing, smoothing, and scraping, are generally made of box-wood, but some- times of bone or ivory, and are usually about six or seven inches long. Half a dozen of these, of useful shapes, will be sufficient. One or two “wire tools’’should also be bought. The wire tool consists of a little piece of round wood to serve as a handle, into both ends of which pieces of bent brass wire, flattened and serrated, arc in- serted. This instrument will be found of value when it is necessary to scrape away the clay more deeply than can conveniently be done with one of wood or bone. Modelling tools may be bought of any large artists’ colourman, and will cost from sixpence to eightpence each ; but any person can make the wooden ones for himself with a knife, a file, and a piece of sand-paper. In the cut below are given several of the most useful shapes. The illustration will furnish patterns to the maker, and guide the purchaser ; for nothing is more common than for the beginner to select tools from the great variety shown to him which, in his after practice, he will find of no service whatever. It will also be well to have two or three small hog-hair and camel-hair pencils, a pair of compasses, and a piece of sponge of close and regular texture. If he is ambitious of modelling life-size busts, the amateur will also require callipers, for taking exact measurements of the head, and a “ banker ” or modelling stool. This is simply a strongly- made stool of about three feet six inches high and eighteen inches diameter at the top. The top must be made of double thicknesses of board, and the upper portion so contrived as to turn, by means of a pivot, upon the lower, for the purpose of allowing the bust to be freely moved in any direction. Sometimes a screw is also intro- duced which allows the modeller to raise or lower his work at pleasure ; but this latter con- trivance is not absolutely neces- sary, and tends to make the stool unsteady. Any carpenter will construct the “banker” for a few shillings ; but neither this nor the callipers will be needed by the majority of amateur mo- dellers, and none will require them at the outset. The First Lesson.— Let us now suppose that our intending amateur has furnished himself with all necessary appliances, and is ready for his initiatory lesson. For his first attempt he will do well not to choose a sub- ject demanding great delicacy of execution or minute finish. In whatever style he may after- wards propose to work, he cannot do better than begin by making a copy from a plaster cast of a portion of one of the antique statues. Let him take a mask (that is the face only) of, say, the Apollo Belvedere, which will be admirable for the pur- pose. He can buy it of any plaster-figure moulder for a shilling. It may be well, briefly, to give reasons for selecting this. It is, in the first place, large (somewhat larger than life—what is called “ heroic ” size), and thus almost every part can be modelled with the thumbs and fingers, without much recourse being had to tools—for learning how to master the clay with the tools of Nature’s providing is a great point in the art; the modeller will soon see that wherever they can be brought to bear they are infinitely preferable to any other, and the earlier he learns to use them in his course of study the better. In the second place, in this mask all the surfaces are broad, and the forms clearly defined—there is nothing to perplex or distract the novice. Thirdly, it is a face full of beauty, and the task of copying it, whatever difficulties may arise, cannot be otherwise than a delightful one. Before beginning, a piece of board must be procured some two feet long by eighteen inches broad, and this must be propped on the table in such a manner as to form an inclined plane, sloped at such an angle as is most convenient to the student. Towards one end the plaster cast must be fixed ; then, with the sponge, the other half of the board must be slightly wetted for