i88 CATTLE. CATTLE.—I. THE VARIETIES OF CATTLE. In these papers it is our intention to give such informa- tion as may be of practical utility to those who keep two or three cows only ; the limits of our space and the scope of the magazine alike forbid a wider consideration of the subject. Before entering upon the general management of cattle, it will be well to describe shortly the principal breeds, pointing out their special merits and principal defects. The Shorthorn is an animal of magnificent shape, being very large and full in the body, and low on the leg, with fine bones. The back and belly should form nearly straight lines ; indeed, in the best animals the body, when viewed sideways, forms nearly a parallelogram, whose length is twice its breadth. The fore-quarters are fore-quarters light, and the limbs fine and delicate looking ; the back, however, is very broad over the hips and the carcase rather deep. The udder is large and well-shaped, as might be expected. The usual colour is sandy-red, distributed in patches, mingled with white. The principal drawback to this breed is the rather small size, which involves more labour for the same produce. Hence this is essentially a country dairy cow. Singularly enough, however, it does not always thrive in the rich pastures of England, but in some cases the yield of milk diminishes, and the animal lays in fat instead. The Alderney, a Channel Island cow, does not, as is popular supposed, yield any extraordinary quantity of milk, but is remarkable for its very rich quality. Hence an Alderney cow is often kept in dairies to enrich the pro- duce of the stock. It is a small animal, of very angular SHORTHORN COW. very deep, and the head fine and small, while the dis- position is particularly mild and gentle. The Shorthorn is confessedly the most valuable breed of cattle we have, and combines all the useful qualities in a greater proportion than any other animal. Of late some breeders have paid more attention to the fattening than the milking qualities of the Shorthorn, and hence the coarser variety, known as the Yorkshire, is generally preferred by London dairymen. These latter cows have been known to give sixteen quarts of milk per day; but even the improved Shorthorn cow will generally yield sixteen quarts daily, many of them much more. Lately the Yorkshire cows have been crossed with improved Shorthorn bulls, and the result is a cow which can hardly be equalled where a large quantity of milk is csired, while it fattens well when dried. The Ayrshire is another splendid dairy breed. While the Shorthorn is peculiar for the quantity of the milk, and is hence adapted to town supply, the Ayrshire seems pre-eminently suited for the production of butter and cheese, the milk being not only plentiful, but of a richer quality. It does not, however, fatten so well as the Short- horn when dried. The Ayrshire cow is under the middle size, but of singularly handsome proportions. The head is small and fine, rather long and narrow at the muzzle, which is black ; the horns are small and short, the eye very clear and lively. The neck is somewhat long and slender, the form, as generally met with, looking, in fact, as if starved, from the great projection of the bones. When dried, how- ever, it often fattens well. On the whole, this cannot be considered a very profitable cow, the return of milk not being commensurate in quantity with its great appetite ; hence very many purchasers of this breed have been greatly disappointed. Its place is rather to supply the gentleman’s table with the richest quality of dairy pro- duce, where pecuniary pi'ofit is not so much desired. The Alderney cow is generally very hollow behind, with high shoulders, and a very thin neck, and is also remark- able for very long and thick hair. The colour is generally white and fawn. The Guernsey animals are often thought to be rather superior; but this is a doubtful point. Alderney cattle are very easily obtainable at Southampton. A more profitable animal in most circumstances is the Breton, or Brittany cow, which has rapidly grown in popularity since its introduction a few years ago. This breed is very small—even diminutive—rarely standing more than forty-two inches high at the shoulder, and often eight or ten inches less ; but it is remarkable for its symmetry, hardihood, very great milk-producing quali- ties relative to its size, and peculiar aptitude for laying on flesh with very moderate, or even coarse, feeding. The head is short, sharp, and fine; the muzzle small, with beautifully cut nostrils ; eye quick and lively ; ears small and neat; and horns slender, curving at first upwards and downwards, the points afterwards turning into each