21 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. is thickly strewn or intermixed with brick and rubble, which must be carefully cleared away before he can do any good with it. Even this rubbish, however, will be useful in small quantities, as a little of it interspersed in the subsoil will assist in the drainage of the ground. It is a common mistake to remove all stones from the earth or mould. They assist in keeping the ground open and making it porous, preventing it from caking in the heat of summer, or being washed out of the beds on to the paths in heavy showers of rain. Moreover, in hot weather stones are highly useful in preventing the loss of moisture from the plants by evaporation; for, if you remove a stone from the surface of the mould, you will generally find the earth damp underneath. Then, again, the soil may be shallow in depth, and require either that fresh soil should be imported or that the subsoil should be brought up by trenching—an opera- tion which we shall hereafter explain. Lastly, and more commonly still, the fruitfulness of the ground may have been quite exhausted by previous operations, in which case plenty of manure must be dug well into it. Rotted stable manure is the best possible material for this pur- pose, but many others are easily procured. Road scrapings, matter gathered from ditch bottoms, all kinds of vegetable refuse, with lime, soot, &c., are all useful in their way, according to the character of the soil and its condition. The right use of manures will form the subject of a future chapter. ASPECT OF THE GROUND. Other considerations to which proper regard must be paid are the aspect and the surroundings of the garden. If the general aspect be south or south-west, you may attempt to grow vines, fruit trees, and many delicate vegetables and flowers with which you would certainly fail if your garden were exposed chiefly to north and easterly winds. It may be that your plot of ground is so situated that you have two entirely different aspects, one side being fully exposed to the genial influences of the sun and the south-west breezes, and the other lying nearly always in the shade, and meeting only the keener winds. You will find both sides useful for different purposes. On the brighter side, for instance, besides planting your vines and fruit trees, you may sow your seeds in spring, and the rising plants will get warmth and shelter until they are ready for planting out. The other side will be equally valuable as summer advances ; for many of your vegetables and tender plants which would be burnt up by the heat, will here flourish in the shade. You must carefully observe, then, the aspect of the ground, and be guided by this in your planting WALLS AND FENCES. The next point for consideration is the manner in which the garden is enclosed—whether by fence or wall. Brick walls, as a rule, are much less suited to gardening purposes than open fences. They obstruct the light, and the free passage of air to the plants. The wind and the rain beat forcibly against them, and all things immediately within their shelter suffer in consequence. On the other hand, they have their occasional advantages. A good wall facing the sun is the most suitable spot in the garden for a vine or a plum tree, as it retains and reflects the heat to ripen the fruit. If fruit is not desired, many of the climbing plants, such as the Virginian creeper and the blue pas- sion-flower, common in the southern counties of England, may be used as a covering and ornament. For a damp wall, ivy is the best thing, as it will keep it dry ; but in a garden it should be kept cut close, and thinned from time to time, otherwise it will grow unsightly, and form a breeding place for a colony of vermin. A continuous wooden fence presents the disadvantages of a wall without its advantages ; therefore choose, if you can, a garden enclosed by an open palisading, which will admit the light freely to the plants, and at the same time break the force of strong currents of wind, while it allows a thorough cir- culation of air. LAYING OUT THE GARDEN. Now as to the planning out and arrangement of your garden. If you have an open fence, this will require less consideration, and the usual plan of a narrow bed round the sides, with others in the centre, will do very well, supposing you wish to grow flowers chiefly. But if you aim at the culture of vegetables, it is preferable, if the garden is a small one, to have the sides occupied by wider beds, with one pathway running down the centre. Thus you get more available space, and can cultivate your vegetables in larger and wider strips, which will be much more convenient for planting, &c., and, at the same time, more favourable to their growth. If a small garden is enclosed by a wall, the best arrange- ment is to have the paths running round the outer sides, leaving the whole of the central space for your plants and flowers. Thus you bring them out of the shade into as much light and air as can find their way into the enclo- sure. It will be better still if you can raise the bed or beds into which you may divide this central space, above the general level of the ground, so as to give them still more exposure, and at the same time a better drainage. In many cases this may easily be done when you are making a garden, by importing a quantity of broken bricks and similar rubbish, and with this forming a foundation for the soil. The expense is trifling, and the trouble will be amply repaid in the saving of labour and the better condition of your plants at a future time. In all cases remember to lay out your garden and place your beds so that the plants may be readily got at in all stages of their growth. And when you come to plant, do not fall into the common error of planting so thickly that the subjects choke up each other, and you have a difficulty in attending to one without injury to the rest. The air should be allowed to circulate freely around the stem, and the sun’s rays and the rain should be able to reach all the leaves of every single plant, if you wish to have a collec- tion of anything more than weak and sickly vegetation. SUCCESSION OF PLANTS. If you intend to devote your ground to the culture of vegetables, you will not need to be reminded that it is desirable to have a constant succession of plants in the ground, and that gardening will therefore require your attention and afford you amusement throughout the year. But if you think of growing flowers only, avoid, above all things, the modern practice of occupying the ground in the summer months alone by tender and showy plants, geraniums, calceolarias,and the like, and leaving it a barren and desolate space throughout the rest of the year. The smallest piece of ground is capable of affording you a new pleasure in every month from January to December in- clusive, as we shall show in detail, in the course of these papers, if you will plant such flowers as follov/ each other in reaching perfection at the successive seasons of the year. So much for the general principles which should be kept in view in setting out. We now come to the practical details of the subject, and shall treat in an early paper on the laying out of the small suburban flower garden. THE TOILETTE.—I. We propose, in a series of short articles, to give a concise account of the every day management of the Skin, the Hair, and the Teeth, when these are generally in a healthy state ; and, moreover, to indicate very briefly the nature and causes of the more common disorders which