202 HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS. Weak Ankles are common accompaniments of “ flat foot,” or may exist alone. The sufferer is found to “ tread over ” considerably in walking, and is often conscious that the ankles yield during walking, the foot having a tendency to turn on its side. The best remedy is well-made lace-up boots, with the sides made stiffer than usual, those with elastic sides giving no efficient support. In children where there is often enlargement of the ankle-bones, bathing with Tidman’s sea-salt and water, or sea-water, and the administration of cod-liver oil are very useful remedies. Bow Legs are common in “ricketty” children who have been put upon their feet too soon, and are, therefore, more common among the poorer classes than among those who have attendants to carry them when young. The earthy material of the bones of these children being deficient in quantity, their legs bend with the weight of the body, and if not attended to the deformity will be permanent. The great point is to improve the little patient’s health by sufficient and proper food, and particularly by supplying it with genuine and unadulterated milk and wheaten bread, both of which articles of diet contain the earthy salts necessary for the formation of bone. Fresh air and, if possible, the sea-side, are very advisable if they can be procured, and the medical treatment must be carefully carried out under the direction of a competent adviser. As regards the use of apparatus for the treatment of this and every other form of deformity, the parent should be guided by the advice of a surgeon, and not by that of a self-interested instrument-maker. Many slight cases of bow-legs do perfectly well without any apparatus at all, and in most cases a simple lath on the inside of the leg, with broad webbing straps and buckles, is as efficacious for the treatment, and better, because lighter, for the child, than complicated and expensive steel and leather supports. Knock Knees occur generally in youths who have some- what overgrown their strength, and particularly in those who have been in the habit of walking or running a good deal. The ligaments of the knee-joints become weakened and gradually yield, and the lad finds that his knees are apt to touch in walking, causing the trousers to wear out on the insides of the legs, and giving to the individual a very ungainly appearance, with more or less pain in the knees themselves. The patient’s health should be im- proved, and he should avoid walking ; but if able to obtain horse exercise may avail himself of it with advan- tage, as it will tend to bow the knees out, as is seen in an exaggerated for.m in grooms and jockeys. With the same object in view, he may sleep with a pillow between his knees, and with the ankles fastened together by a silk handkerchief. A simple alteration in the sole of the boot is very useful in slight cases of this kind. It consists in having the heels of the boots prolonged on the inner side along the “ waist ” of the boot, the efi"ect of which is to throw the foot slightly on one side, and thus counteract the in-bowing of the knees; the boots should be strong lace-up ones, so as to well support the ankles, which might otherwise yield. In severe cases of knock knee, it will be necessary for the patient to be confined to the sofa, and wear proper apparatus under the direction of a surgeon. Housemaid’s Knee is, as its name implies, an affection common among domestic servants who kneel to scrub floors, &c. The little bag, or “ bursa,” beneath the skin of the knee and in front of the knee-cap is apt to get inflamed and swollen from the pressure it sustains, and is then often very painful, and the part looks red and swollen. Hot fomentations and poulticing, with rest for a day or two, will generally effect a cure; but if not, and the part throbs, the advice of a surgeon should be at once obtained, as possibly an abscess may have formed. In some cases there is no pain or heat, but a swelling is formed in front of the knee (as seen in Fig. 28), which gives incon- venience in kneeling. This will often subside by avoiding the practice which has given rise to it, and by painting the skin over it daily with tincture of iodine ; but if it does not disappear it should be shown to a medical man. In all cases in which it may be a matter of necessity that work should be continued as usual, the sufferer should be very careful to provide herself with a soft pad of carpet, or matting, to kneel upon, to prevent, if possible, any in- crease of the inflammation. Hip Disease is only mentioned here because its onset is so insidious as often to be overlooked until the disease has made considerable progress; and as treatment, to be efficacious, must be early, it is important that parents should have their attention called to the first symptoms ol the disorder. The disease generally occurs in weakly children, and may date from a fall which gave rise to no special symptoms at the time. The child is noticed to have a slight limp, and complains very probably of pain in the knee and not in the hip itself, unless that part is touched. These symptoms are quite sufficient to justify recourse to the surgeon, whose directions should be strictly carried out for many weeks, or even months, if necessary to effect a cure. HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—IV. FORFEITS (continuedfrom p. sSp). Forfeits are in such general demand during the season when round and merry games are in vogue, that we add a few more to the list given in a previous paper. Before doing so, however, we may be allowed to remind our readers that the spirit in which forfeit games should be conducted is to extract as much harmless fun from them as possible, avoiding everything rough and unseemly, or in which a mind exceptionally sensitive can find a cause of offence. With those which are simply boisterous in character, or have any element calculated to cause a feeling of annoyance or pain, we have nothing to do. But at the same time, all who enter on games of this kind should be prepared to give as well as to receive amuse- ment. We will continue first our list of forfeits suited to a gentleman. 1. To go round the Room Blindfolded, and kiss all the Ladies.—Th& company, of course, are seated, but as soon as the gentleman is blindfolded they change positions, with as little commotion as possible. He consequently finds, in his progress, that he as often attempts to kiss one of his own as one of the opposite sex; or a lady may reverse the position of her chair, so that the gentleman kisses the back of her head. 2. To choose One of Three Signs.—To do this, he is to stand with his face to the wall, while any lady present makes three signs behind him—of a kiss, of a pinch, and of a box on the ear. He is then asked whether he chooses the first, the second, or the third, not knowing the order in which they have been made, and receives the corre- sponding action. 3. To imitate any Anhnal that may be named.—If the company call upon him to imitate a goat, a donkey, &c., he must do it; but if the forfeit happens to fall upon any one who, from age or other reasons, may be excused from such performance, “a man” is named as the animal, and a bow will suffice. 4. To kiss a Lady through the Back of a Chair.—He must wait, with his visage inserted in the chair-back, until some lady comes to his rescue ; but if the chair be of a fancy pattern, she may dodge hirn through the framework before giving him his release. 5. To blow the Candle out.—He is blindfolded, and the candle held near his face, until he happens to give a puff in the right direction. 6. To perform the Clown’s Pantomime.—This consists