227 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. the hoop. As the bronchitis subsides the hoop returns. If the child is of a healthy constitution, the probability is, that with proper treatment the bronchitis will terminate favourably ; but it is an important complication, requiring good medical judgment. Inflammation of the lungs itself may occur, and may be known by similar symptoms to those of bronchitis, and especially a very hot skin. Another complication of hooping-cough is convulsions. They may come on suddenly, or be preceded by drowsi- ness. They are more apt to happen in teething children, or in children of a certain delicate constitution, charac- terised by a large head, large stomach, small limbs, late teething, late walking, &c. Frequent vomiting, occurring independently of fits of coughing, in connection with any tendency to convulsions, is a serious symptom. Another effect of hooping-cough sometimes causes anxiety—a great loss of flesh and flabbiness of the child. This occurs often cpiite independently of serious disease, probably from weakness and exhaustion, consequent on the harassing nature of the disease. If this loss of flesh concurs with a feverish temperature of the body, it is more serious than when the body is cool. Treatment.—There are few diseases for which more various remedies have been prescribed than hooping- cough, from which we may learn that it is a difficult disease to treat, or make any very favourable impression on. Only in very simple cases would it be right to trust to domestic treatment—that is to say, in cases where the fits of coughing are not very severe ; where the patient is little thinned by the disease, and breathes well in the intervals of the fits. In these cases a few simple remedies may be tried. Amongst these a very safe remedy is Roche’s embrocation. The following is the recipe for compounding this famous, though somewhat dear, liniment :— Olive oil ... I part. Oil of cloves ... i part. Oil of amber i part. Among internal remedies that may be tried are alum. Three or four grains may be given to a child a year and a half or two years old every four or six hours in water. It is most likely to be useful in cases in which there is a great accumulation of phlegm, and in which the skin is cool. Another valuable remedy is dilute nitric acid, in the following form :— Dilute nitric acid... Spirits of nitre Simple syrup Water 1 drachm. 2 drachms. \ ounce. 6 ounces. A child five years old may take a table-spoonful every four or six hours in as much water, according to the frequency of the cough. Younger children can take one, two, or three teaspoonfuls every four or six hours. During the actual fit of coughing let air be admitted freely to the child, whose mouth should be kept clean. Everything tight about the dress should be removed. For the emaciation which is apt to occur in hooping-cough a little cod-liver oil is a good remedy. A teaspoonful night and morning to begin with, increasing the dose gradually. Supposing all other remedies to fail, a change of air is a most powerful one, and often cures the disease. In all cases, as recovery begins, it is a valuable means of restoring the child to complete health. In moving about with hooping-cough, or any other infectious disease, it is not only in accordance with the requirements of the law, but with those of common sense and consideration, that all possible precautions be taken not to carry the disease to other persons. The diet of a child suffering from hooping-cough should be simple, unstimulating, and nourishing; milk, especially, is good. If symptoms of inflammation of the chest set in, the case is, of course, past domestic treatment, and therefore need not be further discussed. MUMPS. Here we have another disease that may seem very different from the eruptive fevers we have discussed, and yet has many points of resemblance. It is often epidemic; it is very infectious ; it seldom attacks persons more than once in a lifetime ; it is seldom propagated except by infection-—that is to say, by communication with some other child or person who has had the disease. It is like the fevers in another respect—that it is attended for a time with smart feverishness. The disease consists essentially in a kind of inflamma- tion, rather an enlargement, of the large gland, called the parotid, which lies between the jaw and the ear; the other glands under the jaw and under the tongue are likewise sometimes affected. Every swelling of these glands must not be called mumps, but the name must be restricted to that large and painful swelling which occurs in the above situation, and which affects a great number of persons at one time—in other words, is contagious. The swelling is tender and painful, arid has a bruised feeling, and renders the jaws stiff; the tongue is white, and the patient gene- rally feverish and unwell. As the saliva which moistens the mouth and food proceeds mainly from the gland affected, the secretion of it is often much lessened, causing the mouth to be dry, which adds farther to the difficulty in chewing occasioned by the stiffness of the jaws. As a general rule, the older the patient the more painful is the mumps. The disease is most common in children over five years. It is not very serious in itself, for it has a strong natural tendency to get well in seven or eight days, leaving the patient somewhat pale. But there is a peculiarity about the disease that sometimes adds to the danger of it, and greatly to the alarm or pain that it occasions. The brunt of the disease may be more or less suddenly transferred from the parotid gland to other parts, especially to the breasts in girls or to the testicles in boys. This change is shown by severe pain and swell- ing in those parts, and a rapid subsidence of the swelling between the jaw and the ear. Sometimes the transference of the disease is to the head, which then gives rise to nervous symptoms, drowsiness, or delirium. Occasion- ally the swelling at the angle of the jaw has not made much impression on the patient or his friends, and may quickly disappear, so that the swellings in other parts, or the nervous symptoms, are the first things noticed, and may occasion a greater alarm than if they occurred in clear connection with mumps. Still, these cases are very exceptional, and mumps generally is not a dangerous or serious disease, though a painful one. Treatment.—Though the disease tends to subside in a few days, like most other diseases, it is the better for a little judicious medical treatment. If the case is acute and severe, a medical man should be sent for. In cases which are simpler, or advice is difficult to be got, the following measures will tend to help the patient, and diminish the pain. Poppy fomentations should be used frequently to the swellings—three or four times a day; after using these, a warm piece of flannel should be applied to the part. The following mixture may be given to children at or about five years old:— Chlorate of potash ... ... ... i drachm. Tincture of perchloride of iron 24 to 36 minims. Simple syrup -j- ounce. Water ... ... ... ... ... bounces. Mix thoroughly, and take one tablespoonful every four or six hours. The diet of the patient should be simple, and such as can easily be swallowed, as milk, broths, beef tea, &c., and the like.