CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. GARDENING.—IV. THE WINDOW GARDEN {continuedfrom f. 45). The practical result of good gardening is to keep up a show of blossom or ornamental foliage all through the year, to effect which it is necessary to know the seasons when the various plants arrive at perfection. Supposing, therefore, we begin our year in winter, though few flowers are blooming out of doors, yet our window garden may be gay enough, as may be seen from the following list of flowers which bloom at that season, all of which are available for our pur- pose :—Pompon chrysanthemum, tree carnation, Chinese primrose, polyanthus, single garden anemone, mignonette, musk, Neapolitan and Russian violet, wallflower, scarlet geranium, myrtle, camellia, China rose, heaths, daphne. Besides these there are many more, but as they require more attention and greater space for growth than most of our readers will be able to spare, we shall leave their names until a future number, and say a few words upon the culture of each of those given in our present list. Pompon Chrysanthemums are especially suit- able for winter window decoration, both on account of their size and variety of colour. Though naturally dwarf plants, they will admit of still further dwarfing, by having the points of the shoots “ laid” at the end of August. In potting you will require rich light soil; give plenty of water afterwards, and when they have done flowering remove them into a yard or spare window, and protect them from sharp frosts. You can increase your stock by dividing the roots or suckers, in April or May. Tree Carnation.—Make cuttings in spring, re-pot in May, again in September; pinch off the points of the early shoots when you first re-pot, so as to retard the flower-buds. Train upon a wooden frame or up the sides of the window. Chinese Primrose.—Sow in April or May under a square of glass; pot and re-pot twice, as the plants increase in size. Use sandy, fibrous, rich earth, and see that you have free drainage. When past flowering treat as chrysanthemums, and re-pot for the second season. Polyanthus takes a mode- rately large pot, rich loamy soil, and should be watered with liquid manure. Single Garden Anemojte.— The roots of these and their bulbous brethren are the bet- ter for being taken out of the earth when flowering is over, and stored for the summer. This, however, must not be done until the foliage withers, which shows that Nature is resting. Good plants maybe had by putting in the roots early in winter, and keeping the pots in a dark cool place until their leaves appear. Mignonette.—To bloom through the winter, select from the box or bed, and re-pot a strong woody plant, train it up a frame of sticks, and water sparingly. Musk—grown either from seed, cuttings, or division of the roots. Keep very moist while growing, and dry while the plant is sleeping. Violets, Neapolitati a7id Russiati.—Re-pot in May, ex- pose to the air as much as possible, either in a border, yard, _ or window-box. U se well-manured, rich earth, watering freely. When the runners appear, nip them back, so as to concentrate the strength in the main root. In September re-pot into light loamy good soil, and place in 6—N.s. Fig. your window. Give all the air jmu can, and wash the leaves frequently. Wallflowers may be made to bloom in winter by cut- ting back in spring or summer, and from their perfume are always a favourite adjunct of the window garden. Sca7'let Geraniums.—The sweet-scented and oak-leafed are the best for winter growing, and will go on flowering up to February'. Of their treatment we shall have occa- sion to speak under the head of pelargoniums. Myrtle. — No foliage is prettier and fresher. The plant will last for years, is easily propa- gated by cuttings, and although apt to grow too large for its share in a window case, can be kept within bounds by pruning. Sandy loam, mi.xed with heath and a little silver sand, is the best soil in which to grow myrtles. Re-pot once a year ; wash the foliage now and then, as soot smuts blister the delicate green leaves. Camellias.—Choose the double, which are the best flowering sort, and treat in the same way as the myrtle. A very simple way of striking camellia cuttings is by merely putting a spray (first nipping olT the flower-bud) in a small medi- 1. cine bottle half full of water ; let the stalk just enter the water. Hang up the bottle in a light warm place, and in a short time you will have a well- rooted young plant to pot. China Roses.—Plant in midsummer, or even later ; use rich loamy soil, well drained. Strike at any time from cuttings. Heaths—being rather capricious in their growth, must be planted in heathy soil well mixed with silver sand and leaf mould, thoroughly drained, and kept free from wet. The pot must be rather small in proportion to the size of the plant. Give plenty of air, and protect carefully against hard frosts. Daphne—although not very ornamental, and apt to straggle in its growth, will nevertheless always find a place where sweet perfume is acceptable. Heath soil and loam is the most suitable earth. Be careful to keep off frost, or even a sudden chill, and remove from the window at night. Indeed, we may here observe that this rule should apply to all winter flowers. The temperature falling so suddenly inside the room by the dying out of the fire, renders the plants extremely sensitive to the change in the outside atmosphere. If such a misfortune as a frost-bite occurs, remove the plant to a dark place, and let it recover itself; light will blister and 2. decay the surface affected by the frost. These flowers will have shed their beauty in January, when you should have your bulbs ready to fill their place. Of these the following will flower in January and February ;—Hyacinths, narcissus, jonquils, tulips, cro- cuses, snowdrops, and scillas. The pretty effect a selec- tion of these will produce when well arranged, is shown in our illustration. Fig. 2. The treatment of these several sorts is much alike. Plant in soil mixed with leaf mould and well-rotted manure, early in autumn, say September. Keep in the dark until well rooted, which process is encouraged by having a saucer supplied with water below the pot. When the roots are thoroughly grown, which will generally take place in eight weeks, remove the pots to the light, and the flower and foliage stems will soon show. Great