140 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. smooth and well mixed together, pour it over your fried fowl, and serve. Boiled Fowl.—Truss it as before ; put inside it, with the liver, heart, and gizzard, a slice of white bacon half an inch thick ; tie round it, outside, a broad slice of bacon a quarter of an inch thick. Take a bullock’s bladder, slit open the orifice wide enough to admit the fowl. After rinsing out the bladder with hot water two or three times, put the fowl in it, and tie it up in such a way that no water can get in. After patient and careful boiling, take it out of its envelope, lay it on the dish surrounded by its gravy and sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of salt. You may serve it accompanied by Parsley Sauce.—Chop a little parsley very fine. Into a saucepan containing a breakfast-cupful of cold water, put a lump of butter as big as a large walnut, into which you have rubbed a dessert-spoonful of flour. Keep stirring one way all the while these are melting, and until it boils. Then throw in the chopped parsley. Let it boil one minute, still stirring ; then pour it into your sauceboat. If any of the fowl is left, the best way will be to cut it up into joints, arrange them neatly in the dish with the gravy (which will be jelly when cold), and pour the rest of the parsley sauce over them. They will thus be pre- sentable at another meal. A fowl thus secured from loss or injury may be steamed with good results ; but this is a very tedious operation. Fowl Stewed with Rice.—When your fowl is drawn, singed, and trussed (tied with string), with the legs cut off at the drumstick joint, and the heart, liver, and gizzard either fastened to the wings, English fashion, or put inside it, as they do abroad, put it into a saucepan not larger than will hold it conveniently, and allow it to be well covered with cold water. Set it on the fire ; as soon as no more scum rises, cover it down close with the lid, and set it where it will stew gently until quite tender, which you will easily ascertain upon inspection. You may reckon upon its taking three or four hours, perhaps longer, to do. At the same time that you set your fowl to cook, put half or three-quarters of a pound of rice to steep in cold soft water. When the fowl is on the point of turning tender, chop one or two onions small, and put them to the fowl with the steeped rice, a little salt, and a small quantity of pepper and grated nutmeg. Let them boil with frequent stirring, some twenty minutes. If the rice is a little mashy, never mind ; it will combine all the better with the fat and gravy from the fowl. Lay the fowl in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the rice round and under it. Ends of the Ribs, or Breast of Beef, Stewed with Vege- tables.—When the ends of the ribs, or the breast, from a well-fed beast are to be had of a respectable butcher at a fairly reduced price, they are well worth purchasing, to be cooked as follows :—For convenience, divide the bit into two or three pieces ; salt them two or three days, according to the weather. Rinse them in cold water, to clear them from the salt sticking to them, and set them on the fire in cold water (not quite so much as if for soup) in a small boiler. After skimming, season with two or three cloves and peppercorns. Let the meat boil an hour; then put in as many carrots, whole onions, turnips, potatoes, and hearts of cabbage, as will be fairly covered by the broth ; then let it simmer gently until the vegetables are cooked. On serving, put the beef in the middle of a large dish, and lay the vegetables round it, pouring some of the broth over all. Or, if you want to season more highly, you may brown butter, onions, and flour, in a frying-pan, season with pepper, salt, and catchup, stir all smooth, and pour that over your beef and vegetables. THE CHEAPER SHELL-FISH. The Common Limpet (Patella).—The limpet is some- times eaten raw, though in this state it is said to be poisonous to some people, and it is certainly best cooked. Boiled in salt and water, it makes a coarse but not unwholesome food. Periwinkles.—Wash them in several waters, to get rid of mud and sand. Leave them quite half an hour in another water to cleanse ; shake them up to make them draw into their shells ; put them into a saucepan and pour over them boiling sea-water that has stood to settle ; boil galloping twenty minutes, and serve accompanied by brown bread and butter. Whelks (Buccinum undatum).—Put your whelks (alive, if possible) for a few hours into fresh or brackish water to cleanse. Boil them in salt and water, the smaller ones, to be eaten as periwinkles, three-quarters of an hour ; the larger ones, with shells as big as hens’ eggs, an hour and a quarter. They take a great deal of cooking, being hard and leathery in substance. As large whelks are hardly eatable, even after this preliminary boiling, take them out of their shells, dip them in flour or bread crumbs, and fry them in plenty of very hot fat. On serv- ing, pepper and vinegar may be sprinkled over them. Soyer, in his “ Modern Housewife,” says, “ Whelks have become plentiful in London, and are exceedingly whole- some fish. They are eaten, also, like the oyster.” By which he probably means made into soup like clams, or cooked in the same way as oysters are cooked. Mussels and Rice (an Algerian Recipe).—Wash your mussels well; set them on the fire in a saucepan without any water, but with a close-fitting lid. Shake them up from time to time, so as to bring them all in turn to the bottom. They will gradually open and give out their liquor, in which, and in the steam from it, they will cook. When they are all well opened and detach easily from the shell, turn them out into a large-holed cullender placed over a vessel to catch the liquor, which strain and set aside to settle. Take the mussels out of their shells, rejecting the weed attached to their inside, and any little parasitical crabs within them, and put them aside. Boil rice as if for a curry, so as to be as dry as possible when done. To this put a good lump of butter and a few table-spoonfuls of the mussel liquor ; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put in the mussels, heat up all together, mixing them without breaking them. Or, you may heap the warmed-up mussels in the middle of your dish, surrounding them with the seasoned rice, as some cooks serve a curry. Hustled Mussels, Plain.—Cook the mussels as before. When done, simply turn them out into a large open dish, and serve them in their shells as they are. Pickled Mussels.—Cook and pick them clean as above. Put them into a preserve jar, seasoning as you proceed with salt, ground pepper, whole pepper, and cloves. When the jar is nearly full, pour vinegar over them till they are quite covered. If the vinegar is very strong, dilute it with a little of the liquor that came from the mussels. They are ready for use the day after pickling, and will keep good for some little time, if closely covered. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—IX. WINDOWS. The glazed contrivances in houses which we call windows —having for their duty not only the admission of light to the inmates, but also protection against weather, and the optional admission of air—are too well known to need any description except just to distinguish between the varieties. For instance, the one we illustrate in Fig. 56 is known as a suspended sash window. The sashes which open outwards or inwards, after the same manner as doors, are called casements, and are variously contrived to suit various requirements. It is not, therefore, our intention to even enumerate these differences, but to