75 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. whose business was acquired at an excessive cost, and from reckless disregard of the well-known fundamental principles of life assurance, which are based upon un- changeable and mathematical laws, that cannot be ignored with impunity. The public were very much indebted, in this matter, to the intelligence of the writers in the daily papers, by whom this great question, one of the gravest importance to a large portion of the community, was very generally taken up. Of their widely-expressed opinions on this point, these remarks are an echo. The writer of this article long before pointed out the mischief that must arise, if the unsatisfactory methods of business pursued by a particular class of life assurance companies were persevered in. The result proved that his view was correct. The absolute necessity of life assurance in the case of persons whose incomes are dependent upon their lives—and this is so with the far greater portion of the population of this country—-we assume to be admitted by everyone. There can be no doubt of the fact that no other method exists by which a provision can be so well made for a dependent family, as by a policy of life assurance, for the moment the contract is executed, no matter whether death take place the next day or twenty years after, a capital sum is provided, which can be invested for the benefit of the family of the assured, or applied in any way for their advantage, according to the circumstances and require- ments of the case. No investment, in either a savings bank or a friendly society, will answer the same purpose—the essential peculiarity of a life policy being that the amount contracted for is paid at death, whenever that event shall happen, and, from the uncertainty of life, it does occur, over and over again, that claims become payable and are honour- ably met, very shortly after the policy is effected. So that a young man with a fixed income derived from a profession or other source, need not be deterred from marriage on account of it being impossible for him to make a due pro- vision for his wife and family—indeed, we may safely say that by means of life assurance, many marriages take place which otherwise prudence must have pre- vented altogether. The first thing to be done by a person who has made up his mind to effect an assurance on his life, is to fix upon an office. There are two descriptions of companies, viz., proprietary and mutual, the former being joint-stock or trading companies, and the latter private partnerships on a large scale—all the profits of the business belonging strictly to themselves, while, in the proprietary companies, only a certain proportion of the profits are divided in the shape of bonuses among the policy-holders, the remainder belonging to the shareholders. There are numerous good companies of both classes to be found. We feel a difficulty in pointing out how a selection should be made, and can only suggest that the applicant should make choice of an office which, above all things, regularly publishes full and intelligible accounts, showing clearly the amount of the liability and the sum in hand to meet it, and particularly how that sum is invested. Probably, one of the best tests will be the fact that the state- ments of the office fixed upon can be readily understood by the intending applicant; for the accounts of many companies are so mystified as to be unintelligible to the general public. The prospectus of the company should next be thoroughly studied. The date of establishment, though no guarantee in itself, still affords evidence of whether the company has stood the test of time. The names of the directors should be scrutinised, to see if they are men of business and of good standing in the commercial world. The rates of premium should then be consulted. These vary according as the Northampton, Carlisle, or other tables are adopted as a basis. The Northampton table gives an unfavourable view of life at the younger ages —say, up to forty-five—and the premiums deduced from it are consequently higher than those that are based on the Carlisle mortality; while, on the other hand, the N orthampton rates are decidedly favourable at ages above forty-five—the exact reverse being the case with the Carlisle table. The applicant would accordingly do well to select his office according to his age, provided always that the office charging the higher rate of premium does not offer, which it very possibly may, some compensating adv^an- tage; for it must be borne in mind that the rate of premium is not the only point to be considered in the choice of an office—the amount of bonus addition likely to be allotted to the policy, and the character of the company for liberal conduct and honourable dealing being important elements to be taken into account. The bonus system will be explained hereafter. The annual premium per ;^ioo for a life of thirty varies in the different companies from is. 8d. to £;z 19s. 3d.; at sixty, from ^6 is. qd. to £"] 15s. The rates without participation in profits are of course less. Life premiums are usually paid annually in advance. Some companies receive half-yearly or even quarterly payments. Assurances may also be effected by the payment of a fixed number of premiums, which are of course much higher than those quoted. Some companies grant endow- ment assurances, by which the sum assured becomes payable at death, or on the life assured attaining a certain age, and indeed, generally, contracts can be entered into with the large companies for the issue of policies to meet almost every conceivable requirement. The applicant, if at all likely to go abroad, should ascertain the regulations of the company with which he is in treaty as to foreign residence, for which an extra premium is charged, according to the healthiness or otherwise of the locality. The conditions in this respect of some companies are much more liberal than those of others. It is now very usual to allow free residence in any part of the world distant more than 33° north or south of the equator, as well as in certain other healthy places within the excluded limits. Policies become void if the person assured die by his own hand, by duelling, or by the hands of justice, or if the premium be not paid annually within the thirty days of grace which are allowed from the date of the same becoming due. Tables showing the amount of bonuses declared will be found in the prospectuses of most of the offices, and though the past bonuses afford no just criterion of what the future results may be, still they are the best guides the public can have as to the prospects of bonus additions to their policies. It often happens that the assured, from unforeseen circumstances, are unable to continue their annual payments. When this is the case, a return of some portion of the premium paid is made, such return being called the surrender value of the policy. And here it may be desirable to point out that in such cases a return of only a small proportion of the premium paid (usually about a third, without interest) can be looked for, for though in the individual case no claim for payment of the sum assured has been made upon the company, still other policies effected at the same period having become claims, the excess of premium paid on the policy to be surrendered must be retained by the company to meet the losses occasioned by premature deaths. Loans, also, for amounts varying with the value of the policies, are advanced upon their security, usually at five per cent, interest. We propose to continue our remarks on life assurance in a future number.