CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 255 helped as portions with a spoon. At the bottom of a stewpan (or better, of an iron round-bottomed pan) put a good lump of butter, or roast-meat dripping, on it slice one or two large onions, brown them, then put in your uncooked meat, if any, and brown it. Dust in a dessert- spoonful of flour, brown it also with the meat and onions, stirring all the while. Then pour in gradually, continually stirring, as much water or broth as will nearly cover the whole. Have ready, freshening in cold water, a few peeled potatoes, whole if very small, or otherwise halved, quartered, or sliced ; half-a-dozen or more middle-sized onions ; a turnip sliced ; a sliced carrot ; a small stick of celery ; a bay-leaf and a bunch of sweet herbs. In fact, you may use almost any vegetables, only avoiding those which discolour or give a bad flavour to the water in which they are boiled. When green vegetables are scarce, you may help them out with dry, as haricots steeped over- night and perhaps ready cooked. Put all these into the. preparatory stew in thefait-toiit, and stir from time to time, to prevent burning, and to bring them all successively in ‘ contact with the heat. When done, season sparingly with salt, but rather liberally with pepper, to give a decided relish. Then put in your cold meat, stirring till it is equally distributed amongst the vegetables. Take the fait-tout off the fire, as it must not boil any more. Stir now and then, to help the meat to get impregnated with the sauce. Let it stand simmering at the side of the stove until the liquor is so reduced by evaporation, that the dish in which the ratatouille is to be served will con- tain it all, vegetables, meat, and gravy. You may then dish it up. ' Ratatouille Ctirry.—Some persons do not like curry; those who do, are not agreed as to its degree of heat. T0 •please all tastes, before reducing the gravy of your rata- touille, take out a teacupful and stir into it gradually a dessert-spoon or more, of curry powder. You can keep this warm in a sauce-boat plunged in hot water. At the time of serving your ratatouille, send up with it this curry sauce, and a vegetable-dish containing boiled rice. Those who like curry, can make one on their plate with the meat and vegetables from the stew Chicken Broth.—This is best made from an old cock or hen, but quickest from a young one. In either case let the fowl be fresh ; it may be used immediately after killing. Empty and singe it. Save the heart and liver, clean the gizzard, cut off the neck close to the body, and the legs at the knee-joints; cut the neck into three pieces, split the head, cut off the beak, take out the eyes. If you do not mind the trouble, cut off the claws, and scald the feet and legs to remove the outer scaly skin. If you mean to throw away the fowl afterwards (which no French cook would do), you may cut it up into joints; if not, truss the wings, and tie it into a presentable shape with string previously rinsed in warm water. Set on the fowl and its appen- dages, in a boiler or large saucepan, with plenty of cold soft water without salt. As it comes to a boil, skim carefully. Afterwards let your fowl boil or simmer over a gentle fire for six hours if the bird was old ; for a less time if younger. Take out the liver after half an hour’s boiling. Steep a coffee-cupful of rice in cold soft water, set it on the fire in cold water ; as soon as it begins to boil, strain off the water, and throw the rice into the broth a good hour before the broth is done. Instead of rice, a little pearl barley or oatmeal groats maybe used. Besides rendering the broth more nutritious, they will absorb or mechanically combine with a portion of the chicken fat, thus making it smoother, less oily, and consequently lighter of digestion. When the fowl is tender, without being boiled to rags, take it out whole ; if not, let it boil to rags. Take the broth off the fire, let it stand an hour to settle, then skim off the surface fat and set it aside with a small quantity of the broth. Pour it off, leaving only the sediment at the bottom ; broths for invalids are not the better for being clear. It is then ready either for immediate use in the shape of broth, or to serve as the basis of a variety of soups. Season with salt (and pepper, if wished) at the time of serving. Catchup may be added at the rate of a teaspoonful to each half-pint of broth. Boiled Fowl and Rice.—When your fowl is done tender, take it out. Fasten the liver and heart to one wing, the gizzard to the other. Have steeped a good quantity of rice. Boil it in water, beginning cold. When all but cooked, or in about a quarter of an hour, pour off the water, let the saucepan stand at the side of the stove with its lid raised to dry the rice, shaking it occasionally. Then add to it a portion of the broth and its surface fat which you had set aside, together with a good lump of butter. Stew the rice in this till it is completely done, moistening with broth if it become too thick. Season with salt, a little pepper, and a very little grated nutmeg, A boiled white onion mashed to a pulp may also be stirred up with it. When thoroughly hot and the rice quite tender, lay it on a dish under and around your fowl, saving a little to spread over its upper surface to mask any breakage in the skin or flesh. N.B.—Butter or some other form of fat should always enter liberally in the sauces or accompaniments for meats which have been deprived of it, as well as of other parts of their constituents, by boiling, for the case is not the same with stewing. This is important, not merely as a question of taste, but as an essential of sound nourishm.ent. A FEW FACTS ABOUT WATER. The temperature at which water is drunk greatly influences the health. Below 45° it is an astringent, highly tonic if pure ; at 60° it is a diluent for dissolving crudities of food and other obstructions in the stomach : this temperature will give relief to those suffering from indigestion. Above 60° water relaxes the system, but drunk from 70° to 80°, the first thing in the morning, it is an excellent antibilious medicine. The following registration by Fahrenheit’s thermometer is adopted, under medical advice, for bathers :—At 70° water is cold to the skin of the hand. A bath of 80° would be termed a cold bath. From 86'’ to 90" a bath is tepid ; loo'* is a warm bath ; a vapour bath is from loo'^ to 130°. The following tests for water are useful if applied in the proportion of a few drops of each to one or two ounces of water:— A solution of nitrate of barytes will cause a turbid appearance if any alkaline carbonates and sulphates exist in the water. A solution of acetate of lead will do the same. A solution of oxalate of ammonia precipitates lime, if there be any. A solution of carbonate of ammonia and, directly afterwards, a solution of phosphate of soda will produce milkiness if magnesia be present in the water. Free carbonic acid is detected by a very slight milki- ness being produced by adding an equal portion of lime water with the water tested. A solution of soap in alcohol detects lime, and shows, by the greater or lesser flakiness of the soap, the degree of hardness of the water experimented upon. Hardness in water, which is easily recognised by the difficulty experienced in washing, is due to the presence of salts of lime. Saline waters contain salts of lime, muriate of soda and magnesia, sulphate of magnesia, carbonate of soda, and other alkaline earths. Magnesian waters are those possessing the taste and properties of magnesia. Water is called chalybeate when carbonate of iron abounds, and hepatic, or sulphurous, tvhen impregnated with sul- phuretted hydrogen.