39 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. this income to allow more than £io for insurance and saving, ^lo for education, and ^lo for unforeseen con- tingencies. When the income is only ;^ioo or ^^150 a year, the difficulty is, of course, increased ; and there is indeed a wide scope for the display of skilful manage- ment to enable the parents to save even a couple of pounds a year. As far as education goes, it must be remembered that the children can receive a very good education for a small weekly payment at the Board Schools. Saving and insurance will, however, seem to many almost impossible. We acknowledge the difficulty with all readiness and sympathy, and humbly confess with Portia, that we find it much easier to teach twenty what is good to be done than be one of the twenty to follow our own teaching. Nevertheless, the principle is a sound one. However small the income may be, a proportion of it ought to be saved ; and the father and mother who, after struggling bravely to exercise economy, at the end of each week take, it may be, only is. to the Post Office Savings’ Bank, are giving a hostage to fortune, and raising a barrier against pecu- niary trouble. Say that there is a hundred a year, now ; is it sure to be there to-morrow ? and ought there to be no provision made for its probable temporary discon- tinuance ? If it proved that in the end no such difficulty arose, the only result of the saving would be that those who made it were a little richer for the effort they had made. Expenditure for an Income of £100 a year. Rooms (about 7s. 6d. per week) ... £^o 0 0 Housekeeping 52 0 0 Clothing IS 0 0 Education Insurance, medical attendance, and 3 0 0 savings 5 0 0 Incidentals ... 5 0 0 £^00 0 0 In the tables that have been drawn out, a portion of the income has been set aside to be used for incidental expenses. By incidental expenses are understood all those general expenses which cannot be included under any other item—such as repairs, travelling expenses, per- sonal expenses, amusements, visiting, and unforeseen contingencies. Every one who has earnestly endeavoured to live within a moderate income, and to portion out that income fairly, will bear witness that, however carefully the estimate of household expenses may be drawn up, there is sure to be something over and above the items provided for. A calculation is under-estimated, or an unexpected occurrence involves unforeseen expense; so that again and again it has happened that people who were honestly trying to save have found such saving impossible, because there has been no margin left for contingencies. We must remember it is not safe to draw upon to-morrow’s income to make to-day’s deficiencies straight. That plan will only lead to greatly increased difficulty. But if unex- pected occurrences are regularly provided for, the amount which can be safely used every week need not be inter- fered with. In recommending the system of life insurance so strongly to our readers, we cannot overlook the fact that of late years there has been some tendency to view associations of this nature with suspicion, owing to a series of dis- closures which have revealed the unsoundness and in- security of the working of some of them. But it must be clearly understood that these are only a few individual cases. The principle of life insurance is sound enough, and the majority of insurance offices fully deserve the confidence they inspire. One word must be added by way of caution. Although a good deal of stress has been laid upon the desirability of saving and of providing for the future, it must not be forgotten that there is a danger of a false estimate being taken of the comparative value of things. Even money saved will be foolishly saved if it be taken from that which ought to be spent in providing for neces- sary wants. Health depends so much upon every mem- ber of the family having plenty of good wholesome food and sufficient clothing, that these important items must not be neglected. The fancied gain will prove a loss if, in order to effect it, the children are allowed to want food which is required to build up their constitutions, or clothing to keep them warm and dry. The food may be plain, the clothing mended, and altered, and out of date. These are trifling considerations, but if either are in- sufficient for health, consumption and weakness in after years may be the result of the well-meant effort to save now. The calculations will show how very little money can be honestly spent in extravagance of any kind, whether it be in the way of clothes, amusements, visiting, or enter- tainments; and what perpetual watchfulness is required to guard against waste of the most trivial nature in the case of all incomes below £(300 a year. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—I. LEATHER WORK. Leather work, or the art of modelling leather in imi- tation of carved wood, is an artistic occupation which has been revived of late, but has not yet reached either in beauty or utility the high standard it may be expected to attain. Wherever lightness, elegance, and durability in ornamentation are required, leather work, either plain or gilt, may be called into requisition. Cornices and border- ings for panels, groups for the latter, picture-frames, brackets, card-baskets, and many of the thousand and one appliances of modern luxury can receive embellish- ments at the hand of a tasteful designer and worker in leather work, which may elevate them to the rank of art- furniture. Leather work is of very ancient date. In the Egyptian Room of the British Museum there are specimens of em- bossed leather supposed to have been manufactured 900 B.C., and over the door of the same room there is a cross from the vestment of a Coptic priest, attributed to the year of our Lord 640. In the early part of the 17th century leather work was introduced into England in the form of tapestry or hangings. In Flanders especially, this tapestry was carried to great perfection. Its superiority over carved and moulded work consists in its adaptability to ornamentation, where lightness and elegance, with economy of cost, are desir- able. It improves by age, does not break, nor chip, and is not readily affected by heat or damp. It can be gilt, silvered, or stained to any colour to imitate old carvings in oak, ebony, &c., and admits of being easily cleaned. The materials and instriunents required consist of basil and skiver leathers, liquid glue, copper wire of various sizes, some very small headless tacks, a sharp pen- knife, a fine brad-awl, cutting pliers, and a veiner (Fig. i); moulds for grapes, brushes, and one or two bottles of size and varnishes; all of which can be purchased at any fancy repositories. Basil leather is sheep-skin tanned brown, and is used for the leaves and petals of the flowers. Skiver leather consists of shavings from the currier’s block, and is used for stalks, tendrils, &c. Those who wish to be- come proficients in the art of making leather ornaments should work from nature in all its varied forms, taking specimens from the fields, hedges, and gardens. When these are not procurable, the bought patterns maybe used. To make leaves, &c., soak the leather in water, dry well