300 THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY. This very excellent system of air and gas burners has been patented, and various improvements from time to time added, which have carried it to the utmost perfection, adapting it to all the requirements for warming and cook- ing purposes, from a small burner to keep a kettle boiling, neat enough to stand upon a drawing-room table, up to a complete range suitable for the most extensive kitchen. The objections urged against an ordinary gas cooking- stove—viz., the tendency to make meat cooked with it acquire a decided flavour of gas, and also their manifest ex- travagance—are no mere myths ; but these defects have been to a great extent overcome during late years. The before-mentioned burners are also fitted to patent asbestos fires, which, for the purposes they are intended to serve, are most decidedly a success. An ordinary grate is fitted with lumps of clay and asbestos (a practically incombustible material), and a series of burners ranged under the bottom grating, so that four or five streams of gas and air are allowed to flow up among the asbestos, which becomes red-hot in a few minutes after the fire is lighted, and the carbon of the gas being wholly oxidised by the admix- ture of the air, no soot is formed, as would be the case were an unmixed jet of gas poured through. The comfort of a bright and clear fire which re- quires no attention whatever, but which is capable of the most delicate regulation, is too obvious to require anything but the mere mention. These stoves will be found especially useful for bedrooms, for invalids and others, where the constant atten- tion required by coal fires seriously prejudices the benefit to be derived from their warmth. By having a pipe to supply the gas jet so con- trived as to be controllable by a tap within reach, a patient, without the necessity of getting out of bed, can regulate the fire to the greatest nicety, or, if left alone, it remains in exactly the same state for any length of time. We can testify from positive personal experience, that these fires are as cheerful and comfortable as coal fires, and the heat evolved is certainly not less than would come from a bright clear coke fire, which, in fact, they so closely resemble as to be undistinguishable by a casual observer. Of course we do not say that the use of gas for this purpose is more economical than the use of coal, but the advantages gained are, in our opinion, fully equal to any possible apparent difference in cost; we say apparent, because the facility of almost instantly producing or putting-out a gas-jet must be set against the fact that a coal fire takes a con- siderable time to become of any use, and must be allowed to die out of its own accord, at a large waste of material. We should strongly advise any person requiring such a fire to visit some establishment where one may be seen in action, when ocular demonstration will supersede the necessity of further description on our part. A small air and gas-stove for cooking chops, steaks, &c., by means of heat thrown downwards by radiation from asbestos bricks deserves especial notice, because of the impossibility of smoking or burning the meat by the fat falling into the fire. In another paper we shall pass on to the treatment of gas-meters, and conclude with the consideration of a question of importance to all who use gas for household purposes—namely, the effects its burning produces upon the atmosphere of our apartments. However convenient or pleasant gas-light may be, its use should always be adopted with a full knowledge of the serious evils which accompany it, evils which can only be guarded against by proper ventilation. In ill-ventilated rooms pains in the head, nausea, languor, and bronchial irritation arc frequently experienced by those who occupy them for any length of time. The serious consequences of inhaling unburnt gas are but too often forgotten, and there are thousands now burning it who never heard or read a word upon the subject. We should ill deserve the title House- hold Guide if we did not set up our warning here, and point out not only what to do, but also what to avoid. THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—VII. VEGETABLE PRODUCTS (continued from p. 280). Succulent Vegetables form a very important kind of food, as their use assists in keeping away certain diseases, such as scurvy, to which persons were formerly subject. The most important of these vegetables are the potato and other tubers, then the different varieties of cabbage, and lastly mushrooms. The Potato {Solatium tuberosuin) was introduced into Ireland from Chili in the year 1565, by Sir John Hawkins, and into England by Sir Francis Drake in 1585, and is now grown in almost every part of the civilised world. It contains 75 per cent, of water, about 16 per cent, of starch, 2 per cent, of nitro- genous matter, and 2 of dextrine and pectose ; so that, unless eaten with skim milk or other nitro- genous food, it does not afford sufficient nourish- ment by itself; indeed, it appears to be of less nutritive value than rice. Potatoes require about the same time for digestion as bread—viz., from two and a half to three hours. Although this tuber is so extensively grown in the United Kingdom, yet large quantities are imported every year, the weight in 1875 being 4,696,132 cwts. Of these, 3,055,000 cwts. came from France, 694,000 cwts. from Holland, 635,000 from Belgium, and 312,000 cwts. from other countries. The total value was ^1,070,976 in 1875, and as much as in 1876. The other roots commonly used —viz., the turnip, carrot, parsnip, beet, and radish—are of much less importance as vegetables than the potato, and we shall therefore treat them as a group. The Turnip [Brassica Rapa) contains a very con- siderable proportion of water—viz., 91 per cent.; whilst the Carrot {Daucus Carota), which is much more nutritious, has only 83 per cent., with 6 of sugar, and 85 of starch, against 2 only of sugar and 5 of starch in the turnip. The Parsnip {Pastinaca sativa) contains 82 per cent, of water, with about the same quantity of sugar, and i per cent, more starch than the turnip. It is therefore evident that, as an occasional article of our food, the latter are far preferable to the turnip. As to the Radish {Raphanus sativus), it can scarcely be termed an article of food, as it is made up of little else than water and woody fibre. The turnip is said to have been brought here from Hanover, the carrot from Holland, whilst the parsnip is a native of Britain. The Brassica, which is one of the most extensively cul- tivated genera of the cruciferce, yields the Common Cabbage (Brassica oleracea, div. i, capitata), of which there are numerous kinds. It is a native/of England, and is either eaten boiled or raw and pickled. Brussels Sprouts are considered by many the best eating of the cabbage tribe, but probably most persons prefer the Cauliflower and Broccoli (B. oleracea, div. botrytis). The cauliflower is not so hardy as the latter, comes into season much earlier in the year, and is believed to have been brought into this country from Cyprus. The Borecole, or Kale {B. oleracea, div. i, acephala), is not much used in England. The leaves of the young plants are more nutritious than Fig. 82.