114 DOMESTIC MEDICINE. The pots must be filled one-third with cinders for drainage ; we then divide the remaining space into three parts—laying first a layer of lumpy, rough soil; then a layer of finer soil, mixed with sand; next, and lastly, finely-powdered soil, containing a greater quantity of sand. The surface soil must be sandy and light. If you can- not obtain heath soil, a little powdered charcoal is a good substitute. Water the pots so as to thoroughly damp the soil, and let them stand for a day to drain in a dry shaded place. Level the surface of the soil and then thinly scatter in the seeds, top-dressing them with a layer of fine soil of a thickness in proportion to the size of the seeds used ; press the soil down, and lay over the top of the pot a square of window-glass; sometimes, in case the plants are delicate, or the sun scorching, it will be found ad- visable to shade with a piece of paper. For small seeds, such as calceolaria, lobelia, &c., a slight dressing of dry silver-sand is best. Mignonette re- quires dusty dry earth, lightly laid on. Balsams will take the tenth of an inch, and convolvulus one-fourth, to cover them. It is a very common mistake to plant seeds a great deal too deep. For bringing on tender plants, and keeping the less hardy kinds in winter, the miniature greenhouse is a most useful contrivance. Any ingenious person possessed of a few tools may make one for himself. The size and kind of the house must depend upon the number and nature of the plants he wishes to provide for, and it may be either little more than the ordinary garden-frame in character and appear- ance, or so constructed and fitted as to keep stove-plants in health in a severe season. Our illustrations will afford an idea both of the more simple and the more elaborate contrivances of this kind, and they may be of very moderate dimensions—in fact, in length from four feet upwards. Fig. I represents a small house, which may be placed in the corner of a garden or yard, to act as a receptacle for the window-plants when they have ceased to flower, a training-house for young plants raised from seed or cut- tings, and a shelter for fuchsias, cal- ceolarias, verbenas, &c., in the winter. It should be erected with the back on the north side of the garden, and the roof sloping towards the south, so as to receive as much as possible of the sun’s rays. A good layer of fermenting dung, placed underneath the soil, and removed from time to time, will generate heat; but in fine and temperate weather the roof should be lifted for the admission of the air, which is necessary to keep the plants thoroughly dry and healthy. At night, if the weather be frosty, the structure should be covered with a cloth or mat to prevent radiation. Our next illustration represents an arrangement for the supply of heat by artificial means without much expense or trouble, and this also is adapted to a greenhouse on a very small scale. The means used is a hot-air chamber, kept at a certain temperature by means of a spirit-lamp placed under a water-reservoir. A is here the reservoir, and B the opening for the water supply, covered by a lid when the lower portion of the reservoir is full, c may be either a stand for pots, or the soil in which the plants are embedded. D l) represents the air chamber surrounding the reservoir, and which moderates the heat before it reaches the plants; while E is the flue through which the heat is allowed to make its escape when it becomes excessive. F is the spirit-lamp, G the movable sash by which the outer air is freely admitted in temperate weather, and H the tap by which the water may be drawn off. Either of these plans is capable of adaptation to any corner of ground that may be available for the purpose. THE CULTIVATION OF SMALL GARDENS. (Continued fro7n p. 6o.) Gardens must necessarily vary in extent and shape. We will take as an example a plot of ground ninety feet long by forty wide, and although this will afford very fair scope for carrying out a nice arrangement with economy, still simplicity of design will be necessary. We do not advocate intricate plans on a small scale, as they only entail extra labour without an equiva- lent return. Suppose, then, that the frontage is laid out as a lawn and flower garden, we will proceed to give a few hints to enable our readers to follow out our plan, with such varia- tions as their own inclination may suggest. As a rule, let all walks in this department be curved rather than straight, sharp angles being very objectionable and harsh to the eye. Let the beds and borders be oval, round, or simply cuiwed, rather than angular. If you have room for a grass plot, all well and good ; but we do not like to see a lawn too small to be effec- tive. It will be sebn by the plan (Fig. 3) that we have provided for one in this instance. On this lawn we would plant a few miniature ornamental trees, such, for instance, as copper beech, silver birch, red or black thorn; or some of the better kinds of conifers, as cypress, pines, &c. The plots marked 2 may be planted with flowers; 3 is shrubbery. For kitchen and fruit garden, we have set apart two-thirds of the entire plot. On the wall a let a peach, nec- tarine, apricot, or vine be planted, or one of each, if the aspect and situation allow of it. The centre, or main por- tion of the ground, may be cropped with vegetables ; and if you follow a system of rotation in cropping, and have due regard to the application of manure, you cannot fail to make your garden pay. Let herbs occupy the border, b, cover the wall c with plum, cherry, and pear trees. The wall d will do for tomatoes, and the border e for smaller crops, such as lettuces, radishes, and the like. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—III. DISEASES INCIDENTAL TO CHILDREN (continuedfrom p. 84). Teething.—The process of teething is a natural one, and should be unattended with any particular symptoms of ailment. It generally begins about the sixth or seventh month, though in some children, especially those of a rickety constitution, its commencement is often long deferred. There are two sets of teeth in the human body: the first or temporary set, and the second or permanent. The eruption of the first set oLteeth is finished in from two to three years. The eruption of the permanent teeth extends from the age of six to that of twenty-five years. The first teeth to appear are generally the front teeth of