^3 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. terrier. When there is too much bull blood, or the animal is carelessly bred, the temper is apt to be ferocious and quarrelsome. Such a dog is absolutely worthless, and highly dangerous from his great pov/er. But well-bred animals are generally good-tempered, civil, and obedient, and as vermin dogs, have no equal. The jaws should show great power from the bull-dog blood, but the loins and back are also strong, and the general shape very nearly approaching that of the smooth terrier, but rather more massive. Where a large dog cannot be kept or is not desirable, the bull-terrier is a splendid watch dog, or protector for a lady, provided his disposition be trustworthy, a point which is easily ascertained. His fidelity and courage cannot be surpassed. The illustration given of the bull- terrier is taken from a very finely-formed and well-bred specimen of this variety. The poodle is par excellence the “ clever dog.” Nearly all the learned dogs which know the alphabet, or play dominoes, &c., are French poodles. Everywhere this breed shows an extraordinary aptitude for learning tricks, and hence is a great favourite with children. Their affection and fidelity are also exemplary. HOUSEHOLD LAW.—I. LAW OF MASTER (OR MISTRESS) AND SERVANT. The relation of master and servant arises out of the necessity under which a man labours to call in the assist- ance of others, where his own skill and capacity are insufficient to answer the cares incumbent on him. In the following remarks, what may be said of master and man will be equally applicable to mistress and maid. Domestic Servants.—These are also called jnenial ser- vants, from the Saxon word “meni” or “mcenig,” or the Norman “meing,” which means a train, retinue, or family. Some authorities, however, derive the word from “moenia,” the walls. They may be of several kinds, as butler, footman, nurse, cook, housemaid, &c.; and the nature of their service, its limits and its obligations, may vary according to the terms agreed upon at the t,ime of the hiring. But there are certain duties which are generally required of such servants, and in the absence of any express agreement it will be understood that it was for such general and customary service that the hiring took place. Whenever anything unusual or special is to be required of a servant, it should form the subject of an express stipulation previously to engagement. Otherwise, after the trouble taken to get character, and trouble caused to the servant by coming in, the master or mistress will be liable to be told, “ I was not engaged to do this.” So that if the coachman is intended to wait at table, in addi- tion to his duties in the stable; the nurse to do part of the house-work ; the cook to assist the housemaid in doing what is commonly understood to be “ housemaid’s work,” the intention should be made clear at the time of hiring ; and though it is not absolutely necessary, it will be found for every purpose most convenient if the conditions of the service, that is to say, the work to be done and the wages to be paid, be reduced into a memorandum and signed or “ marked ” by the servant. What is the regular duty commonly required of servants with whom no express contract has been made is matter of common fame to which any one can testify in the event of a dispute. This, however, often forms the subject of a quarrel. Duration of the Se7'vice.— It is customary in this coun- try to hire domestic servants by the year, in which case the wages are paid quarterly. Unless any express agree- ment be made on the subject, the law understands that either pai'ty may determine the se7'vice at will, upon giving a month’s warning, or upon payment or forfeiture of a month’s wages. With clerks, governesses, or others holding posts not menial, it is otherwise—a quarter’s notice or a quarter’s salary is the condition of leaving. There may be sometimes a weekly hiring—i.e., determin- able at the end of a current week from commencement. Su77i77iary Dts7nissal.—This power is reserved to a master or mistress, in order to prevent them from being saddled with what might be an intolerable nuisance. It must, however, be exercised, if at all, under such circum- stances onl)4 as the law would approve, else servants would be liable to be cast forth suddenly upon the world at the caprice of their employers, who might do injustice in a moment of passion, or under the influence of mistaken judgment. When a domestic servant is guilty of immoral conduct, wilfully refuses to obey orders, gets intoxicated, stays out all night without being able to give a satisfactory I'eason for so doing, or habitually neglects to carry out his or her master’s (or mistress’s) lawful commands, such domestic servant may be summarily dismissed, without any more wages being paid than are actually due. Of course in cases of detected theft, summary dismissal is allowed ; and dismissal is generally accompanied by de- livery into the hands of the police. A master or mistress has the right, in the case of loss through theft, to cause the servants’ rooms and boxes to be examined. The act of giving into custody on mere suspicion, however, is attended with the responsibilities which attach to the act when done towards anyone whatever. In the event of any mistake, or failure to show reasonable ground for suspicion, the employer will be liable to an action for false imprisonment, and possibly also for defamation of character. \Varning.~K clear month’s warning is all that is re- quired. So that this be given, it does not matter whether it be a month from the last pay-day, or, indeed, from any other particular date. It generally is a month from the date of the act committed, or omitted, which induced the employer to give warning. This is true also of warning given by the servant. D7ities of E77iploye7's to Serva7its.—It is the duty of an employer to pay his servant the wages agreed upon, and to house and to feed him in a suitable manner. What is a “ suitable ” manner must depend upon the class of ser- vant, the nature of his service, and the means of the employer; but it may be understood to be required by law, that the lodging must be such as would be approved for size, cleanliness, ventilation, and power of shelter from the weather, by the health officer of the district. As to diet, that is very much a matter of agreement; and it is well, in all cases, to settle it at the time of hiring, when the allowance of beer (if any), of tea, the number of meat meals per diem, and other matters, can be arranged. The law would simply require that sufflciency of good and wholesome food for a man or woman of the servant’s age should be supplied. Custom has much control in the matter, however, the law seldom being invoked except in cases of brutality, malicious ill-feeding, or stinting on starvation allowance. A servant who is at all dissatis- fied with his meat, has the remedy in his own hands by leaving it. A recent statute (1875) has imposed a penalty of ^20 or under, or imprisonment not exceeding three months, on any master who, being legally liable to provide for his servant food, clothing, medical aid, or lodging, wilfully, and without lawful excuse, refuses or neglects to provide the same, whereby the health of his servant or apprentice is or is likely to be seriously or permanently injured. An employer is not bound to provide a servant with medicine or medical attendance, but if he sends for a doctor he is liable, and cannot deduct the doctor’s bill from his servant’s wages, and in the event of the disable- ment of the servant by sickness or accident, he cannot discharge him or her without a month’s warning or wages.