CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 4-1 thin shaving of leather, and rolling it between the finger and thumb until it becomes round ; several of these berries are glued together to a thin strip of rolled leather which forms the stalk. Grapes are formed by cutting rounds of skiver leather to the size required, which should be wetted and placed in the grape mould ; then fill the leather in the mould firmly with wadding, and tie the grapes securely with fine twine; when the grape is finished put a piece of wire through the part where it has been tied up to form a stalk. For acorns and filberts the acorn and nut itself should be covered in leather. For larger fruits the leather must be moulded, while moist, over a plaster cast. It is advisable for the beginner to keep to foliage en- tirely at first, and learn to cover frames and brackets with them before attempting flowers ; therefore we will conclude this article with directions for that purpose, and a recipe for preserving leaves, and keeping them in form for imitation. Procure a frame, draw an outline of the design upon it, then cut strips of leather about three-quarters of an inch wide, and as long as the skin will allow ; turn the rough side outwards, and with the palm of the hand roll these strips on a table till they are somewhat rounded; then smear the inside with liquid glue; now roll them together till the two sides have adhered closely. The branch is now to be affixed to the frame, by giving it occa- sional touches of the liquid glue, and here and there inserting headless tacks; then glue or nail the foliage on thickly, so as to hide all the woodwork. Great taste can be displayed in the arrangement. Among the most effective and easiest imita- tions for beginners to make and arrange, are the ivy, vine, oak, and fern patterns. We give patterns for the ivy and a fern frond, copied from nature and of the natural size. Fig. 2 represents the ivy leaf, as cut out of the basil: it may be used as a pattern. Fig. 3 represents the same leaf veined; this also may be used as a pattern. Fig. 4 is an accurate tracing of a natural fern frond ; and Fig. 5 of an oak leaf. Stains and varnishes are to be procured of every shade when it is intended to imitate the appearance of old wood carvings. To imitate old oak or walnut-wood procure asphaltum varnish. For modern oak, brown or yellow varnish ; for pine, white. To stain the leaves, brush each stem and leaf entirely over with the varnish, using a hog’s hair brush for the purpose. Brush well over the veined parts, and should the leaves, when dry, not be so dark as desired, another coat may be given, but it should not be put on too thickly, and one coat must dry before another is applied. The frames and brackets must be coloured before the foliage is put on, but before the wood will take the stain the frame-work must be sized all over twice with melted size. Recipe for Preserving Leaves.—Take one pound white powdered starch, dry it before the fire, when cool put a layer of half an inch at the bottom of a small box, taking care that the box is dry ; gather the leaves on a fine day, and lay as many leaves on the starch powder as can be done without touching each other; then sprinkle starch powder over them, covering all the leaves well; then put another layer of leaves, and proceed with the powder as before, until the box is filled. Fill up with the powder, and fasten the box lid firmly down until the leaves are required. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—I. In commencing a system of domestic medicine it is ne- cessary to determine the classification of subjects. The best arrangement of diseases will be that which is most practical, which can be most easily comprehended and recollected. We will endeavour to be practical in our division of diseases, and also to be simple in the language which we use, avoiding technical phrases as much as possible. Before describing particular diseases we shall devote a few lines to a consideration of the symptoms by which we may'lcnow that a person is out of health, and we shall be particular in pointing out symptoms which imply a serious case, or one for which the doctor should be sent. It is lamentable to see in some cases how the importance of symptoms is overlooked until disease has made serious advance. Let us, accordingly, first mention A FEW SYMPTOMS THAT SHOULD ALWAYS BE CON- SIDERED GRAVE ENOUGH TO JUSTIFY US IN SENDING FOR THE DOCTOR. 1. Foremost among these is a shivering, or what doctors call a rigor, a Latin word meaning a stiff coldness. Most inflammations and fev'ers begin with more or less of this shivering or rigor, and it is a symptom to which doctors always attach importance. It may be a severe shivering, severe enough to make the teeth of the patient chatter, and the bed shake ; or it may be slight enough only to make the patient feel a little cold, as if cold water were running down the back. Sometimes there is only a pale- ness of the face and the surface generally to represent this peculiar symptom. This shivering is a very re- markable thing, and the exact nature and cause of it is yet a matter of discussion among doctors. But, never- theless, the significance of it is admitted on all hands, and it is in many cases the beginning of an illness more or less severe ; often of only a sore throat, but often, too, of an internal inflammation, or of rheumatic fever, or of one of the eruptive diseases, such as scarlet fever or small-pox. In lying-in-women it is generally a significant thing, but the exact significance of it can only be judged of by a doctor. It may mean the beginning of an abscess in the breast, or it may simply denote a weed, that is, a slight child-bed fever, characterised by alternate shiverings and sweatings, or it may imply a child-bed fever of a more serious kind, or an inflammation of the womb. It is probable that this symptom—a rigor—is a nervous symptom, and that it depends upon some effect produced upon the nerves or the nervous centres. In children it is sometimes represented or replaced by a thorough convul- sion. It is always an important thing, though the exact significance of it is to be determined by other symptoms, which do not always immediately follow. These symp- toms are generally pain in some part, as, for example, the throat, or in joints, or, in lying-in-women, in the breast. In other cases an eruption will succeed the rigor. When a shivering does occur, the proper thing to do is to administer some warm drink, put the patient to bed, apply warmth to the feet and cover the body well, and, if he is not soon well, to send for the doctor. 2. Another symptom of interest and importance is an itnusnal heat of the body, or, as doctors say, an elevation of the temperature. The natural heat of the body is about 98°. The temperature may be judged of roughly by the hand, but much more accurately by a thermometer, the bulb being placed under the tongue or in the arm-pit, the body being carefully covered over with bed-clothes. The patient should be an hour in bed before the thermometer is used. A very convenient and sensitive thermometer for medical purposes, and costing half-a-guinea, lately in- vented, will be found very useful for this purpose. It is at the same time an index thermometer, that is to say, it has a short column of mercury detached from the mercury of the bulb by a little air, which remains at any point to