47 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. which will produce the greatest amount of flesh and eggs ; and if it be attained, the domestic fowl is unques- tionably the most profitable of all live stock. But the problem is rather a nice one, for there is no “ mistake on the right side” here. A fat hen is not only subject to many diseases, but ceases to lay, or nearly so, and becomes a mere drag on the concern ; while a pampered male bird is lazy and useless at best, and very probably, when the proprietor most requires his services, may be attacked by apoplexy and drop down dead. That fowls cannot be remunerative if starved need scarcely be proved. Ex ttihilo nihil Jit; and the almost daily production of an article so rich in nitrogen as an egg — the very essence of animal nourishment — must demand an ample and regular supply of adequate food. We say no more upon this point, knowing that the common mistake of nearly all amateur poultry-keepers is upon the other side—that of over-feeding. The usual plan, where fowls are regularly fed at all, appears to be to give the birds at each meal as much barley or oats as they will eat; and this being done, the owner prides himself upon his liberality, and insists that his at least are properly fed. Yet both in quantity and quality is he mistaken. Grain will do for the regular meals of fowls which live on a farm, or have any other extensive range where they can provide other food for themselves, have abundant exercise, and their digestive organs are kept in vigorous action. But poultry kept in confinement on such a diet will not thrive. Their plumage, after awhile, begins to fall off, their bowels become affected, and they lose greatly in condition ; and though in summer their eggs may possibly repay the food expended, it will be almost impossible to obtain any in winter, when they are most valuable. All fixed dietary scales for fowls are delusive. The one simple rule is to give them as much as they will eat eagei'ly, and no more ; directly they begin to feed with apparent indifference, or cease to run when the food is thrown at a little distance, the supply should be stopped. In a state of nature, they have to seek far and wide for the scanty morsels which form their subsistence ; and the Creator never intended that they, any more than human beings, should eat till they can literally eat no more. It follows, from this rule, that food should never be left on the ground. If such a slovenly practice be permitted, much of what is eaten will be wasted, and a great deal will never be eaten at all; for fowls are dainty in their way, and unless at starvation point always refuse sour or sodden food. The number of meals per day best consistent with real economy will vary from two to three, according to the size of the run. If it be of moderate extent, so that they can, in any degree, forage for themselves, two are quite suffi- cient, at least in summer, and should be given early in the morning, and the last thing before the birds go to roost. In any case, these will be the principal meals ; but when the fowls are kept in confinement, they will require, in addition, a scanty—and only a very scanty—feed at mid- day. The first feeding should consist of soft food of some kind. The birds have passed a whole night since they were last fed ; and it is important, especially in cold weather, that a fresh supply should as soon as possible be got into the system, and not merely into the crop. If grain be given, it has to be ground in the poor bird’s gizzard before it can be digested; and on a cold winter’s morning the delay is anything but beneficial. But for the very same reason, at the evening meal grain forms the best food which can be supplied it is digested slowly, and during the long cold nights affords support and warmth to the fowls. A great deal depends upon this system of feeding, and as we are aware it is opposed to the practice of many, who give grain for the breakfast, and meal, if at all, at night, let the sceptical reader make one simple e.xperi- ment. Give the fowls a feed of meal, say at five o’clock in the evening; at twelve visit the roosts, and feel the crops of the poor birds. All will be empty ; the gizzard has nothing to act upon, and the food speedily disappears, leaving with an empty stomach, to cope with the long cold hours before dawn, the most hungry and incessant feeder of all God’s creatures. But if the last feed has been grain, the crop will still be found partially full, and the birds will awake in the morning hearty, strengthened, and refreshed. With respect to the morning meal of pultaceous food, when only a few fowls are kept, to supply eggs for a moderate family, this may be provided almost for nothing by boiling daily the potato peelings till soft, and mashing them up with enough bran, slightly scalded, to make a tolerably stiff and dry paste. There will be more than sufficient of this if the fowls kept do not exceed one for each member of the household ; and as the peelings cost nothing, and the bran very little, one half the food is pro- vided at a merely nominal expense, while no better could be given. A little salt should always be added, and in cold or wet days in winter a slight seasoning of pepper will tend to keep the hens in good health and laying. This food may be mixed boiling hot over night, and covered with a cloth, or be put in the oven ; in either case it will remain warm till morning—the condition in which it should always be given in cold weather. If a tolerable stock of poultry be kept, such a source of supply will be obviously inadequate ; and in purchasing the food' there is much variety to choose from. Small or “pig” potatoes may be bought at a low price and simi- larly treated ; or barley-meal may be mixed with hot water; or an equal mixture of meal and “ sharps,” or of Indian meal and bran ; either of these make a capital food. Or, if offered on reasonable terms, a cart-load of swede or other turnips, or mangel-wurzel, may be pur- chased ; and when boiled and mashed with meal or “ sharps,” we believe forms the very best soft food a fowl can have, especially for Dorkings ; but they cannot every- where be obtained at a cheap rate, and the buyer must study the local market. A change of food, at times, will be beneficial, and in making it the poultry-keeper should be guided by the season. It is, however, necessary to avoid giving too great a proportion of maize, either as meal or corn, or the effect will be a useless and prejudicial fattening from the large quantity of oil it contains ; it is best mixed with barley or bean-meal, and is then a most economical and useful food. Potatoes, also, from the large proportion of starch contained in them, are not good as a regular diet for poultry ; but occasionally mixed with bran or meal will be found most conducive to condition and laying. In mixing soft food, there is one general rule always to be observed : it must be mixed rather d7y, so that it will break if thrown upon the ground. There should never be enough water to cause the food to glisten in the light, or to make a sticky porridgy mass, which clings round the beaks of the fowls and gives them infinite annoyance, besides often causing diarrhoea. If the weather be dry, and the birds are fed in a hard gravelled yard, the food is just as well, or better, thrown on the ground. If they are fed.in the shed, however, it is best to use an oblong dish of zinc, or, preferably, earthen- ware, such as represented in Fig. 3. The trough or dish must, however, be protected, or the fowls will walk upon it, scratch earth into it, and waste a large portion ; and this is best prevented by having a loose curved cover made of tin and wire, as shown in Fig. 4, which, when