224 GARDENING. than fruits, and are even more necessary than animal food. . 1 . , We shall commence with the formation of the kitchen o-arden, a topic which involves a variety of considera- tions, among others the situation, exposure, aspect, extent, shelter, shade, soil, water, form, &c. 1 he situation of a kitchen garden is v^ery important. It should be as near the dwelling-house as is consistent with convenience. If possible, it should be either to the back or at the side of the house, but never in front, as, independent of its appearance, the necessary garden operations would be at times unpleasant. It frequently happens that gardeners are guided by circumstances ; but, if possible, low situa- tions and the bottom of valleys should be avoided, as, in the first instance, there is a natural sourness in the soil that cannot be removed ; and, in the second, there is liability to damps and fogs, which are very prejudicial to plants, in spring evenings, by moistening the young tops, and exposing them to injuries from frosty nights, which often succeed them. Neither should the situation be so high as to be exposed to boisterous winds, which are equally hurtful; but a situation between these extremes is the most desirable. The next consideration is exposure. The garden should not be surrounded by close woods or plantations, because a foul stagnant air is frequent in such confined situations, which is very prejudicial to growing plants, but should be open and free, to admit the sun and air, with an inclination of the ground of about one foot in thirty. The aspect is another consideration of great import- ance in the laying out of a garden ; it should lie to the south-east if possible, but there is no objection to its being a point or two more to the east, as the sun will still be upon it soon after rising, and its influence will increase re-gularly as the day advances, which will be found to have a very beneficial effect in dissolving hoar-frost. When the sun is excluded from a garden till ten or eleven o’clock in the morning, and then darts upon it with all its full heat derived from considerable elevation, the aspect is bad ; the powerful rays of heat melt the icy particles at once, and, acting upon the moisture thus created, scald the tender tops of the most delicate plants and greatly injure them. The covering of the hoar-frost is otherwise par- ticularly preservative to vegetables from frosty winds. In respect to the extent of a garden, but little can be said, depending as it does either upon the demands of the family, or the amount of land actually at disposal for the purpose. Few gentlemen’s gardens in the country contain less than three roods, and sometimes they extend to ten or twelve acres. The farmer and cottager have generally small portions allotted in the most convenient part or corner of the homestead, in which they grow the most common kitchen garden crops, as potatoes, turnips, carrots, &c. For a family of four persons (exclusive of servants) a rood is about enough, and so on in proportion, allowing it to be larger rather than too small. In order to bring the produce of the soil to perfection, the garden should be sheltered from the east, north, and west winds by hills and rising ground ; but these should be at such a distance on all sides as not to prevent the sun’s rays in the spring, when warmth is of immense value. In the nc.xt place the soil of a garden is obviously of the greatest moment. This should be a moderately light mellow loam, and if mixed with silvery grit so much the better. It should not be of a binding nature in summer, nor retentive of an undue quantity of wet in winter, but of such a texture as may be worked at any season of the year. The soil of a garden should be at least eighteen inches deep; l:>ut if it be two feet so much the better, for when the plants arc in a state of maturity, if the roots of most kinds arc minutely traced, they will be found to penetrate into the earth in search of food to that depth or more, providing the soil be of such a nature as to admit them. The very worst soil is a heavy clay, and the next a light loose sand ; a moderate clay, however, is preferable to a very light soil, though not so pleasant to work, yet the former may be made good garden soil with a little trouble and expense, but the latter will require a good deal of both. It will very rarely happen that the soil is exactly suitable, inasmuch as it will either prove too poor, too strong, or too light, and in either case it must be carefully improved without delay; in the performing of which our readers must be guided by its nature, so as, if possible, to render it subservient to most general purposes. Hence our duty is to endeavour to hit on that medium which suits the generality of vegetables grown in kitchen gardens. If the bottom or subsoil be of a wet, cankering nature, judicious draining (which we shall describe in a future paper) is the most eligible means; but where the soil is stubborn, small gravel, sand, coal ashes, lime, and the like, are very appropriate substances to be applied, and will, if carefully and well worked into the ground by digging in the winter months, or indeed at all times when the ground is not in crop, soon bring it to a proper texture for most purposes. The ground should be laid in ridges, in order to give the greatest possible extent of surface for the weather to act upon. Where the soil is poor sand or gravel, clay or clayey loam, the scourings of ditches, which run on a clayey subsoil, pond-mud from a similar situation, or scrapings of roads which lie in a clayey district will be found great improvers; but all, or any of these, are of little use unless the ground be well worked and pulverised, which is of itself a very obvious improvement, and which, indeed, is applicable to most soils in proportion to their adhesive texture. Even free siliceous soils will,- if not moved, soon become too compact for the admission of heat, air, and rain, and the free growth of the tender fibres of plants. Our next consideration is water., a copious supply of which is essential to a good kitchen garden, it being necessary both to the commencement and progress of vegetation, as it is, so to speak, the vehicle which conveys to vegetables all the substances useful to their support, and without it no one will continue to vegetate; and if kept long without, the leaves will droop and assume a withered appearance ; and for want of it many kitchen garden crops are lost, or the produce is of very inferior quality. From whatever source water is obtained, it should be conducted to, and reserved in, an open pond or basin, as near the centre of the garden as possible. The best plan, however, is to have a square tank built in the ground with bricks, which if compoed over, will last for years, and may be kept constantly filled from a pump, by means of a sufficient length of hose (fitted to the spout) to reach from the former to the latter. Well water, recently drawn, is very improper for watering any kind of vegetable ; yet if it has stood in a pond or basin until warmed by the sun’s rays it may be used ; but soft or rain water is much more conducive to vege- tation. The garden should be situated near a river, pond, or brook, if possible, from which the water may be conducted to it by drains or pipes, being careful to lay them low enough to receive the water in the driest season, when it is generally most wanted. Our next consideration is as to form, and none to our notion is more proper than a square or a parallelogram; but we decidedly give the preference to the former. Kitchen gardens are mostly, or should be, bounded by lines of walling, the chief reason for which is for the production of fruit, as a kitchen garden destined solely for the production of vegetables may be as well fenced by hedges as walls, and indeed, where hedges are good, they are more secure from trespassers. In laying out a kitchen garden with walls the principal considerations are as to height, aspect, construction, and materials, all of which we shall take into consideration in a future paper.