CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 149 The Pruning Knife^ as its name indicates, is used for the purpose of keeping fruit and other trees and shrubs in order by cutting back the shoots at the proper time. A good form of pruning-knife is shown in Fig. 10. The Dibbler or Dibble, of which there are two kinds (Figs. 5 and 6), is used for various things ; the small one for planting stocks, cabbages, lettuces; and the large one, with a projecting piece of iron for the foot to rest on, for dibbling in potatoes. Either of these may, if necessary, be made out of an old spade-handle, with a little contrivance, although it is better that you have such things properly shod with iron, as they do the work cleaner and with greater expedition. The Pitchfork (Fig. 3) is an exceedingly handy implement in a garden, as it is often required for turning over manure, making up hot - beds, shaking out dry litter, and distributing such dressing or manure as is spread over the ground previous to its being dug. The Budding Knife is of small dimensions, and is used in preparing the bud and stock for bud- ding. It has a bone or ivory handle tapering towards the end, which is used for raising the bark so that the bud may be inserted easily. There are blades of several shapes, but the one represented in Fig. 9 is the best for ordinary work. The Trowel (Fig. 4) is a tool no gardener should be without, as it is most useful for the removal of plants from one spot to another, where it is ne- cessary to retain a ball of earth to their roots, and whenever the spade could not conveniently be used. Baskets (F ig. 7).—These will be found useful for col- lecting weeds, vegetable refuse, roots, &c., in small quantities, for removal from one place to another in lieu of the barrow. The size and number of these entirely depend upon circumstances. ROTATION CROPPING OF A SMALL GARDEN. (Continued from p. 139.) July.—I. As raspberries and strawberries are the only occupants of this department, little care will be needed, with the exception of removing suckers of the former and runners of the latter, in the event of their not being required—and they will not be unless the family is particularly partial to them, at the expense of other things. If, however, a few plants are wanted, some of the strongest runners may be permitted to ramble at will over the ground, on the outside row, and these should be either t'^g- 5- (\ Fig. 10. pegged down into pots, or into the ground. 2. As soon as the potatoes in this quarter have been taken up, the ground should be dug over, and some early turnips sown for a will partly occupy this plot, the requisite attention must winter supply. We prefer to sow a small quantity often, I be paid to each at the right time. rather than wait till the entire spot becomes vacant. As it is almost too late to plant cauliflowers, a portion of the ground may be reserved for early or autumn broccoli. 3. Liquid manure supplied to sea-kale now will prove far more beneficial than dung heaped upon their crowns in winter time. Rhubarb will require no further care than cutting away all but one of the flower stems, and this one may be considerably reduced. If, however, no seed is required, it may be cut down close towards the end of the month. Use the hoe continually for the purpose of keep- ing weeds under, and the soil in a healthy condition. 4. The hoe may be used between onions, provided you can use it v/ithout injuring the leaves, but not otherwise, as this crop will or should have had a final thinning last month. If perchance a row or two of celery was planted in this depart- ment last month, it will be necessary to earth up the same ; but a dry day must be chosen for the work. Any vacant ground should have a slight rak- ing over, just to make it look neat until such time as you can plant it. 5. Place sticks to such peas as require support, and see to the immediate re- moval of those past bear- ing, taking care not to injure broccoli and other things planted between them. 6. Very little at- tention will be required here, with the exception of keeping the kidney- beans clear of weeds, and seeing that high winds do not injure either the dwarf or runner varieties, for it is alike detrimental to both. 7. There is. just a chance that carrots, may prove a failure, and if so, as it will be too late- to sow again, the best- plan will be to fill up the gaps in the beds with- lettuces; or a sowing of turnips may be made to come in in the autumn ; but do not fill the ground with anything that is likely to occupy it in the winter, as such an arrangement would interfere with your future plans. Such broad beans as are making rapid progress must have their tops nipped off, and the soil should be afterwards stirred between them, and, indeed, between every other crop. 8. This compartment being principally intended for the growth of celery, and the time having arrived for planting the general or main crop, a few words on its management will doubtless be acceptable. Here we will only say that, to ensure good and fine sticks, abundance of room will be necessary. Single and shallow trenches suit best for a small supply, but for a larger quantity broad ones should be made. Fuller directions on the growth of celery will be given as our work proceeds. As endive and other odds and ends Fig. 9. ttersea