2i6 DOMESTIC MEDICINE. tions. It 13 a disease which extends over several weeks. In the case of children it is not a very fatal disease; though a disease of great importance and severity, often leading to extreme emaciation, which suggests fears that there is some other complaint about the child. It will be readily understood that with such a sensitive condition of the intestine, the child or even the adult passing through or recovering from this disease is apt to be hurt by irritating or injudicious diet. We should not fail to say, that bed sores are not un- common in this disease, owing to the patient lying so long on his back, and this in a prostrate condition. Causes.—In the great majority of cases typhoid fever seems to arise from a very particular cause—namely, from animal or vegetable matter in a state of decay or putre- faction, and especially from sewage matter. In every house in which cases occur, drains should be looked to, to see if there is any escape of sewage matter or of sewage gases. A very common cause of the disease in badly drained towns or villages, is the admixture of sewage matter with drinking water. This is very apt to happen if well water is used. Every now and then we hear of wholesale epidemics of this disease occurring in the line of a certain set of water-pipes, houses supplied by other water-pipes being exempt amid prevailing disease. The motions of persons affected with this disease are charged with the power of conveying it, so they should be at once disinfected and completely removed. All drains of the house should be disinfected also. For this purpose a teaspoonful or two of crude carbolic acid should be mixed with every motion ; and the same should be fre- quently put into the water-closet pan. Motions should not be allowed to remain long in the room. Treatment.—We need scarcely say that typhoid fever is not a disease for domestic treatment only. The do- mestic treatment will consist chiefly in the administration of proper food ; in anticipating the natural wants of the patient independent of suggestions from him ; in looking for any redness or sore of the back, and in keeping the patient as clean as possible consistently with not disturb- ing or raising him too much. Beef tea, broth, and milk will be the best diet; but towards the second or third week the patient may require stimulants. The exact degree and kind of these must be determined by a medical man. There has been a tendency of late years to administer too many stimulants both in fever and other diseases ; but used moderately and judiciously, they are undoubtedly beneficial in this disease. We should repeat here the caution about giving animal or other solid food during convalescence from typhoid fever. Great care should be taken in consideration of the fact that the intestine is only recovering from a state of ulceration. Relapses may be induced, and other harm done by giving solid food too soon. The apartment of the patient should be kept airy, without exposing him to draughts of air. The skin of the back should be frequently looked to. Inflamed spots may be bathed with a little spirits of camphor, and a water or an air cushion should be placed under the part on which the patient lies constantly. If the disease is infectious or contagious at all, it is only slightly so—unlike typhus, which we shall immediately describe ; and if proper care be taken to remove and disinfect all the discharges of the patient, especially the motions, to rectify and disinfect the drains, and to purify the water supply, there is little fear of it spreading. The rest of the treatment must devolve on a medical man, and requires much judgment. Typhus is not so common in children as in adults; nor, probably, is it so common in children as typhoid. It is a disease arising out of a state of poverty; want and overcrowding are the conditions in which it arises. But when it occurs, it is intensely contagious, and may affect any one who has much to do with the patient. It often prevails epidemically during seasons of general scarcity. Its chief centres are large towns, especially Glasgow*and Liverpool. Its chief victims are the poor, and those who have unavoidable or kind relations with; them—unlike typhoid, which attacks rich and poor indiscriminately. The symptoms of the disease somewhat resemble those of typhoid fever—that is to say, it sets in with heaviness,, muscular weakness, headache accompanied with fever, and furred tongue, which soon becomes dry. There is great prostration of nervous and muscular strength. The points of distinction between this disease and typhoid are principally two or three : first, in the nature of the erup- tion ; secondly, in the absence generally of diarrhoea and of that tenderness of some parts of the abdomen which are so common in typhoid ; thirdly, in the disease being of shorter duration, and more apt to come to a height and change definitely on a given day in the way of a crisis, such as the fourteenth day. A favourable crisis, is shown by a decided fall in the temperature of the patient, or by a fall in the pulse, or by the recurrence of sleep after prolonged watchfulness, or by the concurrence of a number of these favourable symptoms. Relapse is, not common in typhus. When fatal, it is usually so between the twelfth and twentieth days. The greater the age of the patient, the greater the danger of the disease. The eruption, or rash of typhus, appears about the seventh day, or earlier ; it consists of irregular spots of a, dusky or nutlberry hue, and after the first two or three days scarcely disappears under pressure. The spots do- not come and go, as is the case with the rose spots of typhoid; they all appear in the course of three or four days, and remain throughout the disease. Treahnent.—The general and more domestic treatment of typhus does not differ from that of typhoid. The ner- vous prostration is greater, the weakness of the circulation is greater, and hence stimulants form a more indispensable part of the treatment, but their use must, of course, be dictated by medical judgment. Good ventilation, plenty of simple nourishment, such as beef tea, milk, &c.; attention to the wants of the patient; looking closely to the state of the back for redness or sores, and being ready with an air or a water cushion, and doing everything for the patient with as little disturbance or movement of him as possible, are the principal points in the domestic management of cases of typhus fever. But there is another point of great importance ; it is this : to remember that the disease is very contagious, and that therefore the number of persons exposed to the risk should not be greater than is proper or unavoidable. The room should be freed from carpets and curtains, and have a comfortable amount of fire in it. Above all, it should be well aired. All the discharges of the patient should be disinfected, as directed in the case of typhoid. Clothes should be disinfected by prolonged boiling, or by exposure to a dry heat of 200 degrees, and afterwards to fresh air. It will be understood how significant and important is the occurrence of such diseases as typhoid and typhus. On any large scale they are matters of public interest, for they imply errors i'n the social conditions of the people, pch as it is the duty of good government, local and imperial, to prevent. Epidemics of typhoid happen so often, and on such a huge scale, in connection with palpable faults and flaws in the water supply of towns and villages, that it has been considered the time has come for making water companies responsible in damages to the sufferers or their survivors; Often, of course, the fault is more that of the individual householder than of the water companies. Epidemics of typhus suggest extensive destitution and the crowding of the poor into ill-ventilated houses ; they are to be decreased by everything tending to improve the physical condition of the people.