COOKERY. 3°4 COOKERY.—XVIII. SOUPS AND PUREES. Mock-Turtle.—Half a calf’s head, with the skin on, scalded, will be enough for a middle-sized family. As soon as the head is received, remove the cartilage of the nostril, and put it to steep and draw the blood, &c., out in a pail of cold water with a handful of salt in it. Set it on the fire, well covered with cold soft water, without salt in it. Let it come slowly to a boil; remove the scum as fast as it rises. As soon as it really boils, let it have a bubble or two, and then take it out. Reject the water in which it was boiled. This is done to get rid of certain impurities, which might prejudice people against the call’s head boilings being used in the soup. After rinsing the boiler, return the calfs head to it, and set it to boil again in hot water with a little salt in it. When the calf’s head is done, which will take from two hours to two and a half (for it should be still firm and not fall to pieces), take it up, and set it aside to cool. When cold, take out the brains, and set it aside. Cut the flesh into handsome mouthful pieces, removing the white skin of the palate ; do the same with the tongue, and set all these pieces aside. The remaining trimmings may either be returned to the broth to enrich the soup, or, if there is enough, they may be made into a small calfs head cheese. To make the stock for your soup. To the calf’s head broth add as much water as you are likely to want, allowing for boiling down. Put to it a calfs foot neatly prepared and split, or a neat’s foot idem ; three pounds of knuckle of veal, cut across in slices, is better than either. Put in also two pounds of shin of beef ditto. Add carrots and onions peeled and sliced ; you yourself must judge how highly you wish your soup to be flavoured with vegetables, as well as of its richness in gelatine and extract of meat. Skim scrupulously ; let it boil slowly several hours, till the meat falls to pieces. Half an hour before that time season with pepper, salt, cayenne (if approved), a blade of mace, a stick of celery, a brown- ing ball, or a bit of burnt onion, a bay leaf or two, a bit of lemon-peel, and a bunch of the sweetest herbs at your command, including sweet basil and knotted marjoram, if possible. When the soup is well impregnated with their perfume, strain it through an ordinary cullender, and set it aside to cool. This soup being thick, not clear, straining it through a sieve or five-holed cullender would only rob it of many nutritive particles. To thicken your soup. Roll a good lump of butter in as much flour as you can make it take up. Put it into a stew-pan, and when it begins to brown, dust in more flour, and stir in gradually some of your stock, adding more and more as it incorporates, and so on, until you have sufficient thickening to bring your soup to the desired consistency. Then warm up the whole together, ami if you will, stir in a couple of glasses of madeira or good marsala, or any other good white wine. Now add your dice of calf’s head and tongue to the soup, as also forcemeat balls, brain cakes, and egg balls, if you use them. Though iiked by many, they are not indispensable. We add instructions for their making. For Forcemeat Balls.—Make some turkey stuffing thus ; —Chop fine separately a bit of beef or veal suet as big as an egg, the rind of half a lemon, sprigs of parsley, thyme, and chervil. Mix these in a bowl with a large breakfast- cup-full of grated bread-crumbs ; season with pepper and grated nutmeg ; break into them a couple of eggs, and work all together into a stiff paste. Roll portions of this paste into the size and shape of the forcemeat balls re- quired; roll them in flour, and bake them brown and crisp outside in your Dutch oven, or the oven of your stove. For Balls.—To one egg put just as little flour as will make it into a paste that you can pinch into shape with your fingers. Season with pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and with less chopped lemon-peel cut very thin. Work these into pellets the size of marbles, making a few of them long like miniature sausages. Throw them into boiling broth, and let them boil galloping till their substance is set. Mock-turtle will keep several days, being the better for it, and will even travel in jars. It is best warmed up by setting the jar in boiling water. If only a portion of it is taken at a time, it must be well stirred up to get your share of the meat which has settled at the bottom. Potage a la Tortue.—This potage is so substantial that it may supply the place of an entire repast. Half boil in salt and water a piece of a calfs head, taking only the lean. Cut it into little pieces, the shape of playing dice. Brown them in butter, with the addition of parsley, thyme, basil, bay-leaf, small onions, mushrooms, cloves, pepper, nutmeg, ginger, and lean ham also cut into dice. When your meat and ham are fried enough, take them out and set them aside. Put a good lump of butter in a stew-pan, brown in it a dessert-spoonful or more of flour for thick- ening ; stir in gradually the quantity of water or broth necessary to make your soup ; season with salt, lemon- juice, and allspice. Add glazing, or gravy reduced to a jelly, if you have any. Let it boil up ; skim, and pass it through a coarse strainer or cullender. Then return to the soup the fried bits of calfs head and ham and a few forcemeat balls made as above, only with an equal quantity of minced cold meat (veal or fowl is preferable) and bread-crumbs. Ox-Tail Soup.—Take two fresh ox-tails ; stale ones would infallibly spoil your soup ; see that they are quite clean ; cut them into their separate joints. Wash them well in salt and water, but do not leave them in it. Set them on the fire with a good quantity of cold soft water, to allow for reduction by evaporation. Add to them sliced carrots, onions, leeks, a few peppercorns, and a couple of cloves. Skim well as they come to a boil. When the tails are nearly tender (which will take from three to four hours of gentle stewing), add a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, and half a stick of celery. When the tails are cooked, take them out and set them aside. Skim the fat from the top of the broth and set it aside. Crush the vegetables through a middle-sized holed cullender, and add to the broth all that passes through in the shape of mash orpurde. To increase the quantity of your soup, you may prepare at the same time, or previously, a strong stock made with two pounds of shin of beef, and one pound of knuckle of veal boiled down with carrots, leeks, and onions (with careful skimming) until their goodness is all extracted. Pour the liquor from the meat, skim off the fat, and set it aside. With this fat, and that from the tails, make a brown thickening with flour; mix it with the soup, add the jointed tails, and season with salt and a tablespoonful or two of mushroom catchup. It is usual to eat, not toasted bread dice, but fresh rolls, with this and mock-turtle soup. By serving the joints of ox-tail with a small quantity of the thickened soup more highly seasoned (with pepper, and if you will, half a glass of red wine), and surrounded with the cooked vegetables left unbroken, you produce excellent stewed ox-tail, which you may further garnish by triangles of toasted bread laid round the dish. Cherry Soup {German Recipe).—Pluck the cherries from their stalks, and boil them sufficiently in water, with cinnamon, lemon-peel, and lemoil-juice. Then add wine and sugar, and serve it poured over bread cut into dice and fried in butter. You may also pound a few cherries small, boil them in water, and pass them through a sieve. This soup may likewise be made with dried cherries, or prunes, and pearl barley, boiled several hours in water, passed through a sieve, and then served as above. In German bills of fare sweet soups arc frequent, and cinna- mon is a favourite condiment.