354 THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN. blacklead. The form as seen in the sitter must then be built up in clay, in the same manner as when copying the mask, only that m this case constant attention must be paid to the outline, since on that much of the likeness will depend. The hair will probably rather puzzle the beginner. He may, in the first place, get the general effect by using the deeply-serrated ends of the tool shown to the left in the illustration to our first article. Afterwards he must take the fine tool shown to the right, and with that divide into masses as he sees them in his sitter, and then indent them, more especially towards the ends, with curved lines ; by the abruptness or easy curvature of which he will be able to show the character of the hair, whether crisp or flowing. This will require some care and delicacy of touch. The relief, or greatest lieight above the background, should not, in a head of this size, greatly exceed half an inch. A Bust.— In this lesson we shall give the method of modelling a bust, which shall be one of the size of life ; for the greater includes the less, and if the student is able to do this he will find no difficulty in making one of smaller size. The necessary modelling-stool, on which the bust must be worked, has already been described, but a frame will also be required. Its bottom should be of stout board, equal in size with the top of the stool. Into the centre an upright of wood, two inches square and two feet high, should be strongly morticed, and this again should have a cross-arm four or five inches in length near its top. This is shown in Fig. i, on page 353. Round this the clay must be built into a rude resemblance of a bust, so as to imbed the cross-arm in the centre of the head, and to allow the upright to pass down the middle of the neck. This should be done some three or four days before the first sitting, for a considerable quantity of clay—some half-hundredweight—will be used, and that length of time will be required to allow it to set. Before the work is begun, observe carefully what is the characteristic attitude of the sitter, Most people, when at ease, have some peculiar habit, more or less marked, of holding the head ; leaning it forward, throwing it slightly back, or towards the right shoulder or the left. If this trait can be given in the bust, the likeness will be greatly increased. Chantrey, whose busts are second to none, was so convinced of the importance of this, that he made a point of inviting his sitters to breakfast before he began work, that he might study them unobserved. If possible, it will be well to work in front of a tolerably lofty window, and to darken the lower half, that the light may fall somewhat from above on both sitter and bust. Place the bust and sitter side by side facing the light, taking care that the heads of both, as well as that of the modeller, are on the same level, and proceed to build up the forms as in previous instances. It is well to rough out the general proportions of the bust, and to get in the larger masses, before giving details. Give the breadth of the shoulders, the depth of the chest, the thickness of the neck, and the length and width of the head. Measurements may be taken, whenever required, with the callipers, which are merely a large pair of compasses with the points curved inwards. Then begin roughly to plan out the features. At first mere hollows will suffice to show the eyes ; and digging in the thumb at the proper places, for the apertures of the ears and corners of the mouth, will indicate those features sufficiently; while a few random strokes with the tool will serve to express the hair. Every- thing at first should be treated in a large and broad manner; and even in this stage, if the work be done properly, some re- semblance will begin to appear. Next make the outline of the profile generally correct, and afterwards put in the features, measuring their dimensions and proper positions with the compasses. For some time it will be necessary to concen- trate the chief attention on the face ; when that becomes satisfactory, model the neck ; and it will then be desirable to devote a sitting to the hair alone. As the masses of hair constantly vary, and are never the same two successive days, it is well that the whole arrangement of hair on the bust should be modelled at once; mere finish may be given afterwards. Another sitting may be given to the dress. Hitherto the shoulders have been left roughly blocked out to a rude resemblance of the human shape ; it is not well to clothe them till the head is far advanced, and the neck, so far as regards form, finished; but they may now be covered, either with the usual dress of the sitter, or with a cloak, mantle, or other piece of conven- tional drapery thrown loosely round them ; this should be copied carefully from the actual material. All that now re- mains to be done is to bring the whole to a good surface. The face and flesh generally may be treated as directed in the first lesson. The texture of the drapery will be best expressed by leaving upon it the marks of the teeth of the wire-tool, and of the piece of stocking. The hair should be left rough from the tool maiEs. Whilst modelling a bust, make it an object to put in as much for7n as possible while the sitter is present; mere smoothing may be done afterwards ; remembering that (though in this case ab- solute stillness is not, as in the medallion, necessary) sitting is tiresome, and that there are limits to human patience. By means of the turn-table on the modelling- stool any side of the bust can be brought forward to be worked upon, without change of position on the part of the modeller ; the sitter must, however, be requested to turn as the bust is turned. It is believed that in the foregoing remarks will be found all the information needful to the amateur, not only for working out the examples chosen, but also, with slight modifications, for enabling him to adapt the art to any other of the numerous purposes for which it is fitted. When some skill has once been acquired, objects on which to employ it, and appropriate methods by which to decorate them, will readily occur to anyone of intelligence and taste. We have now only to treat of one more process— that of Casting; for the day model, it must be remembered, is not permanent. It is true that such models as have no framework of wood or metal, and are wholly composed of clay, are sometimes preserved by burning, becoming what are known as terra-cottas ; but to burn them is a matter of much difficulty, and can only be done with costly appli- ances ; it is, therefore, beyond the reach of the amateur. Usually, if the clay becomes dry it shrinks, cracks, and crumbles to pieces ; hence the ordinary method is to keep the model damp till it can be cast in plaster of Paris. How this may be done will be shown in a future article. THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN.—VIII. DIETARY OF YOUTH [continued from p. 343). Mutton and beef are the highest and most suitable forms of animal food; but compositions in which suet, eggs, milk, and butter enter, come also under the head of animal food. In this respect, well-made puddings may represent a meat meal in so far as nourishment is con- cerned, although the nourishment may not be of the highest possible class. A good homely substitute for a full meal of meat will be found in a pudding composed of batter, made of eggs, milk, and flour, to which has been added morsels of fresh beefsteak, stirred into the batter. This pudding, seasoned with pepper and salt, and care- fully baked, will constitute a healthy and palatable meal for a family at comparatively small cost. Again, a well- boiled steak-pudding is excellent fare, and suitable to tlic strong digestion of growing boys and girls. The crust of the pudding supplies the bulk, combined with nourish- ment, so important at that age. Prime joints are not absolutely necessary to secure ample nourishment; although, even in point of economy, less quantity off a best joint of meat satisfies hunger more than a larger off inferior