4S POULTRY. Fig. 4- placed on the ground over the dish, will effectually prevent the fowls having anything to do with the food except to eat it, which they are quite at liberty to do through the perpendicular wires, two and a half inches apart. Many experienced poultry-keepers prefer to drive the wires into the ground, leaving them six inches high ; the trough is then put behind them, and a board laid over, leaning on the top of the wires. The effect of such a plan is precisely similar as regards the protection of the food, and its only disadvantage is, that the wires being always in the ground rather hinder the sweeping of the sJred. If the fowls have a field to run in they will require no further feeding till their evening meal of grain. Taking it altogether, no grain is more useful or economical than barley, and in summer this may be oc- casionally changed with oats; in winter, for the reasons already given, In- dian corn may be given every second or third day with advantage. Buckwheat is, chemically, almost identical in composition with barley, but it certainly has a stimulating effect on the production of eggs, and it is a pity it cannot be more frequently obtained at a cheap rate. We never omit purchasing a sack of this grain when we can, and have a strong opinion that the enormous production of eggs and fowls in France is to some extent connected with the almost universal use of buckwheat by French poultry-keepers. Wheat is generally too dear to be em- ployed, unless damaged, and if the damage be great it had better not be meddled with; but if only slightly injured, or if a good sample be offered of light “tail” wheat, as it is called, it is a most valuable food, both for chickens and fowls. “Sweepings” sometimes contain poisonous substances ; are invariably dearer, weight for weight, than sound grain ; and should never be seen in a poultry-yard. The mid-day meal of penned-up fowls should be only a scanty one, and may consist either of soft food or grain, as most convenient—meal preferably in cold weather. The regular and substantial diet is now provided for, but will not alone keep the fowls in good health and laying. They are omniv'oroiw in their natural state, and require some portion of animal food. On a wide range they will provide this for themselves, and in a small establishment the scraps of the dinner-table wall be quite sufficient ; but if the number kept be large, with only limited accommodation, it will be necessary to buy every week a few pennyworths of bullocks’ liver, which may be boiled, chopped fine, and mixed in their food, the broth being used instead of water in mixing ; these little tit-bits will be eagerly picked out and enjoyed. A very little is all that is necessary, and need not be given more than three times a week. If fowls be much over-fed wdth this kind of food the quills of the feathers become more or less charged with blood, which the birds in time perceive, and almost invariably peck at each other’s plumage till they leave the skin quite bare. There is yet another most important article of diet, without which it is absolutely impossible to keep fowls in health. We refer to an ample and daily supply of green or fresh vegetable food. It is not perhaps too much to say that the omission of this is the proximate cause of nearly half the deaths where fowls are kept in confine- ment ; whilst with it, our other directions having been observed, they may be kept in health for a long time in a pen only a few feet square. It was to provide this that we recommended the open yards, to be laid dowm in grass—the very best green food for poultry ; and a run of even an hour daily on such a grass plot, supposing the shed to be dry and clean, will keep them in vigorous health, and not be more than the grass will bear. But if a shed only be available, fresh vegetables must be thrown in daily. Anything will do. A good plan is to mince up cabbage-leaves or other refuse vegetables, and mix pretty freely wdth the soft food ; or the whole leaves may be thrown down for the fowls to devour; or a few turnips m.ay be minced up daily, and scattered like grain, or simply cut in tw'O and thrown into the run ; or if it can be got, a large sod of fresh-cut turf thrown to the fowls will be better than all. But something they must have every day, or nearly so, otherwise their bowels sooner or later become disordered, their feathers look dirty, and their combs lose that beautiful bright red cblour which will always accompany really good health and condition, and testifies pleasantly to abundance of eggs. The water vessel must be filled fresh every day at least, and so arranged that the birds cannot scratch dirt into it, or make it foul. The ordinary poultry-fountain is too well known to need description, but a rather better form than is usually made is shown in the annexed figure. The advantages of such a construction are that the state of the interior can be examined, and the vessel well sluiced through to remove the green slime which always collects by degrees, and is very prejudicial to health. Some ex- perienced breeders prefer shallow pans ; but if these be adopted they must be either put behind rails, with a board over, or protected by a cover, in the same way as the feeding trough already described. Fowls must never be left with- out water. During a frost, there- fore, the fountain should be emptied every night, or there will be trouble next morning. Care must always be taken also that snow is not allowed to fall into the drinking vessel. The reason has puzzled wiser heads than ours ; but it is a fact, that any real quantity of snow-water seems to reduce fowls and other birds to mere skeletons. It is well in winter to add to the water a few drops of a solution of sulphate of iron (green vitriol), just enough to give a slight mineral taste. This will, in a great measure, guard against roup, and act as a bracing tonic generally. The rusty appearance the water will assume is c;[uite im- material. Whilst the fowls are moulting, sulphate of iron should always be used ; it will assist them greatly through this, the most critical period of the whole year. A little hemp- seed should also be given every day at this season, at least to all fowls of value; and with these aids, and a little pepper on their food, with perhaps a little extra meat, or even a little ale to delicate breeds during the few weeks the process lasts, there will rarely be any lost. With hardy kinds and good shelter such precautions are scarcely necessary, but they cost little, and have their eftect also on the early recommencement of laying. In addition to their regular food it will be needful that the fowls have a supply of lime, in some shape or other, to form the shells of their eggs. Old mortar pounded is excellent ; so are oyster-shells well burnt in the fire and pulverised ; of the latter they are very fond, and it is an excellent plan to keep a “tree-saucer” full of it in theii yard. If this matter has been n^lected, and soft shell- less eggs have resulted, the quickest way of getting matters right again is to add a little lime to the drinking- water,