189 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. other. The slenderness of the horns is a great point, and is always looked for as an indication of good blood. The neck is slender, the back straight, loins long and of good width, with hip bones rather prominent. The limbs should be short, straight, and slender. The udder of this species is large in proportion, with the “milk-vein ” well developed. The colour of the Brittany cow is usually white and black, or all black, but sometimes yellow and red. In France, a mixture of red and white is most valued; but if ■other points are good, the colour is purely a matter of fancy. Take it altogether, this cow is just the one for a lady’s dairy, and almost fit to be a lady’s pet, being small, gentle, pretty, hardy, and productive. For the cottager it is equally adapted, having somewhat of the ability of the ass to forage for itself. The milk is not only plentiful, but of great richness. The small size is THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—III. MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME ^continuedfrom p. 152). Rabbits {Lepus ctiniailus) afford very useful food, being easily digested and very delicate. The wild rabbit is met with in great numbers in dry and sandy districts, such as those of Norfolk and Cambridgeshire. There are several varieties of tame rabbits, the flesh of which differs some- what according to the colour of the skin, that of the hare-coloured being darker and more full-flavoured than the others. Large quantities are imported from Ostend. Rabbits are also imported in tins from several parts of Australia. The Hare [Leptis iimidus) is classed with game, but as it belongs to the same family as the rabbit, we notice it here. It is found all over Europe, but is rarely imported. Having now very briefly mentioned the quadrupeds AYRSHIRE cow. the principal drawback to its perfection, as it makes it unsuitable for large dairies; but in cases where this objection does not apply, it may fairly be said that the breed can hardly be surpassed for milking purposes. The Suffolk is a polled or hornless breed, long cele- brated for its milking qualities. The hips are very high and prominent, and the loins usually inclined to be narrow; but this fault might be easily remedied by a little careful selection in breeding. The best milkers are veipf spare animals, with light and narrow heads. One animal has been known to yield thirty-two quarts per day, and twenty-four quarts is not an unusual quantity. The quality of the milk is not, of course, equal to that of some breeds which yield less, but it is very good, and makes excellent butter, though it is said to be inferior for cheese. There is a Welsh breed of black cattle, which often produces very good milkers. _ The Kerry cow is also well known for its milking quali- ties. It is rather small, but hardy, and has very much of the foraging ability of the Breton. The cow varies greatly, and so do its distinguishing points of excellence. The Kerry cow adds to its other merits that of being cheap. It can be easily obtained at almost any town where Irish cattle are imported. The cows we have described in this paper are especially good for dairy purposes, and as such are especially valu- able to the amateur or cottage farmer who has not sufficient fodder available for fattening cattle. which form part of our food supply, we will refer to those organs which are specially prepared for use. The tongues of the ox, cow, and reindeer are largely imported from Russia, Norway, South America, and Australia. From the three former countries they are generally sent cured and dried. The reindeer tongues are the most highly esteemed, being very full-flavoured, but those of the ox and cow imported from Australia appear to be but little regarded, although they are rich and full-flavoured. Kidneys in tins are also sent from Australia, as well as kidney soup. It is also almost certain that ox cheek enters into the composition of some of' the soups im- ported into England, and tripe is also sent here in sealed tins. Sausages are imported from France, Germany, and Italy, and are chiefly made from uncooked smoked meat mixed with herbs. The kinds best known are those which come from Arles, Bologna, Lyons, Modena, Wirtemberg, and other parts of Germany. Birds afford a rather considerable portion of our food supplies, and are of two^classes—the domesticated and the wild. The former include the common fowl, the turkey, goose, and duck; and the latter not only game, but the lark, pigeon, &c. The Commo7t Fowl {Callus domesticus') is not only of great importance for its flesh, but for its eggs. It is sup- posed to have had its origin in some species of wild fowl in India, but is now found domesticated nearly all over