POULTRY. 3c Sapping the preceding one. When the calf is reached, it will be necessary, in order to make the bandage fit pro- perly, to turn it down on the outer side of the limb each time it surrounds it ; and in order to do this neatly, the bandage should not be drawn tight until after the “ turn” has been made. It will assist in doing this neatly if the finger is laid upon the bandage to fix it at the point where the turn is to be made, as shown in the illustration (Fig. 11). Bleedmg Piles may depend upon plethora, and be salu- tary, if slight; but if severe, and much blood is habitually lost, medical advice should be sought, in order that they may be permanently relieved. To check the bleeding temporarily, the injection of cold water, or cold decoction of oak-baric, is the best remedy. Wounds.—The immediate treatment of ordinary wounds of a slight character has been sufficiently indicated in the sections relating to hcemorrhage. The after-treatment of a wound cannot be of too simple a character. Where there is no pain or discomfort about the wounded part, there can be no object in disturbing the first dressing applied, and this should be left undisturbed for from two to four days, according to the severity of the injury. It all has gone well, it is quite possible that a skin-wound may heal at once, and merely require the application of a piece of plaster over it, to protect it for a few additional days. If, however, it is found on carefully soaking off the original dressing that the wound is open and discharging, the best application will be the “ water-dressing.” This consists simply of a double fold of lint or soft linen suited to the size of the wound, and wetted with warm water, over which a piece cf oiled silk, slightly larger than the lint itself, is secured with a strap of adhesive plaister or a bandage. The lint should be changed twice a day, but the oiled silk will serve for many days in succession. If a simple wound fails to heal in a few days under this treatment, medical advice should be had recourse to. If on removing the first dressing, a wound is found to have its edges red and tender, and the part is painful, a poultice of bread or linseed-meal may be applied for a day or two before the water-dressing is begun. The vulgar dread of what is termed “proud flesh” may be mentioned here, simply for the purpose of stating that the so-called proud flesh is only a slight exaggeration of the ordinary process of healing and is of no moment unless it rises high above the general surface, in which case the occasional applica- tion of a piece of blue-vitriol (sulphate of copper) will soon reduce it to proper dimensions. POULTRY.—I. HOUSES AND RUN S. The first and most essential requisite to success in poultry-keeping is a thoroughly good house for the birds. This does not necessarily imply a large one nor a costly : we once knew a young man who kept fowls most profitably, with only a house of his own construction not more than three feet square, and a run of the same width, under twelve feet long. It means simply that the fowl- house must combine two absolute essentials—be both perfectly weatherproof, and well ventilated. With regard to the first point, it is not only necessary to keep out the rain, but also the wind—a matter very seldom attended to, but which has great influence on the health and laying of the inmates. The cheapest material is wood, of which an inch thick will answer very well in any ordinary English climate ; but if so built, the boards should either be tongued together, or all the cracks between them care- fully caulked by driving in string with a blunt chisel. Care should also be taken that the door fits well, admit- ting no air except under the bottom ; and, in short, every precaution taken to prevent draught. The hole by which the fowls enter, even when its loose trap-door is closed, should admit enough air to supply the inmates, and the object is to have but this one source of supply, and to keep the fowls out of all direct draught from it. For the roof, tiles alone are not sufficient, and if employed, there should be either boarding or ceiling under them ; otherwise all the heat will escape through the numerous interstices, and in winter it will be im.possible to keep the house warm. Planks alone make a good roofing. They may either be laid horizontally, one plank over- lapping the other, and the whole well tarred two or three times first of all, and every autumn afterwards; or per- pendicularly, fitting close edge to edge, and tarred, then covered with large sheets of brown paper, which should receive two coats of tar more. This last makes a very smooth, waterproof, and durable roofing, which throws off the water well. But, on the whole, we prefer board covered with patent felt, which should be tarred once a year. In the north of England, a house built of wood, unless artificially warmed, requires some sort of lining. Matting is often used, and answers perfectly for warmth, but un- fortunately makes a capital harbour for vermin. When used, it should only be slightly affixed to the walls, and at frequent intervals be removed and well beaten. Felt is the best material, the strong smell of tar repelling most insects from taking up their residence therein. If a tight brick shed offers, it will, of course, be secured for the poultry habitation. But let all dilapida- tions be well repaired. Ventilation is scarcely ever provided for as it should be, and the want of it is a fruitful source of failure and disease. An ill-ventilated fowl-house mttst cause sickly inmates ; and such will never repay the proprietor. This great desideratum must, however, as already observed, be secured without exposing the fowls to any direct draught; and for the ordinary detached fowl-houses, the best plan is to have an opening at the highest point of the roof, surmounted by a “lantern” of boards, put together in the well-known fashion of Venetian blinds. A south or south-east aspect is desirable, where it can be had ; and to have the house at the back either of a fire-place or a stable is a great advantage in winter; but we have proved by long experience that both can be successfully , dispensed with if only the two essentials are combined, of good ventilation with perfect shelter. We do not approve of too large a house. For half a dozen fowls, a very good size is five feet square, and sloping from six to eight feet high. The nests may then be placed on the ground at the back, where any eggs can be readily seen; and one perch will roost all the birds. This perch, unless the breed kept is small, had better not be more than eighteen inches from the ground, and should be about four inches in diameter. A rough pole with the bark on answers best : the claws cling to it nicely, and bark is not so hard as planed wood. By far the greater number of perches are much too high and small; the one fault causing heavy fowls to lame themselves in flying down, and the other producing deformed breastbones in the chickens—an occurrence disgraceful to any poultiy-yard. The air at the top of any room or house is, moreover, much more impure than that nearer the floor. Many prefer a movable perch fixed on trestles. In large houses they are useful, but in a smaller they are needless. If the perch be placed at the height indicated, and a little in advance of the front edge of the- nests, placed at the back, no hen- ladder will be required ; and the floor being left quite clear, will be cleaned with the greatest ease, while the fowls will feel no draught from th^door. Besides the house for roosting and laying, a shed is necessary, to which the birds may resort in rainy weather. Should the house, indeed, be very large, and have a good