229 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. for all the teats to be able to pass milk without difficulty. Dealers sometimes affirm this is no matter, but the fact is, that each teat is the outlet of an entirely distinct and separate secretory organ, so that a faulty one is equivalent to the absolute loss of its due proportion of milk. But probably the best criterion of a good milker is that pointed out by M. Guenon, which consists mainly in the appearance of the hair on the animal’s buttocks. The coat in this locality grows partly upwards and partly downwards, producing at the juncture a ridge or fringe of hair which is called technically the escutcheon. Now supposing that in different cows other characteristics appear equal, observation proves that in nearly every case an animal with a large escutcheon is a better milker than a cow with a small one. The veins called “ milk-veins,” which run along the belly, are not really connected with the supply of milk THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—V. FISH [continuedfrom p. 211). The Flounder {Pleuronectus flesus) inhabits both seas and rivers, but, except that obtained from <:he Thames- is but little esteemed. It is in season from January to March, and from July to Septerrmer. The Plaice [Pleuronectus platessa) is very abundant in our own seas, as well as in the Baltic and Mediterranean. It is inferior to the turbot, brill, and sole, but, being cheap, is much used by the poor. The best are caught between Folkestone and Hastings, and are known as “diamond plaice.” They feed on small fish and shell- fish, and are best about May and June. Halibut [Pleurotiectus hippoglossics) is by far the largest of our flat-fish, sometimes weighing nearly 300 pounds. Its flesh is very white, and, when small, is nearly WEST HIGHLAND COW. at all, but it nevertheless appears in practice to be of importance that they should be large and well developed. After all, it is sometimes found that a cow, bad by nearly every rule, turns out a capital milker, so that we again insist on careful inquiry or observation of the parentage. A cow is in her prime after her second calf, and remains profitable to the age of six or seven years. The chief means of judging the age is by the horns, which form a fresh ring at the root every year ; but only the third year’s circle is obvious to ordinary inspection. After six or seven years the produce rapidly diminishes, so that it is very im- portant to get rid of the animals when they reach that age. Farmers generally prefer to buy young cows when in calf; but in commencing a small family dairy it is less trouble, when possible, to obtain the animal after her calf has been separated. When old, the most profitable plan is fo dry her, fatten her in her own stall, and sell her for immediate slaughter ; she will then often realise nearly her original value ; but if this cannot be done, some pounds loss on this head is of course inevitable. It is in connection with this point that the importance will be seen of selecting a breed which has a good tendency to fatten, such as the Shorthorn ; for while a bony, angular, lean-looking cow will often give a good quantity of milk, if she will not fatten when finally dried, there must be a considerable loss on her sale, which might have been avoided by a bettep. choice. equal to turbot. It is an inhabitant of the northern and Mediterranean seas, and is in season in March and April. The Cod [Gadus callarus or morrhua) is found in immense shoals in the northern seas, and wanders about the coasts of Europe, but does not extend so far south as the Mediterranean. Its great resort is in the vicinity of the banks of Newfoundland, from whence it is brought to England in very large quantities. It is met with abun- dantly off Scarborough, and the north-east coast of Scotland, as well as on the Norfolk, Lincoln, and Irish coasts. The Doggerbank cod has a sharp nose, and its body is of a dark-brown colour, whilst the Scotch has a round, blunt nose, with a body of a light-yellowish ash- green. The usual size of good well-conditioned fish is about twenty pounds, but they have been met with weigh- ing nearly eighty pounds. Salted cod is largely imported from Newfoundland. It is in season all the year, except from March to July inclusive ; but as some fish spawn earlier or later than the majority, good fish can be obtained even in summer. The Haddock [Gadus ceglejinus') is an inhabitant of the northern seas of Europe, and, when large, is firm and full- flavoured. It is generally from twelve to fourteen inches in length, and weighs from two to three pounds. They are in best condition from October to January. Cured haddocks are much used, the best being brought from