236 CHILDREN'S DRESS. CHILDREN’S DRESS.—V. children’s clothing (continuedfrom /. 179). When the babe is short-coated it may either wear the little chemises it already has, joined up the back, or have a set of six new ones, made in fine cambric muslin, ten inches wide (doubled), allowing another half inch for the seams at the side. This is cut like Fig. 66,ten inches long, allowing another half inch for hems. Fold the muslin, so as to have it double on the shoulders at A A. Cut the slanting lines close beside the A a’s which divide the shoulders from the flaps. Cut the flaps apart, and hem them and the shoulders all round, button-holing the corners. But the seams should first be sewn and felled to the back and secured by a button in front. The little flannel petticoat is generally plaited at the waist and sewn on the body. The breadth of flannel is sufficient ; the length, guided by the size of the child, should be an inch less than the white petticoat. The prettiest flannels for infants are those sold by the yard, scalloped and em- broidered in blue or scarlet. Further on we give full details for making a flannel petticoat, which, with the exception that it is longer, is the same as the baby’s. We now pass on to clothing for children of two or three years old. The directions are equally applicable for those of a year and upwards, but are a little longer and larger, perhaps. First of all, for children of both sexes little flannel jackets of fine Welsh flannel are needed. The shape resembles Fig. 68, measuring eleven inches and a half with very fine cotton. The bottom may then be hemmed round a quarter of an inch deep. Make the sleeves, cutting them like Fig. 61, six and a half inches long, the straight side. Sew together at B and c. Then turn down and stitch the straight side, and sew and fell the other side into the chemise. At the corners of the flaps marked E and E sew on strings, which arc tied under the arm, the strings of the front to those at the back. A button is placed on the sleeve, and a button-hole for it is made at the point of the shoulder. This fastens over the little one’s many shoulder-straps, and keeps them neat.' Edge the sleeves with Valenciennes lace. Fig. 61 is a design for the chemise sleeve, to be made seven inches long. The short-coat stay body is illustrated by Fig. 63. It is made of fine jean or of stout fine linen, faced with twilled muslin, and quilted ; with a machine this is easy to do. The size is five inches deep and twenty-two long. It is then bound all round. The shoulder-straps are of the same material, a quarter of an inch wide and about four inches long, quilted and bound all round. They are sewn I (double) under the arms from A to A, and thirteen at the bottom from B to B. The length is nine inches. It is well, however, to make it three or four inches longer and three inches wider (double) each side. We measure from one which has been worn some time, and consequently shrunk. Run and fell the side seams from A to B, and the shoulder seams. Hem the top and bottom narrow, and also the armholes. When the shoulders wear out cut them away, and put broad tape straps an inch wide. Never use narrow straps for children, because they drag and cut the skin. It is well to have four flannels, for children often need a change, and these little things do not cut into much stuff. They should be worn all the year round, for they are even more needed in summer than winter. Next make six chemises. Very fine longcloth is generally used for such young children ; a shilling a yard is not too much to give. Some persons lay out one shilling and sixpence on it. Half a yard is more than I sufficient for one. Two yards and a half of thirty-two