142 THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN. next requirement is the putty, which we make as follows Take a lump of whitening, and cut or bruise it up quite fine, and then gradually add, a little at a time, linseed oil, which must be thoroughly incorporated and mixed by beating it until a stiff dough-like material is obtained. Remember, the more putty is mauled about the better it becomes ; and before using it should be kneaded with the hand, the warmth of which will render it still more pliable. If sticky, add more whitening; if too stiff, more oil. Take a lump of putty in the left hand, and with the putty-knife. Fig. 59—an ordinary oyster-knife answers the purpose—press in a thin layer of putty into the corner of the channel which is to receive the glass, and all round, drop in the pane and press evenly all round, and gradually force it well down until it will not go farther. N ow press more putty into the angle round the edge of the glass, and with the knife press and smooth it into a neat bevel, which must thoroughly adhere to both wood and glass. If either of these are wet it will not do so, on account of the fact that water repels oil. A previous coat of paint is necessary if the sash is of new wood, to make the putty adhere properly. Trim off the superfluous putty from both sides of the glass, and when thoroughly hard— which it will be in a few days—paint it of a dark colour outside, and grain to match inside. Some use white lead in their putty, but this is liable to the objection that it is very difficult to remove, in the event of future breakage, as it adheres to the wood, and becomes so very hard that in hacking out, the frame is often injured. For use in mahogany frames it is common to colour putty by adding red lead to tint as required. This does not set so hard as white lead. Putty is only about a penny a pound ; but we have given the directions for making it for cases where it is not readily procurable. THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN.—III. SLEEP. An infant in sound health will sleep almost continually during the first four or five weeks of its life. All that is necessary in the interval is to guard against accidents likely to create disturbance. Of these, injudicious feed- ing, deficiency of warmth, want of cleanliness, and over- fatigue, are the most liable to occur, converting the happiest period of development into a restless state of being, alike pernicious to parent and child. As though to indicate the necessity for this lengthy repose, the sense of hearing in a new-born babe is very dull. Ordinary conversation does not disturb an infant’s slumbers, although loud sudden noises may have that effect. In most instances, a baby does not appear to be conscious of sounds until about the fifth or sixth week of its existence. In the meanwhile, the necessary dis- turbances are confined to being suckled, ’’washed, and changed; for which duties occasion should be taken during the short wakeful intervals which happen when hunger prevails. So valuable is the repose which sleep affords through- out the whole period of early childhood, that too much pains cannot be taken to cultivate the habit from the earliest moment; for, be it observed, sleep is essentially a habit of our nature, and its recurrence depends chiefly on regularity of living and good health. At appointed times, and in certain places, infants should be encouraged to submit to sleep. Let them understand that, after food and exercise, it is time to go to bed ; and a lesson will have been learnt which will require no undue force to put into practice during the term of nursery life. Infants born in the winter, and during the cold months of spring, require to sleep at the mother’s side for the first few weeks ; according to one authority, “ for the first few months, as he requires the warmth of another person’s body, especially in winter.” But the strength of the child, as well as the weather, must carry their due weight in deciding the length of the time. Doctors differ on this point. At all events, it should lie alone when sufficiently strong to bear it; and then on a horsehair mattress. When sleeping with the mother it should not, on that account, be the oftenef suckled ; the mischief of the latter habit does not end with the over-taxed digestion of the child. Few mothers are able to bear the drain thus made upon their strength, and, in consequence, “ nursing ” has to be given up much sooner than would otherwise be necessary. The natural time for slumber, in very early life, is immediately after taking food. As the young of almost all creatures show this disposition, there can be no harrri in following the dictate. Opportunity, then, should be taken to lay the child in its bed, whether awake or not, after having been fed. A little later in life, when diges- tion is stronger, and the stomach is better able to dis- pose of a heavier meal, an interval is necessary between taking nourishment and going to sleep. The utmost vigilance is generally necessary to prevent the habit of sleeping in the nurse’s arms from being con- tracted. Most nurses enjoy a doze in front of the fire— a luxury well earned by, perchance, a broken night’s rest; but with infants no such necessity is felt. Still, if they are once allowed to feel the soothing influence of the fire’s warmth, combined with the soft and pleasant mechanical movement of the nurse’s knees, they speedily get rebellious against attempts to make them lie alone in the bassinet. In engaging a nurse, it is advisable to have it clearly understood that the babe is not to be nursed on the lap when asleep. To the above error, more than any other, maybe traced the wretched, sleepless nights which some parents are doomed to pass ; the bad habit of sleeping by the fire in the nurse’s lap is contested for. To the inexperienced mother there seems to be no help for it but to get up and pace the room until irresistible slumber shall have fallen on the eyelids of her wakeful infant. For the unhappy father the case is worse. He has possibly to encounter a hard day’s work the following morning, for which a disturbed night’s rest may bring positive incapacity. This constantly-complained-of grievance may be safely prevented by a little firmness at the outset. Children that are early accustomed to be put awake into their beds may be even heard to crow with delight at the fancies their small imaginations picture in the dimly-lighted chamber. The best trained child, however, will not return peacefully to its cot if the bedding be not perfectly dry and comfortable. After the child has been lifted out, “changed,” and fed, the pillow and mattress should be well shaken and, if necessary, wet blankets replaced by dry ones. Having put the infant back, the light should be partly screened or extinguished. These arrangements require to be made in a very methodical manner, and will only have to be repeated a few times to be fully understood by the child. If, at the outset, a cry of re- sistance should be heard when it is time to go back to bed, a wise mother will conceal herself from sight, and turn a deaf ear. Sooner or later this breaking-in will have to take place, and the longer it is delayed, the greater will be the trouble. In families where upper servants are kept, the nurse usually takes charge of the infant by night, only taking the babe to its mother’s room when requiring to be suckled, and returning to the nursery afterwards. About the age of three months, an infant does not usually require night-feeding more frequently than when the mother retires to rest, and again towards five or six in the morning. At this age the faculty of observation