133 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. as half a Liliputian lobster and half a periwinkle. The fore part of the body is crustacean, but at the waist it changes into a molluscous animal, having a soft tail, which it inserts into an empty whelk-shell. When all is quiet, the shell containing the hermit may be seen moving slowly along the sand between the rocks, but you mean farmers—that’s what we call them.” The tide by this time had come up beyond the line where the her- mits were to be found, so the boatman undertook to find some, to put them into a jar, and send them to London. There will be no difficulty in finding two or three common edible crabs {Cancer pagurus) such as that SUN-STAR. SERPULAv, the moment the sound of a foot is heard the cautious inhabitant darts back into the shell and remains motion- less, so that it is not easy to discover it. On one occasion the writer failed in his endeavour to find a hermit, but knowing them to be plentiful at Broadstairs, he continued his search till he met a native boatman, with whom he got into conversation. After THE CKA.B. listening to a yarn about wrecks and life-boats, and in- specting three medals which had been worthily bestowed upon him for saving life, an attempt was made to enlist his services in the search after the coveted Pagurus Bern- hardus. “ I dare say, now, you can tell me where I shall be likely to find a hermit crab.” “ Oh,” said he, “ you’ll find plenty of little crabs about, but I never heard them called by that name before.” •“ I mean those crabs that carry whelk-shells on their backs.” “ Oh, I know now. shown in our illustration. Those chosen should be small, say from an inch to an inch-and-a-half across. If larger, they prove troublesome to the anemones; if smaller, the anemones will devour them. The crab is an especially valuable creature in an aquarium, for he acts as a scavenger and appropriates odd morsels of food that may have been rejected by his more dainty neighbours. ACORN BARNACLES ON A LIMPET SHELL. Another recommendation is, that he will become exceed- ingly tame, and even allow himself to be petted. An edible crab from Broadstairs, not much larger than a man’s thumb-nail, became so tame that he would take food from the fingers, and though at first viewed as the least valuable in the collection, soon grew to be an especial favourite, and was rewarded by having a glass house furnished exclusively for his accommodation. After a while, however, he became shy, and fears were entertained