U9 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. i for such a purpose. In very cold weather the pelisse can I be worn over the frock, which is generally removed. :[ The modern fashion of pelisses, such as we have described, made in velveteen of various colours (dark rich ones being preferable to lighter tints, and more suitable, especially in London, for winter use), and handsomely I trimmed with fur, is an excellent: one, and is a style likely to return frequently to fashion. These fur borderings can be obtained at all prices and widths ; and will be found to contribute additional warmth. It must ever be re- j membered, in the clothing of an infant that, while the pressure of heavy cumbrous clothing is to be I avoided, as oppressive and fatiguing both to the child and the nurse who carries it, still, as long as it can take ! no sort of exercise, the blood circulates but feebly, and ' the heart being weak in its action, the vital heat must be kept up, both by warm food, and warm, though light, clothing. Ruby velveteen trimmed with grey imitation Chinchilla fur is a very handsome mixture. To match the pelisse, the head-dress for a girl is a little drawn bonnet of the same material, edged with the fur ; while for a boy a little round cap or hat is suitable—the shape for which may be purchased at any milliner’s—covered at home with the velveteen, and trimmed round the brim with fur, like the bonnet. Little out-of-door boots, trimmed in the same style with fur, are much to be recommended, and are very easily prepared for use by a skilful mother or nurse. Black velveteen frocks for wearing in the house may be orna- mented, with white embroidery laid on beneath the hems, and encircling the neck of the dress and sleeves, instead of fur. The embroidery can be taken off and washed frequently, when soiled, as it wears well; and it looks charmingly fresh and pretty. If the work be rather deeply vandyked it is necessary to tack down the points to the dress, which can be done without any chance of tearing it if the embroidery be not put on too tightly and scantily. Otherwise, the points of the work will turn up at once, and will have the appearance of being soiled when really clean. With these little dresses silver buttons may^be suitably worn. LIFE ASSURANCE.—III. It will be rather difficult to explain, in a popular manner, the principles involved in the computations by which the profits of a life assurance company are assessed, and from which are derived the large bonuses referred to in our last paper. Let us, however, see what we can do. By certain methods of calculation known to actuaries, an estimate is periodically made, usually every five or seven years, of the present value, at the time of the inves- tigation, of all the sums assured and bonus additions to the policies for which the company have made themselves liable, as well as of all annuities and other liabilities. Against this is set the value, also computed in present money, at the same date, of all the assets or funds in hand to meet such liabilities. The difference between these two amounts—both, observe, estimated in present money—is the surplus or profit of the company ; and supposing the estimates to have been made upon true principles of valuation, this surplus should be the sum that has been actually realised during thq preceding five or seven years. It would be quite out of place here to attempt any investigation or even explanation of what these true prin- ciples are. Indeed, even well-informed actuaries are far from being agreed on the subject, and a great variety of practice necessarily prevails among the different com- panies in connection with the periodical valuations. We shall confine ourselves to stating generally that as regards the liabilities, the estimate should be made upon a table that may fairly be considered to represent the mortality of the company under investigation ; and the rate of interest should be less, probably by i per cent., than the interest actually realised on the investments. The method of dealing with the “loading,” or per cent- age for profit added to the net rate of premium, should be indicated, to show that the valuation has not been made upon an erroneous and dangerous principle, by which the future profit is anticipated, instead of the actually realised profit during the preceding quinquennial or septennial term being shown. It is most important to bear in mind that if in the valuation of the future pre- miums the “ loading ” be included, the effect will be to treat as a present asset, available for division, what is, in fact, the reserve for future expenses of management, to provide for bonuses which, as we have before pointed out, the assured public will have, and to guard against possible fluctuations in the rate of interest and mortality ; for it will easily be seen that the one may diminish and the other increase from financial and sanitary conditions over which the most prudent company can have no con- trol. And as regards the assets, it should be made apparent that their present value is set down at such a sum only as they might reasonably be expected to realise if they had to be sold at the date of the estimate. To deal with this important subject, and with others bearing upon it in connection with the affairs of life assurance companies, in which so many thousands of persons are vitally interested, is admitted to be one of the most diffi- cult of the social problems of the day. The surplus or profit being arrived at by one or other of the methods adopted by actuaries, is, in the case of a mutual company, clivided among the policy-holders by an addition to the sum assured payable at death, which is termed a reversionary bonus, by a cash payment, or by an equivalent reduction in the annual premium payable, according to the arrangements of the society. In a proprietary company a certain proportion only— which may be two-thirds, three-quarters, or four-fifths—is divided among the recipients entitled to share therein, according to the provisions of the deed of settlement, while the remaining one-third, one-cjuarter, or one-fifth, as the case may be, goes to the proprietors or shareholders, to remunerate them for the use of their capital, which is an important security to the assured body. Another very difficult and much-discussed question relates to the principles of division as regards the relative rights of the different recipients. Each office will probably be prepared to show thac its own method of distribution is the only correct and equitable one. As, however, scarcely two offices adopt the same plan of division of the surplus among individual policy-holders, and as they cannot all be right, we can only counsel our readers, as they cannot alter the matter, to assure their lives in a good office, to take all they can get in the way of a bonus, and to hope that, to some extent at least, they will participate in the profits of the business in proportion to their several con- tributionsHo those profits, remembering that the chief thing to be considered on their parts is the security offered by the office of their choice, and the certainty that the sum contracted foi', and the bonus, whatever it may amount to, will be duly paid upon a claim arising. And now we shall probably be expected to define what we mean by the expression a “good office.” We can only reply briefly, that in our opinion an office that merits this appellation is one that will be able to give satisfactory in- formation on the following points, viz.:— I. Publication oj Accounts, comprising annual balance- sheets and valuation returns, stating the principles of valuation, and showing clearly the amount at risk, and the present or cash value of assets in hand to meet it, how invested, and at what rate of interest.