344 COURT MANUAL. COURT MANUAL.—V. ORDERS OF KNIGHTHOOD {continuedfrom p. 332). The Afost Ancient Order of the Thistle.— It is uncertain when this order was first instituted, but it was revived in 1687, by James II., and re-established in 1703 by Queen Anne. A statute passed in 1827 directs that the order shall consist of the sovereign and sixteen knights. The members are chiefly of the Scottish nobility, but the Queen has conferred the order upon each of her four sons, who, with herself and sixteen knights, constitute the order at present. The motto of the order is. Nemo me impune lacessit. The star, which is worn on the left side of the cloak or coat, is a St. Andrew’s cross embroidered in silver, with rays between the points of the cross ; a thistle in green and gold on a gold ground in the centre, surrounded with a green circle on which is the motto in gold letters. The badge or jewel, worn pendant to the collar, or to a dark green ribbon over the left shoulder and tied under the arm, is a figure of St. Andrew in gold enamelled with colours, bearing before him the cross in white, the whole surrounded with rays. The colour is of thistles alternating with sprigs of rue. The officers of the order are, the dean, secretary, lyon king of arms, and gentleman usher of the green ^ rod. The knights have the initials K.T. after their name or title. The Afost Illustrious Order of St. Patricks—This was instituted in 1783, and is especially for the nobility of Ireland. It consists of the sovereign, a grand master (the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland), and twenty-two knights; the Prince of Wales and the Duke of Connaught also belong to the order. The motto is, Quis separ- abit? The star consists of the red cross of St. Patrick on a white ground, bearing a trefoil with a crown on each leaf surrounded badge of the thistle. by a sky-blue circle inscribed with motto and date (1783), and encircled by eight rays of silver. The badge is of gold surrounded with a trefoil wreath, en- closing a blue circle bearing the motto and date, and having a centre like that of the star. The collar is of gold, and consists of roses, harps, and knots alternating, and having in the centre a crown surmounting a harp from which the badge is suspended. The officers consist of prelate, chancellor, registrar, secretary, genealogist, usher of the black rod, and Ulster king of arms. The ribbon of the order is sky-blue ; and the letters K.P. are added to the names or titles of members. The Alost Hotiourable Order of the Bath.—This was instituted in 1399, revived in 1725, and enlarged in 1815 and 1847. Its members are of three kinds: (i) knights grand cross ; (2) knights commanders ; (3) knights com- panions. To the first and second classes of this order foreigners may be attached as honorary members. The sovereign is the head of this as of the other orders, and the knights, &c., can be both military and civil. The motto is, Tria juncta in uno. The badge for military classes is a gold Maltese cross of eight points, in white enamel, a gold lion in each corner; in the centre the rose, thistle, and shamrock issuing from a sceptre between three crowns ; round these is a red circle with the motto of the order, and about this are two laurel branches issuing from a blue scroll inscribed Ich dien in gold letters. The first class wear this from a red ribbon over the right shoulder, the second class from the neck, and the third class from the button-hole. The collar, of gold, and weighing thirty ounces, consists of nine crowns, eight roses, thistle, and shamrock issuing from a sceptre, and in their proper colours, linked by seventeen gold knots enamelled white, and with the badge pendant. The star of the first class is formed of silver rays, and a gold Maltese cross ; in the centre within the motto, branches of laurel, &c., as in the badge. The civil knights of the first class retain the old badge and star of the order. The star is eight-pointed, of silver, aird in the centre three crowns upon silver, inclosed by a red circle and the motto. The badge is of gold; rose, thistle, and shamrock issue from a sceptre between three crowns, round which is the motto. Civil knights com- manders wear a similar badge, but smaller, hung round the neck from a red ribbon. The civil companions wear the same, but still smaller, from a red ribbon at the button-hole. The star of knights commanders is a silver cross-patee with a centre like that of the grand cross, but with no Maltese cross upon it. Civil knights commanders have a like cross for star, but without laurel wreath and scroll, and the words Ich dien. The officers of the order are dean, Bath king of arms, registrar and secretary, and gentleman uslier of the scarlet rod. The members are styled respectively G.C.B., K.C.B., and C.B. The Alost Exalted Order of the Star of India.—This was instituted in 1861, and has been since enlarged. It consists of the sovereign, 205 ordinary members or companions, and honorary members. There-, are three classes: (i) grand com- manders, (2) commanders, and (3) companions. The Viceroy of India is grand master. The star of gold is radiated. In the centre is a five-pointed star of diamonds, round which is a light-blue ribbon, tied, and bearing the mottOj, Heavetis Light our Guide, in- diamonds. The collar is com- posed of the lotus, palm branches, and red and white roses, and an imperial crown in the centre. The badge is an onyx cameo of Her Majesty in an ornamented oval, with the motto, and surmounted by a diamond star. The ribbon, of blue with a white stripe near the edges, is worn from the right shoulder to the left side. There is also a mantle of blue satin, lined with white, fastened with white silk cord, with blue and silver tassels, and having on the left side the star of the order. The knights grand commanders are designated by the letters G.C.S.I. ; knights commanders by K.C.S.I., and com- panions by C.S.I. The officers are secretary and registrar. The Alost Distmguished Order of St. Michael and St. George.—This was instituted in 1818, enlarged in 1868 and 1877, in favour of the colonies and natural-born subjects of the Crown who have held high office there.. It consists of a grand master, knights grand cross, knights commanders, and companions. The star of a knight grand cross is of silver, seven rayed, and with small rays of gold alternating. Over all is the red cross of St. George. In the centre is St. Michael encountering Satan, within a blue circle inscribed with the motto, Aus- picium melioris cevi. The collar is of alternate lions and Maltese crosses, and the letters S.M. and S.G.; an im- perial crown in the centre over two winged lions, each holding a book and seven arrows. Two similar lions are at the opposite end of the collar. The whole is of gold, except the crosses, which are of white enamel. The badge is a gold cross of fourteen points, enamelled white, with gold edges ; on one side in the centre is St. Michael and Satan, and on the other side St. George and the Dragon, within blue circles inscribed with the motto. The cross, surmounted by a crown, is worn by grand crosses to the collar, or to a blue ribbon with a scarlet BADGE OF ST. PATRICK.