POULTRY. 32 To those who can give up a portion of their garden, the plan, Fig. 2, of a poultry-yai'd can be confidently recommended. It represents, with very slight modifica- tion, our own present accommodation ; and having tested it by experience, we are prepared to say that it is not only more convenient, more simple, and more cheaply erected than any plan on a similar scale we have seen, but, with the addition of a lawn on which the chickens may be cooped, is also highest perfection any single variety of either ordinary or “fancy” fowls. The space re- quired in all is only twenty-five by thirty- five feet. If more can be afforded, give it, by all means ; but we have found this, with very moderate care, amply sufficient, and we believe it will meet the requirements of a larger class of readers than any other we are acquainted with. This plan, as will be seen, comprises two distinct houses, sheds, and runs, with a sepa- rate compartment for sitting hens. The nests are placed on the ground at the back of the houses, and the perches, as before re- commended, a foot in advance of them, and eighteen inches high. The holes by which the fowls enter open into the sheds, which are netted in, so that in wet weather they can be altogether con- fined. In dry weather the shed is opened to give them liberty. The fencing should be boarded up a foot high, not only to pre- vent rain splashing in, but to keep in when necessary young chickens, which would otherwise run out be- tween the meshes. A walk in front of the sheds should be the open runs covered adapted to rearing in the ELEVATION Fig. A A Roosting and laying houses. B B Fenced-in covered runs. C C Shed and run for sitting hens. D D Grass runs. gravelled, and the remainder of with sand, or they may be laid down in grass, which, if well rooted first, will bear the fowls upon it for several hours each day, but should be renewed in the spring by sowing when needed. The runs should be enclosed with wire netting, two inches mesh, which may be conveniently stretched on poles, ij inch square, driven two feet into the ground, and placed five feet apart. The height of the fence depends on the breed chosen. Cochins or Brahmas are easily retained within bounds by netting a yard high ; for moderate-sized fowls six feet will do ; whilst to confine game, Hamburgs, or bantams, a fence of eight or nine feet will be found necessary. The netting should be simply stretched from post to post, without a rail at the top, as the inmates are then far less likely to attempt flying over. We do not like to see fowls with their wings cut. If their erratic propensities are troublesome, open one wing, and pluck out all the first or flight feathers, usually ten in number. This will effectually prevent the birds from flying, and as the primary quills are always tucked under the others when not in use, there is no external sign of the operation. The holes by which the fowls enter the houses should be fur- nished with trap-doors, that they may be kept out at pleasure whilst either part is being cleaned. Each house must also have a small window. Having a shed at the side, ven- tilating lanterns will not be necessary, as the end will be at- tained by boring a few holes in the wall be- tween the house and shed, towards the highest part of the roof. The compart- ment for the sitting hen may be walled in at the front or not; for ourselves, we prefer it open. Her run may also be covered over or not, at pleasure. To have it in the middle, as here shown, we con- sider most convenient. Such a yard pos- sesses many advan- tages. Two separate runs are almost neces- sary if the rearing of chickens forms part of the plan of proceeding. It is also in some re- spects convenient to keep two different breeds, as one may supply the deficiencies of the other; and many persons consider it advisable to separate the cocks and hens, ex- cept during the breed- ing season, believing that stronger chickens are obtained thereby. The need of the separate compart- ment for the sitting hens is further insisted on hereafter, but it has also other uses ; being, when not so entployed, often very convenient for the temporary reception of a pen of strange birds, for which there may be no other accommodation. Each run, as here described, will accommodate from six to ten fowls, according to their size and habits ; and we close this paper with one very simple but important stipulation, which is a sine qua non in rearing poultry: fowls should not be kept unless proper and regular attention can be given to them ; and we would strongly urge that this needful attention should be as far as possible personal. PLAN 2,0 3,0 SCALE a a Nests. b b Perches. cc Holes for fowls to enter.