194 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART. a vase or basket artificial moss will be needed ; for the latter about half a pound. Fill a basket-well closely, and heaped up with a rise in the centre. A vase must be filled nearly to the top. This is to hold the flowers in their places. The moss must be well pulled out, and should be two parts green and one part brown. French tissue-paper must be used for flowers. Common tissue will not crimp or goffer well, nor is it sufficiently transparent and bright hued. The French paper seems dear—from ad. to 6d. a small sheet—but many roses can be made out of sixpennyworth of the paper. The pink sheets are about 6d. each. You can also buy variegated sheets of pink, yellow, buff, and red and yellow-streaked sheets, made up admirably for roses, and tulips, and crocuses, imitating nature very closely. A large square pincushion, with only a calico cover, is necessary. To make the Cement.—Take an ounce of gum traga- canth, and a little bit of alum the size of two peas. Put this in a wide-mouthed small bottle, or small pomatum- pot. Mix a little flour and cold water. Pour it on the gum, and let it stand in the oven till dissolved, assisting it if necessary by kneading it with a piece of wood. Melt it to a strong jelly that will not harden for a few weeks. One of the flower wires, eight inches long, is the best thing to use for applying the cement. To make a Cabbage Rose, three sheets of three different shades of deep pink paper are needed, and one of green ; also a very little cotton wool, and a reel of green sewing silk. There are five different-sized leaves used for a cabbage- rose, and a square piece. Take a little piece of wool, and covering it with the square of paper, make it into a little ball, and tie it round. You will need two more of these. Then begin to cut out the petals. Fold the paper so as to cut eight each time. If the paper is folded too thick it can never be cut well, but on the contrary the scissors are spoiled. Out of the darkest shade cut Figs. 3 and 4, nine of each, and nine of Fig. 5 in the middle shade. These petals are to be crimped, which is done by laying one at a time on the cushion, and also bring them down lengthways with the pincers, which are held between the fingers, bringing the prongs nearly together, and pinching up the paper between them, so as to make the irregular crisp-looking creases noticed in the heart of a rose. The marks must be very strong, and the leaves quite crimped up, working the strokes from A to B, Fig. 6, which represents Fig. 6 when crimped. The pincers are held in the right hand, and the petal on the cushion by the left. .Stick together with cement by their narrow ends three petals of Fig. 4, three of Fig. 5, and three of Fig. 6, as shown in Fig. 8. Make two more groups in the same way, which will use up all the petals you have. Cut out in the middle shade of paper nine petals like Fig. 10. Lay each separately on the cushion, and with the second-sized goffer rub it gently, pressing it in the middle till it curls all round the bowl of the goffer ; then curl it still smaller with the third-sized goffer, and turn back the extreme edges very slightly with the point of the pincers. Put three of these leaves on the outside of each of the three groups of leaves. Then with the cement fix one of each of the three groups of leaves upon one of the three balls shown full size in Fig. 9. Cut off next three more petals of Fig. 3, three of Fig. 4, and three of Fig. 5, and crimp them as you did the first. Cement these together in three little groups, one of Fig. 3, one !• ig. 4, and one Fig. 5. Then tie the three little balls, with the three groups of leaves upon them, to the top of a wire stem, eight inches long. Be sure it is tied on very firml)-. If the top of the wire has a tiny crook made, it will be more secure. Tie the balls so that the groups of leaves attached form a close and well-shaped heart for the rose. The balls must be entirely hidden by the petals. Then in the three spaces between these three groups cement the three little groups of three petals which you have just crimped. Next cut out twenty-four petals like Fig. 10. Goffer them on the cushion, using the largest and the second goffer to sixteen of them, and the third goffer to the other eight. Curl them all back at the edges with the point of the pincers. Hold the rose in your hand downwards, and put on, by touching the lower point of each leaf with cement, the eight leaves first, and then the other sixteen of the twenty-four, laying them regularly all round, one a little over the other. Now leave the rose to dry, having finished by cementing the base well. The reason why it is best to cut out a few petals at a time and place them on, and then return to the task of making more petals, is because, if the first leaves are yet w'et when the next are applied, they will all come off in patches before the flower is finished, and spoil it. The calyx must be added as soon as the rose is dry. The easiest and best way is to buy rose calyxes by the dozen. If, however, the amateur wishes to make them herself, she must purchase a sheet of bright pale-greeri paper, not tissue, and cut out the calyx like Fig. n, keep- ing the spikes as sharp and natural as possible. It must then be covered thickly with cement and left to dry. Afterwards it must be united by fastening the side A B to C D by the little bit seen projecting from a to E. Let this dry. Then thoroughly cement the inside, put in a very little wool, enough to fill the cup of the calyx, and slip it up the wire with the part from A to c meeting the swell of the petals to which the cement is attached. If the petals drop too much, the spires of the calyx may be fastened to them with a touch of cement to support them. Cut a long strip of green tissue-paper, half an inch wide, and very even. Gum it slightly from A to B, and attach this to the calyx. Hold the wire stem in one hand, and by passing it nimbly through the fingers of the other hand roll the paper tightly and smoothly all down the stalk. Leave the flower upside down, to dry completely. It is best to place it in a box till the next day. Then with the points of the goffers set and turn the rose petals and curl them any way you like, to imitate nature as closely as possible. If the flower is for a basket, use it as it is. For a vase, it had better be made into a sprig, by adding a bud with a leaf to it, tying the stems of these to the rose stem with the green silk, or fine wire, and covering it again with paper. Then lower down on the rose stem add another leaf in the same way, and again cover th^t join with green paper. Bend the stems gracefully and naturally, and bend the leaves also. Leaves are never made in the paper. They must be bought, which they can be for the purpose, in dozens or half-dozens, and are made of muslin. Vary them in colour as much as possible. These roses may be made in any shade of pink, from a pale tint to a deep rose colour. Yellow roses can also be formed from the same pattern, but are better cut a mere shade smaller in every petal. The yellow need three shades—the lightest for the petals Figs. 3 and 4; the middle for Figs. 5 and 8 ; and the darkest for Fig. 10. For a damask rose cut the patterns visibly smaller. To cut the patterns, first trace the diagrams from the Household Guide on any thin paper; cut them out, and cut thin card patterns from them. Having made a set for the pink cabbage-roses, mark them in ink “ cabbage rose." Cut another set, and make them slightly smaller, and label them “ yellow rose.” Then another set, cutting them away all round the edge decidedly smaller, and label “ damask rose.” If you also put on them how many petals of each are wanted, you have your patterns ready for use. The yellow and the damask rose are both made with this difference to the cabbage-rose, that in the centre of each there is a heart of stamens and pistils, and the petals made into little groups as before described, are attached