336 MARKETING. MARKETING.—II. Mutton (Fig i).—I. Leg. 2. Shoulder. 3. Breast. 4. Chump end of loin. 5. Best end of loin. 6. Best end of neck. 7. Scrag end of neck. 8. Head. A leg of mutton with a portion of the loin attached forms a haunch of mutton. The loin, not divided along the back, is called a saddle of mutton. In choosing mutton it must be remembered that it is of various kinds as well as qualities. Some sorts run much larger than others, with a corresponding addition of fat and bone, and often a coarser texture. The meat of the black-faced sheep is excellent, when well fed. Welsh mutton is small and highly esteemed. Forest sheep make good meat, and often appear in the London markets. The Dorset mutton is of medium quality. The Ryeland sheep is small, and produces very fine meat. Leices- ter mutton is large-boned, but when crossed with the Cotswold variety is much improved. South Down mutton is remarkably good; and so is the ■small Scotch mutton, although it is apt to be lean. As, however, purchasers ■cannot always ascertain what particu- lar sort is offered, they must usually be ■guided by size and appearance. Gene- rally speaking, wether mutton is to be preferred: if in good condition, lean will be of a deep red, with a close grain, the fat white and not very hard. Ewe mutton is paler in the lean and closer in the grain. Young mutton is tender and elastic to the touch, but old mutton feels hard, remains wrinkled when pinched, and has fat rather clammy and sticky. The fat of young mutton can easily be separated, ■while that of old meat is stringy and skinny. The leg of South Down mutton is an economical joint whether for boiling or roasting ; but in selecting it or any other leg of mutton, preference should be given to such as is thick in the thigh and short in the shank. The haunch of Welsh mutton is much better than the fore-quarter. Loin of mutton is not usually economical, owing to the quantity of fat, but it is very nice, •either roasted or in chops. When the fat •of mutton is yellow and watery avoid the meat. A leg of wether mutton is known by a lump of fat on the inside of the thigh. Shoulder of mutton is most economical when roasted and eaten cold. A haunch or leg of mutton for present use is best if it has hung a few days. Lmnb (Fig. 2).— i. Leg. 2. Shoulder. 3. Breast. 4. Chump end of loin. 5. Loin. 6. Neck—best end. 7. Neck—scrag end. 8. Head. Lamb is often merely divided into fore-quarters and hind-quarters. A fore-quarter consists of a shoulder with part of neck and breast. A hind-quarter consists of a leg and loin. What is called the target of lamb is the ribs from which the shoulder has been removed. The joints of lamb var>- in size like those of mutton, according to the breed and age of the animal. This meat, like veal, is best cooked fresh. Its freshness may be easily ascertained by the colour, feeling, and smell. For a fore-quarter the old test is, that if the vein in the neck is of a fine blue colour, the meat is good, but if greenish or yellow the meat is stale. For a hind- quarter, respect must be had to the kidney and the knuckle : if the kidney emits a faint and unpleasant smell, or if the knuckle joint is flexible, the meat is not good. Lamb is more expensive than mutton, and although highly esteemed is less nutritious. It may be added that the eyes of a recently killed lamb are plump and bright. Pork.—Of pork there are many varieties. In choosing, as a rule, we should select the meat which is young. not too large, and not overburdened with fat. Dairy- fed pork has fine white fat, pale and smooth lean, and thin, smooth, and clean rind. It is usually rather small, and a leg ought not to weigh above six or seven pounds. Whenever the joints run large, with coarse- grained lean and fat to match, the meat will be most likely hard and insipid. In all cases the rind must be thin, the lean tender, and the fat of a fine white colour. Old meat is harsh and even hard to the touch, and generally has a thick firm rind, and lean somewhat dark in colour. Fresh pork is cool and smooth to the touch ; but stale meat is clammy and apt to look of a greenish tint in places. The first part to turn is the knuckle. What is called measly pork is diseased meat, and on all accounts to be avoided as very unwholesome. It is commonly sold to the poor, at a low price, by unprincipled dealers. Tainted pork is objectionable and injurious. Pork is often sold salted; and the pur- chaser must be careful to see that it is in a sound condition. Unsaleable meat is sometimes salted to save it, but it is always an abomination; and so is meat which has been spoiled in the salting, as often occurs in warm weather. The extent to which pork is consumed bythe industrial classes at all seasons, renders it important that the rules for ascer- taining its quality should be well known. In selecting baco7i the purchaser will observe several things. He will not find it economical to buy bacon from huge animals with a great depth of fat and little lean in proportion ; nor from large underfed animals with too little fat and too much skin and bone. Smaller sized and well-fed young meat is best. The fat of this will be firm, and have a slight pink tinge, but feel greasy to the touch ; the lean will be bright and stick well to the bone, and the rind will be thin. Rusty or reasty bacon will show yellow in the lean, if not in the fat; and will, of course, be ill-flavoured. Ha)iis are of several kinds. Those from Westphalia are dry, and hard, and covered with spice, not nice to look at, and requir- ing to be soaked many hours in cold water before cooking. When properly cooked, however, they are very good. Other foreign hams are apt to be coarse and large-boned; but when smaller and well cured they are often excellent. English hams vary veiy much. Some are small and dried rapidly after very slight salting. Others are large, thoroughly salted, and slowly dried. The first will not keep so well as the latter, but for present use in small families they are preferable. A ham which is smooth in the rind and short in the hock is most economical and the best eating. Long-legged animals arc not to be relied upon either for hams or anything else. After selecting a ham of proper size and shape, its sweet- ness must be tested. The usual method of doing this is by thrusting a knife under the bone which appears on the fleshy side of the ham. If the knife comes out clean and has a sweet smell, the ham is sound, but if smeared and with an unpleasant flavour it is bad. This operation requires to be performed with some care, otherwise it may be found that the meat is slightly tainted after all. Ve7iiso)t.—This is chiefly tested by the fat. If the meat is young the fat will be thick, clear or bright, and close ; but if old the fat will be tough and coarse. Venison first begins to change at the shoulders and haunches, into which a knife must be thrust. If the meat is good the knife will come out clean and smell sweet; but if bad the knife will be discoloured, and smell rank'