120 COOKERY. left in the pan with flour and water, season with pepper, allspice, and vinegar, and pour it over them for gravy. Sliced Calf’s or Sheep's Liver Fried—Cut up the liver into small thin slices. Cut some onions crosswise into very thin slices. Brown them in a stewpan with a lump of butter; dust in a little flour; stir in enough boiling water to cook them tender; season with pepper and salt. In your frying-pan fry the sliced liver in butter, taking care not to do them too much. Grate a little nutmeg over them, and add a dash of vinegar; then put them with the onions in the stew-pan ; mix them together; let them stew gently for five or six minutes, and serve with the gravy poured over them, which may be further thickened, if too greasy, with a little flour and hot water. Calf’s Liver Cheese.—Chop fine a couple of pounds of calf’s liver, half a pound of beef suet, half a pound of white bacon, and a few mushrooms, if there happen to be any. Mix these well together, then add to them three or four good-sized onions chopped and browned in butter in the frying-pan, six egg-yolks, a small glass of brandy, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and lastly, stir in the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth. Line the bottom and sides of a well-tinned iron saucepan with very thin slices of white bacon; put in the minced liver, &c., and cover with thin slices of bacon. Close the saucepan tightly with a lid on which you can heap hot cinders or ashes. Cook over a very gentle fire. It does very well on a hearth where wood is burnt, with the hot ashes piled round it. Let it remain in the saucepan till quite cold and stiff. To turn it out, set the saucepan a minute or two in boiling water; place the dish over it, and then reverse it. Bulloc/^s Heart h la Mode.—Split open the heart at its thinnest side, without cutting it in two ; take out the arterial cartilage and the coagulated blood left in it; fill its inside with bacon cut into dice, seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Tie it round with string into its original shape. Stew it in a saucepan, covered with broth, and half as much cider, if it comes handy; add a bunch of sweet herbs, ancf as many onions and carrots as there is room for. When it has simmered gently full four hours, lay it on a dish; put the carrots and onions round it; let the liquor boil a few minutes longer to thicken, then pour some of it over the heart, and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. If you like it, you may flavour the latter with mushroom catchup and a little red wine, which will give the heart the flavour of hare. Bullock's Kidney.—This is often cut up into dice, and made into kidney pudding, as we have previously directed {p. 66) for beef pudding. The crust helps it out very well; but it is less agreeable cold, and the kidney is very apt to be hard. As a change from this, cut up the kidney into very thin slices, dust them plentifully with flour, and season with pepper and salt. Put a lump of butter into a sauce- pan ; as soon as it begins to melt, put your sliced and seasoned kidney to it; add a little cold water, just enough to prevent burning ; if you live in a cider country, use cider instead. You [may add a table-spoonful of catchup. Keep shaking and stirring over a gentle fire without ever letting it come to a boil. If it does, your kidney will be hard and leathery. The secret of success consists in not letting it cook too much, too fast, nor too long. Lay bits of toasted bread round the edge of a dish. With a spoon put the kidney in the middle; give the gravy a boil up, and pour it over it. Some cooks would garnish with sliced lemon, and stew in red wine, or even in champagne; for the latter, the cider is not a bad substitute, and is often more obtainable. If any is left, let it be warmed up over a very gentle fire. Tripe Normandy Fashion.—Wash your tripe, scald it; wash it again, scald it again; scrape it, wash it, re-scrape, and re-wash it in several waters; then cut it in pieces, and put it to cook in a boiler with chopped bacon, carrots, onions, garlic, cloves, thyme, bay-leaf, parsley, and pepper- corns. Moisten with white wine or cider, and the fat skimmed from the pot-au-feu, or family soup-kettle. Instead of these, you may use good soft water, setting on cold. Let it simmer gently for about eight hours (we say, till tender, which will probably come to pass in a little less time). Before cooking tripe to serve it in any way, cut it into neat pieces two or three inches square. Tripe has been recommended to invalids, stewed with beef, seasoned to taste, and with thickened gravy poured over it. It may also be stewed with onions and milk, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. It can be fricasseed brown with fried onions and gravy, and the flavour be heightened, just before serving, with allspice and tarragon vinegar. In all these cases the tripe must have long stewing, unless it has been done very nearly enough by the regular tripe-dresser of whom it was bought. One of the nicest ways of cooking tripe so prepared is to> fry it in batter in the way already directed for other things. It then requires no sauce whatever ; if any is wished for, make it with water, flour, butter, a little vinegar, and still less mustard. Lady Harriet St. Clair, in her “ Dainty Dishes,” gives three recipes for tripe, of which we borrow two, on ac- count of their excellence and simplicity. Stewed Tripe.—Select two pounds of double tripe well cleaned and blanched, cut in pieces of rather less than a quarter of a pound each; put in a clean stew-pan with a pint of milk and one of water, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, eight middle-sized onions carefully peeled. Set it on to boil, which it should do at first rather fast, then simmer till done, which will be in rather more than half an hour. Put it into a deep dish or tureen, and serve with the milk and onions. Tripe d. la Lyonnaise (Lyons Fashion). — When any cold tripe remains, cut it in thin slices about an inch square, and wipe it very dry. Mince two onions, put some butter (in the proportion of three ounces to a pound of tripe) into a frying-pan with the onions. When they are about half done put in the tripe, and let all fry for about ten minutes ; season with pepper and salt, and three table- spoonfuls of vinegar to each pound of tripe. Serve very hot. This is a favourite dish in Lyons with all classes. Besides these ways, French cooks serve tripe broiled in oiled paper, bread-crumbed, white, with sauce piquante; with sauce Robert, au gratin, or browned in the oven, like fricasseed fowl; in flat sausages after chopping, with skate sauce, like ox-palates; Proven9al way, plenty of garlic and oil; Milanese way, with grated cheese; Italian way, stewed with macaroni, &c. &c. Neat’s Foot or Cow Heel.—The feet are mostly sold so nearly cooked as only to require a warming-up ; but the substance of neat’s feet consists of so little else besides gelatine and bone (the oil, strong in flavour, being extracted in their preparation), that we consider them more fit to enrich other dishes—soups, stews, fricassees, &c.— than to be served as a dish by themselves. Neat’s Foot with Parsley Sauce.—Warm up or finish cooking your neat’s foot in as little water as may be. When ready to serve, make sauce with a little of the liquor, flour, butter, chopped parsley, and a dash of vinegar. Pour this over the foot, and serve. Breast of Pork with Rice (Economical).—Wash and scald a pound of rice. Wash and cut up into dice half or three-quarters of a pound of breast of pork, fat and lean together ; then add to it a little butter in a stew-pan. When nicely browned, add the rice; stir in gradually three pints of water or broth and a little pepper. Let it stew for five-and-twenty minutes, birring now and then, to keep it from sticking to the bottom. When done, serve it in a heap in the middle of a dish. A few boiled or fried sausages laid round it make a very pleasant addition.