220 COOKERY. stew till tender on a gentle fire, but not one minute longer. Take them out one by one, with a large spoon, without breaking them, and arrange them in the dish in which they are to appear. Let the juice boil a few minutes longer, to reduce it, remove the lemon-peel and cloves ; when almost cold pour it over the apples. Added hot it might crack the dish if of glass or china. Invalids find apples so stewed much more tempting than if mashed to a Jam. Dried Normandy Pippins—K convenient resource in invalid cookery, because they store well, and are to be had when apples with their skins whole are not. These, to turn out good, should be previously steeped in tepid water— if all night so much the better, if not, several hours. The time they take to stew will much depend on the length of their steeping. For stewing use the water in which they have been steeped, with the addition of more if necessary. .Season, flavour, and serve as in the preceding recipe for stewed apples, applying the fire heat with even greater gentleness. Dried Apples {not Normandy Pippins).—The kind most in use for this preparation (for which Norwich has long been celebrated) is the Norfolk biffin {bean _fin), a very late, hard-fleshed apple. Drying apples in this way is a work of patience, and is a specialty with certain confectioners. The apples, by pressure between weighted boards and the slow but long-continued application of heat, become perfectly circular cakes of dark brown flesh, enclosed in an unbroken skin. Apple Jam.—Peel, core, and quarter apples ; flavour as above ; put them into a stew-pan with enough water to keep them from burning, continue stirring and mashing with a fork until the whole mass is reduced to a smooth pulp. You may then either stop and put the jam into pots for pre- sent use—indeed, this is never intended for keeping—or, by slow evaporation, you may bring it to such a thickness that, put into shapes, it will stiffen when cold and so turn out an apple cheese. Apple Jelly.—Peel, quarter, and cut up into small pieces a quantity of pippin apples. Put them in a stew- pan with a teacupful of water. When cooked to a mash put them in ajelly-bag, and let them drain all night ; they must not be squeezed. Next morning put the juice in a saucepan, taking care not to put the sediment into it, in order that the apple juice may remain clear ; put in suffi- cient sugar to bring it to the sweetness of currant jelly. Boil until it will jelly when cold, and put away in pots or glasses. Orange Apple Jelly {Excellent).—When the apple juice, as above, is put into the saucepan to be boiled down with the sugar, throw in slices of orange with the peel on, and the pips removed ; let all cook together. On potting it off let each pot of jelly contain a slice or two of orange. Both of the above are delicate sweet relishes to eat with bread. Blackberry Jam.—For people living in the country in the neighbourhood of woods, although the fruit varies in abundance with the year, blackbeiTy jam will be one of the cheapest. Its flatness and insipidity may be relieved by the mixture with it of a portion of apples, which will raise it to the rank of a second-rate jam. Any brisk- flavoured apple will do, but the Wellington or Dumelow’s seedling is particularly recommended for the purpose. Several jams and preserves are the better for being mixed, and the mixture often assumes quite a character of its own. Thus apple and orange jelly (just given) is an excellent compound; rhubarb and strawberry jam also combine advantageously. Strawberry Jam.—With jams and other fruit preserves, exactly as with wines, there arc good, indifferent, and bad years. In a cold, wet, and sunless summer, it is difficult to make jams with the real perfume, although they may be made to keep by longer boiling, and an extra allowance of sugar. On the other hand, in fine summers, although it is false economy to diminish the prescribed allowance of sugar, the high flavour and firm- ness of the jam will testify to the influence of the genial season. In all cases the fruit should be gathered after one, two, or three dry days ; never after a spell of rain. Over-ripe fruit is as much to be avoided as under-ripe. The former is vapid, has lost its flavour, and is often tainted with bitterness and the elements of decay. Gather your strawberries on a sunshiny afternoon, handle them gently, pick only handsome, well-ripened specimens, and do not commit the mistake of supposing that “ any fruit is good enough for jam.” Pick them from the stalks with equal care, the object being that the preserved straw- berries shall remain whole. In this state they will be much more sightly in sweet omelettes, lay tarts, with creams, &c. Weigh your strawberries, and for every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar, well broken up into small pieces or coarse powder. Put a layer of strawberries at the bottom of your stew- pan, then a thin layer of sugar, then more strawberries ; and so on till all are in the pan. Set it on a gentle fire. Shake and stir with a spoon to prevent burning, taking care not to break the fruit. As scum rises, remove it till there is no more. Let the jam boil, with all due pre- caution, from thirty to forty minutes, or even a little longer, according to the proportion of moisture contained in the fruit, and requiring to be driven off by evaporation. When you judge the proper consistency to be attained, remove the stew-pan from the fire, and let its contents stand to cool a little ; then distribute them into your jam-pots or glasses. Carry these on a tray into a cool, dry store-room, and let them stand all night. Next day you will be able to decide whether the jam is in a fit state to be tied down. Sometimes in wet, inclement seasons, you will find it desirable to give the jam a second boiling to insure its keeping. If all is right, cut circles of white paper which will exactly cover the surface of the jam in the pots. Steep them in brandy, and apply them to it. Then tie down with doubled or trebled paper and Siring, and write on the top the name of the jam and the date of the year. Store the pots in a dry closet, to avoid mouldiness, and in a cool one to prevent fermentation. Raspberry Jam.—Take the same proportions of fruit and sugar, and observe the same precautions as in gather- ing, except that, as the fruit cannot be kept whole, this jam being really a jam, small and imperfectly-shaped fruit, if good in every other respect, may be employed. Then proceed, finish off, and store exactly as with straw- berry jam. Ripe Gooseberry Jam may be made either with the red, yellow, or white varieties of the fruit, but separately, unless a medley is wished for. Thick-skinned varieties are good, for the same reason that citrons are preferable to lemons for supplying candied peel. Wet weather is, if possible, even more unpropitious for gooseberry jam than for the preceding. Reject all cracked fruits, they are insipid and worthless. Remove the withered flower at the top of each, and the stalk at the bottom with a small, sharp pair of scissors. If you attempt to do it with your thumb and finger nails, you will in many cases tear the skin of the fruit. Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow an equal weight (a pound) of broken lump sugar. Then proceed as with strawberry jam. You cannot keep the fruit whole—i.e., you cannot prevent the skins from bursting; nor is it desirable that you should, because too large_a proportion of water enters into their contents, and a great part of this must be evaporated. But break the skins as little as may be, then finish off as before. Gooseberry jam, properly prepared, keeps well. We have found some four years old as good as on the day when it was made. Black Currant Jam.—Exactly as above. If you have the patience, cut off the withered flowers and stalks, which