139 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. I row or two of a later sort for succession, and reserve a I portion of the plot for another and final sowing in June, j 6. Should the crop of dwarf kidney beans have failed, as is quite possible, make another sowing directly, and continue to do so as long as you have room for the same, bearing in mind that they will require protection when i' first they make their appearance, as they are very tender. I Scarlet runners may be sown the first week in the month. 7. The carrots sown here will require thinning as soon as ij large enough to handle. Another sowing of broad beans I may be made, and the early sown ones earthed up. i Stir the soil between the growing rows of beet. 8. The first sowing of turnips may be preserved from frost by covering with a layer of clean straw or mat. Remove the remnants of greens and broccoli, and manure and dig the ij ground afterwards. A few lettuces may be planted or ! perhaps a row of celery, and for this purpose a spare corner should be reserved. June.— I. Dry litter should be laid down between the ij strawberry rows to keep the fruit from the ground, and it will be necessary to water the plants occasionally in dry weather. 2. By the second week in the month this plot will be quite full, the second row or two of cauliflowers [; having been planted ; but as the potatoes will be almost ij ready for taking up, there will soon be room for something else. As soon as the potatoes are removed from the ground, add a little dung if necessary, and turn up the ground that it may be fit to receive the next crop. 3. Very little attention need be paid to sea-kale, except to prevent the plants from producing too much flower and seed. 4. Thin the onions in this bed by means of a small hoe, if you want fine bulbs ; taking care, however, to leave no footmarks upon the ground. Celery plants ready for planting, should be got out at once on a vacant portion of this plot: a foot wide and ten inches deep will be sufficient for the drills, at the bottom of which a little well-rotted manure should be put previous to planting. I 5. Make the final sowing of peas about the middle I of the month, and place sticks to such advancing ' crops as may require support. 6. Dwarf kidney beans may be sown once or twice more this month, and any imperfections in the rows may be made good by transplanting from places where they have come up too thick and are choking each other. Stick scarlet runners as they advance in growth, and keep weeds down by i frequent hoeing. 7. Thin the carrots in this compart- ment, and also the turnips as soon as large enough, and sow more for succession. Put in another crop of broad beans, and earth up the previous sowing. 8. Let your celery trenches be prepared for the reception of the I plants, and on the top of the ridge between the trenches, lettuces may be planted with advantage, as they will come up in time to allow of the crop being earthed up. The \ portion of this plot that has been occupied with winter S broccoli should, as soon as cleared of the stumps, be well !i manured and trenched. ;! In our next paper we propose to continue these re- |il marks upon rotation cropping, and when they are con- i’ eluded, we shall proceed to give detailed information on |l the three great departments of gardening—the cultivation I of vegetables, fruits, and flowers. ■i ' COOKERY.—IX. t MEAT DISHES AT MODERATE COST [continued from p. 120). Calf’s Cheek, atid the Soup from it.—Get your butcher \ to cut the calf’s cheek in halves, just below the cheek- bone, so as to leave the fleshy part of the cheek and the nape of the neck entire. The fresher slain it is, the better. Remove the eye-ball and the cartilage of the nose; shorten the jawbones, so as to get rid of the teeth, but leaving the ! meat which covered them, and throw them away. You would get no good out of them, they only take up room in the boiler. Let the cheek so prepared, after being well washed and rubbed with the hand, steep an hour or two in a pail of cold water. Set it on the fire in plenty of cold water; as it is coming to a boil, keep constantly skimming till no more scum rises. Peel onions, peel and slice carrots and turnips, cut leeks into two inch lengths. Throw these, till wanted, into a pail of cold water to keep them fresh. When the cheek has boiled three hours, throw in the vegetables, with a little salt, half a dozen pepper-corns, and two or three cloves. Put in also a sprig or two of parsley and thyme. The cheek will take about four hours to cook. When done, take it up, and raise the flesh of the cheek and the part containing the glands of the neck off the bones, keeping them entire. Trim this lump of meat freely into shape, and set it aside for another day. The trimmings, the eye, and the fore part of the head, served with the vegetables, will make a nice dish. The broth will turn out excellent soup, which may be eaten with toasted bread soaked in it. When the liquor is cold, skim the fat off the top, and put it into your frying-pan, with the addition of a little dripping, if the quantity is scanty. Slice onions into this, and fry them brown; add a little of the liquor, and stir in gradually a couple of table-spoonfuls of flour and a quarter of a herring, prepared as directed for mock anchovy, chopped fine, if you have not the means of pounding it. Dust in a little pepper, and add more liquor; and when all is mixed well and smooth, stir it into the broth. If any of the trimmings of the head or vegetables are left, cut them in pieces and add them also. When heated up, the second day’s soup will be better than the first, different in flavour, and more substantial. Serve toasted bread to soak in it. Save a little of it to warm up the cold piece of cheek meat in, to which it will also serve as gravy. You can garnish it round with fresh-boiled vegetables— carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes. Sheep’s Heads.—Open the heads, take out the brains whole, and the tongues; throw them into cold water and wash the latter well. Divide the heads into halves. Take out the eyes, shorten the jaw-bones where there is no flesh, cut out the gristle inside the nose, and wash the heads well in two or three waters. Put the halved heads and the tongues into a kettle of cold water with a little salt in it. Skim till it boils ; then throw in the brains, and let them boil a quarter of an hour. At the same time with the brains, throw in some large onions and two or three carrots halved lengthwise. When the flesh on the heads is tender, serve them on a dish with the onions and carrots laid round them; or you may mash the former into onion sauce, with pepper and salt, a bit of butter, and a spoonful of milk. If you do not want the tongues immediately, let them boil for a few minutes longer, and then leave them to cool in the broth. When you want them, warm them up (if cold) in the same ; cut them in halves without separating them, lay them open on a dish, and pour over them some sharp sauce made with the broth, as directed for cods’ heads. Warm the brains in the broth, lay them on a dish, sprinkle them with sage powder, made by drying sage leaves before the fire, and then rubbing them between your hands, and pour over them a little of the brown sauce already de- scribed. The addition of a little rice or prepared oatmeal groats converts the broth into capital soup. Fried Fowl.—The fowl must be young, a cockerel or a pullet. Cut it up into joints, divide them, if large ; also cut the carcase in pieces, use the heart, liver, and the gizzard properly cleansed. Put them all in a frying-pan with some bacon chopped small, a slice or two of ham, a few onions sliced very thin, pepper and salt. Fry all to- gether ; when they are done, arrange them on a hot dish. Dust a little flour into the gravy in your frying-pan ; when browned, stir in a little vinegar and water ; when nicely