CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 183 tender, take them out, and in the water in which they have been boiled, simmer some crumbs of bread over a gentle fire. Mash the turnips, warm them in another saucepan with butter and pepper, then mix them up with the boiled bread. Stir two or three egg-yolks in a little milk, mix these and another bit of butter with the bread and turnips. Let the whole stew gently a minute or two to thicken, and serve. TuT7iip Tops. — In spring an excellent vegetable is furnished by the shoots of turnips. The time to take them is the moment they show signs of running to seed, because their season is very short, especially if the weather is dry and sunshiny. When once sticky and thready, they are over. They are never dear, and in the country may often be had for the gathering. In gardens, it is worth while making a small late sowing, or leaving a patch of turnips, to make “ tops,” because they come in when other greens are scarce. After freshening up the turnip tops in cold water, throw them into a large kettle of boiling soft water, and keep boiling, uncovered, until quite tender. When done, put them into a cullender to drain, squeezing them gently with your ladle. Then transfer them to a vegetable-dish ; press them with the bottom of a plate, holding the dish upright, to let the water run out. Dust the surface with a little pepper, and spread a lump of butter over it. Cut the flattened turnip tops across both ways with a knife, so as to divide them into small squares, and serve. Any left cold may be heated up next day in a saucepan, after being chopped fine with a little butter and salt; they are even better so than they are the first day. There are other garden roots whose spring shoots, on starting up to seed, are not only available but good as vegetables; those of salsify for instance, if soaked and served exactly like asparagus, are delicious. Celery is a most useful and agreeable plant; the im- perfectly blanched portions give a tempting flavour to stews and broths, while the brittle leaf-stalks are the Englishman’s favourite accompaniment to bread and cheese. The following is an approved American recipe for its use:—Cut blanched celery as fine as possible, add salt, and send it to table, whe^e vinegar and egg can be added if desired. Unless served as soon as prepared, it will be apt to turn brown. Ornament the dish with green celery leaves. Onions can be prepared in the same manner, and make a fine salad for those who relish them. Cooked celery is more digestible and equally palatable. Celery stewed Brown.—Cut the white part of celery into three inch lengths, tie them with thread into little bundles, after a good rinsing in a pail of cold water, and throw them into boiling broth to cook till tender, which will take some twenty or five-and-twenty minutes. Untie the bundles as you take them out and arrange them neatly in the middle of a dish. Brown a little butter and flour in a saucepan, dilute with the broth which boiled the celery, stir in a little mushroom catchup, pour it over the celery, and serve. Celery stewed White.—Prepare as before, and tie in bun- dles, throw them into as much boiling water or veal broth as will just cover them. As it diminishes by evaporation, fill up with milk, taking care to prevent its boiling over or burning. Keep the quantity of the boilings as small as possible. When the celery is tender, arrange it on the dish, thicken the liquor with flour and butter (not too much of the former), season lightly with pepper and salt, and pour it over the celery. The flavour of the vegetable should not be overpowered by the sauce. Cauliflowers and Broccoli.—-These vegetables are dis- tinguished more by the season at which they come, than by any distinctive quality in the nature of their substance. The cauliflower is tender and cannot resist our winters ; whereas, broccoli stand mild winters, although they too are cut off by our severer frosts. Consequently the cauliflower season lasts from about the middle of June to the middle of November. Some broccoli, planted early in May will show their faces in autumn, and continue coming in (according to the weather and the variety culti- vated) from that time till May, or even June. Green and purple broccoli are delicious, but small; they are also rather a late summer and autumn than a spring crop- The usual plan is, to throw the heads trimmed, leaving a narrow circlet of shortened leaf-stalks round them into a pail of salt and water, to draw out the insects. The heads are then boiled and served whole. A better plan is to cut up your cauliflower heads into sprigs, leaving to each sprig its portion of stalk, and to the outer sprigs their little bit of green. As you do so, throw them into a pail of cold water, without salt. After leaving them there awhile to freshen, put them into a large sauce- pan containing plenty of boiling soft water. Let them boil fast, with the lid off, till the fork tells you they are tender, which will take from five-and-twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour. Then take them up with a perforated ladle or strainer, in which you will let each lot of sprigs drain a few seconds before depositing them in their dish. When the whole are neatly piled therein, put a lump of butter the size of an egg with a breakfast-cupful of cold water into a saucepan, dust in gradually a bump- ing teaspoonful of flour, stirring continually all the while. When smooth, add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar and a dust of pepper. Let this sauce boil up once, pour it over the cauliflower in the dish, and serve. Cauliflowers a7id Cheese.—Arrange the cooked sprigs on the dish, as above. Put into the sauce instead of vinegar, a table-spoonful of grated cheese. Pour this over the cauliflowers. Sprinkle the surface with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and set it before the fire, or in the oven, to be slightly browned. FURNITURE.—IV. BEDROOM FURNITURE (co7itinuedfrotn p. 157)- When articles of furniture are offered at a very low price defects should be sought for ; the cheapest things are not always the best. Chests of drawers, with a deep drawer at the bottom, and without feet, are more convenient than the usual make ; nevertheless, the feet are useful in keeping the drawers dry, if they are placed on the ground floor. It is a disputed point whether the use of bed-furniture is detrimental, or not, to health. When draught is occa- sioned by ill-fitting doors and windows, some protection to the sides of a bedstead is necessary ; but where there is no draught, it is better to have no hangings. The old-fashioned four-post bedstead, with its array of dra- peries, was suited to the times in which it originated ; yet, even now by some persons these cumbrous four- posters are preferred, as giving a grand and imposing appearance to the room. We give, on the next page, an engraving of one of the four-post bedsteads (Fig. i), with the chair, toilette-table, and glass, of the time of Queen Anne. The table, chair, and mirror are very elegant; but in the latter, utility is sacrificed to appear- ance ; the glass is very small compared with the size of the frame, underneath which is a time-piece. The recum- bent figures on each side the mirror are of Dresden china, and contain essences, perfumes, and cosmetics. The Arabians, Figs. 2 and 3, are excellent substitutes for four-post bedsteads, as they admit of curtains without entirely excluding the air. The top—usually called the tester—should not be covered excepting by net-work. The upright posts of an Arabian bedstead should be polished or painted ; but they are often left rough and unsightly, to be covered with dimity or other material, whereas this should hang from the tester down the head