302 DOMESTIC MEDICINE. in other words, not to toast it too fast. Concerning the buttering of hot toast we may add another hint or two. An ill-toasted slice of bread does not absorb the butter, but allows it to remain in a mass on the surface. A slice of properly-toasted bread, on the contrary, allows the butter to permeate every part of it, and to all parts equally. Butter in the one case is too heavy for the stomach ; but when thus intimately associated with the whole mass of the food, in finely divided and proper proportions, its character is entirely changed, and it becomes wholesomely nutritious. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—VIII. WORMS. We now come to a disease in which domestic medicine is apt to be thought quite sufficient. The symptoms of worms are often very equivocal and doubtful, and the cause of worms is a still more difficult question. Yet every old lady thinks herself a judge of when a child has worms, and often puts aside the fine speculations of em- barrassed doctors, by exclaiming, “ That child is troubled with worms.” Nevertheless, the question of worms, and the cure of them, when their presence is ascertained, are among the things that require judgment; and it may here be said that, probably, worms are not so common in human beings, even in children, as is generally supposed. They are very rarely met with in young children under a year. They are more frequently met with in the children of the poor, which is probably due to the fact of their being ill-fed, and to their houses being badly ventilated and unhealthy. The principal worms which affect the human body are of three kinds : the first, the small threadworm {Ascaris vermicularis); secondly, the round- worm {Lumbrici); thirdly, the long tapeworm, which is flat, and made up of links or segments {Tcenid). The Small Thread-worm, so called from the fact that it is like pieces of white thread, is very common in young children, and exists low down in the bowel, very near the seat. Hence it often causes much itching here, and sometimes also in the neighbouring passages, especially of female children. The child is apt also to pick its nose, and grind its teeth at night; to have a variable appetite ; to look pale and pinched. These symptoms are quite sufficient to make us suspect the presence of worms ; but they have other causes, and there is only one proof of our suspicions being right—and that is actually seeing worms. The Round-worm is not unlike a garden worm, and is narrow at both ends. It is of a light yellow or browm colour. It infests a higher part of the intestine than the thread-worms, and not the large intestine, but the small. It may even crawl up into the stomach and be vomited, or it may crawl up higher and enter the nostrils, or even the windpipe ; but such cases are very rare. It may exist singly or in great numbers. The mucous membrane in contact with the worm may be inflamed from the movements of the worm or worms. They occasionally wriggle their way into all the recesses of the bowels. They give rise locally to colicky, gnawing pains about the navel, and often to a kind of diarrhoea ; and occasionally serious nervous symptoms arc caused by round-worms, such as squinting, twitching of the muscles, or actual convulsions, heaviness, headache, grinding the teeth in sleep, and picking the nose ; but, as we have said, these symptoms may have other causes, and we cannot be sure that they arise from worms unless we sec the worms; and even when worms are known to co-exist with serious symptoms, it does not follow that they are the cause of tbe symptoms. In addition to these symptoms, the child is often pale, and has a fetid breath and a quickened pulse. At the same time the child’s general health may be little impaired. The Tape-worm {Teznia soliian) is a long flat worm consisting of many segments, or four-sided pieces. It is of a white colour, and has a length of five to fifteen feet. It has its abode in the smaller intestine; and is rare in early life. The symptoms are not in themselves characteristic apart from the presence of links, or pieces of the worm in the motion; but in a patient who by this sign is known to have had tapeworms, its presence may be again suspected if he is depressed, and has uncomfortable or gnawing feel- ings about the stomach, irregular appetite, and the other symptoms which we have described as often caused by worms. Worms may cause severity or irregularity in the symp- toms of other diseases. Cattses.—Worm disease is much more common in some places than others; thus, in Paris there are few cases; while in the provinces, and other parts of France, it is a common affection ; it is more common, as we have said, among the poor than the rich. Good food, thoroughly cooked, tends to prevent the disease. Certain unhealthy states of the constitution favour worms, as paleness, indigestion, &c. Too much fruit and too much sugar are favourable to worm disease, and underdone bad meat, probably, often contains the germs of worms, especially of tape-worm. It is often observed that people who are troubled with tape-worms, are fond of meat underdone or half-cooked, especially of pork. Treatme?it and Remedies. — The treatment depends largely on the kind of worm. For the small thread-worm a local remedy is the best in the form of an injection. It comes directly into contact with the worms, and destroys them. The following injection may be used :— Tincture of perchloride of iron ... ^ drachm. Infusion of quassia ... Bounces. Mix. A sixth part of this may be injected every other night into the bowel till the symptoms are relieved. Injections of three or four ounces of lime-water, too, containing ten or fifteen drops of tincture of perchloride of iron, are also very useful for the cure of these small worms. For the Round-worms, two or three grains of santonine for one or two nights, followed next morning by a dose of castor oil, is a good remedy ; but it should be given only by a medical man. For Tape-worm there is one remedy that is generally most effective, the oil of male fern in some such form as the following :— Oil of male fern ... ... ... J to i drachm. Mucilage of acacia ... ... i ounce. Peppeimint water ... ... i ounce. Mix. To be taken early in the morning ; the stomach having been cleared by light feeding the day before on broths, beef tea, &c. &c. It i= very seldom that this remedy fails to bring away the woim either at once, or after a second dose. A few days’ interval should be observed between the doses. A dose of castor oil may be given the day before the dose of fern oil is given, and, if necessary, the day after. In addition to worm medicines, care should be taken to give the patient good air, good, sound, well- cooked food, and a little tonic medicine containing iron, such as the following, for a child five years old :— Tincture of perchloride of iron ... i drachm. Simple syrup ... ... ... ..o i ounce. Infusion of quassia bounces. Mix. One table-spoonful night and morning, in water, after meals.