CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 207 After passing the examination, the student will return I to her position as acting teacher, and be in the condition I called “probationary.” After obtaining two favourable I reports from an inspector, she will then be entitled to the parchment which will constitute her a duly qualified and ' certificated teacher. While on probation, however, she 1 satisfies the requirements of the New Code, and is in a ( position to take a good and remunerative situation, being considered as a certificated teacher under the Code of ' Regulations. J: Candidates for certificates and pupil-teachers are all ii examined in grammar, geography, history, arithmetic, penmanship, and writing from dictation ; also in needle- work, domestic economy, and school management. Can- didates should obtain the help of certificated teachers to aid them in preparing for the Government examination. They should also work written exercises, which are of great value when carefully corrected and examined. The ! handwriting should be clear and clerk-like, for failure in either penmanship or spelling, reading, composition, i’ arithmetic, or school management is fatal in the exami- i nation for a certificate. All intending students are recommended to procure the last Government Code of Regulations, which is issued annually, under Government orders and supervision. It may be obtained, price three- pence, at the National Society’s Depot, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, S.W. Here, also, the “ Questions to Students,” issued by the Education Department, may I be procured, price sevenpence, which is a most useful 1, guide for study, and shows the style and description of questions likely to be set. The National Society ! also issues a monthly paper, which is the principal I advertising medium both for schools and teachers; this ; should also be taken in by those desiring information about vacancies, whether in town or country schools. ' Candidates for admission into Church of England (: Training Schools, as well as pupil-teachers in Church of England schools, are usually required to pass an examination in religious knowledge. This examination, I which is not, however, required by the Education Depart- i ment, consists of the following subjects :—Holy Scripture : Outlines of Old Testament History, the Gospel Narrative, the Acts of the Apostles. The Prayer Book: the I Catechism, the Order for Morning and Evening Prayer, il the Litany. The duties of teachers in elementary schools are both healthful and congenial. The hours of work vary in some : schools according to the season of the year, but usually , the children assemble at 9-30 a.m. and are dismissed at 4'3o p.m. A quarter of an hour’s run is allowed them at !| eleven, and an hour and a quarter (sometimes more) for I dinner, thus reducing the actual school hours to five hours ,1 and a half. After school the hours are free for recreation, I' pleasant visits, or study. |i With regard to the instruction of pupil-teachers, a I: teacher is required by Government to devote to them five hours in the week, although occasionally it may be found ji needful to give a longer period. For this additional labour, !j however, the teacher is repaid and compensated by their intelligent assistance in the school and the daily com- panionship their society will afford. After the somewhat monotonous and elementary routine of the school, the instruction of the pupil-teachers in the higher branches of study would be a relief and change. Saturday is a whole holiday, and Sunday also; although occasionally a ■ mistress, anxious to add to her income, undertakes the position of organist, or some description of parish work. From various authorities we find the average income of the certificated mistresses of girls’ schools to be j reckoned at ^8, and of infant schools at per annum. ; They live, in addition, rent free, and in some cases allowances are made for fuel, light, etc. Under the 1 School Boards of large towns higher emoluments are I offered, ^75 per annum having been fixed as the minimum salary for mistresses. The comfort and advantage of possessing a small home would render the position of an elementary school-mistress an eminently tempting one to many a poor governess, could she but manage to qualify herself to hold the position. HINTS TO LETTER-WRITERS.—III. The majority of people are not often required to write letters to persons of rank and title ; but all who have to do it should know the forms which are used in polite society. The nobility and others in high official positions are addressed in a style which is peculiar to them, and any deviation from the recognised phraseology is con- sidered unbecoming. Everything of the nature of a letter addressed to exalted personages requires attention in four particulars;— 1. The address, commonly so called. 2. The heading, or what answers to “Sir,” “ Madam,” &c., in ordinary letters. 3. The mode of speaking to the person in the body of the letter; or the personal address. 4. The conclusion, or subscription. Attention to these details is important, and we proceed to give such information as will enable any one to fulfil the principal requirements. The Queen. Address: “To the Queen’s Most Ex- cellent Majesty;” or, “To Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria.” Heading: “Madam;” or, “May it please your Majesty.” Personal Address: “Your Ma- jesty ;” or, “ Madam.” Conclusio7i : “ I remain, with the profoundest veneration, your Majesty’s most faithful subject and dutiful servant.” The Prince of Wales. Address: “To His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales.” Heading: “Sir;” or, “May it please your Royal Highness.” Personal Address: “Your Royal Highness.” Conclusion: “I remain, with the greatest respect, Sir, your Royal Highness’s most dutiful and most obedient humble seiwant.” Other princes and royal dukes require similar forms. For the Princess of Wales the forms are’ the same, only “ Princess” is put for “ Prince,” and “ Madam” for “ Sir.” In addressing other princesses and royal duchesses, also, the same rules are to be observed, except that in the con- clusion for “ Most dutiful and most obedient humble servant,” we say, “ Most obedient and devoted humble servant.” Archbishop. Address: “To the Most Reverend Father in God, by Divine Providence Lord Archbishop of .” This however applies to official documents ; letters are addressed, “To His Grace the Lord Arch- bishop of .” Heading: “My Lord Archbishop.” The words, “ by Divine Providence,” are only used of the Archbishop of Canterbury ; to other Archbishops we say, “ by Divine permission,” and the same to suffragan bishops. The Archbishop of Armagh is styled, “ His Grace the Lord Primate of all Ireland.” In the body of a letter, and in conversation, an archbishop is addressed as “ Your Grace.” The wife of an archbishop is addressed as any other untitled lady. Duke. Address: “To His Grace the Duke of ——.” Heading: “ My Lord Duke.” Perso7ial Address : “Your Grace.” Conchision : “ I have the honour to be, my Lord Duke, your Grace’s most devoted and obedient servant.” For a duchess the address and personal address cor- respond with those for a duke ; the heading is “ Madam,” and the conclusion, “ I have the honour to be. Madam, your Grace’s most obedient and most humble servant.” A duke’s younger son is addressed as “The Lord William ;” or, “ The Right Honourable Lord William i