128 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. he must guess the lady to whom it is to be offered, and offer to each in succession until he discovers the in- dividual selected. The musical part of the performance is this : When he re-enters the room, the person at the piano commences to play some piece, with a moderate degree of vigour. As the guesser approaches the right lady, or the right thing to be done, whatever its nature, the music becomes louder or quicker; but if he appears to be going farther and farther from his appointed task, the music becomes softer and softer, until it is scarcely heard. This gives him a clue as to whether he is on the right scent, or otherwise. If there is no piano in the room, the “ magic music” may be of another character. It may consist in thetinklingor clash- ing together of any articles that will emit either a har- monious or a dis- cordant sound, according to the degree of hilarity or boisterousness to which the age and other circumstances of the company dis- pose them. But, played with a little tact, the game in any of its forms will be found amusing. We have had occasion to men- tion forfeits ; and as those form an important element in many in - door games, we shall have some- thing to say about them in our next paper, in which we hope, at the same time, to introduce to the notice of our younger readers several novel amusements, which in the long evenings they may find especially acceptable. 1 A ni m F i E H D 0 B K & J c Fig. 50. Fig. 52. Fig. S3- THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—VIIL DOORS. An ordinary frame door will supply good practice chiefly in the mortice and tenon joint, and will be a capital example of the principle of joinery—to build up of sepa- rate pieces a fabric of lighter weight and greater strength than if solid, and also so pieced together as not to be affected to any extent by changes in the atmosphere. It will be seen by reference to the article on Wood that the tendency of boards to shrink or expand is in the direction of the width and not of length. If a door is made up of boards simply fastened edge to edge, the expansion of its width will be very considerable, while its length remains the same. Therefore, if a “ ledge” door, as it is termed, fits in damp weather, in dry it will be smaller and too loose. Ledge doors are made by placing boards together edge to edge, and strengthened with two or three ledges or battens nailed across the back, but these are only suited for common work. Fig. 50 shows that the essential principle in the proper constniction of an ordinary frame and panel door is such a combination of length and width of grain as reduces the possibility of expansion or contraction to a minimum. The frame consists of the styles or vertical pieces, degf, and the rails or horizontal bars, A n c. The method by B TZj which they are firmly united is seen in Fig. 51, in which each piece is detached and lettered to show where each joint is' made. The styles, DEGF should be about four inches wide, and from one and a quarter to two inches in thickness, and the rails of the same thickness, but only the top rail. A, of the same width; the middle and lower rails, B C, being about double the width of the styles. The middle styles are tenoned into the middle rail at d and /, and into the upper and lower at b and j. The side styles are then morticed at <i cfh, to fit the tenons corresponding on the rails- HIJ K show the panels, which are of much thinner ma- terial, usually about one-third, and which are, as will be seen, larger than the spaces in the frame which they occupy visibly. On the inner edges of both styles and frames, a groove is planed out with a plough of the exact width of the thick- ness of the panel, and about half an inch in depth. Into these grooves the panels are loosely * fitted, and the outer styles are driven into their respec- tive mortices, and wedged up as usuaL The panels not quite filling up the groove in their width^ have a slight amount of room for expansion. The dotted line Imno, Fig. 50, shows the room occupied by the panel. The corners formed between the frame edge and panel are to be filled in with a bead or moulding, which must be cut to the exact size, and accurately bevelled at each corner, .s These mouldings are fitted by means of brads to one or both sides of the door, according to circumstances, and are merely ornamental. Fig. 52 is a section across the door in the middle of the panels, and shows the whole arrangement very clearly, D E F being the styles, and H I the panels. Fig. 53 shows enlarged section of the joint of the style A and panel B, and shows the moulding c fitted in the corner. This panel is used for light doors for inside work, a stronger variety being needed for the outside doors, which require much greater strength. ' This panel is of double thickness, and is tongued to fit the groove in the styles and rails, as in Fig. 54, and is indented only on the front or outside, the back being flush with the surface of the frame ; the edges of the panel at the back are usually beaded, as at D. The corners in the front are filled in with the moulding, c. We have taken as an example a four- panelled door, for the sake of simplicity, the construction being similar for six, the usual number. In a six-panel door the top rail is known by that name, the next is the frieze rail, the next the middle or lock rail, and the last the bottom rail. The panels are also distinguished by the same names. The lock is let intojthe door at either e or /, and does not show, except from the edge. The hinges are fixed near the top and bottom of the styles, on the side opposite to the lock, but, of course, must not be placed at a part where the style is weakened by the mortice. Fig. SI. ia: o Fig. S4-