158 THE TOILETTE. If the nipples are actually sore, nothing is better than the application of a little glyceral tannin, applied night and morning with a camel’s hair pencil. It must be removed with a sponge and warm water when the child sucks. If the child’s mouth is hot, it should be washed each time after being put to the breast with a little borax and honey. Nettle-rash.—This is a very troublesome affair, some- :imes, in children. It is known by the sudden appearance of little places, like those produced by the sting of the nettle, after itching in a part; and the special feature of the spots is, that they rapidly vanish—in a few minutes, oftentimes. They are excited by scratching, and appear specially at night, when the child gets warm. Mothers should be careful to examine in these cases for bugs about the room and bed in which the child sleeps, for they very often produce the disease in irritable skins. Flannel should not be worn next the skin. The child should take a little aperient, and be placed each night in a tepid bath for five or ten minutes, in which is dissolved three ounces of carbonate of soda and two pounds of size ; after which it should be dried by gentle “ dabbing,” and should have “ whitening ” applied to the irritable parts, with a brush. Several lumps of whitening may be softened up with water into a semi-liquid paste. The powder is allowed to dry on at night, and it is sponged off in the morning. This plan is good for simple cases of nettle-rash. Chronic nettle-rash is often very troublesome, generally making its appearance periodically as the night comes on. This disease usually depends on a disordered state of the digestive organs, and endeavours should be made in the first place to ascertain whether the rash is caused by any • particular article of diet; if this be not the case, the state of the digestive organs generally must be improved, if possible. The Itch.—This unpleasant disease is very common,' and often occurs in the most cleanly person. It is caused by the burrowing under the skin of a little insect called the Acarus scabiei. These acari prefer to attack the thin skin between the fingers, and hence itch most commonly —in fact, practically always in adults—begins between the fingers. It then spreads to the wrists and the front of the arm. The irritation set up by the acari, together with the scratching, induces a pimply rash pretty generally over the front of the body. The pimples are always separate. Between the fingers they look like little pointed watery bladders, the size of a pin’s head, and the most characteristic appearance is the presence of a little black line the breadth of a human hair, and in length about two or three lines, running away from the little vesicle, as the bladdery pimple is called. This is the burrow of the insect. Those who are accustomed to the disease can at once pick out the insect from the end of the burrow, which looks like a minute white speck but just discernible to the naked eye. In many cases it has been scratched out, and its burrow opened by the finger-nails. The itching is bad at night, when the patient gets warm in bed, or at any time when the sufferer remains too near the fire, because the itch insects then become active and lively. But how arc mothers and others to know when the itch is amongst members of the family ?—whenever a minute rash occurs between the fingers in the form of small watery pimples, spreading on to the front part of the arms, and is accompanied by itching, especially at night. When the rash spreads to the front part of the body, and more than one member of the family is attacked, the suspicion of itch should at once be entertained. The rash of itch does not occur on the outside of the arms, or on the back, except in very severe cases, and these should at once be taken to a doctor. The itch commences chiefly about the hands in adults ; in young children it may be absent from these parts, and may commence about the seat, whilst it also attacks the feet. It leads in children to places like little boils, besides a pimply rash. When a child comes out with an itchy rash about the seat, and this is followed by little boil-like scabbed spots on the same place and about the feet, it probably is troubled with the itch; and this is all the more likely to be the case if the nurse has a pimply rash about the hands or on the arms. There are many pimply rashes which occur about the child’s back, but then these are, in every case, uniform, whereas in itch the rash is multiform. There are red pimples, vesicles, and boil-like eruptions, together with great itching; and sometimes the irritation is sufficient to induce spots like those produced by the sting of the nettle. Now the itch if it be recog- nised at an early date, is very easily cured, and the remedy is sulphur, which kills the acari. The general mistake which is made is in the too long-continued and too extensive use of a much too strong sulphur ointment. The acari, or itch insects, are found chiefly about the hands, and it is to this part that the sulphur should be applied. Once kill the acari here, and the general irritation and rash subside. It is quite sufficient to use the sulphur for about three days, and to rub in an ointment, composed of thirty grains of sulphur, five drops of oil of camornile, five grains of white precipitate, and five of carbonate of potash, with an ounce of lard, to the parts between the fingers, and about the wrists, if there are any pimples, night and morning freely. Smear the ointment very gently over other pimply places for three days. At the end of that time, the whole body should be thoroughly washed with soap and water, and the disease, if it is of recent origin, will be well. If the itching do not then cease, it may be advisable to continue the ointment for a couple of days, using it gently, and rtibbing it in only to any little bladdery pimples that appear about the hands. An eminent authority I'ecommends this simple treatment; he condemns sulphur baths, or the ordinary sulphur ointment of the shops, and he says that he is often consulted about cases in which the too free use of sulphur has cured the itch, but has set up an artificial irritation and inflamma- tion of the skin, which is even more tormenting than the original disease, and is sometimes troublesome to cure. The clothes worn by persons attacked with itch should be thoroughly well baked, or scalded in the hottest water. Ringworm of the Body.—This is a very common and often a troublesome complaint. It generally occurs in little circular red scurfy itching patches ; indeed, we may say that any patch which is quite round, of the size of from a sixpence to a five-shilling piece, which does not discharge or weep, which is covered, not by crusts, but thin scales, and which “clears” in the centre, is ringworm. If it occur in one member of a family in connection with ringworm of the head in other members, we have no doubt of its nature. There is a circular form of eruption, in which there are red hard elevations of a dull red tint, much like ringworm; but true ringworm is never elevated—never much raised above the level of the skin. The disease mostly occurs about the back of the neck, the forehead, or the arms. It is caused by a vegetable fungus with roots between the cells of the scarfiskin, and sets up the irritation we notice. The cure is easy in the early stage. Ink, repeatedly applied, is a favourite and useful remedy. If severe, the application of acetic acid is of service; it will blister, and must not, therefore, be rubbed in too strongly. The following ointment may be recom- mended for general use:—White precipitate, 3 grains ; creasote, 3 drops ; citrine ointment, i drachm ; adeps, or cerate, i ounce. Rub in night and morning pretty freely, till all itching or scaliness disappears. The other forms of ringworm will be described in speaking of the hair. Lice., or Pediculi.—These unpleasant visitors sometimes make their appearance in the heads of those children who arc cither uncleanly, or who arc debilitated by severe disease. If they arc numerous, it is best to cut the hair short, to wash lire head very thoroughly with soap and