57 CASSELUS HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—II. LEATHER-WORK (continuedfrom p. 41). To make flowers and fruit in leather, it is advisable that Nature should guide the learners entirely ; never trusting to their own taste, nor to paper patterns, when natural leaves and productions are procurable. It is almost impossible to give a really practi- cal written description ; however, I will en- deavour to explain the process of making two or three of the easiest, as simply as I can, but really recommend those desiring to be proficients in the art, to take a couple of lessons to learn the more complicated species, as roses, passion-flowers, &c. Camellias.—Cut out the petals (Figs. 6, 7) according to the number and sizes required, damp and mould them into shape with the fingers, and give them as natural a form as possible; fasten all the petals together with thread and liquid glue, and put a piece of wire through the whole for a stalk, covered with skiver leather. Fi] The buds are made by piece of leather uncut at one end, rolling the strips round between the thumb and finger. The anthers are formed by a thin strip of leather being cut into small pieces, and each portion rolled between the finger and thumb, the end of each stamen being tipped with liquid glue; the anther can be easily affixed. The piece of leather left at the end of the stamens should be rolled up as a stalk, put into the interior of the lily, pulled through the hole at the base, and then glued to its proper place. The bud of the lily is formed by merely folding the whole corolla to- gether, veined (see Fig. 8). To make Hops.—Cut twenty petals out of skiver leather all the same size, the shape of the single petal, B, Fig. 10; then take a piece of wire, and wind leather round the end of it, as in A, Fig. 10, fasten- ing it well with liquid glue ; this inner body should be somewhat shorter than the hop is to be when completed, and pointed at both ends. Mould the petals into a convex form at the end of each petal, then glue them alternately, coin- Fig. : Fig. 7. rolling some leather chips, smeared with liquid glue, into the proper shape, then covering with two or three petals, and gluing down the base to the calyx, tak- ing care to leave the upper part of each petal free. The calyx should be formed by cutting a piece of leather to pattern, and moulded into shape with the fingers and the handle of the veiner. Dahlias, Fig. 9, are formed by cutting out circles of leaves, each circle being smaller than the other, and each having a hole in the centre ; a fine roll or pledget of leather is passed through these holes, and holds all the circles together. White Lilies.—Take a piece of leather and cut it into six petals, formed of one piece, thus : the three largest petals which alternate with the others are brought uppermost, while the three smaller ones are placed behind; the leaves are then to be veined, and curled or moulded into shape, as in the natural flower, and the petals will require to be glued to keep them in their proper places. Moulds can be procured to work the lily on ; but if there is not one at hand, some- thing should be adapted to place the lily upon while modelling it as near the shape of the interior as pos- sible. It has six stamens with oblong anthers, which are made by cutting strips of leather, and leaving a Fig. 10. mencing at the bottom and finishing at the top of the flower (c. Fig. 10). In constructing Fruit, much care is necessary in the formation of the moulds, the choice of specimens, and the manipulation through- out. The materials required consist of some gutta- percha sheets of various degrees of thickness, and some natural moulds ; the rest of the materials are the same as those used for other work, -with the addi- tion of two fruit-moulding tools of different sizes. To construct a Peach.— Choose a hard, unripe speci- men, and obtain a cast of the exact half by dipping a piece of gutta-percha sheet into hot water, and pressing it firmly over the peach, previously smeared with olive oil. If neatly done — and the art will be acquired by practice—the natural division of the fruit may be imitated. Remove the cast from the fruit, smear the inside with oil, and cut a piece of leather larger than the mould, dip it into cold water, and with the moulding-tool press it gradually and firmly, with a circular motion, into the mould, then set it aside to dry. Next pour some liquid glue into the inside, and press in any odd pieces of leather or shavings until the half is filled. Construct another half, and join the two parts with liquid glue ; rub off the irregular edges that remain with the end of the Fig. 8.