150 OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN. OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN.—I. OFFICIALS UNDER LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND OTHER BOARDS. Several excellent appointments are now open to women, properly qualified and educated, in the Civil Service, in connection with the Post Office Department. Among the best of these, only recently opened, is that of clerkships in the Post Office Savings Banks. A nomination from the Postmaster-General is required to enable the candidates to compete before the Civil Service Commission, which is appointed to examine them. The subjects of examination are writing and orthography, grammar and composition, arithmetic, including both vulgar and decimal fractions, and geography. The age required is from sixteen to thirty, and the salary is an increasing one, clerks of the second class, which is the lowest, obtaining £^o yearly, rising hy £7 los. to ^75 ; those of the first and highest class, ^80, rising to ^100 ; while principal and head-clerks get as much as from ;^iio to ^150 yearly. Telegraphy is one of the most promising of the new employments opened to women under Goveniment. The private branches of it are not to be recommended for adoption, as they are already over-full. The pay is small, and the work heavy. Eight shillings a week and food, or los. a week with tea only, are the usual terms at what are called “ receiving-houses,” for female clerks. A grocer’s, chemist’s, stationer’s, or, in fact, any kind of shop, may be a receiving-house ; and the Government generally pays about £tp a year, i per cent, on stamps sold, and 6s. a week for the telegraph, with a penny extra on every message sent, to the owner of the shop. The Government has the head-offices, and the district and branch ones, undbr its own charge ; and the clerks are paid on a rising scale, which begins at 8s. a week, finding their own food. This, however, is only for the first year, as, after that, the pay rises to 12s. and i6s. ; and a superintendent obtains 24s. weekly. The Government clerks are paid for over-hours, and at the end of twenty or five-and- tw»nty years’ service can retire with a pension. To this department the Government only admits as many candidates as are required to fill vacancies, and success in the training is, therefore, a pledge of future steady employment. Candidates must be between fourteen and eighteen years of age ; must have two references to respectable persons ; and must apply in their own hand- writing to the secretary of the Civil Service Commission, Cannon Row. The application and references must be on printed forms, which can be obtained at the office in Cannon Row. All candidates must pass a preliminary examination in writing from dictation ; writing with pencil or style ; the first four rules of arithmetic (simple and compound), and the geography of the United Kingdom. The successful candidates must pass a medical exami- nation, particularly with reference to sight and hearing ; and they are also obliged to enter the Government schools for three months’ gratuitous instruction. Their wages will commence, at 8s. a week, as soon as they are appointed probationary clerks. There are two departments of telegraphic work—first, the charge of stations throughout the country, and secondly, the checking and examination of all messages sent, at the Central Telegraph Station, Albion Place, Blackfriars. This last gives employment to a staff of 1,400 persons. Of these, 700 are females, who are under the direction of female officers ; 30s. a week is the highest salary paid, but very few exceed 20s. The working-day is from ten a.m. till five p.m., except on Saturdays, when the clerks participate in the usual half- holiday. The post-mistresses employed by Government are on duty for eight hours ; their salary begins at 14s., and rises to 24s. In the Returned Letter Office, the salary also begins at 14s., but the clerks are divided into first and second class. The first rises to 24s., the second to 17s. only. A knowledge of languages is of great service in the Telegraph Department, as the arrival of foreign messages is of daily occurrence in the large London offices. The appointment of women as registrars is of recent date, and there is no doubt but that it is a post which an educated woman can fill with as much efficiency as any man. The duties are light, and the legal qualifications for the post are not very considerable. The applicant must be twenty-one years of age, a householder i-esiding in the district, and must be able to read and write. The registrars are, in the first instance, appointed by the board of guardians of a LTnion ; and applications should be addressed to them. There is no fixed salar)'. For each of the first twenty entries of births and deaths, in each quarterly account, a fee of 2s. 6d. is paid ; and is. for each succeeding one in the same account. A fee of IS. is given for each marriage register collected ; and is. is paid for mileage, for taking reports to the superin- tendent’s office. There are various other fees, all of which are paid quarterly, by the Superintendent Registrar. A suggestion has been lately made that women should be appointed to the office of public vaccinator for women and children. We have not heard, however, that this idea has been carried out yet, although, we believe, female dispensers for Unions are at present on their trial. Perhaps the other will follow, as soon as some existing prejudices shall have been overcome. The London School Board employs about thirty female visitors, at salaries commencing at ;^5o per annum, and increasing up to £70. The duties of this post are— (i), to keep a schedule, as directed by the London Board, of the names and addresses of the children be- tween three and twelve years of age in the district, and to be ready to produce it, for the information of the com- mittee, whenever required to do so; (2), to investigate, and report upon, the nature of applications for the pay- ment or remission of school fees ; (3), to report to the Superintendent of the Visitors cases of the infringement of the bye-laws, and of the Workshops’ or other Acts. It is also the duty of visitors to serve upon any parent notices pertaining to the rules of the School Boards, and to make reports upon such cases to the superintendent. Applica- tions for engagement as visitor must be made to the School Board of each district, in whose hands lies the power of engaging, directing, and removing the visitors. The large schools of the metropolis offer many situa- tions suitable for educated women of a better class. In the very largest schools there are, at least, five places drawing salaries of from £^0 to ;^5o each, with everything found. These are matron, infirmary matron, school- mistress, infant-school mistress, and work-mistress. There is also the post of training-cook, who instructs the girls in cookery, and who receives from £20 to ^25 per annum, and all found. The matron of such a large establish- ment needs special qualifications, and must understand thoroughly good work in every department—the cooking, laundry, and all domestic management. The infirmary matron must be a hospital nurse, with special experience in children's diseases. The school-mistress must be highly efficient, and well trained ; and the infant-school mistress must understand the principles and practice of the Kindergarten system. The head work-mistress must be conversant with the several standards required by the London School Board ; and the training-cook must have taken her certificate at the Schonl of Cookery. For all these posts a special training is needed, but the work is not hard, and the hours of labour are exactly defined.