42 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. which it has been raised by the heat of the patient, after the withdrawal of the instrument. This increased heat of the body is not only a symptom of the severity of disease, but it is a very early symptom. Dr. Burdon Sanderson, during the cattle-plague, made the interesting observation that the very first symptom which occurred was this elevation of temperature. When to all ordinary appearance the animal was well, a thermometer thrust into an internal part, often showed an elevation of the temperature of the body by two or three degrees; and in these cases he was able to predict confidently that the animal was in for cattle-plague. The advantage here was that the animal might sooner be slaughtered and removed from contact with other animals before the more con- tagious stages of its disease occurred. And so in human diseases a rise of temperature is an early and significant symptom, and one not difficult to ascertain. A child, a few years old, will not unwillingly become a party to an interesting thermometric observation, and will hold the bulb of the thermometer under its tongue. The writer may illustrate these points by a case :—A little girl at church on a Sunday evening, and making no particular complaint, was noticed the next day to be rather hot in the skin, by the medical man who was calling at the house for another pur- pose. Sore throat was immediately suspected and soon after found. And the thermometer being at hand, it was kept in the mouth by the little patient, and found to rise to 102° Fahrenheit, The patient may feel shivery, and yet the thermometer will show an elevation of temperature: so early does this occur in disease. As our object at present is to specify early symptoms which imply com- plaints serious enough to have a medical opinion upon, we will not dwell further upon the significance of an elevated temperature. We will only say, with the view of showing our readers how careful and precise medical science is becoming, that the thermometer is often used for ascertaining the existence of serious disease when other symptoms are very vague, and also for determining the danger of particular cases. A very high temperature occurring in the course of diseases, such as fevers or rheumatic fever, is a dangerous symptom. If a high temperature succeeds a severe shivering, the case is cer- tainly one for medical, not domestic treatment. Shiverings and subsequent heat, or alternate shiverings and heat, accompanied with general aching and soreness, are the symptoms by which we may generally judge of the onset of some acute attack. Other preliminary symptoms occur, according to the particular nature of the disease setting in. For example, sickness generally accompanies the preliminary shiverings and heats of scarlet fever ; sneezing and red eyes, those of measles ; severe acute pain in the back, those of small-pox. But these will come in for more particular notice under the head of the special diseases which they characterise. The grand thing to remember here is that shiverings and sub- sequent heat of the body are generally the indications of a smart attack of some kind. Let us now mention a few symptoms which may not be the forerunners of any acute attack, but which must never- theless be seriously regarded; amongst these we may notice —sickness, loss of flesh, loss of colour, loss of strength. Sickness may be of no consequence. It may be caused by an error of diet, eating unwholesome food or forbidden fruit, and it may cure itself. There is one kind of sickness, against neglecting which we warn people, that is, a very acute, incessant sickness in children or young people, accompanied with costiveness. Such a sickness as this leading the patient to vomit even water, should be regarded as of serious import. Vomiting is a common symptom at the outset of scarlet fever. Of this more hereafter. Pend- ing the arrival of a doctor the proper treatm.ent of it is the blandest food in small quantities, such as milk, or milk and water; and a little effervescing drink from time to time. Loss of Flesh, Loss of Colour, or Loss of Strength, if they occur either singly or together, are things to take advice about rather than to take physic for. With these preliminary hints about important symptoms, we will give in a future number a more detailed notice of particular diseases THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—HI. THE TOOL CHEST [continuedfrom p. For mahogany a tool like a smoothing-plane is used, but the angle of the bed is much greater, eighty or ninety degrees, and the edge of the iron is cut into little teeth. The action of this tool is more scraping than cutting, and is of most use in roughing veneers. It is called a toothing- plane. Beading-planes, for cutting beads of various sizes and curves, are constructed with irons of the required shape. Hollows, rounds, and various mouldings are cut by the same means. Fillisters, or rebating-planes, are provided with knives which cut on the sides as well as at the sole, and are chiefly used for cutting out the channel in window-frames in which the glass lies. They are often provided with movable stops and guides, without which their action is very uncertain. Match-planes are provided with two sides, one of which has an iron constructed to hollow out a groove on the edge of a plank, the other side having a double iron, which cuts a tongue exactly to match the groove, the object being to fit two planks together, edge to edge. It is common to work a small bead on one edge, which is a great improvement to the appearance. These planks are termed “match-boarding.” Fig. 20 is what is known as an “ old woman’s tooth,” and is used for cutting out grooves across the grain, such as slides, into which shelves are fitted. The edges of these grooves should be sawn out with a tenon-saw. Compass-planes have round soles according to the curve they are required to cut, and of course are of great variety. The principle in a plane is the same as with a chisel, with the advantage of much greater steadiness on account of the increased power of guiding given by the sole, which prevents too great a degree of penetration. The spokeshave is the lowest form of plane, and is only used for small widths. It is pulled towards the operator by both hands. The angle of the edge being only twenty- five degrees, the tool cuts quickly and easily. Saws.—It is by means of saws that the more easily worked materials are converted from the tree form to the crude shape they are required to assume before the finishing processes are begun; and as the ends to be accomplished are so varied in magnitude and difficulty, so are the forms these tools are given numerous and diversified. All saws, however, consist of thin blades of steel, fixed in convenient handles, and having one edge i serrated, or cut into teeth ; and it is in the size and shape of these teeth, and the angles at which they are inclined, ; that the most important variations-are to be noticed. In all saws intended for wood, the teeth are slightly bent alternately outwards, in order that the cutting edge should present a larger surface to the material than the blade