CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 343 other bony fishes. The parents prefer brackish water to spawn in. When this is the case, the young perform a migration up-stream, which, on many rivers is called eel- fare. We have seen them, a couple of inches long, crawl- ing up sluice-gates, mill-dams, and other obstacles which would seem impossible to be surmounted by such tiny creatures. THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN.—VII. DIETARY OF YOUTH. The principal stages of growth may be broadly defined as those of infancy—ranging from birth till the age of two years ; childhood—from two to seven years ; and youth— from the latter period until maturity is attained. Through- out these respective stages it is of the utmost importance that the food supplied to the growing frame should be of a nature not only adequate to arrest the cravings of hunger, but likewise to ensure the development of the body and mind. The latter is a consideration of fully as much weight as the welfare of the body, for it has been proved by incontestable evidence that under-fed children are apt to be of puny intellect, whilst those who are rationally nourished usually possess the supreme blessing of a sound mind in a sound body. We have already alluded to the chief articles of food which are suitable to the wants of early childhood; it remains now to consider what changes and additions become necessary to meet the requirements of a more active period of existence. The simple nourishment, con- sisting chiefly of milk and farinaceous foods, so invaluable at an earlier age, needs, in youth, the reinforcement of stronger elements. More meat is necessary, more fat, more bone-forming substances. A dietary which, from oversight or any other cause, is of too uniform a character, however wholesome in its constituents, fails to fulfil the general utility of food, simply because its powers are con- fined to one sphere of action. For instance, there are certain foods, as rice, in which the flesh-forming proper- ties are very small; and there are others, as dry peas, in which the same properties are large. Again, in rice, the bone-fcn-ming properties are only contained in the propor- tion of one-third to what is found in dry peas; yet the food of growing boys and girls is liable to consist more largely of rice than of peas, for no reason, possibly, than that the one is more easily prepared—“ readier to hand ”— than the other. The same illustration may be applied to a variety of foods, which are unwittingly given or with- held, to the benefit or detriment of the growing frame, as pure chance may decide. The chief point to aim at in feeding young persons is variety. Our range of food is unlimited, and the con- sumption should not be restricted to a few articles, except in cases of impaired health. The more we limit the tastes of growing children, the more liable is their digestion to suffer later in life. Many parents, from over-anxiety, con- fine their family fare to what they consider the strictly wholesome, and, by so doing, nauseate the stomachs of their offspring. Others, for the sake of economy, prescribe a certain course of living from one week’s end to the other. The intention is to regulate expenses, but it does not answer in the long run. The appetite soon fails ; certain dishes on certain days are regularly refused by some members, who prefer to eat dry bread, perchance, to the unwelcome stew or soup. But in advocating variety in the selection and use of food, we must caution our readers against suddenly adopting any very material change in diet, as serious consequences have been known to follow too abrupt a departure from an established system of dietary. The error of too exclusive a dietary is most apt to be committed in large schools. Although everything may be wholesome that is set before them, many children loathe some of their meals ; and if they have not the means to buy such substitutes as the “tuck shop” supplies, they fare but badly, and are liable to fall into ill health. An instance of the craving of children for the apparently un- wholesome, and the beneficial change which freedom to in- dulge in such coveted treats effects, occurred a few years ago in one of the largest schools in England. With a view to counteract some ailments which occasionally broke out in the school, the boys were forbidden to buy any sweets, cakes, or fruit. The shop which had been sanc- tioned in the play-ground for the sale of such things was closed, and strict watch was kept to prevent any surrepti- tious articles from being smuggled into the school. Very few weeks had elapsed, however, before the authorities of the school were puzzled by the sudden outbreak of skin- diseases amongst boys of constitutions least subject gene- rally to maladies of the kind. Something wrong in the dietary was suspected. Although perfectly wholesome, it was shrewdly surmised that it might be too exclusive of such things as growing children crave for. The order against “the shop” was rescinded. The boys flocked daily to its stores for sour apples, currant cakes, hardbake, treacle, chocolate, and the innumerable compounds which children delight in. As if by magic, the eruptive com- plaints began to disappear with a suddenness as remark- able as the outbreak had been. Undoubtedly, children brought up in homes where the appetite is pampered by sweets and stimulating diet re- quire a totally different treatment. Curtailment then becomes necessary in most cases. But growing boys and girls at school, and youths prematurely confined during long hours in workshops and offices, have few opportu- nities of similar indulgences. Provided a sufficient interval be placed between meals, and that the food is properly cooked, young people so circumstanced may eat almost anything, and the greater the change of food the better. The best test of the quantity a youth ought to be allowed to consume will be found in his own appetite. When, having vigorously attacked whatever has been set be- fore him, the appetite flags, it is a sign that the meal ought speedily to end, and not to receive stimulating additions. For instance, if a boy, having brought a good appetite to the task, finds it a difficulty to consume the portion of meat allotted to his share, and declares he can eat no more, it is injurious to his health to tempt him to prolong the meal by the offer of puddings, pies, &c. The bait, although irresistible, is injurious and, if often repeated, cannot fail to impair the soundest digestion. Taking advantage of the well-known preference of chil- dren for puddings instead of meat, it is a common practice in some establishments to set the pudding on the table before the joint. Having satisfied the first craving of hunger with the least expensive fare, the meat, from its comparative unpalatableness, is often sent away untasted. Economy of this kind is a great injustice to the constitu- tion of a growing child. Meat, in some form or other, is highly necessary food in our climate daily, especially in the confined atmosphere of town life, combined with ex- cessive activity of mind. Dr. Lankester writes very forcibly on this subject. Having cited historical instances to the effect that those races who have partaken of animal food have been the most vigorous, the most moral, and the most intellectual races of mankind, he adds that “ it is vain for a man to expect to get through intellectual or physical labour with- out an abundant supply of the material of thought and of physical power.” Animal food is the readiest means of securing this supply. As it is with adults so it is with children, with the additional demand in the latter case for extra nourishment consequent on growth. The question, has, however, two sides.