CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. ft -^r Fig, 72. either of his rooms or of the landlord’s furniture, 6cc., but for all beyond ordinary wear and tear he is liable. As his goods may be distrained for the rent of the house, so they may be distrained for his own rent. Formidable as the foregoing enumeration may appear at first sight, it will on consideration be found to include little to terrify those who intend to live in lodgings. People must live somewhere, and wherever it is, they will, if they inquire, find themselves surrounded with liabilities. There are many who are well able to rent houses for themselves who prefer to live in lodgings, and it is not uncommon for them to remain years in the same place. These usually do not keep their own servants, but sometimes they do, and there are houses so arranged that two or more families can live in them without inconvenience. In Scotland, what are called “ lands,” comprising on separate floors, called “ flats,” all the conveniences of a house, are much preferred to “ self-contained houses.” In the metropolis, also, there are springing up blocks of buildings with a common stair, and occupied by separate households. Such o c 1 e.xamples, however, scarcely come under the head of lodgings as commonly under- stood, but they are mentioned here as a sort of compromise, which deserves to be advo- cated in the case of crowded cities. In ordinary cases a single man or woman will do best in unfurnished apartments, but whether they shall board with the family or not must depend upon circumstances. This will be less difficult in a strictly private house than in one more pi'operly called a lodging house. A man and his wife, or any two ladies or gentlemen living together, will commonly do best if they board them- selves. Where there are more than two, or if there are chil- dren, a separate table is alto- gether desirable. When lodgers provide their own food, and only one kitchen is available, fixed hours will be necessary, whether they have their own cook or not. If lodgers find their own bed-linen and table-linen, or other articles, they will pay less for furnished apart- ments. Lodgers must have free ingress and egress, and should possess a latch-key or other facilities for those purposes. They should have keys also to their rooms, cupboards, boxes, drawers, &c., and should use them, and not leave them about as a temptation. They should, of course, be models of regularity, quietness, good order, and so forth, and will usually find their account in it. As for the price of apartments, it varies with position and a hundred other circumstances, so that while two comfortable little rooms may be got for a few shillings a week, the wealthy and ambitious may pay as many pounds for two or three large rooms, and everything in an aristocratic style. The question whether it is best to lodge in a house kept by one who is a professed lodging-house or boarding- house keeper, or with a really private family, is not to be easily settled. Some are violently prejudiced against lodging-house keepers, and others against private families. In truth, there are good and bad of all sorts, and prudent people will look after the good by whatever name they are known. Lodgers are not always perfect, and perhaps their discontent and misery are as often due to themselves as to their landlord or landlady. B 3 Fig. 73- THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—XIII. LOCKS AND DOOR FITTINGS. Before going into the description of the more complete modern locks it will, perhaps,be advisable to touch upon the simpler methods of fastening and securing doors. Perhaps the most primitive, but at the same time most useful for out- door work, is the staple and hasp fastening, which, being of very rough and ready application, and not requiring much fit, is a sort of thing anybody can put up. Suppose a fastening of this kind is required on a garden gate, it is only necessary to screw in the hasp to the gate, and then, holding it up over its place on the gate-post, drive a large staple into the post; a peg, secured by a string or a chain, is slipped into the staple over the hasp, and so secures the gate. Fig. 70 shows the ar- rangement complete ; it is too simple to require detailed de- scription. We come next to the com- mon, or latch fastening, shown at Fig. 71. A bar A, about eight inches or less in length, pivots on the screw B, being kept in its place and limited to a small upward or down- ward movement by the guard C, constitute the fittings on the inside of the door. Into the post D the latch E is driven ; this latch consists of a small piece of iron pointed at the end which drives into the wood, the other end being ex- panded ; as is shown in the drawing, the upper edge is formed into a bevel upwards for a short distance, when the piece is suddenly contracted,, thus forming a notch. The action is evident. The door being shut, brings the end of the bar A in contact with the bevel F of E, and thereby raises it until it falls into the notch, when the- door is quite shut. To open the door from the inside, it is necessary to raise the bar A by the knob or the lever at H ; this lever is carried through the door and termi- nates on the outside in a broad, flat sort of plate, on which the pressure of the thumb is exerted to raise the bar inside. In cases where this projection of the thumb-plate would be objectionable, a sunk iron plate is substituted, in the centre of which is a knob, which being pressed by the finger or thumb, attains the same end. Let us now look into a common cupboard lock, one of the simplest forms of lock used in this country. It consists of only a bar A (Fig. 72) sliding across the framework of the lock, and part of one side being split up into a rude sub- stitute for a spring, B, which has just flexibility enough to allow the notehes in the bar at C to rise out of the frame on pressure upwards being used with the key. The key to this lock is a barrel key, that is, it is tubular, and pivots on a wire in the lock; and on being thrust on this wire, and turned round into the notch in the bar A, the pressure of the key compresses the spring B, and allows the bar to slip over into the other notch. The key will then complete the circle, and come out of the hole.