212 ADVICE TO LODGERS. apartments are a convenience, if not a necessity. On the other hand, a large class finds in the letting of apartments either a means of livelihood or a certain addition to a restricted income. It is very important that persons who come into the relation of landlord and lodger—that is, of landlord and tenant—should know their duties and obli- gations ; we shall, therefore, state a few facts which will be useful to both parties, though they will, perhaps, be most so to the lodger. When apartments are taken for a short limited period, and it is understood that the tenancy expires at the close of it, a notice to quit is unnecessary ; though, without an agreement to the contrary, a regular tenancy is established if the holding is continued beyond the specified time. Even a person who takes lodgings at an hotel for a night ought to give reasonable notice the next day of his inten- tion to depart, or of his wish to remain : much more should this be done if apartments are taken for a longer, though a limited, term. Irrespective of all legal conse- cjuences, those who let or take lodgings will do well to avoid neglect. With regard to an hotel or boarding-house, we need say no more than that the engagements entered into for a night or so are of a fugitive character, and are fulfilled by a lodger who is courteous and otherwise well conducted, and who pays his bill and the customary fees. Our main concern is with arrangements of a more private and permanent character than such as fall within the ordinary category of good entertainment in hotels of all sorts, though even there it is becoming more common for people among us to fix their quarters as on the Continent. Private apartments, as usually understood, are either furnished or unfurnished. Furnished lodgings may involve the partial use of some rooms and the sole use of others, partial or complete attendance, partial or complete cooking, lodging only, or board and lodging ; in fact, it would be difficult to enumerate all the possible variations. Even in the matter of furniture and so forth there is room for considerable diversity, and it is necessary to know what the lodger is expected to provide for himself, as well as what he is expected to do for himself. Differences of requirement and provision will, cf course, influence money terms as really as differences of accommodation and locality. Agreements are usually verbal only, but it is better for security that they should be in writing. A written agree- ment must specify the date of entry, the amount of rent to be paid, how often payment is to be made, and the length of notice to quit, with all other details required by the particular case. Appended to the written agreement should be an inventory of every article belonging to the landlord, and a specification of every defect and imperfec- tion in the furniture, fittings, &c. Where the apartments comprise an entire floor, or suite of rooms, it will be best to ))roceed as in the case of a furnished house, and to employ an experienced and trustworthy house-agent to go over the inventory, and to see that everything is properly done. To constitute the agreement a regular legal document, it had better be drawn up in some orderly form. Memorandum of agreement entered into this day of , i8 , between of of the one part, 3ud of of the other part. The said hereby agrees to let, and the said hereby agrees to rent and take all those apart- ments on the floor {or floors) of the house of the said , situate and being No. , street (or as the case may be), in llie parish of , in the county of , with the use and enjoyment of all easements, appurtenances, furniture, effects, and other things severally set foith and enumerated in the schedule or inventory hereunto annexed. To hold the same from the day of , unto the said , as tenant thereof, from to , at the clear rent of , payable on the free from any deduction ; the first payment to be made on the day of next; the said tenancy to be determinable by either party on giving the other notice in writing to quit. And the said hereby agrees to leave on the premises hereby agreed to be let, at the termination of the tenancy hereby created, all the several furniture, effects, fixtures, and other things enu- merated in the schedule or inventory hereunto annexed, and which are now in or upon the said premises, and are the property of the said ; and also all the glass windows whole and unbroken, except such as are specified in the said schedule. And the said hereby agrees to pay all taxes and outgoings in respect of the premises hereby agreed to be let, to execute all needful repairs, and to indemnify the goods and chattels of the said from and against the same. In witness whereof the said parties] have hereunto set their hands the > day and year aforesaid. ) To such an agreement a witness may be had if thought desirable. Where there is no written agreement, the length of a notice to quit is usually settled by the form of letting or payment of rent. Thus, when let at so much per week, month, or quarter, the notice will be for the same periods, unless custom to the contrary can be proved. A lodger has the right to use the knocker and door bell, the lights and windows in the approaches to his apart- ments, and the water-closet and other conveniences. If he has any doubt about some things, he had better stipu- late for their reasonable use, as a garden or outer yard. He cannot claim to affix a plate, nor to have his name painted or exhibited upon the house without his landlord’s consent. A landlord has no right without permission or just cause to enter his lodger’s apartments ; and if he intrudes upon their use or possession he forfeits his power to recover the rent. A weekly tenant can require a quarter’s notice if the landlord allows his rent to accrue for a quarter and receives it as a quarter’s rent. The landlord can recover arrears of rent if his tenant leaves without notice, even if he advertises for another tenant ; but if he re-lets his apartments, he cannot recover subsequent rent. Where there are no goods, rent and arrears can be recovered in the county court. All persons who take apartments, whether furnished or not, will be prudent to make various inquiries before entering upon an agreement. These inquiries may include the solvency of the landlord, the character of his house and of its inmates, the respectability and healthiness of the locality, the proper supply of good water, and the condition of all the fittings and fixtures, and furniture, if there is any. With respect to unfurnished apartments, it is especially needful to be cautious, because the lodger may find himself liable for actual or future arrears of rent or taxes, due by his landlord. It is particularly annoying if a lodger finds that through his want of caution his goods are distrained for the rent, parochial rates, or other charges upon the whole house. A magistrate in the metropolis can award compensation to the amount of fifteen pounds for wilful damage done by tenants to their apartments. Again, a landlord is not responsible if his tenant loses his goods by fire or theft, unless the lodger can prove th^loss due to want of proper precaution on the landlord’s part. If a lodger refuses to leave after the expiration of his term, his landlord can eject him under warrant from a magistrate, or by authority of a county court. Of course, a lodger cannot remove any fixtures when he leaves, though erected by himself, except those which are known in law as removable fixtures. The lodger is not responsible for ordinary wear and tear