i6 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. chest in this manner, and the work will be found capital practice for a beginner. We now proceed to explain fully the different varieties of the tools, and the uses for which the various forms are specially contrived. In so doing we shall doubtless have to place before our readers many that they Vv'ill not be likely to require, but in order that those who are intending to purchase tools should not be put to unnecessary expense, it is important they should rightly understand what they need and what they need not have. We shall, therefore, at once proceed to the description of the different contents of our tool- chest, explaining as simply as possible the way of using each tool, and the work for which it is adapted, and adding instructions as to the proper way for keeping it in order. Brad-awls.—These are merely pieces of steel wire ground with two faces at the point, which faces meet and form a cutting edge. In use, however, this tool does not cut, but wedges the fibres of wood on either side. The upper end is sharpened and driven into a wooden handle, which has a brass ring or ferule to prevent it splitting. Some awls are square wires sharpened to a point. Coopers’ awls have curved blades. Sets of brad-awls which all fit into one socket, and store away in the handle, which is hollow, and unscrews, may be met with; but being mostly got up cheaply they are seldom satis- factory. Brace and Bits.—Fig. i. is a diagram of an ordinary carpenter’s brace made of wood with brass mountings. It is in principle a simple crank handle. The piece. A, which revolves loose, is rested against the chest; and in the bottom, E, is a square hole, into which the bit is inserted, and held either by a spring catch, or a screw. There are various forms and varieties of this instrument, but the priociple and action are the same. The brace is turned by the right hand, which grasps the part C ; the handle, a, being kept in position on the chest by the left hand. P'ig. 2 is a centre-bit. It consists of a central tri- angular point. A, which enters the wood first and guides the tool ; an arm or knife, E, which regulates the diameter of the hole, cutting the edge cleanly, and a cutter or chisel, C, set obliquely, which follows and pares up the wood into sha\'ings. Centre-bits are of various fixed sizes, but may also be obtained with movable blades, so that by shifting this blade, holes of different diameters may be made with the same cutter. For small holes a gimlet-bit, which is only an ordinary gimlet with a square end made to fit the hole in the brace, and pin and nose-bits, are used. The pin-bit. Fig. 3, is a fluted rod, sharpened at the end like a small gouge ; the nose-bit is like a pin-bit with a small blade turned under, which cuts out the wood ; Fig. 4 is a countersink-bit, used for en- larging holes, or to sink a depression to allow the heads of screws to be buried level with the surface. Augers and screw-drivers are also fitted as bits, and rymers or broaches, for enlarging or making holes taper, are used in the same way. Of drills and the more powerful forms of ratchet braces, we shall have to treat when we arrive at metal work. Chisels.—A common chisel. Fig. 5, is a flat blade of steel sharpened from one side at an angle of about thirty degrees. It is driven into a wooden handle up to the shoulder. In principle all chisels are wedges, and it should be borne in mind that as such they tend to split and tear up the fibre of wood when the shaving cut is too thick to bend to the pressure of the edge of the tool. Paring chisels are much thinner and wider than ordinary ones, and are. used for clearing out deep holes, such as mortices. Fig. 5- Mortice Chisels, Fig. 6, are much stronger and thicker, and are sharpened in the same way, but with an angle rather less acute. Gouges are only curved chisels, and are used in the same manner. Chisels are used either by the pressure of the hand, or by blows of a mallet, the flat side being always kept in the intended path of the blade, which path it regulates and guides. Fioj. 6. The above diagrams show the chisel-blades seen on the edge and from the back. In sharpening chisels they should be ground on the stone slightly more acute than their finished edge is intended to be ; this is in order to reduce the surface, which will have to be perfected or polished upon the oil- stone. In all cases after sharpening it will be found that there is a slight burred or wire edge upon the extreme end of the flat side of the blade which must be removed by rubbing on the stone, taking care to keep the blade down perfectly flat on the stone, or a second bevel will be pro- duced, thereby increasing the angle of the edge, and destroying the keenness of the tool. In sharpening on the oilstone the tool must be firmly held by both hands, and rubbed backwards and forwards, always being traversed in a parallel path, as any approach to a rocking motion would produce a thick rounded edge. Gouges are sharpened in the same way, of course receiving a rolling motion to bring all parts of its edge into contact with the stone. This motion requires some little practice to per- form satisfactorily. The wire edge on the inside of the gouge is removed by rubbing a small round slip of oil- stone against it, but in this case the chisel is fixed and the stone moved. In large workshops stones are kept having hollow grooves in their surfaces, in whichThe round gouge blades are rubbed. Both chisels and gouges are made of v'arious widths and strength; but three or four of each will be found sufficient.