CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE, 159 water, and to apply, under a cap, a little benzine, so as to confine the vapour. This will destroy all the live creatures. Ordinary stavesacre ointment may be used, or an ointment smeared over the scalp for a day or two—7iot rubbed in— of ten grains of white precipitate, to an ounce and a half I of lard, scented strongly; for pediculi hate seems as much as they do soap and water. Tonics must be given to the weak, and pomade scented with oil of lavender should be constantly used to prevent their reappearance. In those who are uncleanly, the remedy is obvious. HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—II. Prussian Exercises.—The players are drawn up in line along one side of the apartment, and are supposed to represent a regiment. On the extreme right of the party a corporal is stationed, and the captain, selected for his knowledge of the game, takes his place, in front. It is his duty to give the word of command for the movements of the line, and he must do this with mock solemnity, how- ever absurd the antics which he orders to be performed. Thus, he commences with the ordinary “ Attention ! Eyes right !” at which all are bound to look straight at the commander ; and he then gives such orders as his own will and experience may dictate. “ Fold arms “Extend arms!” “Slap cheeks!” “Tweak noses!” “ Ground knees !” and similar evolutions, are all to be performed at the same instant by the whole company, under penalty of a forfeit; and the corporal on the right, who has had a previous consultation with the captain, sets the example for the guidance of the rest, where the mean- ing of the order is not clear. At the word “March!” the party must move one foot after the other, as in walk- ing, but without changing position ; at “ Right march !” they move the right leg only, backwards and forwards ; “ Left March !” they do the same with the left. “ Ground, knees!” may be varied by “Ground right knee!” or “ left,’’ and in this case the regiment sinks with that knee to the ground. This is a favourable position for bringing the amusement to a climax, as follows :—When the party are on one or both knees, the order is given, “ Present arms !” which they do by stretching them straight out in front. The next command is “Fire!” and the corporal who is in the secret, then gives his next neighbour a nudge with the shoulder. This causes him, as he is already kneeling, to loose his equilibrium ; and falling sidewise, he brings clown the next person to him, and so on along the whole line, which is thus “ floored ” in a moment. When young ladies and gentlemen are playing together, and it is thought desirable to wind up the exercises in more polite fashion, the word may be given to “ Salute !” The players having been stationed alternately according to sex, each gentleman then salutes his neighbour to the right, to the left, or on both sides, as the captain may order. The Courtiers.—One of the company is selected to be king or queen, and occupies a chair in the centre of the room, the rest being seated round the sides of the apartment. Whatever movement may be made by the monarch must be imitated by the courtiers ; and it is the gist of the game that this should be done without any one losing that assumption of decorous gravity which becomes the scene. The monarch may yawn, sneeze, blow his nose, or wipe his eye, and the courtiers must all do the same ; but if any one of them is so deficient in self-control or so presumptive as to grin or to laugh, he or she must pay the penalty of a forfeit. It is rarely, however, that penalties are few or far between. The Dumb Orator.—This is a very amusing perform- ance, enacted by two persons for the benefit of the rest of the company. One of the two recites a speech, or any popular piece of declamation—“ My name is Norval,” or the like—keeping all the while perfectly motionless, and without a quiver upon his countenance, while the other, standing silent by his side, gesticulates furiously, accord- ing to the emotions called up by the passage recited. Of course, the more closely he follows and burlesques the action natural to the words throughout, the greater the amusement created. There is another way of performing the same oratorical show, namely, by the two players enveloping themselves in the same cloak or wrapper, and the arms of the one—which are all the company are allowed to see of him—keeping up an action suited to the narrative of the other ; but this is more awkward in the performance, and less effective than the method first described. Speaking Buff.—At this game, the eyes of one of the players are bandaged, as in “ blind man,” and he is seated in the centre of the room, the party then taking their places. “ Buff” holds a wand or stick in one hand, and, when all are seated, he points with this to one side of the room, or touches one of the players, at the same time uttering three words according to his fancy. The person towards whom he points must then repeat these words; and if “ Buff” can discover his or her identity by the tones of the voice, he is released from his position, and the person detected takes his place. The Shopkeepers.—This is a good game to exercise a knowledge of the various productions of nature. Each person in the company represents a shopkeeper or mer- chant, who has some goods on hand which he wishes to dispose of; but no two persons may choose the same trade. Any one may start the game—say, for instance, the draper—and he commences, we will suppose, by ob- serving to his next neighbour, “ I have some silk for sale ; is it animal, vegetable, or mineral?” To this the reply would be, “ Animal, for it is the production of the silk- worm.” The correct answer having been given—we will assume by the chemist—the latter turns to the person next him, with an inquiry suited to his trade; say, “I have some glycerine for sale; is it animal, vegetable, or mineral ?” The rejoinder would be, “ Either animal or vegetable, for it may be obtained from either vegetable or animal fat.” The merchant, in his turn, may say, “ I have some shell-lac for sale; is it animal, vegetable, or mineral?” and should receive the reply, “ Animal, for it is obtained from an insect.” So the game goes on, the ingenuity of each, as it proceeds, being taxed to mention some article of his stock, the origin of which may not be within the knowledge of the person addressed. A round or two of the game will rarely proceed without some of the company finding that they have added to their store of general knowledge, as well as derived amusement. Any such in- formation as that contained in the series of papers on The Natural History of Commerce, which appears in the “ Popular Educator,” may be turned to account in sport, as well as in matters of graver moment. The game may be played, either with forfeits as the penalty of an incorrect reply, or by simply restricting the person who does not an- swer correctly from disposing of any of his own articles— that is, from putting any question in his turn—during that round. Twirling the Trencher.—This is a brisk game, requiring activity without ingenuity. A circle is formed in the room, and a good space is left clear in the midst. A trencher or round wooden platter is obtained, or, if such a thing is not available, a small round tray or waiter will best answer the purpose. When all the party are seated, one of the company stands up in the centre and twirls the tray round upon the floor, at the same time calling out the name of any other person present, who must rise and pick up the trencher before it falls to the ground, other- wise he or she pays a forfeit. The person who twirls the trencher returns to his own seat immediately, and the one who picks it up, or has been called upon to do so, has the privilege of making a call afterwards.