CHILDREN’S DRESS. ii6 CHILDREN’S DRESS.—III. CLOTHING FOR INFANTS {continued from p. 90). We promised in our last paper to lay before our readers practical directions for making babies’ long frocks and petticoats. These are not worn so long in the skirt as they were formerly. For full-dress toilette for a baby the skirt of the robe, however, is still very long; and as the needed. Procure also two pieces of tape, one a quarter of an inch, the other three-eighths of an inch wide. Undressed long-cloth should be procured. It can always be had by inquiring for it at a really good shop. The thrifty house- wife will find that she saves ten or twenty per cent, by going to a large, well-established shop, and the trouble and fatigue of a long walk, or the expense of an omnibus, will be amply repaid. When a lady has to go a distance body, including the band, is two and a half inches deeper than the old-fashioned-ones, the difference in the length is not very great. The length of the skirt of a robe thirty or forty years ago was forty inches, and the body three inches. A full-dress robe is now made thirty-six inches long in the skirt, and five and a half in the body. Very pretty robes may be bought ready made for about 14s. or 15s. They should be made of fine Nainsook, at about 2s. fid. or 3s. a yard ; according to the width. It will be the best plan for the young mother to commence by making the petticoats before she attempts the frocks, by which arrangement she will get her hand accustomed to the work. Four white petticoats, and four plain frocks, with three handsomer for best, will be sufficient; but where means allow of frequent change, double the number can be made, and the every-day frocks embroidered also. I'or the petticoats, a fine, thin, soft long-cloth should be chosen, and will cost qd. or a is. a yard. Eleven yards will be sufficient for six petticoats ; a very wide material is not to a shop she should try and make all the purchases needed at once, which may easily be done by keeping a little memorandum-book, and jotting down from time to time the articles required. The petticoat may be made in two ways. First, the sim- plest—Cut off nine breadths, of thirty-four inches each. Split three of these in half lengthways, to make half breadths. Each skirt consists of a breadth and a half. If the material be undressed, soaking alone is necessaiy. Rubbing between the hands, or soaping the work with dry soap, is sometimes sufficient preparation if dressed. It should always be soaped for the sewing-machine. Any dress in the material clogs the teeth of the feeder, and impedes the motion. If the work be soaked it should be ironed whilst damp, and madeVery smooth, otherwise it is not easy to work evenly upon it. Where the selvedges come the breadth and half-breadth of the skirt need only be run together neatly. The other seam must be run and felled. Make a cut down the centre of the half-breadth, seven Fig- 37-