CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 137 The Spade.—This implement is made of three sizes, and it is advisable to have two, for a moderate sized garden; the largest, or second size, to be used for trench- ing purposes, and the smallest for digging amongst the flowering plants in crowded borders. There are two kinds of handles, as shown in Figs. 4 and 5, the second being preferred by many on account of its being more easily wielded. This implement is one which every amateur gardener should carefully select. The Digging Fork., Fig. 3, as its name implies, is used for turning up the soil, and to be really useful should have four prongs. We generally prefer the fork to the spade where the ground is hard, as the points enter with greater ease, and do the work of pulverising or breaking up the clods with better effect. The Sfnall Weeding Fork.—This is invaluable for weed- ing, and lifting bulbous and fibrous roots from one spot to another without injury. A convenient shape is shown in Fig. 10. The Rake, Fig. 6, is used for levelling newly turned up ground, removing, or rather collecting in a body for removal, weeds and rubbish, burying seeds and the like by a series of forward and backward movements. To perform this kind of work, lightness of hand is very essential, as, if clumsily done, an even surface may very soon be made rough. This implement is made of several sizes. The Hoe is of great service for clearing away weeds, thinning the various crops, loosening the surface of the soil, drawing drills, earthing up,&c. It should be handled (when weeding or loosening the soil) something like a chopper, bringing the blade towards you in a slanting position at each blow ; of this tool there are several forms and sizes. That shown in Fig 7 is useful for rough weeding and drill drawing ; Fig. 8 for lighter kinds of work, and Fig. 9 for weeding and thinning such small crops as onions, &c. The Turf-cutter, Fig. i, is a handy tool, and is used for jutting grass turfs, paring, or rather regulating, the edges of lawns, and other similar work. It should be kept sharp all round. The Pick-axe, Fig. ii, although not likely to be used to any great extent in a small garden, is nevertheless useful, and necessary for turning gravel walks, and loosening rubbish that has become too hard for removal by any other means. The Ladder and Garden Steps.—The former. Fig. 12, will be found useful for getting up to tall trees, and climbers on walls, for the purpose of pruning and training ; and the latter. Fig. 13, which is a kind of double ladder, will stand without any other support. This will be of great use for pruning, or gathering fruit from standard trees, against which it is undesirable to rear a ladder, for fear of breaking the young shoots, and injuring the bark. The Daisy Rake, Fig. 2.—This is a very useful instru- ment on a small lawn. By drawing it over lawns studded with daisies the heads or flowers become fixed between the teeth, and thus the lawn can be cleared in a very short time. It may be used also for clearing away dead leaves from the grass. The Hammer for the garden should be furnished with claws, such as we have described in our paper on the Domestic Tool Chest (page 24), for the purpose of drawing out old rusty nails, and training trees and plants on walls. The Roller is, or should be, called into use for keeping the surface of gravel walks smooth, as well as for levelling grass-plots, both of which operations should be performed in damp and cloudy weather. Iron rollers have quite superseded the stone rollers of former days; they are more lasting, easier to draw, and much more effective. The size of your roller must be regulated by the width of your walks and grass-plots. It is well to have one as large in circumference as you can conveniently manage. Clean it carefully after using, and put it in the shed, or somewhere under cover. The axle must be kept well oiled, or it will soon wear and work loosely. The Watering Pot, of which there are several sizes, is for giving moisture to plants in dry, hot weather, with- out which they would certainly suffer severely at times, and occasionally perish altogether. The one which we- figure above, Fig. 14, will be found as convenient in shape as any. The Axe, for felling trees, pointing stakes, and such work, is a necessary item among garden requirements. In buying an axe take care to select one that you are able to use with ease, not too heavy, and well balanced. Nothing is so fatiguing as to work with an awkwardly-made axe, which requires all your strength to wield it. The edge must be well steeled, and the handle of ash. It should not be ground to too fine an edge, and should be kept in order with a smooth, hard rubbing- stone. The Hand-Barrow, Fig. 15.—The chief use of this is to remove potted plants from place to place. The only