204 THE DOG. taining a quart. Add as much corrosive sublimate as will lie on a fourpenny-piece. Then pour on a pint and a half of clean soft water, cold. Cover the vessel and leave it till next day, when the gum will be dissolved, and will nearly fill the vessel. Stir the mass well with a piece of stick—not with metal, because the corrosive sublimate will blacken it. Repeat the stirring several times during the day, when it must be left, and it will form a thick white jelly. It must be kept closely covered, and under lock and key, as the corrosive sublimate is poisonous. It will keep for any length of time if the air is excluded, and if it is not put into a vessel of metal. For paper and many other things it forms a strong and colourless cement; and since it may be always at hand, it may tend to induce persons to do a number of small useful jobs, which would be neglected if paste had to be made. If the above rules are followed, especially about not allowing continued exposure to the air, and not keeping it in metal, it will be very slow to spoil. Blue Wash for Walls.—Take two quarts of lime, a pound of blue vitriol, and half a pound of glue. Thoroughly melt the glue in a quart of soft water. Re- duce the vitriol to powder in a mortar, and put it into a wooden pail. When the glue-water is about cold, pour it on the vitriol, and mix the two well with a stick. Then stir in the lime by degrees. Try the colour by dipping into it a piece of white paper, which, when dry, will show the tint. If too dark, add more lime ; and if too light, add more powdered vitriol. The proper consistency can be secured by means of soft water. It is used like whitewash. THE DOG.—V. FEEDING AND GENERAL MANAGEMENT. When it has been determined to keep a dog, it is very much better to procure a fine pup than to purchase a full- grown animal. It will involve some trouble, certainly; for bad habits will have to be checked and corrected, more attention will be needed, and there will be the possibility of having to nurse it through the distemper ; but in no other way can the full pleasure of the connection be ob- tained, and the full affection of the noble creature be secured. Moreover, the pleasure of training a young dog is very great to both parties, and it is much more satisfac- tory to possess an animal whose habits you have formed, whose disposition you know, and whose fidelity to you rnay be implicitly trusted. Such a dog is also much less liable to be lost or stolen. The animal’s lodging is a matter of no small import- ance, but is very seldom ordered as it should be ; too often any old box is made to do duty, and the conse- quence is a weakly constitution, if not actual disease. The best material is deal or pine, which has a very strong resinous smell, and contains well-marked veins of turpen- tine, over all its surface. The wood ought to be a full inch thick, and be well and tightly joined in the well- known shape, but with what is very seldom seen, the gable roof projecting, at the very least, six inches, both at the sides and back, while the front should project a foot or more, in order to throw off the rain. Of course, if the kennel is to stand under a shed, this will not be necessary ; but it is highly needful in the open air. The whole should be well painted, and, in very wet weather, it is well to throw a large tarpaulin over all. Many people seem to think the dog can with- stand any weather with impunity, and if left at full liberty, it might perhaps be so ; but when chained up, it is posi- tive cruelty not to afford the faithful guardian comfortable shelter. For the same reason, the kennel should stand on four small blocks or bricks, to raise it from the ground and keep it dry. Should the dog become infested with fleas or other ver- min, several bucketfuls of boiling water should be dashed into the kennel, to sluice it thoroughly, and, when dry, it should be painted over with turpentine or paraffin. The animal itself should have powdered sulphur well dredged and rubbed into its coat, which will usually eradi- cate insects ; powdered camphor will do the same. Another method much approved of, is a good washing with soap and warm water, followed by careful combing ; or a little benzine introduced to the skin of the animal wherever the fleas congregate, will drive them out, and if it touches them, will kill them. Tobacco water has been often recommended, but should never be used, as it always makes the dog sick, and spoils the appearance oi the coat. There will, however, be little trouble from ver- min, if the kennel is made of resinous wood, and deal shavings are given for the bed. It is also worth remark- ing that the discovery of any such annoyance need not occasion the commotion in a household which it often does. It is to be removed, certainly ; but the species, both of fleas and lice, which infest the dog, will not live more than a few hours upon a human being, and, conse- quently, need not be dreaded. Feeding.—If few dogs are properly housed, still fewer are properly fed. Some people seem to think they can live with hardly any food at all; others, on the contrary, think that nothing can be too good for them. Ladies’ pets are, as a rule, worst treated of all, if the health of the animal, and not the fancy of the mistress, is the point to be con- sidered. They get their share of every meal, and no exercise after it. When their over-loaded stomachs at last reject further additions, their appetites are coaxed with every delicacy, until at last the poor beasts either go to the dog doctor, or perish in their misery. Dogs are carnivorous animals, and in a state of nature they would have to hunt down their prey with severe exertion. It should also be remembered that their digestive system is very easily deranged. We play all sorts of tricks with our stomachs ; our poor dog cannot. Bad feeding is the sole cause of the strong and offensive odour so often com- plained of in the parlour ; a properly fed dog is never a nuisance in this way. When, therefore, a few simple rules will preserve his health and make him a credit to all con- cerned, it is surely worth while to observe them. And first, a dog should only have one daily allowance. It may be added, that no dog can possibly remain in health if present at every meal with an ordinary family. The head of the house may forbid anything to be given him, but it is of no avail, bits will find their way to his jaws. Indeed, what else is he there for ? if he is to have nothing, he might as well be outside the door. The fact is, if he is in the room, he will have something ; who can resist the poor beggar’s pleading eyes ? who can withstand that touching wag of his tail, as he goes round the table t and the result is, that while each thinks he has given him nothing at all, the dog has really eaten as much in pro- portion as any one at the table. Probably, too, it has been chiefly meat, which a house dog should very rarely have. No : if our dog is to be kept in health, with a glossy coat and entirely inoffensive presence, we must make one con- dition, that, whatever else be his privileges, he be rigor- ously excluded at meal-times. What, then, should be his food ? That will depend upon what he is. For house dogs, the food should be almost entirely vegetable. Oatmeal is good ; so is coarse biscuit, so is boiled rice soaked in gravy. A good plan is to let the staple food consist of oatmeal, or biscuit, and once a week, or even once a fortnight, to boil a piece of liver of the size the dog will eat, and let that be his food for one day only, giving him rice boiled in the liquor for the next It is best given in the evening, when he can have a good sleep after to digest his repast; but whatever time is fixed should be kept with the utmost punctuality. At first, it is best for a few days to put more than enough before the