WAYS AND MEANS. Hints will be given which will enable the cooking to be performed with the most limited appliances, while the best and most improved form of cooking-utensils will also be described. Various methods of preparing food almost unknown at present in this country, but which in other lands are a great boon to those of limited means, will be explained; while a place will also be found for instructions in the serving of the choicest dishes. The Sources of our Food Supply will also be fully discussed in a comprehensive series of papers bearing on this most important question; while the kindred subject of the Nature of our Food—its pro- perties and uses— will not be forgotten. The Inmates of the House will be considered from two points of view. First of all with regard to their position in law and their legal obligations, as standing in a civil relation to each other ; secondly, as to their social position and domestic duties as members of a household. Under the latter head will be found instruc- tions to servants in their various capacities. The articles on Domestic Surgery and Medicine (which will be contributed by professional men of emi- nence) will give merely simple remedies for simple ail- ments, and instructions how to act in sudden emergencies and accidents when medical aid cannot readily be pro- cured ; showing, also, how symptoms which are trivial and unimportant are to be distinguished from those which prognosticate a serious illness, and call imperatively for the doctor’s interference. The question of healthful Exercise—that most sure preserver of health—will receive careful attention; and Calisthenics, Gymnastics, Dancing, Wa,lking, and Riding will all in turn find a place in our pages. While some of our papers on the Toilette will con- tain hints upon various matters of dress and personal adornment, w'e shall give in others instructions on the management of the skin and hair, especially with regard to health and cleanliness—a matter which has by no means received the attention which it demands. A subject of kindred importance, and one about which a large amount of ignorance prevails, is the Feeding, Clothing, and Training of Children ; and we shall therefore treat of these points in detail from an economic, social, and medical point of view. Explanatory papers on NEEDLEWORK and FANCY Work of every kind will be included, while those who recognise the truth of the old proverb, “ All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy,” will find, we hope, a fund of recreation for themselves and their children in our articles on HOUSEHOLD Amusements. Now, when more than at any other time, day by day there is brought more plainly before us the necessity of suitable and remunerative labour for that great surplus of our female population whose services are not needed within their own homes, our work would scarcely be complete unless we to some extent dealt with the ques- tion ; this we shall endeavour to do in a series of articles entitled Occupations Accessible to Women. But to pass now to the outside of the House. In the papers on Gardening wc shall proceed gradually from the most simple operations to those which require the greatest care and most elaborate contrivances, if they are to be carried out successfully. In our papers upon Animals kept for Pleasure and for Profit, we shall begin with articles upon Dogs and Poultry, and afterwards give information as to the breeding, rearing, management, and diseases of other domestic animals. As an essentially practical supplement to nearly all the above-mentioned departments, we shall give a series of papers entitled The Household Mechanic. That nothing may be wanting to the present edition of this work, every subject which—included in previous editions—has also been retained in this, will be thoroughly revised and brought down to the present time, while many new subjects will be introduced. From this, then, which is after all but a brief outline of our plans, it will be seen that our work is intended to be at once comprehensive in scope and e.xhaustive in de- tail, treating in each branch of our subject alike of the simplest necessaries and of the most refined luxuries — furnishing, in the truest sense, a Guide to every depart- ment of the Home, and affording instruction the most valuable and practical to every member of the Household. WAYS AND MEANS.—I. It has been said, that of the thousands who live a little beyond their income, by far the greater number have drifted into their present position. These people have commenced housekeeping with a vague determination to save and to be frugal, and yet in a short time they have found themselves in difficulties. This they have put down to the hardness of the times, and similar stand- ing causes of complaint, when really they owe it to their own want of prudence and forethought, and to their ignorance of how much they can afford to spend. Where there is a fixed income, derivable from whatever source, it is positive dishonesty to live beyond it. Hun- dreds of people make no calculations as to how far their incomes will go, or in what manner their money should be spent. The daily life of the household is of a happy-go- lucky style; the wife has her allowance freely given, sometimes without any consideration of what proportion the amount so allotted really should bear to the entire income ; but by those acting thus, it is soon found that both ends will not meet. “ Once in debt, rarely out of trouble,” for the home itself and all that the word means are neglected, and contention and wretchedness are rife. To live within one’s income means, to a great extent, to be happy, to be independent, to be honest, and often to be strong, for what undermines health more than the constant anxiety which arises from money troubles ? Therefore the question, “ How shall I live within my income?” is a most important one. In order to answer it, it must first be settled what the income is, and this without any consideration of what hope leads us to believe it will be in a little while. So many people make the mistake of living on what they expect to have, rather than on what they have now. It is not every one who can say in precise terms, “My income is—so much but, at any rate, the average can be taken, and as a matter of safety it ought to be the lowest average. When once a man knows what he has to spend, if he would prosper—or rather, if he would avoid ruin—he must so regulate his expenses that they will fall a little below' the sum he can count upoiTJ for by this means only can he save anything out of his income. The sum thus left unapportioned should be devoted to insurance and savings. The necessity that exists that this saving should be made