332 CHILDREN’S DRESS. officers of the order are, (i) the prelate, who is the Bishop of Winchester; (2) chancellor, the Bishop of O.xford ; (3) registrar, the Dean of Windsor; (4) garter principal king of arms ; (5) usher of the black rod. A Knight of the Garter takes the initials K.G. after his name or title. CHILDREN’S DRESS.—VII. children’s clothing (continuedfrom p. 294). Nightgowm.—These should be made as simple as possible for little children. Take a plain breadth of calico at eightpence a yard, long enough for the child. Run and fell it together behind, leaving a placket-hole which must be hemmed. Double it in half, and double again to find the shoulders. Take a slope off; cut a straight slip in the side for the sleeves to be put in. The placket-hole should be open enough. Run and fell the to Fig. 96 in shape, seventeen inches long and twenty wide (double). It is similar in pattern to the one used 'at two years old, but larger; the material is double at the top, so as to form the shoulders. Cut the flaps at the mark at A A, and cut the top of the shoulders straight, in the manner shown there; the three-cornered piece between the shoulder and the flap comes away entirely. The dotted lines at B B show where pieces are applied on the wrong side to strengthen the arm-holes. Two straight bands are cut—each two inches wide and ten inches long —for this purpose, sewn to the edge of the shirt, and then turned down, pinned flat, and neatly hemmed. The flaps must be cut apart at the top, and hemmed round, as well as the edge of the shoulders. The seams should be run and felled before the flaps are hemmed, and left open at the bottom as far as C C. A gusset is inserted at each side at C C, and the open piece hemmed very narrowly. A hem, half an inch deep, round the bottom completes the shirt. (~1 shoulders ; scope out the neck a little in front; set it in a band three-quarters high ; make the sleeves of straight pieces as long as the rows and moderately wide ; run and fell them together. Run and fell the top into the arm-hole, and set the cuff into a band that will slip over the child’s wrist; then run a string round the top band ; the bottom having been previously hemmed. The nightgown may be worn this way, or it may be gathered into a band sewn on at the waist in front as far as the arms, and lined with a similar band on the wrong side. The band in front is in one, with a pair of strings piped and lined, that button or tie behind, but quite loosely, Fig. 99. In winter, a flannel gown is desirable for so young a child, made the same way, of Welsh flannel. If desired, the neck and wrists of the child’s gown may be edged with em- broidered work ; but it is quite unnecessary. A child should have half a dozen longcloth nightgowns, and four flannel ones, as they require frequent changes. Fig. 99 shows the gown made to button on one side. Fig. 98 is a summer dress. There is first a fine Swiss muslin skirt, with a number of minute tucks edged with a deep embroidery. A sash should be worn with this, with a large bow behind. The body and sleeves are plain. The berthe sets out nicely over the sleeves, and is made with three rows of tucks and spaces alternately. It is edged with embroidery and so is the neck. There are bows on the shoulders to match the sash. Fig. too shows the back of the frock, and the sash. CLOTHING FOR CHILDREN OF SIX YEARS. For a little boy of six years old, cut a Shirt according Drawers for Boys are not only larger, but vary from those used at an earlier age. Each leg is cut separately. The material must be doubled on the straight side of the leg from A to B (Fig. 93), and here it is eighteen inches long, allowing for a hem and three tucks. But we recommend mothers, as children grow fast, to cut the drawers two inches longer, and dispose of the additional length in a way we shall presently describe. The measure, with the allowance made, is twenty inches from A to B, eleven from C to D, eight and a half from B to E, eleven and a half from F to G, and fifteen and a half from H to D. Run and fell the leg together from E to D. Round the end, from B to E, make an inch wide hem, and above it, three-quarter inch tucks. Cut a slit down the side from A to a. Make a quarter-inch wide hem on the front side, and a very narrow one towards the back. Stitch the wide one across the other. Make the other leg, and then run and fell them together from c to D, going right round the other side from D to C. Lastly, set them in the bands, one for the front and one for the back—the front thirteen and a half inches long, the half inch to turn in; and the back fourteen inches, one half inch of which is turned in. Make a button-hole in each side of the front band, and one in the middle (shown in Fig. loi, at A A a), but only at the two ends of the back. The drawers are now completed. To shorten them for use, make a tuck near the top of each leg, rather better than half an inch wide, at B B B B, and from C to C, on both sides, rather less than half an inch wide. As the child grows, these tucks can be let down, either entirely, or narrowed to make the drawers longer. A Stay Bodice is the next article required. Measure the