23S HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS. lower the buttons. The petticoat is buttoned on higher up than the drawers. Cut the drawers from Fig. 70. Each leg is cut sepa- rately, measuring four and a half inches across, from D to D (doubled, or nine inches open), five inches and three- quarters, or six inches, from E to E (doubled), and four inches (doubled) from F to F, sixteen and a half long from D to F, nine inches from D to G, and on to E. Run and fell each leg together on the sloped side, from E to F; then join them together down three-fourths of the length of the front, leaving the rest of the front and all of the back open, hemmed each side as narrow as possible. Cut open the sides from D to H and hem them narrowly, putting in a little gusset at the corner. Make a hem and four tucks, each a quarter of an inch wide, with scarcely any space between ; then set the front, in a band twelve and a half inches long, the half inch to be turned in at the ends, and two inches wide, the half inch to make the two turnings. To do this pin the top of the drawers to one edge of the band, run together, fulling it a little to get it in; then turn down the opposite edge of the band, turn it over and pin down on the wrong side of the drawers, turning in the ends also ; hem it neatly down, and sew the edges. Cut two bands, each six and a half inches long and two wide ; run and hem them on to the two halves of the back, in the same way as with the front band ; make large button-holes at seven places, to fasten the drawers to the stay bodice. Stout children may require the drawers longer in the body from the slanting line, D to E, in Fig. 70, or only longer at the back; in either case the back only, or both pieces, are cut by the dotted line, D to M, in Fig. 70, which slopes upward. If they are wanted wider, the width must be allowed from D to D and E to E; and the leg also, F to F, it will be well to increase in proportion. This may be done by taking the sloping and curved lines on one side of the leg, D to E and E to F, an inch or an inch and a half longer (doubled). The flannel petticoat is the next article of clothing. This should measure nine or ten inches long made up, allowing two inches for a tuck and one for a hem, that is, twelve inches in all. It is well to make a new one with two tucks, or fourteen inches long. One width of flannel suffices. Run and fell the back together. Fig. 56, half way up ; make a wide hem on one side and a narrow one on the other for the rest of the seam, folding the wide one over the other, and stitching it down across at A. Make an inch-wide hem and then one or two tucks, according as the material has been allowed. The child’s waist, over the stay bodice, must be measured, and the shirt box- plaited into a two-inch wide band, half an inch of which is allowed for turnings. Five button-holes are made in the band at the five e’s in Figs. 56 and 58, which also show the plaiting. There is one button-hole in the centre in front, one exactly over each hip, and two at the two ends behind ; these last two are fastened on the one button at the back. A yard and three-quarters of fine Welsh flannel is sufficient to make four flannel shirts, which will be needed. It must be sloped a little in front before setting it into the band. The next items in the child’s wardrobe are its white petticoats. Two widths of longcloth, of a fine quality, measuring thirty-seven inches long, will be recpiired. The exact width of the long-cloth to an inch does not signify, but it should not be much wider. The length of the skirt is ten inches. To each breadth allowance must be made for the width of the hem ; for a half-inch hem, half an inch ; a half-inch tuck an inch, because the tuck is double. The simplest way to make the skirt is with a hem and three tucks, each an inch wide. That, with the turning in of the hem and at the top, makes eighteen inches, or half a yard ; that is, a yard for each skirt ; half a yard for the body and sleeves will probably be sufficient. Either run and fell, or sew the skirt seams together. For tucks, sewing is the neatest and best. Make the hem and tucks with half an inch space between each. Cut open a slit down the back for the placket-hole, half the length of the skirt. Make a broad and a narrow hem on the respective sides, as shown in Fig. 62. Stitch the broad over the narrow where they meet at A. Petticoats may be made with a number of narrow tucks, like Fig. 65, and three narrow and a broad one alternately, for variety. Sew the gathers larger at the back and closer, and finest of all and plainest in front. Over the hips they are between the two in size and fulness. They are sewn to the body, after being first pinned to it. To make the body, cut the fronts and two backs like Fig. 67. From A to B the body mea- sures six inches. To make the size of the body more easily intelli’ gible, we give the following instructions : draw an oblong on paper, measuring nine and a half inches wide, by twelve long, G G G G. From c to H, down the centre, there is a space of three inches; measure and mark this with a large dot. The shoulders rise to the top. It is easy to draw the undulating line thus assisted. From the side at D to the line E there is a space of an inch. Dot it, and get the curve of the waist. From G G to i i, under the arm, the length is five inches. The backs are cut from first drawing the oblong of nine and a half inches high, and six and a half inches wide. The slope at the neck is two and a half indies, the shoulder meeting the top line G. Draw the slope at the waist; the back measures five inches under the arm, and five and a half at the back. Having drawn these pictures on paper, cut them out, and the longcloth by them. Both backs are alike, but reversed, lefts and rights, as with shoes and gloves. In longcloth, which has no right or wrong side, this does not matter. Run and fell the side seams and shoulders of the body together. Hem the back an inch wide. Hem the top and waist each half an inch wide, and run strings to draw in both. A few buttons should be placed up the back also. The sleeve. Fig. 59, is eight and a quarter inches long and two inches and a half wide in the broadest part, and two inches at the narrowest. Run and fell it together underneath, run and fell it into the armhole, using a quarter of an inch for this purpose, and make a hem at the edge, a quarter of an inch wide, and edge it with narrow work or lace. Be sure in cutting the body not to shape the armholes too large. They can always be increased from every side but the shoulder, which must not be made too narrow. An inch should be allowed in cutting for the shoulder width, one quarter to fell to the sleeve, one quarter to turn down for the hem, one quarter for the inner turn of the hem, and a quarter left for the strap when completed. The quantities for turning were allowed in the measurement given in Fig. 67 and Fig. 69. Fig. 60 shows the sleeve ready to be felled in. A in Fig. 71 illustrates the manner of putting in the sleeve. The right side of the sleeve is outwards, and put in at the right side of the body, as it would be if worn. But it is run and afterwards felled from the back, according to the diagram at A. HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—V. Among games well suited to a mixed company, and capable of giving rise to considerable merriment, a place must be accorded to that known as The Newspaper.—This may be played either as a forfeit game or otherwise. One of'-^;he party is appointed to “read the newspaper;” the others, seated before him, assume to be members of different trades and professions— lawyer, doctor, draper, grocer, &c. The I'eader takes up any paper that may be at hand, and selects some passage for perusal. The peculiarity of the game is, that whenever he pauses and looks at any member of the company, that -i I 1 pi ti 11 SI li( III an ‘ 11 )oi as in 1‘fit als Ev ol B W fc me »l t o( ! pre * all 111 )■« k