353 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—XIII. MODELLING IN CLAY FOR AMATEURS {Contd. from f. 346). A Medallion.—We will now turn to another and quite different branch of the art, and show how a medallion portrait may be modelled. Medallions are sometimes of clay an inch in thickness on board, and, having scraped it to a perfect plane, to use it as a background. This should be prepared a day or two before it is wanted, that time may be allowed for it to set. Then take the com- passes and strike out a circle which will be the circumfer- ence of the proposed medallion. The size is, of course. BUST FREPARED FOR CASTING. made which show the full or three-quarters face, and are occasionally modelled in high relief (that is, are almost detached from the background); but these, to be at all satisfactory, de- mand great skill and know- ledge. The most simple and generally pleasing form is that shown in our engraving, inwhich the head is modelled in profile, in low relief, on a round or oval background. This is a style of portrait which is by no means diffi- cult, and one which looks well, if carefully modelled and neatly framed, in any room ; but some judgment is required in the hanging, for the modelling will not show properly in a wrong light. As a rule, a profile- medallion should be hung with the back of the head turned towards the window. The first requisite will be a level substance for the background. A smooth piece of slate or plaster of Paris is sometimes used, and in most respects answers well; but as slate and plaster are different both in colour and texture from the clay, they do not admit of the latter being blended into them at the outline in a soft and artistic manner ; and, therefore, if a highly finished work is desired, it is better to spread a slab BUST.—J. L. TOOLE, ESQ., COMEDIAN. (Modelled hy F. Scarlet Potter.\ a matter of taste, but from seven to ten inches dia- meter is recommended, with- in which limits the length of the head should be from four to five inches. Place the “ sitter ” (the person whose portrait is to be taken) in such a position that his head may be on a level with that of the modeller, and that the light may fall upon the side of the face to be copied, rather from the back. It will be found most easy to work from the left side of the face, with the features to the left hand of the spectator,, as the face of the queen is- shown on the coins of the present reign ; and supposing this side to be chosen, the light must fall upon the sitter from the modeller's right hand. The light on the model should be as nearly as possible the same. While the work is going forward the sitter should remain steadily in one position, and, when necessary, intervals may be allowed for rest. The first step will be to take one of the sharp- pointed tools, and scratch on the clay an outline of the head and so much of the neck and bust as is intended to be shown. If the slate ground is used this must be done with slate-pencil ; if plaster, with charcoal or a soft MEDALLION.—J.S. REYNOLDS, ESQ., HON. SEC., HOME AND COLONIAL SCHOOL SOCIETY. (Modelled by F. Scarlet Potter.) 23—N.s.