GARDENING. 82 care should be taken to have the drainage act quickly, as although the plant should be well supplied with constant moisture, it must not get clogged with tuef earth. If the flowers of the hyacinth begin to show before the stem has sprung up far enough to let them develop fully, you can force its growth by twisting a paper funnel and placing it over the plant; flowers always seek the light, so the hyacinth will strain to reach the greatest light as shown by the aperture at the top of the funnel. By the time your bulbs have finished flowering there are many pretty spring flowers ready to blossom, so we will suppose you have been preparing a stock of prim- roses, violets, ranunculus, anemone, Indian pink, forget- me-not, and lily of the valley. Of these. Primroses are perhaps the most popular, reminding as they do of country lanes ; they require no farther care than good drainage, and to be planted in light soil mixed with leaf mould. Violets we have already described. Ranunculus, Anemone.—These are treated in the same manner as the single anemone mentioned before. Indian Pink, Forget-me-not.—Sow in November, thin out if too thick, keep cool and dry. Lily of the Valley.—Take close plump roots and pack tightly in the pot, shake in a light sandy soil, and place in a saucer constantly half-full of water. To follow the early spring show you have a large and veiy beautiful family of flowers, known as annuals. We scarcely need say that an '' annual ” is a plant which is sown, blossoms, goes to seed, and dies in a year. Some annuals, it is true, may be made to live on for several years, but this is only by coaxing nature into an unusual course, by picking off the buds, or pruning back. The annuals suitable for our purpose are those not requiring artificial heat, and therefore designated hardy and half-hardy ; of thsse the following list will suffice to keep up the summer supply :—Mignonette, lobelia, mesembiy'anthemum, portulaca, balsam, cocks- comb, convolvulus, anagallis, calandrinia, nemophila, and mimulus. The treatment of these small-seeded annuals is alike. Sow in March or April under a pane of glass, thin out, and transplant when large enough. They will then be ready to fill your window in June, or even the end of May, and continue flowering until the harder wooded perennials are ready. Of these, the favourite sorts suit- able to the window are :—Pelargoniums of various sorts, fuchsia, salvia, and calceolaria. For low-growing plants to fill up the case, you should keep up a supply of lobelia, musk, and moss. Mignonette never comes amiss for an odd corner, and the common wild mosses, grown in flower-pots, form a lovely relief to the bright colours of the geranium. Pelargoniums, usually known as geraniums, are pro- pagated by cuttings made from March up to the end of August. The scarlet geraniums are not quite so suitable for window gardening as the large florists’ geraniums, which grow lu.xuriantly in the house, and often, too, under the most adverse circumstances. In taking cuttings you should select well-ripened stems, removed as far as possible from the flowering shoot ; let them be about three inches in length, and cut across a joint with two or three joints above ; the cutting should not be sunk deeply in the soil, an inch is quite deep enough. Pelargoniums require forcing every year ; first you must prepare them for the operation by hardening the wood in the open air. When they have been out of doors three or four weeks, cut back the young shoots, giving the plant the form required ; this is the fittest opportunity for cuttings, as you then make a better selection, and do not damage the plant. After pruning, the plant should be kept pretty dry until the young sffioots break away, then they must be re-potted into sandy loam, leaf mould, and fibrous earth. Take care to nip off any decaying roots, water freely, and shade from the glare of sunlight. Plants re-potted in February will flower in June, and you can go on, keeping up a con- tinuous show by merely taking care to re-pot at proper seasons, beginning when the plant is young, or by nipping off the first young shoots, thus obliging the parent stem to send out fresh flower stems. Fancy or dwarf geraniums are much grown now, and if nicely pruned form lovely little shrubby plants. These require more water while sprouting, and should have smaller pots in proportion, while the addition of a little heath soil is a great advantage. The best time to make cuttings of any geranium is in March and April, and then you should take the little side shoots, and having struck re-pot them once or even twice during the summer. Before leaving the subject of propagation by cutting, we must impress upon the window gardener that to have a good strong plant to stand the winter he must strike his cuttings not sooner than Alarch or later than June. Some of the fancy geraniums bloom almost continually. This is a grand object to achieve in a window garden, so we advise our readers to buy a plant of Gaines’ scarlet, Rollisson’s purple, or the Prince of Orange, a strong young plant, any one of which may be had for three or four pence at a nursery gardener’s ; and here let us observe that the first outlay is the last, as a good stock can always be kept up by propagation, or exchange. Those geraniums which are kept in foliage all the winter require con- siderable care ; the leaves will grow yellow and drop off if you do not keep them moist, which is best done by syringing, or washing delicately leaf by leaf with a small sponge or bit of flannel, an operation which can be easily done after the day’s work, if you are careful to draw the plant-case into the room, and avoid any chance of frost catching the damp leaves. While plants are blooming,, care should be taken to keep them moderately moist. Fuchsia.—There is nothing more graceful or ornamental than this queen of window plants, and on the whole nothing more simple in its cultivation. Propagated like the pelargoniums from cuttings, the plants require much the same treatment, that is to say, re-potting, pruning, and hardening. One thing, however, the fuchsia is more greedy of, and that is water; you can scarcely water a healthy plant too much, always understanding that the pot has a quick and thorough drainage. Give all the air possible, and when the lovely bells fall and the leaves turn yellow put the plant out of doors to drink in life and vigour from the pure breath of heaven. Take care however, that it does not get frost-bitten ; prune and remove into smaller pots for the winter in October or November, and set it somewhere where neither frost nor excessive damp can reach it. In March, when the plant is shooting, you must form it carefully. Slips ■ pulled off close to the old wood in April will strike well, and make neat plants for flowering in autumn ; the parent plant must be re-potted in a slightly larger pot, and kept well watered by syringing the stem, rather than deluging the root. The best form in which to train a fuchsia is that shown in Fig. I. The plant throws out more graceful branches, and takes up less room in the winter ; the stem will go on growing until it attains a considerable thickness. Liquid manure is good for fuchsias while they are preparing to bud, but should not be given after flowering, and the flowers should never be wetted, or they will drop off before their time. Salvias.—The scarlet, by proper management, may be contemporary with the chrysanthemum as well as the pelargoniums, and all the precaution necessary is to top your cuttings taken in early summer, and force the plant to go over its preparation for flowering again.