GARDENING. 58 moulding-tool, and smear with liquid glue, to keep the parts firm, then size and varnish. Lemons, apples, melons, plums, or any similar fruits, are formed in the same manner. Pears, figs, or such shaped fruit, require casting with the apex at one end and the base at another. Cherries are irvade in a similar way to grapes, which we described in our former article. Walnuts should be made by forming a mould of gutta- percha from the half, and pressing in the moist leather as usual, then filling up and varnishing. Filberts are very effective when made, and are thus produced :—Crack several nuts, and choose as many half pieces as you can ; cut the edges smooth with a knife, and there is the mould ready. Lay one of the halves upon a piece of basil, run a pencil round the edge, and cut out the piece, which should then be dipped into water and pressed into the half-shell mould and set aside to dry; when dry, fill up with leather in the manner described for a peach; remove from the mould, then glue the two halves together, rub the edges down, and the nut is finished. The bract is made by taking the natural bract of the nut, as in Fig. ii, laying it on the leather, and cutting it out from it. The base of the nut is glued to the centre, and the rest of the leather is brought round the nut so as to give as natural an appearance as possible. When several have been formed, they should be glued together by their bases, to resemble a cluster, and the stem and leaves, which are formed in the usual manner, affixed and arranged according to Nature’s own design. C7trrants, are formed in the same manner as ivy-berries. Strawberries are constructed like grapes, but of course the shape is different; and, when the fruit is finished, the seeds are imitated by digging up the leather with the sharp point of a pen-knife ; it is then fastened to its calyx with glue, &c. Raspberries and Mulberries are formed by rolling up slips of smeared leather until they are the size of the seeds, and having previously formed a pyramidal piece, the seeds are to be fixed to it until they are clustered into the proper size and form. The mass is then to be fastened to the calyx, previously cut out by pattern, and attached to the stem as usual. Wheat is made by rolling up leather strips, and cover- ing the seed with small oval chips, rendered concave by means of pressure, and fastening them to a zig-zag strip of leather. To make Leather Figures.—Choose a good plaster of Paris cast, or a statue, and proceed as follows :—Oil the figure well with sweet oil, and having warmed a sheet of gutta-percha by immersion in hot water, press it firmly with a cloth into every part of the cast required ; allow it to cool, and remove it carefully. The mould is then to be oiled inside, and the leather (having been previously stretched) should be dipped into cold water and after- wards pressed into the mould, the inside to be filled with leather chips, as in the fruit process, and, when dry, re- moved ; but I recommend that a couple of lessons be taken in this as well as in the modelling of flowers ; as to excel in this, the highest order of leather mo- delling, practical demonstration is better than verbose descriptions. Bee-hives can be made with leather stems as follows ;— Cut a piece of wood to the shape and size required ; wind and glue upon it the stems, beginning at the top and finishing off at the bottom. To join the stems, cut each end to an angle, so that they fit; join them with liquid glue, and tie a piece of thread round to hold them tightly together till the glue is dry, when the thread can be cut off. To imitate the tying," mark with a pen, with the darkest stain, lines and dots from top to bottom, cut a little bit out of the lower tier to make the entrance, and make a handle at the top with a piece of stem. And with this example of indtistry we will conclude our lesson on leather work. It will be observed that the instructions we have given have been merely rudimentary, teaching the reader how to form imitations in leather of single natural objects. We may, at some future time, give some designs for the grouping of these together, for the purposes of house- hold decoration. Such groupings may, of course,be infinite in their variety, according to the shape or requirements of the object the leather-work is intended to ornament. Frames for pictures, and mirrors, brackets, bookstands, and similar articles, are good subjects for the artist in leather-v/ork to try his hand upon, and may be rendered highly ornamental by a tasteful employment of this simple but effective branch of the household decorative art. GARDENING.—III. THE SMALL SUBURBAN GARDEN. Among the many thousands of houses which have been built during the last few years in the neighbourhood of our large towns, few are without some small patch of ground which may be turned to account for flowers. There may not be room for an extensive and showy display, but there is usually enough, either at back or front, to make an ornament to the house, and to afford some degree of amusement and interest to the owner. What to do with these small plots, is the difficulty with many who are without gardening experience, and have little time to acquire it, and consequently we very often find such spaces either very injudiciously filled, or neglected altogether. We shall try to put our readers in the way of making a flower garden, even if the space at their dis- posal be only a few yards in extent, and this at a very small outlay of either money or labour. We must ask our readers to keep in view the hints we gave in our last paper, as to the planning of the small garden, and the preparation and improvement of the soil. Taking these as a starting-point, we will suppose the beginner to have put his piece of ground in order by clearing away rubbish, well turning and breaking up the soil, and importing mould if necessary. For getting the ground ready, if it has ever been used as a garden before, he will find a three-pronged fork far more useful than a spade. It will be more effective in its work, while at the same time it is more easily handled. But, in selecting either spade or fork, do not choose a large or heavy implement. Select a tool that you can wield with ease, for by so doing you will be able to go over far more ground in a given time, than if you chose one which apparently would turn up a great deal more at a stroke, but would entail in its use a degree of fatigue which might soon compel you to desist altogether. People very often fancy that it is necessary to get tools for their work of the same size and weight as those which a regular gardener is in the habit of using, but this is a mistake. With such operations as trenching, manuring, and making pits, all of which are most important, and will require a full explanation, it is not our purpose to deal at present. Our readers who may desire information on those subjects will find it as we proceed ; it being our intention to describe all the various gardening operations in their regular order, as they are successively required. The ground prepared, it has next to be laid out. There must be the space in which the flowers are to be grown, and—what it is equally important to provide for—the means of getting at the flower-bed or beds from all points, for planting or cultivation. A small, garden should have small beds ; but it is a common mistake to make one large bed in such a place, usually in the form of a circle or an oblong square. If the garden is surrounded by an open fencing, the best arrangement is a flower border running round three of its sides, with a walk up the centre.