282 COOKERY. fourth the stitch is kept under the thumb-nail, but quite short, and one tight overcast is made across it, close to the braid, thus fastening it and making a sort of pearl- stitch, like that in a pearl-edging ; this is repeated to the end of the straight braid. Next, all the open portions of the design must be filled up with fancy stitches, and of these there is such a variety as almost to baffle description. However, we will attempt to particularise some, and hope, with the aid of the designs, to make them tolerably intelligible. Fig. 4. This may be used for the trefoil, and is done by stretching threads across from one inner edge of the braid to the other, in lines at right angles to each other, the one ■ set being done ah one way first, at about the distance given in the pattern; the other, all the other way afterwards ; then are commenced diagonal lines, and at the meeting of the lines, or where they intersect each other, after doing one overcast to keep the threads together, the needle and thread are passed under and over the threads, until a tiny wheel is formed, after which the thread is proceeded with diagonally to the next intersecting or meeting point, where a wheel is again worked and the thread con- tinued as before, until the opposite braid is reached, beginning again at the next point with the diagonal lines and wheels as before. A second set of diagonal lines may be made Fig in the opposite so as to cross those already and in when the wheel reached, the needle must be passed under the In parts where the two near to , each Fig. 2. other, it will be best to work plain bars of fine thread at intervals of about a quarter of an inch, as at Fig. 3. A very pretty and simple open stitch for filling in is Fig. i. This is merely the single overcast, done quite loosely and with- out the fastening stitch, in rows, one under- neath the other. This may be varied by Fig. 5, in which three “ open overcasts” are worked together on the plain thread, which is rather longer than the usual stitch, so as to make a larger space for the reception of the three stitches alternating with it. This may be worked backwards and forwards, or the thread may be sewn over, to take it back to the left side each time a row is commenced, and in that case a sewing-over or seam stitch, should come between each of the three overcasts, and three seam stitches on the plain thread. A variety in Fig. 2 may be made by using only the intersections of the threads stretched at right angles for the wheels, and entirely leaving out the diagonal lines, and then the intersections must be reached by seam stitches on the single parts of the thread. In the larger spaces for open work in this design, two or three different stitches may be introduced, but care must be taken that the joining be neat, and the stitches fitted into each other as well as may be. We should recommend that three \andykes be traced out for each pattern required, which may, of course, be continued to any desired length, as the design v/ill be found to fit, so as to be easily pro- ceeded with. This style of pattern is very suitable for a chimney-piece trimming, the flat slab being concealed by a board to fit it, covered with crimson cloth or furniture- velvet, and the work forming the border which hangs down round the edge of the board on a plain piece of crimson velvet; the latter should be cut up between each Vandyke, and tacked underneath to form the same shape as the lace. If about three or four Vandykes be worked;, a handsome bracket may be made by nailing the lace round the edge of it, over crimson velvet arranged in the same manner as for the bordure de chemine'e, and a banner- screen of the same material looks remarkably handsome with this lace laid upon it at the lower edge, also cut up to fit it. As a border for a table-cover, it is very effective when placed over crimson velvet. It may again be used as a trimming for curtains, or ■portieres of velvet or wool reps. In work- ing a length of it, the fancy stitches should, in each repetition of the design, be varied, to prevent entire sameness. We may in a future article give another Vandyke of the same di- mensions as the present one, and which may be used alternately with the latter for any of the purposes we have mentioned ; our space pre- vents its appearing in this paper. Considerable variety may be allowed in the working of this pattern, and very much must be left to the taste 1 and fancy of the worker. Instead of working the “ open over- cast,” an open- edged braid may used for this design; but it is rather difficult to one suf- ly wide and close in tex- ture to look well. In fact, in this, as in many kinds of fancy work, the learner will find that, after a little practice, she will be able herself to vary successfully many patterns from which she has copied, and, indeed, to invent patterns for herself, suitable in size and character to the place they are intended to decorate. The oppor- tunity which lace-work thus affords for the exercise of individual ingenuity and taste is certainly not the least of its recommenda- tions. We propose to give further hints upon this subject in a future paper, introducing several other patterns and different kinds of stitches, and showing more in detail than we have done already the different ends to which this ac- complishment may be turned, w'hether on the decoration of the home or the adorning of the person. Fig- 4- COOKERY.—XVII. FISH SOUPS {co!tiinued/ro7iip. 261). . White Eel Soup.—Set a saucepan of water on the fire; season with salt, whole pepper, a blade of mace, a strip of lemon-peel, and a bunch of the most fragrant sweet herbs at your command. When it boils, throw in the eels. As soon as they are done enottgh (and they are spoiled if done too much), just enough to let the flesh come away from the bone, take them out, split them in two, and remove the bone. Each length of eel will thus make two pieces, which should be left entire. Set them aside. Chop fine three or four white onions. Roll a