250 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. discharged into the drain outside the house. No doubt this would be an excellent plan, as it would, in a great measure, prevent much annoyance to the inmates of a house; but, unfortunately for many reasons, it is very difficult to carry out, more particularly in towns, where the water-closet is often placed in the yard, or in the rear of the house, and has to be connected with the main sewer which runs along the street in front. We think, however, that the inconvenience of the plan now generally adopted in towns, viz., of carrying the drain through the house, is capable of being reduced to a minimum by simply adopting ordinary precautions, and seeing that the work is thoroughly and efficiently carried out. We have endeavoured in these remarks upon drainage to render the subject as intelligible as possible to our readers. In conclusion, we would again say that it is a matter that should never be neglected, and we earnestly recommend any of our readers who may intend purchasing, renting, or building a house, to ascertain that at least three conditions have been fulfilled with regard to the drainage:— 1. That the house has a separate and distinct drainage, properly connected with the main sewer. 2. That the house drain is efficiently constructed of proper stoneware pipes laid to a sufficient fall. 3. That all connections with the drain are properly trapped to prevent the escape of foul air. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.- XIV. GAS. A PROPER and correct understanding of the composition of gas, and the best appliances for the obtaining of arti- ficial light and heat from it, is one of the most important branches of domestic economy ; and when we consider the frightful waste resulting from a want of appreciation of its principles, and of the danger of fire or explosion which may arise to a community from ignorance or care- lessness on the part of any single individual, we feel sure that it is impossible to make the subject too plain, or to bestow too much attention upon it. How many lament- able accidents would have been avoided, even by a most superficial knowledge, it is needless to mention ; but we feel that few people appreciate the necessity of economy of gas as its real importance and magnitude would war- rant. Coal gas is obtained from various kinds of coal by distillation at a great heat, different varieties of that mineral producing more or less economical results. We do not, however, intend even to touch on the manufacture of gas in the present paper, although we may in some future paper give sufficiently clear instructions to enable those of our correspondents who live in neighbourhoods where gas is not procurable, to make it for themselves. We have here to deal with the consumption of the manu- factured article in the best possible way. Nor is it for us here to deal with the chemical composition of gas, except just so far as is absolutely necessary in order to understand the principles of its combustion, though we shall have, in the course of our article, to consider the use of gas in the house, whether for warming or lighting, and its bearing on the health of the occupants. Coal gas, or carburetted hydrogen, is a certain known combination of the gaseous element hydrogen and par- ticles of carbon in a volatile form. Other elements mixed with the gas in its first stage of manufacture are, to a certain extent, although not altogether, cleared away in the after process of purification. Pure hydrogen, by itself, is incombustible, and will only burn when in combination with oxygen gas or atmospheric air containing oxygen. Again, pure hydrogen, when burnt in combination with air, gives only a very small amount of light, yet it evolves great heat ; but when a proper amount of car- boniferous particles are mi.xed up and burnt with a suffi- cient quantity of hydrogen to make them perfectly incandescent—that is, white hot—the greatest possible light is obtained. We therefore see that we can burn gas in two totally opposite ways, one object being to produce perfect combustion, and the utter consumption of the carbon therein contained, thereby obtaining the greatest possible amount of heat; the other being the burning of hydrogen and oxygen in just such proportions as will produce the greatest incandescence in the par- ticles of carbon, and consequently the greatest light. Let us illustrate this by a simple experiment. Light an ordinary burner, turn it up to the best light it will give, and examine it closely. At the lower portion of the flame an intense blue colour appears for some distance up, where the heat of the combustion has been sufficient to liberate the innumerable lolid particles of carbon, and to make them white hot. Now turn up the burner to its highest extent, and, if the pressure is sufficient, the gas will rush out with violence, >combining with the air imperfectly, the carbon not being exposed to the heating action sufficiently long to become incandescent. It will thus be seen that the quantity of gas consumed is no cri- terion to the amount of light produced. If ffiis fact is borne in mind, it will explain the reason for the precise forms of gas-burners we shall have to refer to hereafter. It will be necessary, for distinction’s sake, to divide the whole subject into two heads—viz., lighting by gas and heating by gas. Let us, however, first look into the more practical question of getting a supply of gas to burn, and examine the network of pipes which bring it to us, before we go too deeply into theory. We will suppose that our reader has taken a house into which gas is not laid, and we will trace through each detail he will have to look to in order to get it. First find out the gas company who have mains on the road, to whom write and state the number of burners required. The company will then take the expense and responsibility of bringing in a service from their main into the house. It is necessary for them to communicate with the parish authorities before disturbing the roadway; but the householder has no trouble whatever in the matter. The company will also supply a meter (properly tested and attested by a Govern- ment inspector) at a certain fixed charge, or, if the con- sumer desires it, at a regular yearly rental; or the consumer may supply his own meter if he likes, but in any case the inspector’s seal is necessary before fixing. The service- pipe once inside the house, and the meter brought, the responsibility falls on the householder, whose gas-fitter now takes up the matter. A tap should be fixed on the service-pipe as soon after its entry into the house as pos- sible, as, in case of fire or escape of gas, it should be altogether turned off at the tap. From the tap proceeds a pipe, usually of lead, to the inlet hole of the meter, and from the outlet another pipe of lead communicates with the in-door service of pipes. The reason for these pipes being of lead seems to be for the convenience of bending them into the curves almost always required; but where the substitution of iron pipes is possible, such a course would be desirable. Concerning meters we will say nothing at all now, as we intend to devote a chapter entirely to the subject. The service consists of a series of pipes of various dimensions, and should be contrived after the manner of the arteries and veins in the human body—viz., that each set of pipeS should be diminished in size as successive branches off on either side reduce the work it has to do. In an ordinary-sized house of twenty- five or thirty burners, a one-inch main would be ample, and a twenty-light meter ; but it would only be necessary to continue such a size and bore a small portion of the whole length, the pipe gradually tapering down to the smallest size of composition pipe, which is about one-eighth of an inch internal, and the bore must be in proportion as the successive points of consumption are supplied.