CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. a lunatic, unless in a lucid interval, is absolutely void. As, however, it was found difficult to prove the exact state of the party’s mind at the actual celebration of the nuptials, a statute was passed by which the marriages of all lunatics or persons under frenzies—if found so by a commission appointed for that purpose, or committed to the care of trustees, by an Act of Parliament—were declared void. A fourth incapacity is in respect of proximity of rela- tionship ; that is, the fact of the parties being within the prohibited degress of consanguinity. These degrees, however, are too well known to require more than the mere mention of them. Any two persons, therefore, not labouring under any of these disabilities, may contract themselves in marriage, provided that they do so in con- formity with the law. We will now inquire what the law on this head is. The different modes by which the marriage contract may be entered into, are by banns, by special licence, hy the ordinary s or surrogate’s licence, by the superintendent registrars certificate with licence, or by his cei'tijicate without licence. These we will explain in turn. An Act passed in the reign of George IV.,* prescribes previous to a marriage, the publication of the banns upon three successive Sundays in the church or chapel where the ceremony is to be solemnised, or instead of this, a licence from the ecclesiastical authority to marry without banns— that is,either a “special” licence from the Archbishop of Canterbury, or a “common” licence from the ordinary of the place or his surrogate ; at the same time it ordains that no licence shall be granted to marry in any church or chapel, unless one of the parties has had his or her usual place of abode in the parish to which the church or chapel belongs for fifteen days immediately preceding ; that all ministers are forbidden to solemnise marriages more than three months after the complete publication of the banns, or grant of licence ; that the marriage, whether by banns or licence, shall be in a church or public chapel where banns may be lawfully published, and shall take place between eight and twelve in the forenoon (except in the case of a special licence), and shall be solemnised by a person in holy orders, and before not less than two credible witnesses. Moreover, as it is deemed expedient that no facilities shall be given to persons under the age of twenty-one to intermarry without the consent of parents or guardians, the Act also orders that, in the case of the publication of banns of a pprson under the age of twenty-one not being a widow or widower, if the parent or guardian openly express his dissent at the time they are published, the publication shall be void. It also enacts that no licence to marry without banns shall be granted, unless oath shall be first made by one of the parties, that he or she believes there is no impediment of kindred or alliance, or of any other lawful cause ; and, moreover, that one of the parties to the contract has, for the space of fifteen days immediately preceding, had his or her usual place of abode within the parish in which the marriage is to take place ; and that when one of the parties is under twenty-one, that the consent of the person whose consent is required has been obtained, or that there is no person living who has authority to give such consent. The consent required by the Act must be given by the father, or if he be dead, by the appointed guardian. If there be no guardian, then by the mother if she is un- married, and if there be no mother unmarried, then by any guardian appointed by the Court of Chancery. Although these formalities are prescribed by the law, and in case of their neglect penal consequences may ensue, the marriage is not necessarily void which is not concluded precisely according to the provisions above related. In the following cases, however, the marriage will be void ;—If any person shall intermarry without due * 4 Geo. IV., c. 76. 131 publication of banns in any other place than a church or chapel where banns may be lawfully published, unless by special licence ; or shall intermarry without due publi- cation of banns, or without a licence from a person who has authority to publish or grant such banns or licence; or shall consent or acquiesce m the solemnisation of marriage by any person who is not in holy orders, ine statute, however, applies only to those who commit such errors wilfully, and with full knowledge that what they do is against the law. , j By Special Licence, it must be understood, a marriage may take place at any hour and at any place. We have now to consider how a marriage may be contracted by means of the Superintendent Registrar’s Certificate without Licence. Notice must be given by the person intending to be married by this means to the superintending registrar of the district within which both the persons about to many have dwelt for not less than seven days ; or if they have lived in different districts for that time, then to the super- intendent registrar of each district. This notice will be entered in a book called the “Marriage Notice Book” (which may be seen by any one), particularising the church or other building in which the marriage is to be solem- nised. The person giving the notice must add that he or she believes that there is no lawful impediment; that both parties have lived in the district for seven days pre viously; and that consent to the marriage from the person (if any) required by law has been obtained. This notice is placed in the registrar’s office for twenty-one days after it has been entered in the notice-book, during which time any one who has authority, may forbid the issue of a cer- tificate that the marriage has been duly entered, by writing the word “ forbidden ” opposite the entry in the notice-book. If, however, no such impediment has been made after the expiration of twenty-one days, the registrar may issue his certificate, which expresses that notice of the intending marriage in such a church or building has been duly entered, and that it has not been forbidden by any authorised person ; for which certificate the registrar receives the fee of one shilling. Then the marriage may take place at any time within three months from the entry of the notice, in the church or registered building specified. The parties to the contract may, however, if they choose, be married at the office of the superintendent registrar, when the ceremony must take place in his presence and in that of some registrar of the district, and before two other witnesses, with open doors, and between eight and twelve in the forenoon, in which ceremony no reliffious service may be read. A person desirous of being married by the superinten- dent registrar’s certificate with licence, is to give notice and obtain a certificate as in the former case, with these distinctions:— If both persons do not dwell in the same district, notice need not be given to the superintendent registrar of .each district, but only to the superintendent registrar of the district in which one of them resides. The notice must state that the person making it has lived for fifteen, not seven, days in the district in which the notice is given. The notice is not hung up in the office, and the cer- tificate may be granted at the expiration of one day, instead of twenty-one days, after the entry of the notice. Such are the various methods by which marriage may be contracted. We will now discuss the rights of husband and wife with respect to property. Unless the property which a wife may possess at the time of her marriage be settled on her, the husband becomes the absolute owner of her personal property; i.e., her property other than freehold estates, and this personal property he may dispose of as he wills, and after his death his wife will have no claim to it. The wife may, however, claim as her own, her necessary clothing, and all gifts of