-a5 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. ire;' tke all sed for lof :er, nd lafk odf lie I to I leL ;e d if i t I It may be eaten with cold milk, treacle, or butter, and is an excellent food for breakfast. I Fnimenty or Furmenty.—Boil a quart of wheat until the grains are well swollen. Take two quarts of milk, a quarter of a pound of currants or raisins, picked clean ! and mashed ; stir these together and boil them. Then beat up the yolks of three or four eggs with a little milk, adding suet and nutmeg to flavour them. Add these to the boiled wheat, place the whole upon a moderate fire, stir it well for a few minutes, and then sweeten it with sugar. It may be poured out and eaten hot, though some like it as well cold. Arrowroot with Milk.—Set a pint of milk on the fire, and when it almost boils, pour it upon a dessert-spoonful I of arrowroot which has been well mixed in a little cold water. The milk must be poured in gradually, stirring it all the time, after which it is to be placed upon the fire again, and stirred for a couple of minutes. The arrow- root mixes better if sugar is stirred into it before it is moistened with water. Patent barley and sago may be treated in a similar manner. To Pot Veal.—Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal, or it may be done as follows ; Season a Imge slice of the fillet, before it is dressed, with some mace, peppercorns, and two or three cloves ; lay it close into a potting-pan that will just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake it three hours ; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and salt to taste ; put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon, otherwise, only a little butter just melted ; and, when done, cover it all over with butter. Veal Sausages.—Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar; and when used, roll and fry it, and serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white collops. SEASONABLE FOOD. MAY. Meat.—Beef, mutton, grass-lamb, house-lamb, and veal. Game and Poultry.—Rabbits, pigeons, fowls, pullets, chickens, ducklings. Fish.—Brill, plaice, skate, soles, turbot, cod, mackerel, red and grey mullet, whiting, ling, smelts, sturgeon, dory, herrings, haddocks, crabs, lobsters, cray-fish, prawns, shrimps, carp, chub, eels, perch, pike, tench, trout, dace, salmon, salmon-trout. Vegetables.—Broccoli, cabbages, endive, spinach, let- tuces, sorrel, peas, kidney beans, asparagus, new potatoes, carrots, turnips, chervil, cresses, and all small salads, cucumbers, onions, parsley, thyme, mint, and all garden herbs, artichokes, radishes, rhubarb. Fruits.—Apples, pears, cherries, currants, gooseberries, strawberries, forced apricots. HINTS TO LETTER-WRITERS.—IV. THE TITLE OF ESQUIRE. The title of esquire, though now applied to any person in a respectable sphere of life, is properly a title of courtesy, and denoted originally the attendant upon a knight, his armour-bearer, or shield-bearer. While, therefore, in addressing letters and other documents it is customary to add Esq. to the name of the person to whom they are sent, if he be a person of some consideration, these three letters must be appended to the names of those who claim the title as a reality. Everyone should know, as observed in Debrett, that the title of esquire is of right due to “ all noblemen’s younger sons, and the elder sons of such younger sons ; the eldest sons of knights, and their eldest sons ; the officers of the sovereign’s court and household ; naval and military officers from the rank of captain up- wards; barristers or couiisellors-at-law, royal academicians, medical men holding degrees, justices of the peace, &c. It is contended, however, that justices of the peace are only esquires in reputation; besides, a justice of the peace holds this title no longer than he is in the commission of the peace, in case he be not otherwise qualified to bear it ; but a sheriff of a county, who is a superior officer, retains the title of esquire during his life, in consequence of the trust once reposed in him.” The title of esquire is in like manner accorded to all who claim to be “ gentlemen,” a word which includes all degrees of high rank, but which is supposed not to descend below a certain level as a designation, hence some claim to be “ gentlemen,” as others to be esquires, knights, &c. It is, however, now much less customary to write addresses as to “ Thomas Fisher, gent.,” instead of which we write “ Thomas Fisher, Esq.” In the course of our life we have met with some curious mistakes in connection with Esq. We once saw a letter directed by an eminent foreigner to “ Sir A. B., Esq.,” and several times we have seen letters addressed “Mr. A. B., Esq.” Now, though “Sir” may and should head a letter which has “ A. B., Esq.” for the superscription, the combination of the two, as above, is ludicrous. In like manner, although “ Sir” may and should head the letter which is addressed to “ Mr. A. B.,” or to “ A. B., Esq.,” the combination “ Mr. A. B., Esq.,” on an address is at once ludicrous and vulgar. The rule in writing to any gentleman by courtesy who has no knightly or other dignity, is to address a letter to him thus : “ To Theophilus Brown, Esq.” If Mr. Brown is a man of some distinction, and fills good offices, or is member of certain learned societies, write “ &c. &c.,” between his name and residence. It is not necessary to prefix “ to ” to this or any other address, and it is only in special cases that “ esquire” is written at full length, the abbreviation “ Esq.” being deemed generally sufficient. In addressing such a person, and, indeed, when writing to others who are mem- bers of Parliament, doctors of medicine or of laws, &c., it is proper to append the requisite initials. Thus, if Theo- philus Brown, Esq., is a member of Parliament, it is right to place “ M.P.” after “ Esq.;” if he be a doctor of medicine, “ M.D.” must be added to “ Esq.;” if he is a doctor of laws, “ LL.D.” must follow “ Esq.;” and if he is a fellow of the Royal Society, or some such honourable institution, we must, after “ Esq.,” add “ F.R.S.,” or whatever initials are correct. When a gentleman has an academical degree, it may be indicated, though this is by no means necessary. That of a master of arts is shown by “ M.A.” after “Esq.,” or “ D.D.” for a doctor of divinity even when a layman. But while “ Esq.” may be used in connection with such honours as have been enumerated, it is not placed in the superscription of a letter, &c., with such designations as captain, general, colonel, right 1 oncurable, &c. The heading of a letter to an esquire should, as above hinted, always be “ Sir,” and by that name he must be personally addressed in the body of the document. The concluding form is similar in all cases—“ I have the honour to be, sir, your very obedient, humble servant.” Where less form is required, the conclusion may be modified— “ I am, sir, your obedient, humble servant”—“ I am, sir, your obedient servant”—I am, sir, your very humble servant”—“ I am, sir, your obedient and faithful servant,” &c. With regard to the word “gentleman,” it may be added that although attorneys-at-law, and persons in sundry other positions, are personally entitled to the addendum of “gentleman” to their names, it is an honour which few people would care to exact.