CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 259 overdone, but is to be left in the pot until all the beef-tea from it is finished. Stir with a spoon before serving a por- tion, in order to have the nutritious particles, which may have sunk to the bottom, suspended in the tea. Where there is no cooking-stove, the beef-tea may be slowly cooked by setting the earthen pot containing it in a large iron vessel of boiling water (as “jugged hare” is cooked), or, if the lid is luted down with paste, it may be made in a very slow oven. Va7t Abbot’s Invalid’s Sotip.three quarts of cold water, cut small one pound of gravy beef, one pound of scrag of mutton, and a half or quarter of a calf’s foot (for which two ounces of isinglass may be substituted). Gradually boil, skimming well. Then add three ounces of vermicelli, three tablespoonfuls of mushroom catchup, twenty-four corns of allspice, and a sprig of sage. Simmer four or five hours, till reduced to one quart. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and carefully remove all fat; add salt to taste. This soup may be taken either cold as a jelly, or warm as a soup ; but note the importance of war7n food for all persons of weakly constitution. Meagre Soup {Soupe Maigre). — Before beginning, wash thoroughly all your green vegetables, peel your roots, and throw them into cold water. The proportions of each must depend very much upon what you can get. The soup, when finished, should be of the thickness of ordinary pea-soup. Take five or six handfuls of common sorrel, two large lettuces, from which the withered leaves only have been removed, a small bunch of chervil, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Shred all these very fine. Slice and chop onions, carrots, and leeks, very fine. Throw all these into your soup-kettle of boiling water with some whole potatoes of a mealy sort, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a good lump of butter. Season with pepper and salt. Stir from time to time, to prevent any of the ingredients from sticking to the bottom. When they are all thoroughly cooked, crush as many potatoes as you want to thicken the soup ; the others, if it is a meagre day, may be served up with fish or eggs; if not, with meat. The soup may be also thickened with bread— .. which makes it more nourishing—steeped in a little of I- the liquor, and then broken up and mixed with the soup. Sorrel a7id Potato Soup.-~''i\.t'n a couple of handfuls of }, sorrel in butter, then add enough water to make your ' soup, and mealy potatoes cut in slices. Stir frequently. ; When the potatoes are cooked, crush and mix them with 1 the soup. Season with pepper and salt. Throw in a few ij very thin slices of bread. When they have soaked and 1' boiled up once, serve your soup. Small White Onio7i Soup.—Take a soup-plate full of f small onions such as you v/ould pickle. Peel them, throw i them into boiling water, and let boil a minute. Then fry I them in butter with a dust of sugar sprinkled over j them. Brown a little flour in the butter. Fry also a few i slices of bread, and pour over all a sufficiency of stock broth. I Leek a7id Potato Soup {Meagre).—Cut eight fine leeks I into pieces an inch long. Peel and slice an equal quan- I tity (by measurement, not number) of white, mealy potatoes. Set them on the fire in a saucepan with water, I salt, and pepper. Boil until the leeks are quite tender t and the potatoes can be easily crushed with a spoon. Add a good lump of butter, and stir well together. Put ; a few very thin slices of bread at the bottom of your !j soup-tureen. Pour the soup over them, and serve, i Tur7iip a7id Potato Soup {Meagre).—Put a lump of hutter at the bottom of your stew-pan, and in it brown a I couple of sliced onions. Stir in as much water as you want to have soup. Add an equal quantity of sliced turnips and mealy potatoes and a few slices of bread. When all is thoroughly cooked, pass it through a cullender, 15 season with pepper and salt; give it a boil up, and serve. |t i, —N.B. This soup is not certain to keep good beyond the Carrot Soup.—Made as above, only the carrots take longer to cook. Besides pepper and salt, flavour with a couple of bay leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two or three cloves. O7tio7t Soup.—Cut a dozen middle-sized onions into shreds. Brown them over the fire with a good lump of butter, turning them constantly till they are tender and nicely browned. Add a dessert-spoonful of flour ; let it brown too. Stir in water gradually (or broth, if meagre soup be not preferred). Season with pepper and salt, and let it boil up a little while ; then add a little sliced bread ; let it soak for awhile, and serve. Rice a/id O7iio7i Soup, Brow7i.—Prepare your onions as before ; stir in hot water or broth. Boil till the onions are quite tender ; season, crush all through a cullender. Set it on the fire again, with the addition of rice that has been previously steeped in cold water. When the rice is tender, the soup is cooked. Rice a7id 07iio7i Soup, White.—Take an equal quantity of chopped onions and steeped rice. Boil them till tender in water, or veal or chicken broth. Season with pepper, salt, and a blade of mace. Add new milk to your soup in the proportion of one-third. As soon as it boils up (not over), it is ready. All the above soups require assiduous stirring. Gree7i-Pea Soup {Frc7ich way).—Fry or brown in the saucepan in butter, some sorrel, and chervil—a handful of each. Stir in the required quantity of water. Season with salt, pepper, and a lump of sugar. When it boils, throw in your green peas. Put a few thin slices of bread at the bottom of your tureen, and when the peas are cooked, pour the soup over them. Pu77ipki7i Soup.—Take half or quarter of a pumpkin, according to size. Peel it, and remove the pips. Cut it into pieces the size of a walnut, and set them on the fire with water in a soup-kettle. When the pumpkin is completely reduced to a pulp, add four ounces of butter and a little salt. Stir it while it boils a minute or two longer. Boil a quart of milk with a little sugar and a pinch of salt, and then mix it with your pumpkin purde. Put bread dice (toasted or not) at the bottom of your soup- tureen, and pour over them the mixture of pumpkin and milk. This soup may be further flavoured with a dessert- spoonful of orange-flower water. ' Ca7cliflower Soup is a very striking instance of conti- nental economy in “ boilings.” After boiling cauliflowers, add to the water a pinch of chopped parsley and a lump of fresh butter. Season with pepper and salt, and boil for a few minutes. Put bread at the bottom of your tureen and pour the soup over them. It will be still better if you brown sliced onions and flour and stir in your soup on them as a foundation after proceeding as before. “When the soup is quite done, it is usual to throw in a few sprigs of cauliflower. Prove7iial Soup.—Boil six or eight cloves of garlic in water with a little salt, and a sprig of summer savory {Satureija ho7'tc/isis). Cut thin slices of bread into your soup-tureen, dust them with a pinch of pepper, pour over them olive oil in proportion to their quantity, and pour the broth over them, leaving out the garlic and the savory. A Garbure is another southern dish, which is some- thing between a soup, a stew, and a bake. It is one of those messes into which you may put a7iythingj only there must be meat, there must be vegetables, and there should be brown rye-bread. To make such a dish pro- perly a very large vessel is required. It is seldom made in this country. Garbure a la Bear7taise {after the fashio7i of Bear7i).— Scald the hearts of four cabbages and of a dozen cabbage- lettuces. Take a good bit of bacon, lay it on its back, and slice it down to the rind without cutting through it ; j put it, with the cabbages and lettuces, into a soup-kettle,