251 CASSELL'S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—VI. l7npromptu Romatice,—This is a pastime well suited to “ children of a larger growth,” and a company of intelli- gent young men and women may find it very attractive. 7'he person who commences the game undertakes to relate a story, or rather to begin the narrative, for the story must be taken up and continued by other members of the party. The first narrator assigns to others different cha- racters in the tale, or objects to be incidentally mentioned in it; and whenever one of these characters or objects is named, the person who represents it must immediately take the narrator’s place and proceed with the relation as best he. may, until he can shift the burden in like manner. If his imagination is not very fertile, or he is unpractised at the game, he can relieve himself of the task by men- tioning, as soon as possible, an object which has its repre- sentative before him ; but whenever somebody more ready or more experienced is called upon, he will do well to keep the narrative up for a short time, by some play of his fancy, before passing it on by the introduction of another name. Throughout the game some degree of consistency must be preserved by the various impromptu reciters, so that the so-called story may be connected in its various parts, however ludicrous may be some of the turns in the tale during its passage from mouth to mouth. The rules of the game are, first, that any one who fails to take up the relation immediately the name he has adopted is uttered, incurs a forfeit. Next, that the nar- rator may at any time pause and point to one of the com- pany to supply him with a word, contrary to the sense of what has gone before, which must be immediately done, under penalty of a forfeit; but the word given must at once be introduced into the narration, and this must go on smoothly notwithstanding, or a forfeit is paid by the narrator. To call for a word is therefore an experiment which should not be tried by an unpractised story-teller, but, in the hands of an expert who has sufficient dexterity to turn an awkward word to good use, adds greatly to the general amusement. To make our description more clear by illustration, we will suppose one of a company to commence a romance, which he entitles, “ The Lovely Pettina ; or, the Merchant, the Prince, and the Pirate Chief.” He allots some of the characters, assuming to himself, say, the merchant, while the company suggest others, and also objects to be intro- duced, such z.% sea, ships, bales, black flag, cutlass, dagger, &c., until every one present is provided with a name, to which he must respond. The first narrator then proceeds in something like the following strain :— “ Once upon a time there dwelt, in the city of Nowhere- in-Particular, a, merchant, who traded with Ml parts of the world, and was renowned for his wealth. Besides heaps of money, he had vast stores of Indian shawls, nose-rings, tomahawks, jews’-harps, guano, and anchovies, with dia- monds, rubies, macadamised flints, and other precious stones. But, above all his possessions, he prized his only daughter, Petthia^’— Pettina.—“ The fame of whose beauty had gone where- ever his ships ”— Ships.—“ Had sailed. . She was believed to be the love- liest girl in the world. When she walked in the garden the flowers turned their heads to look at her, and drooped their own afterwards, while the birds admiringly called after her, “ Sweet, sweet, sweet! ” The merchant”— Merchant.—Loved her even more for her amiable quali- ties than for her beauty, and when he looked at her he felt —(here he nods at some one for a word, and receives “disgusted”) disgusted at the thought that she had attained twenty summers without some sovereign having offered to share with her his throne. At length the news came one day across the sea ”— Sea.—■“ That her fame had reached the court of the Emperor of all the Indies and of several other places besides, and that his eldest son was on his way to seek her for his wife. The name of this prince ”— Pritice.—“ Was Ramjamjee Howareyoumabhoy, and when he heard of her charms he had (looks for a word, and gets “ skedaddled ”) skedaddled as quickly as possible into his father’s presence, and, knocking his head twelve times on the floor, according to the custom of the country, humbly asked permission to go and pay court to the beautiful Petti7ia.”— Pettma.—“ The Emperor was in one of his most amiable moods. The 7nercha7it”— Merchaiit.—“ Had just sent him twelve tons of explosive lollipops, of which he was very fond, but they had nar- rowly escaped falling into the hands of Crossbones, the pii'ate chiefs— Pirate Chief.—“ Waving his sceptre three times round his head, the emperor looked at the prince ”— Prhice.—“ And, smiling affectionately, pointed to the ' door with the simple remark, ‘ Hook it! ’ Ramjamjee obeyed, and as he vanished, the emperor, with great dig- nity, took off his slipper, richly adorned with jewels, and threw it after him, for luck. The prudent lad hastily picked it up, and put it in his pocket to help to pay expenses, for it was his intention to take with him several bales ”— Bales.—“ Of Cashmere nightcaps for the giants of Pata- gonia, where he intended to touch on his way. As soon as possible he started, but not without taking with him a wonderful daggerP— Dagger.—“ Which had been given to him by his grand- mother, and which was said to have been fashioned by a great magician. This dagger had the peculiar power of twisting itself up into three knots in the body of a person struck with it, so that it made a very—(looks for a word, and has given him “ beautiful ”) beautiful case for a doctor, and few people who ran against it wished to try it a second time. Very proud of it was the p7-ificep— P7'ince.— “And he had made some verses upon it, which were set to music by a composer, very celebrated in those countries, and known by the name of Oftenbark. He had gone some distance on his journey, and was one evening whistling ‘The Dagger of my Grandmother’ on the quarter-deck of his ship,”— Ship.—“When, low on the horizon, there appeared a (nods for a word, and “ porcupine ” is given him) porcu- pine-like object, which proved to be the vessel, bristling with masts, of th.Q pirate chief.”— Ph'ate Chief.—“ He had heard of the sailing of Ram- jamjee Howareyoumabhoy, and had sharpened his cutlass,”— Cutlass.—“ Making a solemn vow to take his vessel, kill him, and sell all his treasures for the improvement of his own model farm. So now, hoisting the black flag”— Black flag.—“ He made all sail after his prey, and a terrific combat ensued.” Here we may leave the story, as the reader will guess how the prince would probably be made, in the course of the narrative, to vanquish the pirate, and to be successful in his suit for the hand of the fair Pettina. We have given no indication of the incidental forfeits, but the game would scarcely proceed so far as this without giving rise to several. It will be observed, too, that the cha- racter of Pettina, for instance, is supposed to have been assigned to a lady unfamiliar with the game, who is there- fore anxious, as soon as the narration comes to her turn, to pass it on to some one else. Any degree of humour or gravity may be imported into the pastime, according to the disposition of the company, who may, if they please, choose some sentimental, his- torical, or fairy-tale subject, as that of their “ romance.”