268 SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE. Such-a-one,” or as “ The Right Hor Lord Such-a-one, Admiral of the , K.C.B.” &c., according to circum- stances. A captain in the navy is “ Captain Such-a-one, R.N.” A lieutenant is, “ Lieut. , of H.M.S. Fury.” If officers of the navy are knights, baronets, &c., they are addressed as such, according to the rule laid down for military officers. Inferior officers maybe addressed as private individuals, with the addition of the rank they occupy, the regiment they belong to, or the ship to which they are attached. In some cases it is highly desirable to mention details even more minute, in order that a letter may not fail to reach its destination. Thus, it may be well to mention the company, or the battalion, &c., to which the person ad- dressed belongs. In all cases in which soldiers and marines are written to, it is proper to say what rank they occupy, and to state whatever else may assist in their identification or discovery, especially when they are en- gaged on foreign service. An insufficient address often prevents a letter from reaching those for whom it is in- tended, and is the cause of great disappointment, annoy- ance, and distress. SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE.—V. THE PARLOUR-MAID. In most establishments where a parlour-maid is kept, many of the lighter duties of the housemaid and footman fall to her share of work ; to which is not unfrequently added some of the attendance on the mistress of the house, usually performed by the lady’s maid. These combined duties include dusting and polishing furniture, answering bells, cleaning plate, waiting at table, and filling up spare time with needlework. None of the above are, strictly speaking, laborious duties ; but in order to discharge them effectually, me- thodical working is indispensable. Early rising is a cardinal virtue in every branch of domestic work, and is especially desirable where a cleanly personal appearance is a first requisite. Any employment likely to soil the hands and dress of a parlour-maid should be done before breakfast, the attendance of the servant at that meal being generally required. The carpets having been swept and the grates cleaned by the housemaid, the dusting of the furniture and arrang- ing of the rooms should be done by the parlour-maid. A good memory is needful on her part, to remember where every article is kept, and she should be careful to consult her employers’ convenience in regard to the placing of books, writing-materials, needlework, &c. As a general rule, each piece of furniture has its appointed place, but whenever the arrangement is disturbed, it is the parlour- maid’s duty to reinstate order, unless desired not to do so. A vigilant servant will take the opportunity of the family’s absence from an apartment to make up the fire, sweep the hearth, and clear away any litter. All sitting-rooms occupied throughout the day require dusting twice, i.e., before breakfast, and also before the family return to the apartment from the dining-room. If the weather is favourable, opening the windows a few inches from the top and bottom sashes, freshens the room, and proves a grateful change to its occupants. The hour at which a parlour-maid should be what is termed “ dressed for the day,” must depend upon the ever- varying nature of the work required in different families. Perhaps the best way to decide the question is, to be guided by the hour at which visitors are likely to call. In most professional men’s houses for instance, the business of the day begins at ten o’clock, by which time if the parlour-maid answers the door, she should be neatly attired, and ready at a moment’s notice to present herself creditably before strangers. A servant of good address at a professional man’s door, is as much a matter of per- sonal recommendation of the employer as the situation of his residence. Some amount of forethought on the part of the mistress is necessary to ensure cleanly appear- ance in a door-servant; but the attempt is worth making, if only for the sake of favourable first impressions on the part of strangers. The description cf dress already given for housemaid’s wear, applies to the parlour-maid. The following are some of the parlour-maid’s chief duties. Answering- the Door.—When answering a door, the servant should open it wide enough to afford free entrance, herself standing back. Having replied to the question whether the person inquired for is at home or not, the door should be gently closed, and the question, “Your name, if you please.^” or, “What name shall I say?” should be asked. To prevent mistakes, the caller, if a stranger, usually presents his or her card. Upon giving the card, the visitor should be shown into the drawing-room, or some unoccupied apartment. The servant should then place a chair for the visitor, raise the blinds, stir the fire or make any alteration needed to secure the comfort of the caller, in the interval of waiting. All cards and letters should be handed to the person for whom they are intended, on a salver or small tray kept in the hall for the purpose. If the interview is likely to be short, a parlour-maid should be prepared to go to the door to let out the visitor, on the signal of the drawing-room bell ringing. She should stand with her hand upon the lock until the caller comes in sight, when the door should be opened wide, and gently closed when the visitor has left the doorstep. If a carriage is in question, the door should not be closed until the vehicle has driven off. Waiting at Table is a very important branch of domestic knowledge, and although the principles are much the same in all good society, most servants require a little initiation into the particular ways of each family. We subjoin the most general rules. Breakfast.—At the end of the table, where the lady presides, the cups and saucers should be arranged on either side, having her plate in the centre. The tea- pot should stand just behind, and the milk-ewer, slop- basin, and sugar-basin at the back of the teapot. If an urn or bright kettle is used, it should be placed within easy reach of the mistress’s hand. In most families the loaf and butter are placed on the breakfast table, also a rack of toast, a stand of eggs, and some plates of cut bread and butter. Hot meat is likewise set on the table opposite the master of the house, and cold meat on the sideboard. Some people like to have the loaf and buttp also on the sideboard. The parlour-maid generally waits in the breakfast-room until all the family is served with tea, and eatables. Having done so, her attendance is usually dispensed with, the members of the family waiting on themselves during the rest of the repast. At Luncheon, much the same order of things is to be observed, with the exception that both hot and cold meats are then placed on the table, the servant retiring when the family has been served, as at breakfast. This rule is generally observed, as it is customary for the servants to dine whilst the family take lunch. Any unavoidable dis- turbance at that time should be guarded against. It is usual to put a supply of clean plates, glasses, &c., on the sideboard, in order that persons may change their own plates after the servant has left the room. Dirty plates are then carried by the users to the side-board. Dinner.—Some time before dinner, the parlour-maid should get everything in readiness preparatory to laying the cloth. Knives should be dusted and laid in their appointed box, silver and plated articles should be rubbed lightly with the plate-leather, and laid in the plate-basket, and wine-glasses, tumblers, water-bottles, and salt-cellars should be arranged upon a separate tray. The table- napkins and cloth, if untidily put aside, may require