301 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. ! the heart of the full-grown cabbage, as they contain about 2 per cent, of nitrogenous matter, whilst the latter ! afford less than i per cent. Spinach (Spinachta oleraced) may practically be classed with the Brassica. Alliaceous plants are more nourishing than the cab- bage tribe, but are chiefly used in this country for flavouring, except by some of the labouring popula- tion. The Onions {Allium Cepa) imported from Por- tugal and Spain are large and mild, whilst the English are smaller and more pungent. The Leek {Alihan Por- . i rum), Chive {Allium Schoenoprastan), Garlic {Allium , 1 sativum), and Shallot {Allium Ascalonicmn), only require a mere mention. The same also may be said of the r Endive {Chichorium Endivici), which was probably in- I j troduced from China; Celery {Apium graveole?is), which is a native of England ; the Lettuce {Lactuca saliva), which came originally from the Greek Archipelago; and i Asparagus {Asparagus officinalis), which is a native of I i this country. ! Mushrooms can scarcely be considered articles of food, but rather as adjuncts. They contain about 90 per cent, of water, and 10 per cent, of cellulose, salts, and acids, i and, with the exception of the Truffie {Tuber cibarium), r are chiefly used in making sauces. Truffles grow in many |r parts of this country, but the largest quantities used here b are imported from the South of Europe. Starches are important articles of food, especially for i the invalid, although their nutritive value is but small. ^ Those best known are arrowroot, sago, tapioca, and semolina. The true Arrowroots are obtained from rhizomas, or roots, of the palm-tree {Maranta arundi- nacea), which grows in Bermuda, the East and West Indies, and other tropical countries. That brought from Bermuda is the most esteemed, and is often mixed with Brazilian, which is a cheaper kind. The starch procured , from raw potatoes is frequently called English arrowroot, but it is very inferior, often having a sour, unpleasant smell; but that obtained from wheat is somewhat better, j Sago, a product of the Cycas revoluta, and other trees in I India and other Eastern countries, is procured by washing the pith, and drying the sediment. Tapioca is the starch in the roots of numerous plants {Euphorbiaced), mostly of a poisonous kind, which grow in the tropical countries of Africa, America, and Asia. It is obtained by bruising the roots, then washing them, and drying the fecula, or farina, on heated plates of iron. Semolina is far more nourishing than any of the other starchy foods, as it is j derived from the central portion of the finest and hardest i wheat grown in Odessa, Spain, and the South of Italy. ' It makes a good pudding, and should be more used than i it is. I FRUITS. Fruits are to be considered as additions to rather than as articles of food; but as they enter so considerably into the composition of puddings, &c., and are so largely ‘ used in summer, our subject would have been scarcely I complete without them. Although a very large number I are grown in this country, yet most were originally in- habitants of Asia or other warmer climates. Very many, such as oranges, lemons, grapes, raisins, currants, and figs, are imported in large quantities. Thus, in 1875, there were 1,057,704 cwts. of currants, and 548,112 cwts. of raisins imported into the United Kingdom ; the value of the former being 1,424,188, and of the latter, 1,033,399; whilst of oranges and lemons there were as many as 2,869,631 bushels, of the declared value of £1,241,704, so that we paid nearly four millions of sovereigns for these fruits in one year, or about one-fifth less than was paid for all the animals brought to this country. Although fruits do not afford sufficient nourishment to support life, yet they are not to be despised, as ripe grapes contain about 14 per cent, of sugar and i of nitro- genous matter; gooseberries, currants, and mulberries about 7 per cent, of sugar and one-half per cent, of nitro- genous matter ; whilst strawberries and raspberries have less. Apples, pears, and cherries, when ripe, give from 8 to 13 per cent, of sugar, and more nitrogenous com- pounds than the others. Apples and pears were known in this country in Saxon times, when they were much used in making fritters, and were eaten with honey; also in tarts, with spices, figs, and raisins, early in the four- teenth century. Raisins, or dried grapes (Vitis viniferd), are of several kinds : the best. Muscatels, or “ raisins of the sun,” are dried before being cut from the branches, and chiefly come from Spain; whilst ordinary raisins are dried less carefully in the sun, or in ovens, and are brought from Southern Europe, France, and Asia Minor. Sultanas, which are smaller, sweeter, and without stones, come from Turkey ; and dried Currants, which are small seed- less grapes, are imported from the Ionian Islands. The value of raisins imported into this country in 1876 was £ 1,041,217, and of currants, i,539.670- The Date, which is the fruit of a palm {Phoenix dacty- liferd), grows extensively in Asia and Africa, and is more nutritious than other fruits, as it gives about 50 per cent, of sugar and 9 of vegetable nitrogenous compounds. The Fig {Ficus) attains perfection in Central Europe, Asia, and Africa, and contains nearly as much sugar, but is somewhat less nutritious than the date. Oranges. — Sweet Oranges {Citrus aurantiuni) are brought to this country from the warmer parts of Europe, the best coming from St. Michael, in the Azores ; whilst the Bitter Orange {Citrus vulgaris), so much used for making marmalade, is procured from Spain. The Lemon {Citrus Limonum) is hardier than the orange, and will grow in Devonshire; but is largely imported from Portugal, Spain, and the Azores, those brought from Spain and St. Helena being considered the best. There are several kinds of Nuts eaten in this country, the chief of which are the Walnut and the Chestnut, which are sent here in considerable numbers from Italy and France; Cocoa-nuts, the produce of most hot countries ; the Almond, which grows in Southern Europe and Africa; the Brazil-7iut, the seed of Bertholletia excelsaj the Hazel-nut, Filbert, and Cob-nut, are the only nuts we need mention. All these, except chestnuts, contain a considerable quantity of oil, the Brazil-nut giving 67 per cent., almonds 53, cocoa-nuts 36, walnuts 32, and filberts 28 per cent., in addition to which they afford a considerable quantity of albuminous matter, as 12J per cent, is found in walnuts, 8^ in filberts, and 5^ in cocoa- nuts. They constitute a nutritious kind of food, but are difficult of digestion. The walnut is a native of India, Persia, and the Caucasus ; almonds, of Spain, France, and countries bordering the Mediterranean; and the cocoa-nut, of the Tropics. ODDS AND ENDS. Hot Buttered Toast.—The art of making really good toast is little understood, and this is largely the reason why it is so often denounced as unwholesome. A slice of bread burnt on the two outer surfaces, with its interior in a moist, waxy condition, has no right to be called toast, but is rather a compound of charcoal and tough, heavy, sodden dough, in which condition it is certainly and seriously unwholesome. But a slice of bread, not too thick, just browned on the outside, but thoroughly baked through, is wholesome and pleasant food, which may be fearlessly eaten. The way to toast bread thus is to keep it at the right distance from the fire, so that it may be toasted throughout before the outer surface is overdone—