GARDENING. 330 GARDENING.—XV. THE CULTURE OF VEGETABLES {continued from p. 288). The Broad Bean.—The use of this much-esteemed vegetable is well known to every one who has a spot of ground for a garden, and particularly so to cottagers and farmers in most parts of the country, who consider a good dish of beans and bacon a very substantial meal at harvest time. The seeds are the only part used, and very delicious they are when gathered young and from good sorts. There are several varieties of the bean, but the principal now planted in British gardens are the early Mazagan, one of the hardiest and best-flavoured of any of the early kind ; Beck’s new dwarf green gem, early longpod, early hangdown longpod, early green longpod, Marshall’s prolific, broad Spanish, and broad Windsor. This latter variety is greatly esteemed at table, and, as such, no one should fail to put in a row or two of seed. The time of sow- ing or planting will very much depend upon the time at which the produce is required ; for in- stance, the earliest crop, whether early Mazagan or anything else, should be planted from the be- ginning of October to the end of December, provided the weather continues open and mild, on a warm border with a southern exposure. These plant in rows, from two to two and a half feet asunder, making each drill two inches deep, and placing the seed not nearer than three inches to each other in the rows. It is a very good plan to sow a single drill very thickly under a south wall, in order that it may be protected during the winter months, and when spring arrives plant them out in rows. The most successful method is to sow them in a bed of light earth, under a garden frame laid sloping a little to the sun. Plant the beans all over the bed, an inch apart in every direction, and cover them about two inches deep with light earth ; and when the plants are well up, and frost shows signs of approaching, cover the frame down with the lights, giving plenty of fresh air whenever the weather will permit with safety. Transplant them in February or March, provided the weather proves fine and mild ; but not otherwise, as you had far better defer the work than run the risk of losing them. In taking up the beans, ease the earth about the roots, and take them up with as much soil as will adhere to the roots, taking off' the old beans at the bottom, and also the end of the 1 tap root. By this previous protection, the crop will be accelerated about a week or ten days. Although the greatest care may have been taken in the protection, the crop will sometimes be de- stroyed by very severe frosts. This being the case, we recommend our readers to guard against such a calamity by sowing them thickly in a moderate hot-bed in January or February, or in pots, and placing them in a cucumber-frame, and afterwards hardening them off until they are fit to transplant in the open ground. For full and general crops, begin to sow about the latter end of January, provided the weather is open and mild, such vari .‘ties as the longpod and broad Spanish, in some warm quarter of the garden, where the soil is light and mellow, and the exposure open, and continue planting the various sorts until May or even June. The space of time between sowings for succcssional crops should be carefully con- sidered ; that is to say, sow the following or successive crop as soon as the preceding one makes its appearance above ground, but not before. For the main summer crops, the broad Spanish, longpod, and Windsor are con- sidered the most proper. The Windsor is considered the best flavoured, but not so good a bearer as the others. For late crops, to come in about September, the early kinds are most proper, such, for instance, as the early Mazagan, Beck’s new dwarf green gem, early longpod, early hangdown longpod, and early green longpod, as they are constituted to stand late as well as early. For early crops, one pint of seed will be required for every forty feet of row or drill; and for main crops, a quart at least will be needed for every sixty feet; while for late crops, the same quantity as recommended for early ones will be found ample. Plant all the early kinds, both for early and late crops, in rows two feet and a half apart, three or four inches distant from each other in the rows, and two inches deep ; and the larger kinds for main crops, three feet from row to row, five or six inches apart in the row, and not less than four inches deep. Perform the work with a dibble, having a thick blunt end, to make a wide aper- ture for each bean (Fig. 2 shows the dibble), so as to admit each seed down to the bottom, without having any hollow be- low. As soon as one row is thus planted, move the line for the next, and with a rake fill in the holes, leaving the ground smooth and even ; and thus proceed until the whole of the space is completed. Dig the ground, and plant it bit by bit, in order to avoid treading upon it, which should always be avoided as much as possible. Some people make it a practice to tread the seed in (as they call it), in order to secure it in the soil; but this, we are convinced, they would never do were they at all acquainted with the use of atmospheric air in promoting germination and vege- tation. The beans that are sown in the summer months, and when the ground is dry, may with advantage be soaked in soft water for a few hours previously, as it materially assists their germination; or if sown in drills, as they mostly are, the ground should be well watered, and the beans put in directly, drawing the earth over them while the ground is moist. As soon as the beans are up about three, four, or five inches, they should be earthed up on each side of the row, clearing away all weeds at the same time. The hoeing must be repeated as often as necessary, both to keep down the weeds and loosen the soil about their roots to encourage the growth. In performing this operation, great care must be taken not to cover the plants with earth, as such a course would occasion them to rot or fail. If the ground between the rows were stirred with a three-pronged fork, after the hoeing is finished, it would be of considerable advantage to their growth. As soon as the different crops come into full blossom they should be topped, as it is termed; that is to say, the tops of each should be pinched off at the dotted lines (as shown in the cut. Fig. i), in order not only to accelerate their fruiting and encourage the pods to become well filled, but to stop the ravages of the black fly, to which they are very subject. The beans should be gathered when about half their full size, as at that time they are much better flavoured than when they are older and become black-eyed. Beans for seed should be gathered when the pods are beginning to turn black ; the stalks should be pulled up with the beans upon them, and placed in the sun till quite dry, after which the pods should be taken off the stems, and stored in a dry place for use. Some people take the seed from the pods as soon as dry, a practice we do not approve of, well knowing them to keep much better in the pods than when taken! out; the precaution holds good with most other seeds.