CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 93 ! makes the foil fiat and even. Having arranged and I allowed the foil to be firmly fixed, you can proceed with the laying on of the designs, which should be a little I larger than the foiled spaces made ready for their recep- tion, so that the foil may overlap the edges. We cannot I enjoin on the beginner too much neatness and care in this ' operation. In laying on the designs ; the uncoloured part of the paper must be made quite damp with a sponge ; then put i on the glass and the painted surface a thin coating of the i cement. Care must be taken that no air bubbles remain i between the glass and the prints, and the papers must be kept damp while the operation is being carried on, for ! if the cement be allowed to dry, the transparency will be ' destroyed when the clearing liquid is used. It is a good plan to commence rolling in the centre and working out- wards, by which method any superfluity of varnish will ooze out at the edges, and not damage or destroy the surface of the picture. The work having advanced thus far, it should be carefully laid aside for two days at least, or even for three, after which you may begin to remove the paper. The next operation is to remove the paper; this is done by once more wetting it, then rubbing it gently and !; evenly with the hand, a sponge, or piece of cloth, the work being kept damp all the while, and great circumspection ! used, lest by undue pressure any blemish be caused ; this I must be specially guarded against when, the greater part of the paper having been removed, the painted surface I alone is exposed to the hand or cloth, and is liable to scratch or rub off. After the glass has been allowed to j dry thoroughly, a thin coating of the clearing liquid is to I be applied, and when this has become dry and hard, the work should be re-foiled, over the edges of the trans- ferred picture, following the lines of the first foiling, and : proceeding in the manner described before ; after which, I one or two coatings of the washable varnish completes the work, which must dry and harden thoroughly before I it is inserted in the frame-work of the window. I This same art may be applied for the adornment of window blinds, &c., upon muslin or silk. The operation consists in stretching either material tightly on a frame, taking the sheets of design, laying the plain side upwards to receive the diaphanous liquid which is put on with a brush ; when dry, another coating should be given. A coating of cement should nov/ be applied to the coloured side of the paper, taking great care to press it equally with the roller. There is now nothing left to the com- pletion of the transparency but to varnish it. If the picture be misty, the diaphanous, or clearing liquid, should be used again. Ordinary engravings can be printed on glass in the same manner as the painted designs. The engravings which are to be used should contain no size. The plain side of the picture should be damped with a sponge. Apply to the other a coating of washable varnish; then warm the glass, lay on the print, press with the roller, and place it at some distance from the fire to dry. The next process requires great care, or the beauty of the engraving will be injured. Damp the print again with water, and rub off the super- fluous paper after this, and when the miniature has been absorbed, apply the clearing liquid with a camel’s-hair brush; and lastly, when it is thoroughly hardened, the washable varnish can be applied, and the work is then finished. If the learner of the art of diaphanie pays close atten- tion to the exact rules laid down in this article, there will be no difficulty in becoming proficient in this very elegant art, by which every house may be improved in its de- corations. Of the diagrams with which this paper is illustrated, Figs. 2 and 3 are designs suitable for a hall window. Fig. 4 shows two patterns for groundwork or bordering. OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN.—I. ART EMPLOYMENT. We cannot do better than preface our account of the various occupations open to women with the assertion, that it is not the occupations which are wanting, but the right kind of women to fill them ; the lack of really practical education, the ignorance of the simplest money transactions, and the tone of thought, prevailing among the generality of women of the present day, are the great drawbacks. “ Higher Education ” has not made sufficient progress as yet to have leavened the whole mass of English life, although it has done much for the good cause, and has partially opened the eyes of people to the fact that a desul- tory training for girls is of scarcely any value in battling with the world. “ Education,” says a recent high authority on the subject, “ means neither a cramming of facts, nor a smattering of accomplishments, but a preparation for life, and for the demands which life makes upon every woman, married or single.” Therefore, in an article intended to be a practical guide and assis- tance to those needing employment, it is well to go to the root of the matter, and point out the reasons why women fail, and show how in very many cases indeed they may hope to succeed. The secret of success lies, we are absolutely convinced, in thoroughness of education. Everything that a girl learns—housekeeping, music, drawing, sewing, or what- ever it be—let it be so completely mastered that she can, if need be, act as a teacher. Find out if possible her special leaning, and cultivate that. Each woman’s education should be so directed that, in one branch, if driven to it, she could make her living. In treating of art as a means of remunerative employ- ment, we must premise that very little is to be done without a special training ; and although the highest successes must ever be reserved for genius, faithful and profitable art-work may be done by those of very inferior talents, but endowed with “an infinite capacity for taking pains.” There is daily more and more demand for all forms of artistic design in every branch of trade, and the most trivial things at present require an amount of decoration, which proves that designing must be profitable to some- body. A practical artist’s opinion as to the natural faculty of the intending student should be first sought, for it would be indeed a pity altogether to waste the valuable time a course of study would take, lasting perhaps over several years. Patience, industry, enthusiasm, a firm touch, a good and correct eye, are all needful requirements. Of high art but little need be said, as the lower and more industrial forms are the principal sources of many people’s livelihood. But it has been remarked that, once an entrance is effected into the schools of the Royal Academy, a woman is comparatively sure of a good position, and an income ; and the number of female names in the catalogues of the London picture galleries prove this to be true. There are nine schools of art in London alone, out of the one hundred and twenty-three in England. There are also four hundred and sixty art night classes, for instruction in elementary drawing by payment of very small fees. Free Government studentships are given to all the schools ; they are worth about per week. Full instructions may be obtained from the Art Directory, price sixpence, issued by the Government Science and Art Department. After passing through any of these schools a profession, and a profitable one, is opened to a student in a number