CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. The first two years of medical study are devoted, by common consent everywhere, we believe, to the natural sciences, including anatomy and physiology. The student attends lectures on botany, zoology, comparative anatomy, natural philosophy, and chemistry; and is expected to work for some months in a chemical laboratory. The anatomy of the human body is learnt from lectures and books, but chiefly by dissecting. Microscopic anatomy demands great dexterity in handling the microscope, and much fine handiwork which it is not within our province to describe. After the study of the natural sciences, and when the ' student has learnt the structure of the human body (anatomy), as well as the manner in which its functions are performed in health (physiology), she is then fitted to begin the study of pathology, or the science of disease, and therapeutics, or the treatment of disease. General pathology, and special pathology, or diseases of special organs, are treated of in lectures, and illustrated at hospital bed-sides. The various methods of discovering and of determining diseases are to be carefully acquired from oral instruction, and by constant practice. Medicine is divided into two branches—surgery and internal medicine, a division determined by separate modes of treatment. N either branch should be neglected for the other. Diseases of the eye, ear, throat, and skin, have lately developed into separate and large depart- ments, having hospitals in London for each; but the student must not consider her education complete with- out a knowledge of all these various departments of disease. We are informed that it is possible for a student to board, lodge, dress very plainly, pay fees, and all the expenses of education, for about ^loo per annum; for examinations, and expenses in connection with them, about ;^5o extra should be allowed. There is a vast field for the employment of medical women, lying within the British dominions, and com- pletely outside of the work on which men are engaged— we mean in India. There—as has been recently stated on the best authority—women are almost absolutely with- out medical help; and the suffering and death consequent on this state of things it is not easy to overrate. Attention has often been called to this state of things in India, and efforts are being made in Madras, and other Indian cities, to give ladies such medical instruction as will fit them to be the attendants so much required by native women. Englishwomen, with proper medical degrees, would find in India a field for their labours which is, as yet (with the exception of a few American ladies), totally unoccu- pied, and one which would be not only useful, but most lucrative. Success in the study of medicine will depend chiefly on perseverance and strong health ; and the course of study is so long, and so arduous and varied, that any woman not possessing the requisite qualities will turn away long I before she could obtain a degree. I In the branches of ophthalmic and dental surgery we I have but little to say, except that a few women have, at I different times, exercised these professions with profit to I themselves. I In England the qualifications for midwives are less I stringent, and the period of training shorter, than on the I Continent. There can be no question as to the propriety I and fitness of this as an occupation for women ; and it I only requires to be undertaken by an educated class to I be restored to its ancient dignity, when a midwife was, in I virtue of her calling, a gentlewoman. The responsibilities ■- involved are so great, however, that none but thoroughly- H trained and well-educated women should attempt them. ■ Training may be obtained at various institutions, among ■ the best of which are the Rotunda Lying-in Hospital, ■ Dublin. Female pupils are admitted to this hospital for 3SI a period of study of six months, at the end of which time they pass an examination as to their competency before the master and his assistants, and if found qualified, a certificate is given to that effect. The fees are—for an extern pupil, .^lo; for an intern pupil, including board, lodging, practice, and instruction, £io. Application to be made to the master at the hospital. At the Royal Ma- ternity Hospital, Edinburgh, midwife pupils reside in the house for thirteen weeks at los. per week for board. The entrance-fee is los. 6d.; the fees for lectures are from ;^3 5s. to four guineas ; a certificate is granted on leaving. In London there are several hospitals where training can be obtained. At the City of London Lying-in Hospital, in the City Road, residence for two months is required, the fees for everything during that period being sixteen guineas. The practice consists in attending the in-patients only. At the British Lying-in Hospital, Long Acre, the pupils are required to live in the hospital for three months, attend the lectures of the physicians, receive practical instruction, while attending in-patients, from the matron, and attend the out-patients, if they like to do so. The fees are—ten guineas for the three months’ instruction, and 15 s. per week for board and lodging—beer and wash- ing not included. The pupil passes a final examination before the two physicians, and receives a certificate from the hospital, if they be satisfied of her efficiency; after which she may pass the Obstetrical Society’s examination for midwives, if she wish to do so. This hospital is a school for women only, no male students being admitted. The pupils attend out-patients, under the instructions of the matron. The Obstetrical Society of London holds its examina- tions at the Society’s Library, 291, Regent Street, on the second Wednesdays of the months of January, April, and October. The fee for the diploma is one guinea ; unsuc- cessful candidates pay a fee of 5s. All information can be obtained from the secretary at the above address. A course of lectures is also delivered in connection with this society, provided there be two women commencing them at the same time, and that they have had a good preparatory education. The King’s and Queen’s College of Physicians, Ireland, holds an examination of women as midwives in the elements of midwifery, for which a guinea fee is charged. The best education, as well as the most moderate in price for aU it contains, is undoubtedly to be obtained in Paris, where there is a large Ecole d'ac- coucheTnetit at La Maternitd Hospital, in the Boulevard Port Royal, which is intended for the training of ^‘sages- femmes de la prerniere classed’ The teaching comprises the elements of botany, natural history, and pharmacy ; the dressing of wounds, vaccination, the care of children ; as well as the theory and practice of midwifery. The entrance is from the ist to the loth of July'in each year. No pupils are admitted at any other time, and the resi- dence is for one year—i.e., from the ist of July to the 30th of June. The examinations take place at the end of June. During their year of residence the pupils are not allowed to leave the hospital more than six times, and then only in the company of their legal guardians, or persons appointed by them. The fees for board and lodging, washing, instruction, and the needful books and instruments, are only about £2'i> per annum. There is a large and daily increasing field in India, particularly amongst English ladies, for properly-qualified midwives. Miss Carpenter, in a recent paper, read by her before the Society of Arts on her visit to India, states that “there is a great demand for female doctors, more especially for practitioners in midwifery, both among natives and our own countrywomen.” Space, we find, for- bids us to enter on the discussion of another important branch—viz., pharmacy and dispensing, which are now open to women. We shall make these the subject of our next paper.