40 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART. with a towel, and then cut out the proper shapes thus : lay the pattern on the leather, holding it firmly down with the left hand, while with the right draw a line round the Fig. I. pattern with a hard lead pencil; then, with a pair of sharp scissors cut out each leaf or petal thus traced, taking care to have the edges sharp and clear ; proceed thus until a sufficient number of one size are cut out; and con- tinue in the same manner until several sizes have been cut, and the requisite number obtained. Now throw them into a basin of cold water for about five minutes, then take them out and squeeze them gently in a cloth, lay them separately on a board, wipe and smooth them out ; next mark or vein them deeply with the veiner on the smooth side of the leather, pressing heavily where a thick vein is required, and more lightly where only finer ones should be visible ; next mould the leaf with the fingers, laying it upon the palm of the left hand to the form which taste or the model designs for it, endeavouring, as far as possible, to give the required effect at once, as working the leather is apt to injure it : if any of the veins seem pressed out by the moulding, vein them afresh. In veining a better effect is obtained by working the tool from rather than towards the operator. The next process is to twist the stalk between your finger and thumb un- til it acquires a rounded form. A leaf sometimes requires a pinch between the finger and thumb to give it a graceful turn. If the leaves are for a formed design, to be constructed before it is attached to the frame, the appearance of the work may be considerably im- proved by passing a small wire into the leather at the under part in a direction corresponding to the cen- tral vein ; it strengthens and gives firmness of form to it. After moulding, the leaves should be dried as quickly as possible, with- out artificial heat, as fire is apt to shrivel, and make them brittle. When the leaves are dry, brush them all over (particularly the edges) with the pre- pared stiffening, applied with a camel’s hair brush, thinly and evenly. When dry they will be ready for use. The stiffening or size can be procured ready made, but it is pre- ferable to make it, after the following recipe, which is not affected by damp, and dries quickly : mix cold, two ounces of Aus- tralian red gum, six ounces of orange shellac, half-pint of spirits of wine, put into a bottle, and shake up occasionally until the gums are dissolved; strain, and it is fit for use. Stems are made of strips of basil leather, one-third of an inch wide, and as long as the leather will allow ; soak them till soft, wipe them, and then roll them round as tightly as possible (the smooth side outwards) on the table, and dry them ; if required very stiff, add inside a piece of wire. Tendrils are made in a similar manner, using skiver leather, and cutting it into very narrow strips, and winding them, when damp, round a brad-awl or knitting- pin ; dry by the fire, remove from the awl, and a delicate tendril will be the result; cut it to The len^h desired, and apply a coat of stiffening to keep it in shape. Berries are made by smearing with liquid glue a long