34 CHILDREN’S DRESS. and fine needles for babies’ work ; needles Nos. 8 and 9 should be used, and the best cotton, in about three sizes. An emery cushion is also useful. Do not commence work without a good leaden pin-cushion, a yard measure, and plenty of pins. If you employ a machine, the cotton used will be finer than that quoted, which is suitable for hand-work. We are aware that there exists amongst some ladies an unfounded prejudice against the use of the machine for under-clothing, especially for that of babies. But exquisite work can be done with the better class of machines; quite suitable for the work in question, on account of the very fine cotton used in them. We will commence with a list of articles required for the baby’s outfit 6 Night dresses 6 Day ditto 24 Diapers 4 Long flannels 4 Flannel squares (pilches) 2 Common head-flannels I Best ditto 1 Large flannel shawl 3 Robes 2 Macintosh pilches 4 Plain frocks 4 Long petticoats 6 Bibs I Cloak I Hood 1 Coarseflan. nursing apron 6 Soft towels 3 Pairs woollen boots Binders 2 Sponges, large and soft, small I Powder box and puff To Cut and Make a Baby's Chemise.—Half a dozen little chemises are the first requisites for an infant’s toilette, to make which it will be necessary to purchase a yard and three-quarters of lawn at is. 6d. a yard; the lawn should measure twenty-eight inches wide. Cut this up in six lengths of ten inches each. To cut the material accurately, measure ten inches on each side with a yard measure, put a pin at each place, fold the stuff across, and crease it quite flat ; pin it to a leaden pin-cushion. Take one of the ten-inch strips to make the first chemise, and fold it in three—see Fig. i. The folds c C should be cut for the arm-holes, and at A A and B B shorter cuttings should be made for the shoulder-straps. Fig. 2 shows the flaps of the back and front turned down. The corners B and c should be put together—run and felled—prepara- tory to the insertion of the sleeve. Fig. 3 represents merely an oblong strip. When the corner, marked 2, is turned down, and the other end, marked i, is brought round and sewed to it, a gusset is formed. The latter should not be cut out in the piece when making any chemise, as it never wears well; and to make a separate gusset is to lose much time without any advantage. The corners between the sleeves and flaps of the garment should be button-holed. Next turn a very fine hem down for the edge of the sleeves ; afterwards hem the bottom of the little garment rather deeper. The selvage for the sides may be left. The points of the sleeves are armed with straps, and fine linen buttons are placed midway on the shoulders. These are used when the child is older, to button down the flannel straps, and need not be added till required. Those who can afford it use French cambric for babies’ chemises, and should then edge the sleeves with very narrow Valenciennes lace ; while those who use lawn may trim them with Cash’s frilling, which is inexpen- sive. The Nij^ht Flannel.—Next to the chemise a flannel is worn. This should be Saxony, and measure not less than forty or forty-four inches wide. It may be purchased for IS. 6d. a yard, unless a higher-priced one be desired. Two yards must be purchased to make two flannels. Mark the centre of the flannel, and form a box-plait there an inch and a half wide, or two inches in the wider flannel (the forty-four inch). Make two other similar plaits on each side of this—five plaits in all—with fully an inch of space between each, and about four inches over at each end. Tack these plaits down for seven inches to form a body, and let the rest hang free; cut out two half-circlets between the two outer plaits each side, to form the arm- hole, as shown in Fig. 4 at M and M. Run the plaits very neatly down each side, and stitch them across at the ends marked by the letter N. Stitch a washable binding all round the flannel, and add two tapes for shoulder-straps, marked o, and tapes each side at the places marked P, to tie the flannel, which folds across the baby. For a Day Flannel.—Purchase two yards more of better quality flannel, say 2s. 6d. or 3s. per yard. Make as before directed. Some persons give as much as 4s. 6d. or 5s. a yard for perfectly white flannel; bind it with white linen-binding, and tie it down the front with sarcenet bows. The plaits are either quilted across with white or coloured silk, or sewn down with chain-stitch. Fig. 5 represents parts of two folds of a baby’s flannel, the one quilted, the other chain-stitched. Chain-stitches are formed by leaving the loop of the first thread above the work, and entering the needle of the second stitch through it, as shown in Fig. 6. The First Gowns.— These are made half high, and with long sleeves. Buy twelve yards of fine dimity, almost like pique, and make six of them. Cut off two lengths of a yard each, and run and fell them together till they look like a sack with two seams. Fig. 7. Leave these seams open (u u. Fig. 7) for the sleeves to be put in ; slope off pieces at V v, as shown in the illustration,- to form the shoulders, which should measure about two inches long. Run and fell these together. Either merely hem the top and run a string in it, or gather it into a band, which must, however, also have a string in it to draw it close to the baby’s little neck. Gather in the skirt from x to X to form a waist. The piece gathered should be fifteen inches long, and brought into a band one inch deep and five long, as shown in Fig. 8, at Q. One end at each side of this band (r r) ties round the back of the waist, and draws the loose part of the robe close to the baby’s figure. A placket hole is made, five inches long, down the back of the body. The robe is not really open at the back ; it is only drawn like this in the diagram to show the looseness of the back, and how far the waist gathers extend. The seams come at the sides. The sleeve is of the coat shape, cut like Fig. 97 it is run and felled together, the seam being placed down- wards at Y in Fig. 7. The z marked in the diagram of the sleeve. Fig. 9, shows how the top is rounded to sew it into the arm-hole. It is run and felled in, and eased a little at the top ; the arm-hole should not be quite so large as the sleeve. The baby’s sleeve is eight inches long, six across the top before it is joined, and five at the cuff. The measurements are all given allowing for turnings, hems, &c. A pretty First Frock (Fig. 10) is made of fine cambric muslin ; three rows of insertion embroidery, edged each side by narrow pointed work, trim the body. The cuffs and epaulettes are enriched to correspond, and the neck and waistband are also of fancy work. The skirt is em- bellished with a number of narrow tucks, and edged with pointed embroidery. A Handsome Day Flannel.—Fig. ii gives a design for a handsome day flannel. It is made of very fine white Saxony. The body plaits are machine-quilted, with white crochet-silk. The skirt has a deep hem, also quilted. It is bound with broad white ribbon, and tied with large bows. In our next article we propose_giving another pattern for a baby’s flannel, a baby’s house wrapper, a baby’s cloak, cape, and hood, with ample directions for cutting them out and making them up, as in the case of the garments described in the present paper.