CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 129 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—IV. SCREEN-MAKING. Many useful and amusing occupations can be recom- mended for long evenings, and among such occupations we reckon especially those which result in the production of something at once permanent and ornamental. It is our intention to describe several for the benefit of our readers. Preparing scraps with which to cover a screen is an employment that fills up a good deal of spare time, entails no mental exertion, and may be done at small expense, beyond that for the mere frame of the screen, which, with a simple covering of black paper will cost about a pound, and if the scraps are arranged upon it with any amount of taste and judgment, a very attractive addition will have been made to the furniture of the room, and one that at the same time may be found exceedingly use- ful, as a protection against landscapes. All the corners and angles left uncovered by this arrangement, must be filled in with portions of pic- tures, for which purpose torn and damaged ones will come in useful. Another way of covering a screen is by cutting out the outlines of prints and sticking them on. Comic arrangements may be got in this way, as, for in- stance, by putting into a landscape small figures grouped in a valley as a pic-nic party, or climbing a mountain, or walking about the features of other figures much larger. One may cut out an umbrella and place it as if held by a duck, or transfer a pair of spectacles to the countenance of a lion. Of course, these arrangements may be varied infinitely. Perhaps no screen is handsomer than one made of elegant coloured scraps of all shapes, hues, and sizes. For one of these screens, take the pictures from sheets of music, garlands of flowers from Christmas cards, coloured prints, landscapes, figures, heads, flowers—in fact, any- where so much must be left to taste, but the general instructions in this paper will, with ordinary good taste and a little practice, enable the reader to become quite proficient. There are different ways of covering a screen. The first and simplest, as regards preparation, is the sticking on of prints from which the margins have been removed. Pictures for such purposes may be col- lected from various friends and laid on according to taste. .Sometimes all kinds of pictures, of all shapes and sizes, are arranged as it were pell-mell upon a screen, every cranny and nook being filled up. At other times they are arranged in studied confusion, as in Fig. i. This requires materials all of one size, and is most fitted for 9—N.S. will be found desirable not to choose too many pictures representing the same class of subjects ; there should be a judicious assortment of figure subjects, landscapes, animals, fruit, and flowers. Cut these all in outline with a sharp pair of scissors, but avoid touching the finer por- tions at first, such as the features, of the face, or the rigging of a vessel; and only at the last moment cut out the minute details with a penknife. After the last fine cutting is done, you must not handle them more than is absolutely necessary, as they are very liable to tear. First arrange the coloured scraps, according to your taste, on a table, and afterwards gum every one of them slightly by one point, and then hang them temporarily on the screen to see the