176 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC, is a small drop tooth, which takes into the rachet. The lower end of the bana terminates in a projection, H, in which is a small hole. The bracket supporting the other end of the roller (Fig. 64) is quite simple, the catch A falling over the oblique slit by its own weight, thereby preventing the pivot from jumping out of its place. Now suppose we have the blind coiled round the roller, as in the last case, and slipped into its place in the brackets, the band G falls over the rachet, which cannot move be- cause of the tooth in G. Fasten a thin cord to the hole in the side of the drum, and pass it through the eye, H, and let a sufficient length hang down. The stick in the bottom of the blind requires to be heavier than usual, because its weight has to bring the blind down. To let the blind down, take hold of the string, i, and raise it back- ward, as shown in Fig. 63. This will bring up the band G, and with it release the tooth from the ratchet; and the cord, being allowed to slip through the fingers will be coiled on the drum by the descent of the blind. To draw it up it is only necessary to pull the string, I, thereby drawing from the drum the cord coiled on it, the back of the teeth in the ratchet raising up the little catch in G; which falls into its place by its own weight. When all the cord is drawn off the drum, the blind should exactly reach the top, so that the possibility of over-winding the blind is prevented. No tassel is necessary to this arrange- ment. The spring blind consists of a hollow cylinder of metal (tin-plate), in which a spiral spring is coiled. The act of pulling down the blind by the tassel winds up the spring; but a spring lever catch falls into a ratchet at one end, and pre- vents it from flying up again. The lever is pulled up by a string fastened to it, and the blind goes up. It is necessary to steady it up with the tassel, to prevent too sudden jerks. We now come to the most elaborate, though decidedly the most complete of all—the Venetian blind. This consists of a series of thin flat laths, the full length of the width of the window sashes, and about three inches wide, suspended by means of tapes at about two inches apart. The laths are capable of being turned obliquely, either outwards or inwards, or of being alto- gether raised out of the way. The advantage of thus being able to modify the light afforded, while, at the same time, free ventilation between the laths is in no degree im- peded, is such as to need no comment or recommendation. The method by which these varied required adjustments are attained will be seen by reference to Fig. 65, which shows a two-tape light Venetian blind. A series of thin laths are strung by means of tapes, D, at intervals cf about two inches as before stated. The bottom lath, c, being much thicker and stronger than the others, and the top lath, B, the same. The wide tapes run from the the top lath, B, to the bottom, c, on both sides, and hold the thin laths in their places by means of thin tapes sewn to the wide ones alternately on the right and left edges. From one edge of the lath B, on the outside of the tapes D D, are two wide tapes run- ning up to the top board. A, and round two wide pulleys, E E, in it to the other edge, so making a triangular sling, which suspends the top lath from which the whole set hangs. The board A is screwed to the lintel or top of the window- frame. By referring to the end view. Fig. 66, the whole plan by which the laths are turned obliquely to diminish or increase the admission of light, will be evident, by pulling the cord H on either side. So far for the adjustment; now we have to show the drawing up. The limit of length to which theblind descends is, of course, the length of the tapes, D D, but by rais- ing the bottom lath, c, by means of cords passing through holes in each lath, or behind the tapes, D, each successive lath takes up the one above it, until the whole are accumulated in a bundle at the top of the window, all being supported on the thick bottom one, C. The cords which accom- plish this end pass from the board, C, to which they are knotted, up through a hole in each lath to the fixed board. A, over small pulleys, K K, in this board, and thence to each end of this board, and down over a pair of pulleys, L, to the hand at I. The two, or, in other cases, three or more, cords are here knotted together to prevent the laths going up one side at a time, instead of quite horizontally, as they should do. The blind is fast- ened up by winding the cords round two hooks in the win- dow-frame. I Lately iron Venetian blinds have been introduced and pa- tented. One of their merits is stated to be greater lightness, being made of metal not thicket than ordinary note-paper. The laths, too, never break or splinter. Being japanned in place of being painted, they are brighter, more easily cleaned, and the expense of re- painting is avoided. They go into less than half the space when drawn up than wijoden lath blinds, thus allowing more light to penetrate into the room from the top of the window, and do not look as clumsy as the wooden blinds. They will not take fire, and impart a cheerful appearance to the room. I “ g