326 THE HORSE. shoulders where they meet, are not a requisite. They sometimes are caused by the falling away of the muscles —a common fault in old horses : and they are apt to be galled by the saddle. The shoulders must be oblique, running into the back, and should be well clothed with muscle, which will help to carry the saddle well. Without good shoulders no horse can be a really good goer, and they are less able to recover themselves when they make a mistake. It was said formerly that the late Lord Ches- terfield was almost the only infallible judge of good shoul- ders without mounting. Look well to this point ; it is most essential, and requires great practice. When the shoulder is upright instead of oblique, the horse may go high, but he is sure to go short; and he usually puts his foot down on his toe instead of on his heel. The Chest and the parts behind it are also of great importance, for they contain the organs of respiration. It should be round and of fair proportions ; if it is not so the horse is seldom of a very good constitution. A very broad chest is, however, an obstacle to great pace, and not therefore desirable in horses sought for very fast work, as the racer or high-class hunter. We shall notice the modification of these rules elsewhere. For the general form of the horse, the eye of the person who wishes to judge should accustom itself to a fair capacity of chest as conducive to health and endurance. This should be looked for chiefly in depth of girth, so that standing sidewise the legs shall appear to be short, and the body near the ground. The Back should be short; that is to say, there should be room for a good-sized saddle, and not much more, from the withers to within a couple of inches of the hips. The rule which requires shortness above and length below is here again the correct one. It should flow from behind the shoulders with a graceful curve or segment of a circle, and whatever length there may be along the back should be found in the obliquity of the shoulder-blade and the quarters. The shape of the back depends upon the muscles with which it is clothed ; and later we shall endeavour to explain the difference between condition and the want of it, in furnishing the parts of the horse with the roundness the eye so much admires. At present we only desire to give the conformation of a well-shaped horse for general purposes. Although we have given a sketch of the horse having for its basis a perfect square, it will be well to remark that fast horses measure usually a little more in length than they do in height, and that the perfect square is only adapted to the cob-shaped animal. The Hind-quarters to look at, should be round and muscular ; but for work the roundness may be less neces- sary if the muscularity be well developed. Broad, and what are known as ragged, hips denote freedom and strength, especially if there be plenty of length from them to the outside of the upper thighs. The best way to judge of quarters, if they look well generally, is to stand behind the horse, and see that they come close down together some distance below the root of the tail on the inside of the upper thighs. To be slack here, and devoid of substance or muscle, is to be “ split up behind,” a common enough expression in horse-dealing, describing a fault never to be overlooked. Your horse should also look broad from this point of view on the outside ; and the muscles, both of the upper and lower thighs, should stand out like the muscles of a blacksmith’s arm when in motion. The tail should be set on high, and should be carried handsomely, though we shall show by-and-by that a drooping quarter is frequently characteristic of weight- carrying and jumping, the hocks being then usually well under the horse. Fore Legs.—The value must be known to be appre- ciated. Beginning from the chest they should appear to be placed forward enough to give substantial firmness to the body when mounted. If they spring from the back part of the shoulder, the horse is liable to fall. The part of the leg called the “ elbow ” is that which is nearest to the girth ; and if that bone be turned inwards so as to leave little or no room between it and the fore-ribs, it will interfere with the action. This may be discovered at first sight by the toes turning out. The opposite conformation of course turns them in. The fore-arm {i.e., from the elbow to the knee) should be long and muscular; the knee large and flat, but not receding—a form which has received the name of “ calf-kneed,” from its similarity to that of the calf. The bone which descends from the knee to the fetlock, is called the cannon-bone ; it should be flat, free from wounds and lumps, and the sinews, the largest of which is called the “ suspensory ligament,” must be clean and separately sensible to the touch, like strong cat-gut or wire. The fetlock itself should be clean and of moderate size, and the pastern, which extend to the foot, should not be upright, as the action will then want elasticity; whereas, on the other hand, should it be too slanting or oblique, there will be a corresponding liability to weakness. This is rarely the case with half-bred horses. The Foot is of so much importance, that when we come to speak of shoeing we shall have occasion to go further into this than would be consonant with our present cursory view of external form. Almost every writer of note has his views on the subject; and the best authorities are Mr. Mills and Professor Spooner. No amateur can detect disease at sight, unless the case be a very glaring one. When any suspicion exists, we recommend pro- fessional assistance for that member (as well as for the eye); it should stand out from the pastern straight, and both feet should appear to the eye equal; in measurement they should be so; it is said the foot should stand at half a right angle with the base, in this case, the sole. The sole of the foot should be slightly concave. The names of the parts most commonly alluded to are the toes ; the heels ; the quarters, which are the parts between the toe and the heel; the bars, which meet in an angle on the sole, having the heel for their base ; and the frog, a ragged and elastic substance between the heels. These have all their uses, which will be explained at the proper place. At present, sufficient has been said for an unprofes- sional inspection; “ N o foot, no horse,” is the horseman’s proverb. Hind Legs.—What we have to say here is soon said. We have already mentioned the necessity of muscular power in the thighs. They should also have considerable length, which is described in horse-dealer’s language as “ hocks down to the ground.” The hocks themselves are most important, as the propellers of the body. They should be broad to look at sidewise, but narrow and clean to stand behind, like a couple of boards. They are the seat of disease and infirmity which will be explained here- after. The hind cannon-bone is subject to the same remarks as the fore ; and is more frequently passed by with less examination, because it is presumed to be less liable to damage. The belly meets the stifle at the bottom of the back ribs, which should be long, and tolerably close up to the hips and quarters, especially in horses required to carry weight. Height, Colour, and Age.—We are now to give you the average height of the horse, which we may put iovgeneral utility at fifteen hands two inches, equalling sixty-two inches, or five feet two inches. The ordinary height of horses is below this ; but they are called small by the dealers, and would not meet the demand for saddle, har- ness, or hunting, so generally. Most racehorses, as well as hunters, are above it ; carriage-horses much in excess of it; and hacks considerably below it. For comfort in the latter capacity commend us to fourteen hands two inches; while for a hunter in such a county as Northamp- tonshire, where the fences want loolcinc over, we prefer, at