CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 333 size round of the child, just under the arms, taking the size very loosely and easily; allow three or four inches over. Then measure the depth of the body. Always cut your pattern first in paper, and then try it against the child. If you have any old lining, it is a good plan to put the pattern next to the lining, and fit it. The stay body, like all the other articles of a child’s clothing, should be easy. It is wrong ever to girt children in any part of the figure. The stay body should wrap over about four inches, and tie, as shown in Fig. 94, having a good shape cut in jean, and also in linen lining. There are no turnings-in. Tack the jean and lining toge- ther flat, by the edges. Run three piping cords across the centre; leave an inch space, and run three more ; and so on, till all the body is quilted. These cords are inserted the short way, as Fig. 94 shows. A piece of stay binding is wanted, and should be stitched all round. Cut straps for the shoulders, of jean, line them with linen, bind them all round, and sew them to the body at the four a’s in Fig. 94. The strings are sewn in the way illustrated. In cutting the body, there is a slight curve or stomacher in front, and a little sloped out over the hips, which makes the petti- coat sit better than if the body were straight, which gives it a bunchy look about the waist. pleat the skirt before sloping, then pin it to the bodice, and try it on the child. It will immediately be seen how much slope is needed. In another place we shall have a word to say about the washing of children’s flannels, which is very important, and yet very little understood. The White Petticoat is now wanted. Rather stout calico should be used for this. To cut the body, measure the child round easily under the arms, round the waist, and round the shoulders. Write down these measures :—Mark at the top of a square of paper a quarter of the size of the waist, across the paper, like the line A in Fig. 97. Measure the child from under the arm to the waist, and make a dot on the paper at B. Then mark on the paper a quarter of the size round of the child under the arms, which will bring you about to the dot c. You must then draw a line from a to c. Measure loosely round the top of the child’s arm. .Say it is eight inches (it may be more), but take the half of whatever it is, and pin it on a tape - measure. Suppose it is the eight inches, put a pin at four inches in the tape ; lay the tape in a curve like a half circle on your paper, and it will describe the mark from c to D. Take a quarter the measure of the neck, and mark it by a dot Fig, 98. Fig. 99. Fig. lOo* The neck is also hollowed front and back, but most in front. Make the Flannel Petti- coat as before described. Take two widths as long as the child requires, allowing two inches for the hem, and four inches each for two tucks. Herringbone the seams nicely. Make the hem and the tucks an inch apart. Cut a placket hole in the centre of the back breadth, half way down; herringbone a hem each side. Pleat the flannel at the waist; make a box pleat in front. The front of the flannel requires to be sloped as much as the curve of the body. To do this, place anything across the body, from B to C (Fig. 94), that will make a line exactly straight with the hips. Put a pin where it comes, at D, and measure the distance from D to E. at E. Then draw a line from D to E. Make a sloping line from E to F for the neck, and from A to G at the waist. Now cut out the paper; cut a lining from this. First pin the paper on the lining ; stick pins in the lining, all round the edge of the paper. Leave the pins in, and cut the lining two inches wider, each way, at the sides. Then pin it slightly together where the pins are, and try it on. The margin left is to allow for alterations, if the pattern is incorrectly taken. This pattern will serve also for frock bodies. To make a high body, it is only necessary to extend the pattern, by taking the length of the shoulder from D to H, instead of D to E, and measure a quarter of the size of the throat from H to I. This pattern (Fig. 97) must be cut out of double stuff, twofold in the A thin child will bear the flannel sloped equally j material, coming from G to i, as it represents only half a with this measure ; but a stout child has a full stomach, ' front, the waist at the top. For the backs, allow an inch and the slope may be half or three-quarters. It is best to for each, to make a hem from G to i, if the stuff is folded