CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. will be evident to any one who remembers how frequently unforeseen circumstances render the most prudent calcu- lations worthless. This part of the subject will, however,' be treated at greater length further on. The question at present is not how to save and to provide for the future, but how to live within one’s means now. As an assistance in solving the problem, we propose to lay down a few rules for the wise e.xpenditure of the income. They have been found to work well when the different items of cost have been faithfully adhered to in their limitations. Nevertheless, it will be evident that they are- of necessity of a very general character. It is impossible that the same arrangement of detail should apply equally to the case of a household consisting of a man and his wife living in a country place where rent, rates, and food are cheap and clothing dear, and to that of a household consisting of a large family residing in a crowded town. However, details must be modified to suit circumstances. Speaking roughly, we may say that for incomes of from ;^3oo to .2^500 a year, one-half would need to be appro- priated to housekeeping e.xpenses, including coals, gas, servants’ wages, laundry, and provisions ; one-eighth to rent, rates, and taxes; one-eighth to clothing of all descriptions, inclusive of dressmakers’ and milliners’ bills, and needlework; one-eighth to insurance, savings, and doctors’ bills; one-sixteenth to education; and one- sixteenth to incidentals, such as repairs, travelling ex- penses, amusements, pocket-money, &c. Again, many people tbink that one-eighth of the income is too much for rent and taxes. In answer to this we should say that where it is practicable, oae-tenth only should be appropriated to this item. In large towns, however, where rents are higher than in the country, this could not often be done. If it were possible, the balance saved should be devoted to education, which would be the more necessary, as it is generally the case that where rents are low education is expensive, and where rents are high a superior education may be had at a cheap rate. But however high rents may be, the proportion of one- eighth for this item should on no account be exceeded. True it is that the style of a house determines to a great extent the estimate which will be formed of the respectability, class, credit, or means of the occupier, whether he be living within or beyond his means. Still society will be a different thing when each man'will adapt his mode of life to the real condition of his own purse, instead of to his neighbour’s supposed opinion about it. In numberless homes, an honest regular saving might be effected if people would only rid them- selves of the fancied necessity of maintaining false appearances. We may, perhaps, be able to approximate to something like definite information if we take a series of different in- comes and apportion out their expenditure. We will suppose the families to consist of the father, mother, and four children. When there are no children, there will be no necessity that so large a proportion of the income should be devoted to housekeeping, and the consequent surplus can be distributed according to choice. We will commence with an income of a year. This may be divided as follows :— Expenditure for an Income of f ^00 a year. Rent, rates, and taxes Housekeeping Clothing Education ... ... ’ Insurance, medical attendance, and savings ... Incidentals 10 0 250 0 0 62 I-O 0 32 10 0 62 10 0 30 0 0 .4500 0 0 To take these sums in detail:— Rent and Taxes. -Rent and rates vary so much in different localities that a hard and fast line cannot well be given, but we may say that fti los. is the extent which should be devoted to these items in a place where rents and rates are light. Clothing, £62 los.—This Item may be apportioned as follows Master ... hlistress Four children, working one another ■ .■£20 o ... 20 o with ... 22 10 o o o ;^62 10 O Education, ^32 10s.—When the children are young, this sum will be more than need be spent on this item. As they get older, and if they are to be \vell educated, it will not be enough. Therefore the surplus of early days should be saved to provide for the excess of later ones. Well- educated parents may save some of this expense by them- selves undertaking part of the education; but they should do the w'ork regularly and thoroughly. Where the cares of home and family prevent the mother giving a goodly portion of time each day to the children, she should not undertake the duty at all. However different it may have been in former days, at the present time a child must be well educated, or he will have no chance of competing with his fellows. One of the most cruel things a parent can do is to send a child into the world imperfectly educated. It is better to leave him with a good educa- tion and good principles than to bequeath him a fortune, and he w'ill be more likely to bless his parents’ memory for the former gifts than the latter. Insurance, medical attendance, and Savings, £62 los.— Any one enjoying an income of 2^500 a year should assure his life for at least ^1,000, and should effect a fire insurance for ^400, and an accidental insurance for 1,000 in case of death by accident, and £6 per week in case of disable- ment by accident. The cost of these insurances will be— Life assurance (of a tolerably healthy person from 26 to 28 years of age) ^20 to ^25 o o Fire insurance... ...' ... ... 080 Accidental insurance... ... ... 340 £28 12 o The balance of this item should be saved, though the doctor’s bill may -be paid out of it, if there unfortunately is one. Housekeeping.— Under the term housekeeping are in- cluded provisions, coal, gas, servants’ wages, and laundry. That is, that before anything can be taken for provisions, &c., there must be deducfedlbrom the ;^25o— Servants’ w'ages (^i6per annum,or 6s. 8d. per month for a general servant ; £12 per annum, or per month for a nurse — the rule with regard to both servants, “ all found, no allovrances ”) .^28 0 0 Gas Coal—seven tons—a stock to be laid in at 6 0 0 the end of summer, when coal is cheap Laundry, 6s. per week (the remainder to be done at home) 10 0 0 15 12 0 .^59 12 0 This leaves a balance of £\^o 8s, or about £l 13s. a- week, for housekeeping.