334 DOMESTIC MEDICINE. there to cut the backs. Having procured a satisfactory pattern, allow an inch at the sides and shoulders, and half an inch at the neck, waist, and arm-hole, for turnings. Tack the backs and fronts together by the sides and shoulders, an inch in, and slip the bodice on to try it. If too high in the neck, long in the waist, or tight in the arms (making due allowance for turnings-in), slip it with the scissors, as shown by marks in Fig. 95, which repre- sents the three pieces of the bodice before joining. Hem the backs ; stitch the sides and shoulders. Run a piping round the neck and waist, turn down, and hem them on the wrong side. Pipe the arm-holes, and put in the sleeve. The skirt of the white petticoat must be a little longer than the flannel, and should be ornamented with a narrow hem, and a number of narrow tucks all of equal width. For every such, allow double the width. Two breadths of longcloth are wanted. Run and fell these ; make the hem and tucks. Make a placket-hole ; gather the waist, and sew it to the body. Frocks for girls of this age may be made in a variety of ways. Some like merino, pereale, or fancy stuff frocks, according to the season, thick or thin ; simply made like the petticoat—a broad hem and one or two tucks in the skirt, and a low body, trimmed. Robe trimmings, cover- ing body and skirt, are pretty; or the body only may have braces, and a row of trimming be placed straight round the head of each tuck. Many frocks are made without tucks, but they are useful, because children grow so fast. When a dress has been made without tucks, and the child grows out of it, the best method of lengthening the skirt is to mitre, that is, regularly scallop the edge, and bind it with braid. If the frock is coloured, lengthen it with black ; if black, with a colour. Scallop and bind the piece added, and hem it on above the scallops of the frock, on the wrong side, so that the frock and scallops fall over the new piece. The scallops of the one ought to be uniform with the scallops of the other, and not to be arranged alternately. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—X. BILIOUSNESS AND BILIOUS ATTACKS. We will treat first of biliousness. As we have already said, people are very fond of attributing all sorts of symptoms to bile, and are rather pleased than otherwise, when ailing, to be told that their liver is affected. The symptoms generally held to show that people are “ bilious ” are such as the following :—Want of appetite, foul tongue, constipation, sallow or dingy complexion, flatulence, and other symptoms of indigestion. If any pain about the right shoulder or side is added to these symptoms, then they would be held by “ liver ” doctors and their patients to be unmistakably bilious. And so they may be ; only people should know that really very little is known con- cerning the symptoms of too much bile, or too little bile, or bad bile. Cases of jaundice are better understood; but the less obvious affections of the liver are yet very obscure ; and no great harm and very much good would be done if people talked and thought a little less about their livers. It is probable that in many cases in which the above symptoms are present, the stomach and the intes- tines are as much at fault, or more, than the liver. Where the complexion gets dingy, the skin greasy and not clear, the countenance rather bloated, where the bowels are costive, where there is a general sluggishness of body and mind, and where digestion goes on slowly and uncomfort- ably, with much wind; in this case probably the small intes- tines are as much at fault as the liver. But this is the condition called “ biliousness.” The state of the bowels is characteristic ; the motions are hard, dry, and dark, and the urine is frequently thick. Causes.—The causes of this condition are various. It is not uncommon in those who have resided for some time in a climate hotter than their original one. It is I almost natural to some people; and in others it is | largely brought on by inactivity, by too much food and beer or stimulants, and by want of exercise in the ! fresh air. Treatme7tt.—It is in such cases as this that the discipline of a hydropathic establishment, if not its water, does good. But, short of such a costly remedy as this, much may be done by careful diet and simple living to cure this condition of biliousness, which is both depressing and distressing. A mild purgative occasionally in the morning will do good—such as a teaspoonful or two of Epsom salts in cold water, or a tumbler-full of equal parts of ; Frederickshaller and hot water. Light food, such as a | fish dinner occasionally in place of a heavy dinner, and the ; use of water, with a glass or two of cheap French wine, in place of the rich beer and hot spirits which are too largely used in daily life in England. Where the light French wines are not liked, nothing stronger than a little weak sherry and water should be taken. Bilious people should eat brown bread, too, instead of white, and should use water freely for washing all over the body every morning. Bilious Attacks should be distinguished from “bilious- ness.” Biliousness is a slow habit of dull health. Bilious attacks occur at intervals. They are characterised by severe headache, furred tongue, sickness, perhaps vomiting, and occasionally there is diarrhoea, though there may be constipation. The vomited matters at first consist only of food taken, or of the mucus of the stomach ; but if vomiting continues, then the vomit may be yellow or green. Such attacks are accompanied with shiverings and a feeling of illness. They occur frequently in persons subject to them ; sometimes they seem to occur almost at regular intervals. Notwithstanding that such attacks are called bilious attacks, it is probable that the stomach is as much to blame as the liver. The vomiting of bile proves nothing as to “ biliousness,” for if vomiting occurs from any cause and goes on long enough, some bile will find its way into the stomach and be vomited up. Causes.—Such attacks often come on without any very obvious cause. But in other cases it is possible to trace these to one of two causes. A cold east wind, or a long continuance of wet cold weather, especially if it be long continued, will produce such attacks in a large number of people. The complaint is really a sort of “ cold ” in the stomach—what doctors call gastric “ catarrh.” Very often it is preceded and followed by symptoms of a cold. At other times this is the only cold experienced ; and just as other people would get a cough or cold out of exposure to an east wind, persons subject to bilious attacks will get one of these. Another common cause of the attacks we have been describing is an indiscretion in diet—taking something indigestible. Different people will find different things to disagree with them, and it is impossible to lay down a rule of forbidden food that would apply to all cases. But every person may easily find out for himself what does disagree, and abstain from it. Sometimes | such attacks come on not from the bad quality but the bad quantity of food—too much. People indulge in too much food, or too much wine, or spirits or beer. Treatvmit.—When such attacks occur they will often yield^to domestic measures. The principal points are, rest both of the stomach and the system. The patient should | first be quiet; and if very bad, he should lie down, and 1 give his stomach nothing to def for a few hours, moreflian j drinking a little water or a little thin milk-and-water; j thereafter he may take a little barley-water, or mutton j broth, or beef tea, without fat, and wait till some appetite comes upon him before taking stronger food. If he is cold and shivers, hot bottles may be applied to the feet. In addition to these measures, if the sickness is troublesome, a little mustard plaister may be applied over the stomach, and an effervescing draught may be taken every three or