190 GARDENING. the world, so that our present improved breeds are in many instances the result of crossing with foreign varieties. The Turkey {Meleagris Gallopavd) was brought, in the sixteenth century, from Mexico, and is now widely dis- persed over the whole of Europe. Large quantities of young turkeys are imported from France and fattened in Norfolk and other parts of England. The black is considered to be the nearest to the original stock, and furnishes the finest birds. The Guinea-fowl {Meleagris Nujnidia) originally came from the western coast of Africa. Its flesh is not so white as that of the common fowl, but more nearly ap- proaches that of the pheasant in colour and taste. The Goose {Auser domeslicus) is a prolific source of food, very large flocks being kept in the fens. It is a very savoury bird, but unless eaten very young is difficult of digestion. The original of the domestic goose is the wild goose {Anser ferus). The so-called solan goose, which is eaten in the north of Scotland, is a pelican. The Duck {Anas Boschas) is indigenous to this country, large flights of wild ducks being found during winter weather in the fens. Those from Lincolnshire are the best. Domesticated ducks are met with almost every- where, and are comparatively delicate eating if fed upon grain and vegetables. The Widgeon {Mareca Penelope) is a migratory bird of the duck genus, which is in season from October to December. The flesh often has a fishy flavour. Wild and tame Pigeons, the parent stock of which is believed to be the rock-dove {Columba Livia), are very plentiful in this country, and much used for food, but the tame birds which have never flown are the most tender. Larks {Alaudd), although so small, are used as an article of food, and their flavour is very much liked. Plover {Charadrius), a kind of water-fowl, of which there are several varieties—the Wheat-ear {Saxicola cenanthe), which is considered by some as equal to the Ortolan {Emberiza hortulana), the Lapwing {Vanellus cristatus), and very young rooks {Corvus frugilegus), as well as numerous other delicate and mostly small birds, also form part of our food supplies. Game.—The following animals are enumerated as game by the English laws—viz., hares, pheasants, partridges, grouse, bustards, the latter of which have disappeared from this country. The following are also protected— woodcocks, snipe, quails, and landrails. The above- named birds afford a food supply which is much esteemed, the flesh having more flavour than that of most domestic birds, and being more nourishing, although it requires to be kept until decomposition is about to set in or has com- menced, in order to render it tender and easy of digestion. The Pheasant {Phasianus colchicus) is said to have been originally brought from the banks of the Phasis in Asia Minor, and is now common in this and adjoining countries, but cannot be fully domesticated, although it will come to be fed. The Partridge {Perdix cinereus) is met with in large numbers in this country, France, Holland, and Germany. It eats very freely of insects, and is wilder than the pheasant. Its flesh is preferred by many to that of the pheasant, being fuller flavoured and more juicy. Grouse {Tctrao), of which there are several distinct varieties, are of very fine flavour. The Wood Grouse, cock of the wood, or capercailzie {Tetrao urogalliis), a very large bird, often weighing from ten to sixteen pounds, had disappeared from this country, but was some years since re-introduced in the Scottish High- lands. Black Grouse, or black game {Tetrao tetrix), is much smaller than the capercailzie, but is larger than the ordinary Red Grouse {Tetrao or Lagoptis Scoticus), which is that usually sold by our dealers in game. Both of these are found in mountainous districts of this country, and especially in the Highlands of Scotland ; indeed, the latter is believed to be found in Britain only. The other protected birds which are not game are all birds of passage. The Woodcock {Scolopax rusticold) is rather smaller than the partridge, and passes the winter in England. It is a much esteemed food. The Snipe {Scolopax gallinago) frequents marshy places, and occa- sionally breeds in Great Britain. The Quail {Coturnix vulgaris) much resembles a partridge, but is smaller, and comparatively rarely met with in this country. Quails are found in immense numbers about the shores of the Mediterranean, from whence they are occasionally im- ported. The Lajidrail, or Corncrake {Ortygometra crex), like the other migratory birds, inhabits marshy places, and is much sought after for its delicacy of flavour. GARDENING.—IX. ROTATION CKOVPl'HO [continuedfromp. 167). November.—i. The strawberries in this compartment will be greatly improved by having a moderate layer of well-rotted stable dung carefully put down between the rows. The raspberries will likewise be benefited by being treated in a similar manner, and in both cases the manure may be slightly pointed in—that is to say, turned into the soil with a fork. The former will require no further care than the removal of any runners that have hitherto escaped your notice, taking care to avoid cutting away any leaves, while the latter need merely have the old canes removed for the present. 2. This being all under winter crops in a state of progression, it is only necessary to say that where two or more varieties of broccoli are planted, notice should be taken of the periods at which each one comes into use, as a guide for a future season. In the event of very severe weather setting in, it would be advisable to have all the Cape broccoli that are ready for use cut and suspended in a damp cellar or outhouse, as by this means you may keep them for several days, whereas if they were left exposed in the open ground a sharp frost would render thern useless in as many hours. 3. Now is the time to force any sea-kale you may have to spare, but not otherwise, for, remember, the plants or stools you take up for that purpose will be of no further use for out-door purposes. The way to accomplish this, is to take up a few, plant them in deep pots, and remove them to a warm place, where light can be entirely excluded. This can be easily managed by putting an inverted flower-pot over that in which the plants are inserted. This method, of course, will produce a much earlier supply, but we prefer the old mode of covering each plant with an inverted pot, and these receptacles, ground and all, with some kind of fermenting material—sucli, for instance, as a mixture of dung and leaves, or old dung from a half-spent melon or cucumber frame. 4. But very little attention need be paid to celery in this compartment during the present month, with the exception of earthing up the later kinds as they may seem to require it. It will be found a good plan to level down and afterwards fork over the ridges on which the early celery has been grown as soon as it is at liberty, to give frosts an opportunity of pulverising it, and thereby prepare it for a future crop. 5. As the removal of the peas will afford the broccoli planted between them more room to grow, we may naturally expect that they will begin to look considerably better, both as regards uniformity and compactness. The only attention r-equisite just at present, therefore, is to clear the plants of dead and dying leaves, and of vermin where prevalent. 6. As cabbage plants will occupy the greater portion of this plot, the work required will necessarily be chiefly that of searching for and destroying slugs, either by picking them off by hand or dusting the plants with lime, earthing them up from time to time as required, and manuring and digging the remaining portion as soon