20 GARDENING. these, two uprights require to be driven into the wall, one at each end, and not deeper than the largest dish-cover, and upon these a wooden lattice-work is fixed, with also the necessary brass hooks screwed in, for holding the covers. The lattice-work prevents the covers from greas- ing the wall if, as is often the case, a careless servant put them up without wiping. In dark kitchens, or others where the range is set in a dark place, one of the greatest comforts to a cook is to have a gas-light placed, with movable joint, on the left- hand side of the range when facing it, but high up, so that a light may be thrown on the saucepans or frying- pans when needed. In the shelves of the kitchen dresser, and in all shelves of cupboards, there should be a sloping groove in the centre, terminating in a raised rim, other- wise too often on the slamming of a door the crockery will clatter down and be broken. A beading put on is of little use Every mistress, no matter what her income, has ncr own ideas about the kind and quantity of kitchen fur- niture required. A young bride leaves her home, where a sufficient number of servants have been kept for all household work, where the kitchens are bright with tins and coppers, and everything looks as comfortable as labour can make it. Full of the memory of this, she has no idea but that her kitchen must look nearly the same, and therefore provides the usual adornments, though having but one servant, perhaps, to perform all the duties of a regular staff. In a small family with less than two servants, we hold that no more bright articles should be introduced than are needed for daily use, and no more time be expended upon the polishing of them than is absolutely necessary. A general servmnt cannot do more in the kitchen than to keep the dish-covers, kitchen fender and fire-irons, tin funnels, tea and coffee pots bright; but it does not follow that ample requisites in the way of saucepans, strainers, and things of the kind should not be provided. In our Cookery articles our readers will find instructions as to the various culinary utensils which are requisite. We here only suggest the kitchen furniture generally. GARDENING.—I. It is one of the best of the signs of the times that the love of gardening and its practice, in and around our towns, have greatly increased within the last few years. Men of all classes, deeply engaged in business, from the humblest mechanic upwards, show a growing disposition to cultivate what Bacon has termed “ the purest of human pleasures,” and add to their homes that- adornment which may be found in the culture of such a piece of ground as their means will allow them to secure. Much has been written to assist in the gratification of this wholesome taste, but there can be no doubt that people generally have still a great deal to learn as to the principles which should guide them in their gardening amusements, and the direction in which their time and outlay might be ex- pended to the best advantage. In the present paper we shall offer a few hints as to the general principles which should be kept in view in suburban gardening, especially in small plots of ground, leaving gardening upon a larger scale for future consideration ; and we shall follow these hints by details as to the profitable culture of flowers, vegetables, and fruit, by persons whose means and whose opportunity for gardening are alike limited. CONDITIONS OF TOWN GARDENING. It is often supposed that the conditions of soil, at- mosphere, &c., under which gardening is pursued in the vicinity of towns, render it difficult to meet with a similar measure of success to that found in country gardens. If any proof were wanted of the general ignorance which exists on gardening subjects, it would be afforded by the prevalence of this belief. The fact is that, rightly followed, town gardening may be made as successful and as pro- fitable as gardening' in the country ; and the reason why the one so often presents an unfavourable contrast to the other is chiefly that suitable subjects are not employed, or, if used, are not tended with proportionate care. What will grow well in the country will often not thrive well in a town, and the attempt to rear the same plants and the same varieties under the two widely different conditions, frequently results in conspicuous failure. But, on the other hand, town growth is peculiarly suited to some classes of plants, which positively flourish better in the more heavily-charged air. The greater quantity of ammonia in a town atmosphere, which is constantly being brought down in large quantities by the rains and absorbed into the ground, is precisely what many vegetables and plants require for their full development; and the town gardener has therefore in this case a constant and natural supply of that which the country farmer is at considerable expense to procure by artificial means. Again, the greater warmth which is found in towns as compared with the open country in winter, is eminently favourable to many of the forms of vegetable life. The superior growth and condition often observed in many of our best evergreens in town as compared with the same objects in the country, is an instance of the peculiar suitability of the neighbourhood of town to a certain class of plants ; and in other classes it is equally favourable to some varieties, although it may be injurious to others. What these varieties are we shall have occasion to point out under their several headings, when we come to touch upon the different kinds of plants cultivated in our gardens. But, while the gardener in town or suburb should bear these facts in mind for his encouragement, he must also remember not only that it is necessary to choose suitable plants for his garden, but to counteract the impurity of a town atmosphere by greater attention to the cleanliness of his plants. The leaves of a plant are its air-vessels, through which impurity will be conveyed to its system if it exists in the surrounding air. A good supply of water in dry and dusty weather is therefore doubly necessary to plants grown in town ; but the water should be applied, not to the roots only, as is the general practice, but by gentle sprinkling or washing as in a rainfall, over the entire surface of the plant. At frequent intervals the soot and dust which are sure to settle more or less on the leaves should be entirely washed away, and the plants, if healthy, will immediately repay the attention by their fresh appearance and vigorous growth. These two principles of suitable selection of plants and constant attention to cleanliness, are the chief points necessary to be observed to enable the town and suburban gardener to compete successfully with the resident in the country. But now as to other matters which demand his consideration. THE SOIL, AND HOW TO IMPROVE IT. The first is, to study at the outset the character of the soil with which he has to deal. This must be his guide as to the class of plants that he should attempt to grow. Some flourish in ligl^t while others thrive in heavy soils, and his choice must be made accordingly; but it is always possible in a small garden, by a little judicious outlay, to do much to alleviate the general character of the soil, whether of the one kind or the other. Stiff clayey soil, for instance, may be lightened by the addition of sand, road- scrapings, and vegetable manure; while too light a soil re- quires the addition of clay or marl and rich vegetable earth. Many suburban gardens, attached to newly-built houses, are formed of meadow land recently broken up ; and the soil in these is generally sufficiently rich and fertile to form a basis for operations without much trouble in preparation. But in others the ground which the ga>-dener has to cultivate >