CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 6r flat and high, and deeply sunk between the eyes, and the muzzle turning upwards, yet broad and deep, so as to cover the teeth. The chest is deep and full, and forelegs powerful, this part of the dog showing the mastiff character; but the loins are often weak, the dog’s strength being chiefly in the neck, fore-legs, and jaws. The colour varies greatly, white being most fashion- able, and so does the weight, which maybe anything from fourteen to sixty pounds. The character of the bull- dog is uncertain ; some arc very intelligent and peace- able, others are uniformly surly. Many are apt to be friendly with all unless something sudden occurs, when they will attack with- out the slightest warning. Hence, although they are generally inoffensive, unless the temper be known as trustworthy, they are dan- gerous dogs. But whatever the disposition be, the pure- bred bull-dog always shows the following characters: he always flies straight at the head of man or beast, and at no other part; he attacks without a sound or warning, and will remain mute if beaten to death; and he never lets go till killed or made insensible. It is singular that the slightest cross of alien blood makes the point of attack uncertain. Though the bull-terrier, for instance, may be of equal courage, he will fly at the THE ENGLISH IIASTIFF, The head of the St. Bernard is not unlike in expression to the Newfoundland, but there is rather a deep furrow between the eyes. The limbs are of immense size, and the whole animal colossal in his proportions, being especially powerful about the loins. This gives to the breed what is, perhaps, its strongest characteristic—a slinging gait, or walk, like that of the lion. Indeed, this peculiarity, combined with the size and colour, make the resemblance be- tween a liones-s and this dog very strong. Some uncertainty exists amongst naturalists as to the ideal type of this particular species. The original St. Bernard breed is stated to have died out some forty years ago. That which we have described is the kind now kept by the monks of St. Bernard. The Newfoiindland is, perhaps, the most popular breed of any. He is simply unequalled in the water, and has been picked up in the middle of the Bay of Biscay, out of sight of land, or of any other ship from which he had probably jumped overboard. His character, as a rule, is of the noblest kind ; generous, brave, gentle, and of great intelligence, he becomes almost part of the family to whom he belongs. Equally good-natured with the mastiff, he is far less dignified, and enters into all their legs as well as the head the true bull-dog never. The Bloodhound is now somewhat rare. A good dog stands about twenty-eight inches at the‘shoulder, and is a muscular animal, but not nearly so massive as the mastiff. The ears are large and pendulous. It is un- necessary to remark on the exquisite power of scent pos- sessed by this breed. The aspect of the animal is generally quiet and very sagacious, and the disposi- tion gentle if not roused. The St. Bernard dog is apparently derived^from the bloodhound. The breed has several times been on the point of extinction, being kept up in very few hands, and it is much to be re- gretted it is not more exten- sively propagated. The St. Bernard is a really magnifi- cent animal. The colour is newfoundi.and generally orange or tawny, getting lighter or even white on the belly, and what are con- sidered by the monks the best specimens have a white col- lar round the neck, and a white streak down the poll; but many of the finest dogs have little or no white about them. pastimes with a zest of which the larger breeds elsewhere mentioned would be ashamed; he is, in short, not only a good, but eminently a compa- nionable dog. The large breed has been known to reach thirty-four inches at the shoulder, and though rather smaller now than formerly, thirty inches is often met with. The head is splendid, with an expression at once intel- lectual and benevolent; but the eyes are to our fancy rather too small in propor- tion. The chest is well developed, and all the fore part of the body muscular and powerful; but there is generally a weakness about the loins which gives rather a slovenly gait to the ani- mal compared with other large breeds. Wo are con- vinced that this defect could be bred out with a little care. The feet arc large, and flatter than usual, which greatly aids the animal in sv/imming, an exercise it is really fond of. The best colour is pure black; next to this, we prefer a dun colour inclining to red ;