271 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. Throughout the period of early infancy, the best time for giving food is before sleep ; indeed, the act of taking food induces slumber. Its importance being pre-eminent, it is better to waste the remnant of a meal than to keep a sleepy child awake to eat. The utmost cleanliness should be observed in every detail connected with the keeping of all utensils for nur- sery use. When removed from the bottle, the india-rubber top should be immediately placed in a glass of clean water, and the bottle cleansed from every trace of food, and twice a day rinsed out with tea-leaves and water. When not in use, the bottle should be hidden from the infant’s sight. Not more food than is likely to be consumed at a meal should be prepared at a time, owing to the tendency of milk and farinaceous articles to turn rapidly sour, and become altogether unfit for infants’ food. Farinaceous articles for night-feeding should not be kept over a lamp ; diluting such articles with boiling water is a safer plan. Water is easily kept at boiling heat in an ordinary Etna. The nurse should avoid the unpleasant habit of testing the temperature of the infant’s food by putting it to her own mouth. A little sugar sprinkled over the top of a feeding-bottle will often induce an infant to take the artificial food. Diet for more advanced childhood will receive attention in a subsequent number. SEASONABLE FOOD. JUNE. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, lamb, buck-venison. Poultry, Game, &r=c.—Fowls, chickens, pullets, duck- lings, green geese, turkey-poults, pigeons, leverets, rabbits, plovers. Fish.—Salmon, turbot, soles, mackerel, smelts, trout, pike, carp, eels, tench, lobsters, prawns, shrimps, mullet, haddocks, skate, sturgeon. Vegetables.—Cauliflowers, spinach, potatoes, beans, peas, artichokes, asparagus, carrots, parsnips, turnips, lettuces, cucumbers, onions, radishes, cresses, and all kinds of salads and garden herbs, sorrel, white beet, horse-radish, rhubarb. Fruit.—Gooseberries, currants, cherries, strawberries, apricots, peaches, and various kinds of apples, pears, and nectarines, grapes, pine-apples, melons. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—VII. CHICKEN-POX. Besides the eruptive fevers, already noticed, we must treat of chicken-pox, one of the most frequent of the diseases of children. It is familiar to mothers and nurses, and consists in the appearance of little spots, round, not depressed in the centre like those of small-pox—-very much the same kind of appearance as we might conceive to be produced by dipping a brush into boiling water and sprinkling it over the body. This eruption is preceded by slight indications—generally very slight—of indisposition, such as chilliness, headache, weariness, and sometimes aching in the back and limbs. Often nothing particular is noticed in the child till the eruption appears as little spots, first over the trunk, and then over the face and limbs. They soon fill with clear, or very slightly turbid fluid. They do not extend deeply into the skin, and they do not destroy its substance as the spots of small-pox do. On the third day of the disease the spots begin to dry up. On the fourth day this drying progresses rapidly, and soon after leaves a scab, which in a few days falls off and little trace of the spots is left but slight redness. Chicken-pox has been thought by some to be a modifi- cation of small-pox. But it is not so. It is quite a distinct disease. Neither vaccination nor small-po.x protects from chicken-pox. Chicken-pox occurs almost exclusively in childhood. The spots ai'e of a different shape, not being depressed in the centre, and containing only one compartment, not many. The disease cannot be given by inoculation, as can small-pox, and it is alto- gether slighter than small-pox. It is of little importance itself, excepting that it is very infectious, and pretty sure to affect children exposed to it. Occasionally, like any other eruptive fever, it leaves in some children a tendency to other eruptions for a time. It occurs for the most part in very young children. Treat7nent.—But little else than domestic treatment is required, though, if there is any undue degree of feverish- ness or indisposition, it will be well to consult a doctor. A very light diet of milk, and general quietness, are all that are necessary. A little cooling medicine, however, does good, such as the following for a child a vear old :— Citrate of potash 18 grains. Simple syrup ... ... ... i drachm. Water ... ... ... ... ounces. Mix. A teaspoonful three or four times a day. For older children a mixture in twice the quantity might be made up, and a proportionate dose given. GARDENING.—XIII. ROTATION CROPPING [co7itinued from j>. Deceynber.—i. As raspberries and strawberries ai'e the chief occupants of this quarter, there will be little to do, with the exception of removing weeds and such rubbish as will accumulate from time to time amongst them. The gooseberry and currant bushes surrounding this or any other departm.ent, should be pruned at once, and the cut- tings removed directly afterwards, so as to keep up a neat and orderly appearance. 2. Examine the broccoli here repeatedly, for the purpose of having such as are fit for use cut and stored away in a cool place where it will keep good for many days. Should this situation be a very cold one, we should advise you by all means to have a portion of the winter variety laid down on their sides, in the following manner;—Commence at the west side of the plot, taking a spit or spadeful of soil from that side of the plant, bend the same down in that direction, then take a spit of earth from the next plant and lay it, as it were, on the back of the first to keep it down, and continue to do the same until the entire piece is completed. The reason for treating them in this manner is, because it enables them to endure a much harder frost with greater ease, and at the same time does not cause the heads to de- teriorate in the least, so far as shape and flavour is concerned. 3. Previous to very severe weather setting in, it will be advisable to cover up the Globe artichokes so as to keep them from all possibility of danger. The forcing of seakale is the most important operation just now in this department, and there is no better way of accom- plishing the work than covering the plants with inverted flower-pots or proper pans, having first scraped away a little of the soil from the collar of each plant and filled the vacancy thus made with coal-ashes which will keep away slugs and other vermin. As a fermenting material tree leaves will be found a.s serviceable is anything, the heat being so gentle and yet so regular, tli sea-kale seems to thrive with it better than anything e'.^e we know of, Rhubarb may be forced in the same manner, but it takes a much longer time to start, although when it has once made a move it continues to grow with great rapidity.