CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 331 Rtmtter Beans.—plant has a twining stem, and would rise or grow to twelve, fourteen, and even twenty feet high, provided it had sufficient support. This useful vege- ! table is trained in various ways ; for instance, the general method of training resorted to by cottagers is strings ; I another, and in our opinion a better method, is to have upright supports, one foot apart, with a cross-rail fixed c at the top \ and the third, which is the easiest plan of i any, is to get some tall brushwood and fix it in the S' ground in the same manner as you would stick peas, and it will in time cover them, and look exceedingly picturesque. ■ Another very excellent method is that of employing small poles about six or seven feet long (like hop-poles I on a small scale), which are stuck into the ground on either side of the row of beans, so as to cross each other I' diagonally. The pods are oblong, seeds kidney-shaped, smooth and shining, and when ripe varying in colour according to the sort—that is to say, either white, black, or mottled. The fruit may be had in the open ground from June till ■ destroyed by frost in the autumn. The unripe pods are the parts in request, and when boiled are very delicious. There are several varieties, as the scarlet runner, the most • beautiful and lasting bearer, and consequently the best * for a main crop ; the white runner, a variety of the |! scarlet, the seed and blossom white, but the pods very < similar to the scarlet kind ; and the painted lady, the blossom of which is red and white. Although there are many sub-varieties, these are the only three worth growing. J The scarlet runners, like the white and variegated, are tender in their nature, unable to bear the air of our climate t before the latter end of April or beginning of May, the seed being liable to rot in the ground if planted sooner, ^1 even in a dry soil. It must be known that sharp cold checks the plants, d so that they make but little progress before the weather is i! settled and warm. The scarlet runner is most esteemed, I on account of its greater prolificacy and longer con- itinuance in fruit; the pods are thick and fleshy, and if gathered while young are very good. The white runner is ^ also good for a principal crop. The painted lady is more I of an ornament, but the pods are very good eating never- theless. The whole family of beans flourishes in a light and very rich soil, and if the land is a little moist, so much the better. Do not, as a rule, commence planting the beans till the beginning of May, and then only a moderate crop, deferring the principal crop till the first week in June. The scarlet runner is the best for principal crops. Sow in rows about five feet apart, and in drills not more than two inches deep, placing the beans about five inches j asunder in the rows ; after which cover them up evenly, I making the ground quite level. ' COURT MANUAL.—IV. LESSER TITLES OF HONOUR. I Having enumerated those dignities the holders of which i properly constitute the peerage, we proceed to mention i such other honourable titles as are prevalent among us, j the first being that of baronet, which many regard as one « of true nobility. I Baro7iet.—This is the lowest degree of hereditary honour ; in this country, and does not confer a right to a seat in Ij the House of Lords. The title was introduced by James I. I, Baronets and their eldest sons when of age have the r privilege of being knighted by the sovereign if they desire .) it. Formerly, so many availed themselves of this privi- >j lege that baronets were often styled knight and baronet i' whether they had really been knighted or not, but this was of course a mistake where knighthood had not been conferred. A baronet has neither special robes nor coro- net. His wife, sometimes called a baronetess, claims the title of lady, and has precedence of all knights. Knight Banneret.—This is a title of honour which has been occasionally conferred by the sovereign as a reward for naval or military service. Knight Bachelor.—This is the proper designation of those who are commonly called knights—as Sir A. B., Knight. The party to be created knight kneels before the sovereign, who, laying a sword upon his shoulder, bids him rise, calling him by his Christian name. The dignity is personal and not hereditary. The wife of a knight is by courtesy styled lady. Esquire.—This term, although in practice of very ex- tensive application, really indicates a degree in the social scale next to that of knight. At one time it was a title which could be granted by the sovereign, and even now, in spite of modern custom, it appears that only certain persons are actual esquires. In the form of squire the term still retains a trace of its ancient distinctiveness. The following are said to be truly called esquires :•—the eldest sons of knights,and their eldest sons in succession; eldest sons of younger sons of peers, and their eldest sons in succession; esquires by creation, and their eldest sons; justices of the peace, while they remain in commission ; sheriffs of counties, for life; officers of the royal household, while in office ; mayors of towns ; members of Parliament; counsellors-at-law ; bachelors of divinity, law, or physic ; esquires by office, as esquires of Knights of the Bath, &c. In law, foreign and Irish peers, and eldest sons of British peers, are only esquires. Gentletnen.—This word actually denotes the lowest order of the minor aristocracy, but, like esquire, its true use has been almost lost sight of. Our forefathers, when social status was more clearly defined than now, as readily distinguished between a gentleman and a yeoman, as we do between a landed proprietor and his tenantry. At present the question is rather curious than important. ORDERS OF KNIGHTHOOD. Of these we have but few, and our rules are so strict that no British subject can rightly accept foreign orders without special permission from the Crown. In this country the sovereign admits to one of the national orders such persons as theii constitution allows, in testi- mony of royal regard. The Most Noble Order of the Garter.—The institution of this is referred to the reign of Edward III. and the year 1349, and the order itself is considered the highest in the world. The sovereign is its head, and its numbers are limited, but always include several foreign potentates and princes. The habits and ensigns of the order consist of garter,mantle, surcoat, hood, collar, and George. The garter is worn below the left knee, and is of dark blue velvet edged with gold. It bears a motto in gold letters, Hofii soit q2ii maly fense, and has a gold buckle and pendant. The mantle is of garter-blue velvet, lined with taffeta ; the sur- coat is of crimson velvet lined with white taffeta, and, like the mantle, bears on the left side an eight-pointed star em- broidered in silver. In the centre of the star is the red cross of St. George, the patron of the order, the whole being surrounded with a small garter in blue velvet, and bearing the motto of the order embroidered in gold. The hood is of crimson velvet lined with taffeta. The hat is of black velvet with a plume of white ostrich feathers, and a tuft of black heron feathers fastened to the hat by a band of diamonds. The collar is of gold, and weighs thirty-two ounces. It is formed of twenty-six garters with roses in each, alternately white and red. The George is a figure of St. George on horseback, and is attached to the collar ; the lesser George is hung to a broad blue ribbon worn over the left shoulder. The i