313 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. to the ground seed. The best ground mustard contains but little of the white, whilst the inferior is either a mixture of flour, mustard, turmeric, and cayenne, or is chiefly composed of the flour of white mustard, which does not contain any pungent oil, and is much cheaper than the black. Pepper is the fruit of the Piper nigritm, which is grown in the West Indies, Malabar, Travancore, Sumatra, Java, &c. White Pepper is less pungent than the black, owing to the removal of the black skin, or pericarp. Long Pepper is the fruit of the P. longnm and P. officbiarum^ natives of Malabar and the Indian Archipelago. Pepper owes its acrimony to a peculiar essential oil. The weight of pepper imported in 1875 was 29,399,020 lbs., and its value, .^670,175. Cayenne consists of the ground pods of some kind of capsicum, the smallest of which are known as chillies {Capsicum fastigiatum), and the Bird Pepper {C. baccattai'i) being the most acrid. The large variety is the C. amiuum. The fruits of several other plants are used as condi- ments : Cumin {Cu- niimmi Cy7ninuni), Fenugreek {Fcsnum GrcBciari), Turmeric {Cu7xui7ia lo7tga), which, with cayenne and other condi- ments and spices, are chiefly used in mak- ing curry-powder. Spices. ■— The chief of these are Ginger — the underground stem, or rhizoma, of the Zmgiber offichiale— which chiefly comes from the East and West Indies, and from Sierra Leone, on the west coast of Africa; Ci7i7iai7io7i, which is the true bark of the Ci7mamo77mm zeylanicum, a native of Ceylon; and an inferior kind of cinnamon, called Cassia, which is the bark of the Latirus Cassia. The Nut7neg is the seed of an evergreen tree {Myristica fragra7is) that grows in New Guinea and other places, and affords Mace, which partially covers it; both con- tain an essential oil, on which their flavour depends. Cloves are chiefly brought from Zanzibar and the West Indies, and are the dried flower-buds of an evergreen tree {Euge7iia caryophyllatd)-, diud Allspice is the fruit of Pi77ienta officmalis. Both cloves and allspice owe their flavour to an aromatic essential (volatile) oil. Ca7‘away {Caru7n carui) is grown in England, but chiefly comes from Holland; and Pepper77tmt {Me7itha Piperita) is grow'n largely in Surrey and other parts of England, as well as in some foreign countries. It is but little used as food. The quantity of cinnamon imported in 1875 was 1)234,567 lbs., and of all other spices, 15,657,282 lbs.; the value of the cinnamon being ^133,567, and of all other spices, ^478,692. Fig- 3- Fig. 7. Fig. 6. Fig. 2. PRETTY AND CHEAP TABLE AND OTHER ORNAMENTS. Whilst writing our recent articles on paper flower-making it struck us that the alabaster vases and other ornaments generally purchased to show such bouquets were very costly, and beyond the reach of many of our readers. Not long ago we saw a beautiful and choice group of wax flowers, mounted under a glass shade, in a vase apparently of white coral, which had been made for a very trifling sum and without much trouble, as follows ;—Take a long-necked wine-bottle, with a rounded bowl, and with a coil of flexible white cap-wire twine it all over to resemble coral, like Fig. 2, interlacing it in every way. The spikes on the coral are merely loops twisted toge- ther. Fig. 3 shows the effect round the bottle. It must not be joined below the line indicated by A and B, but the coral work continued, only not fastened on one side, so that the bottle can be slipped out. After- wards link this part together. Cover it all over closely with white Berlin wool, twisted round and round. Melt enough white virgin wax in a pipkin to dip the vase in, holding it by a wool thread; or pour the wax over and over it, melting it afresh as it con- geals, till you have a good imitation _ of branch coral. When quite hard. All the inside en- tirely with dried moss. The flowers are placed in the usual way in it. A basket constructed on the same principle is also very pretty. Baskets are now generally adopted for flowers without handles ; but, if the coral is skilfully made, the handle will prove a charming addition. The work may be varied by covering the wire with scarlet Berlin wool instead of white, and mixing some powdered vermilion with the wax, stirring it up just before pouring on the basket. An ornament for the dinner-table is not difficult to contrive in the same way. Make three plates of different sizes in the coral; half a garden stick is to be used for the stem, coated with wax. Get a round of wood, half an inch thick, an inch wider than the coral stand at the base ; cover it with crimson velvet, and put a wreath of ivy-leaves round it; arrange a wreath round the stem. Put a little dried moss very lightly in each coral-plate at the centre, leaving the edges free, and arrange flowers on them. The coral cup at the top can be made separate from the stand, and added last. Fill these well with moss and flowers. Fig. 5 shows the stand ; Fig. 6 one of the plates. The cup at the top can be made over a jelly- glass. Fig. 7 shows the stand dressed. White coral is the best for this purpose. Fig. 5-