323 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. nearly the same effect as if the fish were boiled in slices or moderate-sized pieces, which is often done now that “large joints” are out of fashion, and carving at a side table is in. The difficulties of cooking a very large fish entire well {l.e., retaining all its proper qualities) are so great that a little display may be wisely sacrificed to securing a satisfactory amount of finnness and flavour. Flat fish, as turbot and brill, are rarely so thick that they may not be put into boiling water at once. Halibut, if only on account of its size, is mostly cooked in slices. John Dory, which is not a flat fish, although it is flat, may be set on in cold water, whatever its size, as it takes a great deal of boiling, and is none the worse for being robbed of a little of its strong and peculiar flavour. All fish, while boiling, should be skimmed as carefully as meat. Take it out of the water when it is done enough, and keep it hot, if it has to wait, by leaving it on the fish-bottom, set diagonally across the fish-kettle, so as to receive its steam, and covered with a napkin dipped in the hot boilings. For boiling carp, pike, tench, and several other river fish (especially those intended to be served whole cold), as well as lobsters, crayfish, shrimps, prawns, and other crustaceans, French cooks often used a made-up liquor, which they call court-bouillon. We ourselves do not like and therefore do not recommend it. Certainly it covers any muddy flavour by overpowering all natural flavour, but it utterly spoils sweet and delicate fish, and, in our opinion, is ruin for lobsters and shrimps. IMeverthe- less, if the cook is requested to use it, she may thus make her Court-bouillon.—The quantity—which must be enough to cover the fish well—will consequently depend upon its size. Take equal parts of vinegar, red wine, and water; add cloves, peppercorns, bay-leaves, thyme, parsley, marjoram, shalots, sliced carrots and onions, and salt. You may also add lemon-juice, and almost any aromatic that suits your fancy. Let these simmer and stew for an hour. The first time of using a court-bouillon there is no need to take out the flavouring ingredients ; put the fish to them as they are. If it is to be eaten cold, take the kettle off the fire before it is quite done, and let the fish cool in the court-bouillon. When you take the fish out strain the liquor. It will serve several times, only it must be diluted with water every time of using, otherwise it would become too strong and concentrated. Oil and vinegar is the only sauce that is customarily eaten with fish boiled in court-bouillon and served cold. The Salmon.—We call the salmon a river fish because it is in rivers that it is most generally caught. The river also is its place of birth. But the sea is its home and its pasture-ground, to which it must return to renew the strength exhausted in its fresh-water revels, or die. In fact, it inhabits fresh and salt waters alternately. It spends its summer inland and its winter in the sea. Moreover, as the swallow returns to the roof or shed that gave it shelter, so does the salmon to the gravelly river’s bed where it first saw the light. This instinct involves important consequences. If all the salmon ascending a river are taken, that river will be henceforth salmonless. No stranger salmon, cruising along the coast, will mis- take that river’s mouth for its own river’s mouth. To re- stock the river young salmon must be reared in it, thence to find their way to the sea at the proper age, in the certainty of their coming, like bad shillings, back again. This fact has already been taken advantage of with promise of good success. There were no salmon in the Mediterranean ; consequently none could ascend the Rhone and other rivers that run into it. But salmon fry, bred at the French piscicultural establishment at Huningue (close to the Swiss frontier, in the neighbour- hood of Bale) have been turned out into the Rhone, and there is reason to hope that, after their descent to the sea, they have thriven so well on the shoals of sardines as to found a colony of Mediterranean salmon. They may find, however, a formidable opponent in the powerful and gigantic tunny. A still more difficult task appears to have been accomplished, namely, the naturalisation of this noble fish in several Australian rivers. Salmon is abundant, and, moreover, cheap, in Norway and some parts of North America. Here the price is kept up, and made pretty equal all over the country, by the successive discoveries, first of packing it in ice, and secondly of railways. The penny-a-pound times, and the refusals of proud-stomached apprentices and servants to eat salmon more than three times a week, are gone for ever. In salmon you eat concentrated fish, which, indeed, is true of all fish that are exclusively piscivorous. We do not think the pike can in this respect be for one moment compared with the salmon. But in all questions of this kind tastes vary so widely and so frequently, that it is almost dangerous to express an opinion positively. Salmon is in season from the beginning of February to the end of August; cheapest in July and August. The fresher from the sea the better it is. A healthy fish has bright silvery scales, small head, plenty of fat at the belly part, and flesh of the pleasing hue emphatically called “ salmon colour.” On page 324 we give an engraving of the fish in good condition for the table. A shotten fish, that has remained too long in fresh water (sometimes called a “ black fish,” on account of its dull dark leaden tint) is lank and gaunt, with a large lantern-jawed head, the gills infested with small white worms, the flesh flabby, pale, and unwholesome. The whole aspect of the fish is re- pulsive, and anything but tempting to eat. We have never seen such exposed for sale (illegal) in England; but on the borders of salmon rivers they are largely poached, and consumed by the poachers, during the close season. Boiled Salmon is sometimes sent to table with the scales left on it, for show, and to make the fish, or the piece served, look bigger; but we do not recommend the custom, which, in our eyes, has an uncleanly appearance. Moreover, when properly scaled the skin is not only eat- able but nutritious. If the fish has roe it may be either served with it, or—which is the more artistic practice- mixed with lobster or anchovy sauce. If a middle-sized fish, or good part of a large one (seven or eight pounds), is to be served entire, the precautions above indicated must be observed. From thirty to forty minutes will not be too long to let it remain in the water after boiling. If its appearing on the table whole is not a condition that is insisted on, it will be better cooked by being cut across into handsome pieces of from two to three pounds each, and so plunged into boiling water, and boiled from twenty to thirty minutes. They can then be served side by side in their natural order and position in the fish. With a garnishing of fresh fennel or parsley they will make quite as presentable a dish as one large piece, and will be much more equally and palatably done. In fact there is con- siderable economy in avoiding the dilemma of either over- doing the thin parts or underdoing the thick in a large fish served entire. Cooks are mostly caught on the first horn of the dilemma, which causes both waste and dis- figurement. Any of the slices not used, removed from table whole, should be laid at once, and while still warm, in a dish with a cover (as a vegetable or a pat^ dish), and covered with a mixture of half vinegar, if strong, more if weak, and half the boilings of the salmon skimmed. Add a few peppercorns, put on the lid, let it stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours, and you have capital pickled salmon. Boiled salmon is so excellent, and its natural flavour requires so little foreign aid, that it is quite able to hold its