319 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. common now-a-days is too little. Exercise in the open air, and healthy, well-ventilated rooms, especially sleep- ing-rooms, is also important. Care and worry—things very difficult to avoid in this world—should be avoided as much as possible. Attention to these points will greatly tend to preserve the healthy condition of the blood-vessels and other parts of the body, on the in- tegrity of which safety from apoplexy depends. We need not add that nothing tight about the neck should be worn. If what we have said be true, we need iiot say that much drinking, much eating, indolence, and in- activity, horror of the fresh air, and love of close, warm rooms, are the ways by which apoplexy is to be produced. Treatment.—This, of course, is a matter for a medical man. But supposing a person to be attacked with apoplexy, , his head and shoulders should be raised, his necktie, and any other tight garment, should be unloosed. And nothing more should be done till a doctor arrives. Prospects of the Recovery may be quick from this condition, or it may be gradual, or death may result in a few minutes, or hours, or days. Let the nature of the disease be considered, and all this variety of result will be understood. The disease consists in the breaking of a blood-vessel, and the escape from it of blood. If the blood is in great quantity, and in the central parts of the ' brain, death will probably result; if it is in small quantity, and the escape of more is prevented by quietness, this blood will be absorbed and consciousness will return, and any want of power in the side will gradually be supplied. It will easily be understood that when blood escapes into the brain it tears it up. If there is much of this, even if the blood itself be absorbed, some paralysis is likely to remain. Of course, when an attack I has once happened it is not less apt to happen again. In order to prevent this, the same precautions should be taken as we have described for preventing a first attack. ASTHMA. Asthma is a disease in which bad breathing comes on in somewhat severe sudden attacks, characterised by a loud wheezing noise. It is a spasmodic disease, that is to say, the muscular fibres surrounding the small bronchial tubes, through which the air passes to the lungs, contract, and so diminish the calibre of the bronchial tubes, often to an excessive fineness, which makes breathing pain- ful, difficult, and very noisy. These attacks of spasmodic breathing are sometimes occasioned by something in the air that irritates the passages. Some substances in the air will excite a fit of asthma in some people—such as ' ipecacuanha. The writer knows a patient in whom the odour of a linseed poultice often excites asthma. It is not always the clearest air that suits the patient best, for people I troubled with asthma have been known to breathe better ] in the atmosphere of St. Giles’s than at Hampstead. On the j other hand, people that have scarcely been able to breathe j in the more crowded parts of London have got well on ! Hampstead Heath. Sometimes asthma is brought on by excitement, or emotion of any kind, as fear, love, &c. fi Sometimes it is brought on by heavy suppers, by indigestible f or irritating food. The writer knows a medical man who has I cured himself of a liability to asthma in the night by either I not taking any supper, or only a very light one. The disease i is more common in men than women; it is often hereditary. ' j Symptoms.—The sight of a person with asthma is very I characteristic. There is quite a gasping for breath, the r, eyes staring, the breathing accompanied by a loud or a fine |.j wheezing noise, and the patient assuming a peculiar posi- i tion—if standing, probably having his hands resting on the * I back of a chair; if sitting, leaning slightly forward, with the II hands on the knees, the mouth open and greedy of air. 11 The lips will become livid or blue if the breathing is not I'jl soon relieved. Attacks often come on in the night. j Treatment.—A medical man should be sent for, but l| before he arrives a few things may be done calculated to relieve the patient. Plenty of air should be admitted to the room. If indigestible food has been taken, a stimulat- ing emetic may be given, as half an ounce of mustard in hot water. After the operation of this, or at once, if an emetic is not judged necessary, a cup of strong coffee may be administered. A strong mustard plaster may be applied to the chest. Various substances, smoked or inhaled, have the power frequently of relieving the fit of asthma. Among the most homely of these is the smoke of burnt nitre paper, that is of brown paper dipped in a strong solution of salt- petre (nitrate of potash) and dried. The smoke of this burnt paper often relieves the asthmatic attack. So does a pipe of tobacco, especially in those not accustomed to take it. Medicated cigars, too, are prepared for these attacks, especially cigars of Stramonium and of Datura Tatula. These should only be taken under medical advice, but they are often singularly useful. All these failing, the asthmatic patient should try change of air. Nobody can tell him what air will suit him best, for the disease is so capricious, that sometimes it is benefited by an air that one would expect to be injurious. But the effect of change of air is often magical, and this remedy often succeeds when all others fail. As a general rule the patient in taking a change of air should go to an atmosphere entirely different from that in which he is living. Anything wrong in the general health should be put right. The asthmatic should live regularly and simply, and, as far as possible, he should live in the atmosphere that suits him the best. {See Bronchitis.) HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—IX. THE GAME OF WHIST {continuedfrom p. 279)- Playing out of Tiirtt.—If the third player play before the second, the fourth is entitled also to play before his partner. If the fourth play before the second, the latter may be called on by his adversaries either to win or to lose the trick, as they may deem advisable. Revokitig.—A revoke is committed whenever a player does not follow a suit, although he holds a card of it in his hand. The penalty for every revoke is the loss of three tricks, which the opponents may take either—i, by adding three to their own score; 2, by deducting three from the score of the revoking side ; or 3, by taking three tricks from the revoking player and adding them to their own. In the latter case, the penalty may sometimes amount to even more than the loss of three. For instance, if the revoking party have made the odd trick, their opponents, by taking three tricks and adding them to their own six, count three themselves towards game, andmake the others lose one, thus making a difference to the score of four in all. This is a point on which misunderstanding pre- vails, even among practised players ; but the law is as we havehere stated it. Thepenalty forarevokeis counted before either tricks or honours. A revoke may be recalled before the revoking player has played to the following trick, but not after ; and a player is allowed to ask his partner if he is sure he has not a card of that suit. The tricks played during a hand may be searched, on its completion, to establish evidence of the revoke ; but the penalty cannot be claimed after the cards are cut for the next deal. Here we must end our abstract of the laws, which we believe will be found sufficient for the family circle; but persons requiring further information as to nice points which occasionally arise, and the code by which they are to be met, will find it in the authorities before alluded to. SINGLE AND DOUBLE DUMMY. The game of “dummy ” is an invention for the benefit of persons who desire to play whist, but cannot make up the requisite party of four persons. Single dummy is played by three, and double dummy by two. The cards in each case are dealt out as in the regular game, and the same