294 HOW TO MAKE TEA AND COFFEE. Crimson, bright blue, and violet cashmere pelisses are pretty for children, trimmed with one straight deep row of velvet ribbon, or one deep and one narrow above the hem of the skirt, round the cape, collar, and cuffs. An edging of piece velvet round the cape and collar makes a handsome trimming to a cashmere pelisse, but is more difficult to put on. It is cut on the cross, shaped to the slope of the cape, and joined in breadths, and run on the wrong side and turned over on the cape, and tacked down before the lining is added. There is then no trimming on the skirt, which may have a tuck if plain. Sable, chin- chilla, or quilted silk make pretty edges for capes for children in winter. For a costly toilette, a silk velvet pelisse is handsome, either black, dark blue, or dark green. In winter, a narrow tip edge of sable, chinchilla, or a band of ermine or minever, is appropriate. For any time of year, nothing can be handsomer than a rich wide lace on the cape and collar, and robing the sides or round the hem of the skirt. Brown holland pelisses look well with capes edged by embroidery. Plain linen pelisses can be merely trimmed with embroidery, or embroidered in crewels. White piques are now braided in elaborate patterns, and trimmed with embroidered edges. A neat and pretty and easy way is to place a narrow ornamental braid on a cape like herring-bone, wide enough apart to admit a ribbon an inch wide through it, which can be removed to be washed (see Fig. 82). Checked thick muslins and sprigged Swiss muslins are pretty for summer. The checked may merely be trimmed on the cape with an embroidered edge, or have an insertion let in, run with coloured ribbon, and be worn with a sash, the hat or bonnet corresponding in colour. Little children of two years old wear velvet hats bordered with fur—a plain buckram shape of the turban or “ pork pie ” make, covered with a piece of velvet hemmed to the crown, the edges turned down in reversed pleats round the brim and inside. Tack it down with small stitches that are not seen on the right side, and long ones inside. Line it with silk, run on the wrong side over the tacking stitches, and then turned over and into the crown. Little girls wear bonnets like hoods. The Marie Antoinette shape is pretty, made in quilted white or coloured silk or satin, edged with a narrow scanty ruche of ribbon, and a ribbon bow or rosette on one side. In summer, straw hats may be used for boys, with a band of blue ribbon. There are many mothers who prefer jackets to pelisses. Fig. 91 is a jacket of white piqud or brown holland, suit- able for a child from two to three years old. Phiafores are made various ways. A piece of diaper may be folded in half, lengthwise, and then in half again lengthwise, taking from the second folds a slope off the top at A (Fig. 81) for the shoulders to be run and felled together, and a circular slope at B to form an arm-hole and epaulette with the narrowest hem possible, the epaulette edged with muslin work ; at the top a wide hem and a string to draw, a hem at the sides and bottom, and a second pair of strings at c, complete it. Fig. 79 shows another way of cutting a pinafore. The slope on the shoulders can be made, but the pinafore looks quite as well without it. The arm-hole is cut and hemmed round ; the front is gathered on to a band at D, shown better in Fig. 85, with ends to tie behind. Brown holland braided is pretty. Many children wear pinafores which are really little frocks ; for girls a skirt and body, for boys a plain piece of holland wide enough to go round them over their clothing, is sloped over the shoulders like A in Fig. 81, and then the whole of the front set in three box pleats, and the whole of the back in three box pleats at the top, sloped a little for the neck, and set in a narrow band. Arm-holes are cut, and the rest left loose. Epaulettes are set in the top halves of the arm-holes, and the rest hemmed narrow. The opening of the pina- fore is behind, between the second and third pleat. The skirt has a deep hem. A two-inch broad belt, with a button behind, is put on over the pinafore, but separate. For a girl of three, a book-muslin pinafore, trimmed with Valenciennes lace and embroidery, with a tucked skirt and bib-shaped top, is very pretty for evening dress (see Fig. 88). A low frock, for a child of two, may be seen in Fig. 90. Fig. 92 shows an out-of-door jacket for a boy of three years old. Fig. 89 is a pinafore for a child of three years old and upwards. Fig. 80 is a knitted jacket, like- wise for a child of the age just named. For this jacket the materials required are;—2J oz. of white single Berlin wool, or 3-thread fleecy, ^oz. black single Berlin, and the same quantity of dead gold, blue, ponceau, or any colour preferred for the border, a skein of white filoselle, and five needles, No. 12. This jacket is knitted in white wool, and trimmed with the other colours. It is worked the long way (not across) entirely in plain knitting, and as the rows go backwards and forwards, they look alternately plain and purl, and give a ribbed appearance to the work. It is commenced at the straight edge of the front by casting on seventy-two stitches, and the first fifty rows are knitted plain, always taking off the first stitch, which will give twenty-five ribbed or purl rows on each side of the work. In the following nine ribs (a rib includes two rows), viz., in the 51st, 53rd, 55th, 57th, 59th, 61 st, 63rd, 65th, and 67th rows, an increase must be made in the last stitch but one, by knitting it twice, first from the front as usual, and then from the back before taking it off the needle ; this increase is for the rise from the neck to the shoulder. In the 68th row there should be eighty-one stitches. HOW TO MAKE TEA AND COFFEE. The Scotch do not say “to make tea,” but “to infuse the tea,” which is more correct in every respect. Good tea is an infusion, not a decoction. By boiling the tea-leaves, you get from them a bitter principle, and you drive off the delicate perfume of the tea. For this reason, the teapot should never be kept hot by letting it stand on the top of a cooking-stove, over a lamp, or where it is likely to be made to boil. Excessively bad tea is made in some parts of the Continent by people who do not know better, by putting a small pinch of tea into a large kettle of water, and letting it boil till they have extracted all its colouring matter, in which they think the goodness of tea consists. A metal teapot is better than an earthen one, and the brighter it is kept the better is the tea. Rinse the teapot with boiling water. Put in a bumping spoonful of tea for each person, and one for the pot. Pour over it just enough boiling water to soak the tea. Let it stand a few minutes, and then fill up the pot with boiling water. Do not put in carbonate of soda to soften the water and make the tea draw better—i.e., to make a wretched saving of tea, un- less you are in absolute poverty. The water, in fact, is softened by boiling, which causes it to deposit some of the matters it held in solution; witness the “fur” in long- used tea-kettles, and the lime which settles at the bottom of many waters after boiling. A cup of tea is an excellent thii^ after any fatigue. Its refreshing effects may then be followed up by more sub- stantial nutriment. A proof amongst others (such as steam, railways, electric telegraphs, &c.) that the world is still in its infancy, is that it is scarcely two hundred years since tea came into general use. Pepys mentions having tasted tea for the first time in September, 1660 ;— “ Tea—a Chinese drink, of which I never drank before.” Sir Kenelm Digby records, as important, the Jesuits’ mode of preparing tea :—“ Tlie priest that came from China