COOKERY. 322 feathers, and therefore to be most fit for the purpose we have in view ; but, of course, breeders do not like supply- ing you at this season, even if you were hard-hearted enough to kill a pigeon during his honeymoon, or when he had become the head of a young family. Many birds, however, of two years old (and they should not be less) will be found in good feather till August or September, when family considerations will not interfere with your choice. Wild birds are usually in their best plumage late in the shooting season, but as the amateur need not have any voice in the time or manner of their death, I shall say nothing further on this subject. Of other British birds suitable for screens, there are probably numbers that we do not know, and many others that we might mention, notably, black game, woodcock, curlew, gulls, and sea-birds of numerous sorts. Of wild pigeons, the prettiest screen we have made was from a stock dove {Columba the metallic colouring on the feathers of the neck being particularly effective, and the wings beau- tifully shaded. A teal in perfect plumage. Fig. 3, is (as pro- bably our readers well know) a most beautiful little bird, and in making a screen of one, we recommend the following variation from the plan of operations already given, when dealing with a pigeon. In skinning the neck it will be found impossible to stretch it sufficiently to let the head come through, and it must therefore be slit or cut through- out its entire length. This cut is most conveniently made in the course of skinning, and should commence from the centre of the back and run up the back of the neck and head sufficiently far to let the head come through without difficulty. I prefer the back of the neck for this cut, because the feathers naturally meet and form a ridge there, which hides the subsequent stitches, but, of course, the intended posture of the bird may render it more desirable to make the cut up one side or in front. When the skull has been prepared, and the feathers redrawn over it, the wire to support the neck should be sharpened, then wrapped round, to within about two inches of its point, with wool, to a size similar to the naked neck of the bird, and then be inserted through the skull, leaving the end projecting, as a handle to assist in bringing the bird to its proper posture when placed on the board. The skin of the neck should be veiy slightly anointed with the arsenical soap, as it is almost impossible to prevent some of the feathers from getting soiled in some degree, and the cut must then be sewn up. This requires a good deal of patience, as the feathers are constantly getting caught by the thread, and seem to be possessed by a persistent idea that they are wanted to add to the stuffing in the neck. The best stitch for this kind of work is found to be that well known to schoolboys who have covered tennis-balls, and which is sometimes adopted in lacing up walking-boots; i.e., passing in the needle always from the under side of each edge alternately of the parts to be brought together ; by this means the skin is not so likely to tear, and the feathers more easily coaxed into their proper places as you proceed. So much for the head, which in other respects, with the wings, is treated in the same way as before mentioned in the case of a pigeon. But when the screen has to be made up, it will probably be found that, owing to the narrow expanse of the wings, they would appear to be too small for the head, or, at any rate, that much of their beauty would be hidden under the breast-feathers and their effect lost Instead, therefore, of gluing them close up to the stick, as in the case of the pigeon, it will be found de- sirable to fix them some distance apart at the base, dis- pensing, perhaps, altogether with the tie A, mentioned in a former article (see Fig. 4, page 289), and instead of the appearance there presented when one wing is affixed, it will be as in Fig. i, page 321. It will be seen that to effect this, the millboard must be made proportionately larger, and so long as it is covered by the breast-feathers, the wider it always is the better. It should also be somewhat stouter than in the case of a bird whose wings are brought close up to the stick, or what is perhaps better, the addi- tion of a piece of millboard, to be glued and tied to the inside of the wings after they are fixed, to correspond with the piece attached to the stick. This arrangement will leave a larger space to cover in the inside of the wings, and for this purpose both the tail and the wing coverts may be brought into use. The under side of the tail of this bird especially should be made use of, as it is very pretty. Should any light-coloured feathers of a bird become soiled with blood, either from the effects of being shot, or unskil- ful management in skinning, or be stained with dirt, they may be cleaned in the following manner:—Paint the parts affected with a soft brush and warm water, till they are soaked through, without, however, ruffling the feathers, and then sprinkle them thickly over with dry whitening (such as is used for cleaning plate), but powdered finely, and let it thoroughly dry on, then brush it off with a moderately stiff brush, stroking the feathers the right way, and it will be found that most, if not all, the stains will have disap- peared, having been soaked up by the whitening with the moisture. These few hints upon screens will be found useful in deal- ing with large birds, such as swans, herons, and other birds too large for hand screens, but which may be set up in the manner described, without a handle and affixed to a standard, like the old-fashioned banner screen ; but in. dealing with such, it will probably be advisable to further strengthen the wings by passing a strong wire up each of the pinion joints, tying it securely to the elbow joints, and to change the millboard for a stout piece of wood. We wish it, however, to be distinctly understood that the wanton destruction of birds for this purpose is strongly to be deprecated. There may always be found a large sup- ply of dead birds to select from, without having recourse to unnecessary cruelty. COOKERY.—XX. RIVER FISH. Boiling Fish. — The boiling of fish differs consider- ably, both in its object and the manner of effecting it, from the boiling of meat. In the latter it is often desired to get all we can out of it, and in cases where that is not the exact intention, still what is got out is not necessarily lost to a family’s consumption. In the former the object almost always is to keep all the nutriment we can inside the article which is boiled ; and what does issue from it in spite of our precautions is, in England at least, wasted and thrown away. Theoretically, therefore, all boiled fish ought to be plunged into boiling water, to set the albumen and curd in its flesh, and to fix in an insoluble form the particles which would have been dissolved in cold or tepid water. Practically, the rule must be observed with a certain degree of laxity. If a very large and thick-set fish, as an unusually fine salmon or cod—or only the half of one —be plunged in boiling water, as will be seen in the section “ Eggs,” the heat penetrates its substance but slowly, the outside and the thinner portions will be overdone while the inside near the bone will be still raw. The only means of obviating this is to put the fish into tepid water, and give it time to heat through gradually before coming to a boil. When, however, a large fish is scored or “ crimped ” (whether alive or dead) down to the bone, as cod is often treated, it may be set on the fire in boiling water, as the scoring has