CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. as it can be conveniently cleared. 7. By this time you i will have taken up and stored away the carrots, and thus ' rendered the space previously occupied by them ready for the reception of some other crop. Should this position be suitable for peas, a row or two might be put in with I advantage, about the sixteenth of the month. In any 1 case, let the ground be ridged up as soon as possible, so j that it may be well pulverised by the time you mean to ! make use of it. Any beets, celery, or parsnips may be j taken up before severe weather sets in, and stored away in a cool place ; but they must be covered over with earth or silver sand—the latter is preferable. 8. Endive, lettuce, and turnips occupying the main portion of this ! department, there will be a good deal of care required, i inasmuch as the endive will need blanching by covering ! over with an inverted flower-saucer or a board, for want i of a better contrivance. The lettuce will require tying-up slightly, while the turnips will merely want thinning out ji and keeping free from weeds. HYACINTHS ' cultivated in the open air, require soil of a light and j rich nature—such, for instance, as a mixture of one-third !i sandy loam and two-thirds well-decomposed manure; and j therefore, where the bed or border is of a damp and heavy j description, it will be necessary to add at least a third of silver sand, or light mould, to overcome the injurious fi effects of cold, clayey soil, or otherwise the bulbs would be i] sure to get mouldy, if not rotten. As it is most important I that the soil be fresh and sweet, the moment bedding j plants are done with see that the ground be properly I ridged up, so as to permit the air to pulverise it I; thoroughly prior to the bulbs being planted. The said I bulbs should be planted four inches deep, and from seven to eight inches asunder in every direction ; and as soon as they give indication of having made good root, let them S have a liberal supply of moisture, but not before. From the middle of October to the end of November is I the best time to plant in the open air, as, if put in earlier in the season, they are very apt to receive injury from frost V and wet. ! Those who contemplate rearing this much-admired Ij flower in pots should plant them singly, in pots four inches ' in diameter, and six inches deep. Our reason for advising this method is because, where several are planted together j in a large pot, one or two may fail, and thereby spoil the j effect; whereas, if they are grown singly, it is easy enough !! to mass perfect and healthy ones together without any risk ' of a failure, for the turning out or transplanting will in no ! way injure them. As soon as you have potted as many as you are likely to require, place them in a dry and level place, and cover I them with a six or eight inch layer of cocoa-nut fibre, ! tanners’ bark, sand, or decayed leaves, and over this lay a bast mat, or something of the kind to keep the rain off. They will require no water for eight or ten weeks, as the soil on which they stand contains sufficient moisture to serve them until uncovered at the expiration of that time, when they will have thrown out an ample supply of roots, and may then be gradually supplied with water. Such of the bulbs as show their flower truss through this temporary covering should be at once selected, and placed in a shady spot for a day or two ; but if required for forcing into bloom by Christmas, it wiU be necessary to remove them to a forcing pit, where they should be plunged up to the rims in a bottom heat of from seventy to seventy-five degrees. Many persons who attempt to force these bulbs fail, simply because they do not place them on a hard substance, and thereby prevent the roots shooting through the pots into the forcing material, and also because they ! do not shade them until the leaves have assumed a bright green hue. Where the stems have been too much ! forced it will be necessary to remove them to a cooler 191 temperature ; while, on the other hand, should the flower truss grow squatty, or close to the foliage, it will be neces- sary to increase the top heat, and place an inverted flower- pot over the plant; but as soon as the truss shows signs of flowering properly, the said pot may be raised out of the bottom heat, and have an ample supply of fresh air and moisture. These plants, after remaining on the surface of the bed for two or three days, should be removed to the greenhouse, or, for want of that, the sitting-room. If you do not want to force the plants into bloom before March, you need merely keep them in a dark place until such time as they have made good roots, without which fine blooms cannot be expected. To rear these bulbs successfully in glasses it will be necessary to fiU the receptacles with rain water, just high enough to touch the base or bottom of the bulbs, and no more ; and, having done so, remove them to a dark cup- board, or cellar, where light can be entirely excluded, and there let them remain for four or five weeks. At the expiration of that time they may be removed to the green- house or sitting-room, where an ample supply of light can be ensured, and a sudden change of temperature guarded against. So long as the roots are kept in the dark, there will be no necessity to change the water; but as soon as they are exposed to the light it will be advisable to remove one half the water once a week, and fill up the glasses with fresh without disturbing the roots. A little guano added to the water will tend to strengthen the plants, and thus improve their blooms. As a preventive against their growing spindly, and producing meagre trusses of flower, the room in which they are kept must not be too warm. CALISTHENICS FOR LADIES.—IV. EXERCISES WITH APPARATUS. In the present paper we propose to give our readers some brief descriptions of the mode of using such apparatus as the teachers of calisthenics permit. They serve to break the monotony of unassisted practice, and tend, in their several ways, to bring into special develop- ment the different muscles. We must, however, preface our remarks by saying that as the line of demarcation between gymnastics and calisthenics becomes wider, those who object to the former as applied to ladies would banish all apparatus from calisthenic teaching, except chest expanders and unweighted dumb-bells. Dumb-bells have a very ancient origin, and were well known to the Romans, They are made in cast-iron and in wood, the latter being suitable for feminine use. In many of the new kinds the balls unscrew, so that they can be weighted at pleasure. For women’s use they should be extremely light. The breathing throughout the exercises should be quick and deep. Starting from the position of attention, the body erect, the heels together, the dumb-bells are held firmly in the hands, which hang on either side of the body. N early all the exercises given in our last papers (pages 65 and 152) can be applied to dumb-bells. The following are, however, peculiarly applicable;—Chest exercises, I, 2, 5, 6, and 7 ; shoulder exercises, 3 and 4; arm and hand exercises, i and 2. The following are a special course :—Place the dumb- bells at the back, so that they touch each other (Fig. 29), the arms hanging as low as they can ; then bring them quickly to the front (Fig. 30), where they again meet; then raise them to the bust (Fig. 31), and swing them back again to the original position. Occasionally, the dumb-bell, instead of being grasped in the centre, is held by one end only, as in the accom- panying illustration (Fig. 32). Begin by holding the