35 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. HOUSEHOLD LAW.—II. PARENT AND CHILD. It might, perhaps, be thought that if any law were re- quired to regulate the relations between parent and child, it would be found innate in the human breast. But human nature has so many weaknesses, to say nothing of positive evil impulses, that we cannot allow ourselves to trust to it alone, and experience has shown that a public law is necessary, in order to define the relation in which parents and children stand towards each other, and towards those who are without. The law of Rome gave to a father the most absolute power over his children, at one period allowing him even the power of life and death; but always giving him ownership in all that his sons or daughters had, with power of disposing of it during his own lifetime. Only upon the father’s death did the children become free, un- less he had emancipated them previously, and in that case the children of the free were in their turn in legal bondage to their father. These principles never found favour in the West, and were not adopted even by those nations which engrafted the greater portion of the Roman law upon their own stocks. In this country the Roman law never had any footing, in spite of many strenuous efforts to import it; and the English law of parent and child is therefore not founded upon it, but upon those principles of general convenience and utility which suggested themselves as the demand for them came. The Duties hnposed upon Parents by the English law are the maintenance and protection of their children. It has been considered an unwarrantable thing that those through whose instrumentality children have been called into being, should be allowed to neglect those children, or to throw them as a burden upon others. This is a com- mon-sense view of the matter, and one that would be approved even by persons devoid of that natural affec- tion which is a law of itself to those who have it. It is required, then, of parents that they shall feed, clothe, and house their children ; but it does not follow legally from this that they must do so in a manner accord- ing with the style in which they themselves are living. So long as they arrange in such a way that the children are ndt chargeable to the parish, they may bring them up in what station of life they please. It might, no doubt, be matter for comment, if an unnatural father should deny to his children a share in the comforts he is able to procure; but the law would only compel him to provide them with actual necessaries. “ The policy of our laws,” says Black- stone, “ which are ever watchful to promote industry, did not mean to compel a father to maintain his idle and lazy children in ease and indolence ; but thought it unjust to oblige the parent against his will to provide them with superfluities and other indulgences of fortune, imagining they might trust to the impulse of nature, if the children were deserving of such favours.” Supposing, however, that the child be living away from home, and there is not any intimation given by the father of his own peculiarities, it will be understood that he intends his child to live in a manner consonant to that in which he himself lives ; and tradesmen supplying goods to such child will be able to recover from the father not only the price of such goods as were actually necessary to sustain life, but also of such other goods as were not incompatible with the father’s position in the world. What goods were necessary for the child’s existence, it is not difficult to determine; what other goods were, under the circumstances, allowable, is a question which is left to a jury to answer. Some of the decisions have been sufficiently remarkable. In one case it was held that a gold latch-key was “ necessary ” to an officer in the Life Guards, evidence having been given to show that it was the custom for the officers of that regi- ment to use gold keys. But in the same case it was held by the jur>', with the full approval of the court, that gold lockets, bracelets, and earrings, could not be “ necessary’ to an officer, and the items were struck out of the account A diamond ring was allowed to stand in a jeweller’s bill, for which an action was brought against a nobleman—the goods having been supplied to his son, an undergraduate at Oxford—on the ground that such an ornament was a common one among gentlemen in the young man’s posi- tion, and might therefore be considered in the light of a “necessary,” for which the father was chargeable. In- stances might be multiplied indefinitely: but the rule is, that where a father allows his child to be in that position, from which it might reasonably be supposed he intended him to be treated as his son, he will be liable for supplies made to him, in accordance with the appearance he allowed him to keep up. It is at all times competent, however, to a father to limit his liability, by giving notice that he will not be liable for any debts his child may incur ; and if he does this, by advertising for a reasonable time in such papers as are generally read, or by special notice to tradesmen and others in the places where his son may be, he will not be liable except for bare neces- saries, and even for these it is a question whether he will be made to pay, if he causes it to be known that he is paying his son a sufficient necessary allowance. So firmly, however, does the law hold to its rule that a parent shall maintain his children, that it requires the father to repay to a parish, on the rates of which the son has become chargeable, the value of the supplies made to him. By virtue of his office of guardian to his child a father may bring an action against any person injuring the child, and he may recover damages not cnly for the child, but for himself also, because the child is supposed to have been a help to his father, and damages are awarded to compensate for the loss of service. The Roman law carried the principle of parental maintenance so far that it would not allow a man to disinherit his children, that is to say, it would not allow him to leave more than three-fourths of his property away from his children. If he did so, his will was set aside as insane, and a fourth of the property was taken for the chil- dren’s benefit. At one time our law recognised the children’s right to “ a reasonable part ” of the father’s estate; but at the present day, the utmost freedom is given to testators in disposing of their property, and a man possessed of a million of money may, for all the law will interfere, leave the whole of his wealth away from his family. Education.—Up to a recent period parents were not under any legal obligation to educate their children, and were free to follow their own instincts on the subject; but by the “ Elementary Education Act, 1870,” a compulsory scheme of education is now enforceable where efficient instruction is not otherwise given, or where sickness or other unavoidable cause does not prevent attendance at the schools thereby instituted. Power of Parents over Children.—A father has a right to the custody of his children until they attain twenty-one years, and he may recover them, if detained from him, by the writ of habeus corpus. He is, however, sometimes deprived by his own misconduct of such custody ; some- times it is modified, so that the child is free at the age of fourteen ; but he must himself express his desire to leave the protection of his parents, and must do so in open court, or he will be given up to his father. Under the age of fourteen the child is absolutely within the power of his father, and any person enticing, stealing, or detaining a child under ten years of age, with intent to deprive its father or proper guardian of the charge of it, incurs the penalty of felony. A father has legal right to correct or chastise his child, so the punishment be not