14 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. iie cannot refuse admittance to a medical attendant called in by the servant at his own expense, during the time the servant is in the house. If he be annoyed by the visits of such medical man, or suspect him of misconduct, he can give his servant warning, and so get rid of the invalid and doctor together. Giving “ Characters.'’—The law does not oblige any one to give a “ character” to a servant. It is perfectly competent to a master or mistress to refuse one without assigning any reason for the refusal. If, however, a character be given, the law prescribes the circumstances under which it shall be given. The conversation or letter in which the character is given is a privileged communi- cation, and is exempt from the operation of the law of libel and slander, if the information be given in good faith, and without a malicious intent to injure the cha- racter of the servant. Proof of malice does away with the privilege, and lays the injurious character given open to an action for defamation. Short of covering malice, the law protects those who give characters honestly, that is to say, in accordance with what they know, and in accordance, also, with what they suspect; and even if what they say be untrue in fact, but yet honestly said, the law holds them excused. It may often happen that a mistress has good reason to suspect that her late servant was not in some particular what she should have been, though she may not have been able to bring an accu- sation home to her. Under such circumstances the character giver is warranted in disclosing to the character seeker what she really thinks. A statute of George III. provides that if any person shall personate a master and give a false character to a servant, or assert in writing that a servant has been hired for a period of time or in a station, or was discharged at any time, or had not been hired in any previous service, contrary to truth ; or if any one shall offer himself as a servant, pretending to have served where he has not served, or with a false certificate of character, or shall alter a certificate, or shall pretend not to have been in any previous service, contrary to truth, the offenders in such cases are liable, on conviction before two justices of the peace, to be fined twenty pounds, or in default, to be imprisoned, with hard labour, for from one to three months. Liability of Master (or Mistress) for a Servant.—A master may justify an assault committed in defence of his servant, as a servant may justify an assault committed in defence of his master. If any one cause or procure a servant to quit his master’s service, or hire him at the time he is in that service, so that he leave it before he be legally entitled to do so, the master can bring an action for damages against the new master and the servant. A master is not liable to his servant for any injury happening in the course of his employment, nor even for exposing him to extraordinary risk; but he is bound to have proper machinery in his business, and to employ competent co-servants ; and in default of so doing, in case of injury the master will be liable. For all acts of a servant done by command of the master, that master is responsible, as he is also for certain acts not done by his command, but done under circumstances that seem to warrant the idea that the master has consented to be responsible. If a servant, in pursuance of direct orders, shoots a neighbouFs dog, the master of the servant will be clearly responsible to the owner of the dog ; and if a man has a coachman who drives badly and runs into a carriage, that man, by trust- ing such a driver with the reins, is assumed to have undertaken the responsibility of his acts. Some one must suffer loss ; who so worthy as the man who caused it, by employing an unskilful servant ? If a blacksmith’s servant lame a horse in shoeing him, the blacksmith must make good the damage caused to the owner. It is at the same time no excuse to the servant who does an unlawful act, ! such as shooting the dog, that he did it by order of his master. He is not bound to obev any unlawful com- mand. If a servant commit an injury without the authority of his master, the master is not liable. So that if the laundry-maid at Mrs. A’s, having a quarrel with the laundry-maid at Mrs. B’s, destroys Mrs. B’s clothes-lines or throws lighted lucifer matches among the clothes hang- ing out to dry, so that the clothes are burned, Mrs. A is not liable. If the cook at Mrs. A’s come into Mrs. B’s house and says that her mistress is in need of change for a nve-pound note, and that if Mrs. B will give the cook the change, she will herself presently bring the note, in such a case, if the cook, unauthorised to say what she did goes off with the money, her mistress is not liable to make good the loss to the deceived person. If a servant procure articles on credit from a trades- man with whom her mistress has been in the habit of dealing for cash payments, it is the tradesman’s loss if the servant piove a cheat. If, however, the mistress has had articles sometimes for cash, sometimes on credit, it is her loss ; for the tradesman cannot know whether she has really ordered the goods or not. But by far the most preferable system is that now adopted by most respect- able tradesmen—namely, to have every order entered in a book,^ the tradesman undertaking not to supply any- thing without a written order from the customer. In the case of bankruptcy, servants are entitled to be paid in full all wages due at the date of the order of adjudication, for anytime not exceeding four months, and for any sum not exceeding ^50. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—I. INTRODUCTORY. In commencing a series of papers upon the subject we have before us, it is satisfactory to know, that while comparatively few people possess more than a very slight knowledge of the mode of construction of the commonest articles of domestic use, yet there ai-e a vast number of persons who, either from motives of economy, or for the sake of having an unfailing means of recreation, desire and seek after assistance and instruction on this subject. In writing these articles our aim will be, first to incite a taste for the constructive and mechanical arts, and then, by a series of familiar examples, beginning with the most simple forms, and gradually getting up to the more com- plex and difficult, to put the would-be learner in the way of educating himself, sufficiently at least for him to be able to accomplish any ordinary task likely to be re- quired in a moderate household. We shall also take it for granted that our readers are entirely ignorant of the smallest knowledge in handling a tool, and we must, therefore, ask those who have attained some slight pro- ficiency to bear with us if, in the first chapter or two, we enter rather more minutely into details than they might consider necessary. We shall first introduce to our readers the principal tools with which they will have to become acquainted, explaining briefly their separate uses and the principles which should govern their application, in order to produce the greatest effect with the least amount of labour, and also the means to be taken to preserve their effective- ness. Next we intend describing the nature and mode of treatment of the different woods and other materials likely to be required by the beginner, giving some idea of their different qualities; and having thus brought to- gether the objects to be worked—upon and the means of working them, we shall proceed to give practical directions for the construction of some common object found in every house, such as a door or window frame.