CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 309 CATTLE.—III. THE HOUSING, FEEDING, AND MANAGEMENT OF DAIRY COWS. Nothing differs more than the average produce of each cow in the various dairy districts of the United Kingdorn ; and between different individual dairies the variation is still more striking. Much of this may be accounted for on the ground of good or bad judgment in the selection of the stock, as pointed out in our last paper ; but still more depends upon the system of management, which in all old districts is still opposed to every conclusion of reason and science, and diminishes the profit accordingly. In fact, there is, in most quarters, an actual jealousy against any improved system which is very difficult to overcome, and which at first is puzzling to account for. But we think the reason is not far to seek. More im- proved systems have usually been seen or worked out on what are known as “ model ” farms, in many cases by costly, and sometimes disastrous, expe- riments, and nearly always under expensive buildings, and with appliances beyond the means of the plain man who has to “make his living” out of his dairy or farm; and hence the whole be- comes jumbled up in his mind as a “ new-fangled theory,” to which he prefers his own plain though faulty practice. Still, by degrees, certain undesirable principles and facts get indispu- tably established and adopted one after another by the most successful agriculturists; and at length the plainest and most plodding practical man finds that he micst adopt them also, or be left behind. This has, of late years, been eminently the case in regard to the economy and management of all kinds of live stock; and we are endea- vouring to give, in these papers, such practical rules as have been, after trial, conclusively estab- lished as the soundest and best, at the same time bearing in mind the ease and economy of their practical application. With regard to the management of all cattle, three grand principles have now been thoroughly established by the conclusive test of facts, i. That any given area of green crops, be it grass, clover, or roots, will support nearly double the number of animals if cut and carried to them elsewhere than if grazed. 2. That within reason- able limits wartnth is equivalent to so much food, which would otherwise be required to keep up the natural heat of the animal. 3. That manure made under cover is better than manure made in the open yard, whilst if dropped upon the land itself it is most wasteful of all. It is obvious that each of these principles condemns at once the old system of managing dairy farms, which consisted in keeping the cows in the open fields, killing a number at the approach of winter, and getting along in any possible way with the rest. By this system the animals ' injured the crops as much by the poaching of their feet as by what they actually ate ; they never yielded much in severe weather, and by spring were nearly starving ; while the manure was nearly wasted, and three or four acres were required for every cow. On the modern system, at least double the animals can be kept on the same quantity of land, while the milk per head is much increased in quantity, and the return is increased pro- portionately. Still there are circumstances which may make a system composed chiefly of grazing the cheapest and most ad- visable. If the pasture land be very rich, producing, say, 12 tons to the acre yearly, with no further expense or labour than weeding, keeping up fences, and supplying manure ; if these advantages be combined with a mode- rate rental, and if, finally, the dairy is the main object of all the operations of the year, it may answer better to depend almost altogether on the natural produce of the land, which will thus probably produce as much,76»r the money spent on it, as it can do in any other way. Even in such a case, however, the cows should be housed in all severe weather, and some addition to the food will be required at night if the supply of milk is to be kept up during the winter. But if the dairy be part of the regular economy of the farm, the advantages are all in favour of of stall-feeding, more or less thoroughly carried out, as the greater number of animals kept under cover, with the consequent increase in quantity and im- provement in the quality of their manure, will have a great influ- ence upon the other crops. For it is obvious that, supposing by spending on this system twenty shillings per season extra in wages and food the produce be only increased by the same amount, the additional manure will be a very great gain to the farmer. In fact, in many dis- tricts, bullocks are fattened for this purpose alone, the profit on the sale only paying for the bought food consumed, and all the farm produce given them being considered to be repaid by the manure thus manufactured. The first great point to attend to is to provide sheds or cow- houses which are at once suffi- ciently light and well ventilated, but free from any direct draught, " which is apt to cause many diseases. Very few, compara- tively, of the covered yards or sheds hitherto erected are quite satisfactory in this respect, the most usual fault being draught, arising from the admission of air in the lower part of the building. Indeed, no entirely satis- factory place, that we are aware of, was ever proposed to avoid this defect, and at the same time give thorough ventilation, until that invented by Mr. H. S. Thompson, of Kirkley Hall, Yorkshire, for his own farm buildings, and recently described by Mr. Morcross in the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society. By this plan, the whole of the ventilation is carried on through the roofj the provision for that purpose is ample, and the animals are kept in a temperature equable and healthy; whilst, at the same time, the plan of construction is simple, and adapted to any scale. In a future paper in the Household Guide, we shall give an illustration of Mr. Thompson’s principle as adapted to the general covering-in of the homestead in order to shelter the cattle, but we have here only to consider it as applied to a single building or range as a cow-shed or stall, which may be built on Mr. Thompson’s plan without one farthing’s additional ex- pense. Instead of the rafters reaching, as usual, from the eaves to the ridge, they are divided in two. The lower length is spiked, as usual, on to the eaves and middle rafter or parlin, but the upper ones, instead of being with