5° THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. to be required for the small jobs we shall probably meet in our household. Screw-driver.—Fig. 29 is the diagram of a screw-driver, a tool in which the only variation noticeable is in size. The longer the handle, of com-se the greater the power obtained. The point should not be ground up sharp, but bevelled nearly to an edge, so as exactly to fit the nick in the head of a screw. Screw-drivers are also fitted as bits, and used in the brace, a most convenient form where much screwing is to be done. Squares, Levels, —Fig. 30 shows the ordinary form of carpenter’s square, which consists of a thin, flat, steel Fig. 33- blade, A, which is riveted into a thicker piece of wood, B, at right angles to it, the inner edge of the wood being generally faced with brass. In using, the blade is laid flat on the wood to be squared, with the brass part of the handle held close up to the edge, and being brought to the required place, a line drawn along the metal edge will be exactly at right angles to the guide edge of the wood. Squares are also used in testing the ac- curacy of planed work, in which case the work should be held between the eye and the light, so that, on applying the tool, it will at once appear if it is at all untrue. Similar in principle and application is the mitre bevel. Fig. 31, which is a handle, B, with a shifting blade. A, which can be set at any required angle by the screw, c. The blade can be drawn out to the full extent of the slot in it, by which means a much longer line can be drawn. When not in use, the blade is turned round and brought in a line with the handle, in which position it occupies very little space. Fig. 32 shows the form of larger squares used by masons and others, which also serve as levels and tests of upright lines, by means of the plumnret and line, C. For the horizontal test, it may be used on the same position as in the'diagram, or turned over with the side, B, downwards, in which case the plumb-bob falls into the hole at E. The opposite side, D, held to vertical work, will test its uprightness. The plummet will fall in this case into the hole E, as with the last. Fig. 33 shows a common form of spirit- level, which consists of a hollow tube of glass, closed at each end, and full of spirits of wine, all but a small bubble of air. This tube is mounted in a block of wood, faced with brass, in the centre of which is an opening, through which the tube is seen ; across the slit is a thin line, which marks the exact middle of the level, and when placed on the surface to be tested. Fig. 34- the bubble should stand exactly under this index if the work is correct. Levels are of many different shapes, and are sometimes found set in rules or squares ; but in all forms their application is the same. Analogous in use to squares and levels are carpenters’ straight-edges, often called winding-sticks, which are simply parallel slats of wood about two feet long, with their edges planed per- fectly true. Suppose a long block of wood has been planed up to an apparently true surface, place one straight- edge on each end, and parallel to one another ; bring the eye down so as to get the two sticks in a line, and if any twist should exist in the log of wood, the greater length of the straight-edge will magnify the fault. If, however, t'ne two sticks appear, when foreshortened, exactly parallel, the work is correct. One edge of a straight-edge is usually berelled to a point, which is used for testing long surfaces. by bringing this sharp edge in contact with the work when between the eye and the light. If the light is seen plainly through at any part, it is obvious that that part is too low, and therefore the surrounding portions must be reduced to the same level. For gauging across narrow logs, the metal edge of the square is mostly used in the same manner. For marking across the grain, a tool is used called a striking knife, shown in our illus- tration, Fig. 34, which is a blade sharpened with a slanting edge, which is bevelled from both sides. The other end of the blade terminates in a point, which is used for such purposes as pricking holes as guides for the position of nails, &c. Vices.—These useful contrivances are almost indispen- sable if any work in metal is attempted; but should our amateur only desire to work in softer materials, he will find the screw bench, to be described hereafter, answer his purpose, or at all events will only need a smMl table- vice. Fig. 35 shows the usual arrangement for the larger A kinds of vices, called tail-vices, from the fact that one oi its arms is prolonged downwards into a tail, B, which rests on the floor, and contributes much to the steadiness of the hold. The work is held between the jaws. A, which are closed by turning the handle working the screw, C, the jaws opening, when released, by the action of the spring, D. These vices should be screwed firmly to the bench or table. Table-vices are much the same as the above, but smaller, and have no tail, but are screwed to the edge of the bench. They are only fit for light work, however. In both the above, the insides of the jaws are faced with steel, and cut into teeth, in order to increase the holding power; these teeth, however, are liable to injure the surface of finished work, if such is required to be held. To prevent this, clamps are used, made of soft metal, and may be had ready to fit the jaws; although, for nearly all purposes, nothing answers better than two strips of thick sheet lead, the length of the jaws, and about three or four inches wide, nipped half-way in, and the remaining half bent over on each side with a hammer, so as to fit round the jaws and keep on them when opened. For holding round bars or pipes, a pair of clamps, like a and b. Fig. 35, will be found useful. « is a piece of angle iron, and b is similar, but thicker on one side, which side is filed out into a--gap, c; the three faces formed by the 'sides of the neck and the clamp a giving a vastly increased grip on rods, &c., besides altogether preventing them from slipping out of the upright position.