CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. loi crowded thoroughfare. As already observed, the house is not the whole of home, but it goes far to make one ; and it is our duty to do all we can to have a bright and healthy dwelling, and as many domestic conveniences as we can get. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—VII. THE carpenter’s BENCH. Fig. 48 shows the simplest possible kind of carpenter’s bench, but it is almost needless to state that it is not an absolute necessity. Any solid old table, or wide shelf, about two feet nine inches or three feet from the ground, can be used to plane up a piece of wood upon if a screw or nail be driven in as a stop for the wood ; but there would then be no means of holding a board on edge for the purpose of planing it, and we shall therefore describe the figure for the benefit of those who wish may make a bench for themselves. A bench may be made either as a fixture or movable ; the former, of course, will be preferable. It consists of a strong frame, firmly mor- ticed and screwed together, and strengthened by a thick plank along the front, and in width two to three feet across the top, which should be of planks not less than two inches thick. In front, and at the head of the bench Fig. 48, is the bench vice, consisting of the board B, which screws in and out by means of the screw c, which works in a wooden nut fast- ened behind A, the further end being supported by the rod D, which projects from the sliding board through A, in which it slides loose. The screw c is turned by the handle F, and the vice is opened or shut according to the direction. The wooden spike at M falls into a small groove in the screw C, and keeps the shifting board close up to the head of the screw when turned outwards. The slide D is often replaced by a screw like c, and this, perhaps, is a better arrangement. The stop E may be simply a square log, fitting tightly into a hole in the bench top, and having a few sharp teeth at its edge, which bury themselves into the wood required to be held and keep it in its place. The stop is knooked up or down with a mallet, but soon works loose. A better form of stop is that of which we give an illustration in Fig. 49. It consists of a plate, B, to which is hinged at D the knife C, which is screwed down by the screw E, and the edge K being cut into teeth, which stick into the wood, as in diagram. The spring F, coiled in the box underneath, keeps the plate well up to the head of the screw, but the top plate c can be screwed down quite level with the bench top, which is a great advantage, as it then cannot be at all in the way. The lower plate is let into a hole morticed in the wood of the bench, to which the whole is fastened by the screws H I. The screw principle introduced here gives great advan- tages over the hammering up or down of a plain block, from the fineness of the adjustment obtainable, enabling the workman to plane the thinnest boards without danger of taking a piece out of his plane-iron. The price of this dog is about three shillings. There are several other patent stops, but this seems the simplest. The bench hook H is useful for holding down blocks to be morticed, and other purposes. It is nothing but a piece of strong iron bent something like a crook, and fitting loosely into the hole in the bench at K. The block to be held is placed under the part H, and a sharp blow with a mallet on the top of the crook fixes it. A blow on the back at I releases the work. HINTS TO LETTER-WRITERS.—II. Of all faults in letter-writing the most important to be avoided is bad grammar. Those who are not in the habit of writing much are very apt to blunder in their grammar, although well and correctly-expressed sentences are among the chief excellencies of a letter. Everything should be said in as easy and natural a style as possible, without any attempt at quaintness and originality. A letter is not a fine oration, to be adorned with rhetorical flourishes ; nor a poem, to be filled up with pompous and high- sounding phrases. The choice of words is very important. They should in no case be low and vulgar, and any approach to what is called “ slang ” is to be avoided most carefully. On the other hand there must be no fool- ish ambition to use uncom- mon and pretentious words, the meanings of which have to be sought out in a dic- tionary. It is necessary to vary the style according to the persons addressed. To relatives and intimate ac- quaintances the style may be more lively, cheerful, and unrestrained. Playful and affectionate epithets can in such cases be properly in- troduced. When, however, one writes to superiors or strangers, all that is written should be in as calm and dignified a manner as can be adopted, provided only that the language be always simple and intelligible. We advise persons who keep a diary, or put down notes of occurrences, or write memoranda, to adopt the style in which they ought to write to strangers and superiors. Now and then letters have to be addressed to persons of rank and title, or to others, in speaking to whom society requires attention to certain formalities. There is an etiquette in these things, inattention to which is nothing but a breach of good manners. It is therefore very desirable that we should learn how to address persons of rank and title, and, in fact, eve^body we write to. In addressing ordinary gentlemen it is enough to style them Sir, at the beginning and end of letters. If we have some knowledge of them, we may say Dear Sir ; and if we are intimate with them we may say My dear Sir. A similar rule applies to ladies, who, under corresponding circum- stances, are addressed as Madam, Dear Madam, or My dear Madam. It is a custom with some, who feel that they need not be quite so formal, to head and end their letters by saying My dear Mr. Jones, or Dear Mr. Jones 5 A still greater familiarity is allowed in addressing very intimate friends, and it is not rude to say in such a case, My dear Jones. Nay, there are cases in which personal names can be employed, but prudence must dictate con- cerning these : they may safely be admitted in writing to brothers, and sisters, and cousins, and also in addressing playmates and school-fellows. We reserve to another occasion the forms employed in addressing titled persons.