CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 341 After cleaning, marinade or pickle it in wine, salt, and vinegar, with the addition of any spices or aromatics you please. Six or eight hours will not be too long for it to remain there. You may then boil it either in Court- Bouillon (see p. 323), or in wine diluted with broth or water. When the fish is cooked, lay it, without breaking it, in its dish (without a strainer) ; take enough of the boilings to make your sauce ; add to it the blood, some thickening and browning, some seasonings, in which you will be guided by your own discretion, as custom allows you a very broad margin in the preparation of this pretentious dish. Pour the boiling sauce over your carp, and make a prominent display of the milt or roe. Stewed Carp, under various high-sounding names, may be garnished with the most incongruous and expensive things that a cook’s imagination can devise—with orna- ments of puff-paste, crawfish, cockscombs, turkey pinions, forcemeat balls, sliced sweetbreads, truffles, dear little dickey-birds, and what not besides. Broiled carp, even with caper-sauce, is not a dish for the gods nor yet for the goddesses. In short, considering the carp’s intelligent and familiar disposition ; considering that it is a want of the respect due to age to partake of a creature who may be excellent, make a tasty garnish to lay round large dishes of any boiled fish. Small perch (in company with carp, tench, jack, eels, and whatever else comes to hand) are turned perhaps to the best advantage in The Mariner's Matelote.—With the matelote of eggs we gave the meaning of the word. Take live fish, various and sundry ; clean them without washing them; for mariners hold that fish, once out of water, should never go back to it. Cut it in pieces withovt losing the blood. Put all into a stewpan with a couple of dozen of small white onions, scalded, and almost cooked enough. Season with salt, pepper, bay-leaf, and lemon-peel. Pour in enough claret or red vin ordinaire to cover the fish. Boil over a smart fire, taking care that the wine does not catch fire. Put in a lump of butter as big as a walnut. Arrange your fish on slices of toasted bread, and pour the sauce over them. Breani and Roach are hardly worth the cooking. You may salt and stew the large ones, and make a fry of the small ones, together with gudgeon, bleak, dace, and any other “ such small deer” that can find room in the pan. Pike., Boiled Whole.—The pike, like carp and most THE CARP. older than your great-grandfather, should he be alive; and considering that, to eat, he is only a fourth-rate fish, we prefer petting and feeding a carp to feeding on him. Stewed Tench.—Tench are always bought alive. They spawn later, and therefore continue in season later in spring than the carp. As the skin is invariably eaten, carefully remove all the scales, which are small and deep- set. The previous pickling, as with carp, is not necessary, but the fish will be all the better for it. Then treat it in the same way as for stewed carp, omitting the extravagances, and cooking it in the least quantity of liquor possible. As the boilings from tench become, when concentrated, a jelly, stewed tench makes a handsome as well as a palatable dish cold, for which purpose it may be a little more highly seasoned. Indeed, we are heretical enough to prefer a fine tench to his much be-praised cousin the carp. Boiled Tench.—Prepare as above, and boil in salt and water acidulated with vinegar when cold. It may be served with any full-flavoured sauce you prefer. Perch is an excellent fish, with white, firm, well-flavoured flesh, when taken from waters that are clear and deep. When you buy it dead, see that the eyes are bright and the gills rosy red. It is difficult to scale ; plunging it in boiling water a minute will help you ; but ask the fish- monger to clean it for you, and beg of him not to flay it. Perch boiled in vinegared water, and served with essence of anchovy sauce, is a delicate and dainty dish, light, and easy of digestion. Fried perch, bread-crumbed, also other fresh-water fish, is m season throughout the cold months of the year, up to the time of its spawning in spring. It then becomes “indisposed” to appearance at table, recovering its health, also with carp, when wheat comes into flower. As this event conveys no precise date to most town residents, we would advise them to extend the close season a little longer, and leave pike unmolested till the beginning of August. It is best to buy pike alive, which is frequently possible. Fish that have died in the water, confined and starved in boxes, or forgotten in hoop-nets, are of quite inferior quality. Snared or speared pike are sometimes much injured by the wire or the spear. If killed immediately, the fish ii none the worse to eat, and the unsightly scar can be con- cealed with garnishing. Pike from muddy waters (the same of eels, carp, and tench) are improved by keeping a few days or a week in a tank fed with a current of pure spring water, and giving them a few gudgeons and roach to serve both as companions and prey. The usual advice in selecting fish is to take short plump individuals, and to leave those of longer and slenderer proportions. This, however, must be accepted with a certain reservation. With the pike, as with many other fish, the difference of figure is distinctive of sex, the female being short and deep, the male long and slender. The flesh of both, in season, is good; the main question of preference lies between the roe and the milt towards the close of winter. There is a tradition that the pike is an introduced fish.