62 THE TOILETTE. but black and white are often met with. Besides the well-known long-haired breed, there is a variety of the large Newfoundland, with a short coat resembling that of a mastiff, but thicker and more dense ; this, however, is not common. There is also a curly-haired variety; but this kind of coat is rather troublesome to keep in good order, unless the animal can have constant access to the water. We give an illustration of this very favourite variety of dog. Besides the large Newfoundland, there is a smaller variety, known as the Labrador dog, which is only about twenty inches high at the shoulder. Peeler, the celebrated “dog of the police,” one of the most re- markable examples on record of canine sagacity, was a Labrador Newfoundland. It should be observed, that although the Newfoundland dog is generally of an excellent temper, there are many individuals of a very surly character; and the variety, though bearing the antics of children with great complacency, cannot bear to be long deliberately teased so well as some others. The animal’s great intelligence seems to resent such unworthy treatment. Next to the Newfoundland naturally come the spaniels and retrievers, which show a strong resemblance to it in conformation—indeed, the Labrador is often called a spaniel. Of these we propose to treat in our next article on this subject, as well as of the other principal varieties of dogs most commonly used in sport. This branch of our subject being exhausted, we shall pass on to the feeding and rearing of the animal, together with an account of the principal diseases to which he is liable, and the most approved methods of treating them. THE TOILETTE.—III. THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SKIN {continued from p. Sea-Bathing.—Sea water is rather more stimulating than ordinary water, and this difference is perhaps the only one of any importance to be considered in reference to this subject—that is to say, so far as the action of the sea water itself upon the body is concerned. It can be readily understood that if ordinary bathing is sometimes followed by disagreeable results, because it is employed in an injudicious manner, or at an improper time, ill effects are much more likely to arise under similar cir- cumstances when the skin is stimulated by sea water. We do, indeed, discover that sea-bathing occasionally does harm ; it is said not to “ agree ” with this or that person or child, and such an opinion is now and then firmly held by parents and others. But it is often an unfair conclusion, for the simple reason that proper pre- cautions have not been taken to use the sea douche, as before observed, fairly and at the right time. It is also true that in some exceptional instances sea-bathing cannot be taken with comfort under any circumstances— when the best precautions are taken to prevent its dis- agreement. But these examples are rare; and in the majority of cases in which it seems objectionable, sea- bathing can be had recourse to with benefit, if it be used with proper regulations. N ow, as in the ordinary bath, we should be particular not to bathe when the surface is too much cooled, nor allow the body to be chilled. Half should not be out and half in the water for any length of time, but the whole immersed. The bather should not go into the sea too soon after a meal, nor when he is exhausted, but when moderately warm by exercise, or on first getting up in the morning, if he or she be in very vigorous health. In the case of children, it is best that they wait till the sands have become thoroughly warmed by the sun, when the water is consequently warmest. They should not be permitted to go into the sea late in the evening, es- pecially if the weather be in the least degree inclined to be chilly. The best time of all, perhaps, is in the afier- noon ; but there is no reason why a dip, as before ob- served, should not be taken in the morning, if the weather be suitable. The bather should be careful not to alter his usual habits. Children, of course, dine in the middle of the day. They are ready for their plunge two hours afterwards. We think it best that the sea water should be allowed to come into direct contact with the body, without the intervention of any dress. It is best to follow this plan where it is convenient to do so. On entering the sea, bathers should go thoroughly into it, and not dabble about, to get chilled knee-deep in the water. There is more harm done in this than in any other way, and it is the fault of young ladies. Bathers should keep moving about, frequently dip, and, at the outset of sea-bathing, be a short time in the water. The latter is a most important consideration, and must be noticed a little more in detail. When an individual com- mences bathing, it is best that he or she take one or two plunges, and then leave the water. After the next two or three days, five minutes’ immersion may be allowed ; but it should be noticed if there is any feeling of chilliness. If SO', the time should even be lessened, when a glow is felt after one or two plunges into the sea, but a cold- ness if the bather remains longer in the water. It may be well to take the bath twice a day; but for short intervals each time. The majority of persons, however, especially if they bathe in the afternoon, when the water is somewhat warmed, will be able to remain immersed for ten minutes, and this is quite long enough for the majority of persons. At all events, when the first sensa- tion of chilliness or coldness is experienced, the bather should leave the water. Much harm is done by a pro- tracted stay in the water, so as to check the reaction of the skin. Instead of the sea water acting as a stimulant, it then acts as a depressant. The bather on coming out of the water should dress at once and rapidly. The con- veniences at our watering places are not what they should be; towels should be dry and warm, and it should be possible to have a pail or foot bath, with warm water to stand in, especially for ladies and children, so as not only to rinse the feet, but as a preventive against the body being chilled. Reaction should be encouraged by vigorous friction of the body, and the bather, when dressed, should take a short and brisk walk, which will call the circulation into activity, if it be at all inclined to flag. If there be any actual shivering or chilliness, a little warm tea or wine and water, or some warm simple, may be required. We have finished with the treatment of the skin in health, and now proceed to speak of its management when it becomes disordered. DISORDERS OF THE SKIN. Dry Skm.—The skin may be dry generally or only in certain places. In the former case it may be a congenital disorder. Every now and again one sees children at six months or a year old exhibiting a peculiar harsh, dry, and somewhat wrinkled state of skin. They never perspire, feel the cold very much, and winds chafe their skin. There is more or less scaliness, and often little dark plates collect about the ankles, knees, and other parts of the body. These can be picked off, leaving the skin harsh and rough, like a nutmeg-grater almost. In these severe cases much may be done, under medical advice, by the use of baths and frictions, with oil or glycerine, to make the sufferer comfortable. I n other cases a dry skin is not an affair which is congenital, but it comes on in after life—in the child as well as the adult. The skin looks dirty and muddy besides feeling dry; it itches, and scratching produces pimply eruptions. This state usually arises from a neglect of the