CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 265 Fig. 5 is a lily centre. The pistil is formed of white wax, painted green with a knob at the top, marked with carmine spots. The stamens are of wire dipped in wax, or covered with tissue paper, white, finest at the tip, and large anthers of wax, coloured brown, upon them. Calyxes.—Gum together three thicknesses of dark green tissue-paper, and let them dry before cutting the calyxes. Afterwards glaze them with gum. It would be endless to give patterns of the different forms of calyxes, the artist must go to Nature for patterns. We give three, in Figs. 2, 6, and 9. They should be traced in tissue and then cut in card. Lay the card on the green paper and pencil the outline. The Azalea and the Rho- dodendron.— Fig. 12 repre- sents the aza- lea. Cut the blossoms in white paper,the dark marks at the tips are made by tint- ing them with a little of the moist carmine, diluted to a delicate rose pink and laid on with a clean camel’s - hair brush. Let it be quite dry before being crimped. It is laid on a cushion and carefully and deeply veined in the manner shown in the illustration. Then touching it with cement from A to B, unite it. Tie with silk or wire a heart to a stem. Then slip it through the azalea, having first touched the lower part of the heart all round with cement. The azalea needs no calyx. Take a very little wadding, and put it round the stem where the flower joins, drawing it down : then cover the stem with paper. A little wadding is used in this way to all flowers, to give the stem the thickness observable to- wards the blossom. The merest atom is needed for such flowers as azaleas, not much more foi roses. About three azaleas form a group. Other azaleas may have a margin all round the edge of deep rose, and others may be cut from pink or rose-coloured paper, and just tipped or touched round a little darker. Rhododendrons are made exactly the same, but coloured with a broad margin of mauve round every petal; the extreme edges touched again when the first tint is dry, to make them darker. Mix on a clean plate, carmine and cobalt for this; dilute it with water, but do not use it very wet to the flower, nor yet dry enough to look smeared. It must be washed on lightly and easily with one stroke. The rhododendron centres are distinct, and the blossoms in groups of five or more, of equal height, forming one head. The azaleas, on the contrary, grow one above tire other and fewer in a spray. If you wish to place a single spray of any flower in a vase, a few leaves of the right kind must be set on the stem. For a basket, rose and camellia leaves are enough.. For a table stand, rose-leaves, grass, and ferns. A half - blown Rosebud.— Half-blown buds are very effec- tive. Make them in white paper slightly tipped with pale pink, or in pink or rose paper, or in orange paper streaked with red, cutting the outsides. of the darkest shades, and the darkest towards the stalk. To make one of these deep yellow buds, use four petals of the largest size but one of the cab- bage rose, cut in the palest tint from, shaded paper. Goffer them in- wards. Close two over a bud centre, and two more over that. Then cut eleven of the largest - sized petals, a still darker shade^ and another eleven of the darkest of all. Goffer and cut them out- wards, and let the darker shade be the outer one. A bud centre is made by cutting a three - cornered piece of paper the shape of the rose. Take a piece of cotton wool, tie it to a stalk, and cover it with the paper as in Fig. 13. Tie it down. This cone must not be visible. For an ordinary bud, cut three of the second largest-sized petals of the darkest tint, goffer them inwards and close them over the cone. Cut three more of the largest size, goffer them and curl them outwards. Place these round the bud like opening leaves. Carnation.—The carnation is a beautiful flower, and easy to make. Cut it in white paper like Fig. 4, and with powder carmine and a little weak gum water,, mixed together well on a plate, colour a brilliant red the dark band with streaky edges. When quite dry, place it on the cushion and vein every petal from A to B, drawing the pincers down in deep irregular marks. Six of these circles are used for ever>^ flower. It is easiest to cut them out plain first and Vandyke the edges, and cut the irregular marks