HINTS ON ARRANGING THE DINNER-TABLE. 98 it in tins, covering it with a lid soldered down so as to be air-tight, with the exception of a small hole, then boiling it in a solution of chloride of calcium in water, so as to drive off a considerable proportion of its water, and, when done, filling up the hole with solder. The meat thus prepared, which is known as “Australian meat,” is generally too ' much done, owing to the high temperature (about 250° F.) to which it has been exposed. Another method has been patented, in compliance with which the meat is subjected to great pressure, by which the water and other matters held in suspension and solution are forced out, and it is then cooked at an ordinary temperature. The expressed juices of the meat are boiled down separately, so that the whole of its nutritive properties can be thus obtained, although in two different portions. Another plan has lately been found to some extent successful—viz., that of bringing quarters of beef and mutton from America in rooms kept somewhat above the freezing-point, with a free j current of air of the same temperature passing through them; this meat, when exposed for sale, fetched good prices in the Metropolitan Meat Market. ’ Good meat is of a full red colour, neither very dark nor pale, unless it be veal or pork. It should have a fair proportion of fat, be juicy, and, when cooked, be full- flavoured and tender. The lean of every kind of meat is nearly of the same nutritious value ; but its flavour varies with the kind of animal and its mode of feeding. Fat meat is more nourishing, weight for weight, than lean, although more difficult of digestion, as the fat replaces the water to a considerable extent. Thus, the beef of ordinary store oxen contains about 60 per cent, of water ; of half-fat oxen, which are those usually sold, about 54 per cent.; and of fat oxen about 45 per cent.; so that in purchasing fat meat we get nearly one-fourth less water than in lean meat, and the joint is therefore worth con- siderably more per pound. The same obtains to a rather greater extent as regards veal, mutton, and pork. There is, however, less nitrogenous or flesh-forming matter in fat than in lean meat, so that the fat has not only replaced the water but also the solid red meat, but to a less extent than the water—viz., about one-sixth. This remark applies to very fat meat only, as in “half-fat” meat the reduction of flesh-formers is scarcely worth calculating. The flesh of other animals exhibits a similar change, and to about the same extent. The offal is more than one-third of the total weight of the animal, but as this includes (except pigs) the head, tongue, liver, and other parts which can be eaten, so large a reduction as one-third should not be made from our food supplies in calculating the weight of imported or home-produced food. The flesh-forming matter in poultry is greater, and the fat less, than in butcher’s meat, so that it is very suitable for invalids or ether persons with weak digestion. The proportions are as follows :—Beef, 15 to 18 per cent, of lean ; veal, 16 ; mutton, 10 to 15 ; pork, 10 to 14 ; poultry, 18 to 21 ; and rabbit somewhat less. As regards fat, it varies in beef from 16 to 35 per cent.; in mutton from 23 to 55 ; in pork from 28 to 50; and in poultry it is, on an average, about 4 per cent. We will state here, once for all, that fat is considered to be only a heat-generating food, whilst lean is both heat-generating and flesh-forming. Of course all meat contains fat, as we have just mentioned, and therefore “ fat meat ” must be understood to mean meat which has a percentage of fat in excess of the average for the parti- cular kind of animal under consideration ; as lean mutton and pork contain as much fat as moderately fat beef. The flesh of fish contains a larger proportion of water than butcheFs meat, or poultry, as the amount of water varies, e.xcept in the case of the eel, between 77 and 86 per cent. In poultry it is about 74 per cent. ; and in meat it ranges between 33 and 62 per cent. The fat in most fish does not exceed 3 per cent, but in the eel it is often above 20 per cent. (Payen), in mackerel about 6j, and in salmon about 6 per cent. The nitrogenous or flesh-forming part of fish is about the same as in good meat—viz., from 16 to 18 per cent. ; so that, with plenty ' of good melted butter or sauce with cream, fish affords a very nourishing diet; but, with certain exceptions, it is not so satisfying as meat—and, indeed, white fish is not fitted for constant use to the exclusion of meat, unless milk and eggs are also freely eaten. Fish also contains more phosphor-constituents than meat, and is therefore well suited for those who have much mental labour to perform. Eggs are also very nourishing, as they contain about 70 per cent, of water and 30 per cent, of solid matter, of which about one-third is fat. They are not so readily digested as fish, taking about three hours, but they do j not afford so much nitrogenous matter per cent, as meat, and are therefore inferior to it in nutritive value if taken weight for weight. HINTS ON ARRANGING THE DINNER- TABLE. So much of the general comfort of a dinner depends upon the neatness and taste with which it is served, that a few hints regarding the proper arrangement of the table will probably be useful to our readers. Of course, the actual laying-out of the table must depend upon circum- stances—the viands to be served, the number of the family, or guests expected, and the means of the host. The cleanliness of the linen, and the knives, forks, spoons, &c., should, of course, always be scrupulously regarded. A very clever writer on this subject says, “ Everything should be brilliantly clean, and nothing should be placed on it except what is wanted.” It is desirable, if possible, not to have lights upon the table, or anything in the shape of flowers, raised dishes, or the like, which may interrupt the freest communication between the guests. It is also important that the salt should look neat. Most persons use prepared salt. This will cake in cellars, and should be removed at least once a week into a pie-dish, crushed and replaced. Common salt must be grated fine after it has been placed in the oven to dry ; then laid between a folded paper, and pressed with a rolling-pin till perfectly smooth. Bread for table should be cut in thick squares, very evenly. The napkins, when used for the first time, should be neatly folded, enclosing the bread, and after- wards brought to table in rings. Joints which require carving should always be placed on commodiously large dishes, otherwise they give a great deal of trouble, and splash the gravy. However crowded the table may be, the carver must have plenty of room, and it is most important that the knives should be in good order. Nothing is more irritating to a carver, or more indicative of bad household management, than the unpleasant necessity of sharpening knives before meat can be helped. One or more sets of cruets should be placed upon the table, according to the size of the party, containing the different sauces, flavours, &c., that are con- tinually wanted. Space at table can be gained by placing entremets which do not need carving, in small dishes, to be renewed if needed, or by handing them round. The vegetables also may be placed on a sideboard, if there be insufficient room at table. It is a common practice nowadays to hand all dishes round, but there are still a very large number of people who like to Tiave everything upon the table, in order, as far as possible, to dispense with atten- dance, and the necessity of continually asking for something.