DOMESTIC SURGERY, 372 should never be used for turning meat. A small pair of steak tongs soon defray their cost in the amount of nourishment they save. If a fork iiutst be used, the cook should avoid sticking it in the prime part of the meat. Broiled meats should not be sent to table m gravy, still less should the meat be slashed to supply a gravy. A little pepper and salt, just before removing the meat from the fire, is all the relish usually necessary. The plates and dishes cannot well be too hot on which a broil is served. The above are the simple rudiments of plain cooking, and should be familiar to every servant who undertakes a cook’s situation in an English household. It is not possible here to give full details of the duties of a cook, who should, however, understand the making of pies, puddings, pastry, and bread in general; she must also know how to prepare sauces, gravies, and soups ; she must be competent to dress vegetables, and prepare all ordinary herbs ; she is to know the value and importance of her stock-pot, and to see that it is never forgotten ; she is expected to be acquainted with the most effectual methods of keeping provisions, uncooked or cooked ; she must look well to all the arrangements of her larder, kitchen, and kitchen utensils, and must know how to serve up all ordinary dishes. In many families some of the duties of the housekeeper fall to the cook’s share of work, and will form the subject of another chapter. DOMESTIC SURGERY.—VII. TEETHING. The Gums and Teeth.—The proper care of the teeth as organs most essential for the preservation of health, cannot be too strongly impressed upon parents. Many of the illnesses of childhood are directly connected with the eruption and development of the teeth ; and these will be more particularly referred to in other papers, the object of the present article being only to point out those facts in connection with the teeth which every well-educated father and mother should be acquainted with. Each individual has two sets of teeth, the temporary and the permanent; the former being contained in the jaws at birth, and taking their proper positions within the first three years of child- hood, the latter being at the same time developed in the jaws and appearing from the sixth to the twenty-first years. The temporary teeth are twenty, and the permanent thirty-two in number. In the illustration (Fig. 23), taken from the jaws of a child of from six to seven years old, the whole of the temporary teeth are seen in their proper positions, and in addition, the crowns of four of the permanent teeth have appeared through the gum at the back of the temporary set. The remaining permanent teeth are those embedded in the jaws, and at present im- perfectly developed. The teeth of the two jaws correspond in number and form, and the temporary teeth are as follows ;—In the centre of each jaw are four cutting or incisor teeth ; on each side of these is a pointed canine or eye tooth ; and beyond these again two grinding or molar teeth. In the permanent set the teeth are of course larger, and are the following ;—There are four incisors, two canine, and four small pre-molar or bicuspid teeth, as in the child ; but, in addition, there arc on each side three large grinding or molar teeth, the last of which is called the wisdom-tooth, from its being cut only when years of discretion are sup- posed to have been reached. The period at which each tooth makes its appearance through the gum is pretty constant, though it will depend somewhat upon the growth and health of the child. On an average, the central incisors arc cut about the seventh month ; the lateral incisors from the seventh to the tenth month ; the front molars from the twelfth to the fourteenth month ; the canines from the fourteenth to the twentieth month ; and the back molars from the eighteenth to the thirty-sixth month. The permanent teeth appear in a dif- ferent order, the earliest being the first molars ; and these appear in the sixth year, and take their places irnme- diately behind the temporary teeth. The two middle incisors are cut about the seventh year, and these neces- sarily displace all four of the temporary teeth; the two lateral incisors appear in the eighth year; the first bicuspids in the ninth year ; the second bicuspids in the tenth year; the canines from the eleventh to the twelfth year ; the second molars from the twelfth to the thirteenth year; and the wisdom-teeth from the seventeenth to the twenty-first year. It is to be understood that the above enumeration applies to both jaws, but that the teeth of the lower jaw are usually a little earlier in their appearance than those of the upper jaw. Lancing the Gums.—When an infant is cutting its teeth its mouth is hot, and the gum is swollen and tender. Great relief may be afforded, and even its life may be saved, should it be subject to convulsions, by freely lancing the gums. This operation should of course be performed by a medical man, if one can be procured, but, in case of urgent need, a parent would be justified in performing it himself, if provided with a proper instrument, and having some knowledge of the subject. The gum-lancet is a steel instrument of the shape shown in Fig. 24, and may be procured of any surgical instrument-maker. In lancing the gums of the lower jaw it will be most convenient to have the infant held against the breast of a nurse, and in the sitting position, when the operator, sitting or kneeling in front, must steady the jaw with the left hand, as shown in Fig. 25, and with the right make a steady cut on the top of the inflamed gum down to the crown of the tooth, against which the edge of the lancet should be made to grate. In lancing the gum of the upper jaw, the infant may be most conveniently held on the knees of a nurse, and with the head fixed between the knees of the operator, who can then lean over and see clearly what he is about. Lancing of the gums should only be resorted to when the tooth makes a prominence through the gum, and it will therefore usually make its appearance in a day or two. If, however, the gum has been lanced a little pre- maturely, no harm will have been done, the gum being more yielding after than before the operation, and the haemorrhage, which is never of any amount, serving to relieve the over-distension of the part. Care of the Teeth.—The temporary teeth require some supervision on the part of the parent, as the child is too young to do more than complain if he is in pain. Children who have suffered much from infantile diseases almost in- variably have badly-developed and unsound first teeth, but may, if well cared for, grow up strong and vigorous, and with sound permanent teeth. It is a common error to suppose that the administration of medicine has caused the early decay of the first set, or the unsightly markings sometimes present on the second set of teeth ; whereas it is the disease for which the remedies were given which has left its trace behind. The molar teeth, both of the first and second set, are most liable to decay, and a child’s mouth should be carefully examined from time to time to see if any of these teeth are discoloured or hollowed out. If they are, the child should be at once taken to a dentist, to have the diseased tooth stopped before it becomes painful, so that it may not become necessary to extract it before its full time. As the permanent molar teeth take up their position behind the temporary teeth, it is most important, for the full development of the jaw and the proper arrangement of the teeth, that the temporary teeth should not be extracted too early. At the same time, if the jaw should be small, and the teeth are taking up irregular, and perhaps too prominent positions, it may be necessary to extract even some of the permanent teeth at