7 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. to a profusion ill prepared. Even in so small a matter as cutting a slice of bread, a loaf always cut straight and even goes much farther than one hacked and hewn irregularly, or in all directions, and it is palatable to the last piece, so that there is no excuse for leaving odds and ends. Every good housewife should make a rule in this matter, to which she should, expressing her wishes in a courteous and gentle mannei, compel every member of the household and every visitor to adhere—that is, to begin at the top of the loaf, and take off the two sides equally, and in evenly-cut pieces. Nothing is irrore disagreeable than to come to table, and be served with a loaf of bread after some careless slattern has hacked it about in all directions. Leg of M^itton.—This is more frequently than any other the staple joint of the family dinner, and yet is very often badly cut. The leg of mutton comes to table as shown in Fig. I. Take the carving-fork as usual in your left hand, and plant it firmly in the joint, as shown by A Fig. 1.—LEG OF MUTTON. in Fig. I, placing it rather over to the other side of the joint, and drawing the leg over towards you on the dish about one third, which brings the position of the fork from A to B. Cut straight down across the joint at the line marked C, not qidte to the bone. Make the second cut a little on the slant, as shown in D, and take the piece out. Continue cutting from each side slantingly as the line marked D either from the thick Fig. 2.—BACK OF LEG OF MUTTON. or the knuckle end, according to the taste of the person to be helped. A very small piece of the udder fat should be given with each slice of meat to those who like it. The knuckle, if any one asks for it, is first cut off in a lump, as shown by the circular line at F, and afterwards in slices. Mutton should be cut thick, but it should not be cut to the bone ; the slices in the centre should not penetrate as far as the circular kernel of fat found there, and called the “ pope’s eye,” which it is generally considered best to leave for hashing. But some persons consider the pope’s eye a delicacy ; in that case it is sliced out in a lump with a circular cut, similar to that used to remove the knuckle, but twice as large. The pope’s eye should be cut out entire, with a handsome piece of meat round it. The back of a leg of mutton is not generally cut until cold, when it is best sliced lengthways, as shown in Fig. 2 ; the meat is still cut thick, but not quite so thick as in the cuts previously described. Cold mutton should be served with mashed potatoes and pickles, and the remains hashed, as there is much left on the bone that does not cut up well hot or cold. There is a part called the “ cramp bone ” in a leg of mutton, which may be removed by a circular cut from H to I in Fig. 2 ; it is usually relished cold. Fig. 2 shows the joint when turned three parts over, held by the fork, as previously described, and the dotted line at J indicates the direction of the first cut. Sirloin of Beef. — This is served as shown in Fig. i of the coloured plate, with tufts of horse-radish on the top. A sirloin should be cut wdth one good firm stroke from end to end of the joint, at the upper portion, making the cut very clean and even from A B to C, Fig. 3. Then disengage it from the bone by a horizontal cut exactly to the bone, B to D, using the tip of the knife. Bad carving bears the hand away to the rind of the beef, eventually, after many cuts, peeling it back to the other side, leaving a portion of the best of the meat adhering rigidly to the bone. Every slice should be clean and even, and the sirloin should cut fairly to the very end. Most persons cut the under side whilst hot, not reckoning it so good cold ; but this is a matter of taste, and so is the mode of carving it. The best way is first of all to remove the fat, E, which chops up well to make puddings, if not eaten at table. Then the under part can be cut, as already described, from end to end, F to G, or down- wards, as shown by the marks at H. Fig. 3.—SIRLOIN OF BEEF. Roast ribs of beef are cut in the same manner as the upper portion of a sirloin. Each person should be asked if he prefers his meat well done or with the gravy in it {i.e., unclerdone), and if fat is desired. The outer cuts of roast beef are of course the most cooked, the inner ones the reverse. DOMESTIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. INTRODUCTORY. Medical men have a natural prejudice against systems of domestic medicine. They know, better than anybody else can know, the difficulty of understanding the very simplest medical facts. They know how often, with all their special knowledge, acquired by years of study and close observation of disease, they are themselves puzzled in trying to explain fully the cases which they meet with.