THE DOG, THE POINTER. THE DOG.—III. PRINCIPAL VARIETIES [continuedfrom p. 62)- The Water Spatiiel is a moderate sized animal, rather stoutly built, with a close curly coat, which is generally of a brown colour. As might be supposed, he is very fond of water, and appears to be specially adapted to that element, by an unusual secretion of oil in the coat. This, however, often causes rather a strong odour when indoors, and makes him less suitable for a domestic dog. The Setter is too well known to need description, and is so named from the habit, either natural or acquired, of crouching when he comes on the scent of game. Both this habit, and that of the pointer, have been thought to be originally the natural start of surprise at coming on a fresh scent,cultivated and improved by successive training. The best setters are more or less liver-coloured, or mixed with white. The setter makes a capital pet dog, being very handsome in shape, docile, and intelligent. Like the little cocker, and in fact all the spaniels, it is also re- markably affectionate and mild in its disposition. For sportsmen who are noted pedestrians, or for shooting over wild moorland, setters are often better compa- nions than pointers ; their superior speed and dash, and harder feet, enabling them to keep on with vigour after the pointer would be exhausted. They should, however, be allowed to wet the body thoroughly every now and then, and to take a good drink at intervals, or they cannot stand the work. The little KmgCharles z.ndBlenheimSpaniels are known to every one. They certainly are little beauties, as far as looks go—and often are affec- tionate, good tempered, and amazingly clever at learning tricks ; but too often also are such spiteful little wretches, as to be a nuisance to all save their fond owners. A great deal of this, however, we suspect to be owing to bad feeding and consequent indigestion. The Retriever is scarcely a distinct variety, being bred from any dogs likely to pro- duce a suitable animal. It is often bred from the water- spaniel and terrier crossed, or a spaniel and poodle ; but the dog so well known under that name, is generally bred from the spaniel crossed with the Newfoundland. Hence it much resembles rather a small Newfoundland, but with a sharper muzzle, and a sharper look, having THE GREYHOUND. also longer legs and a more lively carriage. The hand- somest colour is black. By care some few strains have that the original breed was the hairy or rough variety still such perfection through successive generations, that a well-broken dog will, on the scent of game, stand with every member rigid, in the exact position in which it hap- pened to be at the moment. This habit has now become almost instinctive, so that a well-bred dog takes to it with little training ; and it is recorded that a brace of pointers have stood at “point” for nearly an hour and a half, without moving a muscle, whilst a sketch was made from which their portraits were painted. The pointer should have a rather large head in proportion, with a broad muzzle, the lips or Hews slightly projecting. The neck is very long, and set on at the shoulders in a very peculiar manner not found in any other breed, the shoulders being prominent, and higher than the head when the animal is in motion. The chest is well developed, something in the style of the hound ; but the tail, like the shoulder, is alto- gether peculiar. At the base it is rather thick, but lessens somewhat suddenly, and then continues with a scarcely per- ceptible taper to within two or three inches of the end, when it lessens to a very fine point. Some of the best judges affirm that this forma- tion of the tail is the proper criterion of good blood, and that its absence shows a cross ; but we are not sure this can be maintained. The pointer is intelligent, and of an extremely mild and affec- tionate disposition. When properly trained, and in good condition, it is always willing to work ; and no words of scorn are too deep and bitter for the conduct of those who can deliberately shoot the poor beast with small shot, not to kill, but to punish him for disregard to their very likely contradictory commands. No variety is so foully abused as the poor pointer, and no dog merits or needs it less, and the owner himself is mostly in fault. The Greyhound is in shape the very ideal of light and winged speed, and when well bred, is of singularly grace- ful outline. All the bulk of the animal’s body seems col- ' lected in the capacious chest, whilst the slender limbs are models of symmetry and grace. Our engraving will save the necessity for detailed description, but it is neces- sary to remark that inferior breeds of this dog are very apt to show an awkward and ugly droop at the loins, which not only spoils their speed, but also their beauty of form. The old English greyhound must have been a larger animal than the present breed, as it was used to hunt the stag, and even the wolf. Indeed, we are inclined to think been perpetuated without a recent cross, and reared to nearly the size of a Newfoundland ; but there is always more silkiness in the hair than is usual in that breed. A good retriever is a wonderfully handsome and intelli- gent dog, very playful, and with a good temper nothing can exceed. known as the Scotch greyhound, but which is nearly ■ extinct. This animal is both larger and more powerfully ' built than the English greyhound, and with very long hair. We saw recently a noble anima^of this breed, which was considered the finest specimen in England, and had taken many first prizes. It was as tall at the shoulder The Pointer is a very characteristic dog, trained to ! as the largest mastiff, was “feathered” down to the toes.