DOMESTIC SURGERY. 72 then be much more efficient and easy to carry. Whatever method is adopted there are certain rules with regard to carrying a stretcher which should be carefully attended to :—A stretcher should be carried by four men rather than by two, and should always be carried by the hands and not on the shoulders ; the drawbacks to the latter proceeding are the difficulty of finding on an emergency , four men of the same height, so that a level position may be secured ; and also that any tilting of the stretcher may throw the patient off from such a height as seriously to aggravate his injury. Be- sides, the raising and wheaten straw laid along each side of the broken limb, and bound to it by two or three handkerchiefs. In the case of a badly-sprained ankle, or a crushed foot, it will be sometimes convenient to carry a patient be- tween two bearers in a sitting position, or semi-recumbent. The first method is shown in the accompanying illus- tration, Fig. i6, the opposite hands of the bearers being interlaced under the thighs and behind the loins, and the patient putting his arms round the bearers’ necks. This method is very trying to the bearers, and could only be en- dured fora short distance. A patient is much more F'g- Fig. 17. lowering of the burden is not an easy matter, and is apt to frighten the patient when un- skilfully performed. It is not advisable that the bearers of a stretcher should “ keep step.” If only two men are carrying a stretcher, and they march “ in step,” the load they are carrying will be swayed to the right and left side alternately, to the great discomfort of the pa- tient ; but if one advances his right foot and the other his left, the burden will be kept perfectly even. The same rule applies to the case of four bearers, only here the front and rear men of opposite sides should keep step and be out of step with their companions. A temporary splint may be advantageously applied to a broken leg before the patient is moved on to the litter, as has already been advised in the case of a broken arm, and for this purpose nothing answers better than some clean easily carried in the semi-re- cumbent position, if placed in the arms of two men, arranged as shown in the illustration. Fig. 17, their opposite hands firmly interlacing in front, and their other hands being placed on each other’s shoulders, so as to support the patient be- hind ; thus the weight of the patient falls chiefly on the two arms behind him, and he can be carried for some distance without fatigue. Another way of carrying a patient is upon what is known among schoolboys as a “ sedan-chair,” each bearer grasp- ing his own fore-arm and that of his fellow about its middle,, as shown in the illustration. Fig. 19, and the patient grasping the bearers’ necks, as shown before in Fig. 16. This is a convenient way to carrjr'ladies over shallow streams, &c., in the course of country walks or at pic- nics ; and as on those occasions sprained ankles are not altogether unknown, a disabled member of a party may