22 THE TOILETTE. zffect these parts of the body, and the means which should be employed to prevent and to remove such dis- orders. We hope to afford such information as the reader may use with daily advantage—such as will often- times prevent not only discomfort, but even the visit of the doctor, conducing also in some degree to the pre- servation of a good exterior, and the satisfying therefore of that amount of personal vanity, the existence of which in the individual is in reality essential to the exhibition of true politeness. The first subject for notice, then, is THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SKIN. Structure and Functions.—k. few words may suffice to describe the skin, and they are necessary for the simple reason that it is manifestly imperative to know the construction and properties of an organ, in order that we may appreciate how best to use it, to preserve its proper functions from irregularities, and to prevent the action upoli it of injurious influences. The skin is a soft membrane composed of cuticle or scarf-skin—the part which is raised on the application of a blister—made up of small cells flattened together, and of the true skin, or derma beneath, whose structure is that of a mass of fibres arranged in network fashion, projecting at the upper part into little finger-like processes, called papillae, which we see through the cuticle on looking at any part of the skin. The true skin is furnished with blood-vessels, called capillaries, which form a horizontal layer, and send offshoots into the papillae. The nerves are distributed like the blood-vessels. Besides these elements, the whole thickness of the skin is perforated by the ducts of the little sweat glands and by the hair follicles, into each of which two little fat glands open by their proper ducts. The scarf-skin does not block up the openings of these ducts, but opens down and lines their interior. The cells of which it is composed are constantly shed as scurf, and it is the tardiness of this shedding which blocks up the pores of the skin. The little glands secrete a fatty matter, which also tends to choke the pores of the skin ; the action of soap is to soften up and remove this fatty matter. The true skin or derma is that part which is made into leather. The little projections or paplllte each contain a nerve twig, and are in fact the “feelers” or sensitive organs of the skin—the parts which constitute the organs of touch. Beneath the skin is a layer of fat, which forms an admirable “ cushion,” breaks the force of blows, and allows the movements of the skin to take place freely. The little sweat glands are tubes which open on the exterior, and run down in a spiral direction, till they end in a little coil, surrounded by blood-vessels, from whence the fluid sweat is derived. Now it is very important to be aware of the number and length of sweat-tubes. There are nearly three millions of these tubes in the body, and it is calculated that they are in all twenty-eight miles in length. It will be at once evident how important it is to keep the pores of the skin open, in order that the body may be properly purified by allowing these sweat glands and tubes to perform their functions properly. This may suffice for the structure. Then what useful purpose does the skin serve? What are its functions? In the first place it is the organ of sensibility ; secondly, it is a protection to the body j thirdly, it is a great breathing organ, really an extensive lung. The dark and impure blood circulating through its veins becomes changed by the action of the oxygen of the air, and fitted to nourish the tissues more perfectly. Hence the need of keeping the “pores of the skin open” by proper washing. The importance of the breathing function of the skin can be easily shown by experiment, for if we \-arnish over the skin the subject so varnished often d'es of what is nothing more nor less than suflbcation. Insects breathe entirely through their skin. The skin does about one-thirtieth of the work similar to that performed by the lungs, and in disease of the latter it is very likely much more active in purifying the blood. Then, fourthly, the skin carries off by the sweat much solid matter, that would be, if retained in the body, very injurious. Under ordinary circum- stances about a pound and a half of sweat is given off by a man in a day. The body is also kept at a proper tem- perature by the evaporation of the sweat; hence the importance of keeping the skin in order, especially in cleanliness, in order that nature may regulate the heat of the body. Inattention to these points gives rise to various disorders of the system, especially colds, coughs, and the like. The fluid which is sweated out of the body comes from the blood-vessels in the deeper part of the skin. A word more about the work of the little fatty glands, and this part of the subject may be left. These little structures give exit to fatty matter; that by inducing a slightly greasy state of skin, prevents too great evaporation ; it acts as a protection to the skin against irritants, and it also carries off certain fatty acids from the body. In an inactive skin these glands get choked up by the retained fatty m.atter, and w'e then have pimples, as about the face. To keep the Skin in Health.—It is necessary that it be properly nourished, that all things that will irritate it be avoided, that it be kept in a proper state of rvarmtb, and above all things that the utmost and constant clean- liness be observed. Now, in the first place, wdth regard to the influence of food on the health of the skin, it may simply be said that in proportion as plain food is regularly taken will the skin be preserved in health in common with other parts of the body. The skin of infants is very liable to get out of order w'hen the milk they take is poor; and it is very important that mothers should attend to this matter, and see that the milk they give infants is really good; or if the natural food which their babies get from them is poor, that means be taken to improve the supply. Fair mothers of fair children should be particular in this respect. If parent or child be w'eakly, then it may be advisable to give a special meal to a child—say between thi-ee or four months of age—of milk with ;a little water, perhaps thickened with bread, jelly, or a little fine baked flour. A child at seven or eight months should be taking two pints of milk a day ; and after the teeth are shown, broths and the like may be taken. By such a plan as this there is the best chance of keeping the skin of infants firm and healthy, so far as diet is concerned. More will be said in speaking of bathing. The growing girl or boy of five, seven, or eleven years of age, requires a full supply of meat, otherwise the skin is liable to be deranged, and such abominations as scald head, ringworm, and the like may probably show themselves. Such young persons as are here indicated re- quire enough food not only to repair the ordinary wear and tear of their bodies, but to provide for the actual increase in growth from day to day. The dietary of schools should be much improved. The following is a capital meal chart, we believe suggested by Soyer, for those in charge of boys and girls ;—■“ Bread and milk at eight; dinner at one : roast mutton and apple pudding; roast beef and currant pudding; boiled mutton with turnips, and rice or vermicelli pudding ; occasionally a little salt beef with suet dumplings, plain or with currants in them, or pease pudding and to these we should add bread and butter and milk and water for tea, and a fair meal of bread and cheese or butter for supper. In the case of those youngsters who Icok under-fed, a piece of meat at night and a glass of beer or milk in the day time should be added. There is one other point_in reference to young persons worth notice. It is the importance of eating a certain amount of fat -with the food. Children who have unhealthy skins are often those who seem to avoid eating fat. This is a point which parents would do well to