260 COOKERY. with a thick sausage made with the legs of a goose, and a thick slice of ham, well steeped to draw the salt out. Do not use garlic. Cover with good fresh broth, and stew the whole together, adding two onions, each stuck with a couple of cloves, a few slices of turnip and carrot, and a bunch of parsley. When cooked, take up your vegetables and meats, and keep them separate. Strain the liquor through a cullender. Take a deep dish that will stand the fire ; arrange the vegetables round its bottom; fill up the interstices with grated rye-bread; moisten with your liquor; put green peas, crushed to a puree, in the middle; on them lay yout ham, bacon, and legs of goose ; cut the sausage into slices and lay it round the edge of the dish. Put it into a slow oven until it is slightly browned. Send it up, accompanied by the broth, served separately. Tomato Soup.—Boil a few tomatoes ten minutes in a little broth, and then pass them through a cullender to strain away the skins and the seeds. Add this purde to your broth, with a few chopped onions and a bunch of sweet herbs. In default of tomatoes use tomato sauce. When the onions are tender, season with pepper and salt; a nice addition is a little chopped cabbage or a few sprigs of cauliflower, previously boiled separately. If you want it more substantial, as for a family meal in cold weather, you can throw in a few dice or neat-looking pieces of cold meat, game, or poultry, stewed quite tender, and with the bones removed. In this latter case, dice of toasted or fried bread should be sent up in or with it. Gravy Soup.—Put into a stewpan any brown gravy and dripping you have left from roast beef or veal, or both; in it brown chopped onions and a little flour. Stir in gradually any good stock you may have, seasoning with salt, pepper, and mushroom catchup. Serve, accom- panied by dice of fried or toasted bread. Cheese Soup {Meagre).—Take about half a pound of rather dry Gruy^re cheese ; if not to be had, any good, light-coloured (not red) English or other cheese, not too strong in flavour, will do ; pare off the rind, and grate the clieese. At the bottom of your soup-tureen strew a thin layer of this grated cheese ; over it lay a very few slices of crumb of stale bread, cut excessively thin ; then more grated cheese, and more thinly-sliced bread, until all the cheese is in the tureen. The whole of this should occupy one-fourth of the depth of the tureen at most, to allow for its swelling, which it does considerably. Into a stewpan (a round-bottomed one is preferable) put a good lump of butter, without being afraid of using too much ; dust in a little flour, and stir it over the fire until it browns; then throw in a good quantity of chopped onions. When they are browned, gradually stir in enough water to nearly fill your soup-tureen ; add a little burnt onion [sold either in cakes or (bottled) in balls] for brown- ing ; season with pepper and salt; let it boil, stirring all the while. Pour it, boiling, over the layers of cheese and bread in the tureen, put on the cover, let it stand two or three minutes before the fire, to soak and swell the bread and cheese ; that done, serve at once. The contents of the tureen are not to be disturbed till it is set on the table and the cover removed. FISH SOUPS. The following is a soup which has its merits, and is really better than it reads :—Take plaice, small conger eels, and whiting, in equal quantity; i.e., equal weights of each when cleaned ; wash, drain, and cut them into con- venient sized pieces—in truth, any kind of sea fish will do, only excluding those whose skin is particularly strong and rank in flavour. Put water and olive-oil into a saucepan, in the proportion of half a pound of oil to a quart of water—those who have an insuperable prejudice against oil may substitute butter ; add a clove of garlic, some chopped parsley and fennel, a bay leaf, and a few small onions. When it boils, throw in the fish, and leave it till it is cooked, which will take about a quarter of an hour. Take out the fish, to be served separately ; put slices of bread at the bottom of the tureen, and ladle your broth over it through a small-holed cullender. Shrbnp-tail and Tomato Soup.—You have ready any good broth or stock, that from beef or veal to be pre- ferred. Light at the same time a couple of fire-places in your range ; on the one set a saucepan of salted water for your shrimps ; add a bunch of sweet herbs and two slices of lemon. When it boils throw in the shrimps. On the other a dozen tomatoes (fewer will do ; if scarce, three or four will communicate their peculiar flavour), four large white onions cut in slices, a lump of butter, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, and just enough water to cook them in. When the shrimps are cooked, take them out, strain the liquor through a sieve, and set it aside. Peel the shrimps and set the tails aside. When your tomatoes and onions are cooked, press them through a cullender ; set them on the fire again, with a bit of meat jelly, or a little roast beef or roast veal gravy, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and let them thicken a little over the fire. Then stir in your broth or stock and half a tumbler of the liquor in which the shrimps were boiled; mix well together as it is coming to a boil. At the third or fourth bubbling, throw in the shrimp-tails, and the soup is made. Oyster Soup.—For each guest allow six or eight oysters, according to size. In opening them, save all the liquor, with which you put the beards, setting the oysters aside ; add rather more than one equal quantity of water to the beards and liquor, and boil them ten minutes. Strain away the beards, which you will then reject; let the liquo'r stand to settle ; pour it off from the sediment at the bottom of the vessel. Fry chopped onions to a very light yellow in fresh butter; add a little flour ; stir in gradually the liquor from the oysters; make up the required quantity of soup with veal broth or other light-coloured stock; season with pepper, salt, and mace or grated nutmeg. When it boils up, take it off the fire ; throw in your uncooked oysters. You may thicken further, if you like, by stirring one or two egg-yolks in a little of the soup, and then in- corporating it with the rest. As soon as the oysters are quite hot through (they must not boil), you may serve the soup, accompanied by fried bread. Mussel, or other Shell-Fish Soup, is made in the same way. The mussels or other shell-fish must be well washed, then put into a covered saucepan without water, and re- peatedly hustled over the fire until they open. Mussels will take longer cooking to make them come away easily from the shells than cockles. Either will yield a larger quantity of liquor than oysters. After tasting it, you will judge of the proportion you think fit to put into your soup. If you prepare your shell-fish over night, the liquor will have all the longer time to stand and get clear. Shell-fish soup may be made as above, with several kinds at once and together. It may be varied by the addition of a dust of cayenne, a large teaspoonful of essence of shrimps or anchovy, and a tablespoon ful of finely-chopped parsley, thrown in when the soup boils. Our native shell-fish may also be treated in the way the Americans dress their clams. Clam Soup {Mrs. E. F. Haykell).—Wash clean as many clams as are needed for the family ; put them in just boiling water enough to prevent their burning. The water must be boiling hard when the clams are put in the kettle. In a short time the shells will open, and the liquor in them run out. Take the clams from their shells and chop them very fine. Strain the liquor in which they were boiled through a thin cloth, and stir into it the chopped clams. Season with pepper ; add salt, if needed. Thicken the soup with butter rolled thin in flour ; let it boil fifteen minutes. Toast bread and cut it in small squares, lay it