CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 295 told Mr. Waller (the poet; that to a pint of tea they fre- quently take the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and beat them up with as much fine sugar as is sufficient for the tea, and stir all well together. The water must remain upon the tea no longer than while you can say the Miserere Psalm very leisurely; you have then only the spiritual part of the tea, the proportion of which to the water must be about a drachm to a pint.” In 1688 the Court of Directors of the East India Com- pany, writing to their agents at Bantam, in Java, ordered them to send home one hundred pounds weight of the best tea they could get; and the next year there arrived their first consignment of tea, in two canisters of one hundred and forty-three pounds and a half each. Before that date—namely, in 1671—tea had already found a doughty champion in Cornelius Boutekoe, a Leyden doctor, who vaunted tea as a panacea against all the ills that flesh is heir to. He pronounced it an infallible cause of health, and thought two hundred cups daily not too much even for a moderate drinker. The Dutch East India Company is said to have made it worth his while to uphold that opinion. There are sundry and divers “ teas ” made from sage, camomile, ground ivy, hawthorn, black- currant, sloe, and other leaves. They are ptisanes, or herb-drinks, and may be taken in obedience to medical advice or drunk by hypochondriacs, who must be always dosing themselves with something ; but they are not, and never will be tea — “the cups that cheer, but not ine- briate.” The Russians (who certainly drink the best tea in Europe, obtained overland from China) as a rule prefer their tea with something which does inebriate in it. Coffee in English middle-class houses is often badly served. It should not be boiled, nor made in quantity twice a week, to be heated up when wanted. The kernels should be sufficiently and equally roasted. As it is the roasting which develops the aroma, under-roasted coffee is so much lost, whilst over-roasted is so much driven off and ■wasted or lost in another direction. Of the two faults, the former is the worse. Unroasted coffee is useless. Most of us remember the cruel cheat of sending unroasted coffee to the Crimea, the purveyors of which might as well have sent horse-beans to our besieging army. Indeed, roasted beans or wheat would have been far better. Circumstances very often compel the buying of coffee ready ground, almost always ready roasted ; but the more quickly coffee is used after both roasting and grinding the better. It is only a healthy amusement to give a coffee-mill a few turns. Coffee is easily roasted at home (it should be done in the open air) in an iron cylinder or barrel of small diameter, standing on two feet, over a coke and cinder or, better, a charcoal fire, turned by a handle like that of a grindstone. If you make the coffee in a biggin, put into the filter a good dessert-spoonful for every person, and first of all only pour on a few spoonfuls of boiling water sufficient to soak it, and after letting it stand in a warm place for a quarter of an hour, then pour on the rest of the boiling water, and let it percolate. The time to take coffee is either in the morning (with milk mixed in due proportion) or after lunch or an early dinner. In the evening it is to be avoided, unless you intend, like Lady Macbeth, to “ murder sleep for which you are sure to b® punished next morning. THE HORS E.—I. INTRODUCTION. Of all animals, excepting those which serve for man’s sustenance, none equal the horse in importance. He is at once a valuable servant and a trusty companion, and he is never more a companion than when he is our servant. It is the business of our superior intelligence, therefore, to make him a useful servant, and to keep him so. We desire, in these articles, to give horse-owners the greatest amount of practical knowledge of the horse, with all things pertaining to his stabling, food, equipment, and management, conveyed in the most concise and intelli- gible language. Where technicalities occur, we shall explain them, but we shall endeavour to steer clear of stable expressions and horse-dealers’ slang, so far as the peculiarities of our subject will allow. The first object in a treatise of this sort should be to give that information of which the majority stand most in need. For this purpose, when we come to consider the horse himself, as a beast of burden or of draught, we shall begin with the requirements of those who are able to keep one horse for general purposes of saddle and harness. Keeping distinct their uses, our first practical article will be written on the hack and harness horse of ordinary price and of extraordinary utility ; for it is somewhat remarkable that in the horse, as in some other animals we know, the useful and the ornamental are frequently found in an inverse ratio to one another. The hunter serves a more limited class, as do all horses used purely for pleasure, or kept, as many are, for show; while the I'ace-horse—unhappily being now little more than a medium for gambling—will only be considered in his capacity as the thorough-bred sire for the improvement of his race. The agricultural or cart-horse, being of a dis- tinct breed, and belonging to the most useful and profit- able class, will receive very early attention. OF THE DIFFERENT BREEDS OF HORSES. But before going to these divisions of our subject, it becomes those who wish to have a proper knowledge of the horse to consider it from a point of view which will enable them to become gradually acquainted with his perfect symmetry of form, and adaptation for his work ; and with his higher qualities—sagacity, docility, and courage. For this purpose we must regard the principal breeds from which the ordinary horse of this country has, by various crossings, been derived. It is not possible to determine accurately which breed was the original stock, but for our purpose of investigation, we m.ay classify the prominent divisions under three heads :—the Eastern, the Western, and the European breeds. The question is far too deep and too full to be satisfied by the hasty inquiry which we can afford to give it. It seems at first impossible to regard the sleek, blood- like Arab as being derived from the same stock as the rough, under-sized Shetland, the London dray-horse, and the lady’s hack; and yet it is more difficult to believe that they are not. Nature is pliant, and accommodates herself to circumstances of climate and of food ; and in the case of the Arab and the Shetland she has acted the part she acts, in changing “ wool to fur, and hair to down.” OF EASTERN BREEDS. The principal of these is the Arabian, of which there are at least six varieties, diflferent in value and in appearance. The best of these is the “ Kochlaini,” said by the Arabs to be descended from the horse of the prophet Mahomet. This is a breed almost unpurchasable, from the dislike of the Arabs to part with it; we believe there is a law for- bidding the exportation of the mare. Some have said that from the money value of the horse, he seldom finds his way to this country ; but there are plenty of Englishmen to whom price for a horse they want is no object whatever. The peculiarities of the Arab of high class, one of which we once possessed, are a head very light, wide in the fore- head, small in the jaw, nostrils expanded, and very red and transparent when in motion ; neck short, and full