56 HINTS ON CARVING. Racist Fowls are by no means an uncommon dish, and one is often requested to carve a fowl, who, from want of practice, is obliged to blush and refuse. As sideboard carving is not yet sufficiently general to render the chal- lenge impossible, we recommend every one of our readers to master so really simple a thing ; for nothing makes a person look more stupid than a bashful refusal to perform such a little service for host or hostess upon occasion. It looks as though one would eat his dinner at another’s expense, but would not even put out a hand to assist. Poultry-carvers are placed to divide fowls ; the poultry knife is short and thick, and pointed and sharp at the top. The great art in dividing all kinds of birds is to hit the joint at once, else there is an awkward fumb- ling about, cut after cut made, and a stupid delay. To take off the leg, which should be the first joint centre of it, hold it firmly, place the fork under the portion to the left of the knife, and raise it from the dish at right angles, till the bone snaps ; then cut right through, and help the two halves separately. The wings are deemed the most choice portions of the fowl, and are usually served first. In Fig. 5 a little round is noticeable just in the bend of the wing, marked X. This is the gizzard in the one wing, and the liver in the other. The liver wing is generally most esteemed. When carving a fowl, it is usual to ask which is preferred, the liver or the gizzard wing. Salmon.—Fig. 3 in the coloured plate represents a slice of salmon when brought to table. Salmon should be served on a napkin, and it is often garnished with sprigs of fennel or slices of lemon. A silver or plated slice or knife, Fig. 6, is used for this, as for removed, thrust the fork into the breast at A, in Fig. 4. Take one careful glance at your bird before you touch it with the knife ; in this glance ascertain where the joint is likely to be rela- tive to the width of the leg and the width of the body. Strike the knife to the joint; feel for the centre of it, where the joint is united; send in the tip of the knife upright; press it down straight; and then, with the weight of the hand, turn the knife over, as shown in Fig. 4. Instantly the joint cracks, and is severed. N ow cut it off from the side, taking a nice slice of meat with it, according to the line indicated from A to c, in Fig. 5. Having re- moved one of the legs, take off the wing on the same side in a similar manner. A good-sized piece of meat is taken off from the side of the breast with the wing, and is almost of triangular shape; it is shown by the dotted line from G to F, and from F to H. Remove the leg and wing from the other side, and then take the ‘-merry-thought” off the breast. This is done by inserting the knife under the point of the breast-bone at I, in Fig. 5, and sweeping it round at each side by a circ.ilar cut frotn i, past L to i\[. Afterwards separate the remainder of the breast from the back by cutting it right through the small rib bones at the straight line, from end to end of the fowl, marked J K in Fig. 5. This last piece of the breast is generally helped entire. Now only the back remains. Turn it over on the dish with flic outside upward ; plant the knife upright in the Fig- 7. other kinds of fish, because steel spoils the flavour of fish. A knife needs to be broad to divide the flakes without breaking them. A fish-knife has a sharp curved point to disengage the fish from the bones, and is perforated with holes to allow any water retained about the fish to run off. A fork is not used in helping fish. With the blade of the fish-knife, A to B, in Fig. 6, cut through the salmon from end to end, close to the backbone, at the line marked A in Fig. 7. If the fish is large, it will be necessary to make one or more cuts parallel with A. These are again divided across into square pieces, as shown at B. This part of the salmon, which is the prime, is called the “ thick.” With each slice of the thick, cut also one of the “thin,” or belly, which is cut down in smaller slices, as shown from E to F in the illustration. When the upper portion is consumed, remove the centre bone with the fish-slice to the side of the dish. Cut the remainder as before, taking care not to damage the napkin on which it is laid. Each piece of fish is served from the dish to the plate on the flat of the silver slice. The centre of the salmon towards the shoulders, and the centre cuts are reckoned the best. In our next article on this subject we shaH-give instructions for carving the other dishes figured in our coloured illus- tration, as well as some more plain joints of butchers’ meat