CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. US POULTRY.—V. THE REARING AND FATTENING OF CHICKENS. For nearly twenty-four hours after hatching, chickens require no food at all; and though we do not think it best to leave them quite so long as this without it, we should let them remain for at least twelve hours un- disturbed. We say undisturbed, because it is a very common practice to take those first hatched away from the hen, and put them in a basket by the fire till the whole brood is out. When the eggs Fig, jq. have varied much in age, this course must be adopted; for some chickens will be perhaps a whole day or more behind the others, and the hen, if she felt the little things moving beneath her, would not stay long enough to hatch the rest. But we have explained in the last chapter that this should not be, and that if the eggs are all fresh, the chicks will all appear within a few hours of each other. In that case they are much better left 'with their viother: the heat of her body appears to strengthen and nourish them in a far better manner than any other warmth, and they are happy and contented, instead of moving restlessly about as they always do whilst away from her. Our own plan is to set the eggs in the evening, when the chicks will break the shell in the evening also, or perhaps the afternoon. Then at night let the state of the brood be once only examined, all egg-shells removed from the nest, and the hen, if she be tame enough to receive it, given food and water. Let her afterwards be so shut in that she cannot leave her nest, and all may be left safely till the morning. By that time the chicks will be strong and lively, quite ready for their first meal; and unless some of the eggs are known to be very stale, any not hatched then are little likely to hatch at all. If this be so, the chicks may be removed and put in flannel by the fire, and another day patiently waited, to see if any more will appear. We should not do so, however, if a fair number had hatched well; for they never thrive so well away from the hen, and it is scarcely worth while to injure the healthy portion of the brood for the sake of one or two which very probably may not live after all. The first meal should be given on the nest, and the best 10—N.S. Fig. 9. Fig. II. material for it is an equal mi.xture of hard-boiled yolk of egg and stale bread-crumbs, the latter slightly moistened with milk. Let the hen be allowed to partake-of this also—she needs it; and then give her besides as much barley as she will eat, and offer her water, which she will drink greedily. To satisfy the hen at first saves much restlessness and trouble with her after- wards. There is a stupid practice adopted by many, of removing the little horny scale which appears on all chickens’ beaks, with the idea of enabling them to peck better, and then put food of pepper - corns down their throats, and dip their bills in water to make them drink. It is a mistake to say that if this does no good it can do no harm: the little beaks are very soft and tender, and are often injured by such barbarous treatment. Leave them alotie. If they do not eat or drink (and chickens seldom drink the first day), it only shows they do not wish it ; for to fill an empty stomach is the first and universal instinct of all living things. The brood having been fed, the next step will depend upon circumstances. If, as we re- commend, the chickens were hatched the night before, or be well upon their legs, and the weather be fine and waim, they may be at once moved out, and the hen cooped where her little ones can get the sun. If it be winter, or settled wet weather or cold, the hen must, if possible, be kept on her nest this day also, and when removed be cooped in a dry shed or outhouse. The best arrangement, where there is convenience for it, is that shown in Fig. 9. A shed, six feet square, is reared against the wall, with a southern exposure, and the coop placed under it. This coop is best made on a plan very com- mon in some parts of France, and consists of two compartments, separated by a parti- tion of bars ; one com- partment being closed in front, the other fronted with bars like the partition. Each set of bars should have a sliding one to serve as a door, and the whole coop should be tight and sound. It is best to have no bottom, but to put it on loose dry earth or ashes, an inch or two deep. Each half of the coop must be about two feet six inches square, and may or may not be lighted from the top by a small pane of glass. The advantage of such a coop and shed is, that except in