THE DOG. lob v/ill soon bring him to order. The same experiment may be employed to teach an obstinate dog that he must not chase rabbits, hares, or birds. We may here remark that, unless towards the latter part of their training the dogs are allowed to find plenty of their proper game, it will be very difficult to prevent them hunting and pointing small birds, for a good dog mus/ hunt something ; but if taken among game they soon learn the difference. A pointer thoroughly obedient in all the foregoing may be considered a well-trained dog, and any other special points of training for sport it will be found comparatively easy to teach him. He must, however, be taught, as far as possible, to receive his orders by motions of the hand, in order that he may avoid any noise which might scare the game ; and he must be made to keep sufficiently near the sportsman for the birds he springs to rise within shot. If it is desired to use the pointer as a retriever also, the pup should be taught to “seek'’ while in the house by throwing bits of bread or meat. After awhile a small carcase may be constructed out of a rabbit or hare- skin, stuffing it with cotton-wool and briars mixed. This will soon teach him to seize tenderly, with- out breaking the plumage. Then, when they are being trained in ac- tual pursuit of game, the only thing to ob- serve will be that the dogs do not run in and seize the game until or- dered to dead" Point- ers which re- trieve seldom do so well when in com- pany, as they tend to spoil the other dogs which have not been so trained; but when alone will often perform in both capacities to perfection. The Setter is trained in very much the same manner as the pointer, the principal difference being that he “ sets,” or crouches, instead of “ pointing,” on finding his game. In endurance the setter will surpass the pointer, having harder feet and more power of limb. A setter has also more fire and dash, which often enables a quick shot to bag more birds within a given time, and to get over more ground; but these very qualities tend to make him a less perfectly obedient animal, his impulsive disposition seek- ing to break out, as it were, on every occasion. Some \ sportsmen, indeed, affirm that a setter can never be thoroughly broken ; but this is contradicted by many dogs of this breed, whose behaviour in the field is quite unex- ceptionable. It is, howeVer, essential, even more than in the case of pointers, that their training should commence when yet little pups, and that they be kept from the first thoroughly under control, so far as they have been taught; but if this be attended to they will usually turn out most useful assistants, whilst to our fancy they are about the handsomest of all the dog family. The Retriever almost invariably contains a cross of the Newfoundland, whatever the other parentage may be, and his training is comparatively a very simple matter, though it should be commenced, like that of all other dogs, when very young. As with other sporting dogs, he must first be taught to pay implicit obedience in the way of coming to heel, and dropping every time the piece is fired—in fact, never to leave his master when “ on business,” unless ordered to do so. He should also be taught, from the very milk, to “seek” articles thrown about,and to carry tenderly, by carcases stuffed with briars, as already described. Such a dog is more than half trained. Very often, retrievers are not sufficiently taught to “ down charge,” and the conse- quence is, that they break away after the shot, whether it be a hit or miss, frighten the game, and spoil the chance of a great many other shots by their impetuosity. Having, therefore, trained the retriever to “ down charge,” and, in fact, to remain perfectly quiet in the field, except ordered to “ seek,” little remains, except the teaching him to bring the game to your very hand, and to deliver it in no other way. Nothing can be more annoying than to see your dog find the game and bring it, perhaps, within a dozen yards, and then drop it in some heavy crop, such as a thick field of turnips, which very effectually secures you from ever finding it also. The retriever must likewise be taught to do his work with- out loss of time, by occasion- ally giving him food as a re- ward, but never until he has carried the game by your side a little while, and you have taken it from his mouth your own hand. This is highly neces- sary, or he will get the habit of dropping the game to eat the food, of which we have already spo- ken. In train- ing a retriever for water-fowl shooting, it is best to begin in sum- mer, in order that the dog may not have to face the cold water all at once ; and it is necessary to check him if he ever attempts to catch rats or other vermin, as he will often waste his time in hunting on his own account. Spaniels are much used for shooting in cover, and are seldom so obedient as field dogs, being necessarily often out of sight. To be of much use, they must be early accustomed to the game they are intended for, otherwise they will gad about after anything alive, or open on a stale scent, either of which makes a dog of little value. They may be easily taught to hunt in any direction, ac- cording to a wave of the hand, and to drop on the report of the piece; but it is difficult to get them to thoroughly “down charge;” they will generally rush to seize the game, if it falls. If the dog can be taught to “ down charge,” like a setter, it is better; but, if he is too im- petuous for this, the sportsman may be well content with making him retrieve properly, by bringing it tenderly to the hand. Few spaniels will do more. Most spaniels open on the scent, and pretty loudly too ; but some breeds are mute on certain scents, and the well-known Clumber spaniel is perfectly so. In training all sporting dogs, a command of temper is THE SCOTCH COLLIE.