CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 28s FURNITURE.—VI. BEDROOM FURNITURE {continuedfrom p. 2^6). Mattresses.—In a previous chapter a brief allusion is made to this necessary article of bedding. Formerly, and even now in some countries when the bedstead has a good sacking instead of laths or iron, a mattress was not deemed necessary, but when this was dispensed with, the feather bed was one of fifty pounds of good goose feathers, or mixed with other poultry feathers. Such a couch needed no mattress, but now it is considered almost indispensable to the comfort of the sleeper, and is by many persons preferred to a bed. Of mattresses there are many kinds, f and made of various materials. Among the first in esti- j mation, the spring mattress, shown below, holds its place. I This is formed of a succession of coils of stout copper '! wire, either galvanised or otherwise, each coil somewhat j| resembling an hour-glass. These are often set in a solid box-like frame; but when completely covered it is diffi- i: cult to replace a weak spring or repair any damaged part. A newer and much better form is where the framework i consists of stout laths, resembling those of an ordinary ■i wooden bedstead, but much thicker, and having one or two transverse bars running from head to foot, accord- : ing as the width needs them. The springs are fastened ii to the laths, or to another series of laths, and the whole ■I is then covered with ijj the ordinary checked jj covering. The advan- I tage of this make is, ri that should a spring [| become weak, it can i be seen at once where I the mischief lies, and I it can be repaired most ‘f readily. A mattress ^ of three feet wide and six feet in length is I purchasable for 2'/s., and one five feet wide for 50s. A mattress or bed on the top of this is necessary for the protection of the springs beneath. The cheapest mattresses are the straw ones. They may be purchased from 12s. to 25s., according to quality; they are very thick and hard, and of course require a hair -'I mattress or a feather bed on the top of them to make |ll them comfortable. In the country they are sometimes made at home, and filled with clean fresh straw, the f ticking being sewn up like a bag, the size of the bed. In Italy the dried leaves of the Indian corn, or maize, are universally used for this purpose ; and also the leaves of I the chestnut and beech. Paper cut in fine pieces is used for both pillows and mattresses, and many charitable people make them for the poor. In cutting out a mat- tress, the rule is to allow an extra inch to every foot, to give room for the stuffing in both length and width. The sides are always cut the selvage way of the ticking. For putting on the top of spring mattresses, nothing exceeds the comfort of six blankets quilted as a mattress I would be, and which can be readily taken apart, washed, . and put together again ; neither need this substitute be expensive, because six of the kind known as “ Aldershot ” blankets can be placed together and be covered with a cotton ticking and quilted ; the expense of such a mat- tress would not exceed 23s. Whatever mattresses are needed, those of cotton flock should not be chosen, on account of their tendency to become lumpy. Quilts and Counterpanes.—The warmest, lightest, best, and consequently most expensive bed covering is an eider- down quilt, made of the best down put into a silken cover- ing. One for a full-sized bedstead would cost 5s. ; but one of the same size made of coloured goose down, termed “ Arctic down,” and in a coloured cotton covering. would not be more than 35s. A number of cotton counter- panes piled one on the other would fatigue the sleeper, and not impart a tithe of the warmth of down or sheep’s wool. It is a mistake to imagine that a pile of clothes will impart heat. Warmth is produced in the human body, and the object should be to retain that heat, by adopting such clothes as will, with a due regard to ventilation, prevent much of it from escaping. Sheep’s wool, either as blankets, flannel, or woollen damask, will do this ; also feathers, down, and furs. All textures of wool and silk are non-conductors of heat—that is, they do not allow the heat of the body to escape, consequently beds furnished with three blankets, two upper and one under, and a down quilt, or with an extra blanket instead of a quilt, will be found to be both comfortable and healthy. The next counterpane to notice is the Massillian quilt, sometimes termed Marseilles and Marcella. These, on the surface, are made in imitation of the old-fashioned quilting of old blankets between chintz and while linen, which were formerly so prized. These Massillian quilts are comfortable, light, and elegant, and are purchasable at prices varying from 17s. to 40s. for a full-sized bed- stead. Very pretty quilts have recently come into fashion, with woven stripes of red, blue, or pink, on a white ground. The revival of needlework has also introduced bed-covers of crash, embroidered with coloured flowers in crewels, to match 'the embroidered cur- tains and bed-hang- ings. Chintz bed-covers, to match the furniture of the bedroom, are also a novelty, and in London they possess one great advantage—that of keeping clean much longer than white counterpanes. The bright-coloured Austrian blankets are also to be commended, many people using them for travelling rugs, as well as for bedding. Servants’ coloured cotton quilts, if of tolerable quality, are both soft and warm. They are not so finely woven as others purchased at a higher cost, and the material being less dressed in the manufacture, is more fluffy and warmer. Supposing that economy is strictly necessary, and that a quilt, even of the very poorest description, cannot by any means be purchased, warmth in bed may be obtained by lining a sheet or other calico article, no matter how old, with brown paper, first well crumpled and rubbed to render it soft. The warmth this produces is almost incredible, because it does not allow the heat of the body to escape. A warm and useful quilt can be made by utilising the down off" poultry or goose feathers, which may be pur- chased for from is. to is. 4d. per pound. The process of home-manufacture of these cheap and useful quilts may be described as follows :— First strip off all the down from the feathers ; then take some strips of glazed calico, coloured or white, each strip two yards long and nine inches wide ; sew the sides of each strip together to form a long tube ; sew up one end securely ; into each tube put three ounces of feather strip- pings, but gradually—that is, sew a quarter of a yard of the tubing, then put in a few strippings, and pin them in while proceeding to sew another portion. Thus, when the sewing of a tube is completed, the filling will be also. These tubings are now to be sewn together, as many as