274 THE TOILETTE. poured on the surface of the water. The proper way to do this is to push the lower part up as high as it will go, and then fill it up to the top, for if filled when the chandelier is down (a practice, we know, often adopted) the pushing up will cause an overflow, because of the displacement of the water by the middle tube. We have purposely exaggerated the dimensions of the tubes for greater distinctness. Fig. 77 shows the joint of the tele- scope pendant; A is the down-pipe, B the telescope-tube, which slides through a brass gland C, packed either with greased tow, or wflth cork or leather. If the joint is too loose, screw up D, and so tighten the packing of the gland. This joint is on exactly the same principle as the stuffing-box of the piston-rod of a steam-engine. Telescope pendants often swing by a joint at the ceiling, so that they can be hooked up to the roof, out of the way. A word here on the subject of ventilation will not be out of place. To burn gas constantly in any living-room without providing for the escape of the effluvia, is to ensure the breathing of a most hurtful and pernicious atmosphere, and such a practice cannot be too strongly condemned. A grating should be concealed in the central flower, and a pipe, not less than two inches in bore, carried from it to an air-brick in the wall, or into a chimney. This pipe will convey away not only the air destroyed by the gas, but a current will be created which will carry off all the foul air produced by the breathing of the inmates of the room. The sun-lights fixed in the roofs of public buildings are always provided with large tubes leading through the roof, and they form an extremely important and efficient means of ventilation. We come now to the burners. Fig. 78 is the com- monest form, the fish-tail burner. It consists of a hollow cylinder or barrel screwed to fit the nozzle of the pipe. The top of this barrel is closed over, but has two small holes pointing diagonally across each other in such a manner that the two streams of gas impinge upon each other, and spread out in the form of a fish’s tail, whence the name. Where the pressure of the gas is high it is a good thing to unscrew the burner and put a little loose cotton wool inside to reduce it, as gas at a low pressure burns much more economically. Fish-tail burners become corroded in time, and require pricking out with a ^stout pin. Fig. 79 is the flame of a batswing burner, which is similar to the last, but instead of a flat top pierced by two holes, it is shaped into a dome, which has a thin slit cut through the middle of it. The gas issues through this slit and forms a wide-spreading flame as shown. It takes its name from its resemblance to the outstretched wing of a bat. The packing recommended for the fish-tail will sometimes be found good for this form, but as it requires the passage of a larger quantity of gas, the wool must be put in more loosely. Fig. 80 is a section of a patent argand burner, fitted with self-acting governor. A is the usual nose-piece by which the burner is screwed on. B is the governor, by which the amount of gas is self-regulated, and all direct pressure taken off", before it reaches the annulus or ring. From the governor-chamber the gas is conducted by the tubes C D to the annulus or ring E, where it is burnt, the air being supplied thi'ough the centre opening F and the air-cone G. H is simply one of the chimney-springs, and J one of the studs to support the globe or shade. It has been found very beneficial to pass the stream of gas about to be consumed through liquids containing carbon in large quantities, such as naphtha or petroleum, some of the particles thereby being absorbed by the gas, and retained a short time, and there can be no doubt that the brilliancy and purity of the light is consequently con- siderably increased, but, the economy depending in a great measure upon a chemical understanding of the process, and some trouble being necessary in its mani- pulation, it is doubtful whether small consumers would find it worth while to adopt it. We should most decidedly advocate, however, the more general adoption of regu- lators, or, as they are more often called, “ governors,’' by which an even and unalterable pressure, which can be adjusted, is steadily maintained, no matter how few or how many burners are in use at the moment. By this means all roaring and waste, when only a few burners are lighted, are entirely prevented ; and we have been assured by those who have given them an impartial trial that the saving in gas has been enough to pay for their cost in a few months. Some governors are mercurial; these answer well, but the mercury is rather liable to form an amalgam with the lead pipes, and thus cause dangerous leaks. PRECAUTIONS AGAINST COLDS. If a person getting wet through were to try the expe- riment of rolling a blanket round himself, or of putting on an india-rubber or any other entirely waterpi'oof cover- ing, in a quarter of an hour he would find himself quite warm. The wet-sheet process of the water cure is but an exemplification of this fact. When a cold attacks any one, it is but that the heat is carried too quickly away from the body, which becomes chilled by the rush of cold air from the outside; the moment a shivering fit is felt, if the victim would undress and lie down between blankets—the newer the better—and then take a few drops of spirits of camphor on moist sugar, heat would be almost instantly generated in the system, and be prevented by the blankets from escaping; but if the same process had been adopted with linen or cotton fabrics, the result would have been different. THE TOILETTE.—VIII. . THE HAIR AND ITS MANAGEMENT {continued fromp. 242). We now come to the consideration of the question of how best to keep hair in a good and healthy condition. There are one of two special considerations that must be attended to, to this end. In the first place it is as necessary to observe cleanliness in regard to the hair as much as in the case of the skin. The scalp itself should be kept properly freed from all dust, scaliness, discoloration from dirt, and so on. But we shall remark on this point specially under the head of washing. Secondly, in making the toilette (and this applies with special force to the case of ladies) care should be taken to arrange the hair in the direction in which it naturally grows. It is very much the fashion now-a-days to turn and twist the hair about in the most diverse ways. The front hair will be turned backward and upward over the scalp, and the hair at the back of the head brought upwards on the stretch on to the scalp at the top of the head, and so on. Now if the hair is at all put upon the stretch, there is a strain upon the roots which acts very injuriously upon the vigorous growth of the hair, and if there be any tendency to loss of hair it will be all the more likely to develop itself. As far as possible therefore, those who wish to do the utmost to prevent damage to their hair must avoid any prevalent fashion of putting it upon the stretch in a direction contrary to that which it naturally assumes. Thirdly, it is very nccessary/that no tight bands be permitted to press upon the scalp, or to rub constantly over the hair, for these not unfrequcntly lead to baldness of the part pressed. Fourthly, only the most ordinary and simple applications should be used to the hair and scalp. In the first place stimulating washes and the like should not be used to healthy heads, but to those which are diseased or defective in their power of forming hair. Then pomades and the like should be fresh and free from