CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 123 A WORD OR TWO ABOUT CAMEOS. The term cavieo is popularly applied to precious stones and shells, the surfaces of which are covered with raised figures, mostly of a different colour from the ground, and mounted as brooches, bracelets, pins, ear-rings, finger-rings, and other personal ornaments. What are called stone cameos are most valuable and durable ; but the actual cost varies greatly, owing to differences of material and workmanship. Very often fraud is practised by unprincipled artists, who cut out the figures separately and attach them by cement to the flat surface of stones prepared for them. Many cheap imitations of cameos are formed in moulds and fastened to glass or some other common material. A splendid Roman cameo for a brooch may cost fifteen or twenty pounds, while one of the same size and inferior work in shell will cost but a few shillings. We gather the following from an interesting essay on this subject :— “ There are antiques, to produce which the chemical skill of the artist had to be exercised. A species of enamel was made, and with this cornelians of the required grain and density were covered by the application of fluxes and intense heat, thus forming, artificially, the much-desired layer of clear hard substance, out of which to cut the wished-for design. Many works which rank amongst the stone or true cameos, although of comparatively simple design, moderate size, and not antique specialities, are worth ^50 and upwards; whilst shell ca7tieos, well executed, and representing precisely the same subjects, may be bought for los. or The reason for this immense difference in value lies, first, in the intrinsic worth of the material operated on; next, in the great facilities afforded to the artist, who works on the soft and yielding shell with instruments and appliances of ordinary power; and lastly, in the almost indestructible qualities of the stone cameos when finished.” Cameos in onyx, agate, cornelian, and some others are particularly beautiful whep. the colours of the layers of the stone or veins are sUongly contrasted. The oriental onyx is black and white ; the cornelian, brown and white ; the agates vary. Shell cameos are chiefly of two sorts, some having a reddish ground, others a brownish ground, both with white or whitish figures. Those with a vivid reddish- tinted ground and pure white figures are best. There are antique cameos which are very expensive. Many modern pieces with classical subjects are also costly, though, when of inferior materials and finish, they are often cheap. The settings, of course, are of all kinds, and should correspond in material and value with the cameos they display. THE TOILETTE.—V. MANAGEMENT OF THE SKIN {continuedfrom Discharging Eruptions.—These are generally matters that cannot be trifled with, and it may possibly lead to more harm than good if we do more than indicate what may be done for the simpler cases, or for those instances m which it is inconvenient or impossible to obtain medical advice at the moment. In all cases, the parts attacked about the trunk of the body should be kept at ’■^st and very cleanly, but without any rough usage. If the diseased part is very red and tender, it may be as well to apply a little water dressing; or if this do not agree, as is the case in some instances, the surface may be covered over with a little whiting paste ; this may be rernoved by warm water fomentation each day or so. A scabbed eruptions occur about the heads of children, and constitute scald-head; and mothers are by tar too fond of putting a host of messes recommended mem as cures, upon the discharging surface, or the scabs wnich form; the hair then becomes matted together with the scabs, and the whole presents a most uncom- fortable appearance. The great thing in these cases is to keep the head perfectly free from scabs by judicious poulticing (bread and water), and then to apply to the surface, at least at the outset, a little oxide of zinc oint- ment, which can be got from any chemist. The surface should be cleansed every day with sponging or poulticing, but only just sufficient to loosen the scabs and not to sodden the scalp. These cases of free discharge about the head (and the remarks just made may apply to those about the face) are generally contingent upon the exist- ence of distinct conditions of ill-health or mal-nutrition, that require cod liver-oil and steel wine, with alteratives ; and for that reason it is best at once to seek medical advice, if the simple plans of treatment just mentioned do not answer. Chilblains.—These are the result of the action of cold upon the skin of weakly individuals ; and they occur on the parts of the body most distant from the centres of life, so to speak—viz., the nervous centre and the heart. The cold benumbs the foot or hand, heel or ear, or whatever part may be attacked, arrests its circulation and disorders its sensibility. Then, when the chilled part is brought near the fire, or becomes warm, inflammation sets in with troublesome sensations. Every one knows, by common report, if not by experience, what chilblains are, how they itch, and thereby torment the sufferer, and how they crop up in fresh places from time to time, in those who suffer from them, in the winter-time. It is a very bad plan to bring the feet or hands too near the fire after being out in the cold, as the heat, acting after the chill, induces chilblains. In some cases the inflam- mation is .severe, and there is effusion beneath the skin, which gives way, so that what is called a “broken” chilblain is produced. Now the treatment of chilblains involves the employment of means for their prevention, in the first place ; these consist in the use of garments to keep the feet and hands protected from the cold— such as woollen socks, proper exercise, and, if there is a threatening of miscMef, friction, with some slight stimu- lant, such as camphor liniment. If the subject is weak, tonics must be given. When chilblains have formed, however, it is necessary to relieve the intolerable itching by sedatives applied locally, and then to use stimulating friction. When they are not broken, any of the following recipes may be employed :— No. I. Soap liniment ... ... ... 2 ounces. Oil of Cajeput ... ... 2 drachms. Tincture of belladonna ... 2 drachms. No. 2. Two yolks and whites of egg. Spirits of turpentine ... ... 2 ounces.- Distilled vinegar ... ... 2 ounces. To be well shaken together; and if there be very much itching add half an ounce of laudanum. No. 3. Strong ammonia solution ... i an ounce. Camphor liniment ... 2 ounces. Laudanum ... I ounce. No. 4. Soap liniment ... ... 2 ounces. Tincture of belladonna ... 2 drachms. Friar’s balsam ... ... I drachm. Tincture of aconite ... 2 drachms. Camphor ... 10 grains. This is useful in allaying itching. No. 5.—Dr. Balfour, of the Royal Military Asylum at Chelsea, uses with success amongst the boys there equal parts of compound tincture of iodine and strong solution of ammonia; painting it in night and morning gently with a brush.