COOKERY. 342 naturalised in this country at the same time with hops and turkeys ; respecting the truth of which we entertain strong doubts. Certainly, live pike may have been brought to England and turned out in some simple- minded gentleman’s waters, just as coals may have been carried to Newcastle; but that would be no proof that they did not exist here before. It seems scarcely pos- sible that a fish so widely distributed throughout Great Britain, found in isolated mountain-lakes in Wales and Scotland, in Highland rivers with no other communica- tion than their outlet—the sea (and salt water is fatal to the pike)—can be anything else but a native species. Moreover, in 1586, Camden wrote — “ Horsea pike, None hke.” Norfolk must very speedily have attained the reputation for pike in which it is still pre-eminent. The best-sized pike for the table ranges from three to eight pounds. Heavier fish, though handsome on the board, are apt to prove coarse when tested by the eating. Small pike (jack), from one to two pounds, are delicate, and ex- cellent fried whole. For boiling nothing can be better than a six-pound fish. For a large party, two such fish will give greater satisfaction to the palate than one of twelve pounds. Scale your pike, remove the eyes, but leave the fins for show. Empty it; save the liver, if good, together with the roe or milt. Boil these in salt and water a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, ac- cording to their size, and set them aside. Then make SUiffing for Pike.—Pdt&x grating enough bread-crumb to fill your pike’s belly two-thirds full, make up the other third with chopped veal or beef-suet, the liver and roe or milt broken up, the rind of half a lemon minced fine, a little fine chopped parsley, fennel, and chervil, with a fair sprinkling of pepper and salt; during the mushroom season chopped mushrooms or buttons may be added; make this into a stiff paste, with two or three raw eggs broken into it. The belly of your pike being weU wiped out, stuff it with this, and sew up the opening with needle and thread. Then tie the head and tail together, passing the tail between the jaws, so as to make an “eternity” fish. Then drop the pike into a large kettle of Boiling water, with a small handful of salt in it. A six-pound fish will take about half an hour’s boiling, but it is illusory to fix the precise number of minutes. A thick female fish, stuffed, will evidently take longer cooking than a slim male fish, unstuffed. If you have any stuffing left, you may make it into cakes, brown them in a Dutch oven, and use as garnishing. Serve your boiled pike on a napkin, garnished with parsley, and accompanied by anchovy sauce, /.<?., melted butter with which two or three teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy have been incorporated in a saucepan over the fire. Pike, Baked Whole.—For this, take a fish of not less than four, nor more than eight pounds’ weight. Stuff and truss it as before, with a more liberal allowance of suet in the stuffing. Put it into a circular dish, not too deep, that wiU stand the oven. Pour over it enough flour and water, or flour and broth, to make plenty of gravy. You may add thereto a glass of wine, white or red. Lay dabs of butter along the back of your fish, and set it into the oven, where you must be able to baste it coti- tinually from the moment the butter begins to melt. If you cannot do this, better give up baking your pike. The time will depend on the briskness of the oven. When done, serve the pike on a hot dish. Strain the gravy through a small cullender into a saucepan, stir in a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, or two table- spoonfuls of catchup, or a glass of red wine, let boil an instant, and send up in a sauceboat. Large pike, of twelve pounds and upwards, are best divided into, say, four portions; the head and shoulders, two middle pieces. and the tail. The first and the last may be boiled, and served accompanied by anchovy sauce, and garnished with forcemeat baked into cakes or boiled as small dumplings, or both. One middle piece may be stuffed, and roasted with a bottle-jack before the fire. The other may be cut up, lengthwise, into squares or oblong pieces, removing the hones,fried, and served with anchovy sauce. This is the most expeditious plan (and not the least palatable) when a large pike is sent into the house, and a dish of fish demanded, with little time to prepare it in. The pike being deficient in fat does not lend itself satisfactorily to pickling or potting, or other preparations with vinegar and spice. In trout and salmon countries it is unduly underrated. Pike-fishers there are looked upon as amateur rat-catchers would be in sporting counties, which does not prevent a nice-sized pike from being very acceptable meat now and then. Pels Stewed with Sorrel, D.B.—Large eels are not required for this dish, middle-sized ones are the best, small ones will do. Buy them alive. If you can pro- cure them from brackish water, rivers’ mouths, or estu- aries, all the better. When skinned, cut them into pieces three or three and a half inches long. Put them into a vessel or bowl, pour boiling water over them, to make them discharge what blood, &c., they may contain. The French kitchen term for this operation, whether performed with cold or boiling water, is degorger, for which our word “ disgorge ” is rather too strong. Its object is not only to improve colour by rendering pro- visions whiter and more delicate-looking, but to remove strong and unpleasant flavours. It will thus often render agreeable articles otherwise unpalatable. It is not a cooking, but a mere preliminary to cooking. As soon as the articles are sufficiently cleansed, they are taken out of the water, drained, and the real cooking then begins; therefore, set your cleansed pieces of eel aside to drain. All eels, in whatever way they are to be dressed, should be thus treated. Take two or three handfuls of broad- leaved sorrel; if not to be had, any garden variety; in default of which, the wild sorrel of the pastures will do; wash it well, to get rid of sand and dirt. If the leaves are tender, as in spring, put them as they are into a sauce- pan with the water adhering to them, cover them down close with the lid, stew them, and v.mrk them to a mash with a spoon. Later in the season, when the mid rib of the leaf is tough, strip off the green portion, and stew that only to a mash. Thus prepared, with the addition of a little salt, sorrel will keep for some little time, and be ready when wanted. The French, in fact, in whose cookery sorrel is absolutely a necessary ingredient, boil it down in this way during the course of summer, as a pro- vision for their winter requirements. In every small French town, prepared sorrel, fit for immediate use, may be bought by pennyworths, and less. Chop a few onions very fine. Put butter in a stewpan; when it is brown, cook the chopped onions in it. Season with pepper and salt. Throw in your eels, and let them brown in the butter. When they are nearly done enough, add the sorrel prepared as above. When the eels are quite done, take them out with a spoon, and lay them on the dish in which they are to be served. Take the saucepan with the sorrel in it off the fire. As soon as it has ceased boiling, stir into it two yolks of egg (or more, according to the quantity of eel), working them together, round and round, until all is smooth and thoroughly incorporated. Then pour the sorrel over the eels, and serve. Eels are curious and contradictory creatures. They are so tenacious of life as to be hard to kill, and yet can neither stand heat nor cold. A sharp frost, or a tempe- rature a little above too” Fahr., is most destructive to them. They were long believed to be viviparous (not to mention the advocates of their spontaneous generation), but are now ascertained to be produced from roe, hke