THE DOG. £06 the weed back, so as to expose the crevices to view. Here, clinging against the sides of the rocks, you will see convex-shaped spots of a jelly-like substance, the colours being either brown, olive green, or red. These are the commonest kind of sea-anemones—the most curious, and at the same time the most hardy, of the objects you will find. But there they are likely to re- main, unless you know how to dislodge them. Place your finger upon one, and it will throw up a jet of water, and at the same time tighten its hold, so that it cannot be removed without being mutilated; but approach it cautiously, and quickly force the thumb-nail under the edge of its base, and it may be peeled off unhurt without difficulty. If you do not Succeed in the first attempt, leave the creature alone, and try another. This smooth anemone {Acthiia mesembryanthe7nuni) will well repay you for the trouble of taking, for it will need less care and yet outlive everything else that you may happen to get. ECONOMY IN COAL. The price which coal has now attained, after a steady rise almost unexampled in any article of household consumption, makes its cost a very serious part of the expenses of middle-class and poorer households, and should direct attention to simple means, by which an economy of from 25 to 40 per cent, in the domestic con- sumption of coal can be easily effected. Many grates are far larger than necessary, and by the insertion of cast-iron “ cheeks ” at each end, may be filled with only two-thirds the quantity before required, without any loss of heat. A stiU better plan, where room enough can be spared, is to insert cheeks of fire-clay or brick, and to put in the back of the grate also a slab of the same. By even the slab at the back alone, the quantity of fuel required will be diminished considerably, while the heat will rather be increased than otherwise. Ashes should never be thrown away, but carefully pre- served and mixed with an equal quantity of coal-dust or small coal, and then slightly damped. Use this compost at the back of the fire, where it will burn brightly and pleasantly. Many servants know this, but will not do it unless compelled, though it would really save them the trouble of sifting ashes. But the chief of all means for saving fuel is the following:—Cut a piece of sheet-iron one-eighth of an inch thick, of a shape and size to reach within one inch of each side of the grate bottom, and to project one and a half inches in the front. Lay this over the bottom grating. In making the fire, half fill the grate with coals ; then put some shavings or paper, and over this some sticks or bits of charcoal. On the top lay a few of yesterday’s cinders, and finally some pieces of coal, not shovelled on, but carefully laid by hand. Many servants will ridicule thus lighting a fire “ at the top,” and will tell you the fire will not “ catch ” downwards through the coal. But try it, and you will find that this plan not only saves an incredible quantity of coal, but that it saves the housemaid trouble, and the room is far better warmed. The fire is to be replenished at the bottom, by putting pieces on the ledge and pushing them in, also wherever an opening occurs among the live coals, but never on the top. The shovel and poker must, in fact, be discarded, and only the tongs used. At least one- third of all coal used in sitting-rooms may be saved in this way, the reasons for which are very simple. The coals are kept quietly glowing, instead of burning fiercely away without giving any more heat ; and all smoke (which is simply fuel wasted) has to pass through the fire, and is consumed to profit, instead of going up the chimney. THE DOG.—IV. TRAINING. If a dog be kept for actual service, such as minding sheep, or assisting the sportsman, he will generally be more efficient and valuable if trained up from birth by his owner, than if purchased when professedly “ broken ” by another. The animal will not only be much more under control, but will understand his master’s peculiar signs and gestures in a degree he will not do if broken by a stranger. In fact, even when you have trained your own dog, if you lend him a few days to another person, the chances are that, on his return, it will be some little time before he is quite as useful as before—so rapidly and strongly do even individual idiosyncrasies become reflected in the intelligent animal. Training dogs is much facilitated by the fact that habits handed down through successive generations are trans- mitted almost as strongjyto the offspring as natural instincts. Thus, a Newfoundland may be as intelligent in general as a Scotch collie ; but the most careful training would fail in making him so good a sheep-dog as the other becomes with very little trouble, for the simple reason that his an- cestors for generations have been trained to that duty, and he takes to it almost as a second nature. It is the same with sporting dogs ; and hence the great importance of obtaining, if possible, puppies from a well-bred strain— they do not give one quarter the trouble in training. They are, in fact, naturally disposed to do what is required of them, and their inclinations often need little beyond con- trolling and directing. It has been said, indeed, that a cross-bred, or otherwise slow and dull dog, when trained, will be more reliable and useful than a better-brqd and more docile animal; but we do not think such an opinion was ever held by any one who had really tried both. For the training of the Sheep-dog little definite in- struction can be laid down, success depending almost entirely on the intelligence, patience, and, we may add, kindness of the shepherd. An impatient, ill-tepipered man will never train a good dog ; while with, a good master a well-bred collie may be taught to do almost any- thing. The education of the pup should Commence as soon as he can run faster than the sheep,, so as to “ head ” them: till then it is useless to begin, though he should be taken out with them in order to become friendly with them, and to understand the most common words of command, which he will soon do if in company with p. steady old dog. Indeed, an old, well-trained animal is almost essential to the training of a first-rate sheep-dog with any ordinary trouble, though they may be’trained without, if the shepherd have time and patience to persevere. If, however, there be a sagacious old dog to assist, the task is very easy. As' soon as the pup cap go fast enough, he should be sent in company with the old dog to fetch in stragglers. After two or three times he will do this by himself, when he should be most sedulously taught to leave them alone when he has performed the duty. The next lesson is to “go round them ” and .keep the flock together; and the old dog again will do half the teaching ; without him, patience and good temper is the only method. The young dog must next be trained to obey not only the voice, but the waving of the hand in any direction. When, in addition to this, the pup can keep up the flock behind while his master walks before, he is as well trained as ordinary shepherds have any idea of, but is very far short of what he ought to be, to the incal- culable saving of time and labour. He can be taught by dividing the flock and putting him in the middle, to drive different flocks without mixing one animal ; to jump over a hedge in order to head the flock in a lane, and in fact can be made, and in Scotland often is, so perfect in his busi- ness as to be trusted with the sole oversight of thousands of sheep during the whole day, keeping all in their proper