187 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. not so often as in scarlet fever. This stage may last from two to five days. Then, at the end of from two to five days the eruption occurs, first on the forehead and neck, then the face, and then gradually in from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, extends over the trunk. It consists of little red points, slightly elevated, which run into each other so as to have the appearance of circular, or ci-escen- tic, patches of eruption. The eruption disappears on pressure, but soon returns again. When the eruption appears, the severity of the symptoms increases. Often the cough is much relieved by the appearance of the eruption, and on the second day of it, the symptoms begin to abate. By the close of the third or fourth day after the eruption, it has well nigh disappeared in the order in' which it came out. Simple cases soon get well; but a few complications may arise, and a few consequences may give trouble, such as eruptions on the skin. The most serious complication likely to arise, or to attend upon an attack of measles, is inflammation of the chest, and in winter this is most likely to be trouble- some and even dangerous. The symptoms of this are the continuance of cough and feverishness, and quick breath- ing after the eruption has been out for a few days, by which time, in simple cases, all the symptoms should be under- going abatement. Whether the inflammation affects the substance of the lung, or only the bronchial tubes, is a matter that can only be determined by a medical man. Generally speaking, in mild weather and in tolerably healthy children, measles is not a fatal disease. Treatme7it.—"The domestic treatment of measles con- sists in keeping the patient in bed, in a room with a comfortable temperature, and in administering light diet. If the case is mild, that is, if the feverishness is not great, and the breathing is but little quickened, little more treat- ment is required. The following mixture would tend to cool the patient and relieve the hard or croupy cough ;— Citrate of potash ... 2 scruples. Ipecacuanha wine ... ... ... i| drachms. Simple syrup ... ... ... 3 drachms. Water ... ... ... ... 4 ounces. One table-spoonful to be taken every four hours by a child from three to five years old. More or less to older or younger children, and according to the fever and hard- ness of the cough. If the case is at all severe, a doctor should be called in. Indeed, in any case of measles this should be done ; for the chest is apt to be seriously and insidiously affected, and the disease is apt to leave “ dregs ” as they are called, or consequences which require judicious treatment. To prevent the disease spreading, the same measures must be adopted as in the case of scarlet fever. There is not quite the same urgency, inasmuch as the disease is not generally so fatal. It is very curious that scarlet fever and measles were confounded until comparatively recently. Our tabulated description will sufficiently indicate the difference of the diseases. SCARLET FEVER. 1. In the early symptoms, vomiting is a prominent feature. There is an in- flamed state of the throat. 2. The eruption occurs on second day of the fever. 3. The colour of the erup- tion bright scarlet. The eruption is in large patches extensively diffused. 4. The skin peels off freely. 5- Dropsy often follows. Vaccination and Small-P, MEASLES. 1. In the early symptoms, sneezing, cough, and other symptoms of a cold are pro- minent. Throat not affected. 2. The eruption does not generally occur so soon; generally on the fourth day. 3. Eruption is darker, and and occurs in small circular or crescentic patches. 4. Slight casting off of skin. 5. D ropsy does not follow, r.—We shall not spend much space over small-pox, for it has no business to trouble anyone now. Vaccination if well done^ atid repeated 07ice or twice m the course of life, is practically a C07nplete protection agamst this 7?iost horrible disease. The law of the land, in the shape of the Compulsory Vaccination Act, wisely requires every child to be vaccinated before it is three months old, unless a certificate of its unfitness be produced from a medical rnan. Some dissatisfaction has been at times expressed with this most beneficent law ; but most unreasonably so. Vaccination is a most simple operation, it seldom causes much inconvenience, though now and then in children disposed to have skin eruptions, it occasions one. It is still more seldom, or never, the medium of transmitting serious disease, and it practically, as we have said, is a protection against one of the most loathsome and deadly diseases to which the body is subject. The protective power of vaccination may be judged of by the fact, that at the Small-Pox Hospital they did not have one case of small-pox among the nurses or attendants for a period of twenty years or more. Every nurse on entering the hospital is re-vacemated. The safety of these nurses, not after the vaccination, but after the re- vaccination, shows that vaccination only needs to be repeated to be a perfect protection against small-pox even in a small-pox hospital. There is nothing grander, and yet nothing more simple, nothing more beneficent in the whole history of medicine than vaccination, and nothing can be more unreasonable than the prejudice which it is attempted just now to create against it. If it occasionally gives activity to an eruptive tendency in a child, this is of slight importance, compared with the awful eruption of small-pox from which the child is saved, involving the risk, be it remembered, of permanent disfigurement, of blindness, and other consequences. It should also be explicitly stated that small-pox is followed by eruptions much more frequently, and much more troublesome, than in the case of vaccination. As regards the risk of trans- mission of serious disease from one child to another, it is so rare as never to have been seen by many surgeons of great experience ; and even if this peril has to be in- curred, it is by no means so great as that of the loathsome disease from which it saves. Driven from every other stronghold, the anti-vaccinationists have tried to show that while small-pox has been prevented by vaccination other diseases have in consequence become more rife. Well, there is no proof of this. It is a baseless piece of assumption, and even if there was any ground for the idea, most people would prefer anything to small-pox. To object to be saved from small-pox because you may incur some other disease, would be about as reasonable as to refuse to be saved from a railway collision, because you might at some future day sprain your ankle in getting out of an omnibus. On the whole, nothing can be more un- reasonable than the objection to be vaccinated. It is not only unreasonable, but it is selfish, for an unvaccinated person is apt to get small-pox and may then convey a dreadful disease to others. Twenty persons have been known to get the small-pox from one person recovering from it. In the light of these facts, it is clear that all persons should submit cheerfully, nay, thankfully, to the Compulsory Vaccination Act, and have their children vac- cinated. Not only so, all wise persons will be revaccinated, at least once in their lifetime, and have their children revaccinated as they grow up to maturity. The operation should be done with matter in a moist state and direct from arm to arm. Much has been said lately about having matter direct from the cow ; but this is of little consequence, provided that matter be taken from a healthy child. At the surgeries of public vaccinators, parents can judge for themselves of the healthiness of children, but this does not lessen the responsibility of vaccinators, who must consider the selection of good and safe matter a point of the most vital importance.