261 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. in the tureen, and pour over the soup. If the family like | that when pressed with the finger the impression will not - elery, it can be varied by i he permanent. In poor meat, the lean is usually dark, onions, they can be added ; if celery the addition of a little celery cut fine. Another change can be made by adding the yolks of well-beaten eggs stirred slowly into it, or rich cream can be added. Persons living on the sea-shore can make several dishes thus varied with little expense. £e/ Soup.—Select for this middle-sized eels, not thicker than a medium joint of ox-tail, nor thinner than a man’s thumb. Buy them alive; kill by stunning them on the head. Skin, empty, and cut them into two-inch lengths, which throw into salt and water to purify and whiten for an hour or so. MARKETING.—I. Before going to market it is a very good rule to deter- mine what shall be purchased and in what quantity. This is especially needful when the butcher is to be visited. Another rule is to deal at shops where good articles only are sold, and if possible to take your money with you, because a ready-money customer will, as a rule, be the best served. It is not always safe to let the butcher, poulterer, fishmonger, or other provision dealer choose for you, because he may be over anxious to sell what is not in the best condition, or what is for some other cause hardly saleable. Experienced per- sons will not fail to observe carefully the quality of what they buy, and they will reflect upon the quantity of bone, gristle, or other waste in it. They will also consider the requirements of the family, and the uses to which they can put what is not consumed as soon as cooked. At the butcher’s see the meat cut and weighed, and placed ready to be sent home: you will then know what you have bought. Always buy good meat rather than inferior, and if possible, from the best parts of the animal. To aid the in- experienced, we will now enter We commence with Beef^ Fig. 2, which are as follow d4 1sjljs 1 ^6 / \9\s? l\ somewhat into detail, the principal joints of the fat skinny, and the sinewy portions distinctly shown, especially a horny texture in the ribs. Beef should be perfectly sound, sweet, and fresh, as taint rapidly spreads, and if frosted it will not cook properly. It is, perhaps, scarcely needful to say, that several of the joints which are enumerated above, are readily and commonly divided by the butcher, and sold in portions for the convenience of small families and slender purses. If at any time more is bought than is wanted for present use, care should be taken to let it be from such parts as may be cut into two, the one for roasting and the other for salting and boiling; or let it be such as may be easily warmed afresh, or other- wise presented hot again at table, which will be the case with such parts as are stewed, and such cheap portions as the heart. A cold roasted ox-heart cut into slices and warmed in gravy, is as good as when first cooked. Qualities of Veal.—U the head is fresh, the eyes will be plump and full; but if stale, they will be sunk and wrinkled. In fresh meat, the vein of the shoulder is. of a bright and clear red. Green 01; yellow spots prove the meat to be bad.. A good neck and breast will be white and dry, and not at all clammy or soft.. In a loin, the kidney is the part which taints the soonest. Generally, good veal, is of a bright colour, and firm, and neither flabby nor of a sickly smell. The meat of a cow calf is not considered the best. All veal should be cooked when quite fresh, as it rapidly de- teriorates ; nor will it keep long even after it is cooked. It must, therefore, be not only purchased fresh, but in such quantities as will be soon consumed. Until recently the whiteness of veal was enhanced by the mode of killing, which drew all the blood from the animal. This mode has, how- ever, been prohibited by law, and consequently veal is not so white 2 as it was formerly expected to be ; but has a very slight rosy tinge in the lean, even when of the finest quality. The following are the joints into which Veal, Fig. i, is usually Fore Quarter. 1. Cheek. 2. Neck, or sticking-piece. 3. Clod. 4. Shin. 5. Shoulder, or leg of mut- ton piece. 6. Chuck ribs. 7. Middle ribs. 8. Fore ribs. 9. Brisket. Hind Quarter. 10. Sirloin. 11. Thin flank. 12. Rump. 13. Aitchbone. 14. Round, or buttock. 15. Mouse-buttock. 16. Veiny piece. 17. Thick flank. 18. Leg. divided :• 1. 2. 3- 4- 5- 6. Loin, chump end. ,, best end. Neck, best end. ,, scrag end. Fillet. Hind knuckle. 7. Fore knuckle 8. Breast, brisket endj- 9. ,, best end. 10. Blade-bone. 11. Head. Besides the above there are the kidneys, liver, heart, feet, j and sweetbread. HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—VII. Besides the above, there are the kidneys, heart, tripe, heels, sweetbreads, tongue, and palate. Quality of Beef—Young and well-fed ox beef is the best. It may be known by the lean being of a fine, smooth, or open grain, and the fat of a yellowish white. When the fat is either a mottled yellow or white, the meat is doubtful. The suet, however, must be very white. Cow beef is inferior, its fat is whiter, the lean closer in the grain and not of so bright a red. Bull beef has white and skinny fat, closer-grained lean of a dark red, and a stronger smell than other beef. Good beef is more elastic to the touch than that which is old or in bad condition, so CARD GAMES. Playing with cards is in many households interdicted, as it is thought to lead to gambling, while in many others it is countenanced as an innocent amusement, greatly promoting sociality. It is scarcely necessary to point out that playing for money is by no means a necessary adjunct to such pas- times : if it were, they would find no mention in these pages, for we hold gambling in any of its shapes in as much abhorrence as any of our readers. But there are many card games which possess quite sufficient merit in themselves to afford interest and recreation, without the