77 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. and of an iron-grey colour. Like the modern greyhound, the dog was good-tempered enough, but had an unmis- takably ferocious look about the head. The few who possess these dogs now are anxiously endeavouring to per- petuate them, and we trust their efforts may be successful. The greyhound is moderately affectionate and intelli- gent, but sometimes snappish to strangers. As is well known, it is now only employed in coursing. The other hounds, such as the foxhound, the harrier, and the beagle, do not belong in any sense to the house- hold, being, as a rule; only adapted for the pack. They vary in size, but resemble each other remarkably in shape and qualities. We believe them all to have been originally derived from the bloodhound, crossed with the greyhound, but we question very much if there be not a dash of the bull- dog in some celebrated strains, though this has been denied by good authorities. Hounds are kept under the severest dis- cipline, but when not under the control of the huntsman, whipper-in, or other attendants, are highly dangerous to strangers. ' There are, however, individual dogs which have shown remarkable attach- ment and docility. Of Sheep Dogs there are two kinds, the English rough sheep dog, which very much resembles a very large rough terrier without a tail, and the Scotch collie. The English dog is a very useful animal, having a splendid constitution and great intelligence; but the Scotch collie is a far superior breed, and is every year becoming more highly prized in England. This beautiful breed has a very fox-like muzzle, expressive but shy-looking eyes, sharp and graceful ears turning well over forwards, and generally a white line down the forehead between the eyes. There are both smooth and rough varieties—the latter is most admired—but his coat is different from that of the Newfoundland, the hair being closer and straighter, and not so long. The tail is very large and bushy, and when running is always carried high, though in repose it droops. The loins are beautifully arched, and the whole out- line remarkably sprightly and graceful. Down the legs the coat is short. The colour varies greatly. The true-bred collie is one of the most intelligent dogs in the world, and perhaps surpasses all others in quick resource and readiness of invention in cases of emergency. It is in minding sheep, however, that its capacities are best tested ; for having been trained to this work for generations, a well- bred collie takes to it “ naturally,” and needs compara- tively little training. A Scotch shepherd said his dog “could do anything except carry the hurdles,” and the praise was not exaggerated. The Dalmatian or Carriage Dog is doubtless a hound, the well-known spotted skin having probably appeared accidentally from some cross. As a rule, they seem to care most for the stable, and hence are not adapted for domestic pets, though inoffensive and good-tempered; but we have known individuals which have displayed con- siderable intelligence and affection. Many less marked varieties have been omitted from our list, and we will only add in conclusion that in choosing a dog, care should always be taken to ascertain his dispo- sition. Individuals of every race may be troublesome or even actually ferocious, and every person owes it to society not to keep a dangerous dog. In our next paper we shall enter upon the subject of trainhig dogs. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—V. WOODS USED IN HOUSEHOLD CARPENTRY. Having completed our survey of the most necessary tools, it will only be necessary to make acquaintance with the few sorts of wood we shall at first require, to be able to at once proceed with a practical job. In starting, we feel that a few words on the all-important subject of seasoning may possibly save some of our readers much unnecessary trouble and vexation. When a living tree is cut down, the pores or vessels between the fibres will be found to be full of sap, and it is in the complete, though gradual extraction of this sap, that the success of the process of “seasoning” consists. If we look at the section across the grain of a tree, which is mostly nearly circular, we shall notice a number of annular rows of fibres, or rather the ends of them, and it is from between these rings that the sap has to escape. It stands to reason that the cells contained between the rings nearest to the surface will be the first to lose their moisture, and that the heart of the wood will continue wet long after the outside is ready for use. It is also well known that in the process of drying, wood contracts considerably ; but the inner fibres, being protected from the influence of the atmosphere by the outer rows, do not shrink in the same proportion. The consequence will be readily seen by reference to the diagram. Fig. 40, which shows the result which is almost sure to ensue if a log of green wood is merely left to take care of itself. It cracks in directions mostly radial. To prevent this, it is common to grease or wax the ends and sides of the log to defend it from the results consequent upon a too sudden exposure to the atmosphere. The effect is much more completely avoided, however, by having the logs split into quarters where the tree is of sufficient size to warrant it, although this plan is not economical. The only safe means to guard against the disastrous effects of too sudden drying, is to expose the wood very gra- dually to the influence of the atmo- sphere. It is considered that, inthe case of large timber, the process of season- ing is much facilitated by an immer- sion in water, which is said to dilute the sap ; anyhow it is of the highest importance that wood should be quite dry before being used, as, if it is not, the finished work will warp and shrink in a manner very unsatisfactory and dis- couraging ; none of our readers who are fortunate enough to possess access to plantations of grow- ing timber, must imagine they will be able to cut down a tree and use it at once to any advantage. It will be found much more economical to purchase just the required article from some respectable timber or hard-wood mer- chant, who will only supply it in a condition fit for immediate use. Shrinking does not take place to any sensible degree in the direction of the length of the fibre. The time allowed for seasoning should in no case be less than two years, and in the large hard woods must be even considerably longer. We have selected the following six woods as being at once the most likely to be used in household carpentry, and at the same time enough for our present purposes, and shall describe the more valuable and exclusively ornamental varieties as occasion requires :— Ash {Fraxinus).—The wood of this tree, which is a native of Britain and North Europe, is one of the toughest.