THE HOUSE. 248 ticularly in small houses, as, from their mode of construc- tion (of rectangular bricks and mortar or cement) they cannot efficiently fulfil these requirements ; they cannot be made perfectly air tight, thus allowing the escape of noxious gases and perhaps liquid matter, and the imper- fections and irregularities which necessarily occur in the construction of the joints, seriously interfere with the easy and free passage of sewage matter, particularly when it is reduced to small quantities of semi-liquid matter. There is no portion of ordinary house building so likely to be neglected and carelessly done as the construction of the / drains, and unless the workmen are thoroughly super- " intended, constant mistakes will occur which cannot be rectified after the drains are covered in and the house inhabited, without great annoyance and discomfort to the inmates; thus, we have known instances where drains have become choked up, causing, of course, the most unpleasant smells in the house (which are very often put down to other causes), merely through the carelessness of the workmen, who in building the drains, have allowed large pieces of mortar to tumble into the drain—this is a very common occur- rence in brick drains. For these and other reasons we confidently recommend pipe drainage as being in every way preferable to brick, par- ticularly for ordinary sized houses ; great care, however, should also be taken in their construction. We think the best drain-pipes that are now made are the vitrified stone- ware ; these are to be pre- ferred to the glazed earthen- ware pipes which are cheaper, but are neither so strong nor durable as the vitrified, and the inside is apt to become corroded with the sewage matter, which, when removed, causes the half- burnt earthenware to ab- sorb the foul water, and thus the pipe soon becomes de- cayed and worthless. There can be no falser economy than the use of inferior materials for drains, for if they are not properly constructed in the first instance and of good materials, they are sure to become an endless source of annoyance. Soil pipes from water-closets when possible should be of lead, not iron or earthenware, the latter are of course cheaper than lead, and galvanised iron pipes are therefore very commonly used in cheaply built houses. They are not, however, to be recommended, as they are sure to corrode in the inside and require repair, which, from the ordinary position of soil pipes inside houses, cither in angles or in chases in the walls, is always to be avoided as much as possible. Waste water-pipes from sinks may be of lead or earthenware, though lead are of ■ course preferable ; great care should be taken that they are not made too small, as from the greasy matters that are sure to pass through them, they are soon apt to get choked. of Drains.—With respect to the size of drains, the chief point to be remembered is that, whilst they are made sufficiently large to ensure an immediate discharge of all the matter that may have to pass through them, at the same time care should be taken that they are not made too large to ensure this object. There is quite as much danger in having the drains too large as too small, as in the former case, when the sewage matter is reduced in quantity it is apt to become sluggish, and will not pass j freely through the drains, particularly when the fall is very small, as is but too often the case. Fall.— House drains should not have a fall from their head to the junction with the sewer of less than one inch in every ten feet, and more than this where possible ; unfortunately, however, from the prevailing custom, par- ticularly in London, of having all the kitchen offices in the basement of the house, and below the level of the streets, there is great difficulty in getting a good fall for the house drains, which are often laid with little or no fall at all. We think, however, that for small houses containing from eight to tv/elve rooms, a six-inch pipe drain (if laid to a proper fall) will be found amply suffi- cient, whilst a nine-inch drain will suffice for houses of the largest size. Pipes of larger size than this can only be required in very exceptional cases, such as schools, hospitals, and manufactories, or where there may be large quantities of water used. A five-inch soil pipe will be found sufficient for water-closets, and from one and a half to three inches for the waste pipes of sinks. Care should be taken to see that the joints of the drain pipes are properly executed in cement of the best quality, and not in clay or mortar, it being of the greatest im- portance to prevent the possi- bility of any escape of effluvia or liquid matter through the joints. The pipes should be laid with their socket joints in the direction of the fall. In cheaply built houses it is not an uncommon practice for workmen to connect to- gether drain pipes of unequal diameter, concealing the ill- fitting joints by cement. We need not say that such a dangerous practice will be sure to attract attention sooner or later, as, in truth, all the dodges that may be resorted to by careless work- men in indifferently built houses. The connection be- tween the house drain and the public sewer is a matter of such importance that it is now generally undertaken by the district board of works, under the direction of their own surveyor and workmen ; and in London and most towns it is the duty of the board of works to see that all house drains are properly constructed and trapped, and they have power to compel the owners to have the same altered and improved when not so done. We may add that the level of the drains should always be kept as high as possible, so that the connection with the main sewer may be above the invert. It is not an uncommon practice to find houses built in new districts before the roads are properly formed and the main drainage com- pleted, and in such cases cesspools are made in the rear of the houses to receive the drainage until the main sewer is formed; and when the connection is made between the house drainage and the sewer, the cesspool is apt to be forgotten or not properly enaptied and filled up, thus causing great annoyance. Traps.—We come now to perhaps the most important portion of our subject—viz., the trapping of drains or the means that are generally taken to prevent the escape of foul air from the drains or sewers into houses or yards. The preservation of the purity of air in every house, and therefore to a great extent the health and comfort of the inmates, depends veiy much upon this apparently simple question. In the first place, as simplicit}' snould be the