200 LIFE ASSURANCE. will, which in that case, if not already made, should at once be executed— and a marriage, it should be observed, renders a new will necessary, a fact often lost sight of—or the policy can be assigned to trustees, to be received by them and applied for the benefit of the widow and children according to the wishes and intentions of the assured. The advantage of this course over the other is that a duly executed legal settlement by a person in perfectly solvent circumstances would be good against creditors in case of bankruptcy. The great importance of having wills and marriage settlements, and indeed all documents of a like nature, drawn out in a strictly legal manner, makes it our duty to counsel our readers-bearing in mind the old adage, that “ he that is his own lawyer, has a fool for his client”—to apply to a respectable solicitor in all matters of this kind, and to act entirely under his advice. A few pounds expended in securing good legal advice may save much expense, anxiety, and even litigation at a future period. (See article on the law of will-making at page 90 of the Household Guide.) Policies of assurance can be mortgaged, like other pro- perty, for securing temporary advances of money, or can be made the subject of absolute sale ; in both cases by proper legal deeds. In case of any such dealing with policies, it is necessary for the protection of the interests of the parties concerned, that due notice in writing should be given to the office of the charge affecting the security. Upon a claim arising under a life policy, it is usual to require evidence of age to be furnished, if not previously admitted on the policy, which it is now very usual to do when that document is issued ; also a certificate of burial, or the registrar’s certificate of death. Upon receipt of these documents at the office, the claim is allowed, and is payable generally three months thereafter. In the meantime, the title to the policy has to be established. The claim may be made under probate of will, or letters of administration, if the assured die intestate, or by mortgage deed, or by deed of absolute assignment, one or other of which documents has to be left at the office for inspection, and if found satisfactory, a form of receipt, to be endorsed on the policy, is furnished ready for execution by the holder thereof, on the day the claim becomes payable. Having now done our best to explain some of the more prominent features of life assurance, it only remains for us to add a few words of earnest recommendation to our readers not to delay taking advantage of the benefits which are offered by the many highly respectable and prosperous companies of the day, to all persons in pos- session of incomes ceasing with their lives. We must repeat that there is no other possible method by which those so circumstanced—and such form the great bulk of the population of this country—can make a similar pro- vision for those who are dear to them, and who, in the course of nature, they may pre-decease. Although it is very true that wc act, many of us, as if we really did be- lieve that “ all men think all men mortal but themselves,” we must in our hearts know that the day of reckoning must come for us all. The first annual premium once paid, remember, the sum assured is secured at death, whenever that event may happen. The earlier our assurance and testamentary arrange- ments are made, the better for those we leave behind us —and we die no sooner for duly settling our affairs—the premium increasing so much with the age, to say nothing of the fact that the health of the strongest may fail, and the advantages of life assurance are reserved, for the most part, for the healthy, or, at all events, for those who are not seriously out of health. It is often objected by those who wish to find excuses for deferring what is so obviously an undoubted high moral duty, that they can do better by investing their savings in a bank, friendly society, or building club. Undoubtedly, all provident investments of this class are highly com- mendable and advantageous in their way, but they do not, cannot, compare with the system we have been advocat- ing, which provides a constantly increasing sum, payable on the death of a strong man, if he be struck down by disease or accident at any 7no7nent. We greatly doubt if any better investment can be made, even if the life assured survive to extreme old age, for he obtains his compensation in the operation of the bonus system, by which large sums are certain to be allotted to a policy in any first-class office, and no individual can so well invest from year to year the small amounts which are paid as premiums of assurance, at a high rate of compound interest, as life assurance companies are enabled to do for them. Besides, in all ordinary investment the temptation is constantly likely to arise to defer setting the money aside for some reason or other, which may appear a good one at the time, owing to the pressure of some temporary pecuniary difficulty or otherwise, while the payment of a life assurance premium is about the last thing a man is likely to defer, knowing that if he does so he relinquishes all benefit from his policy, and he knows that the antici- pated provision for his family is gone for ever, and the whole of his payments—except the comparatively small proportion thereof that he may receive back as the sur- render value of his policy—are altogether sacrificed. He will accordingly make the greatest effort to keep up his payments, and the feeling of satisfaction in having made due provision for his widow and orphans will sustain him in what may be often a severe effort of self-denial, and will be a constant source of gratification to a man who feels —and who should not ?—that it is no less his moral duty to provide for those of his own house after his death than during his life. It may, perhaps, hardly be considered part of our work to criticise the existing machinery of any assurance offices, that being a matter rather for the offices themselves than for the public outside. Still, when an office becomes em- barrassed, people very naturally call in question arrange- ments, the advisability of which, if the office had remained in a satisfactory state, would never have been disputed. It is too often found on examination that the working expenses are enormously high, and that a large proportion of the expense is owing to the practice of maintaining agents at high salaries in different parts of the country, and giving them a large percentage on any business they may bring in. It would be well if assurance offices, in- stead of inducing people to seek for information from an interested agent, would publish, as clearly as possible, through the various channels of communication with the public, such information as may enable the ordinary reader, with the aid of such remarks as we have made upon this subject, to form some reliable judgment for himself on their stability. That they should be able to do this for themselves is, of course, most important, and the more intelligible and straightforward the accounts given by assurance offices of their position and method of working, either in their own circulars or in their advertisements in the widely circulated newspapers and magazines, the more ready will intending assurers be to have recourse to this method of acquainting themselves with the representations made. Considering the important benefit of life assurance to the public at large, it is most desirable that the clearest possible understanding should exist upon the subject. It will be observed that in the papers which we have now brought to a conclusion we have only dealt with life assurance. Insurance against fire^nd other risks can be provided for in a similar manner, and on similar prin- ciples ; and we trust no argument will be needed to impress the advisability of making such provision on the readers of the Household Guide.