338 HOUSEHOLD CHEMISTRY. Joined by chance and without order ; only silk and cotton are not mingled in the same article—it must be of one or the other only. Counterpaties in Patchwork.—Fig. 2 is a design for a patchwork counterpane or'table cover, which may be made of any mixed scraps ; keeping the dark parts of the design dark, and the light ones, light. The ground is of light squares. This would make a beautiful piece of fancy work, in purchased materials of silk or satin. The centre diamond, and the dark squares violet, the light gold colour ; the diamond round it, dark patches of bright red, of a crimson shade ; the light of azure. The straight lines each way, one violet, one the new intense green, reversed on the opposite side. The four stars, azure for the light, crimson the dark. The zigzag line, bright green. The border of half-squares, which comes next, violet. The alternate light squares at the corners, gold colour ; the dark half-squares next them, crimson. The pattern-like clusters of light azure and the black one in centre dark crimson. A straight line round, also of green. Alter, make squares of violet. Greek border of azure. Alternate squares crimson. Ground, a friars’ grey (a sort of pale neutral green); a French grey (lavender); azureline (a pale bluish tint); a stone colour, a cream colour or white. Wad, and line with silk. Quilt by running between all the joins. Add a rich upholstery cord all round, and tassels at the comers of gold-coloured silk. Colours used :—Azure, bright green, violet, gold colour, crimson ; the ground colours to choice. Another disposal of colours :—All the dark patches a bright crimson red. Greek border, azure, and straight border of a light colour within the Greek one, Metternich green. Light part of the clusters of fine amber. Light- coloured alternate squares round the straight diamond border, Havannah. Zigzag border inside the diamond line, Metternich green. Four stars round light parts, azure. Centre diamond, blue, light parts, amber. Ground of friars’ grey. Gold tassels, and lining bright crimson. Colours used in working :—Bright light crimson, azure blue, Metternich green, golden amber, a very little Havan- nah, friars’ grey. if these are of satin, and the lining of sarcenet, the quilt will be splendid. Join the lining in breadths. Quilt with friars’ grey tailors’ twist. It may be as well to explain that Metternich green is that rich, full, deep-coloured “ candlelight green,” almost of a verdigris shade, and metallic in hue. Havannah, a light brown, richer than a fawn. The worker can get the light shades at any first-rate Berlin wool depot, and match them in satin. The green, however, can only be procured in silk, such as filoselle. Greens in wool are all dull. Fig. I is a design for a different kind of patchwork quilt. It is a sort of applique work on stout coarse linen sheeting. To make this, in the first place apiece of stout white linen, a yard square is taken. On the centre of this a patchwork star (see Fig. i), is placed. A piece like a ring is cut from dark-coloured chintz and run on round this, leaving a few inches between the star and the ring. A border of three rows of triangular pieces is added. Between the ring and the border eight inches are left, filled in the corners with diamonds, and between with leaves. A border six inches square is covered with dark crosses at the corners and diamonds and leaves between ; this is bordered by a piece of light-flowered chintz a foot wide, with dark-col- oured diamonds a foot square. The next border is six inches wide, with diamonds and ovals attached to it ; the ground light; the diamonds and ovals alternately of two or three colours. A border of striped chintz, with a fringe and coid all round, finishes this counterpane. We shall return to this subject and give other designs in a forthcoming paper. The size of the patchwork arti- cles we may of course leave to be decided by the requu-e- ments of the maker. The patterns given in one of our present examples (Fig. 2), may be very readily adjusted for any size by counting the squares and getting the same number into the space of the article the maker has in hand. HOUSEHOLD CHEMISTRY.—I. INTRODUCTION. Chemical operations are performed every hour in the day in every household. From the moment when the housemaid strikes the first match in the morning to the moment when the last candle is extinguished at night the forces of chemistry are at work ; and even when all is still, and the gentle breathing of the sleeping inmates is the only perceptible movement in the house, that very breath- ing involves a beautiful and complex chemical process. And yet how very few people know anything of chemistry! The mistress, when she washes her hands, produces a double decomposition—and does not know it. The housemaid, in striking the lucifer, is—little as she suspects it—promoting oxidation through the influence of friction. And the cook may be shortly defined to be a skilfuS practical chemist who knows nothing of chemistry. We hope in this series of articles to illustrate the im- portance of chemistry in our everyday lives, and the numberless uses to which even a slight knowledge of it may be applied. Systematic instruction in the science would of course be out of place here. The title which we have selected indicates our plan with sufficient distinct- ness. We only propose to draw attention to those facts in chemistry which have a direct practical bearing upon the welfare of the individual household. FOOD. Let us begin with that most interesting, most impor- tant, and most extensive subject, food, and endeavour to glean together some few of the many facts which science has made known in regard to its nature, its uses, and the various methods of preparing it which we have at oust disposal. It is, indeed, a very wide subject, for not only have we to consider a multitude of different substances, prepared and cooked by a multitude of different methods, but we must also, if we would know anything of the reason of the facts which come before us, endeavour tO' learn something of the complex changes which go on in the body, and the way in which the food we eat con- duces towards them. Why is Food required f—The question seems almost absurd, so familiar is the fact; and yet the answer to it involves one of the grandest chapters in the history of science. In its simplest form it may be given in three \^oxA.%—food is fuel. We require food frequently for just the same reason that a fire requires coals frequently, and a lamp, oil—because we are burning away. Strange as this may appear, it is a most certain fact. The air that we breathe into our lungs contains oxygen, and this oxygen combines with or burns the muscles and other organs of our bodies just as it does the coals in a fire. The heat produced in a man’s body in the course of a day is con- siderable in quantity, though not very intense in quality. Taking the average, it is enough to raise five and a half gallons of water from freezing point to boiling point, and this is about the heat that would be given off during the burning of a pound of coals. All this heat comes from the slow wasting or burning of the substance of the body, so that it is evident that if we did not make up for this constant loss by eating food, our organs would soon be wasted away and consumed. A moment’s thought will show how closely this agrees with well-known facts. Why does an animal become so thin during the slow and painful process of starvation ? Clearly because the slow fire in his body is not fed with the fuel of food. This first simple view of the object of food must, how-