239 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. person must make some suitable observation appropriate to his particular trade—the more incongruous to the nar- rative or dissertation which is being read by the first player, the better. The penalty of a forfeit may be exacted from any person who does not reply when appealed to, or who makes a remark not connected with his own pursuit. To give our readers a clear idea of the mode of playing the game, we will suppose the reader lights upon a narra- tive of the visit of the Duke of Edinburgh to Calcutta. He proceeds thus— “A guard of honour composed of” (here he lookSj say, at the Oilman)— Oilman.—“ Tallow candles” “ Was drawn up on the quay, and his Royal Highness on landing was received with a round of”— Butcher.—“ Marrow bones.” “ Delivered in true British fashion. A salute of twenty- one guns was fired from the”— Draper.—“ Band-box,” “ And the ships and forts hoisted their Lawyer.—“ Affidavits.” “ Every house in the vicinity was decorated with ”— Grocer.—“ Treacle,” “ And the windows were filled with elegantly dressed”— Surgeon.—“ Compound fractures.” “ Escorted by the Governor General, his Royal Highness proceeded to the ”— Confectioner.—“ Mince-pies,” “ And gracefully bowed his acknowledgments to the”— Ironmonger.—“ Fire-shovel.” So the reading continues, until each member of the company has responded, or the paragraph is closed, when another extract may be commenced. The passages most suited for perusal are those which possess some degree of gravity in tone, without being too serious to serve as a foundation for the ridiculous interpolations to which the game will naturally give rise. Of games which are played chiefly to extract forfeits from the company, a very good one is known as— T/ie Picnic.—One of the players volunteers to perform the principal part, by giving an account or description of an imaginary picnic. The rest allot among themselves the names of the individuals supposed to be present at this picnic, or the eatables and other articles which are taken thereto. Thus, “Mr. Smith,” “the Misses Brown,” “ Mr. J ones,” and “ Mrs. Robinson,” with as many more names as may conveniently be shared by the company, may figure in the narrative, which becomes the more graphic if “ the pie,” “the champagne,” “the salt,” “the spoons,” &c., are also represented by different members of the company. Every time mention is made of the name allotted to one of the party, he or she must rise from the chair, turn round, and then resume the seat. At the mention of the word “ picnic,” however, every one of the party must do the same. Any person failing to rise and turn when mentioned, pays a forfeit. The narrator need not draw very highly upon his imagination in the recital, for any commonplace story in which the names are brought in, so as to keep the different members of the party moving, and elicit forfeits from some of them, will sufficiently answer the purpose. He may proceed something in the following fashion. The reader must suppose that the names italicised have all been allotted among the company, and that their representa- tives rise and turn each time they are mentioned :— “ Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Robinson, having several marriageable daughters, laid their heads together to get up ■&. picnic. They took into their confidence Uncle John, Mrs. Jones’s brother, and asked him to invite some of his young friends from the Waste Paper Office, such as Mr. Brilliantspark, Mr. Waltzington, and Mr. Softspeeche Ogle. To make the affair look more natural, the Misses Jones invited their friends Miss Simpersweet and Miss Twhikletoe, while there were also present, &c. &c. Mrs. Robinson provided the game pic, Mrs. Jones the custard, and U7icle John brought down the champagne, the knives and forks, pepper and re?//, and so on. A beautiful meadow near the river was chosen as the scene of the picnic, and when the party arrived a dance was proposed and carried unanimously. The partners were (here the names may be called over). All went merry as several marriage bells, and Mrs. Robinson was just remarking to Mrs. Jones that she thought Mr. Bj'illiantspark was very much taken with her Seraphina, but that Miss Simper- sweet really gave Mr. Ogle too much encouragement, when the proceedings were interrupted by a very unwel- come visitor. This was no other than Farmer BeetrooPs cow, which had been leisurely surveying the company over a stile, and now, pushing through the hedge, seemed determined to make one of the picnic party. The ladies screamed, and ran towards the other end of the field, while Mr. Waltsmgtofi put up his eye-glass and remarked, “What a bo-aw !” “No,” cried Uncle Jolm, who was reputed to be a wit, “ not a boar, my dear fellow, it’s a cow!'’’ “Weally?” said Softspeeche Ogle. “ How vewy wediculous!” The narrator may continue the narrative in a similar strain, until some of the company, less on the alert than others, have incurred forfeits enough for the time being. Similar to the Picnic is another game called The Coach, in which the party represent among them the chief parts and appendages of a coach, with the driver, guard, and passengers. Every time either person or thing is men- tioned, its representative rises and turns, as in the game last described. The narrator gives an account of the incidents of a coach journey, interspersing it with such episodes as an attack by highwaymen or a toss over in the snow. A third game of a very similar description is known as The Traveller, the story in this case relating to the arrival of a traveller at an inn, and the various orders he givds, with their execution. GARDENING.—XL THE VEGETABLE GARDEN {continuedfrom p. Garden Walls.—The height of walls is more commonly determined by the size of the garden and the slope of its surface, than with a view to the training of fruit trees. A small spot enclosed with high walls has a gloomy appearance, but if the walls are built of different heights, this will be considerably relieved. In a garden of an acre, or thereabouts, square in shape, and slightly elevated, the north wall may be raised to fourteen feet; the east and west walls to twelve feet; and the south wall to ten feet above the surface of the ground. If the garden is larger^ the walls may be a trifle higher. The extreme height of the north wall of any garden should not exceed eighteen feet, the east and west walls fifteen, and the south wall twelve. The terms tiorth and south wall denote the north and south sides of the garden ; but in speaking of wall-fruit, if it be said a tree requires a south wall, it must be understood to mean a wall with a south aspect. The north wall, by being raised higher, shelters the garden from the northern blast, and it affords ample space for training the finer sorts of fruit trees on the south side of the wall. Soutlr aspects are generally deemed the best for fruit trees, but we prefer an aspect a few points to the east. It may possibly be argued by some that the hottest part of the day is the afternoon, and that the sun shines stronger at that time than in the morning, and so it does, but it is not so healthy, as the great heat of the sun causes the trees to exhale their juices faster than their roots can absorb them, which will cause the fruit to be smaller, the pulp harder and worse flavoured. On the other hand, an aspect towards the south-east will catch the sun’s rays