T04 COOKERY. lid off, and with only just water enough to cover it, till the cabbage is tender. Stir now and then, to prevent its sticking to the bottom, and if the liquor evaporates too much, fill up with hot water. Contrive, when the cabbage is done, to have just enough liquor left to moisten it. Then bury in the cooked cabbage a pound or more of uncooked sausages. Put the lid close down on the sauce- pan, to keep in the heat and vapour; let them stew, not too slowly, shaking them now and then, for twenty or five-and-twenty minutes. Have ready, on a hot dish, a thickish round of toasted bread. Take the sausages out of the cabbage with a spoon, and arrange them in a row on the toast. Squeeze the cabbage in the saucepan with the back of your spoon, and pour the liquor over the sausages and toast. Then serve the cabbage, neatly piled on another hot dish. This dish has the advantage of being easily heated up again, when it is quite as good as at first. If no sausages are left when the cabbage is warmed-up again, spread it in a layer on a dish, and on it put a few poached or fried eggs, or three or four slices of toasted bacon. Eppmg Sausages.—Take sage, thyme, and especially knotted marjoram, if you can get it. If they have been splashed with earth or sand by the rain, as often happens, you must wash them thoroughly clean, and let them dry in a current of air. When quite dry, strip the leaves from the stalks, and chop them very fine together. Mix a small quantity of this thoroughly with the chopped sausage-meat (which should be seasoned with allspice and nutmeg) before putting it into the skins. The dose of this will depend upon taste; at the first trial, it is better not to overdo it. These aromatic herbs can be dried in a slow oven, rubbed between the palms to a powder, and kept in bottles for future use. In a fresh state, a very small proportion of parsley and chervil may be mixed with them. Roast Pork and Potatoes, Fried Whole.—The pig must be scalded, not singed. Take a good piece of the loin or spare rib, score the skin, to make nice “ crackle,” and let out the fat. Roast it before the fire, over a catch-pan. Take middle-sized or small potatoes ; first wash and dry, then peel them, so as not to have to wash them after peeling ; wipe them dry with a napkin. When the pork is roasted, pour the fat into a small deep saucepan ; set it on the fire ; when quite hot, fry the potatoes in it to a light clear brown. The fat will serve again, or for other pur- poses. Haricot M-ntton.—Take the chump end of the neck, or the breast, of mutton ; cut it up into small pieces, of a size to be helped with a spoon. Set them on the fire, in just enough water to keep them from burning. Keep turning them about in this, till they are half-cooked and nicely browned. Then take them out and lay them on a dish. To the gravy remaining in the saucepan, add more water, with flour, pepper, salt, and a sprig of thyme and parsley. Stir these well together, then return your mutton to the saucepan. After it has boiled a few minutes, put in some peeled potatoes (whole, if small, halved, if large), a carrot sliced, a turnip the same, and either small onions whole, or large ones sliced. When the vegetables are cooked, your mutton is ready. Serve the whole together on the same dish. You may lay slices of toasted bread, as sippets, at the bottom of, or round, the dish. They will make it both more sightly and more plentiful. Pigd Fry is much nicer, tenderer, and more econo- mical, baked than fried. Into a large pudding-basin, put sliees of the heart and liver, pieces of the chitter- ling “frill,” and spleen, intermixed with sliced onions, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and allspice. Cover them with water, in which a little flour has been care- fully mixed; put a plate on the top, and set in the oven till sufficiently cooked. Pigd Liver.—Open the liver, by cutting it in halves horizontally, but without detaching the separate por- tions. Lay it thus open on a dish, season it with pepper and salt, and pour over it a little oiled butter ; let it so remain a quarter of an hour. Then spread over it equally a stuffing made of bacon, chopped parsley, and shalot, or whatever other stuffing suits your taste and judgment. Then close the liver, and wrap it in caul, or “leaf,” or thin internal sheet-fat of a pig or calf. Lay this in a deep dish, with a slice of bacon under and upon it ; cover it closely with another dish over it, and set in a gentle oven. When done, take it out of the leaf-fat, and serve it with its own gravy, relieved by a little vinegar. Black (a much-approved recipe).—Have ready well cleansed pigs’ entrails, exactly the same as are used for containing sausages. Keep them steeped in cold water, until you want them. To one pint of fresh-drawn, pigs’ Ijlood, take three pints of onions ; chop them toler- ably fine, and cook them till they are nearly or three- quarters done, in a saucepan, with the least drop of water at the bottom, stirring them all the while, to prevent them browning. Take two pounds of fresh pork, without bone,, fat and lean in equal proportions; chop it up fine. Mix well together the minced pork, the onions, and the pigs’ blood, seasoning with salt, pepper, and allspice, or mixed spices ground together. Tie one end of your sausage-skin, and, by means of a funnel or sausage-stuffer, fill it at the other with the mixed ingredients. Then tie the upper end of your pudding, coil it in the desired shape, or tie it into short lengths, and throw it into boiling water, which you will keep galloping for twenty or five- and-twenty minutes, according to the thickness of the pudding. Then take it out, and set aside to cool. So prepared, it will keep good two or three days in summer, a week in winter. When wanted to serve, you may broil it gently over a slow fire ; but this requires care,, to prevent the skin from cracking. A better way is to set it a few minutes in the oven of a cooking-stove, or in a Dutch or American oven, in front of an open kitchen-range. Pigd Head, Boiled with Vegetables.—Tak*e half a pig’s head (without the brains and tongue), put it inta an earthen vessel, with half a pound of coarse salt, and leave it three or four days, turning it frequently, and basting it with the brine that forms. Put it into a soup- kettle, with six quarts of cold water; bring it to a boil, skim, add pepper, shred onions, cabbage, and celery; let it simmer over a gentle fire, and add potatoes three- quarters of an hour before serving dinner. Then taste if the broth is salt enough ; soak with it some bread in your soup-tureen ; pour the broth over it. Drain the head, and serve it, accompanied by the cabbage and potatoes- With a little pea-powder, previously steeped, and a boil up after mixing it, you can convert the broth into pea- soup. Pumpkin and Rice Soup.—Wash in cold water the quantity of rice required to make your soup; set it on the fire in cold water, let it boil till nearly done enough, set it aside. Pare your pumpkin, and cut it into bits as big as a walnut; put it in a saucepan with two or three sliced onions, one or two cloves, a leaf each of celery and parsley, a trifle each of pepper, salt, and sugar, and amply sufficient water to make your soup. Boil till you can crush the onions and pumpkin to a mash ; mash them well with a large wooden ladle ; pour all through a cullender, to strain off the fibrous portions. Then set the strained puree on the fire again ; add to it the boiled rice and a good bit of butter, and keep stirring (to mix well, and prevent sticking to the bottom) until the rice is tender. Then serve, and you will have an e-xeellent autumnal soup. There is no reason why, instead of water, you should not use any good meat or poultry-broth (not salt) which you happen to have.