291 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. feathers on the outside of the wing ; and at the point B, by using a fine needle, and passing it through the stalk of each first feather. In this way, nothing will be seen from the outside. This last tie will also form a means of hanging the screen up, if desired, by means of a pin driven into the wall. The head should now be put on, and for this purpose, take it off the board, and pull out all the wool as far as the skull, taking care not to soften the hardened skin, or displace the feathers ; sharpen a piece of copper bell-wire to a fine point, and inserting it up the neck-bore through the skull, holding the pigeon’s head in the palm of your hand, until the wire comes out at the top of the head. The advantage of stuffing the skull firmly will now appear, as it will give it solidity, and, though it may add to the labour of boring, will make the head more compact and secure than if left empty. The extreme end of the wire may now be turned down with a small pair of pincers, and the wire withdrawn, till the turned end is hidden amongst the feathers. Then replace the cotton wool, taking care to bend the wire to the shape, and, as far as possible, to keep it in the centre of the neck; and, having bored a hole in the millboard to match the position of the wire, glue the millboard and the edges of the skin of the breast, pass the wire through, press the head close down, and then turn the wire on the other side, tying it also to one of the wing-bones, or to some of the strings by which the wings were fastened on. To complete the screen, the wing coverts are glued on, side by side, on the inside of the wings, to cover the bones and fastenings, making their upper ends just cover the tie A; and at the other ends, if they are not quite neat in them- selves, a small bow of ribbon may be glued on afterwards. All this may seem difficult, but very little practice will soon render it easy. At a future time we may have something to say on the kinds of birds best fitted for screens, and their different treatment from the above; on the way of obtaining them ; and the season of the year when they are in their best plumage. MAKING SWEETMEATS. Candied HoreJiound.—Take some horehound and boil it till the juice is extracted, when sugar, which has been previously boiled until candied, must be added to it. Stir the compound over the fire until it thickens. Pour it out into a paper case dusted over with fine sugar, and cut it into squares or any other shapes desired. Peppermmt Drops.—A brass or block-tin saucepan must be rubbed over inside with a little butter. Put into it half a pound of crushed lump sugar with a table- spoonful or so of water. Place it over the fire, and let it boil briskly for ten minutes, when a dessert-spoonful of essence of peppermint is to be stirred into it. It may then be let fall in drops upon writing paper, or poured out upon plates which have been rubbed over with butter. Ginger Drops.—Mix one ounce of prepared ginger with one pound of loaf sugar ; beat to a paste two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar. Put the above into a brass or block-tin saucepan with a little water. Stir them all well, and boil until they are suffi- ciently amalgamated, which will be when the mixture thickens like ordinary candied sugar. Pour out on writing paper in drops, or on plates as for peppermint drops. Letnon Drops.— Grate three large lemons ; then take a large piece of best lump sugar and reduce it to a powder. Mix the sugar and lemon on a plate with half a tea- spoonful of flour, and beat the compound with the white of an egg until it forms a light paste. It must then be placed in drops on a clean sheet of writing paper, and placed before the fire—to dry hard rather than to bake. Damson Drops.—Take some damsons and bake them without breaking them. Remove the skins and stones, and reduce them to a fine pulp by pressing them through a sieve. Sift upon the pulp some crushed lump sugar, and mix it with a knife or spatula until it becomes stiff. Place it upon writing paper in the form of drops; put them in a gentle oven to dry, and when dry take them out and turn them on a sieve. Then wet the paper, and the drops will separate from it, after which they are again to be placed in a very slack oven, and dried until they are hard. They are placed in layers in a box with paper between each layer, and in that way will keep well, if air and damp are excluded. Raspberry Drops.—Gently boil some raspberries with a little water, and then remove the skins and seeds, after which a pulpy juice will remain. To one pound of this juice add the whites of two eggs and one pound of sifted lump sugar, well beat up together. The addition must be gradu- ally made, and the mixture well beat up for a couple of hours. When arrived at a proper degree of consistency, the composition is to be placed in large drops upon paper slightly rubbed over with butter. They may be dried either in a warm sun or before a slow fire, but not hastily. A larger raspberry drop or lozenge is made as follows :—Take of raspberries two or three pounds, and boil them slowly, stirring them until there is little or no juice left; then put into the saucepan as much moist or crusted sugar as there was fruit at first; mix the two off the fire, and when thoroughly incorporated spread the compound upon plates—china or ironstone are best—and let it dry either in the sun or before a slow fire. When the top is dried, stamp or cut into small cakes of any shape you choose ; set these again down to dry, and when ready lay them in boxes, with a sheet of paper between each layer. Like all similar pre- parations, they are best kept quite free from all damp ; and, therefore, tin boxes, with closely-fitting lids, are better than any other. At the same time more depends upon the dryness of the place they are kept in than upon the material of the box. CHILDREN’S DRESS.—VI. children’s clothing {continuedprom p. 2pi). The best out-door dress for a child two years to four years old is a pelisse and cape. In winter it is warm and comfortable, and it always has this advantage—if a child makes its frock dirty in the house, the pelisse is fresh and clean for out of doors. In very cold weather it is put on over the frock, or frock and pinafore ; in warmer weather the frock is removed. In winter, serge or merino or velveteen are good substances for pelisses ; in spring, fancy mixtures of wool and cotton ; and in summer, pretty prints, brown holland, plain linen, and checked muslins and whsie pique's. To take a pattern for a child’s pelisse and dress. To cut a Cape.—Take a small newspaper, as it lies, folded in four. We assume it to measure twelve and a half inches long from A to B, Fig. 74. Fold the corner B back to c. The fold will come at the dotted line A to D. Cut the paper at the dotted line from D to c. Turn the paper over and cut another piece like the first, or, rather, continue the cut from D to C along the back of the paper, as shown in Fig. 75, at the dotted line E to F. You have now two squares in one, marked G and H in Fig. 75. Fold these exactly together, as at Fig. 86, one square; fold again i to J, at the dotted line K to L. The piece of paper is now the shape of Fig. SyT Cut it with a slight circular slope from O to P and M to N, taking care that it is as long from O to M as from P to N. Then open it, and it will resemble a half-circle (Fig. 73). It may be folded in half again, and sloped by the slanting line shown by dots at A and R from the centre