HOUSE-HUNTING. lOO all round, and yet in the suburbs few need be without a garden in the rear. As everybody loves flowers, everybody will desire such a garden. We say “ loves flowers,” for a kitchen-garden is not in every case possible near the metropolis. Flowers and evergreens and ornamental trees can be selected for all situations, and a small garden is not necessarily expensive, while it may afford pleasure and opportunities for exercise. If a house has a garden, its condition should be noted, and it will be borne in mind that a garden to a new house is too often a mass of rubbish. There may be no paths, or none properly made and gravelled ; or there may be no flower-beds, or none with more than a sprinkling of soil over brickbats and mortar, and the like. Now, if a garden does not cost much to keep, it costs something to make, and he who has to pay for the first laying-out of such a garden as we have described, will be suffering for others’ faults. “ A pound saved is a pound gained,” and this is never more true than in the matter of a garden. Surely it is as much the duty of a landlord to provide gravel paths to a garden as floors to a house, and it is nothing short of dishonesty to carry away the soil, and thus to force a tenant to buy more to put in its place. If there are any out-offices, see that they are what they profess to be ; that the so-called stable and coach-house, for example, are fit to contain a horse and a vehicle larger than a perambulator or a bicycle. The cabins which are advertised for stables and coach-houses are too often ridiculous. Without going further into these details, it must be a fundamental principle with one who seeks a house in or near a great city, or anywhere else, to ascertain what he requires and can afford. If in business, the house must not be at too great a distance, nor of difficult access, in- volving serious outlay of time or of money, or of both. If with limited income, or quiet and domestic habits, a house is not to be too large. Nobody ought to take a smaller house than he requires for comfortable occupa- tion, if he can afford to pay for it. As a general rule, it should be borne in mind that it is bad to get a house either too large or too small. Another question which house-seekers should put is as to the character of particular localities. They may, if they like, ask whether such a street is fashionable or un- fashionable, but they will surely ascertain whether it is respectable or not. Everybody knows that some neigh- bourhoods are not in good odour, and that, in consequence, they are gradually deserted by persons of real respec- tability, and commodious houses become inhabited by an inferior class at a lower rent. However, it is to be observed that the scale of rental varies in localities respecting the character of which no objection is raised. Some of the suburbs of London are more expensive for rent and living than others, although not more healthy and respectable. Parishes in which rents are moderate, and living cheap, very often contain an additional number of poor, and in actual practice it may be found that what is gained in rent and other items—especially provisions—is lost in rates and taxes. The inequality in taxes is remarkable, and therefore every man who is about to take a house should obtain, in writing, a list of the taxes to which it is liable, the amount at which it is assessed, and the actual sums it has paid or would have paid for a year past. Many persons get annoyed by discoveries in this direction which might have been made earlier, and avoided. Those who go to buy a house may fall into even greater mistakes. For instance, a house is to be sold for ^750 in one place, and elsewhere the same, or one very similar, can be bought for ;^6oo. Supposing the houses are equal, and the localities equal, and the leases equal, the house at £600 may be the dearest. The purchaser may discover that his extra ground rent alone is more than interest upon the differ- ence between the prices of the houses. Attention will have to be given, therefore, to other points than rent and price when houses are taken for a term, or the lease purchased. Long as our list of precautions has been, it is by no means complete ; but it is impossible in any paper on this subject to specify everything which in various circumstances may demand attention from an intend- ing tenant. Our object in specifying these has been to exhibit a summary view of the points to which house-seekers should direct their attention. We have had in our mind rather thus far those who would rent than those who would buy a residence, although we have dropped a few hints which the would-be buyers may turn to account. Far less need be said about choosing a residence in a small town or village, although even there, there are sundry evils to be guarded against. The reputation of the place generally should be ascertained, and if it be not considered a healthy one it should be avoided. In any case, the situation selected should not be too low or confined; it ought not to be damp, nor in close proximity to standing waters, nor to be near any manu- facture or occupation from which noxious gases and bad smells might rise. To choose a house on the top of a hill is not always wise ; for, unless the constitution be strong, exposure to cold winds and fogs and rapid changes of temperature will be hard to bear, and productive of mis- chief. A moderate elevation is best, and if there be a slope it should be gradual and not steep. Much also depends upon the subsoil; if tenacious, like clay, the water which falls will not percolate through it, but run off near the surface, and a house upon such a slope will suffer, of necessity. If, however, the side of the hill be sand, gravel, or stratified rock, there will be less danger. But in all cases, the soil in the immediate vicinity of the house should be flat; not higher at the back walls than at the front, and properly drained, especially at the rear of the building. It is always well for ordinary persons to secure them- selves against violent and cold winds, as the north, north- east, and east. Therefore, houses exposed to these winds should not be chosen ; those with an aspect ranging from south-east to west are usually preferable, especially if sheltered on the other side by high ground or trees. When gardens and orchards either slope towards the south, or are open on that side, they will produce earlier and better crops. Houses at the sea-side are to be chosen with regard to corresponding advantages, although when they are only visited for a temporary sojourn little is thought of the house, the greatest part of the time being spent out of doors. Wherever a permanent residence is in view in a small town or the open country, it will be necessary not only to ascertain in general all the peculiarities of soil, climate, aspect, &c., but also facilities of access. Good roads are important ; and now that travelling is so common, it is of importance to be within convenient distance of a railway-station. Another point is the cost and ready procurableness of coal, provisions, and whatever else is required for domestic consumption, and not pro- duced in the garden. Water is simply a necessity, and cannot be dispensed with, and it ought to be abundant at all seasons, and good. In some places, otherwise de- sirable, water is plentiful in autumn and on to mid- summer, and then so scanty as almost to fail. With regard to the quality, nothing need be said to prove that bad water, as mere surface drainage, or springs charged with certain mineral substances, is an unmitigated evil ; you cannot be too particular in_ this matter. Finally, wherever a residence is erected or provided, care should be taken that it is supplied with all needful domestic offices, that it should have a pleasant look-out, and that it should neither be in a lonely wilderness nor in a close and