THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDRE: and is entitled to all wealth which has no known owners or heirs. As the “ fountain of honour and privilege,” the Sovereign alone confers titles, dignities, and various high distinctions, including ministerial offices. He pays no toll nor tax, and cannot hold lands of a subject, because such things would imply a certain inferiority. As head of the Church, while he may not alter the established religion, nor forsake the profession of it, the Sovereign may reform abuses and appoint fasts and thanksgivings, appoints bishops and archbishops, and has many other powers and rights as to the disposal of benefices, the calling of synods, the publication of Prayer-books, and the copyright of the authorised version of the Bible. As head of the Parliament, the Sovereign' alone makes laws of the Bills which are passed by the Lords and Commons. No other can summon a Parliament, or prorogue, or dissolve one. By person or by deputy he must be present at the opening of every session. He appoints the Speaker of the House of Lords by commis- sion, and must approve the Speaker of the Commons. Additions to the peers are made by him at his will. In public documents the Sovereign uses the plural number of the first person “ we,” “ us,” “ our,” and he is said to be King—By the grace of God. The principal titles of her present Majesty are : “ Her Most Excellent Majesty, Victoria, by the Grace of God Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland; Defender of the Faith ; Sovereign of the Most Noble Order of the Garter ; of the Most Ancient Order of the Thistle; of the Most Illustrious Order of St. Patrick,” &c. The Ionian Islands were formerly mentioned in the Queen’s titles, but of course the reference is now dropped. Her Majesty is not styled Sovereign of France, as several of her pre- decessors were, but she has assumed the title of Empress of India, though it is not to be used in Great Britain and Ireland. The Queen does not wear official robes except on her visit to Parliament, when she wears red; and on her coronation, when she proceeded to the Abbey in crimson, and was there invested with the purple. As Sovereign of the Order of the Garter, her Majesty wears the riband over the left shoulder, the badge and stars of the order —the two latter set in diamonds, and an armlet with the motto of the order on her left arm. At such times her Majesty generally wears a circlet of diamonds on her head. When the reigning Sovereign is a king, and is married, the queen consort enjoys various privileges and preroga- tives, and the same is true of a queen dowager, but we may dispense with an account of them. In the case of a queen regnant, her husband is invested with very high dignities, but does not share in the Sovereign power. For example, the late Prince Consort enjoyed no regal prerogatives. THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN.—II. THE NURSERY. The aspect of a day-nursery should be light, airy, and, if attainable, exposed to the south. It is impossible to over-estimate the worth of this situation in the attempt to rear children in full health and buoyancy of spirit. The ruddy bloom of a well-trained child betokens some- thing more than a sound constitution—it indicates a joyous temperament and keen enjoyment of life. Children immured in gloomy apartments never wear this look. In all save their clothing they are liable to resemble the ill-fed population of crowded cities, whose playground is the nearest gutter. Doctors agree that the best place for children is the upper part of a house, where the air circulates more freely, and the odours of the basement are less penetrat- ing. Not that nurseries should be in what is termed the “ roof of the house ; ” still less should a child’s playroom have a sloping ceiling, such as attic apartments too often have. What children require is, a cheerful prospect without, and an airy, roomy space to romp in. The custom, which is gradually gaining ground, of converting the breakfast-room on the basement-floor of suburban villas into day-nurseries, is very objectionable. One can quite understand that want of space and insufficiency of attendance often render these arrangements arbitrary; but the error invariably discovers itself in time in the increased want felt for stimulating food tonics, and other remedies for enfeebled constitutions. In case of an outbreak of any infectious complaint, such as fever, measles, whooping-cough, &c., the sick child should retain possession of the nursery, or some room on that upper floor (as infection always ascends), and the other children should be given a temporary nursery on a lower floor, every article of clothing, bedding, curtains, and carpets being removed at the same time. It should always be remembered that children are more susceptible of infection than grown people. The maid in attendance on the sick child should never attend in the nursery of the other children. The Furniture of nurseries requires a few words of comment. The bare necessaries of comfortable living are all that should be admitted into apartments where space and cleanliness are indispensable. A large room full of furniture is less healthy than a small one scantily fitted up. Beginning with the walls ; It would perhaps shock most people to tell them that the very best walls for a nursery are those which are simply plastered and whitewashed. Every year, in the spring, the whitewash may be renewed at trifling cost, doing away with the harbour for fleas and more objectionable insects. Next in fitness is a painted wall, admitting of easy cleansing when required. Equal in excellence is marbled paper varnished, like that of halls and staircases of modem houses. Bedding is an important question, particularly if there be many children to provide for. If possible, each child should sleep alone; never with its nurse. Small iron l:)edsteads are best; but where there are many children, especially little ones, it will be a good plan to have wickerwork cradles, made in the shape of the bassinet without the hood. A basket of this description, measuring three feet two inches at the bottom and two feet two inches wide, will be capable of containing a child till three years of age, at which time he may be quartered in some other apartment. The advantage these basket-work bedsteads have is that the bedding may be removed from the nursery by day, and put elsewhere to air, and the baskets themselves stowed away one upon another till wanted. Horsehair mattresses are the best if the expense can be afforded. They are best because they admit of being easily unpicked and put together again. It is only necessary to unpick the “ tabs,” and empty the horsehair into a washing-tub filled with soap and water. When it has been thoroughly washed, together with the casing, it is as good and sweet as new. Every one acquainted with nursery management will be aware of the necessity for such cleansing. An excellent addition to the amount of bedding allowed will be under-mattresses of dry chaff. These are very inexpensive, can be made at home, and may be easily renewed. They are warm and springy. Here and there a tab will add to their evenness. Bolsters made of the same are comfortable and economical. For very young infants, especially when teething, a cot pillow-case of washleather, filled with horsehair, will be most suitable. N ursery bedding should not be aired in the same room