FURNITURE. in which the objects do not require so much space to move in. When it is intended to place the aquarium some distance from the window, the hexagonal shape, Fig. 3, is often chosen as the most ornamental; but this is also better adapted for marine than fresh-water specimens. Having selected the shape of the aquarium, the next consideration is the place it should occupy, which in most cases will be in front of a window. The best situation is a window looking towards the east, where it will get the morning sun for about two hours. The mid-day sun is too hot. If you have not a window looking to the east, give it a southern aspect, but be careful to shade off the noonday sun ; a northern aspect is never good for an aquarium ; a western is seriously bad. The great point Fig. 2. is to keep up an equal temperature as much as possible, the range being from 45° to 65° Fahr. This may be done by opening the window in summer, and by drawing back the tank from the window on winter evenings. On no account should the water be allowed to freeze. Not only do you risk the bursting of your tank, but the fish and plants will droop and die. It is a matter of importance that the admission of light and heat should be properly regulated, and that they Fig. 3- should be admitted only through the surface of the water. To accomplish this, in the case of bell-glasses or tanks with glass ends and back, thin green paper should be pasted over all the glass except the front, up to the water-line ; by this means the light is subdued, besides which the objects in the aquarium will always present a better and more natural appearance if the light is ad- mitted at the top. The temporary aquaria in the gardens of the Paris Exhibition of 1867—a most successful experi- ment of its kind—were all constructed on this principle, and presented an exceedingly beautiful appearance. The admission of light through the opposite side or end of a tank will produce an excessive growth of vegetation, and cause the accumulation of a green film on the front, that will, in a short time, obscure the contents of the aquarium from view. Having made or planned your aquarium, you must prepare the bed of your pond. The first thing is to get some river sand, or fine gravel, cleanse it thoroughly till the water runs from it quite clear, and then lay it in the bottom of the tank to the thickness of an inch at least; over this, in places, lay small pebbles ; if you want a rock-work or miniature caverns, pile up small blocks of granite, fastening them together with the best Portland cement; other cements are liable to taint the water and injure the fish, and even this should be allowed to remain in water for a week, in order that it may part with any soluble matter it may contain. Having laid your sand and gravel, and built your rockery, let the cement get firm, then add the water, and empty and refill it till the water is perfectly clear, when it will be in a proper condition to receive the plants intended to be introduced. FURNITURE.—I. GENERAL REMARKS. On the correctness of the taste displayed in furnishing a house, or only a few rooms, depends altogether the air of comfort which either will wear, and a corresponding degree of pleasure or discomfort to those who live in them. Often on entering a strange room one feels a sense of 1 indescribable irritability, arising either from the incon- gruity of the furniture as regards size, style, and general ornamentation, or from the inharmonious colouring of the draperies, the confusion of pattern on the carpet, or the dazzling design of the wall-paper, not dazzling from its brilliancy, but from the regular and close recurrence of stripes, circles, and other geometrical forms, which be- wilder the sight as if the pattern were in motion. The proper furnishing of a house is as much a fine art as painting, and if the rules do not come by an intuitive faculty they may be acquired. The glaring defects in modern house-furnishing are, first, incongruity of form and size of furniture with the surroundings and means of the pos- sessor, and next, an elaborate decoration of the rooms out of keeping with the position of the owner. And the third is the elaboration of ornament on the furniture, this not being superadded to utility, but subversive of it—ornament being understood to mean a superfluity above utility— permanently fixed or carved upon the article. Decoration means something portable, as vases, glasses, and pictures. The walls of a room covered with an appropriate wall- paper, a ceiling elaborately worked in moulded forms, as well as its cornices, and carved or beaded doors, are said to be ornamental. The meanings of the two words are verj^ distinct. A person may be decorated with a feather, but is not thereby rendered more ornamental. A man’s own fine head of hair is an ornament—it is irremovable by ordinary means—but his medals and jewellery are decorations. Elaboration of ornament and decoration, in a house of great pretension but with small means to support it, is not a mark of good taste, neither is confusion of colour ; when blues and greens, reds and violets, are indiscrimi- nately mingled. The treatment of the walls in small houses at a rental of £,20 to ^50 per annum is usually very unsatisfactory. In the suburbs of large towns the rooms of such houses are generally small; thus a large-patterned paper will cause them to appear much smaller, and the use of a border will produce an apparent decrease in their height. The return to fashion of the wainscot, or dado, is of