311 • CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. Hare Soiip.—Take a fine hare, skin and empty it, saving the blood, the liver, and the heart. Cut it up into joints, take the eyes from the head, and split it. Cut two pounds of shin of beef into pieces ; put these with the marrow-bone, the jointed hare, its blood, &c., into a boiler containing a gallon of cold water. Set it on the fire, and skim. When it boils throw in three or four onions halved across, two or three carrots sliced, a few peppercorns and cloves. As soon as the hare is tender, take out all the best joints, remove the meat from the bones, cut them into shapely mouthful-pieces, return the bones to the soup, and let it boil till all the goodness is got out of them and the beef. H'alf an hour before that time, throw in a bunch of sweet herbs and a small stick of celery. By putting in aromatic seasonings too soon, they are driven off with the vapour and are lost to the soup. While the sweet herbs are communicating their flavour, fry chopped onions in butter, brown and thicken with a little flour, moisten with a ladleful of soup, and add it to the rest. Then ladle the whole through a large-holed cullender, so as to remove bones, remains of meat and vegetables, &c. Add the bits of hare-meat, and let them simmer in the soup till heated through. Season with salt, and serve. A little red wine may be added ; if so, it should be mixed in at the last moment. If soup is salted at an early period, it is apt to become too salt by boiling down, by which it is spoiled and made uneatable. Hare soup may be height- ened either with a little anchovy sauce mixed in a basin with a ladleful of soup, or with a couple of tablespoonfuls of mushroom catchup. People who object to the “blood” mentioned in this receipt, will not know it is there unless you tell them. In Northern Italy, when poultry are killed the blood that comes from them is caught in cups, and sold for making soups and ragouts. Pea Soup, Puree of Dried Peas.—Steep the peas {whether whole or split) overnight in soft water (rain water if you can get it); set them on to boil in the soft water, cold. When tender, crush them with a wooden spoon through a cullender. For broth you may take almost any—beef, veal, or fowl. The boilings from salt meats are often employed, but we do not recommend them. Take rather a couple of hocks of pork that have been salted not more than three or four days. Use their boilings with the addition of other stock. To this put iht. puree of peas, with a turnip chopped small and plenty of shredded celery. Boil till these are nearly tender. Then put in a good bunch of sweet herbs, and season with pepper. Before serving, remove the sweet herbs only. Send up accompanied by toasted bread- dice. Dry sage leaves in a very slow oven ; rub them to a powder between your hands. Send up this powder in a small dish, for each guest to dust into his soup. It will keep for some time in a well-corked bottle. You may cut spoon-meat pieces of the hocks of pork, and throw them into the soup, like the calf’s head in mock turtle. There are prepared pea-flours for making Hasty Pea Soup. They are convenient, and save considerable trouble, but the soup is smoother if the pea-flour is steeped overnight. Green Pea Soup.—Green pea soup may be only a sim- plification of Julienne, i.e., green peas cooked in a good stock or consommd Cabbage Soup (Maigre).—Put your shredded cabbage and other vegetables into a soup-kettle of boiling water, with a few peppercorns and cloves ; add a couple of handfuls of chopped sorrel. Fry onions light brown in butter, and mix them with the soup. When all is quite tender, season with salt. You may make it milk cabbage soup, by adding one-half, one-third, or less than that quantity of milk Put a large teacupful of bread-crumbs at the bottom of your tureen. After the last boil up, ladle the soup over it, and serve. Small Onion Soup.—Take a large soup-plateful of small onions, such as you would use for pickling ; peel them carefully, then toss them in a sfewpan in butter, with a dust of sugar. When they are nicely browned, gra- dually stir in over them the necessary quantity of stock- broth. Give them a boil, season with pepper and salt, put fried bread into your tureen, and pour the soup over them. This is one of the soups which has the advantage of not taking a long time to make when once the onions are peeled. Broth from Essences atid Extracts of Meat.—As prepa- rations of meat called essences or extracts are now largely introduced, and are attracting considerable public atten- tion, we should be wrong in omitting to mention them here. Their great merit is their convenience, and the almost instantaneous promptness with which a basin of soup can be served. The essence must be selected and prepared with some care and judgment. If the dose is too large, the broth becomes unpalatable. This subject has recently received much attention from members of the medical profession and others, various opinions having been expressed, but we nevertheless think our readers, like ourselves, will prefer relying on an able medical opinion like that of Dr. Edward Smith than on their own unsupported. These essences are prepared from fresh meat in such a manner that the fibre and fat are left behind, only the ozmazome (or flavouring property), certain salts, and a very small quantity of albumen, remain. The quality of this food is determined by the first-mentioned substance, and with a teaspoonful of the essence about a pint of broth may be made, which, although thi?i to the»palate, is as full of the flavour of meat as when beef-tea is prepared at home. The salts are not perceptible to the senses, but they consist, in part, of phosphates, and are very valuable. The albumen is necessarily in very small quantity, from the small amount of the extract of meat which is used. Liebig’s essence of meat, however, is a valuable addition to a traveller’s stores, since it occupies a very small space, and with hot water he may at any time prepare a basin of soup in two minutes which would be more useful to him than any other fluid. It is particularly suited to those who abstain from intoxicating drinks. But when it is affirmed that one ounce of the essence, although derived from thirty ounces of beef, contains, nevertheless, the nutritive parts of the larger quantity, we hesitate to endorse the statement. A considerable amount of fibre, with fibrin, gelatine, fat, and some albumen, is left behind. That fibre is digestible is proved by the fact that in fresh meat it is nearly all digested; that it is highly nutritious is proved by its chemical composition. Hence, where health exists it is best not to throw away this material. That it will not alone support life is true ; the salts necessary to life, and fat highly important to life, are absent from it; but that does not in the least prove that it is not of great value as part of a dietary. When one teaspoonful of the essence has been dissolved in about a pint of hot water, and seasoned with pepper and salt, it forms an agreeable and stimulating beverage, but should not be regarded as food for every-day use. In this respect it must be ranked with tea and coffee. It may be advan- tageously thickened by adding a little sago; and vermicelli, macaroni, and various Italian pastes, are agreeable and proper additions. Its proper place is that of a luxury, and in some states of disease it is also a valuable food; but in health, tire quantity of nutriment is too small to be computed, and its action upon nutrition is rather in- direct, by stimulating the vital actions, than direct, by supplying food. For ordinary use it is better for the house- wife to make beef-tea from shins of beef, so as to obtain much gelatine, or from gravy beef, and to serve up the solid part as food at the same meal. Our continental neighbours eat their bouilli and potage at the same meal ,* and so should we.