CHILDREN’S DRESS. 178 It is, generally speaking, an unthrifty plan for a young mother to cut up her baby’s long robing and underskirts to short-coat it. If her family increase, these long gar- ments will be ready for new visitors, and it only takes two- thirds of the material to make the little frocks and petti- coats afterwards. It is one comfort, where economy is needed, to know that the expense of clothing the first baby will cover the cost of two, or even three more, and the first trouble, too, will be sufficient for all ; and only a few renewals will be wanted in the wardrobe. The expe- diency of keeping the flannels is doubtful, because new flannel is better than old for this purpose. There is a better way of making babies’ flannels than either of those we have yet given ; but many mothers object to the pleated flannel body as too warm and weakening for the infant. The body is a plain piece, fifteen inches long and eight wide; double it in half the narrow way at A A, Fig. 55, and cut out the half circles for arm-holes at B B. Bind it all round with white ribbon or flannel binding, and after the skirt has been added, sew on strings at c C C, about three inches from the edge, and the other side at the edge at D D D. This allows the body to wrap over in front. The back breadth of the skirt of the flannel is gored away each side to six and a half inches at the top—the half being allowed for the skirt seam—and the front breadth to nine and a half inches. The front breadth is split open down the centre. The two breadths of flannel are run and felled together before this slit is made. Next bind it all round, waist and all, then sew the waist of the flannel to the waist of the body. Tie the skirt together, with ends of ribbon sewn on for the purpose. Flannel can be bought with the edge worked with coloured silk to use for babies’ clothing. The cape of the baby’s cloak must also be used alone when the child is short-coated. Most likely the entire cloak will require remaking and cleaning for a new baby, and therefore it is well to wear out the cape in this manner. Short frocks, or, as they are called, three-quarter frocks, which are first used for babies, measure about half a yard long in the skirt, and are added to eight-inch deep bodies. After a month or two, a few more tucks are run in these skirts, to enable the child to walk freely. The “short coat ” of a delicate infant should be five-eighths long in the skirt in cold weather; and their reduction in length should be very gradual. Plain muslin frocks neatly hemmed are quite sufficient for short frocks, but where it is desired to have them handsomer in appearance, they may be made like long frocks as regards the embroidery. Both for the three-quarter dresses and the quite short ones, many mothers use pretty light fine-printed cambrics or white pique ; or, in winter, merino or plaid. All babies’ frocks are now completely gored on both sides of the front breadth, which is set into the body perfectly plain at the waist. The back breadth may be plain, and set into the waist gathered. Two widths generally suffice to form an infant’s dress, but should more be employed, the side one would also be sloped away in the seams toward the front. A very handsome frock for a baby may be made of muslin, the gored front breadths made of rows of machine tucks upright, and placed between bars of embroidered insertion. This entablicr front, as it is called, is edged all round with insertion, outside which there is a robing of vandyked work, also carried all round, and forming a robing continued from the braces on the body. These braces go straight across the back of the body like a berthe, as shown in Fig. 51. The back of the body is simply plain, a little full, and drawn slightly at the neck and waist into the worked bands. It is a plain unsloped piece of muslin. All round the hem of the skirt there is a deep embroidered flounce. The front of this dress is shown in the illustration marked Fig. 50. A frock made of very fine Swiss muslin, with Swiss muslin or lace trimmings, is an elegant dress, either run with blue ribbon under every part of the insertion or worn over a blue sarcenet slip. A sash can be tied behind of pinked-out blue gros grains, bows to correspond should tie up the shoulders, and silk or fine thread lace socks and blue silk quilted shoes cover the little feet. Silk quilted shoes are very soft, comfortable, and pretty for a baby’s best wear up to a year and a half old. Winter frocks for children short-coated are exceedingly pretty made of plaid. The Rob Roy—that is, scarlet and black ; the Robertson, also scarlet and black, dice of scarlet and white; and the scarlet Stuart plaid, are particu- larly appropriate for children. So is the dress Stuart, the scarlet plaid, in which a little green, yellow, and black is mixed, mounted on a white ground. Fig. 52 illustrates a pretty way of making a boy’s frock of this plaid. A yard and a half makes a child’s frock. Cut the body and sleeves first, using about a quarter of a yard for the purpose; fold the rest in half. The front width is gored on both sides to about eight inches across the waist. For a boy’s frock gore a little off each side of the back also, but not for a girl’s frock. Cut the front breadth in half where the slanting pattern is observed. Mitre one side and bind it with black ribbon, velvet, or braid. Bind the under edge straight, to prevent its fraying. Sew the mitred edge about an inch over the other, and put a small black or a gilt button in every scollop. The mitres continue up the body. The body is piped at the top and the mitres added. The sleeves are plain, and mitred bands are laid round them with lappet ends behind, as shown in the figure. The belt is mitred, and so is the sash of two short ends and four bows and a knot. The edge of the skirt is merely hemmed. Lace must be tacked round the top and sleeves of this and all coloured frocks. Fig. 53 is suitable for a girl or boy. It may be made of cambric or very fine mull-muslin. The tucks on the body are very fine: the sleeves are a straight piece of muslin, which is tucked before it is cut into shape. The skirt has a deep hem, and from eight to ten small tucks above it. The neck and sleeves are finished, with lace or edging. Fig. 48 is a baby girl’s short frock. The tunic and lower part of the bodice can be made of plaid, and the rest of the frock of plain cashmere. It is also pretty if with the tunic and corset of grey cashmere and the petti- coat and bodice top of scarlet. The tunic is gored quite plain to the waist in front, and slightly gored at the sides of the back, which is pleated at the waist. The edge is mitred and bound with black braid. The petticoat is only a piece put on under the mitres of either plain scarlet cashmere or with upright small pleatings. The top of the body and sleeves are scarlet, plain, or pleated, accord- ing to the petticoat. For a dress frock blue llama over white alpaca is very pretty, and the alpaca petticoat trimmed with two rows of blue ribbon. Instead of the mitred edge two rows of white ribbon can be used to trim the tunic, or instead of two plain rows a twisted row, like Fig. 49. The tunic must of course correspond with the petticoat in the style of-trimming, only blue trimming is laid on the white, and white on the blue. In winter, children from the time they are short-coated generally wear a pelisse made exactly like a frock with a high body and long sleeves, and a cape and collar of the same material. The capes are deep, and reach below the waist. Black velveteen, grey or blue merino, are very suitable for such a purpose. Trim velveteen with a broad military braid and a narrow one of the same colour as the pelisse, and a row of buttons down the front. Merino pelisses look best when trimmed with quilted silk of the same colour; but many people use white worsted braid