CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 19 inestimable value to those about to furnish a small house; ' and about the economy of its use there can be no question, j In the narrow passages a high dado, painted a dark buffi or brown, with a line still darker on top, and the upper ' wall coloured in distemper, is superior in its wear and [ cleanliness to any wall-paper, as the painted dado can be kept fresh and clean with soap and w'ater, and the dis- tempering renewed when necessary at a small cost. This treatment can be continued up the staircase, and the painting of the doors and woodwork in the house should be of a uniform tint. For yellow or buff walls the dado and woodwork may be chocolate or olive brown, or a dark blue toned down with black. With walls of pale sage green, the woodwork may be either darker tints of the same, or dull green-blue, olive-brown, or Indian red. The fashion of graining the woodwork in imitation of natural woods can only be defended on the score of durability, as it is ugly and inartistic in the extreme. In the bedrooms, where we desire to combine “ sweet- ness and light,” the paper should never be a source of arithmetical problems to the occupant, but should con- tain some rambling design, in which, try our best, we can discern neither beginning nor end, and should be of pale shades of either rose, amber, or green. For both drawing-room and dining-rooms the new wall- papers, in lengths with the accompanying dado, are now produced at prices within the reach of all. The ceilings throughout the house require to be coloured in sympathy with the respective rooms. A warm tone of straw-colour or pink on the ceiling of a room on the north side of the house adds sunshine to the aspect at once. The cold white we have been so long used to is no longer fashionable, and we have returned to the charming ideas of decoration still to be admired in houses of the Eliza- bethan period. The blinds should be uniform in material in the front of a house. The front windows may have Venetian blinds if it be a southern aspect, while if facing the north they may be made of buff union cloth, which produces a mellow, warm tone when the light passes through it, or the newly-introduced red blinds, which are equally pretty and comfortable-looking. There are some rules for furnishing rooms properly which may be always remembered, and which will well repay the trouble of learning. As regards form, the more cultivated and refined the intellect the greater is the craving for correct and refined designs. It is truthfully said that “the eye creates its own beauty,” but on the other hand the eye may be educated not to select forms of ugliness and fancy them beautiful. In small rooms, if any of the furniture be too large, no matter how good its quality, how handsome its shape, or how perfect its finish, if it have no fitness for its place it will exhibit the pretension and vulgar ambition of its owner, and look more as if taken in payment of a debt than as if selected by an educated mind. Costly carved furniture, or imitation of such, is totally out of place when accompanied by small means and limited domestic service ; for it is either covered to keep it from dust, or it is not kept clean and bright, as carved work should be ; and thus it gives a look of shabbiness to the whole place, which irritates the temper of an observer, but is totally unfelt by those who see without observing. Plain but well-shaped furniture, without angles or stiffness, shining and clean, and having no dust-holes, gives a marvellous sense of repose to the looker-on, provided such furniture is for use and not for show. Almost the first thing to be done towards furnishing is the making and putting up of blinds ; and where expense is matter of consideration, and Venetian blinds not to be thought of, the affair is not one of trouble nor much cost. Brass blind-furniture, requiring only fixing with nails or screws, can be obtained at most ironmongers’. It consists of the wheel and pin for each end of a roller; j also, the sockets for fixing them into the proper place, i The wooden rollers and laths are usually kept by car- penters ready for sale. A woman may manage to fix all I this properly, and afterwards make the blinds and put them up. The blind must not be nailed close to the ends of the roller, but a space of half an inch left on each side. Thus, if the roller be 36 inches long from end to end, allow 35 inches for the space the calico of the blind is to fill, and the calico for this blind must measure 37 inches in width —always keeping the blind material one inch wider than the roller. The cloth will require the selvage to be cut off straight, and then the two sides folded down an inch in width. To do this accurately, with an inch measure and black-lead pencil mark off the width of an inch down each side. Then fold the seam, single-turned, on the marks, and herring-bone them down. For the seam to admit the lath, turn down a hem, and work in the centre of it an eyelet-hole in overcast stitch for the purpose of admitting the ring-screw. Then, instead of hemming this, sew it. Turn down once the remaining raw edge of the blind, and mark the centre with marking- ink ; write on it, also, the name of the room in which it is to be placed. Mark with ink the centre of the blind- roller, and the lath the same, and also with the name of the room ; so that, when a change of blinds is necessary, there is no waste of time or trouble in measuidng them for the difterent windows. In nailing on the blind, nail it first in the centre, then at the two ends, with a few tin tacks, not driven close; then try with the two hands whether the blind will roll well. If not, it is certain that somewhere it is not straight, and will require to be put so. After the blinds, the kitchen requisites should be men- tioned. The matter of kitchen ranges is a vexed one. Makers recommend different kinds ; but a truly eco- nomical and serviceable range—one that burns little fuel, not as matter of choice, but of necessity, and gives the greatest amount of heat without waste—is yet to be found. Many of them ai'e wonderful contrivances, apparently, for the saving of labour, but with far too much ingenuity about them for any but an engineer to manage ; being also, at the same time, the most coal- consuming. The small cooking stoves for use with a lamp are in some cases marvels of economy, and t\yo people can cook their own meals with the smallest possible amount of labour and cost. Gas stoves are an improvement on the ordinary kitchen range, but the expense of the requisite fittings is an objection. To know how to cook with simple means and appliances is an art which may be easily acquired, and to this object our papers on Cooking will be especially directed. There is one thing which most kitchens may ha.ve at a moderate expense, and that is a -warm-plate, made in the shape of a tin box, a quarter of a yard deep, half a yai'd wide, and forty inches long, similar in shape to those which pastry-cooks keep filled -with boiling water to re- warm their pastry. This can be fixed to serve as a table, and forms, with the aid of gas, a hot-plate for keeping food in dishes warm till the moment of serving. The top should have two hinged lids, and the bottom be per- forated to admit of two jets of gas underneath the lids, which can be opened for the purpose of lighting it. This same contrivance can be placed in the cupboard adjoining the boiler; a pipe fitted to the latter will conduct the steam, and so keep it always hot, without the expense of gas. Kitchen cupboards should have shelves which, unless the landlord places them in, need not be fixtures. Mov- able shelves, fitted into a groove like the sides of a box, and furnished with rollers, can be drawm in and out at pleasure for the purpose of cleaning them. It is not often that laths and hooks for hanging up dish-covers are found in houses of moderate rental. For