OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN. 276 A few words as to the preparation of pomades. Cooley, who is a great authority in this matter, says, that in the preparation of pomades one of the first objects is to obtain the fatty basis in as fresh and pure a state as possible. Lard, beef or mutton suet, either singly or together, are generally used. The fat, carefully selected and freed from skin and other foreign matter, is pounded in a mortar until all the membranes are completely torn asunder. It is next placed in a covered porcelain or polished metal pan, and submitted to the heat of a water bath, which is continued till its fatty portion has liquefied, and the other matters have subsided and separated. The liquid fat is then carefully skimmed, and at once passed through a clean filter. In this state it can be perfumed at will; after which, when it is intended that the pomade shall be opaque and white, it is kept stirred or beaten with a glass or wooden knife until it concretes ; but when it is desired to be transparent and crystalline, it is allowed to cool very slowly, and without being disturbed. To prevent rancidity, a little benzoic acid or gum benjamin is added when in the liquid state. Sometimes a little bees’-wax, or white wax, is melted with the fat to give it greater solidity. We will give the recipes for several kinds of pomatums and oils which housewives can manufacture for them- selves. Ordinary Scented PoniaUini. The pomatum prepared in the way above described ... ... ... i pound. Melt with a gentle heat, and add essence of lemon 2 teaspoonfuls Stir till it solidifies. Castor-Oil Pomade. Castor-oil ... ... ... ... i pound. White wax ... ... ... ... 4 ounces. Melt these together, and when cooling add any scent— bergamot or oil of lavender—with a few drops of oil of ambergris. Crystallised Poinade. Olive oil ... ... ... ... I pound. Spermaceti ... ... ... ... 3 ounces. Melt together, and then add to it essence of bergamot 60 drops, and 30 drops of each of the oils of verbena, lavender, and rosemary. Pour it into a rather wide- mouthed glass bottle, and leave the whole perfectly quiet, to cool undisturbed. Marrow Pomade. Prepared beef marrow ... ... i pound. Beef suet ... ... ... ... J pound. Palm oil i ounce. Melt together, and add scent. ^‘‘Macassar” Poi7iade. Castor oil 5 ounces. White wax ... ... ... ... i ounce. Alkanet root .. ... ... ... 30 grains. To be heated together and mixed; then strain and add oil of origanum and oil of rosemary, of each 60 drops, oil of nutmeg 30 droids, otto of roses 10 drops. East India Pomade. Suet ... ... ... ... 3 pounds. Lard ... ... ... ... ... 2 pounds. Bces’-wax ^ pound. Palm oil ... ... ... ... 2 ounces. Powdered gum benzoin . ... 3 ounces. Musk rubbed up with a little sugar... 20 grains. Heat up the whole by means of a water bath for two hours, pour off the clear liquid, and add to it Essence of lemon ... ... ... | ounce. Oil of lavender ^ ounce. Oil of cloves, cassia, verbena, of each 30 drops. A great favourite. Macassar Oil. Oil of almonds, coloured by alkanet root i pint. Oil of rosemary and origanum, of each 60 drops. Oil of nutmeg and otto of roses, of each 15 drops. Neroli ... ... ... ... ... 6 drops. Essence of Musk 3 drops. Mix. Ma7'row Oil. Take clarified beef marrow one part, oil of almonds three parts. Melt together, and strain through muslin, and then scent in any way desired. This may also be coloured with alkanet root or palm oil. OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN.—V. HIGH-CLASS TUITION. In Our last paper we considered the question of ele- mentary teaching with a view to assisting governesses, and those teachers without a certificate, as well as parents superintending the education of their daughters to a just view of the importance of obtaining one, and the most simple method of doing so. A few words of warning on the question of health are very needful. Mr. Sandford, one of H.M. Inspectors of Schools, in his last year’s report, which appeared in the Educational Blue Book, adverts to the subject, and says of pupil teachers : “ These young people have the double task of both learning and teaching imposed upon them ; and upon those who study hard the strain is sometimes more than they can bear. Breakdowns in health are very far from being uncommon, whilst a delicate, over-worked look is frequent, especially among female pupil teachers.” He adds : “ It would be well if the age of admission to the office could be raised, so that pupil teachers might be more thoroughly grounded before they enter upon their duties.” The age for apprenticeship is thirteen; but although this early age is sanctioned by the Code, it does not positively require it, but is satisfied with an apprenticeship of two years only, provided that at the end of this reduced term of service the candidate has completed her eighteenth year. It is most desirable that advantage should be more fre- quently taken of this permission given by the Code, for it seems all but impossible for an ordinary child of thirteen to get through all the work contemplated in the Code, and the additional subject of religious knowledge besides, of which it takes no cognisance. At the age of fifteen or sixteen a girl would enter on the work of teaching with a stronger physical frame, and a mind better stored with knowledge. The amount of extra study necessitated by the new Code is very severe, and over-work in youth will certainly be visited with evil results during the whole course of a professional career. We are of opinion that the root of the mischief lies in the class of girls chosen for pupil teachers, and in the mistaken idea that the work of a pupil teacher presents no greater difficulties to girls of the lower class than the training required for domestic service. We have only to consider the position of a labouring man’s daughter who becomes a pupil teacher to see that she has evc7ything lo learn by hard study from books. She is educated—not cultivated—and the work of learning thoroughly, and teaching well, must be essentially foreign to her ordinary home-life. In consequence, it is those who have the least muscle and the most brain who take to it, and very generally find the struggle too great for their strength. This is a great reason in favour of the present movement for bringing-up girls of a good station in life to adopt teaching as a profession, which will be both lucrative and important. “ The children of the upper and middle classes,” says a recent writer on this subject, “ have their taste, intelligence, and per-