5 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. wasteful but unhealthy, and ought to be carefully guarded against. In France the culinary art is much more generally known or understood than in Great Britain, and without doubt Scotland and the Border-land come next in at- tention to it in its simpler branches. As a rule, people in this country do not pay sufficient attention to the matter of culinary v^essels ; quite for- getting that it is really the best economy to have such vessels as will enable them to cook their food easily and well without at the same time necessitating any gieat outlay. In many houses in this country a great deal of fuel is wasted in the large open grates generally in use, and they are being consequently superseded in most places by some sort of cooking range. Fig. i shows a range suitable for a household of moderate means, which will be found convenient and economical; to the details of such a range we shall have occasion to refer in treating of the preparation of various dishes. It will be found an economical plan to use a stove like, that shown on page 4, Fig. 2, ranging from about two feet and a half by two, and only containing an oven (the larger sizes have a boiler as well). They heat equally all over; will boil, bake, and roast, all at once; use very little fuel, and can be allowed to go out directly their work is done. In addition to this they are easy to manage; the saucepans require little or no scrubbing, as they never come in con- tact with the smoke ; and the consumption of fuel is very small. We use coke to advantage, French people use charcoal, but coal is the best. The first outlay in a stove without a boiler is about £,2 los., with a boiler, ^3 ; and this is soon saved in fuel and time occupied in cleaning the saucepans. A frying-pan, a gridiron, a saucepan, and a three-legged pot or “getlin,” are all the culinary utensils absolutely necessary for ordinary plain cookery. These vary in price, according to size ; for example—a moderate-sized gridiron costing from is. 2d. to 2s. 6d.; frying-pan, is. to is. 6d.; saucepan, is. 6d. to 3s. ; iron pot, 4s. 6d. to 7s. With these, a decent cook can do all that is necessary. As for a roasting-jack, nothing is better than a skewer and a hank of yarn. The gridiron is a serviceable utensil, which deserves to be kept with special care. It is not unfrequently the friend in need to whom we resort when other means of cooking fail. It has also been made the subject of modern improvements. In olden time a silver gridiron was the pride of aristocratic cooks; but an enamelled or a well tinned one is scarcely its inferior. A good gridiron now has grooved bars (as shown in Fig. 3), which render the double service of keeping the fire clear of dropping fat, and consequently of smoke, and of conducting the gravy to a trough in front, whence it may be poured over steaks or chops in their dish. A rusty gridiron will not improve a steak, while one still greasy with last week’s broil will spoil it. Although not made of silver, it should be as bright, and scrupulously clean between the bars. For broiling, a charcoal fire is best; a coke fire, second best. With a cinder fire, you must wait till it is quite clear, and then sprinkle it with salt. Then heat your gridiron before laying on the steak, otherwise the parts touching the bars will remain raw when the rest is cooked. If made too hot, the bars will burn and char the steak, marking it with black lines, besides spoiling the flavour. Turning the steak several times keeps the gravy inside. This turning, which should be done not with a fork, but with a pair of meat tongs, will slightly prolong the time of cooking. A good rump steak will take ten minutes; pork chops and mutton cutlets less, according to their thickness; the former, however, should always be well done. For turning chops and steaks without pricking them with a fork, a double gridiron has been invented, the only objec- tions to which are that it is more trouble to keep clean and less easy to heat its bars equally to the proper temperature. When placed on the fire, the gridiron should stand forwards, to cause the fat to run in that direction, instead of dropping into the fire, and so smoking the steak. This position is now insured by making the hind legs of the gridiron higher than the front ones, as shown in our illustration. Fig. 3. The foregoing utensils we have indicated as especially useful in a household of moderate means. As our work proceeds, we shall give illustrations of others necessary for the more advanced and elaborate branches of cookery, and proceed now with SIMPLE RECIPES. Bread is the Briton’s staff of life ; we therefore begin our Homely Cookery with that important article of food. It is sometimes a good deal helped out with potatoes, but the use of more than a certain proportion of that vegetable is not desirable for maintaining strength. People who live almost entirely on potatoes become too stout, and are comparatively weak. The Hindoos and other Eastern nations, who eat little besides rice, are inferior in bodily strength not only to the northern peoples of Europe, who consume fish in large quantities, and to the South American races of men, whose diet is meat exclusively, but to bread-and-meat eating people like ourselves. It is the large quantity of bread they consume that maintains the strength of the French labourers, many of whom do not taste fresh meat more than once or twice a year. All the soups so liked by the working classes in France, contain soaked bread in some shape or another. Bread, if we think of it, is an ingenious contrivance for rendering corn eatable by human mouths, and digestible by human stomachs, which could only have been discovered step by step. The eating of dry barley, wheat, or rye, must have been working hard for one’s living. Even frumenty (new wheat boiled soft and flavoured with sugar, nutmeg,. and eggs) is tolerably trying to the jaws. Pounded corn might furnish an ingredient for stews and gruel; after the further invention of grinding it into flour between two flat stones, it would make porridge, and could even be baked on the hearth into cakes, which, however, would not yet be bread. It is the fermentation, the “working,” the causing of the dough to “rise” and become light, without which there is no real bread. Unleavened bread is an incomplete article, the produce of an unfinished process ; and is therefore the symbol of pressure, danger, and con- sequent haste, in the eyes of the persons who partake of it at stated seasons. We may believe that the discovery of the fermentation of dough, converting it from heavy cake into light bread, was the result of some lucky accident. Good Household Bread.—To ten pounds of flour in- your kneading-trough, put a small handful of salt. Stir into this about two quarts of water, more or less; but>- some flours will soak up more water than others. For very white bread, made with superfine flour, the dough should be softer than for seconds or brown bread. In summer the water may be milk-warm; in winter, con- siderably warmer, but never hot enough to kill the yeast. After the water is mixed with the flour, add the yeast. Much depends on the quality of the yeast. Then knead your bread. After kneading, leave it to rise in a warm place, covered with a cloth. If all goes well, it will have risen in something between an hour and an hour and a half. Then divide it into rolls, loaves, or tin-breads- as wanted, and bake. For a three-pound loaf, you must take three pounds and a half of dough ; for a four-pound loaf, four pounds eleven ounces ; for a six-pound loaf, six pounds and three-quarters ; and for an eight-pound loaf, nine pounds of dough. You cannot make good bread without good water. The