CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 327 least, an inch or two more. But we like the height to be in the body and not in the legs. “A good horse,” says somebody, “can never be of bad colour.” We differ from this gentleman, whoever he may be, and so does our groom. Some colours are proverbially hardy, others soft ; and unless a white or light grey be very cleanly in his person he gives a great deal of trouble in the stable. Bay horses with black legs or points—as they are sometimes called—are generally good, and when bright, very handsome. A good brown with a tan muzzle is regarded as cha- racteristic of constitution ; and a dark rich chestnut is the handsomest of all. A golden chestnut is a good colour, indicative, some say, of pace ; but they are frequently hot and skittish ; and a pale, washy chestnut is said to show want of stamina. Of greys, Xho. flea-bitten and the mottled are the handsomest, and usually considered the best; as they approach white they are apt to stain in the dirt of the stable, and require much soft soap and water and what is commonly known as “elbow grease” to keep them, clean. Iron-grey is less common, and we have known one or two hardy horses of that colour; and blacks, excepting as chargers, cavalry horses, or in mourning coaches, are not popular. Roans are considered to be as a rule very hardy; we have seldom seen a bad one, but they are not usually remarkable for breeding or quality. The texture of the skin is a more valuable test than colour; it should be soft, smooth, silky, and is indicative of health and condi- tion. The swelling of the veins in exercise is another sign of the same thing, and, moreover, furnishes some proof of a ready circulation. Having given these instructions for an investigation of the general appearance of the horse, we add a sketch on the basis of the square as we proposed doing. (See page 325.) THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—IX. LIQUID FOODS. We have now to consider a different class of food, which includes water, tea, coffee, cocoa, beer, wines, and spirits. These are termed by some “food ad- iuncts;” but as water is absolutely necessary to life, and must therefore be taken by itself, or holding in solution the active principles of tea, coffee, and cocoa, or mixed with alcohol and other matters in the form of beer, wines, and spirits, we prefer the term “liquid foods.” Perhaps it would have been, in one respect, more appro- priate to have included milk under this heading ; but as milk is essentially an animal food, we have preferred grouping it with the animals from which it is procured. Water differs in its composition according to the sources from which it is obtained. Thus, the water <»f deep springs usually contains very little organic matter, whilst that from many rivers and shallow wells is often so charged with it as to be unfit for drinking. Pure water is not to be procured from any spring, however deep, so that the term “ pure ” is merely relative. Lake water is generally the purest, whilst pump water in or near large towns is usually very impure. Water obtained from the chalk strata is generally very “ hard ’’—that is to say, contains large quantities of lime ; whilst rain-water is ■“ soft,” as it is free from lime. As, however, the salts in rather hard water render it more palatable, and as the body, and especially the bones, contain the salts found in bard water, its use is unobjectionable, unless the lime and magnesia are largely in excess. Moderately soft water is the best for making tea and coffee, as hard water will not extract so much of the active principles. Some lake- water contains as little as lbs. of salts in 100,000 lbs. of water ; whilst in that from a deep London well as much as eighty-four in 100,000 parts were found; and from the Thames, at its source, about twenty-eight parts. River and shallow well water very frequently contains sewage, which would prove injurious to health if it were drunk before the oxygen of the air had converted it into innocuous compounds. Tea, coffee, and cocoa contain an active principle—a nitrogenous alkaloid—which is called theine when obtained from tea, caffein from coffee, and theobromine from cocoa. It is probable that the universality of their use depends on the peculiar effect of this alkaloid on the nervous system. All three are exposed to the action of heat—i.e., roasted—before they are used, but they differ materially in their effects on the system. Tea acts as a powerful excitant of respiratory action, causing wakefulness and a moist state of the skin ; whilst coffee is more stimulating, and diminishes the secretion of the skin, and is, therefore, more suitable for the weak and at the morning meal. Tea should not be taken before a meal, but after it. Cocoa differs from both in containing a considerable quantity of fat, so that many persons cannot take it until the fat has been removed. It is also less exciting to the nervous system, and is very suitable for breakfast. There are three varieties of the Tea-plant {Thea sinensis) —viz., Tkea viridis, T. bohea, and T. striata, the so-called T. Assamensis not being a separate variety. The plant is a kind of camellia, and is generally kept down by pruning, so as to be made bushy and admit of its leaves being readily plucked. The Thea bohea is the smaller of the two, and produces the inferior green and black teas ; whilst the T. viridis, a larger-growing shrub, is that from which the finer teas are made. The shrub does not afford leaves for plucking until it is three years old, and usually ceases to produce them in paying quantities after it is twenty or twenty-five years old. The finest and most delicate teas are the produce of the young leaves, as they contain a larger proportion of soluble matter. Black tea is prepared by leaving the leaves unroasted for some hours, so as to set up fermentative action ; they are then roasted for a few minutes, rolled, and allowed to remain in a soft, moist state for a few hours ; and, lastly, dried over charcoal fires. Green teas are lightly roasted soon after they are plucked, then rolled, and quickly dried off. About three pounds of leaf give one pound of tea. The middling qualities of tea are occasionally mixed with scented leaves, such as those of the Olea fragrans. The China green teas are divided into Gunpowder, Young Hyson, Hyson, and Twankay. There are also green teas from Java and Japan. The black are called, according to the size and quality of the leaves, Moning, Kaisou, Congou, Souchong, Oolong, Orange Pekoe, Caper, Foo Choo, and Canton—the latter being of inferior quality. Until a comparatively recent period our tea was im- ported solely from China, but of late years very con- siderable quantities have been brought from Assam, Cachar, Darjeeling, and other parts of India, as well as from Japan. In i86i the imports from India were only about 1,500,000 lbs., in 1869 they were 10,450,000 lbs., and in 1875 as much as 25,589,765 lbs. This great in- crease has been chiefly caused by the demand for mixing with China tea, as Indian is of greater strength, flavour, and pungency. Indeed, Assam tea is too strong and pungent for drinking unmixed, as it acts too powerfully on the nervous system. The importation of tea has enormously increased of late years, as the quantity re- tained for home consumption in 1861 was only 77,927,750 lbs., against 123,401,889 lbs. in 1871, and 145,327,432 lbs. in 1875. The value of the tea imported in 1875 was ^13,766,961 ; but as ;^2,555,5o6 worth was exported, the value of the tea retained for use in this country in 1875 was ;6i 1,211,455. Ill 1876 the total value imported was nearly ^1,000,000 less than in 1875. The large outlay in this article of import shows that the use of warm drinks,