6o THE DOG. or similar material, while others will have nothing but flowers. But where flowers are used for the purpose, it is necessary to plant very closely, or one of the chief objects of the edging—namely, to keep the mould from being brought down on to the path by rain, &c.—will not be secured. Nothing answers this end better, or looks neater, than good terra-cotta tiles, which may he obtained at the rate of about 15s. the hundred, each tile nine inches in length. Where this edging cannot be procured, rounded stones are sometimes used ; and in small gardens, in the vicinity of towns, we have frequently seen borcers of oyster-shells, or broken bricks driven into the ground with the corners uppermost. Box is the best and most lasting material for a permanent green edging, but it must be planted with great care, to protect it against frost. The soil round the edge of the bed to be formed must be patted down firm and even, or level, and having chopped out the trench in a slanting direction towards the walk, the roots of the box must then be laid against this, and the soil pressed down tight as the trench is being filled up around them. They should be planted in March or September, and clipped in July or August. An edging of grass is objectionable, as we have already remarked, as it requires constant attention to keep it tidy. THE CULTIVATION’ OF SMALL GARDENS. In the outskirts of London, and, indeed, of most towns, there are to be found numbers of small houses at a moderate rental, with a very small patch of ground at the back, from twenty to thirty yards in length, and six or seven yards wide, so small, in fact, that at first sight it might appear questionable whether it would be really worth the time, trouble, and necessary expense to keep it in a state of cultivation. We hope to be able to show that this would be a mistake. A plot of ground, however small, is far too valuable to be wasted, especially in the suburbs of towns, where garden produce of every sort and description is very expensive ; and our present object is to show those of our readers who have small gardens of this kind in what manner they may cultivate them to the best advantage. The laying-out of them should be as simple as possible —either with a path down the centre, and beds on each side to the boundary walls, or else with a path running round the garden at about two or three feet from the wall. Of these, the latter is preferable, for several reasons ; it is certainly more sightly, and enables the occupier to reach every part of his little territory with facility. Of course, if it be merely intended to use the garden as an ornament, it will be easy enough to fill the surround- ing beds with flowers, the centre being laid out in grass, with a few small beds of flowers in the centre, as we have already described, but this is an expensive matter, as all the plants will have to be procured fresh year after year, there not being sufficient space to propagate fresh ones, or to keep a stock through the winter for the next summer’s planting. If it be desired to make the garden remunerative, flowers must be made a secondary consideration, and the principal part of the space should be filled with a. judicious selection of vegetables. In favourable situa- tions such a plot would grow the cabbages, lettuces, radishes, endive, onions, spinach, and the various useful herbs necessary for a small family ; and if all the ground were kept continually under cultivation, or, in other words, as soon as one crop is done with it were cleared off, and another put in its place, it might be made re- munerative. In the case of smaller plots of ground, such as belong to or accompany dwellings of a minor description, which might be better understood by the name of yards, if they were only paved, it would likewise pay the tenant to grow useful pot herbs, and such crops as onions, lettuces, radishes, and so forth ; and as such there is no reason why even a single foot of soil should lie idle. In a future paper we shall again revert to the subject of gardens on a somewhat larger scale, and endeavour to show how to make them pay. Cauliflowers, rhubarb, sea-kale, and even asparagus might be grown. A few of the most useful fruits, such as raspberries, currants, gooseberries—of course, small-sized—might be planted here and there in the garden, currants might be nailed against the wall with advantage—(these latter would prevent that look of bareness about the walls, so detrimental to the appearance of any garden) —and space might also be found here and there for a few strawberries. In an ensuing paper we shall give a plan for the laying out of a small villa garden, and shall then proceed with some account of the tool-house—so necessary an adjunct to every garden, however small—and with a brief de- scription of the nature and uses of the more ordinary garden tools. THE DOG.—II. PRINCIPAL ’VARIETIES (continued from p. 13). Next in point of general interest to those varieties of dogs which we described in the previous paper, come those larger animals which, on account of their strength and courage, man allies to himself as the protectors of his property or his person. Of these the most important is un- doubtedly the English mastiff, one of the finest and most powerful of all the many varieties of dogs. This breed is probably that which was so eagerly sought by the ancient Romans for combat in the circus, and was then known as the most powerful fi.ghting dog in the world. William Edwardes relates that in 1615 an English mas- tiff killed a tiger in India in single combat; but it is not certain whether the modern mastiff is of quite such colossal strength as these ancient animals. Still, he is a grand dog. The height to the shoulder should be from twenty-six to thirty inches (some reach thirty-four inches) ; all the limbs sturdy and strong. The head is massive, with a noble forehead; eyes rather small and mild; ears small and pendant; muzzle broad and square; chest broad and capacious; and body very large, with powerful loins; tail fine, and reaching rather below the hocks. The handsomest colour is fawn, or dark buff, with a rich black muzzle ; but very handsome dogs all black are sometimes met with; brindled and red dogs also occur ; but white does not as a rule look well, and is little valued. The character of the mastiff generally is truly noble. Indeed, he is said to be the only dog from which even his master dare take away a bone. Calm and quiet to all, he takes pleasure in the rough gambols of children, and an infant of a few months old may be fearlessly cradled in his colossal limbs. But let him be set at any living thing, or let danger assail those he loves, or even let him see violence attempted to be done, and all his fearful strength is exerted with a courage that even the bull-dog cannot exceed. What the lion is among wild beasts, the mastiff is among dogs—the • strongest, noblest, most dig- nified : and what the lion is not, the gentlest of them all. The Bull-dog was probably bred from the mastiff originally, and the old and powerful breed is extinct. The modem bull-dog is a highly artificial animal, the very shape of the skull being obviously the result of art; the jaw is under-hung (the lower jaw projecting), the forehead