86 COOKERY. box. Take the mitre-bevel and set it to about 6o° or 70°, the exact angle is not important, and set off on the edge of each end of A, the two outside pins, and any con- venient number of pins between them, the bevel being reversed to mark the two sides of each pin. Produce the bevel round both faces of the board, with the square, as far as the gauge lines e e. Now fix the board firmly in the bench, end up, and with the dove-tail saw (Fig. 24, page 43) cut the gashes c c c. Lay the board flat on the bench, face downwards, and take a sharp chisel and a mallet, and give a cut exactly on the square line, between each pin. Turn the piece over and cut from the other side gauge-line until the pieces between the pins are removed, taking care that the pins should not be injured in the process. Care- fully square the spaces with the chisel, without using the mallet, and trim off the roughness left by the saw on the pins. N ext take the front or back (2) of the box and lay on the bench inside uppermost, and place on it the end A on edge, with its inside edge touching the square mark and with its top and bottom edges flush with those of 2. Now, with the point of the striking-knife, mark off the bevels on the edges of each pin, and produce the lines with the square across the end of B and to the square mark on the other side, with the mitre-bevel. Saw the lines h h with the dove-tail saw, and remove the spaces i i by chiselling out across the square line, and K K by sawing. The pins on the ends of A will then exactly fit the dove-tails in B. The four corners of the box require to be treated in the same way, the pins being worked on each end of the shortest side or end, and the dove-tails on each end of the longest or side of the box. Glue in firmly, and, after the work is dry, carefully plane off the project- ing ends. The appearance of the joint will then be as shown in Fig. 46, in which the end grain of the wood is shaded. The bottom, which should be of thinner wood, may be nailed or screwed on, and the top should have a ledge round the front and end edges which will shut over the body. A narrow slip of wood (about three inches) nailed round the bottom and nicely bevelled or mitred at the corners, will much improve the appearance of the work and add to its strength. For small common work, it is a very frequent practice to mitre up the edges to an angle of 45° and glue them together, and then, when dry, to make little saw cuts obliquely, alternately inclined upwards and downwards, and glue thin slips of veneer into these niches. This method is much easier than dove-tailing, and is tolerably strong. It is known as the mitre and key-joint. There are several modifications of the dove-tail joint, such as Fig. 47, which shows only from the side, and not in front. This arrangement is used for drawers in cabinet work. The mitre or secret clove-tail has the pins and dove-tails worked on a bevelled edge, and when joined up, neither can be seen at all. These, however, are recj[uircd chiefly for the higher class of cabinet work. In our nc.xt paper we shall give instructions for making and fixing a carpenter’s bench. COOKERY.—VI. FISH (continuedfrom p. 68). Plain Broiled Mackerel.—Moderate-sized fish are the most convenient for broiling. Open them at the belly the whole of their length. Remove the head ; you may leave the tail—it will make the dish look more important. In districts where fish is a rarity, it is common to leave every fin, even on fried fish—that is, on fish truly fried by phtngitig them in boiling fat—for the sake of improving their appearance ; it makes them look half as big again. When the fish is opened, and laid flat on its back, you may remove the bone ; but leaving it will help you to handle it, and save all tearing of the flesh. Dry the inside of the fish with a napkin ; sprinkle it with a little pepper and salt. Grill the inside of the mackerel first. After turning it, while the back of the fish is exposed to the fire, lay on the upper surface a few little bits of butter. These will melt and enrich the fish while the broiling is being completed. As soon as done, serve at once. No special sauce is usually served with broiled mackerel. Those who like it can add a few drops of catchup, or other flavouring. When broiling is not convenient, mackerel so split open can be fried. In that case, the tail-fin is best cut off. The fish must be well dried on both sides, between the folds of a napkin, and then rubbed with flour before frying. Putting butter to it afterwards is needless. No sauce is absolutely required, but anchovy sauce may be sent up with it. Potted Mackerel.— Clean the fish in the way directed for plain broiled mackerel; cut off the heads and tails, and divide each fish across into three pieces, so as to have the shoulders, the middles, and the tails. After washing, let them drain. Have an earthen pot, a pate dish, with a cover of the same material. A common glazed deep stoneware pot, with a wooden cover, will do in case of need. At the bottom put a layer of mackerel; season with salt, ground pepper, whole pepper, bay-leaf, and cloves. Then put in more mackerel, and season again, and so on, until all is in its place. Over this pour a little more vinegar than will cover the mackerel. If, however, the vinegar be very acid, or if it be desired to keep the fish for any time, the vinegar must be diluted with cyder, water, or beer ; because, in either case, too strong vinegar would dissolve the fish, instead of allowing the flesh to remain firm, which it will do if the strength of the liquid is nicely adjusted, even after the back-bone has become so soft as to be eatable. Cover the dish or pot with its lid, and set into a slow oven for an hour or two—if very slow, it may pass the night there. Mackerel so potted, and closely covered, will keep good for a week or a fortnight, or longer. It may be eaten with a little of its own liquor poured over it, to which a little salad oil is a great addition when people are not frightened by the words “eating oil.” With the accom- paniment of a well-dressed salad, it makes a nice cool supper dish after a fatiguing evening’s work. • It is economical, because the mackerel can be bought when they are plentiful and cheap, and kept in this way till their season is over. Potted mackerel, too (being classed with hors d'aiivres, side dishes, and kickshaws), may be presented even at wealthy tables, as a supplement to any meal. , Pickled Herrings, French Way (excellent cold)-— Towards the end of the herring season, the fish is often very cheap ; but it is better to pay a trifle more before they arc shotten. Choose herrings which, retaining their shape, arc plump, and not too bloodshot about the eyes— i.e., which have not been crushed together in large heaps, cither in the fishing-boats, or in. casks, or baskets. If many of the scales come off, it is a sign they have so suffered. For this reason, when you live near the coast, the fishings of small boats are often to be prefen'cd. The