S3 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—II. DISEASES INCIDENTAL TO CHILDREN. In treating of the diseases which are incidental to child- hood, we shall content ourselves with noticing those of common occurrence. Now, as most of our ailments are the result of our own imprudence or misfortune, it might be expected that childhood would be free from disease ; but it is really the most dangerous part of life, if we exclude age, which has been called second childhood. The organisation of an infant is a very sensitive one, capable of being injured by many things, especially by improper food, by bad air, by cold, and by heat. In some large towns it is very difficult to rear children ; in Liverpool, for example, one child in every four dies before attaining the age of twelve months. It would be well if people would regard the constitution of a child as a thing requiring great consideration and care. Gene- rally speaking, the life of a child is endangered by affec- tions of its nervous system, such as convulsions ; or of its bowels, such as diarrhoea ; or of its breathing appa- ratus, such as bronchitis ; but these are by no means the only dangers with which childhood has to contend. In these papers we propose to treat shortly of the following diseases of children :—i, convulsions ; 2, diarrhoea ; 3, dentition ; 4, bronchitis and croup, and nervous croup ; 5, eruptive fevers ; 6, whooping cough; 7, certain skin diseases ; and 8, worms. CONVULSIONS. These are of common occurrence in young children, owing to the extreme sensitiveness of their nervous system; still a child is not always convulsed when it is said to be so. Nurses are very fond of talking about “inward convulsions,” which often mean nothing more than a few slight twitches about the muscles of the face, especially of the lips. Such twitches often precede or forbode an attack of convulsions, but are not themselves entitled to this name. When a real fit comes on it is too easily perceived. The twitching of the face is no longer slight, but of the nature of a jerk ; the muscles of the trunk and limbs are alternately stiffened and relaxed ; and if the muscles of the chest and body are much affected, the child becomes blue from the way in which the fits interfere with respiration. Causes.—What are the causes of such fits 1 They vary in different cases ; but they may be resolved into three or four principal classes. First, some fault in the food of the child. The food may be unfitted to the tender wants of the infant. It may be artificial milk instead of maternal; or it may be bad milk instead of good. And even in the case of a child fed with its own mother’s milk it may happen that a sudden derangement of the mother’s milk—as, for example, by a fright—will occasion a convulsion in the child. Another error of diet, recognised as an occasional cause of fits in children, is giving too much food at one time—gorging the stomach. Another common cause of fits is the irritation caused in sensitive children by the process of teething. It is amaz- ing how one or more teeth pressing on the gum may irri- tate and derange a child. Prolonged dia^'rhcea, exhaust- ing a child, will be occasionally followed by a convulsion. Worms in the bowels are often a cause of convulsions in children, and may be considered to be the cause in any particular case if they have been noticed before the occur- rence of the fits, and if the fits cease after the expulsion of the worms. Our list of the causes of such attacks would be incomplete if we did not specify bad air. Formerly, in the Rotunda Lying-in Hospital, Dublin, a large pro- portion of the children used to die of fits. No less than a sixth of the children died within a fortnight after their birth of the disease known as the lock-jaw of infants, in which not only the muscles of the jaw, but the other muscles of the body are affected with a stiffness. The children attacked with it almost invariably died. Dr. Joseph Clarke entirely abolished this disease in the Rotunda by securing the better ventilation of the wards by a system of shafts. We mention this disease, not only because it is of the nature of fits, but also because its complete extinction in the Rotunda is one of the most striking instances that can be brought forward of the good effects of fresh air. Treatment.—When a child is attacked with convul- sions, pending the arrival of the doctor, two or three things maybe done by those in ^attendance. First, let them be advised not to be too excited or too officious. It is very alarming to see a child convulsed, but generally children do not die in fits, and the best service will be that which is rendered in quietness. The things which it is generally right to do are to admit plenty of air to the child’s face, and to put it into a rvarm bath (not too hot), in such a position as to give it plenty of air in breathing. The further treatment of the child wall be best judged of by the medical man ; but if from any cause his arrival be delayed, the steps to be taken must depend on the probable causes of the attack. If the child should have taken doubtful food, this source of irritation must be rectified. If it have taken a large quantity of food, there would be little harm in trying to excite vomiting, in the interval of the fits, by tickling the mouth with a feather or with the finger. If the child be in an exhausted state from previous diarrhoea or other causes, a little simple food should be introduced, either breast-milk or fresh milk and water, or barley water, or, if the child be very much reduced, a little very weak brandy and water sweetened with sugar. If the gum is red or swollen over a coming tooth, nothing gives such relief as lancing the gums ; this, of course, can only be done by a medical man. But the medical man is sometimes foolishly opposed by parents in this matter. We need scarcely remark that in the actual fit the child will not be able to swallow, and during this time the attendants should be careful to let it have plenty of air. Before leaving the treatment of children subject to convulsions, we should say the great duty of friends is to preserve such children from the causes of them, which we have specified, and in every way to strengthen the children. It should be remembered that fits imply a morbid sensitiveness, which is often constitutional. By good food, by pure air, by plenty of sleep, and regular living on the part of the parent, such sensitiveness is diminished, and with it the chance of fits. DIARRHOEA. This, like the preceding, is a very common ailment of children. It is the cause of much of the mortality of young children; and where it is not fatal it often greatly weakens and injures the system. It is so common, and it injures a child so slowly and gradually, that it is on the whole too lightly regarded. We shall describe the general causes, of it, and some domestic means by which it will often be remedied ; but if these fail we advise parents not to neg- lect to get medical advice for diarrhoea. A child with diarrhoea should especially not be neglected when it looks pale, when it is cold and clammy in the skin, and when it lies with its eyelids half closed. The diarrhoea of children may be divided for practical purposes into two classes :— I, that which occurs in very young children in the first few weeks or months of life ; and 2, that which occurs in children about and after the age of six months, during the period of teething. Both these fonns of diarrhoea are most apt to occur and most difficult to cure during summer and autumn. I. The Diarrhoea of very Young Children.—This generally depends on errors of diet, on artificial food,