CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 119 and so drawn through ; taking the stitches alternately on the right and left. Herringbone Stitch (Fig. 47) need scarcely be ex- plained ; we need only to remind our readers that it is very suitable for embroidering babies’ shawls and flannels. A Pretty Baby’s Robe (Fig. 38).—A very pretty baby’s robe may be made with the help of the sewing machine, with a front en tablier. A very fine muslin should be chosen for this purpose. The tucks will require a breadth about two yards long. It is best to work the tucks before cutting the material, as if there is any variation in the width, the length will not be exact. First leave five inches the six- teenth of an inch wide, and work a similar one between. Miss two inches, and repeat till the work is a yard long. Then cut it off. This tucked piece must be gored on both sides. Fold it in the middle and pin it well together and cut both sides together. The half width as it lies doubled must be gored off to five inches across the top. It is better also not to let it measure more than fourteen inches at the bottom. The five inches left are to come at the bottom, one of which is allowed for the hem. Join a plain width to this to make the skirt; but before joining, run down each side of the gored breadth a piece of em- broidery—simply a scalloped edge—carry it also across the bottom of the skirt just below the tucks, marked A to A in Fig. 38. When the skirt is completed, add a three and a half inch flounce, to be fluted all round the bottom, the edge scalloped in button-hole stitch. For the body, tuck a straight piece horizontally with small tucks close together, and cut it stomacher shape, as shown in Fig. 39, inserting it into the remainder of the body, with a brace of the scalloped muslin added each side, and straight round the back like a berthe. The sleeves are made the same as Fig. 46, but over them is a frill of the scallops. The waist and neck-band are slightly embroidered, and a simple edging placed round the neck. To obtain the stomacher pattern is not difficult; cut the bodice pattern. Fig. 30, in paper, with a pencil mark off the line of the stomacher shown in Fig. 39; cut the tucked piece stomacher-shape, and the side pieces form the re- maining portion of the pattern. A Christening Robe (Fig. 44).—To make this dress, take half a width of muslin and run tucks three and three with about four inches between each. Cut them apart. In paper cut the pattern of the front of the robe, which is to be a gore twenty-eight inches at the bottom and ten at the top. Cut the half of it in paper, and allow three inches for the centre and outside insertion. Between every three tucks place a row of insertion, laying each on the paper pattern, so as to cut them the right length and not waste the embroidery, which is expensive. Between every three tucks there must be a piece of inch-wide embroidered insertion. Cut both tucks and insertion a little longer than the pattern to allow for working-up, then neatly join them. Down the centre there is a row of embroidery, bordered each side by edging, and this is repeated at each side and carried round the bottom. A plain breadth of wide muslin completes the skirt, which is bordered all round_ by an embroidered flounce four inches deep. The body is composed of a stomacher of two tucks and one insertion, placed alternately. An insertion, double 'edged, occupies the centre, and the braces, which form a berthe behind, are of the flouncing embroidery that robes the front of the skirt. The sleeves are plain, like Fig. 46; but covered with a frill of the flouncing. The waist and neck-band are made of insertion, and a narrow edge finishes the top. Christening robes for babes are some- times made of lace instead of embroidery; but of course this requires everything en suite in richness and costliness, and is by no means necessary. Bibs (Figs. 42 and 43) can be purchased for 8d. or lod. well quilted and wadded. If made at home, cut it out in fine soft calico, and a coarser piece for the lining. Thick flannel or cotton-wool should be placed between the calico and lining, so as to absorb the moisture. Then quilt it, pipe it round, and sew on edging. COOKERY.—VIII. MEAT DISHES AT MODERATE COST. Sheep’s Trotters.—When these can be bought, as in many large towns, ready scalded and with the hair removed, they are not dear. Keep them steeped in cold water till you set them on the fire to boil, which will take at least three or four hours. When done, they may be eaten with pepper, salt, and vinegar. A nice sauce for them is, to put some fat and flour in a stewpan, to mix in smoothly some of the broth, to throw in a little chopped parsley, and season with salt and a dash of vinegar. Cold sheep’s trotters can be covered with melted fat, rolled in bread- crumbs, and broiled over a clear fire. Sheep’s Feet Pdte—(French).—Have a coarse earthen pot or pate-dish, with a well-fitting cover. Get at the tripe-shop, or of your butcher, three gangs of sheep’s feet (twelve) ready cleaned and scalded. Divide them at the joints into two or more pieces ; boil them a couple of hours; then pack them closely in the patd-dish, inter- spersing with them equally, as seasoning, sprigs of thyme and parsley, a few bay leaves, cloves, pepper, allspice, salt, and button-onions, whole. Put in the liquor in which the feet were boiled ; then put on the cover ; tie it in its place with string passed over it round the dish ; cover it down closely all round with paste, and send the pat^ to pass the night in a bakePs oven after the bread is drawn. Next morning, the pat^ will be done, and may be either eaten hot or allowed to get cold. The oven being slow, the feet will be cooked to a jelly. ■: If . the oven is too fierce, they will of course be dried up, burnt, and rendered good for nothing. When properly done, this is an excellent dish; but success entirely depends on the moderate temperature of the oven, the close fastening down of the lid with paste, and care on the part of the baker to pre~ vent its drying up. Pigs’ feet and pettitoes may be dressed in exactly the same way. Calf’s Liver, Stewed,—Choose it fresh killed, of a clear bright colour, without spots. Dr. Edward Smith, a high authority, says,* “ Liver should be cut into thin slices, aind boiled or fried with bacon. Cook it well, but not with a hot fire, and do not make it dry and hard. See that it looks healthy.” It is perhaps the part of our butchers’ meat which is most liable to be afected by disease. By our mode of dressing liver, it is just as good warmed up again as it was at first ; indeed, nobody would know, unless they were told, that this was the second, or even “ the third time of asking.” Having as much calf’s liver as your family want, cut it into pieces the size of a hen’s egg, season them with pepper and salt, roll them in flour, and let them so remain on a dish while you are doing what follows. Peel potatoes, halve or quarter them, if large; do the same with onions ; slice two or three carrots. Put some fat or dripping into a broad shallow saucepan or stewpan, and when it is melted, brown in it a soup-spoon- ful of flour. Stir in a little water ; mix well; then put in your liver, shaking it about; then enough warm water to cover it. When it boils, put in your vegetables ; when they have boiled a few minutes, draw the saucepan aside, and let them simmer till they are done enough. Taste if sufficiently seasoned. It will be a great improvement if you can put in with the vegetables a sprig of parsley, celery leaf, and thyme. Lay the pieces of liver in the middle of your dish, put the vegetables round them, and pour the gravy over all. If you fry slices of liver and bacon, thicken the grease * “ Practical Dietary,” p. 256.