CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 55 ounces of dripping or lard will make a rich crust. But many things do not want a rich crust. They are the better for its being at once substantial and light, which will somewhat depend on the cook’s expertness in the use of her rolling-pin, and in her not being afraid to employ a little of what homely folk call “ elbow-grea.se.” A few quick turns and rollings out, with judicious sprink- lings of flour between them, will often make, with the same materials, all the difference between a light crust and a heavy one. Treacle Ptiddmg.—KoW out your crust, to the thickness of from one-third to one-quarter of an inch, into an oblong shape, approaching to what learned men call “ a parallelogram,” and simpler people “a long square.” Spread this with good treacle ; then roll it into the shape of a bolster; work the ends together with your fingers, and give them a twist to keep the treacle in. Tie it up in a well-floured cloth, taking particular care of the ends. An oval boiler is the most convenient, because the pudding must not be be7it. Throw it into boiling water, and let it boil well at least two hours. Indeed, it is not easy to boil this class of puddings (roly-polies) too much, unless you sit up all night to do it. N.B. They should be kept boiling till the minute before you want to serve them. Sugar Roly-poly.—Make rather a rich crust; spread it with brown sugar, and proceed as above. Matrimony sauce (p. 27) is very nice to eat with this. Apple Roly-poly. — Peel and quarter a quantity of apples, and cut out their cores. Set them on the fire in a saucepan with a little water and a clove or two. As they boil, stir them, and mash to a pulp. It will be a great improvement if you can put with them the rind of an orange peeled thin and shred fine. Of the pulp of the orange you will have no difficulty in disposing, especially if there are children in the house. When smooth and tender, reduce your apple-pulp to a thick marmalade by letting it stand by the side of the fire to evaporate. On the Continent, a similar marmalade is made with pears, especially with windfalls after a heavy gale. Sweeten your marmalade, if required, and with it make your roly-poly as in the case of treacle- pudding. It is clear that you can make a roly-poly pudding with any description of fruit, jam, or marmalade; or you may even substitute for them a few plums and currants. Apple Dumplings.—Peel and core your apples; cut them into small pieces. Put a small handful of these into the middle of a bit of pie-crust, and with them one clove and a little lemon-peel chopped fine. It is these little additions which make things nice, and it is not the cost, but the thought and the trouble which prevent their being added. You may also put in a teaspoonful of brown sugar. Then work the crust round them, closing it at the top with a clever twist, and tie them, not too tight, nor yet too loose, in cloths floured inside, and boil galloping an hour and a half. There are recipes for baking apple-dumplings, respecting which we beg to observe that when baked they certainly are dumplings no longer, but become, turnovers, rolls, or whatever else you please. Apple Rolls.—Chop apples very fine, and sweeten them with sugar. Lay three or four tablespoonfuls of this in the middle of a circular or oval bit of paste, rolled out a quarter of an inch thick. Fold it in two lengthwise ; unite the edges, and press or scollop them with the bowl of a teaspoon, or the tines of a fork. Lay your rolls on a flat sheet of iron or baking- tin, that has been previously greased, and set into a moderate oven. To make quite sure of the apple being cooked, it will be found a good plan, instead of chopped or sliced fruit, to use apple marmalade, as made for apple roly-poly pudding. HINTS ON CARVING.—II. Carving is quite a modern art, for forks have not been introduced in Europe many centuries. The first were brought to England from Italy by Coryat, an English traveller, in 1611. In the days of our Saxon ancestors, joints of meat, poultry, and game, were brought to table on the spits on which they were cooked, and handed round to the company by the serving men on their knees. Each person cut what he pleased from the joint, using a knife which he carried at his girdle for the purpose, and tearing and conveying the pieces to his mouth with his fingers. The invention of forks is ascribed to the Italians, who used them in the fifteenth century. Other European nations fed out of the same dish, the gentlemen cutting off pieces of meat for the ladies first, and all using their fingers. The first forks were two- pronged, much like our carvers. In 1653 it had become an elegant habit to use a fork, but the roughness of the general manners at a period ignorant of forks and of the art of carving may be gleaned from the instructions given in etiquette in a little work published at the date above named, and entitled, “ The Accomplished Lady’s Rich Closet of Rarities,” in which it seems necessary to warn her against a demeanour only likely to be found amongst the very lowest mem- bers of society in our days, as the following extract shows :— “A gentlewoman being at table abroad or at home, must observe to keep her body straighte, and not lean by any means upon her elbowes; nor by' ravenous gesture discover a voracious appetite; talke net when you have meat in your mouthe, and do not smacke like a pig, nor eat spoone-meat so hot that the tears stand in your eyes. It is very uncourtly to drink so large a draught that your breath is almost gone, and you are forced to blow strongly to recover yourself; throwing doune your liquor as into a funnel is an action fitter for a juggler than a gentlewoman. In carving at your own table, distribute the best pieces first, and it will appeal' very decent and comely to use a fork, so touch no piece of meat without it.” Twenty years later than this, the Highlanders in Scot- land cut the joints of food brought to table with the daggers they wore at their sides. Even at the present day in France, which takes the lead in so many elegancies, carving is an unknown art amongst the mass of the middle classes. If a leg of mutton is brought to table, the master of the house grasps the joint in his left hand by the knuckle, and holds it up from the dish, cutting off junks of meat with a knife, commencing from the knuckle end, but without system. When about enough for the family or company has been severed from the joint, the rough-hewn lumps of mutton are transferred to a large meat dish, a fork placed at the edge, and the dish handed round by the servant. Veal and boiled beef is cut carelessly into lumps with a knife and fork, and handed round in the same way. And yet refined manners at table have been admired by the elite of all ages. Even the poet Ovid, so long ago as the Roman era, advised those who sought to gain the affections of others to be careful in their ways at table. He instructs his readers— Your meat genteelly with your lingers raise, And, as in eating there’s a certain grace, Beware with greasy hands lest you besmear your face.’* We, who have the assistance of forks, and can readily obtain instruction in the daintiest and most economical methods of cutting the food brought to table, ought to blush to be behindhand with the ancients, not only as there is in “ eating” but also in carving, “ a certain grace” most desirable to be achieved.