307 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. CHOOSING A TRADE.—I. When a boy is about thirteen years old he is generally asked what trade he would like to follow; and as the time approaches when he is to leave school he is seri- ously admonished to make up his mind whether he will be this, that, or the other. Nothing can be more unreason- able than to expect a lad to be able to answer at once a question on which it requires a great deal of experience to form an opinion; and yet it is too frequently the case that such an answer is demanded within a certain time, even though no opportunities are given for seeing the opera- tions in different manufactures, or for learning under what conditions those who work at them are placed, what will be the length of time required for becoming acquainted with the business, and how much may after- wards be earned by the skilled workman. We also mean to give instructions as to how the most important callings and professions are to be entered. Of course, all these things should be known to parents and guardians in recommending any particular business; and any particular talent and inclination displayed by the boy should also have due consideration. It is certainly of the utmost importance that an intelligent lad should be placed in some calling in the operations of which he is likely to feel an interest; and care should be taken that it is also one suited to his. health, his bodily strength, and evento his temper and disposition. In order to help not only those who have the direction of boys, and can in some measure influence their choice, but also to give boys them- selves an opportunity of learning something of the vari- ous processes of ordinary manufactures, we intend to give a few papers describing the tools, materials, and opera- tions employed in some of the most general handicrafts, as well as in a few of those that are less common, and it may be hoped that our descriptions will be interesting to the general reader. WATCHMAKING. One of the first things in which a child takes an interest, because of its wonderful mechanism, is a watch. It is almost like a live creature ; and for a long time the marvel of how its wheels and pinions keep moving, and what strange power causes the hands to move, and the seconds to be marked by “ ticks,” is a puzzle to a little boy. When he grows older he wishes he had a watch of his own, that he might take it to pieces, and so find out the mystery, and if there happens to be an old brass Dutch clock in the house, he keeps his eye on it, in the hope that some day he may be permitted to take out the toothed wheels, and the rest of the apparatus, and then put it together again, so that he may learn how it is made. Watchmaking, then, may be regarded as one of the first trades to which a boy’s attention is directed, and with that we will begin our short series. A watch consists of seventy-five parts. This is rather a startling beginning, but it may be explained by remember- ing that in such a delicate machine every portion of each wheel and spring, pin and axle, must have its distinct name, in order to prevent confusion when the parts are spoken of separately, and to enable the workman to understand the relation of every minute piece to the whole mechanism when it is put together. The principal parts of the works of a watch, however, are the pillar and upper plates, the barrel, the barrel-cover, and arbor, the fusee, with its cap, ratchet, and clicks, the going- spring and wheel, the main-spring and wheel; the centre, third, fourth, and escape-wheels ; the chain, the lever, the balance, the pendulum spring, the index, and index scale, the minute and hour-wheels, the cap, the dial, and the hands. Then there is the case of the watch, which also consists of several parts. The chain is composed of 800 pieces, and the spripgs are formed of steel of such exqui- site fineness that 4,000 of them weigh only an ounce, and are worth about ^1,000. Of course, if the watchmaker were required to form each portion of the watch from the metal, and himself manufacture the wheels, springs, pinions, and so on, the business would be one requiring the skill of the metal turner^ the whitesmith, the brass- founder, and some others ; but although in chronometers and watches of the very best description, the makers fashion a large portion of the works at the forge and anvil, and finish them with the file and other tools in their own workshop, the separate pieces of the works of ordinary watches are supplied ready made to the watch- maker, whose only business is to adjust them to each other, and form them into a timepiece. This is a busi- ness requiring great skill, patience, and delicacy of touch, and the least inaccuracy, either in any portion of the works or in fitting them together, deteriorates the watch, and prevents its keeping time, so that it is necessary to work with a strong magnifying glass when the finer por- tions are being adjusted. An immense number of the ordi- nary watches sold in London, as well as some of superior quality, are sent from Geneva and other places in Switzer- land, where whole colonies of men, women, and even chil- dren, are employed in the trade. Many of these watches are examined and regulated by English watchma’jcers, and even then can be sold at a price which is much lower than must be charged for a thoroughly good watch made in this country, although many of the different portions of the works of which most English watches are made are also sent from Switzerland and put together here. The reason of this is that common “ Geneva watches,” as they are called, are passed from hand to hand, one person doing one part and another another, and the want of unity in the workmanship often renders them defective ; whereas, in England, a first-rate watch is begun and finished frequently by one person, and generally by not more than two, so that it is, as it were, all of a piece, and is so adapted as to go without deviation. A good workman will take a watch to pieces and re-make it twenty times, in order to discover in what part of it is the slight imperfec- tion that causes it to gain or lose two or three seconds in a day ; but it is only reasonable to suppose that he must be paid for this patient labour, as indeed he is, by the best kinds of watches still fetching a very high price, since no machinery can ensure the complete accuracy to be obtained by a keen eye, a skilful hand, and a thoughtful observation of causes and effects in so delicate a construction. The trade of the watchmaker is, in this respect, a laborious one, because of the intense application it re- quires in order to attain the requisite skill, and though, when the various parts are made in the workshop, there is a change of occupation, the actual business of fitting the parts together often requires long sitting in a fatigu- ing position, and very close attention, both of which may be borne, however, by those who are interested in fine mechanical operations. Of course the wages of the journeyman watchmaker vary according to his ability. When employed in some of the workshops where an inferior watch is made, or Geneva watches re-adjusted, the earnings are often not more than from twenty to twenty-five shillings a week; but in other descriptions of work, thirty to forty-five shillmgs may be earned; and there are so few who can undertake the reajly fine work, that good wages may be obtained by a first-rate hand, most of them, however, preferring to go into business for themselves, and to depend on private trade, which they unite with piece-work obtained from larger manufacturers. To give any idea of the manner in which the works of a watch are set in motion, in order to mark the divisions of time and record the hour, we must imitate the boy of whom we spoke, and go back to the clock—in fact, a watch is only a small clock put in a case, and having a wheel for a pendulum, and a spring for a weight. Of