POULTRY. 2i8 week—is hard-boiled eggs, chopped small, mixed with nothing bat minced dandelion. When dandelions cannot be obtained—and it is well worth while to grow them where turkeys are reared—boiled nettles chopped fine are perhaps the best substitute. At the end of a week or ten days some bread-crumbs and barley-meal may gradually be added to the egg, which may be by degrees lessened, until quite discontinued at the end of three weeks. About this time, a portion of boiled potato forms an excellent addition to the food, and by degrees some small grain may be added also—in fact, assimilating the diet very much to that of other poultry. Curds also are excellent as a portion of the dietary, but must be squeezed very dry before they are given. They are easiest prepared by adding a pinch of alum to a quart of milk slightly warmed. By this feeding, the little chicks will get well through their first great danger—the tendency to diarrhoea already alluded to ; and the cost of the egg will be repaid by the extra number reared. The second peril to be guarded against is cold and damp ; a wetting is absolutely fatal. The chicks should be kept entirely under a shed, on a board floor kept scrupulously clean and nicely sanded, except during settled sunny weather, when they may be allowed a little liberty on the grass, after the dew is quite dry. But in cold or windy weather, however fine, they must be kept in the shed, and well screened from the wind. If there be a one-storey building, their best place will be the top floor, the bottom being devoted to the sitting hens and other adult stock. Their water also must be so supplied that they cannot wet themselves by any possibility ; and these precautions must be continued till they are nine or ten weeks old, when they will begin to “ put out the red,” as it is called, or to develop the singular red excrescences on the neck so characteristic of the turkey breed. This process will last some little time, and when completed the birds will be pretty fully fledged. They are now hardy, but must not be suddenly exposed to rain or cold winds. Take reasonable care of them for awhile longer, and very soon they will have become the hardiest birds known in tne poultry-yard, braving with impunity the fiercest storms, and even preferring, if per- mitted, to roost on high trees through the depth of winter. In fact, turkeys will rarely roost in a fowl-house ; and a very high open shed should therefore be provided—the higher the better—the perches being placed as high as possible. The ordinary domestic turkey is of two kinds —the N orfolk (black all over) and the Cambridge. The latter is of all colours—the best, to our fancy, being a dark copper bronze ; but fawn colour and pure white are often seen, as are also variegated birds, which occasionally present a very magnificent appearance. The dark Cam- bridge usually attains the greatest size. The Guinea-fowl mates in pairs, and an equal number of males and females must therefore be provided, to prevent disappointment. In commencing, it is needful to procure some eggs and set them under a common hen ; for if old birds be purchased they will wander off for miles as soon as they are set at liberty, and never return ; indeed, no fowl gives such trouble from its wandering habits. If hatched in the poultry-yard, how- ever, and regularly fed, they will remain; but must always have one meal regularly at night, or they will scarcely ever roost at home. Nothing, however, will ])crsuade them to sleep in the fowl-house, and they usually roost in the lower branches of a tree. The hen hays pretty freely from May or June to about August. She is a very shy bird, and if eggs are taken from her nest with her knowledge, will forsake it altogether, and seek another, which she conceals with the most sedulous care. A few should therefore always be left, and the nest never be visited when she is in sight. It is best to give the earliest eggs to a common hen, as the Guinea-fowl herself frequently sits too late to rear a brood. If “ broody ” in due season, however, she rai'ely fails to hatch nearly all. Incubation is from twenty-six to twenty-nine or thirty days. The chicks require food almost immediately—within, at most, six hours after hatching—and should be fed and cared for in the same manner as young turkeys, though they may be allowed rather more liberty. It should be observed, however, that they require more constant feeding than any other chickens, a few hours’ abstinence being fatal to them ; and they need also rather more animal food to rear them successfully and keep them in good condition, especially in the winter. The flesh of the Guinea-fowl is of exquisite flavour, much like that of the pheasant. The body about equals in size an ordinary Dorking, and is very plump and well-proportioned. DISEASES OF POULTRY. When the stock is provided, let it be not only attended to as described in our last paper, but carefully observed occasionally for symptoms of disease. Loss of Feathers is almost always caused either by want of green food, or having no dust-bath. Let these wants therefore be properly supplied, removing the fowls, if possible, to a grass run. For local application, we prefer an unguent composed of sulphur and creosote, but nothing will bring back the feathers before the next moult. Roup is always caused by wet, or very cold winds. It begins with a common cold, and terminates in an offensive discharge from the nostrils and eyes, often hanging in froth about them. It is highly contagious, the disease being, as we believe, communicated by the sickly fowl’s beak contaminating the drinking water; therefore, let all fowls affected by it be at once put by themselves, and have a separate water-vessel. Keep them warm, and feed with meal only, mixed with hot ale instead of water; give every day internally a capsule of copaiba, and wash the head and eyes with Labarraque’s so- lution of chlorinated soda, diluted with two parts of water. Under this treatment the birds affected will rapidly im- prove in most cases. Roup runs its course rapidly, and in a week the bird will either be almost well or so nearly ■ dead that it had better be killed at once. It is the disease of poultry, and to be dreaded accordingly; fortunately, the symptoms are specific, and the treatment equally so. Much may be done to guard against contagion by dis- infecting ail drinking vessels with carbolic acid, or Condy’s disinfecting fluid. Diarrhiza may be caused either by cold, wet weather, with inadequate shelter ; neglect in cleansing the house and run; or from the reaction after constipation caused by too little green food. In this case, feed on warm barley meal, liberally sprinkled with powdered chalk ; and at first administer, four times a day, three drops of camphorated spirit on a pill of meal. This will usually effect a cure. If the evacuations become coloured with blood, the diarrhoea has passed into dysentery, and re- covery is almost hopeless. Another prescription is one grain each of opium and ipecacuanha, with five grains of chalk ; but the camphorated spirit we consider a better remedy. Soft^ Eggs are generally caused by over-feeding the hens, in which case the remedy is self-evident. It may, however, occur from want of lime, which must then be supplied, the best form being calcined and pounded oyster-shells. Sometimes it is- occasioned by fright, from being driven about, but in that case will right itself in a day or two. If perfect eggs are habitually dropped on the ground, the proprietor should see whether the nests do not need purifying. This leads us to Insect Vermin, which can only be troublesome from gross neglect, either of the fowls or their habitations. 1 he remedy is a dust-bath, mixed with powdered coke or