185 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. come loose, so that the glasses swing without check. Common looking-glasses have for their backs a thin veneer of wood, set in with brads. Those of a better kind are made with backs to slide in like the sliding lid of a box, and are then fixed with a screw. It is best to give a high price, and have the frames of the glass better finished. It is true that at first the screws appear firm, but in a short time a slight rattle is heard between the glass and the wood at the back, occasioned by the nuts of the screws falling off. It may seem easy enough to put these on again, and it certainly is so with proper tools ; but these are not always at hand, and the work requires the most deli- cate handling, to prevent the nuts from scratching, or the finger tips from rubbing off the quick- silver. Some glasses are fastened in such a way that only a cabinet-maker can remedy their defects. Many schemes have been adopted for the greater perfection of this fastening, but none are wholly successful in glasses of mode- rate cost; but, as looking- glasses are rarely purchased more than once in a lifetime, the price for a good article should not be an object. Oval looking - glasses have one defect, they show only the face and head, the remaining part of the figure being cut off; therefore, however handsome they look, they are not de- sirable for persons with small means, who cannot afford a cheval glass. There are a great variety of toilette-tables, from the simple table with one drawer, to the duchess table with many drawers and with swing-glass fixed and standing on pedestals, which are really smallnests of drawers. Others have, in ac!dition, from three to five draw ers below the top of the table on each side ; this style is termed knee - hole drawers, and is most useful. A japanned toilette-table with one drawer can be had for 9s. One unpainted, with- out drawers, but with turned legs, oval-shaped in front, and four feet long, may be had for the same price ; the one requires only a toilette-cloth over the top, the last must have pink cambric surround- ing it, and be covei'ed again withbookmuslingathered like a full skirt round the table ; or with dimity, bordered with one stripe of coloured bordering taken from the coloured striped dimity. This is a cheap and excellent method of bordering curtains hung before a recess to simulate a wardrobe, or for the coverings of a toilette-table. Three yards of coloured striped dimity cost 3s., and from this twenty-one yards of bordering can be rent. It must be recollected that, inexpensive as these tables and coverings appear to be, they are ultimately rendered very dear by the cost of washing the coverings. More- over, there is something to be considered in their great danger of taking fire. A mahogany toilette-table, a yard long, surrounded by a rim, and having two drawers, can be purchased for 24s.; one four feet long—and this is of ample size for any ordinary room—for 38s.; but with an increased num- ber of drawers, seven instead of two, and arranged on each side, to leave a vacant space in the centre, thus forming a knee-hole table, it will cost from 90s. to £6 or £8. Every toilette-table should move on casters; the cheap ones are without them, and their addi- tion increases the expense, unless the matter be arranged between the intending buyer and seller, before purchasing. Marble- topped tables are not desirable. Articles of glass and china may be placed on them with careless hands, and in a hurry such wares are often broken. A servant’s bed-room should have as few articles in it as are consistent with comfort. A bed and bedstead, with two soft mattresses, a pillow, three blankets, two soft un- bleached sheets and pillow- slip, a soft and inexpensive coloured counterpane, a chest of drawers, a looking-glass, wash-stand, with the usual re- quisites of white ware, and a chair, are all that is needed. One of the most comfortable bedsteads is the truckle or cross bedstead. These have gone very much out of fashion, but they are portable, inexpensive, and desirable to sleep on. The next in point of comfort is the iron bedstead, be- cause the interlacing laths are flexible. In the matter of cleanliness, wood and iron bedsteads are equal; the latter do not prevent bed insects from congregating, but the iron is easily cleaned and painted. From wooden bed- steads insects may also be wholly extirpated by washing in strong brine and boiling water. The skirtings and cracks in the walls, doors, and window - frames, also need the same process. Figs. 4, 5, 6, and 7, are pat- terns of furniture for a ser- vant’s room. The less carpet laid on the floor of a servant’s room, the healthier and freer from dirt it will be. Once a week, the boards should be washed with salt and water, in winter and summer. A clock is essential in the bedroom, but it should be an eight- day brass clock, which is inexpensive, and this clock should be locked in a box having a glass cover, the box being placed so that the cover opens like a cup- board door. An alarum clock is useless ; the sleeper, after a morning or two, gets accustomed to the sound, and sleeps on regardless of her excellent friend. Fig. 6. Fig. 7.