GARDENING. 240 earlier, by which the cold night dews will be sooner and more gently dissipated, and the scorching effects of the afternoon’s sun earlier off the trees. The next consideration is the construction of these walls ; so far as we have been able to judge, the upright form is preferable to any other. The foundation for them should be dug out no deeper than the thickness of the soil upon the surface, in order that no more of the wall may be lost than necessary, or, in other words, that economy may be studied in rearing or building of them. It is necessary that they should be built solid, that is to say, on a good foundation, and not upon arches, as ad- and helps to mix and pulverise the ground, as well as to change the surface. (Fig. i.) Gardeners complain that their ground is worn out, or will not produce certain kinds of vegetables, when it is neither poor nor un- manured. The real cause is neglecting to change the surface. The best method with which we are acquainted for the preservation of the fertility of the soil, is this ; to take three crops off the first surface, and then trench the ground three spits (or spades) deep, which operation is performed by first opening a trench two or three feet wide, carrying the soil so taken out to the other end of the plot, where the work will necessarily finish; vised by some, for when so built, it gives the roots of the then another strip the same width is to be begun, and one trees liberty to grow out at the back of the wall. When walls are of any length, and the foun- dation not of first-rate quality, they may be strengthened by projecting buttresses, set at stated intervals, but unless such support be absolutely necessary, the face of the wall pre- sents a very much better appearance without them, and is much more convenient for wall fruit if it be perfectly smooth and even. As regards copings, there are many opinions. There can, however, in our opinion, be no objection to a tempo- rary coping of boards, pro- jecting a foot or eighteen inches. We come to another point, and that is, the materials necessary for the construction of them. Bricks should be chosen for the superstructure, and stone for the founda- tion and basement. If the wall is not entirely built of brick, it should at least be faced with it on the south-east and west aspects. If durable stone can be obtained, the basement of the wall should be built of it, in preference to bricks. The basement of all walls should be some inches thicker than the superstructure. Wooden walls are sometimes adopted in small gardens, but, although good fruit may be produced from them, they are not durable, and on that account we do not undertake to recommend them. Trenching, Ridging, Ma- nuring.—The kitchen garden should include herbs and vegetables enough to furnish an ample supply at every season ; and it must also be kept in good order. The soil of a garden should be frequently pulverised, to render it sweet, free, and rich; or it will not produce early, well-flavoured, and handsome plants. The soil must be sweet, that the nutriment which the roots receive may be wholesome ; free, that they may be at full liberty to range in quest of it; and rich, that there may be no defect in the food produced. Vegetables cannot wander in search of food, which must, therefore, be pro- vided for them, in accordance with their habits and con- stitutions. The fibres of roots take up the nutriment which they find in the soil, and the freer the soil is, the more the absorbing fibres will increase, to the conse- quently greater vigour of the plants. Hence the soil is to be' pulverised, not only before planting or sowing, but during the growth of vegetables, if space permits. The depth of pulverisation will depend on the nature of the soil; in clayey land it can hardly be too deep. Soils are greatly improved by exposure to air, hence the importance of ridging and trenching. Ridges form a series of nearly equilateral triangles connected at their bases, thus doubling the surface exposed to the atmo- sphere. (Fig. 2.) Tretiching is appropriate on all soils. spit of the top surface {a. Fig. i) is to be thrown to the bottom of the first trench {a). The next spit under if), must be cast upon the first in the same way, and the third (r) upon the second, by which means the top and bottom spits are re- versed, and the middle remains in the centre as previously, only somewhat displaced. Three crops should be taken off this surface also, and then trenched two spits deep, as before, turning the surface spit to the bottom, and the second to the top, by which the middle becomes the top, and the top the middle. Take also three crops off this surface, and then trench three spits, by doing which, that which has been the middle and the top, becomes the bottom, and the original surface now becomes sur- face again, after having had six years’ rest. Proceed in this manner alternately, trenching one time two spits deep, and the next three, by which means the surface will always be changed, and will rest six years and produce three. The next thing to claim our attention is manure, the use of which is of so much importance that almost everything in culture may be said to de- pend upon it. When manure is applied, the ground should never be overdone with it ; a little at a time, and often, is much better than an abundance at once, and only now and then ap- plied ; for when used in great quantities, and lying in lumps, it encourages worms, grubs, and other insects, and forces the plants to grow too rampant and rank. Vegetables are always sweetest where least dung is used at once. There are various ways of applying manure, depending chiefly upon the season of the year, the sort to be used, and the condition it is in. When the superficial soil is much exhausted, it is a good way to dig it over late in the autumn, and spread some good rotten manure on the surface, and to let it lie till towards spring, or till the ground is wanted, before it is dug in. This method is particularly suitable for land on which superficial growing crops, such as leeks, onions, radishes, and the like are. When the ground is to be manured at the time of plant- ing, the best way is to spread the manure on the surface, previous to digging, and to dig it in immediately, and particularly so in spring and summer, for if left exposed to the action of the sun and air, the greater portion of its nutritive matter will be lost by evaporation, or otherwise. Manure may be applied either as a simple or as a com- pound, but the latter is the most eligible where a well- flavoured crop is the leading consideration, for if it has not undergone a proper fermentation, its effects will ne- cessarily give the vegetables a rank and disagreeable flavour.