CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 283 lump of butter in flour. Put it in a stewpan with the onions ; moisten gradually with a little of your eel broth. When the onions are tender, add the rest of the liquor (removing the herbs and the lemon-peel), stirring it in gradually, with a teacupful of fresh milk. Throw in your eel meats, and set the soup aside until they are hot through. While they are so heating, you may further thicken with a couple of egg-yolks, well worked into a little of the liquor. Taste if sufficiently seasoned. You will find an almost imperceptible dust of sugar an im- provement. In fact, most white soups, even when seasoned with salt, are the better for a sprinkling with sugar. B7'own Eel Soup.—Proceed as before, only, instead of boiling the eels, fry them brown, after rolling them in flour, bread-crumbs, or batter. Open, take out the bones, and set aside. Fry chopped onions brown in butter, browning afterwards enough flour to thicken your soup without egg-yolks. Stir in gradually either water or stock; 1 during the process, season as before. When it has had a ! good boil, remove the herbs, &c. Put in your eel, and if you will, you may add at the same time a glass of white wine. After one boil up, serve, accompanied by bread dice toasted or fried. Similar soups can be made with other firm-fleshed, middle-sized fish, as small conger, soles, &c. By the same treatment, cold remnants of fish, of various kinds, both boiled and fried, may be economised by appearing in novel and palatable forms of soup. They can be enriched by any lobster, oyster, or anchovy sauce that is left. If you happen to have a few shrimps, pick a handful; boil their shells ; w'ith a little of the liquor give a slight flavour of shrimps to the soup, at the same time that you throw in your shrimp meats. These soups bear a dust of cayenne and sugar, and should be accompanied by bread or rolls. Salmon Soup may also be made with the remains of a fish that has appeared at table. As soon as removed, and while still hot, take all the flesh from the bones and skin. The entire quantity should be something between one and j tv/o pounds. Divide it into two portions. One half, con- 1 sisting of handsome bits and flakes, you set aside ; the other, broken odds and ends, you pound in a mortar with a little cream, any remnants of lobster (the coral especially), a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and two hard yolks of egg. Have ready a sufficiency of good veal or chicken broth, flavoured >vith vegetables, to make your soup. Put butter in a stewpan ; brown flour in it; stir in a little broth ; then mix in your pounded salmon, &c.; then the rest of your broth. Season with pepper, salt, and perhaps cayenne. Throw in your reserved flakes of salmon, and, if you like, a few force-meat balls. After one boil up, serve.—N.B. This soup may be made, partly at least, with the boilings of the salmon, if the fish were very fresh. Bouille-a-baisse, or Boiiillabesse.—Allow a pound of fish and four or five mussels or oysters (if used) per head ; six pounds of fish for a dinner of six guests. Red and grey gurnards, haddocks, whitings, codlings, mackerel, ling, carp, red and grey mullet, plaice, soles, weevers, small craw-fish, or lobsters, figure admirably in a Bouillabesse. Cut your fish into pieces of a size convenient to help with a spoon. Chop onions fine, and toss them over the fire in butter without browning them. Arrange all the pieces of fish (mixing the different kinds) in a little caul- dron or wide shallow stewpan. Pour over them a liberal allowance of the best olive-oil. Add the chopped and tossed-up onions, a clove or more of garlic, a bay-leaf or two, a few slices of lemon, two or three tomatoes, or a little tomato-sauce, salt, a very small pinch of saffron (try, first, a single thread, or dried pistil of the flower; the flavour is so peculiar that it must not predominate, and yet there must be saffron), and a glass of white wine. Fill up with cold water until the fish is entirely covered, and set the stew-pan on a brisk lire. Skim as it comes to a boil; let it boil from ten to fifteen minutes (j.e., take it off the fire when the fish is cooked enough—^just before it is enough), and throw in a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, which will turn to a beautiful bright green. Arrange the pieces of fish on a dish by themselves. At the bottom of a deep dish, or soup-tureen, lay slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, and over them pour the liquor of the Bouillabesse, removing the garlic, the lemon, and the bay-leaves. The two dishes are sent to table- together, and the guests ought to help themselves at the same time to the contents of each. MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS. Tapioca Soup.—Wash the required quantity of tapioca in cold water. Let it steep therein a few minutes. Drain it; set it on the fire in a saucepan with a little more of the cold stock than will cover it; let it come to a boil slowly, then boil about ten minutes. When the tapioca is quite clear and tender, put it into the rest of your hot stock, and serve. Large-grained tapioca looks best in soup. Sago and semolina soups are prejjared in the same way. Vermicelli Soup.—^xftcik. the vermicelli into three-inch lengths, or thereabouts. It is unnecessary to steep it ; but rinsing it in cold water will get rid of dust, floury par- ticles, &c., and often be the means of keeping the soup clear. Put on your vermicelli in a little more of your stock, cold, than will cover it, and let it boil till quite tender without dissolving. It will take from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, according to its degree of dryness. Add this to your hot stock, and serve. Vermi- . celli soup and the following may be accompanied by grated white or yellow cheese, for the guests who like it to dust over the soup in their plates. Macaroni Sojtp.—As above, only break into shorter lengths, and steep an hour or two in cold water before boiling the macaroni in the stock. Julieiine Soup {Potage a la Jiilienne).—Take an equal quantity of turnips and carrots ; a much smaller quantity of onions, leeks, and celery. Cut all these into little strips two or three inches long, and not more than an eighth of an inch broad. To save time, there are instruments for cutting roots rapidly into strips for Jzilienne., so highly is this soup esteemed. The vegetables may also be bought ready cut, preserved, and dried, which is convenient at certain seasons of the year (Julienne is really a spring and summer soup), and for sailors and other travellers. Add to these a small proportion of chopped lettuce, chervil, and sorrel. Toss the roots first in very fresh butter, then add the herbs, and moisten the whole with good clear stock. Boil an hour. Either pour the whole over crusts in your tureen, or omit the bread altogether, which is the more usual and modern practice. In that case, the proportion of vegetables ought to be greater, and you may add to those already mentioned green peas, kidney beans (boiled separately), sliced artichoke bottoms (ditto), green asparagus chopped short, &c. This soup is the better for a lump or two of sugar—-just little enough not to betray itself. White Soups can be made by employing milk, with rice, vermicelli, macaroni, arrowroot, sago, semolina, tapioca, and pearl barley. The process is the same as when broth is used, only greater care must be taken to prevent burning and boiling over. Add a little sugar and a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower water. Note that in all soups to which sugar is added, there still requires a dust of salt. These soups may also be thickened by raw yolks of egg, carefully and gradually stirred into a little of the liquor, which must not boil. Half milk and half stock is a good proportion for white soups. INVALID EROTHS AND BEVERAGES. Plasty Broth.—Of the fleshy parts of beef and veal, with a fair proportion of fat, take a pound each, and chop