CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 339 ever, be examined a little more narrowly, and we then find that it requires a slight modification before we can accept it. For after all it is not the food itself, but the substance of the body, which is burnt. We must remember that, even if no food is eaten, the slow burning of the body goes on as long as the life of the animal lasts. It is, therefore, evident that, although it is ultimately burnt, the immediate object of the food is to repair the body—to make up for its incessant losses. Let us look for a moment at the changes which the food undergoes when eaten. It first goes to the stomach, and is there subjected to the beautiful cooking process which is called digestion. We shall have more to say about this farther on, and need only remark here, that by it the food is converted into a creamy liquid. This passes on into the intestines, and hence, by a most elaborate and wonderful process, it is absorbed into and becomes a part of the blood. All the food which acts any useful part in the body is first converted into blood. The blood—the mighty river of life, as it has been called—rushes with amazing force and swiftness through every part of the body. And it is from the blood that the constantly-wasting organs of the body, muscles, bones, nerves, and all derive their nutriment; it is by it that their losses are compensated. Finally, to make an end of this part of the wonderful story, it is by the blood that the worn-out, burnt, and now useless materials are removed from the organs and thrown out of the. body. Different functions of Food.—Hitherto we have as- sumed, for the sake of simplicity, that the whole heat of the body is derived from the combustion of the living organs of the body, and, as a consequence, that all the food, after it is converted into blood, is absorbed by and becomes a part of those organs. But this is not really the case, and we are therefore led to take another step onward in our inquiry. The new step will involve a little additional labour of thought, but it is well worth the effort, for it is absolutely necessary if we wish to attain an accurate and scientific knowledge of the nature of food. It has been found that the heat produced by the burning of the organs of the body, is only a small part of the whole heat of the body. The rest of the heat is pro- duced by the direct combustion of the blood itself So that although all the useful food is converted into blood, only a portion of that blood is employed in repairing the muscles and other organs of the body. We are thus led to perceive that there are two different uses to which the food which is eaten and converted into blood has to minister. The first is the repair of the organs, and the second the direct production of heat in the blood. And it is a very singular and interesting fact, that side by side with this distinction between the offices of food, there is an equally well marked distinction between the qualities of different kinds of food. Some of the most important constituents of food are utterly different in composition from the solid organs of the body. They cannot, under any circumstances, be employed in the body for the repairing of those organs. They are only valuable for the heat they produce when they are burnt in the blood; in other words, they are mere fuel. Food of this kind is conveniently described as heat-producing food. On the other hand, there is another great class of food- ingredients, which consists of articles almost identical in composition with the organs which have to be repaired. Let us, for the sake of simplicity, confine our attention to those very important organs, the muscles, which con- stitute what is generally called the flesh of the animal. A large portion of all food has almost exactly the same chemical composition as flesh. It cannot be doubted that the main purpose of food of this kind is to form flesh, and it is therefore known as flesh-forming food. Nevertheless, it is important to remember that this term does not convey the whole truth in regard to this kind of food. For some part of the so-called flesh-forming food does not become converted into flesh, but is burnt in the blood, like the heat-food. And even that part of it which does become flesh is afterwards, as we before explained, wasted away and burnt, so that although heat-food can never act as flesh-food, flesh-food can, and does act as heat-food. Dr. Savory fed some rats for a considerable time entirely on flesh-forming food, and he found that they remained in good health and retained their ordinary heat; but this experiment, though very interesting as illustrating the double office of flesh-food, must not be understood as proving that heat-food may be dispensed with, for most animals would suffer very seriously upon such a diet, and require a properly-balanced proportion of the two kinds of food. Work done by the Body.—There is yet another aspect of this subject which must not be left unnoticed. The body is not only a producer of heat—it is a very powerful engine. The muscles of the body are in reality machines for doing work. And the work they do is much greater than most people have any idea of. A strong man can easily do in a day as much work as though he lifted 350 tons a foot high. The heart itself, the most powerful and the most untiring of the muscles, pumps out the blood which passes into it with a force which appears almost incredible. At every beat it throws out five or six ounces of blood, and in twenty-four hours from fourteen to nineteen tons ! The force required to do this would lift fourteen sacks of coals to the top of the Monument at London Bridge. The whole of this enormous daily work is done at the expense of the food consumed, as certainly as the work done by a steam-engine is done at the expense of the coals burnt in the boiler-fire. And it appears probable that the parallel is still closer, for as in the steam engine the work is done, not by the coals, but by the heat produced from the coals, so the work of the animal body is done by means of the heat developed in it, and the whole of this heat, as we have already seen, comes ultimately from the food. It was, until lately, believed that all the work of the body was done by the burning of the muscles themselves. If this were true, it is evident that flesh-forming food would be the only kind which would be of any use for the doing of work. But this has been clearly shown to be a mistake, and it is now held to be highly probable that both kinds of food, inasmuch as they both produce heat in the body, are alike serviceable for the doing of work. The practical importance of the question will be perceived at once. Men who do hard work eat more than others, and unless they know the right kind of food to eat, it is obviously possible that they may be cramming themselves with large quantities of food which is of little or no real use to them. We shall havemore to say on this subjecthereafter. Classification of Food.—We may now attempt to form a classification of the constituents of food, which, without pretending to purely scientific completeness, shall yet be sufficient for the practical purposes which we have in view. It is very difficult to frame a thoroughly satisfactory definition of food. Perhaps the simplest is that which includes under it everything which is assimi- lated in the body, and which is necessary or useful to it. Taken in this wide sense, the term must be applied to some substances which are not generally reckoned under it. Water for instance, common salt, and, even medicine, must in this view be regarded as food, and, in accordance with it, we will divide the materials of food into the four following heads :— 1. Flesh-formers. 2. Heat-givers. 3. Mineral food. 4. Stimulants, spices, flavours, &c. The two last of these may be dismissed for the present with very few remarks. We shall have much to say hereafter about water, and something about salt. The