126 FURNITURE. indestructible, and having two surfaces they are really double. They are soft to the touch, being all wool; if hard, the wool is mixed with hemp or other harsh sub- stance, and will then quickly wear out. They will wash well—a process neither difficult nor troublesome when done at home—and wear better after the process than previously; but allowance will have to be made in the quantity of carpet purchased for the shrinking occasioned by this cleansing. The designs on Kidderminster carpets are rarely ever suitable for sitting-rooms, the green moss or small green-and-black coral pattern excepted. These are in good taste, but cannot everywhere be met with, and are expensive. Some really good woven imitations of this kind of carpet, in pattern and quality, are to be met with in wide width for 3s. 6d. or 4s. a yard. The quality of Brussels or velvet-pile carpets may be ascertained in the same way that a lady tests the excel- lence of her velvets—by bending down the surface of the fabric with the lines running lengthways; it will then be seen how dose the lines of wool are to each other, and upon this degree of closeness depends the quality of the carpeting. Also, if the back of the carpet—that is, the foundation upon which the wool is woven—looks coarse and loose, it will wear badly. Tapestry carpeting is distin- guished from Brussels by each colour of the latter being woven in separately, the wool never being cut, but carried over or underneath another colour; while tapestry is woven entirely of one tint, and then the brightest, most attractive colours are printed upon it. Of course this cannot wear like Brussels, neither can the gradations of shade or luxu- riance of tint be found in the latter as in tapestry ; so a pur- chaser has to choose between strength and beauty. A Brussels carpet having many colours is very expensive, but it wears well. Finger-plates of white china are easily put on, and prevent finger-marks; but they should be fixed both above and below the key-hole, and as close to it and the edge of the door as possible. In the two rooms there will need to be—a couch, one or two easy-chairs, eight other chairs, and a chiffonnier, one centre-table, also one to form a dining-table in the back room. In most houses, low-rented ones excepted, the useful low cupboards have gone much out of fashion; the upper part of these, where they exist, above the top slab, should be utilised as book-cases, which are not difficult to make, nor expensive to have made, consisting entirely of shelves; but whatever number they may be, each should have a strip of leather or leather-cloth two inches in depth, to protect the upper part of the books from dust. A Chiffonnier is one of the most useful pieces of furniture in every room. When made plainly of ma- hogany it does duty for a sideboard where the latter would be too expensive an article, or the room too small to admit one. If it be placed in the front and superior room, the addition of glass in the doors and back makes a room look lighter and gayer, but this adds somewhat consider- ably to the expense. Glass does not look well set in mahogany; it should have rosewood or walnut, in which woods a very pretty chiffonnier can be obtained at from six to eight pounds—but then the tables and chairs should match. Chairs.—The best material for covering chairs is Utrecht plush, which will bear excessive use for twenty years. It has never been made popular in England by furniture makers, but it is the most economical, even if the expense be greater in the first instance than woollen rep, which is the next best thing to it. The latter must be all wool, otherwise there is no wear in it; very good can be had from 6s. to los. a yard, double width. It is best to pur- chase the chairs ready covered; still, old ones may be made to look like new, and be covered at home with comparatively little expense. In the back sitting-room there should be a dining-table, which may have a deal top if expense be an object. Its size must depend upon that of the room. And here we recommend that, as far as possible, the meals of the family should be taken in the back room. Easy Chairs.—There is more care required in the selection of these necessary articles than in almost any other. Some appear as if they were arranged rather for penitential chairs than anything else. The back aches, or the neck becomes stiff, when sitting in them, although perhaps they look truly comfortable till they are tried. The cane-seated arm-chairs (Fig. i) are useful and inex- pensive, but are a nuisance if they creak. The very best of them may be had for 17s. 6d.; also one of the same kind termed the Derby chair, which is without arms, and if not cane-seated to match the arm-chair, is made of laths, the cost being about 4s. 6d. This can be padded, cushioned, and covered in chintz or worsted rep, and thus it makes a most comfortable easy-chair for a lady, in which she can work or read; quite as pleasant to sit in as many of the more expensive. Our engraving will show the kind that is meant. Wmdow-curtains.—For these the best material is good woollen damask ; it wears well and keeps its colour, and may be after four years re-dipped and calendered, and will look like new. Very good quality can be purchased for less than 5s. a yard, double width. Good rep will cost double the price, and is only suitable for lofty and large rooms. A Chimney-glass, by its shape or size, gives either a common or a refined aspect to a room. If it be possible to afford one higher than it is broad, but nearly the breadth of the chimney-piece, it will look far better than one which is wider than it is high. Very good ones indeed may be purchased for ^5 ; and it is better to sacrifice something else in the room, and expend the money on a good glass. One with a neat-patterned frame, gilt all round, with scrolls at the bottom of the two sides, always looks well and appropriate; while glasses with a non- descript gilt ornament in the centre of the top look pre- tentious and vulgar. Fenders atid Fire-irons, more in their shape than their quality, give a look of refinement and culture about the room. The pretty twisted irons, neither too small nor too large for the grate, should be chosen rather than those with a plain surface. The first are more easily kept clean than the last, and do not look so shabby if they have been neglected in the cleaning ; but if they be cleaned daily, and the bright poker and shovel are used as much as they need to be, they are easily kept bright, unless ruined by the dangerous practice of putting the poker into the fire, and letting it remain till red-hot. A plain fender, bronzed, with a flat steel rim, upon which the feet may be put to warm if needed, looks better than one of a more elaborate pattern, which is difficult to keep free from dust. It would be quite useless, in these days of “ follow my Fig. I.