POULTRY. i68 POULTRY.—VI. THE FATTENING OF CHICKENS {continuedfromp. 147). In front of each compartment, as described in our last paper, there should be a ledge three inches wide, on which to place the food and water tins. The latter must be replenished once, the former three times a day; and after each meal the pens should be darkened for half the time until the ne.\t, by hanging a cloth over the front. This cloth is best tacked along at the top, when it can be conveniently hung over or folded back as required. The two hours’ darkness ensures quiet and thorough digestion ; but it is not desirable, though often done, to keep the lairds thus the whole time till the next meal, as the chickens will have a much better appe- tite on the plan we recommend. The best food for fattening is buckwheat-meal, when on a small scale, everything must go upon system ; and that system is, to kill the chickens the very day they are ready for it. If extra weight and fat is wanted, the birds may be crammed during the last ten days of the fattening period, but not before. The meal is to be rolled up the thickness of a finger, and then cut up into pellets an inch and a half long. Each morsel must be dipped in water before it is put into the bird’s throat, when there will be no difficulty in swallowing. The quantity to be given can only be learnt by experience. For home use, however, nothing can equal a chicken never fattened at all, but just taken out of the yard. If well fed, there will be plenty of good meat, and the fat of a fowl is to most persons no particular delicacy. In any case, however, the chicken must be kept without food twelve hours before it is killed. ROUEN AND AYLESBURY DUCKS. it can be obtained ; and it is to the use of this grain that the French owe, in a great measure, the splendid fowls they send to market. If it cannot be procured, the best substitute is an equal mixture of Indian and barley-meal. Each bird should have as much as it will eat at one time, but no food must be left to become sour : a little barley may, however, be scattered on the ledge. The meal may be mixed with skim milk, if available. A little minced green food should be given daily, to keep the bowels in jiropcr order. In three weeks the process ought to be completed. It must be borne in mind that fat only is added by thus penning a chicken ; the lean or flesh must be made be- fore, and unless the chicken has attained the proper standard in this respect, it is useless even to attempt to fatten it. Hence the importance of high feeding from the very shell. The secret of rearing chickens profitably is, to get them ready for the table at the earliest possible period, and not lot them live a sini^le day aficr. Every such day is a dead loss, for they cannot be kept fat. Once up to the mark, if not killed they get feverish, and begin to waste away again. To make poultry profitable, even There are various modes of killing—all of them very- effectual in practised hands. One is to give the bird a very sharp blow, with a short but heavy stick, behind the neck, about the second joint from the head, which will, if properly done, sever the spine and cause death very speedily. Another is to clasp the bird’s head in the hand, and swing the body round by it—a process which also kills by parting the vertebree. M. Soyer recommends that the joints be pulled apart, which can easily be effected by seizing the head in the right hand, placing the thumb just at the back of the skull, and giving a smart jerk of the hand, the other, of course, holding the neck of the fowl. And, lastly, there is the knife, which we consider the most merciful plan, as it causes no more pain to the bird than that occasioned by the momentary operation itself. Fowls are easiest plucked at once, while still warm,, and should be afterwards scaldedT by dipping them for just one instant in boiling water. This process will make any decent fow'l look plump and nice, and poor ones, of course, ought not to be killed at all. They should not be “ drawn ” until the day they are wanted, as they will