244 FURNITURE. washed with it require to be exposed for some time to the air to destroy the peculiar odour of the gall, but not in the sun, or where there is a very strong light. As calendered or glazed articles last three times as long as when unglazed, the ex- pense is not really so great as it at first seems. Brass bedsteads are many of them to be greatly admired for their exquisite beauty and lightness of appear- ance. They are some- times lacquered to pre- vent tarnishing. They are somewhat expen- sive, varying in cost from /4 15s. to £10 for one of full size. The difference in price arises not altogether from the more or less artistic beauty or elaboration of design, but from the quantity of iron, instead of the more costly metal, which is used in their construction, and also the greater or smaller diameter of the head and foot pillars. A five feet wide bedstead—all brass — without much ornament, would cost being drawn through two united rings of some fanciful flat device, or as a true-lover’s knot, or any other quaint design, so that it be not a single ring. This support for the drapery is screwed into the ceiling, in the same posi- tion and distance from the wall as the centre. front of a tester would be in a half-tester bed- stead. The hangings or drapery, in two pieces, cut of four breadths wide, are measured, slanting over the bedstead, from the screwed ornament slanting to the ground, and three- quarters of a yard, or more, of extra material to be allowed on each piece beyond the actual measurement. This is now drawn up in a bunch — not on the selvage side—and thrust through one of the rings, where it is secured by tying a tape round the mate- rial and fastening it to the ring, but conceal- ing the tape. The second piece is ar- ranged in the same manner, and then the Fig. I. Fig. 3. Fig. 3- about £\z los.; but with only the foot rail of brass, and the remaining part of iron, the difference less in expense would be One word may be said here about the foot-rail of a bedstead — never to purchase one without it, if com- /ort be studied. For entire brass bedsteads, hangings of silk and lace, with cords and elaborate tassels, or a rich striped chintz, with pink lining, seem to be the only appropriate furniture to contrast well with the bril- liant brass-work. The illustration. Fig. i, shows such a bedstead with hangings complete. A French pattern brass bedstead, with hangings, is elegant when the hangings are disposed artistically by two puffs are pulled out in front as full as possible. Two sides of the curtains fall down at the back, and are then trimmed to form a head - piece. The remaining portion falls over the sides of the bedstead in two curtains, which are looped back in the day time, each by a broad band of ribbon bordered with silk gimp, mounted on stiff buckram, and looped with a concealed cord, the colour of the ribbon, to each pillar of the bedstead. The material for this furniture may be of a broad-striped chintz, lined with pale pink, or of white dimity, or damask dimity bordered with a handsome stripe of chintz—of course bordered only on three sides, but not those which