231 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. CALISTHENICS FOR LADIES.—VI. Having in previous chapters shown what calisthenics really are, how they can be carried out with and without paraphernalia, and in what this paraphernalia consists, we can hardly close the subject without some slight refer- ence to gymnastics for ladies, which occupy an important position in the educational programme of the nineteenth century, since women have urged their right to a fuller participation in educational advantages. Of old, there was no lack of cricket-grounds, gymna- siums, and other resorts, where men were enabled to exercise their muscular activity; but that women should recognise any such want was never realised. Now we are alive to the fact that, by a judicious exercise of the limbs under careful supervision, much strength and power may be gained, and that a graceful carriage and erect bearing may be secured to women by taking part in physical training ; that instead of the frames of young girls becoming weak, and themselves listless, health must be secured by attention to their bodies ; for there is much truth in Sterne’s homely simile, that “ a man’s body and his mind are like a jerkin and a jerkin’s lining; rumple the one you rumple the other.” To meet this want we find that many gymnasiums have sprung into existence in various parts of the country, specially devoted to women, and that other large and well-known establishments have set apart certain days in the week exclusively for female pupils. We do not propose to enter into the course of exercises pursued, as they differ materially from calisthenics, the paraphernalia being dumb-bells from about ilb. in weight, bar-bells, or two-handed dumb-bells, weight-machines, also called “ pulley-hauleys,” parallel bars, swings, and see-saws. In all these the pupils seem to take special delight; and as soon as the classes are over it is curious to see the rush that is made to the several poles, pulley- hauleys, &c.; and while one young girl, running up an elastic board, vaults with the agility of an acrobat, others scramble up upright ladders, or up poles as high as the ceiling, thereby securing, without doubt, much suppleness of limb, and the power of looking down from any height without dizziness. As soon as women experience the benefits of physical education a general desire arises to share in its advantages, among which we may reckon a sense of power of action, an increased cheerfulness, and general vigour; for whatever bodily organs are properly e.xercised become strong, though irregular exercise is worse than none at all. What bodily training will do is best seen by the manner in which a slouching plough-boy is trans- formed into a smart soldier. Health of body and grace of bearing is as necessary to women as to men; indeed, grace is one of the attributes naturally looked for in women. The ancients more thoroughly recognised the importance of cultivating it than we do. When Mercury was the god of the gym- nasium, mind and muscle went hand in hand in the centuries of the Olympiads. The subject of calisthenics is really a wide one, em- bracing as it does so extensive a field in physical educa- tion, which Peter Henry Ling (the famous Swede, whose name plays an important part in all such teaching) cha- racterises as rational gymnastics. He is the originator of one of the best systems of physical culture ; and Dr. Roth, who has devoted a long life to the promotion of physical education among women, has translated his work into our own tongue. Parents and teachers entering on this wide field must remember that careful personal supervision, from the earliest years of children, is as necessary as teaching; and that, though most of the games and much of the natural exercise of little ones are, as it were, the com- mencement of physical education, stiil there is a right way and a wrong one of doing most things ; therefore, children should be taught how to stand, how to sit, and even how to lie down. Many young girls become crooked by the habit of placing the hands behind them while repeating their lessons—a most injurious method, tending to round the shoulders and depress the chest, unless the thumbs are uppermost, the arms straight. Moreover, the spine and scapula are often displaced by holding one elbow behind the back with the opposite hand ; and many deformities arise from a habit of standing on one foot, as also by the wearing of low frocks, which is an encourage- ment to thrust up one or other shoulder. When the bones and muscles are as supple as they are in childhood and youth, they are easily distorted. Grow- ing girls should not be allowed to carry younger ones for any long time on one arm. In sitting they should not be permitted to stoop over their needlework ; when writing, the left arm should be raised some three inches by any convenient support beneath. A very common, but most I injurious mode of reading which children contract, ' especially out of school hours, is with the head bent down j to meet the book, supported in both hands, while the elbows rest on the knee; a similar bad habit is often acquired in learning drawing, by stooping the body [ towards the paper instead of raising the drawing properly in front of the figure ; and in music also the stool should be drawn up well to the instrument, or the body is thrown at right angles in an ungraceful attitude. Attention should be particularly paid to the kind of chairs and seats used by children. Arm-chairs are bad, as they are very apt to make children lean on one arm. But the chairs they use should have backs : it is not only fatiguing but injurious for them to sit upright for any long time without some inclined support; and for older girls, during the period of study, it is certainly most un- advisable that they should be compelled to occupy very hard seats for many consecutive hours. For school desks and chairs combined, the Swedish ones are particularly to be recommended : the chairs have comfortable backs, and the addition of small cushions makes them a very easy seat; the desks have receptacles for books, slates, &c.: and one of their great advantages is that, being each one separate, the pupils do not come into immediate con- tact with each other—often a most disturbing element in study. In lying down, children should have a broad pillow, to come well under the shoulders, and they should be en- couraged to lie straight, with the body extended as much as possible. Seeing that “ life is not alone to live but to live well,” and that so much of our power of living well depends on our good health and our bodily condition, it is desirable, in this most important period of youth, to devote proper attention to the development of the body, w'hich, unfortunately, was for a very long time a point almost neglected in our system of education, although many distinguished teachers have not failed to point out that “ a sound mind in a sound body is happiness.” Bearing in mind the careful supervision we have just described, when children beginning to study are con- sidered old enough to enter upon calisthenic exercises, care must be taken lest the novelty and probable enjoyment lead to the error of their carrying the exercises on for too long a time at once. The duration of the lessons should be apportioned to the strength of the pupils, and gradually lengthened. Half an hour in the day is generally quite enough, and that should be divided. The exercises for the head, legs, and trunk, should be done slowly, those for the arms quickly, and a minvite’s rest should be allow'ed between each set of exercises. They must all be carried out with exceeding exactness ; slovenly movements do more harm than good. What is worth doing at all is worth doing well.