CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 141 simply look into the hidden part of the most common of all, in order that such a calamity as a broken sash-line need not in future make a visit of the carpenter necessary. The frame into which the glazed sashes fit is composed of the perpendiculars, or styles, H I, the lintel J, and sill K, and this frame may almost be considered a part of the framework of the house, as it is fixed firmly in the brickwork, and in many cases has to carry weight. Fig. 55 is an enlarged section of one side of the frame and sash, and clearly shows the exact arrangement of the guides which keep the sashes in place. B is the sash which carries the glass. In the plan a groove, D, is shown in the edge of this sash, the object of which is the receipt of the line which runs up to the top of the style and then disappears over a pulley, p, into the weight-box, w. Now let us suppose the cord supporting B, Fig. 55, is broken, and we will proceed to mend it. On the inside of the frame is a beading, C, which runs all the way round the window. This must be removed on the side where the break is by levering it from its fastening with a screw-driver or chisel, great care being observed to prevent damage to the paint. This done, the sash must be first pushed upwards far enough to bring it over the bottom bead, and it will then come bodily out of its place. The broken rope must then be rertkoved from the groove D. The -sash out of the way, the style A will be exposed, and in the lower part a portion of this board, as shown by the dotted lines, is found to be movable. Take out the piece. A, and the weight, w, can be got at, and the broken line taken from it. Get a small piece of lead. Or anything heavy but small, and tie to the end of a thin piece of twine, and insert this “ mouse,” as it is called, over the pulley at the top, and let it drop down to the hole. A, and fasten to it the new sash line end, which can then be pulled back over the pulley. The weight, W, is threaded by this rope from the top, and a knot tied and pulled well into the place sunk in the weight to receive it, so that there shall be no danger of its getting wedged up in the box. Replace the loose piece. A, and fasten it, and cut off the sash-line to the proper length. The proper length will be arrived at by pulling the weight up to the pulley, P, and bringing down the end of the cord to the top of the sash, allowing three or four inches for the nailing into the groove, D. Of course the weight must not come quite up to the pulley, but just within an inch or so. Secure the cord into the groove firmly, with two or three clouts or round-headed nails. Replace the sash, and nail on the beading, c, and the job is done. Supposing the top sash, which slides down F, to be the one requiring repair, it will be necessary to remove the front, or lower sash, and then, by taking out the beading, E, the back sash can be got out also. Otherwise the process is the same as above described. The weights, w w. Fig. 55, should exactly counterpoise the sashes; and two are required for each. They are usually made of cast iron, as cheaper; but for situations where space is short, lead weights are Fig. 57- Fig- 59- used, the specific gravity of lead being so much greater than iron. Fig. 57 shows the plan of a complete window. In old- fashioned window-frames the entrance to the weight-box is often from the front, as shown by the dotted lines, N, (Fig. 56), but this plan is most objectionable, because the paint-work is so much more pulled about whenever a breakage occurs in the line. Ordinary rope is not suitable for windows, because, being twisted, it is liable to stretch, and to spin the weight round every time the window is opened or shut, in a noisy way ; and it is not strong or durable enough. The cord to be used is known as sash line, and should be plaited of good hemp instead of being twisted. Of course the cost of it is greater, but not more than its advantages would warrant. Shutters are often suspended exactly like sashes ; but the modern windows, which go down to the ground, do not admit of these, there being no space into which they can slide away. Various arrangements of folding and hinged shutters supply their place, but these will not need detailed de- scription, as a careful examination of a few varieties existing in nearly every house will, if conducted with a little common sense, familiarise the inquirer much more than a most elaborate de- scription, which could not possibly meet every case. The fastenings of windows are im- portant if the outsides are accessible to the incursions of burglars, the or- dinary form, as shown in Fig. 56, being liable to the objection that a thin knife inserted up the crack between the sashes will force it open. The best remedy is a screw sent through the two frames ; but there are many other patent arrangements by which security is to be attained. This being the first time we have done such a thing as to mend a sash line, it is lucky if we have not broken one of the panes of glass. For practice we will suppose we have done so, and now we must go and mend it. The channel which receives the glass is invariably on the outside of the sash, i.e., the side exposed to wind and weather. The reason for this is that the pressure of the wind may tend to keep the glass the more firmly in its place, there never being pressure from the inside. With a strong-backed knife, something like Fig. 58, if we have not a regular glazier’s hacking-knife, hack out the old, dry putty which holds the remains of the glass, and clean out right down to the wood, using the point of the knife, and knocking it on its thick back with a hammer. If we have not a diamond, we shall have to take an exact measure of the size, and get the pane cut at a glass shop. The price varies with the size, quality, and thickness of the glass, and would be from 2d. to 6d. per foot. Sixteen ounces to the foot would be the right thickness. Twenty ounces is the thickness for large panes, or for sky- lights. Of course the above prices are for crown or sheet glass ; plate being very much thicker, and ground and polished perfectly true, is very much more expensive. The