59 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. Fig- 5- leaves, to remove If there is sufficient width, a middle space may be allotted to flower-beds in addition. But if, as we have before re- marked, a wall or close fence encloses the plot, make your flower-beds in the centre, and your walks around the sides. The arrangement of side beds may be made either in the usual fashion of a straight and uniform line, or with the outer border forming a waved line. The latter plan is decidedly preferable where the available space is not so limited as to cause a trivial effect. Besides being a depar- ture from the tiresome uniformity which ordinarily meets the eye, it affords somewhat better means of tending the flowers, as the indentation of each curve gives a more convenient approach to the plants. But in these and other matters, it is hardly possible to lay down any very definite rules, and the reader must be guided by the suitability of the plan suggested to the space at his disposal. As to centre beds, beware, in any case, of the mistake to which we have be- fore alluded. Itmay be easy enough to plant a large bed, beginning from the middle and work- ing outward ; but when the plants come to grow, it is impossible to tend them properly without risk of in- jury. When they require trimming or watering, the plants are difficult of access, and you must step upon the bed to accomplish the work. F or watering, in town gardens, should be given occasionally to every individual plant; not to its roots alone, but thoroughly over its from them the dust and other pollutions which choke their pores. And when plants are in flower, it is necessary to remove from them continually all decaying leaves and spent blossoms, so that they may be kept in health, and their period of blooming may Ije prolonged as far as pos- sible. Accordingly, for any central space, let the ground be divided, so that access to all the plants is freely open. If the space will allow the formation of one good-sized bed only, reject the form of either circle or square ; there are others which will be both more pleasing to the sight and more convenient from the gardening point of view. We give two or three diagrams of suitable forms of single beds, Figs, i, 2, and 3, which will suggest others to our ingenious readers. When there is a larger space available, and more than one central bed can be made, the ground may be portioned out in geometrical forms, comprising a circle or an oval, with segments of a circle. Our illustrations, Figs. 4 and 5, suggest figures applicable in this case, always remember- ing to let the forms chosen satisfy the eye, as well as afford ready access to the plants. We have seen, where plans similar to these are adopted, and especially where the garden is formed on what was previously meadow land, the grass left on the spaces around or between the beds. But we must confess we would rather relay turfs at any time than attempt to renovate old and coarse grass, which can never be made to look so well as new; neither do we approve of turf for either edging or lawn in very small gardens. It requires, in summer particularly, incessant clipping and attention to keep it in tolerable order, and the time which should properly be devoted to the plants is thus occupied by their surroundings. What is best for the purpose is a walk of neat gravel. FORMATION OF GARDEN PATHS. In the case of paths, we have heard it stated that perfect drainage is only absolutely essential in a very damp locality, or where there is a rush of water from higher ground near at hand; but we beg to differ in this respect, because we look upon it that “ whatever is worth doing is worth doing well,” and as it is merely the question of a little extra labour, there is no good reason why so important a matter should be slighted. Our planis to shape out the paths ex- actly, and remove the earth in their entire course to the depth of eighteen inches, making, as it were, a clean,square trench; then, hav- ing spread stones or rubbish, such as broken crockery, burnt brick clay, or some similar hard material, so as to fill to the sur- face, we permit it to lie for a time, ram- ming it down every now and again, until it has become perfectly solid. In a week or more, according to the weather and labour bestowed, it will be sunk to a distance of six inches from the top of the trench. Then place upon it a layer of coarse gravel, from three to four inches thick, and let it be well rammed down, and afterwards rolled as flat as possible; and as soon as you have made the surface to your liking, put another two-inch layer of finer gravel over the whole, roll it as before, and you will have a path that will discharge any amount of wet, and never give way or become rotten or untidy, let the weather be what it may. The gravel for the purpose may be obtained in many localities at a very slight expense, and it is not necessary, although it may be desirable, to have more than the usual bottom of well-beaten earth ; but where it is not so easily procured, stones, shingle, rubble, or any similar material, may be beaten into the ground to form a solid path. All garden paths, great or small, should be somewhat higher in the centre than at the sides, to allow water to run off freely, and so prevent their getting into a sloppy and unpleasant condition in wet weather. In the choice of material for the borders of beds, tastes differ widely, some preferring a permanent edging of tiles.