COOKERY. 254 heavily charged with salt, but it has taken from the smoked meat rancid particles which render it unwhole- some. Even with our moderately salted boiled beef and legs of pork, the boilings, otherwise good, are so salt that only a small proportion of them can be used for making pea-soup, &c. Better soups of that class are made by using fresh meat, and salting them to taste. Dried meats not salted, are not open to the same objection. It cannot be denied that a slice of corned beef or of salted, unsmoked boiled leg of pork, makes now and then a very pleasant morsel to eat. But families whose means are not too ample, but who still wish to support their health and strength by a plentiful supply of nutriment, might do well to consider whether they should not make that savoury morsel only an occasional treat, and boil their beef unsalted, as is customary over a great part of the Continent. The boiled beef need not be always an insipid dish, and the nutriment contained in the broth is very considerable. Amongst other offices which our food has to fulfil, is the very important one of warming our bodies. Now the heat taken in—to say nothing of the nourishment—in broths, soups, and warm beverages, is a saving of just so much fuel-food ; apropos of which, we will quote the following from the appendix to Dr. Edward Smith’s “ Practical Dietary ; ”■— “ There is less waste in boiling than in roasting food, and still less in gently stewing than in boiling or roasting it, since the fluid in which it is stewed contains the nourishment which has been drawn out of the food, and is eaten. Do not purchase salted meat. Hot food is both more agreeable and digestible than cold food. Eat hot food generally, and particularly in cold weather, except in the case of bread, where it would be wasteful to do so. Children, and . old and feeble people need hot food more than strong adults. When you are very poor, and have not enough to eat, do not drink cold fluids.” French cooks occasionally put a bit of salt pork into their pot-au-feu, always into their cabbage soup ; but it is quite a small piece, just big enough to render the sea- soning with salt unnecessary. A good deal of the salt given out by the bacon is absorbed during the long process of cooking, by the much larger proportion of fresh meat and vegetables which attract it. When such things as a leg, neck, or shoulder of mutton, a breast or knuckle of veal, or a couple of fowls are served as “ boils,” the boilings may be converted into stock broth for diluting sauces, and forming the groundwork of many soups. Those from calf’s head and ox cheek require peculiar treatment, which will be indicated. Those from turkey have a decided flavour of the bird, which, however, is not distasteful to many. The stock-pot may also receive any lean trimmings of meat, giblets of poultry and game, bones in general (crushed or chopped) if sweet, and any other well-flavoured remnants. Many butchers sell bones for soup making, but it is not an economical plan to buy them. Stock broth should be kept simmering as long as the kitchen fire is in. It is improved by the addition of good vegetables, and slight yet perceptible seasoning. It lends its aid to all kinds of soups, from pea-soup to mock- turtle. Many things cannot be done without it ; it lends an additional charm to many more. And yet broth is held to be only the A B C of cookery. If, instead of using for broth what you happen to have, you set to work to make it with fresh materials, you cannot do better than adopt the pot-aie-fen. The Pot-au-Feu (or the pot on the fire) is the name of a mode of making soup and cooking meat and vegetables, which is practised in France by every family which is raised above absolute poverty. Beef is generally the foundation of the pot-au-feu. Choose a fresh-killed piece, weighing three or four pounds, of the “round,” in default of which, the shoulder is to be taken, or a couple of thick slices of the shin. We often use the loin, cutting out the fillet for steaks or roasting, and making soup with the bone and upper portion boiled entire. N ow, although the pot-au- feu may be made with beef alone, other things may be added, as the size of the vessel admits, as a small joint of lean mutton, a little bit of salt pork, and a fowl—which latter should be old; an old partridge or pigeon, or both, give the finishing touch as far as meat is concerned. A wild rabbit is quite admissible. If you have fresh bones, put them in, too. Put these on in your soup-kettle, allowing not more than one quart of cold water to each pound of meat. While it is coming to a boil, or before, peel and prepare your vegetables, and throw them into cold water; three or four carrots halved lengthwise ; from four to six whole onions ; three or four leeks ; a stick of celery; one bay-leaf; a small bunch of parsley and thyme. You may add two or three turnips sliced ; but note that turnips put into soups or stews cause them to turn sour sooner than they otherwise would. Skim the pot as it comes to a boil (the slower the better); when no more scum rises and it boils, throw in your vegetables, then skim again if necessary. You may put in a few cloves and peppercorns, but a pot-ati-feu should not be highly seasoned. Colour with some sort of browning—caramel or burnt sugar is sometimes used. Burnt onions are better. A bit the size of half a walnut suAces. A nice browning for soup may be made from pea-shells. After shelling peas, choose the cleanest and freshest looking shells, and put them (not heaped) on a coarse earthen dish into a slow oven, and bake them gently till they are crisp and brown. They will then keep for some time in paper bags in a dry place. From four to six pea-shells will brown a pot of soup. Five or six hours of slow but constant boiling are requisite to bring the broth to perfection. Some epicures let it simmer as long as seven or eight. It should then be clear, limpid, of a golden amber colour, exhaling pleasantly the combined aromas of the various meats and vegetables. This is the true French bouillon. At the bottom of the soup-tureen put two or three crusts, or some toasted bread, or a penny roll cut in halves lengthwise and re-baked. Over the top of the tureen hold a fine-holed cullender, and into this ladle the soup till the tureen is full. All floating scraps or shreds will thus be strained off. Before serving, let the tureen stand near the fire until the bread is thoroughly soaked. Some prefer the bouillon the first day, some the second. In the south of France it is often slightly flavoured with garlic, which has the same inconvenient effect as turnips, of making the broth turn sour sooner. If other meats besides beef are used, they are reserved to make their appearance under different disguises. After the soup, the boiled beef is served alone—the bouilli— accompanied by the vegetables cooked with it handed round in a separate dish. As condiments for this simple dish, mustard, gherkins, and other pickles may be used ; during the season, slices of melon; and in the South, ripe fresh figs. It is understood that as soon as the skimming is done, the pot-ati-feti is to be covered down close with the lid ; that it is always kept boiling gently, and never galloped; and that both meat and vegetables are the freshest that can be had. One tainted bone or strong stale turnip would spoil the soup to-day, and make it still worse to-morrow. Ratatouille.—This is a popular French mode of making a savoury mess out of remnants of cold meat, especially of cold bouilli., or beef which has passed through the pot-ati-fcu. It is not essential that the meat should be all of the same kind, or of the same date ; but it must be perfectly sweet. If the cold meat has little or no fat of its own, procure a small quantity of uncooked fat meat, such as the thin ends of the ribs of beef, or a cut out of a loin of veal. Cut all the meat into pieces of a size to be