I13 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. GARDENING.—V. THE WINDOW GA-KTiEii {continuedfrom p.%^). I Ferns are among the most beautiful of the plants adapted to window culture. The graceful forms of the foliage more than compensate for the absence of flowers when they are used alone ; but when they are employed I together with flowering plants, in some such contrivance as the bulb case engraved in our last paper, the effect is vextremely pleasing. They may be placed as a centre, ! with dwarf flowers around, according to their size and habit of growth. But they are also useful for hang- i ing-baskets, the drooping fronds falling naturally over 1 the sides, and making a i handsome base either for ' the flowers or taller ferns which may be grown in the centre. With regard to the bas- kets used for such purposes as this, we may remind our readers that it is not at all ' necessary that they should be of a very ornamental character; so long as they are neat in outline, and adapted to the purpose by I being sufficiently roomy to admit the soil and the free growth of the plants, it is immaterial what amount of ; decoration may be displayed upon the sides. As the i plants grow, these will be covered and hidden from view ; and, therefore, the elaborate and expensive affairs which i are sometimes sold for hanging-baskets, are practically worth no more than the plain and unpretending articles which may be purchased for a quarter of the sum. 1 A good example of the ! hanging-basket has been I included in our previous illustrations. When ferns are employed I alone in the basket, it ahould be fitted with a zinc pan, in which to place the soil, as it will be necessary 1 to keep this constantly moist, and without the pan an unpleasant dripping •would be experienced. Ferns for the purpose of indoor culture may be found in abundance in any wood, and in most of our country (lanes. They may occasion- ally be seen growing in 11 chinks of rocks, upon old walls, &c. A good variety might I thus be obtained with very little search, including the I common maidenhair, the hart’s tongue, spleenwort, lady fern, and many others. - The locality will in many cases decide the examples which may be thus selected for growth, as each district has some kinds more or less peculiar to itself. The plants chosen should be small—the smaller the better—as the more pleasure will be found in watch- ing their gradual development; and when they have grown somewhat too large for the pot or basket, they may be removed to the garden, where they will help to make a pleasing variety among the shrubs and flowering plants. I If ferns be procured from a nurseryman or seedsman, the hardy native kinds should be chiefly chosen for I '.vindow gardening, and they may be seen in numbers and . variety to suit any individual taste. Many of the other I I 8—N,s. species are apt to require too much heat and moisture to render them desirable subjects, especially for growing in baskets. A few good healthy ferns to start with, will enable you to keep up a constant supply, as they may be propagated with ease by division of roots, and by raising from the spores. The spores are the seeds which are found on the under surface of the frond, and they are most easily collected by cutting off the frond entirely when the spore-cases become brown, and laying it by in a warm place, wrapped in a piece of paper. In a few days the cases will have burst, and the spores may be collected and sown. They may be sown in a pot, which should be half or three parts full of material for drainage, and the soil should be light and fine. A little moss placed under- neath the soil will keep it sufficiently moist, and assist the growth. A small piece of window-glass should be put over the pot, and left there until the shoots begin to appear above the surface, when it must be raised occasionally for the ad- mission of air. When the plants have grown large enough to handle, they should be transplanted imme- diately. # Drooping plants, which will flower freely in the basket, may be had in great variety and at very little cost. Among the most popular favourites of this kind are the nasturtium family, tropeolum, canariensis, and other varieties, convolvulus major, honeysuckle, and trailing mesembryanthemum ; but there is scarcely any limit to the number of plants that may be grown in this way. The verbenas, helio- tropes, petunias, nemophi- las, lobelias, mimuluses, &c., may be trained to cover the sides of the hang- ing-basket, and thus each spring or summer an entire change may be made in the character of the plants so grown. We will conclude these papers on the window garden with some hints on the raising and keeping of plants which require some- thing more than the slight degree of attention which is sufficient for many of the kinds described in our last paper. It will be found advantageous to stimulate the growth of certain seeds by artificial means, some of which may be carried into effect simply and inexpensively. Bell glasses are useful, and not expensive. A cracked tumbler will answer the purpose in some cases; and in others, a flower-pot turned upside down. In a cottager’s garden we once saw a very neat contrivance : a tray was filled with sawdust, and placed in an east window; on this the pots with their seedlings were placed, and over them was a frame of glass. The sawdust, by being kept wet, moistened the soil, and at the same time generated a sort of bottom heat, which materially helped the seeds to germinate on cold days. The master and inventor of this little forcing establishment sprinkled the sawdust with warm water.