79 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. HINTS TO LETTER-WRITERS.—I. Most persons have to write letters, and it is desirable that in doing so attention should be paid to a number of details. There is no doubt that a well-written letter is often a great advantage to the sender, while it is always a pleasure to the receiver. The result is promoted by the proper choice of paper and envelopes, pens and ink. All these are so cheap and easily obtainable that there is seldom any excuse for the use of inferior materials, which are at once impediments to good writing, and indica- tions of neglect. The writer should endeavour to execute his penmanship in a free and legible hand, so as to be neither crabbed and inelegant, nor overloaded with flourishes. Some persons of distinction, we know, have been famous for their bad writing ; and it is a fact that they have found it very difficult to read it themselves. We do not think there is a valid excuse for this sort of thing, and we are sure that it can be avoided by proper attention and practice. The opposite evil of fine writing, which covers a sheet of paper with fancy curves and luxuriant flourishes, is almost as much to be deprecated. A somewhat compact hand, with every letter defined, is the best for all purposes. It need not be formal and precise, without character, “ like copper-plate,” in order to be good; but it must be accurate and readable. Some persons think it beneath them to dot an /, to cross a t, and to distinguish between such letters as n and u ; but all who aspire to pleasing those they write to, and getting a good name, will be mindful of such matters. It may happen that the character of a young writer will be partly estimated by his regard to correctness in his letters ; and we all know how much may depend on the estimate formed. Spelling is a decided accomplishment, and of even more importance than graceful penmanship. Therefore let diligent heed be given to this, and let every word be spelt as accurately as in a printed book. When the words are written in a scrawling and irregu- lar hand ; when the lines are at uneven distances, or not straight across the page ; when the characters are ill- formed, the paper blotted, and the spelling bad, the whole letter has an air of decided vulgarity and negligence Persons who really ought to know better, and who have had a good deal of instruction, sometimes fall into the error of using small letters where capitals are necessary. Thus they will write a small i, when speaking of them- selves, instead of using a capital /, and they will even begin proper names of persons and places with small letters if they do not happen to begin a sentence. There is another fault of which some are guilty, and it is to write a whole letter as if it were a single sentence. They run on from beginning to end, joining their words with ifs, ands, buts, and so forth, until their name at the conclusion winds up the whole. Of course such persons never think of their stops ; and, indeed, the use of stops, or punctuation, is very commonly neglected in otherwise well-written letters. The number of persons who carefully mark the stops in their epistles is very small indeed. The reason, or at any rate one reason, is, that it is difficult to teach the rules for the use of stops in actual practice. Such as master the art in any respectable measure, j^commonly owe it to reflection and habit. HINTS ON CARVING.—III. Hare.—A hare is considered a difficult dish to carve, .for unless very young the bones are hard to divide. The coloured plate. Fig. 8, shows the proper appearance of a roasted hare when brought to table. The head should be set to the left of the carver. If the hare is not very young, cut thin slices the length of the back from G to H, Fig. 8. Next remove the shoulders by inserting the knife between the shoulder and the side at the dotted line J, feel the joint, cut down through it with some strength, and treat it as the leg of a fowl is treated, only more vigorously. None of the adjoining meat is cut off with the shoulders or legs of a hare. Having removed the shoulders, insert the knife at the dotted line at K and take off the leg. Treat the other side in the same manner. The head is cut off by inserting the point of the knife at M, which must be fitted into a niche between the vertebras of the neck, and taking a circular stroke from M to N, when the back-bone has been divided through. Cut the lower from the upper jaw through the line O to P, Fig. 8. Then place the point of the knife up- right at Q, and split and cut open the head at the line visible in the centre of the skull from the nose to the ears. Many persons like the brain, ears, and cheeks.. If the hare is young, cut off the shoulders, legs, and head, before touching the back, and then, instead of taking off slices, cut the back across the narrow way in several pieces at the lines marked R R R R, in Fig. 8. This is done by planting the knife upright, feeling for the niche between the bones, and splitting the back. The ribs are cut right through on either side lengthways, and separate pieces served. The back of a hare is considered the best, and the leg the next most choice part. The shoulders are not usually coveted, as they are apt to be dry. Never- theless some like them, and they are wholesome, and prudent carvers will find a use for them. Serve a little seasoning and one of the forcemeat balls with each piece. Rabbit.—A rabbit, roast or boiled, is carved precisely as the young hare is, the back being cut across in small pieces after the shoulders, legs, and head have been removed. The head is cut up last. Every part of the rabbit is good. The back is considered the choice help, especially the centre piece. The shoulder is preferred to the leg. For rabbit pie, cut up the animal in the same way. If roast, serve the forcemeat balls and seasoning with the meat; if boiled, a little onion sauce. The kidney is con- sidered a delicacy. Each one may be cut in half and served separately; and though not much to look at it will suffice for a relish, which is ail that can be looked for. Turkey.—A turkey generally appears on the board at Christmas, if at no other time. It requires more skill to carve a turkey than any other bird, excepting a goose, and on the carver’s operations will depend how far the bird will go in point of economy. The breast is reckoned the best, and the wing the next in preference. Gentle- men are often partial to the drumstick, the slender .part of the leg. Commence by cutting slices from the breast on each side, as shown by the fines at A, in Fig. 9. If seasoned with herbs, the seasoning will be found in doing this; a little seasoning is served with every por- tion of the bird. If truffles or mushrooms have been used in stuffing, open “ the apron,” as it is called, by cutting a slit at c, and taking out the seasoning in slices ; next remove the wings at the dotted fine D, precisely in the same way as from a fowl. Draw out the silver skewer, F, and take off the leg at the joint by inserting the knife between the leg and the side of the body at E, and parting the joint, which it requires some strength to do, without cutting off any meat with it. When separated, the leg ap- pears as shown in Fig. 10. There is a joint at the dotted line A, which must be severed, and the two pieces served separately. B is the drumstick, E the scaled leg of the bird which is part of the drumstick; c is called the cushion. The drumstick is often reserved till the bird is cold, and then grilled for breakfast. The rest must be carved as you would a fowl, dividing the breast, and cutting the back in half. Calf’s Head is a very delicate and by no means an