CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 167 ripe, but the pruning may be postponed till the spring with advantage. 2. This compartment, if filled with winter crops, will need very little care save earthing up such of them as have not yet been attended to. 3. The seakale in this plot will be ready for forcing towards the end of the month, which can be accomplished in two ways, namely, on the ground ; with the aid of inverted flower-pots and long litter, and Jry taking the roots or stools up and bringing them forward in a heated structure of some kind. 4. Every attention should be paid to the earthing up of celery on this plot, and, provided dry weather continues, a good watering with liquid manure will be found to improve its growth. 5. In a general way the peas on this quarter will have been gathered long ere this, and in that case the sooner their haulms are cleared off the better it will be for the broccoli and other green stuff that has occupied the intervening spaces. 6. Provided you did not put in the cabbage plants, as advised, last month, you should do so now, on the spot from which the kidney beans came. 7. The carrots may be taken up and stored. The portion of the plot just cleared should be at once well dug, and, if moderately sheltered, it will do for the first crop of early cauliflowers. 8. If necessary, thin out the late- sown turnips, but in moderation the first time. COOKERY.—X. HOT DISHES EASILY SERVED AT SHORT NOTICE. All Soups; but note that thick soups, as turtle, mock turtle, ox-tail, &c., are best warmed up or kept hot in an earthen jar plunged in a saucepan of boiling water, both to avoid burning and to diminish the amount of evaporation from the soup, and so keep it from becoming too thick. Tapioca, vermicelli, and pastes in general, thrown into clear stock or consovime, take time to cook, and must therefore be prepared, though apparently so simple. All Boiled Fish: Large fish, as cod, turbot, halibut, skate, salmon, John Dory, sturgeon, conger, &c., to be cut in steaks, or slices, as served in portions by the Paris restaurants ; small flat fish to be simply cleaned; small long-shaped fish, as whiting, haddock, jack, &c., to have their tails thrust through their gills, or tied in their mouths. To stuff fish takes longer time ; but balls of ready-cooked stuffing can be heated up with them in the salted water in which they boil. Of course the fish are ready cleaned, prepared, or trussed, to be thrown at a moment’s notice into the boiling water. Simple sauces, as melted butter, caper, ready-opened oyster, essence of anchovy or shrimp, &c., can easily be made while the fish is boiling. Fish not usually divided, like large mackerel, and which take a good half-hour to boil, are best split open at the belly, flattened, and fried. All Fried Fish and Broiled Fish, when a suitable fire —as charcoal, which is speedily lighted, and always clear —is at command. Large fish must be cut into steaks like cod, or squares, like pike. Smaller fish need only be well scaled and cleaned inside, leaving on the fins and head for show. The smallest, as gudgeons, smelts, sprats, and whitebait, only require a good wiping and drying. When the cook is supplied with the proper means—i.e., a deep frying-pan and plenty of good fat, a large fish, as a mackerel, haddock, gurnard, pike, or carp, will fry in much less time than it will boil, and, if nicely done, make a greater show. The fish will be ready wiped, dried, floured, or bread-crumbed, lying on a'dish fit for imme- diate use ; the fat dissolved in the deep pan, covered to keep out blacks, &c., and only requiring to be set on the fire, to bring it up to frying heat. Small Things.—These must be the housekeeper’s main dependence for a hot repast served in a hurry ; and some of them are difficult to class separately from what she is obliged to serve as roasts. Tossed or sauted mutton or beef kidneys, in gravy or wine. Savoury omelettes, of sweet herbs, grated cheese, chopped bacon or ham, con- taining a ragout of veal kidney, sweetbread, salmon, green peas, asparagus tips. Matelotes of fish and meat, com- bined or separate, half fried previously with the onions. Fi'icassees of veal and chicken, ditto. Curries of various things, ditto. Vol-au-vents; ragout made previously. Sweetbreads ; served white or brown. Calf’s head h la tortue, not whole, but in portions. Plain boiled ditto. Black pudding. Boiled.—The list of these is very short. With the excep- tion of sausages, most meat articles of food are both too large and too solid to cook in that way in a short space of time, besides being spoiled by quick boiling. Hens’ eggs, in the shell, if fresh, and done to half a minute, are excellent. Choice and remarkable eggs may be served boiled in the shell. All require boiling as long as hens’ eggs ; some longer. There is the egg of the common duck, the nearly black one of the East Indian duck, the brown one of the cochin china and other breeds of fowls, the small thick-shelled buff one of the guinea-fowl, and the pinky-brown speckled one of the turkey. The pea-fowl’s egg very much resembles that of the ostrich in miniature,being smooth,but indented all over with dimples. It is somewhat bigger than a turkey’s, of a dull, yellowish white, and occasionally freckled with a few small reddish- brown marks. Pheasants’ eggs are delicate ; so are lap- wings’(often sold for plovers’ eggs), rooks’, and waterhens’. The eggs of various gulls and other sea-fowl are full- flavoured, rich, and peculiarly grateful to many palates. A goose’s egg, poached without breaking, makes quite a little dish. Plovers’ eggs are also esteemed a great delicacy. Vegetables.—Ready-mashed potatoes, browned in the oven in small basins or tin moulds. Cold boiled potatoes warmed up maitre d’hotel way. Souffleed potatoes. Sliced or quartered potatoes, done in a hot bath of fat. Green peas, French way, or h la bourgeoise, warmed up. French beans, French way, idem. Dried haricots, either plain, boiled, with parsley and butter, or Breton fashion. Stewed tomatoes. Stewed, broiled, or evened mushrooms. Fried cardoons, celery, and salsify. Stewed artichoke bottoms, cooked beforehand. Spinach, either true or patience dock, the better for a second or third heating-up. Chopped cabbage, ditto, to support pork chops. Purde of sorrel, ditto, for warmed-up fricandeau of veal. Broad beans, with melted butter and summer savory, ditto; old Windsor beans, skinned and stewed, ditto. Asparagus, half-cooked before ; sea-kale, ditto ; both of these served with melted butter poured over them. Roasts.—Pork or mutton kidneys, fried, broiled, or roasted before the fire in a Dutch oven. Veal kidney, sliced and fried. Lamb chops, with cucumber sauce. All sorts of chops and cutlets, whether fried, broiled, plain, or bread-crumbed ; half-cooked, and finished off in a ready- made ragout h la jardiniere. Fried or roasted sausages. Beef steaks from the rump and the under-part of the loin. Broiled fowl, with mushroom sauce. Broiled pigeons. Small birds, as larks, thrushes, wheatears, rails—land and water—lapwings, knots, stints, &c., roasted in a saucepan. Civet of rabbit, hare, or venison, is a substantial meat dish quickly served : the same may also be said of hashes of various roast meats. Calf’s liver and bacon, fried h-la- mode beef, and stewed ox-cheek, may be kept hot for hours, and ready for serving at a moment’s notice. Third Course.—Pancakes, with sugar and orange to squeeze over them ; apple fritters ; bread fritters ; plum pudding, or sweet suet pudding, sliced, toasted, and sauced with brandy ; sweet omelette, filled with various preserves — strawberry, ripe gooseberry, raspberry, currant jelly, black or red; rum omelette; anchovy toast; Welsh rarebit; curry omelette.