3o8 THE DOG. course there are contrivances for obtaining greater ac- curacy and regularity of motion, by I'emoving friction from the pivots, and causing one wheel to relieve another; but the principle is the same, as we will endeavour to show in our next paper. Before quitting the subject, moreover, we shall also briefly pass in review the gradual improvements made in the manufacture of clocks, so as to give a clearer insight into the nature of the principles on which they work, and enable our readers to fully appreciate those characteristic qualities which are essential to the successful following of watchmaking as a trade. THE DOG.—VII. DISEASES OF DOGS {continuedfrom p. , Distetnper {continued).—Affections of the eyes are best let alone, even if deep-seated ulcers. They should, how- ever, be cleansed with a sponge and warm water. If severe diarrhoea sets in, add two ounces of ether and eighty grains of tincture of opium to a pint of gruel, and administer very gently an enema, according to the size of the dog giving every hour from one to four tablespoonfuls of the same as a dose. Should it still continue, add five to twenty drops of liquor potassas to each dose, with a little powdered chalk. During the whole, however, con- tinue the tonics. If the severity of this symptom, how- ever, continues unabated, and especially if flts supervene, there is very little hope of recovery, and none whatever except in the care of a really skilled practitioner. Mere faintmg fits at the close, however, are of little conse- quence, if treated with the ethereal injection and tonic mixture already given. During convalescence let the diet be rather spare and almost entirely vegetable, in two or three meals a day, or even more, till the recovery be advanced. Let exercise be regular and moderate. The skin often peels off; and sometimes mange will break out, but is easily mastered by the treatment which will be described in our next paper. Fits in the dog often cause much alarm, as they are not unfrequently mistaken for rabies or madness, respect- ing the real symptoms of which latter most people are profoundly ignorant. The most marked difference be- tween the two is, that whilst hydrophobia is always preceded by symptoms of disorder, flts commonly occur with little or no previous warning. The animal suddenly stands still and seems stupid, then, with a guttural cry in the' throat, falls over and probably emits involuntarily its faeces or urine, or both, while the limbs become rigid, the eyes seem starting from the head, and the dog foams at the mouth, while it will probably bite any one who attempts to touch it. Nothing could be nearer the popular idea of “ a mad dog,'’ and nothing further from the reality. When the fit is over, the dog, if left alone, will run off with all its m.ight, and may then be hounded to certain death by a terror-stricken rabble. The treatment of fits is simple. While the dog is insensible he must be secured by the neck or collar, and when recovered caressed till quiet again, then got home as quickly as possible in the first vehicle that can be procured, as walking would probably bring on another attack. Put the animal into a quiet, darkish, and if possible, empty room, and make an enema as follows :— Sulph. ether ... ... ... 3 drachms. Laudanum ... ... ... ... 2 drachms. Cold water ... ... ... ... 5 ounces. For a small dog inject two ounces or less of this mixture, but a large one may have the whole. Then leave the animal entirely alone, whatever be the symptoms, for an hour, when the injection is to be repeated, and so on, till the dog gives evidence of final recovery by coiling itself up for sleep. It will do no harm to administer one more in- jection, even then, when the animal should be left. This treatment is simple, safe, and rarely fails. Fits are caused, as a rule, by too high a flesh feeding; and after recovery the diet and stomach generally should be attended to. The dog for some time should only be allowed out for short distances, and be always held in hand by a chain till there seems no chance of a relapse ; but exercise, though moderate, must be regular, in order to insure a good recovery. Rabies or Hydrophobia commences very differently. For some days the dog appears moody and irritable, or even snappish, and seeks solitude and darkness, often drinking eagerly, but not seeming to care much for food. Indeed, his appetite is usually altogether depraved, and straws, stones, and filth of all kinds are devoured. The light seems to give him actual pain. By degrees his restlessness increases, and he starts off, neither walking nor galloping, but in a drooping, miserable trot, his tongue hanging out, but dry. The tnad dog does tiot foam. If no one comes in his way, he will pass on ; if any one does, he will give an impatient snap^—the deadly bite of a mad dog—and then pass on. But it is blind agony, not malice ; he does not mangle, he never tears ; but snap— snap—snap—he does his fearful work, impelled by an inward agony, which is evidently insupportable, if, indeed, he knows what he does, for many people think he is utterly insensible to all but his misery : he will bite the live coals from a grate without appearing to feel the heat. Again, he seeks darkness. The thirst increases upon him, but at length comes that dreadful swelling of the throat which prevents his swallowing ; though still, so far from dreading water, he will bury his miserable head in it, as if to cool his raging fever. And then, at last, the end comes ; he gets furious, flies in blind fury at everything in reach, utters the most hideous and appalling cries, till strength fails, and death ends the misery and danger. No treatment is of the slightest use—let the poor creature be mercifully destroyed when the case is be- yond reasonable doubt. So far from the popular idea being correct, let it be always remembered that the leading and characteristic symptoms of rabies are not foaming at the mouth or dread of water, but, on the contrary, snappishness for some longer or shorter time previous, dislike to light and company, depraved appetite, and intolerable thirst. Very often the animal is perfectly under control all through ; but of course this ought never to be risked, and a doubtful case should always be con- fined in an empty room till its real character be known, when execution should be immediate. Fortunately, rabies is very rare ; there are seldom more than three or four cases in a year, and these are not caused by heat, for they occur oftener in winter than in summer. Hence there is very little to be dreaded from hydrophobia; but, when bitten by a supposed mad dog, the only certain remedy is cauterisatioti, which tiever fails. It may be applied hours, or even days, after the wound ; indeed, many think that any time previous to the development of the secondary symptoms is efficacious; for as these always begin again at the wound, whether healed or not, before the general system seems affected, it is thought that till then the virus remains local and can be destroyed. The cautery^may be either actual, as applied by hot iron (the hotter it is, the less pain, though of course the best is bad) or the galvanic battery, or when the patient’s courage is not equal to either, by cutting a stick of lunar caustic to a pencil point, and thoroughly working it about in the wound till every point \cd.'s,\)ZtVi well treated. Excision is effectual if done immediately, but requires more nerve than most people possess, as it must usually be done by the sufferer himself.