CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 69 THE AQUARIUM.—III. FRESH WATER ANIMALS {continued from p, 64). As temporary residents tadpoles certainly claim a few words of notice. They are easily obtainable in the spring, and their gradual development into frogs affords a lesson in natural history especially interesting to the young. They should be introduced in the proper tadpole stage, when they consist but of an oval body terminating in a pointed tail, which is actively used as a propeller. Then mon carp, Prussian carp, the roach, the tench, and the gudgeon ; the two first named being the most preferable. As it is important to know what to avoid, it should be mentioned that the stickleback, though an amusing little creature when kept with companions of its own kind, is too pugnacious to be admitted into a general collection ; and the same objection holds good with the perch. There is another animal that may be safely placed in a small vessel in company with those we have named, and that is the newt, of which there are two kinds—the small ultimate change into DEVELOP.MENT OF THE FROG. may be observed the gradual budding of the hind-legs, the ! newt and the triton. They are both perfectly harmless, and appearance of the head, and the '' ’ ‘ " ” the frog. On arriving at the final stage of its development it be- comes amphibious, and will climb on the cork island that should float on the surface of the aquarium ; then, of course, it requires its liberty, and should be placed in the way of finding a more conge- nial place of retirement. When the plants have become fairly es- tablished, and the beetles and snails have settled down in their new home, it will be time to con- sider what fish shall be chosen to complete the furnishing of the aquarium. For the sake of appear- ance precedence must be given to the golden carp ; two of these, not exceeding four inches long, will be sufficient for a cir- cular glass. The most interesting of the fish which may be kept in confinement is, how- ever, the minnow; these little creatures will live for a consid- erable time — some- times for years—in a healthy condition, and become so tame that they will take food from the fingers at the surface of the water, and follow the hand that feeds them round the glass. From six to a dozen of these will not be too many for even a small aquarium. Sometimes a disease will attack the min- now, and therefore, before being placed in the aquarium, it should be carefully examined. If a whitish fluffy spot be noticed near the tail, the fish should be kept in quarantine, or it will contaminate ihe rest, and a general mortality will ensue. This disease usually spreads THE LOACH. THE COMMON NEWT. gradually from the tail towards the head, till nearly half the body becomes coated with a woolly fungus, the fish moves with an awkward jerk, and then occasionally floats helplessly on its back, till in a few days it dies. The loach is also to be recommended as an inhabitant of the aquarium. It agrees well with the other fish, soon becomes tame, and invariably thrives ; its movements are somewhat curious, for instead of gliding about like the rest, it lies at the bottom, turns over the pebbles in search of food, and jerks itself round the glass with a spasmodic motion, resting occasionally on the rockwork that lies in its way. It is also useful in a sanitary point of view, for it picks up the stray morsels that may have fallen to the bottom, and thus prevents the water becoming fouled by decaying frag- ments of food that have been unobserved by its more lively neighbours. To the above may be added the com- the latter is especially attractive on account of its bright yellow body, which is striped with black. An aquarium furnished with the creatures we have named will con- tain sufficient variety in form, colour, and habit to render it very attractive and interesting, and will need but little attention to keep it in order. Care should of course be taken that the water does not get too warm or too cold, and that no more food be given than can be consumed. The best food is' a little biscuit powder, kneaded up into pills about the size of pin- heads, and shreds of raw beef cut with a pair of scissors; these should be drop- ped in alternately, when the fish will catch the bits before they sink to the bot- tom. This operation should not be per- formed more fre- quently than once a day. As it is not desir- able to disturb the contents of an aqua- rium oftener than is absolutely necessary, some inexpensive instruments are required. To remove the stones at the bottom a pair of forceps should be obtained—a wooden glove- stretcher, to be purchased at any hosier’s for a shilling, answers the purpose better than anything else ; to remove lighter matters, such as decayed leaves, morsels of food, &c., a glass tube open at both ends is the most effective. By putting one end of the open tube against the debris to be removed, and then placing the finger over the other end, any light substance can be lifted out of the water ; to take it out by any other method is no 6asy task, and often results in breaking it up and fouling the water. When the bottom of the aquarium becomes dirty from an accumula- tion of sediment, a syphon of india-rubber tubing may be used; by letting the tube draw the water from the lower part of the vessel the refuse will pass out without disturbing the weeds, and clean water can be introduced gently to make up for what has been taken out. It should always be borne in mind that an aquarium, properly managed, needs no change of water ; in warm weather, however, it is neces- sary to add a little water to make up for evaporation. The writer has kept both large tanks and small vessels for more than a twelvemonth without changing the water. An aquarium is more interesting and less troublesome than most other decorative objects that involve the support of either vegetable or animal life. THE TRITON,