HINTS ON CARVING. 256 HINTS ON CARVING.—VI. Whiting.—Whiting are correctly brought to table fried in egg and bread-crumbs, with the tail in the mouth, secui'ed by means of a tiny wooden skewer. These are served whole, one to each guest, who must be careful at once to remove the wooden skewer. Pike.—Pike are split open if baked, and as few bones as possible served with each piece. Cod.— Cod deserves a place of honour next to turbot, if we observe precedence amongst the dishes. A cod’s head and shoulders is a noble dish, and a very wholesome one. Fig. 29. First sever the slices that are already partly cut, and marked by five a’s to the five corresponding B’s. At least cut as many of them as you have friends to supply. Then sever them completely by a transverse stroke of the fish-knife from D to c. A little of the light gelatinous substance, called sounds, should be served to each person. This will be found at E, just inside the fish under the back-bone. Care must be observed not to break the flakes in serving the fish. Flat Fish.—A turbot, a large plaice, a brill, and a John dory, are in all cases carved in the same manner. The use of the fish-slice will now be needed. First of all long cuts are made from end to end of the fish, as marked in Fig. 28, A to B. Cut the fish quite down to the bone. Then make a number of slices from C to D, shown by dotted lines. A steel knife must next be used, and sever completely through the bones at every cut made where it is necessary. Resign it again, and resuming the fish-slice, cut quite through the other side down to the napkin on which the fish is laid, and serve the pieces, bones and all. A little of the parsley, which will be ob- served lying on the fish and round the dish, must be laid on each plate. The bones are regarded as dainties. When flat fish are too small to serve in this way they are cut in three across the short way, shown at the dotted lines A to B and c to D, in Fig. 28, which represents a sole. The centre-piece is considered the best. Smaller soles are cut only in half, and very small ones, and flounders, served whole. Pigeons, dr=c. — Pigeons, when roasted, afford a deli- cious and savoury though but a slight dish. Cut each pigeon in half exactly through the middle, as shown by the line from A to B, in Fig. 28. It is easier to cut a pigeon in half when laid flat on its back upon the dish, going boldly quite through the breast with sufficient weight of hand to divide the bones at once. Other birds, when about the size of the pigeon, may be carved in a similar way, by simple division. Small birds, such as snipes, landrails, v'heatears, and larks, are served whole. A great deal, iiowevcr, depends on the size of the birds. Mackerel.—To carve mackerel, divide them down the bone from head to tail, taking the slice of meat entirely off the upper side of the bone. Cut this slice in half before removing it, and serve the pieces separately, the upper being esteemed preferable to the tail end. Then put the bone aside, and cut the other portion in half also. The fish-slice, or a silver knife, must be used. Pilchards, Herrings, Smelts, White- bait, Sprats.—All such small fish as these are served whole; the very small ones several at a time. Eels and conger-eels are divided before they are cooked. If stewed, they are served with a spoon ; and when fried, with a slice. Loin of Pork is served by simply cutting off the chops as a loin of mutton is cut, only there is no top part to remove. If the pork is not well scored before dressing, it can never be properly managed at table. Aitch-bone of Beef is the only joint which now remains to be mentioned : this is simply cut from end to end of the joint in thin slices, serving fat with the lean. A single, though rather thick, slice is cut off first from the centre of the top of the joint, and laid aside in the dish till it becomes cold. The gravy will be found in the succeed- ing slices. Round of Beef, which is generally salted, is cut in thin slices the entire size of the meat; a little of the fat cut thicker, and a trifle on the slant, is placed on each slice of the lean. Carrots are usually ranged round the dish cut in short pieces. One or two of these are also placed in every plate. Ribs of Beef rolled are carved in the same way as the round of beef, with this exception, that there is no fat to cut separately; the fat is streaked with the lean. Neither are carrots served up, as ribs of beef is a roast joint. There is gravy in the dish, which should be served over each slice of meat, and if there is any garnishing of horse-radish, a little may be gathered up between the carving-knife and fork, and, if desired, furnished to the gu^ts. Several of the dishes, for the carving of which we have set forth directions in this and previous papers, will be found represented in the coloured plate opposite page 193. A reference to this will enable our readers to see at once what ought to be the appearance of such dishes whenr brought to table, and also assist them in practically carrying out the instructions and hints embodied in our observations on this subject. The flat fish. Fig. 28, is shown in Fig. 7 of the coloured frontispiece to the work. In our next article upon this subject we hope to complete our remarks upon this very important branch of domestic art, which is in too many instances disregarded, as if it were a matter of no im- portance.