CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 15 See. ; judging that having once learned ro ’landle tools well, our readers will find no difficulty in adapting their knowledge to each particular piece of work. We intend to give, in detail, instructions whereby the householder who is fortunate enough to possess out-door space, may be enabled to erect sheds or fowl-houses and cucumber frames, and, if necessary, small greenhouses, not forgetting that if he gets these, he will most likely want some such thing as a wheelbarrow, and other conveniences, which he may be enabled, by our directions, to construct for himself. In-doors, the details of window-blinds, curtain-poles, shutters, door locks, and springs, will be explained ; and as now-a-days almost every house contains some specimen of patent machine, we shall devote a chapter to the ex- planation of the working of a few of these labour-saving contrivances. Then again, it is necessary, and in many cases indispensable, that every occupant of a house should be familiar with the arrangement of his gas and water apparatus ; for every one knows how many serious gas explo- sions and expensive over- flows of water might have been prevented by a very slight knowledge of these matters. In all our instructions we shall aim at being rather practical than theo- retical, though not for- getting that a thorough knowledge of the theory if not indispensable is certainly a great assist- ance to the attainment of perfection in practice. We give the following list of tools for the benefit of those who do not intend getting a complete set, so that each may pick out what he most requires, either as his convenience may dictate or his pocket admit, only approximate, and will var; cellence sought. The above are almost indispensable, and the following will be found useful. Keyhole-saw in pad Table-vice . Axe . Spokeshave . Mortice-gauge Blowpipe (common bent) Grindstone . 3 6 to 5 o and upwards. As the above prices are taken from the catalogue of 3. noted London tool-maker, we do not fear that any of our readers will have to pay more. It will be seen that for an outlay of between two and three pounds a very com- plete and serviceable set of tools may be obtained ; but do not let any with short purses get the idea that they cannot do with a much smaller quantity than named here, while at the same time d. Hammer Mallet , . . 08 Hand-saw . . . 46 Tenon-saw, with iron back Jack-plane with double iron Smoothing-plane ,, ,, 6 Chisels, various widths, @ 8d. 2 Mortice-chisels (^in. & fin.) @ is. 1 Screw-driver 2 Gouges @ lod. 4 Gimlets (patent twisted are best) ® qd. 6 Brad-awls @ 2d. . , . Pair of Pincers . , ,, ,, Pliers Pair of Compasses (with wing) Square .... Mitre Bevel .... Rule .... Marking-gauge Brace & Bits (accordingto number) 10 o 6 Files and Rasps Oilstone (Turkey) , Ofl-can Glue-pot and Brush Nail-punch . 8d. legree s. d. ) 2 0 I 0 6 0 5 0 • 4 6 • 3 6 • 4 0 . 2 0 . I 0 . I 8 . I 4 . I 0 . 0 9 . 0 9 2 0 . 2 0 . 2 6 . I 6 . I 0 > 30 0 - 4 0 . 1 6 . 0 6 . I 0 . 0 3 we certainly advise those who can afford it to start with some such assort- ment. From time to time, as we enter into the different branches mentioned in cur intro- duction, we shall need to make additions to our stock. THE TOOL-CHEST. In cases where the ex- penditure of two or three pounds is possible we should advise the pur- chase, from some respect- able tool-maker, of a com- plete set in a chest, which will form a nucleus, to ■which additions can be made as they are re- quired. If, however, any of our readers are for- tunate enough to be able to set aside a room as a tvorkshop, the chest will hardly be needed, as it will be found much more convenient to hang the tools in racks or perforated shelves fixed by brackets to the walls over the bench. This saves the trouble of having to replace the tools in their box each time after using, and also facilitates the finding of them when wanted. The engraving (purposely drawn out of perspective so as to show the interior of the box and lid) exhibits a convenient arrangement for a chest, supposing our amateur cannot manage to devote a room exclusively to the purpose. It will be seen that the lid is fitted with narrow contrivances and fastenings, by which the tools are fixed, so that the lid may be closed with- out their falling from their places. The tray rests on slides in the sides of the box, so as to admit of its being pushed backwards and forwards for greater convenience in getting at the articles underneath. Sornetimes two trays are used instead of one. These trays generally contain partitions or divisions at either end, to keep the nails, screws, &c., distinct, the centre space holding the lighter tools, such as brad-awls and gimlets. For the chisels and screw-drivers, a rack made of two slips of wood the whole length of the box, screwed at about three-eighths of an inch apart, fastened inside the from at just such a distance from the bottom as to prevent the hanging tools from touching it, will be found handy. The planes, oilstone, and heavier tools will go best underneath. Any strongly-made box may be easily fitted up for a tool-