CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. SI Fig. 36 shows a hand or pin-vice, much used by watch- makers, &c., for holding small wire. The jaws are closed by a fly nut, and the handle is hollow, to admit of a long rod being slipped through. The round handle is very Fig. 36. convenient for keeping work cylindrical if required, as the file may be moved in a straight path while the vice is rolled backwards and forwards by the left hand, the work being lodged in the partially-opened jaws of another vice. To obviate the difficulty in holding large works, owing to the disadvantage produced by the radial motion of the jaws in these arrangements, vices have been contrived in which the jaws move horizontally. Fig. 37 shows one of these, which, being usually fine specimens of work- manship, are of course rather expensive (about 30s.). Tail-vices may be had from los. upwards, according to weight, about 6d. or yd. per lb. being the average price. Table-vices are about 5s., and pin about 2s. 6d. upwards. Wrenches.—These are used chiefly for turning nuts or bolts by means of their heads, which are shaped so as to admit of being gripped, mostly having four or six sides. The ordinary form is known as a spanner, but, being of certain fixed size', is, of course, limited in effective- ness to only just those nuts or bolts it happens to fit. In order to do away with the necessity of having a large Fig. 38. number to fit every size, wrenches are made with sliding jaws, which open or close by various means. Fig. 38 is a diagram of what is popularly known as a screw hammer. The handle, A, turns in the collar, B, and has a screw cut in a hole bored inside it, into which screw the movable jaw, c, is drawn by the turning of the handle. There are many other forms of screw wrenches, but in all the application is similar, and it is needless to describe each form. Before concluding this chapter on tools, it will be as well to bring before the reader the common forms of nails, &c., he will be sure to want, and just to let him know the names by which to call them. In Fig. 39, A shows that most common form, the “cut” nail. It will be seen that, looked at from the side, this is wedge formed, but from the edge parallel. It follows, there- fore, that the nail, when driven into wood, should be placed with its wedge side in a line with the grain of the wood. If this is not attended to, the wood, if at all thin, is sure to be split, besides which the hold is not so firm, as the fibres, being bulged away, do not maintain so complete a contact with the nail as if driven in right. A practical trial or two will soon show the truth of this argument. These nails are very cheap, about 2|d. per lb., and are known as inch, two-inch, &c., cut nails. At one time the standard for their length was the height of piles of pennies; but since the alteration in the coinage this standard has given way to the more rational one of inch measure. Brads, B, are cut by machinery from sheet A K C iron, which is used without waste in their manufacture, as the diagram c, showing the manner in which they fit one another, will show. These are also wedge-formed in one direction, and should be driven as directed for cut nails. The price of brads varies according to size, being from about 3d. to IS. per 1,000. D is a round, flat-headed nail, called a “ clout,” much used for' such purposes as nailing on sacking of beds, &c., or in any case where a broad holding surface is required. These nails, being almost exclusively wrought by hand, are expensive, about 6d. per TOO and upwards, according to size. The tack, E, is a reduced form of the above, and will perhaps be the most used of all nails in household requirements, for nailing down carpets, blinds, &c. They may be had as japanned or tinned tacks, at 4d. to 6d. per packet, con- taining 1,000. Wall-nails, F, are used only for nailing up trees to walls, and such purposes. They are made of cast iron, and consequently very brittle. Price, 2d. per lb. The sort of long iron tacks known as French pins, deserve to be much more generally used, as their grasp is very firm, although, owing to their cylindrical shape, there is but little danger of splitting the wood in using them. They are made of iron wire, flattened at one end into a head, sharpened at the other into a point. The price ranges from 6d. to is. and over per lb. Gimp-pins, H, will be found useful for tacking on bordering, fringe, &c., to curtains, ottomans, &c. They are only short, very stout forms of pins made of brass wire, and lacquered of different colours to suit the different furniture; price about 2d. per oz. Nails with iron or steel points and brass heads or hooks of various shapes, will most likely be in much request; they may be had with screws instead of points, if required. DOMESTIC SURGERY.—III. WOUNDS, BRUISES, AND SPRAINS. Poisoned Woti7tds.—The form of poisoned wound most familiar in domestic surgery is in the finger of a cook who has pricked herself whilst trussing game or cleaning fish. The slight prick, which is not noticed at the moment, becomes painful in the course of a few hours, when the finger becomes hot and swollen, and a red blush is seen to be extending up the finger to the hand. This state of things, if taken in time, may be effectually checked by the application of a wetted stick of lunar caustic over ail the inflamed surface, and for some little distance beyond it. The caustic, of course, causes a