2R6 DOMESTIC SURGERY. are needed for the len,s^th of the bedstead ; and will form a warm and pretty quilt—the pattern being a succession of ridges—and the expense is almost nominal in a family where poultry is kept. Care only is required in the matter of cleaning and drying the feathers. When a duck, fowl, or goose is plucked, the feathers should be put into plenty of warm water, and a little soda be well stirred about; then taken out and thrown into cold water ; then lifted and put to drain on a cloth over a large pan, or in any other convenient mode, such as a large net, which may be made for the purpose. When drained, spread the feathers between cloths to absorb the moisture ; and, finally, tie them up loosely in two or three bags made ot muslin, a coarse kind such as is sold for fourpence the yard. Then put the bags in a warm oven, leaving the oven door open. Do this for a succession of nights, till the feathers are quite dry ; they may then be put away in paper bags. If this be done at each poultry-picking, the affair is one of little trouble, the stripping being done at any leisure time. Feather Beds.—A bed, bolster, and two pillows com- plete, for a full-sized bedstead, may be had at from three to twelve guineas, the difference in price being regulated by the quality of the feathers, the make, quality, and description of bed-tick, and the weight of the bed. The unbordered beds of merely two surfaces of tick sewn to- gether within the band round, which is termed the border, seem to be fitting beds for the nursery, but they are not so. Moreover, they are not comfortable. If poultry feathers, clean and sweet, as above said, cost is. a pound, an unbordered bed, containing thirty-four 'pounds of feathers, a bolster with six pounds, and two pillows each containing one and a half pounds, in a cotton tick, will cost £2) ready-made ; and this mode of purchasing is the cheapest. The cost of the feathers being £2 7s., the price of the tick, and workmanship for it and the bolster and pillows will be only i6s. This is for the cheapest kind of full-sized unbordered bed. The next description of feather is English grey goose, at is. 4d. per pound; superior realises as much as is. lod. and 2s. 6d. per pound ; and, lastly, the very best white goose, at 3s. per pound. In purchasing a new bed it will be necessary to see the feathers ; and if they have a tolerable quantity of fluff or down at the ends of them, the stems small, and the feathers well curled, they are good. White goose feathers are the highest priced ; they are of good colour, and are not likely to be mistaken for fowls’ feathers, which have much less down upon them. For a bedstead five feet six inches wide, and a proportionate length, not less than forty-seven pounds of feathers should be appor- tioned to the bed, seven pounds to the bolster, and two and a half pounds for each of two pillows; thus fifty-nine pounds of feathers will make the bed complete. In giving an order for a bed, state the weight, size, and quality required, also whether to be of cotton or linen tick, and mention the price desirable to give for the feathers per pound. A cotton tick, instead of one of linen, would considerably lessen the price, but in cither case a waxed tick should be stipulated for, seeing that in many instances nothing is done to prevent the feathers coming through excepting to cover it on the inside with a coat of white- wash, or other inferior matter, which, after a little time, comes through the tick in clouds of dust, and which cannot be remedied but by emptying the tick, washing, and waxing it. The quality of the feathers of a bod ready made can be pretty well judged by pressing them down ; if they rise up quickly., the feathers are new and downy; if, on the contrary, the rise is but slow or not at all, then they are old, and however well they have been cleaned, have from age lost the greater portion of their down, and arc worth- less. Purchasing beds at public auctions and private sales entails some risk of purchasing with them the seeds of disease. These sales are often consequent upon a be- reavement, which causes a home to be broken up, and if the fatal stroke were fever, those who afterwards lie on the bed of a fever-stricken patient are likely to get the disease. As the cost of purifying feathers is not more than 3gd. per pound, it is scarcely worth while running any risk of this kind. DOMESTIC SURGERY.—X. VARIOUS LOCAL AILMENTS. Rupture or Hernia means the protrusion of a small portion of the bowels through an opening in the groin or at the navel. It occurs in children from violent efforts in crying, and in older persons from lifting heavy weights, coughing, &c. If a mother notices any swelling in the neighbourhood of the groin in her child (boys being much more liable than girls to this affection), she should lose no time in consulting a medical man, and ascertaining whether this is due to a rupture or to some other disease. In order to effect a cure of a rupture, it will be necessary for the child to wear a properly-fitted truss for some months, and it will be well worth a mother’s while to pay every attention to this matter, so as to bring about a cure as soon as possible. It is not necessary that a truss should be worn at night, except in the case of an infant who cries as much at night as in the day, but the mother should see that the child never runs about before the truss is put on in the morning, and must be particularly careful to see that the rupture is pushed back thoroughly before the truss is applied, which is most readily accomplished when the child is lying down. It is convenient in children to cover the truss with a linen cover, which can be changed when soiled, and the greatest care must be taken to prevent the instrument chafing the skin by powdering it thoroughly. In grown-up persons the occurrence of a hernia is of even more importance than in children, since it is more likely in them to become “strangulated,” i.e., it cannot be pushed back by the patient himself, obstruction of the bowels results, and this is followed by vomiting, and even by death, unless promptly relieved by the surgeon. In any case, therefore, where a rupture cannot be returned, or when after any exertion a lump has appeared in the groin, the advice of a surgeon should be sought. It ' unfortunately happens every now and then that a patient suffering from the bilious vomiting caused by a strangulated hernia conceals the real cause of the disease, either from ignorance of the connection between the two affections, or from a feeling of false delicacy. No one is justified in trifling with his or her own life in such a matter, and a medical man will rightly insist upon making the necessary examination if his suspicions are aroused by the symptoms, as they probably will be. When a surgeon finds that he is unable to return a rupture, it will be necessary for him to perform a slight operation in order to save the patient’s life, and neither patient nor friends should have any scruple in consenting to this being done at once. Every minute is of importance in these cases, and though it is perfectly true that patients die after the operation for strangulated hernia, it is equally certain that they die in consequence of the operation having been delayed too long, rather than from the proceeding itself. Started Navel.—This is a not/(mcommon affection in young children, and if not properly attended to will lead to the formation of a rupture. The treatment consists in preventing the protrusion from taking place until the parts are in process of time restored to' their natural condition, and this can only be effected by care and attention on the part of the nurse and mother. The child being laid on its back, and the protrusion carefully returned with the finger, a pad made of a slice of a wine-cork half-an-inch thick, or a farthing, should be wrapped in a piece of soft