2o8 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. Heading: “My Lord.” Personal Address: “YourLord- ship.” ^Conclusion : “ I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship’s most humble and obedient servant.” The wife of a duke’s younger son is styled “ The Lady William ,” and addressed as “ Madam” at the head of a letter, but as “Your Ladyship” in the body of a letter. The conclusion, in this case, corresponds with that of a letter to her husband ; of course writing “ My Lady,” and “Your Ladyship’s,” for “My Lord” and “ Your Lordship’s.” The daughter of a duke is also addressed by her Christian name, “The Lady Augusta;” or,more formally, “The Right Honourable Lady Augusta.” She is styled “Madam,” in the heading, and “Your Ladyship” in the body of a letter. The conclusion must be, “ I have the honour to be. Madam, your Ladyship’s most humble and most obedient servant.” Bishop. Address: “The Right Reverend Father in God, John, by Divine permission. Lord Bishop of .” This is for formal documents ; letters have, “To the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of .” Heading: “ My Lord.” Personal Address: “Your Lordship.” Conclusion: “I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship’s most humble and obedient servant.” The wife of a bishop is addressed as an untitled lady. Marquess. Address: “ To the most Honourable the Marquess of .” Heading: “My Lord Marquess.” Personal Address: “Your Lordship.” Conclusioji: “I have the honour to be, my Lord Marquess, your Lord- ship’s most obedient,” &c. Marchioness. Address: “To the most Honourable the Marchioness of .” Heading: “Madam;” or, from persons m ordinary stations, “My Lady;” so also in the body of a letter. Conclusion: “ I have the honour to be. Madam, your Ladyship’s most obedient,” &c. The younger sons and the daughters of a Marquess, are addressed as those of a duke. Earl. Address: “To the Right Honourable the Earl of .” Heading: “ My Lord.” Personal Address: “ Your Lordship.” Conclusion: “I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship’s most obedient and very humble seiA'ant.” Viscount. “To the Right Honourable Lord Viscount .” In other respects as an earl. B.\R0N. “To the Right Honourable Lord .” In other respects as an earl. A countess is addressed as earl, a viscountess as a viscount, and a baroness as a baron, only changing the titles into their feminine equivalents. The son of a baron, a viscount, or an earl, is addressed as “ The Honourable,” and spoken to as “ Sir.” The daughter of a baron, or a viscount, is likewise addressed as “The Honourable,” and spoken to as “Madam.” In concluding letters to these, therefore, “ Sir,” or, “ Madam,” is a sufficient title. “ I am. Sir (or Madam), your very obedient,” &c. An carl’s daughter is addressed as a duke’s daughter. Baronet. Address: “To Sir , Bart.” and throughout the letter, “ Sir.” Conclusion: “ I have the honour to be. Sir, your most humble and obedient servant.” Knight. Address: “ To Sir , Knt.” Heading, and throughout, as in writing to a baronet. The letters “ Knt.” may be omitted after the name in the address, and if the person is a Knight of the Garter, Thistle, &c., the proper initials are appended to his name : “ K.G.,” “ K.T.,” “ G.C.B.,” &c., as the case may be. The wife of a baronet, or of a knight, is styled “ Lady,” and letters arc addressed “ To Lady Johnson,” or what- ever her husband’s name is. She is addressed as “ .Madam ” in all parts of a letter. Maids of Honour. Address: “To the Honourable Miss .” Heading: “Madam.” Privy Councillors. Address: “ To the Right Honourable .” The style of the Heading is to be varied according to the rank of the individual. The title of Right Honourable is possessed by all Privy Councillors, the Lord Mayors of London, York, and Dublin, and the Lord Provost of Edinburgh. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—XII. curtains. Akin, and properly belonging to, the chapter on blinds, would be the very little machinery which can appear in connection with curtains. The ordinary window curtain is suspended by hooks to rings, which slide backwards and forwards on a pole or rod fixed at the top of the window. This pole is of either wood or metal, generally brass; and if of the former material, its diameter should be slightly smaller in proportion to the internal diameter of the rings, than if of metal, because the friction is greater, and a more oblique position is necessary to get the rings to slide easily. In this arrangement, or rather want of arrangement, the curtain has to be dragged across the window from the ground, and the rings on the pole follow in a jerky and unsatisfactory manner, often failing to meet exactly at the top ; indeed, the action beginning at the wrong end must necessarily be inconvenient. We will only, however, just explain the proper stringing of what are known as French rods, and leave the mere description to speak for itself. These rods are much thinner than an ordi- nary curtain pole, about three-quarters or one inch being the outside size, and they are concealed from view by a cornice and fringe which hangs down over the curtain. They are usually of metal, but may be of wood with brass ends for short len^hs and light curtains. Fig. 69 shows the arrangement for a pair of curtains to one window, a is a rod terminating at one end with a single sheave or pulley B, and the other by the pulleys C and D, the ends of the pulley-boxes being pro- longed into eyes, E and F, by which the rod is supported to the cornice-board. The rings must be of brass, and just large enough to slip over B, and are strung on and fastened to the curtains in the ordinary way. We show five rings to each curtain, and in the position in the figure, each curtain would be about three-quarters drawn. A length of blind-cord is passed over D and over B, returning through all the rings to C and down the tassel I. The first or inner ring H, if the right curtain, is fastened to the upper cord at H, and the first of the left curtain to the lower cord at G. Now it is obvious that as G and H are the opposite sides of a practically endless cord, any motion of either will pull the other the reverse way, so that by pulling the tassel I, we shall open both curtains simultaneously; or, vice versa, should J be pulled. In the cut, we leave out the curtain altogether, to prevent confusion. In some cases it is preferred to use two rods side by side, in order that the curtains may overlap slightly, and so shut closer ; but the principle of stringing is precisely the same as in the case we describe. If pre- ferred, the line may be carried round a pulley, instead of terminating in the tassels i j ; but this difference is quite immaterial. It must be borne in mind in all cases, that the simpler our arrangement of cords can possibly be made, the less the liability to get out of order.