142 cThe Gourmet's Guide to Europe cooks and maitres (Thotel from the Cafe de Paris at Monte Carlo, and, I should also add, his prices. A stock of that old brandy which all connoisseurs know has also been laid down. The restaurant, with a stained-glass roof, has windows which look across the walk on the sea wall to the sea, and it is a remarkably pleasant place in which to lunch or dine or take tea ; but the prices are Monte Carlo prices. Let me give a personal ex- perience. I went there by myself to lunch. The carte du jour presented to the clients has no prices on it, which much exercised the mind of a veritable John Bull who was sitting at the next table to me and who asked, “ How much is that ? ” concerning the dishes, to which question he received soothing but quite non- committal replies. I ordered afriture of langues d'avocat, the little flat-fish that somewhat resemble pointed tongues ; and as the shooting season had just com- menced, the maitre d’hotel recommended two quails and ap i lap of rice, which seemed to me to be an admirable suggestion. I ordered half a bottle of Chateau Car- bonieux and half a bottle of one of the mineral waters. After my quails—little birds with brown firm flesh, differing much in this from the fattened-up, im- ported quail of the South which we eat in London—I thought I would like a pear ; and the waiter brought me, packed in cotton wool, a monster pear and two apples with little landscapes traced with a graver upon their rosy cheeks. I know those pears and apples of old. If one happens to be giving dinner to a lady in whose company one does not wish to appear mean, and the waiter brings a box of those marvellous pears and apples to her, one makes a swift mental calculation of all the money one has in one’s pockets at the same time that one wishes that the waiter might suddenly be struck with apoplexy. In the present case, being alone, I grinned at the waiter and told him to bring me something cheap. He returned with some peaches.