(5 at death, wandered about on the shores of the Styx, so long as the body remained unburicd. Again, the absence of accurate anatomical knowledge in his writings favours the conclusion that dissection of the human body was rarely practised in Hippocratic times. Allusion has already been made to the ignorance of Myology which then existed. Not only so, but under the one name rSvos or n%v, Hippocrates included nerves, tendons, and ligaments. Aristotle, who has been deno- minated not unjustly the Father of Comparative Anatomy, at least of Zoology, the successor of Hippocrates, born 384 B.C., was scarcely better informed. He describes the vt^a as arising from the heart. " They connect the bones," he says, " and surround the joints." But this would imply even greater ignorance on the part of the illustrious Stagyrite than was really the case. Hippocrates con- founded nerves and tendons, or rather was unaware of the existence of the former; Aristotle in a measure distinguished them. The "Ufa, the origin of which, he says, is from the heart, were evidently not nerves but muscles, and the former are styled by him iro'go/, ducts, tubes, or canals. Thus the first, second, and seventh cranial nerves are distinguished by Aristotle; but, in the same way, he also deno- minated other ducts or canals—the ureter and intestine for example —these are irogoi, and are only distinguished from the nerves by the latter being styled irogoi rou JyxepaXou, canals of the brain. Thus, the view of Philippson and Lewes is probably correct that vogoi never meant organs tantamount to nerves, but simply brain-canals, not discriminated from other canals or ducts except by their position. George Henry Lewes says that he has " sought in vain throughout the pages of Aristotle for any intimation that these brain-ducts were special structures." There is probably no good reason for con- cluding, as has often been done however, that Aristotle discovered the nerves,—if by that expression is to be understood his acquaint- ance with the nervous system as an important part of the animal economy,—or that the cro^o/ were intimately connected with sensation, which lias been asserted, or with the mechanism of motion. Much that Hippocrates says of the heart is true, and by no means incorrect. He recognised the fleshy nature of its substance and its pyramidal shape, also that it is covered by a membrane which incloses a fluid resembling urine (liquor pericardii). He describes the heart as possessing two ventricles, separated by a small partition. These two ventricles compose the whole heart; the cavity of the one is larger than that of the other; they are both marked by in- equalities on their internal surface. Of the heart Hippocrates writes,