7 as the foundation of human nature, of the streams which irrigate the entire body and give it life; when these cease man perishes. As to Aristotle, among many instances which might be adduced of his'profound ignorance, there is none more remarkable than the assertion that the brain is destitute of blood, and that the 'back of the skull is empty. It is the latter statement which led Portal to conclude that Aristotle had never opened the cranium :—" ce qui prouve qu'il n'avoit jamais ouvert de crane." 1 Lewes, in his recently published and most interesting volume on Aristotle, already referred to, contends that this great man and diligent cultivator of the stores of Natural History, wanted the powerful fascination which alone can suppress the shuddering repulsion that keeps men from the dissecting-room. Have you, gentlemen, felt this shuddering repulsion? Do any of you still feel it ? I cannot help thinking that the potency of its influence is greatly exaggerated by the able writer I have just named. But whether this be the case or not, you cannot fail to be interested by the graphic picture he has drawn of studies, in which all of us have been, and some of you are still engaged. I shall therefore offer no apology for quoting the passage at length:—" The fascination must be strong, for the disgust is powerful. Our senses are affected by the sickening scent of a corrupting body, by the painful sight of blood- stained instruments, and the scattered shreds of a dismembered corpse. There is also a deeper moral disgust, peculiarly affecting to imaginative minds. The spectacle of death is always accom- panied by a certain awe. At the bedside, or in the battle-field, no gazer remains unmoved; pity, and a sense of community in death, steal over every mind when unshaken by violent emotions. How much more painful the dissecting-room, where the corpse is un- tended by affection and unpitied by strangers! None of the sanc- tity of death surrounds it; none of the tenderness of love watches over it; none of the ceremonials of respect defend it. There it lies, naked, and alien alike from affection and respect, flung upon a table in oblivious disregard of its having once been the temple of a human life. It is no longer that temple; it is not even a corpse ; it has become a subject. Yet all these sources of repulsion have been, and daily are overcome. Men sit patiently for many hours, inhaling the nauseous odours, exploring with their scalpel the winding intricacies of vein and nerve—steadfast, patient, victorious. They have suppressed the suggestions of the scene by firmly fixing their minds on the object of their task. It is not because their ' 1 Portal; Histoire de l'Anatomie, et de la Cliirurgie, torn, i., p. 42.