19 Charles V., and was fortunate enough to cure the young prince Don Carlos of a serious wound of the head, occasioned by a fall. While thus engaged, his zeal for anatomical pursuits underwent no diminution—he was busily engaged in dissection. His good for- tune, however, after a time deserted him, for it has been placed on record that, having attended a young Spanish gentleman who was supposed to have died of smallpox, he craved permission to exa- mine the body, and, opening the chest, found the heart still beating. This sad catastrophe became noised abroad: Vesalius was arraigned before the Inquisition as a murderer, and only escaped a capital sentence through the personal intervention of the Emperor. Leaving Spain he journeyed in the Holy Land, and, having been summoned by the Venetian Senate again to take the chair of Ana- tomy, rendered vacant by the too early death of the illustrious Fallopius, was proceeding to Padua when the vessel in which he journeyed suffered shipwreck on the isle of Zante, and thus, on the 25th October 1564, Vesalius perished, being at the time exactly fifty years of age. The additions to anatomical knowledge made by Vesalius were most valuable as well as numerous. He was the first to publish a complete account of the anatomy of the human body, and this he did while still in his twenty-fifth year. He thoroughly exposed and blew to the winds of heaven the errors and sophisms of Galen, while he demonstrated the utility and absolute necessity of a careful dissection of the human body. To Vesalius, further, belongs the high merit of having conjoined anatomical drawing with textual description. The plates in his atlas are beautiful; and yet it is no wonder, seeing that he employed for the purpose of illustration, the pencil of Titien, and that of his chief scholar, Jean de Calcar.1 To enter into an account of the anatomical descriptions of Vesalius were to write a treatise on the subject. " Nihil erat quod non tetigit: nihil quod tetigit non ornavit." He it was who first accurately described the bones of the feet and hands. Various muscles he first named, and of few was he alto- gether ignorant. His visceral anatomy is excellent; the heart, with its openings and valvular structures; that of the brain—although only rendered complete by Sylvius (De la Boe), and Winslow, our own countryman, and others, a century and more after his day—is wonderfully accurate. Even his account of the bloodvessels and 1 Geschichte und Bibliographie der Anatomischen Abbildung, von Dr Ludwig Choulant.