L6 lime of HerophilttS and Erasistratus dissections had been little prac- tised, while the period during which Carpi nourished was as super- stitious, if not indeed more so. The Inquisition being disquieted by the somewhat free manner in which Carpi had been discoursing about the organs of generation—and it must be admitted that the professor had given some little cause for this disquietude—attacked him, and, to escape its punishment, lie voluntarily banished himself to Ferrara." In exile lie died. Carpi was without doubt a highly gifted and cultivated man; he enjoyed the best possible professional education, being himself the son of a distinguished surgeon, who was his earliest instructor. He was equally eminent as a surgeon and anatomist. To him has been, with some degree of probability, ascribed the original employment of mercurial inunction in the treatment of syphilis. Whatever merit may, however, be attached to this distinction has likewise been claimed for Pietro Pintor Spagnuolo, the physician to Pope Alexander VI., to whom, curiously enough, he dedicated his curious and now very scarce work " De Morbo Gallico," in which men- tion is made of the " unzion mercuriale." For Anatomy, Carpi did enough to entitle him to the favourable regard of all who are inter- ested in its history and progress. He published a compendium of anatomy, entitled " Carpus Berengarius, Anatomia Carpi, Isagogae breves in Anatomiam humani corporis" (4to, Venice, 1535). Carpi divides the human body into four parts—three bellies and the extremities; the first belly is the head, the second, the chest, and the third, the abdomen. In proceeding to the dissection of the body, he recommends the abdomen to be first examined, as the contained parts are most liable to putrefaction. In his descriptions we meet with many Greek and not a few Arabic terms. " Examine," he says, " first of all the umbilicus, for that is, as it were, the rpot of man." An excellent description of the mesentery is given ; indeed the earliest accurate account of this membrane is that by Carpi. The thorax of man, says Carpi, is larger than that of woman, but on the other hand, the female pelvis is more capacious than the male. It would weary you to dwell at any length on mere descriptive details; suffice it to say, that in respect to the vascular system, Carpi was tolerably well informed, that his osteological observations are briefer and less accurate than those of some preceding writers, and that his account of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves is far from satisfactory. In the same cen- tury (the sixteenth), and at no great distance of time from Carpi, 1 Portal, vol.' i., page 172.