13 who attained great eminence in the cultivation of medical science— such, for example, as Paulos of iEgina—commonly known as Paulus iEgineta; Theophilus and Etienne of Athens; John of Alexandria, and Palladius. Important, however, as were the addi- tions made by these and others -to the sum of knowledge in the whole Art of Healing, in Medicine, Surgery, and especially the Obstetric art, little advancement took place in Anatomy. To the Greek and Roman School of Medicine the Arabian suc- ceeded. In the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth centuries, there flour- ished in Arabia and in Spain many most distinguished men—such as Rhazes, Albucasis, Averrhoes, and Avicenna. But neither to them are we indebted for any important advances in Anatomy. We do, however, owe a debt of gratitude to the Arabian physi- cians, indirectly although that may be, in connexion with Anatomy. They, by their translations, preserved the works of the ancient Greek writers; and, it is more than probable, that without them we should not now possess the works of Hippocrates, Galen, and Aristotle, not to mention the strictly speaking classical writers of antiquity. Having offered you this very brief sketch of the progress of Anatomy antecedent to the fourteenth century, we are now prepared to notice the rapid advancement it underwent, along with the other arts and sciences, after the period of the Revival of Learning. The first name of any importance which meets us at this stage of our inquiry is that of Mundinus or Mondini. Portal asserts that he was born.at Milan, and there taught Anatomy about the year 1315. Tiraboschi, however, says of Mondini, that there exists as much uncertainty about the place of his birth as about that of Homer; that no fewer than five cities claim the honour of being his birthplace. These cities are Milan, Florence, Bologna, Pisa, and Venice. However this may be, there is no doubt that Mun- dinus achieved, as an anatomist, a brilliant reputation; so freeing the science from the barbarism and neglect into which it had for many ages fallen, as to entitle himself to the appellation of " Restorer of Anatomy in Italy." Massa applies to Mundinus the title " Anatomista illustris, vir in Sectione celeberrimus." We have seen reason to conclude that dissections of the human body were made at a period long antecedent to that which we have now reached—that Hippocrates probably dissected the human body; that Herophilus and Erasistratus certainly did so; and that while the knowledge of Anatomy which Galen possessed was chiefly derived from his inspection of the lower animals, dogs, pigs, and