10 times, to which I am soon to call your attention. As regards th<; acquaintance which Ilerophilus had with Anatomy, it is quite clear that he was familiar with the brain—he had distinctly noticed the origin of nerves from the brain, ir6goi—using, you will observe, the same word as that employed by Aristotle. Moreover, he had recognised them—and he was the first to do this—as organs of sensation. The ligamentum teres of the hip-joint (round or polished) he described, styling it nZgov. Motor power he placed in veins, arteries, and muscles. His description of the intestines, and par- ticularly of the duodenum, is very good. He also demonstrated the differences which exist between the liver of man and that of the lower animals, describing with more than usual minuteness the liver of the hare. Finally, let me remind you that, in connexion with the venous arrangement within the head, you have all com- mitted the name of this great anatomist to your memories. The junction of the cranial sinuses opposite the spine of the occipital bone was first carefully observed, and afterwards styled by him Xrjvos (a tub or trough), also eu'kriv (a gutter or canal), less accurately rendered into Latin, torcular (a press for making oil or wine); it is now universally known and described as the " Torcular Herophili." I cannot now dwell on the labours of Erasistratus, the distinguished contemporary and fellow teacher of Herophilus in the Alexandrian school, and there is the less reason for regretting this, because, although equally devoted to Anatomy with the latter, Erasistratus achieved a greater fame, from his diligent cultivation of the more practical parts of their common profession. We pass, then, to the prosecution of Anatomy as a study in Rome. You are probably aware that the first native Roman who acquired any high distinction in Medicine, or in the branches of learning connected with Medicine, was Celsus. Antecedent to him, all the distinguished practitioners in the then capital of the world were either Greeks or Asiatics. Aulus, or Aurelius Cornelius Celsus, to whom, with justice, has been applied the titles of " Hippocrates Latinorum," et " Medicorum Cicero," was an inhabitant of Rome in the reigns of Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, and Nero; he was probably alive, although if so, still only a youth, during the latter years of our Saviour's life on earth. It is doubtful if Celsus ever practised the healing art, or was a regular member of the medical profession. It is more than probable that he merely devoted him- self to the study of Medicine, as he is known to have done, in regard to both agriculture and the veterinary art. This is not the occasion for discussing the interesting question now referred to, and