4 we have hastily glanced at the antecedent condition of his science in Greece, and then among the Romans and Arabians. You are aware that the earliest medical writings of any importance which have reached our time belong to the school of Cos, of which school Hippocrates, justly styled the u Father of Medicine," was the chief ornament. Hippocrates flourished in the fourth century before the birth of Christ, the precise date of his birth being 460 B.C. With the nature and contents of the numerous works which have passed under his name, we are not at present concerned. That a few of these are genuine, written by Hippocrates himself, admits of no doubt, while a much larger number of the so-called Hippocratic treatises were in all probability the production of certain of his immediate descen- dants in the Coan school, among whom his son-in-law, Poly bus, was unquestionably one. The question as to whether Hippocrates made acquaintance with Anatomy by dissecting the human body, is one of very great interest, and one also which has at various times excited no small amount of controversy. There is indeed a good deal to be said on both sides. A recent writer, in his instruc- tive work on Aristotle, has certainly committed an error in saying that "it is now generally accepted as beyond dispute that his (Aristotle's) predecessor Hippocrates never dissected the human body."1 Very different is the opinion of the distinguished French surgeon Beclard, not long deceased, and of the late highly accom- plished translator of the Hippocratic works into our own language, Dr Adams of Banchory. They, as well as many others, held that abundant proof is afforded in several of the genuine treatises of the illustrious Greek physician, that the dissection of the human body was practised in his time—that Hippocrates himself dissected. There are certain of the Hippocratic writings the perusal of which makes it very difficult indeed to suppose that he had acquired his knowledge of Anatomy in any other way than by dissection of the human body. This remark applies to such treatises as those,— " msi &s6e*»>" on the Articulations, and " IlsSi &yi*5>v," on Fractures. But, while I presume such to be the probable reflection of the pro- fessional reader, of the works now cited, and, although in a less degree, of certain other treatises, it will be admitted by all that the osteological knowledge which these display their author as possess- in o- was far in advance of his acquaintance with other departments of Anatomical inquiry. In Myology Hippocrates was certainly not well informed. The Greek word f^i does not occur in any of 1 Aristotle; a Chapter from the History of Science, including Analyses of Aristotle's Scientific Writings, by George Henry Lewes. See p. 159.