8 sensibilities have become obtuse, but because their power of abstrac- tion has overcome the solicitations of suggestion. They have not become hardened; they have simply learned to concentrate their thoughts upon a definite pursuit. Were it not for this we might wonder that men did not consent to remain for ever unenlightened on the marvels of their organization, rather than acquire the know- ledge by so repulsive a route. But the passion for knowledge is imperious. It urges men to surmount all obstacles—to brave the prejudices of others after suppressing their own—to brave human laws—to rob the grave in the dead of night, and pursue their study in secrecy and peril. This passion furnishes the power of abstrac- tion ; and hence it is that Anatomy has been pursued by poets, theologians, and even women. Goethe, for example, a nature of the keenest sensibility, who could not bear to look upon Schiller dead,—even he was an anatomist. Haller, one of the greatest anato- mists, was early and late a poet of some mark. Bossuet was not repelled from the study; he wrote an ana tomical tractate. Anna Man- zolina made those wax preparations of every part of the body which became the pride of Bologna; and for these she had herself held the scalpel, " con virile e forte animo, e con incredibile costanza." 1 Leaving the times of Hippocrates and Aristotle, we come to the period of the early cultivation of Medicine in Egypt. You have all heard of the city and library of Alexandria. The former— founded as its name denotes, by the renowned Alexander the Great —rose into importance through the magnificence of the Ptolemies, the Grecian kings of Egypt, about three hundred years before the birth of Christ. In that city there existed a famous medical school, and, in connexion with it, there were eminent cultivators of Anatomy, to whose labours a brief reference must now be made. In an early part of the first book of Celsus, when the writer is taking a short survey of the history of Medicine antecedent to his own time, there occurs this passage:—" Post quern "—that is Hippocrates, to whom lie had just paid a well-merited tribute of praise—" Diocles Carys- tius, deinde Praxagoras et Chrysippus, turn Herophilus et Erasis- tratus sic artem hanc exercuerunt, ut etiam in diversas curandi vias processerint." The last two mentioned in this enumeration of worthies—Herophilus and Erasistratus—were the pillars of the anatomical school of Alexandria. The acquaintance which we have with both is due entirely to the works of Celsus, Galen, and Cash us Aurelianus (probably the contemporary of Galen in the second century of the Christian era), none of their writings, except in a 1 Op. cit., page 161.