15 his work, and that work alone, continued to be the acknowledged, and indeed the only permitted, text-book of Anatomy. During that period there were many distinguished men in the profession of Medi- cine and Surgery, of whom Guy de Chauliac and Vigo, in their attachment to the latter, may be mentioned. Nor are there want- ing, during the same period, names sufficiently eminent in Anatomy —as, for example, Richard, surnamed Anglus, to distinguish him from a French anatomist of the same name; Mathieu de Gradibus (that is, of Grado, a village near Milan); and Gabriel de Zerbus, who, at the very commencement of the sixteenth century, published a volume of Anatomy, containing evidence of no inconsiderable re- search. The restrictions which had been imposed on the method of studying Anatomy had, however, effectually hindered all progress till a somewhat later period of the same century. Among several highly distinguished anatomists to whose lives and labours your attention must now be briefly directed, there ranks first, in point of time, Berenger of Carpi, or, in his own language, Jacopo Berengario da Carpi, very commonly called simply Carpi. Carpi ultimately became Professor of Surgery in the University of Bologna. In order to acquire as thorough a knowledge of Anatomy as possible, Carpi dissected a large number of animals, and was wont likewise to boast that he had dissected more than a hundred human bodies. So great was his zeal for anatomical investigations, that a slander similar to that already mentioned in the case of the ancient pro- fessors Herophilus and Erasistratus was raised against him, of practising human vivisection. Tiraboschi thus refers to it: " That in order to satisfy his curiosity, and at the same time to gratify his hatred against the Spaniards, he opened two men of that nation, that he might observe the movements of the heart in each ; for this offence he was exiled from the city." Of course Tiraboschi does not believe the report thus propagated to the injury of Carpi; on the contrary, denouncing it as a slander, he ascribes it entirely to what he styles " la popolare credulittl." 1 Portal, the learned author of the " Histoire de l'Anatomie et de la Chirurgie," thus expresses himself in regard to it: " This imputation is little merited; Carpi himself, in a passage-of one of his works, declaims against Erasis- tratus and Herophilus for having pursued this method of investiga- tion : the reproach which Carpi repeats against these two great men is as little applicable to him as to them. " The public " (Portal continues) "enlarges or greatly embellishes all such subjects, and regards as marvellous what it is unable to understand. From the 1 Tiraboschi, torn, vii., part ii., page 30.