20 nerves may be studied now with interest. I will not say that these afford the best evidence of his genius and skill—how could they ? Was not a new physiology required for the former, before the vascu- lar ramifications could be accurately described or at all understood? and that only came when, at the beginning of the seventeenth century, Harvey proclaimed that the blood everywhere circulates. Before leaving Vesalius, let us pause one moment to admire his intense devotion to science—his favourite science in particular, Anatomy. His zeal and that of his fellow-workers led them to strange scenes of adventure. " They," to use the striking language of Hallam, " prowled by night in charnel-houses, they dug up the dead from the grave, they climbed the gibbet in fear and silence to steal the mouldering carcass of the murderer; the risk of ignominious punishment and the secret stings of superstitious remorse, exalting no doubt the delight of these useful but not very enviable pursuits," How different our position, and how much greater our privileges now, gentlemen! Such scenes as are thus graphically described by Hallam, have indeed been enacted within a much more recent period than that embraced in the latter portion of this sketch. The " resurrectionist" is an individual familiar to, and " grave doings" —as Samuel Warren with a questionable facetiousness styles it—is an employment not altogether unknown by some still living members of our profession. The exigencies of science demanded a remedy, and the " Anatomy Act" in great part provided it. If the history of our profession teaches us anything, it teaches the importance of anatomical studies, both for the surgeon and the physician. All good surgeons are good anatomists. Our excellent and esteemed chairman1 is an example of the truth of that statement; before he became distinguished as a surgeon, he was reputed one of the most accomplished anatomists of his day. But I hasten to bring these already too lengthened observations to a close, and this I shall do by a very brief reference to the life and labours of two most distinguished anatomists of a period identical, or nearly so, with that of Vesalius—Eustachius and Fallopius. Both are names as familiar to you as your own ; both have given an impulse to ana- tomical nomenclature which has secured their own immortality. The latter of these, Gabriel Fallopius, was born at Modena in 1523, and became, as already mentioned, the pupil of Vesalius. Before applying himself to the study of Medicine Fallopius had made great 1 Professor Spence occupied the chair during the delivery of this address : and there were also present Dr Handyside, Dr G. \Y. Balfour, Dr Joseph Bell. Mr Annandale, Dr Fordyce Messcr, etc., etc.