I have said that for two centuries after the death of Mundinus, 11 monkeys, it is a legitimate conelusion from his writings, as well as from what we otherwise know, that he may occasionally have practised a similar dissection. Still these dissections were all made in private—indeed secretly—through fear of discovery and conse- quent ill usage and disgrace. Mundinus was the first publicly to dissect the human body. In 1315, when Professor of Anatomy in Bologna, it is recorded of Mundinus that, for the first time, he pub- licly dissected the bodies of two females. Thereafter he published a description of the human body. This manual of Anatomy of Mundinus attained so high a reputation that, till after the middle of the sixteenth century, the demonstrator of Anatomy in the Uni- versity of Padua—then the most distinguished medical school in Italy—was bound to use this work and no other. What the demon- strator did, indeed, was to show the parts on the dead body accord- ing to the text of Mundinus. It was required of all candidates for the degree of medicine in Padua, that they should be well instructed in the Anatomy of Mundinus. His book was much more to them than Quain or Ellis, or Holden, or Gray's is to you, gentlemen ; as the following excerpt from the academic law on the subject will prove:—" Ut Anatomici Paduani explicationem textualem ipsius Mundini sequantur." And this law was not abrogated, but remained in strict force for two centuries after the deatli of Mun- dinus. Thus there was no encouragement given to discovery or improvement in anatomical knowledge. To know what Mundinus had done and written was enough. While we cannot fail to denounce the absurdity of this plan, it is nevertheless sufficient to exhibit the great respect and esteem in which Mundinus and his work were held. Mundinus also published a volume of Anatomical Plates; and some of these, engraved on wood, are to be found in certain of the old editions of his book. " They are not," says Portal, " absolutely bad." I shall not dwell in detail on the descriptions of the Bologna professor; it is more interesting for you to hold in remembrance, in connexion with his name and time, that in all the universities of Europe then existing, with which Medicine was incorporated as a faculty, and that held true of most—Montpellier in France being for a time only an exception—there was established, as the direct consequence of the labours of Mondini, the public dissection once or twice every year of the human body. The dissection was intrusted to a youthful barber, who accomplished it in the rudest manner by means of a razor; and, while so engaged, the professor demonstrated the parts by a reference to the work of Mondini.