5 the undoubtedly genuine writings; when reference is made to muscles, it is by the term <tdg} equivalent to the Latin caro, flesh, or fleshy part. This is the word, or rather its plural ffagxEC, which four centuries before the time of Hippocrates was used by Homer, in whose descriptions of the wounds received in battle it is suffi- ciently remarkable that, with no little appearance of anatomical nicety, flesh and not muscle, just as in the pages of the later medical writer, is the term usually, indeed almost constantly, employed. The late learned Dr Whewell1 has remarked that Homer "nowhere employs the word muscle." In this, however, he is not correct, as the following passage from the Iliad proves. I take the translation of Professor Blackie :—2 " Phyleides then Amphiclus caught with keen-preventing glance, And stayed him in his mid attack, and drave the forceful lance Into his leg where thick the muscle swells:3 his sinews' might The baleful weapon rives: and-deathful darkness veils his sight." It is scarcely necessary to remind you that the pages of Homer, both of the Iliad and the Odyssey, contain much that is of interest to the student of medical history, were it only in the parts played by Podalirius and Machaon, the so-called sons of iEsculapius, who followed Agamemnon to the Trojan war. But returning from this short digression, it may be said that in the peculiarly hostile feeling which the Greeks entertained to any interference with the bodies of the dead, as well as in the ignorance of anything like correct anatomical knowledge displayed in their writings, there is unquestionably sufficient proof of dissections not having been generally practised. As to the former, the Greek laws of sepulture were stringent in the extreme. In Athens the Demarch, governor of the people, who allowed a corpse to remain for a single day unburied, was subjected to a heavy fine. The laws of certain states required that whoever found a dead body should obtain for it immediate interment on pain of death; and the history of Greece re- veals the fact that victorious generals have been condemned to die, because they neglected to see to the burial of those who had been slain in battle. How sacred the dead were considered by the Greeks is abundantly shown by Sophocles in the Antigone, as well as by Euripides in certain of his plays. The strong popular feeling in this respect wa3 further increased by the belief that the soul, freed 1 Whewell; History of the Inductive Sciences, from the earliest to the present time; 3d edition, vol. hi., p. 319. 2 Homer, Iliad, book 16, line 306; Translation, vol. iii.