!> - fragmentary form in the authors just named, having reached our time. Galen, in one of his treatises (De Dissectione Matricis), speaks of Herophilus carrying the practice of Anatomy to the higliest possible degree of perfection. Fallopius, one of the most distinguished anatomists in more modern times (1532-62), testifies in the highest terms to the accuracy of his descriptions. It is beyond all doubt that the dissection of the human body was prac- tised by Herophilus as well as by the scarcely less distinguished— although that was more as a physician—Erasistratus. Celsus not only alludes to the zeal with which they studied Anatomy, but accuses them of performing vivisections. In discussing the prin- ciples and practice of the two rival sects—and they were the earliest in Medicine—the Dogmatists and Empirics—this renowned Latin writer observes:—" Necessarium ergo esse incidere corpora mor- tuorum, eorumque viscera atque intestina scrutari; longeque optime fecisse Herophilum et Erasistratum, qui nocentes homines, e regibus ex carcere acceptos, vivos inciderint, considerarintque, etiamnum spiritu remanente, ea, quse natura ante claussiset, eorumque positum, colorem, figuram, magnitudinem, ordinem, duritiem, mollitiem, lasvorem, contactum ; processus deinde singulorum et recessus, et sive quid inseritur alteri, sive quid partem alterius in se recipit." That the accusation, moreover, was believed by Celsus to be true, is apparent from the apology for the practice, offered by him a little further on in the same connexion:—" Neque esse crudele," he observes, " sicut plerique proponunt, hominum nocentium, et horum quoque paucorum, suppliciis remedia populis innocentibus ssecu- lorum omnium quasri." The charge thus brought against these famous Alexandrian teachers has, however, been substantiated by no other medical authority. Curiously enough, it is repeated by Tertullian—the most ancient of the Latin Fathers whose works remain—in a strange passage, in which he further mentions that Herophilus had dissected six hundred persons; while he styles him " ille medicus aut lanius." It is also alluded to by the industrious col- lector of information of every kind and from all sources, Pliny. For my part, I do not credit the impeachment, and am of opinion that the steady devotion of these eminent men to their favourite study of Anatomy, had led to what I shall venture to characterize as a base slander. This view, moreover, receives a strong support from the circumstance, which is not lost sight of by Hseser, the Ge rman historian of Medicine, in his learned work 11 Geschichte der Medicin," that a similar charge, and one wholly without founda- tion, was brought against the foremost anatomists in those modern