12 in his writings, upholds the practice of dissection. It is, however, very doubtful if he ever dissected the human body. Studying, as he did, for a time in Alexandria, he counts himself fortunate to have there observed two human skeletons, of which one was that of a robber to whom the right of burial had been denied. The erroneous application of facts observed in Comparative Anatomy, to that of the human body, is conspicuous in many passages of his writings. This remark holds true even in his Osteology—a branch of the subject with which acquaintance could most readily have been formed. He is, for example, strangely inaccurate about the ribs. He never found more than thirteen—eleven he had seen rarely—the usual number was twelve. Again, he says, there are seven distinct pieces of bone in the sternum. In Myology he made important discoveries : he first observed the " popliteus muscle," also the cutaneous muscle of the neck, named by him vXdrva^a pvudtg (muscular sheath or expansion), a term still retained; both superficial muscles, you will notice, not requiring dissection properly so called, for their examination, and which, in so far as the human subject is concerned, he probably made acquaint- ance with, in some instances of persons wounded in the neck and lower limbs. Curiously, he denied a muscular structure to the heart, maintaining that such is far too simple for the numerous functions which it has to perform. The muscles of mastication, in part, and those of the larynx, he fully described; also the muscles of the back, the ligaments of the spine, and the vertebral column itself. His knowledge of the vascular system was far from accu- rate. Veins originated in the liver; arteries had their commence- ment at the heart. The anastomosis of veins and arteries he knew. I cannot now follow the Galenic descriptions of the nervous system; suffice it to say, that he derived the nerves of sensation from the brain, and those of motion from the spinal cord. To the heart he allowed no nerves; it was an insensible organ. The cerebral eminences, four in number, two on each side behind the pineal gland, are accurately described ; these were afterwards styled, and, as you know, still go under the vulgar names of the " nates and testes." The " septum lucidum," and corpus callosum," are indicated; the lateral ventricles more fully delineated. The eye is well portrayed by Galen, but it is much more the eye of a sheep or a calf than of man. I am forbidden, by want of time, from con- tinuing this account of the Anatomy, and from entering at all on a consideration of the Galenical Physiology. In the centuries suc- ceeding that in which Galen flourished, there were many Greeks