17 there flourished a distinguished French anatomist, who caused great advances to be made in the knowledge of Anatomy, and with whose name, at least, you are all abundantly familiar. You all know the fissure of Sylvius, and have at all events heard of the aqueduct of Sylvius—the " iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum." These two signal-posts testify to the carefulness with which a certain Sylvius had examined the brain. But that is not the Sylvius of whom I now speak, and we must be careful not to confound them. The enthusiastic explorer of the brain, Francois de la Boe, surnamed Sylvius (on account of his paternal acres), flourished at a period remote from the time which now engages our attention, and to which our present inquiry will not conduct us—the middle of the seven- teenth century. The complete name of the earlier anatomist Sylvius was Francois Jacques Dubois. He was born at Louville, a village in France, near Amiens. His social lot was very differently cast from that of his successor in the seventeenth century. Portal says he was born of a family " peu riche et tres charge'e d'enfans," or as we should express it, although the expression is objectionable, " poor and with many encumbrances." The great merit of the earlier Sylvius—that which secures for him the title of " Restorer of Anatomy in France," as Mondini was in Italy—lies in the circumstance that he first substi- tuted the human body for purposes of dissection, for pigs, which previously had always been so employed. To Sylvius has been assigned by some the distinction of having first practised injection of the vessels for anatomical investigations. Whether he deserves this merit or not, there is no doubt that Sylvius is the first author who makes mention of this most important and valuable practice. But, being a blind admirer of the ancients, an enthusiastic worshipper of Galen, one who had never learned the lesson, " Nullius addictus jurare in verba magistri." Sylvius, while describing many facts with sufficient accuracy, fell into numerous errors. On discovering a discrepancy between his own observations and the descriptions of Galen, he was far too prone, and indeed ever prone, to confess his own want of correct- ness, and to magnify the physician of Pergamos. To so ridiculous a length did Sylvius carry this practice, as to account for the devia- tions from the Galenic descriptions, by concluding that the human species had undergone a marked degeneration since the days of Galen. One great distinction Sylvius had, although, as we shall presently see, he at one time sadly abused it—he was the teacher of Vesalius.