18 We have now reached a very bright epoch in the history of Anatomy, for " every early anatomist," as the distinguished Hallam, in his " Introduction to the Literature of Europe," has expressed it, " was left far behind when Vesalius, a native of Brussels, who acquired in youth an extraordinary reputation on this side of the Alps, and in 1540 became professor of the Science at Pavia, pub- lished at Basle, in 1543, his great work " De Corporis Humani Fab rica." 1 Portal, who certainly runs the risk of being supposed to account all mankind inferior to anatomists, exclaims, in the rap- turous strain of one devoted to his own science, " Vesalius appears to me one of the greatest men who ever existed. Let the astrono- mers vaunt their Copernicus, the natural philosophers their Galileo andTorricelli, the mathematicians their Pascal, the geographers their Columbus,—I shall always place Vesalius above all their heroes— ' The proper study for mankind is man.' " Having completed his studies at Brussels, Vesalius passed to Paris, and there, under Sylvius, of whom mention has been made, continued with unabated zeal to prosecute his anatomical inquiries. He subsequently acted as a military surgeon, and, his reputation augmenting, accepted the invitation of the Republic of Venice to fill the chair of Medicine and Anatomy at the University of Padua. That duty he discharged during a period of seven years, and, while so engaged in 1539, published his anatomical plates, which at once arrested the attention of the scientific world, and have ever since been deservedly regarded as an enduring monument of his wonder- ful genius and power of observation. As was likely, Vesalius, de- scribing Nature as he found her, ran counter in many particulars to the dicta of Galen, and thus excited at first the jealousy, and sub- sequently the bitter hostility of those able though prejudiced men who still accepted implicitly the whole burden of the physician of Pergamos. Ultimately Europe itself rung with the violence to which Vesalius was exposed. The renowned Eustachius at Rome, Dryander at Marbourg, and Sylvius, his old master and friend, at Paris, attacked him in the most furious manner—the last men- tioned, acting as unhappily some scientific men in all ages of the world's history have manifested a tendency to do,—condescended to add to his censoriousness the lowest conceivable invective. He addressed Vesalius asVesanus (mad, insane)—an opprobrious epithet to be applied to a genius of the highest order. On demitting his chair at Padua, Vesalius became Court Physician to the Emperor 1 5th edition, vol., i. p. 467.