11 I should not even have named the great Roman writer, did I not, in doing so, emphatically distinguish the period we have reached in this short sketch; and, besides, it is possible that some of you might have attributed my silence regarding him to inadvertence. The admirable work of Celsus—as it has reached our time, no doubt incomplete—" De Re Medica," or " De Medicina, libri octo " —is occupied entirely with the description of internal and surgical diseases, together with their appropriate treatment. His observa- tions on Anatomy, with the exception of Osteology, are not numerous. In the department just named, however, there is an excellent description of certain of the bones—the maxillary bones for example; and it is very evident, from the accuracy of the details which are supplied, that this distinguished Roman writer had carefully inves- tigated the anatomy of the ear, and recognised the existence of the semicircular canals, which, as you know, three in number, are situ- ated above and rather behind the vestibule. But Celsus must not detain us, nor can I find time at present to say anything of Asclepiades, who, shortly before the time of Celsus, coming from Prusa in Bithynia, of which he was a native, settled in Rome, and achieved a great reputation; or of Cassius, Themison, the founder of the Methodic School, Thessalus, Archigenes, Areteeus, the renowned Cappadocian, as elegant a writer as he was a skilled physician;1 Scribonius Largus, Ruffus Ephesius, and many others, of whose labours, were I now offering you a sketch of the progress of Medicine as a whole, it would be altogether unpardonable to avoid making at least some mention. These men, however, did little or nothing for the advancement of Anatomy, and so we come to the time of Galen—that is the second century of the Christian era. He was born A.d. 131. In respect to the great physician of Pergamos, the question has also been debated, whether his knowledge of Anatomy was gained by dissection of the human body, or solely from that of dogs and monkeys. To the latter, frequent references are no doubt made in the Galenic writings, as well as in those of other Greek physicians ; and there can be no question that the ape was selected, because it was supposed to bear the closest resemblance in its anatomical structure and conformation to man. Of the vast importance of Anatomy as a study, Galen was profoundly conscious; and frequently, 1 Inaccurate in his anatomical descriptions, and, indeed, uninformed in Anatomy as this great physician was, it is interesting, notwithstanding, to notice that his genius had already recognised Anatomy and Physiology as the true basis of Medicine.