FRA flat where the fraffare is; and if the cartilage is the futfering part, the nofc leans to one fide. If the in- jury is confiderable, the cure is incomplete; and from the ncarnels of this part to the brain, the danger is confiderable ; an ozarna, a caries, or a polypus, majr be the confequence. In order to a cure, place the patient in a reclining pofturc, and elevate the de- preffed parts of the nofe with a narrow fpatula, or any other inftruincnt of a fimilar form, replacing them in their proper order with the fore-finger and thumb of your other hand; to prevent their collap- linsr, introduce a canula, covered with foft hnt, and (pread with anv bland ointment. If any part of the bone is raifed above the reft, apply a double headed roller : if there is no wound, a plaftcr may luffice to fecurc the whole; and if there is a wound, treat it as if on any other part. If a fphnter is fo (ituated as not to be‘re-united but with difficulty, re- move it. When the bones arc reduced, they do not eaftly feparate again. " [ b'ruflnrcs of the fupfriw naxiUcav and cbetk-boHt.| When a frafturc of thefe bones ft retch toward tciej eyes, a dangerous inflammation may arife; and ifk they penetrate the antrum, deformity generally t»S the confequence. Where there is no wound, thep bones may be replaced with the fingers, and where* •he nuts are laid open, a narrow ipatula, or forcep'd t. . 1 r A ■ ic rhcl may be employed. A piece of adheftve plaftcr is thel beft bandage. If matter collcfts in the cavity of tl'.cj LK.U cmnuti^v* - » ~ ” , , r l antrum, an opening mu ft be rmue in the molt d j pending part. enuing pari. Frafturcs of ihr inferior moat uiry fours. I neij ^ /• i •• i It.. &1./V . Illl.l fra&urcs arc eaftly ditcovcrod by the touch; bui generally the pain and deformity they occafion, lutl ficiently'indicate them. To replace them, let th| patient's head be firmly held a little back., mtroJucl vour-finger or thumb of one hand into the patient* mouth, and apply the fingers of the other hand *