CAN may be diffolved in the fccond bottle of the folution, and eight in the third. But, bcfides this, Dr. Le Fe- hure thinks it unadvifeable to proceed. In general, he fays, fix bottles of the folution is fufficient for the cure of an open cancer; in one cafe, however, eight were necelfary. He alfcrts, that this method is never at- tended with any ill accidents; and adds, that the arfe- nic does not aft in any certain manner upon the fecrc- tions. A purgative, compounded of manna, rhubarb, and fal feignette, is to be given every eight or twelve days. Whey, with twelve grains of nitre to the bot- tle, or a weak dccoftion of the roots of marflunallows, with the fame quantity of nitre, may be given for com- mon drink. The belly is to be kept open by glyf- ters of whey, bran-water, or pure water, with the ad- dition of emollient herbs, if necelfary, or a little ho- ney. With refpeft to regimen, it is direfted to abftain from wine, and fermented liquors. Broth, made with a little beef, veal, or chicken, are proper. Broiled, roafted, or boiled meat, ought to be taken in fmall quantity. Spinnage, lettuce, fuccory, or forrei, may be given with advantage. Ripe fruit is not to be di.- charged. Rice cream, and milk in different forms, 3re a very proper part of diet. The deftor has fometitnes been obliged to give the bark, and to open an iffue, when the humours were cither very alkalefcenr, or in very great quantity. He confulers an llfuc as ufeful in every calc. When the ulcer is cicatrized, he recom- mends cold or warm mineral waters, according to tht circumftances of the patient, with a view of complet- ing the cure, or where thefe cannot be had, he give artificial ones. Bcfides this treatment by internal itte dicincs, the method of drefling the ulcer becomes a.!< an objeft of attention. If the tumour be not ulccrat ed, he direfts it to be waflted with a folution of at feme having eight grains in a pint of water. After wafhin with this folution, apply the following cataplaim : tak of carrot juice, one pound; of fugar of lead, half ' ounce