H Y D lircdfed; when the inflammation is removed, and here are no fymptoms of matter forming, mercurial ridfion has been employed with fuccefs. It mud be ift'd for fome weeks to keep the mouth merely fore. .u.e Dran recommends pouring warm water from a weight on thefe fvvellings, as highly beneficial. When he joint becomes ftiff from the bent pofition in which :t has been kept, a free ufe of emollients, as diredted :n article distortio, mull be adopted. When fup- juration comes on, open the different abfeeffes. ‘The fecorui Jpccies, is feldom oecafioned by any ex- crnal accident. It generally begins without the pa- ient being able to account for it. From the effedts it .iroduces on the bones it attacks, it would appear to .e a fpecies of the real fpina ventola ; and which is probably a difeafe of the fame nature in the bones, as he fcrophula is of the foft parts. This fpecies of .veiling is generally attended with other fymptoms of crophula, or the patient has been fubjedt to that difi- rder at an early period of his life. When thefe .veilings arc attended with other fymptoms of fero- hula, we may pronounce it of a lcrophulous nature, n the lmall joints, if the difeafed bones come away, y aififting nature, a cure may poflTibly be effedfed. ut in the large joints, particularly of the knee and tkle, amputation is the only probable rel'ource, but it tould not be advifed till the difeafe is far advanced, tr fliould it ever be recurred, until every means tor ving the limb have been employed. From every fymptom and appearance on diflfedtion, tis fpecies of white fwelling, feems to be an affedtion the bones only ; the furrounding foft parts fullering tly from their conncdtion. Vide Hell on Ulcers, lonro's Works, 4x0 edition 1781, p. 460. Edin. Med. flays, vol. iv. Lond. Med.Tranf. vol. i. White's, Sur- :ry, aud a Paper on this fubjedt in a Colledtion of •athological Inquiries and-Oblcrvations on Surgery, ' Riek.rd Broiun Cbejlu/i, lurgeon to the Glouccfter firmary. IIvdro-