L I T •;hc table. An aflitbant on each. fide vkould fecurc the legs and arms : one rrmft prevent him from mov- ing die upper part of his body ; another muft lay i laid of the Half,. and let a fifth be ready to hand the ucclfary inlhuments. Nov.- touch the hone again with the ftnflf, ami pais the handle of it over the right groin of die patieut, Id that the convex part of the inftrumen*. may be diflinguilhcd on the left fide of the pcriiiiauiB. Let an afftftant preferve it in this ;pofmon, by bedding the hand.e with his right hand) while with his left he elevates and iuppocts the fere turn. Now being feared between the. patient and the tvbidow, matte an incifion through the fkiu and isellular fubflancc, at lealf four inches long in a full grown perlbn, and lo in proportion in final lor fined :people; beginning a little to the left fide of tho .agha., about an inch from, die termination of the .eretum, and proceed in an oblique direction along the peiinauun, till, ix is made to run at an equal dif- itance between-1lie- tuberofity of the ii'chium and the snus, width lali, it ought to pais about an inch. By this firft ftroiee of the fcalpcJ, the Ihm and cellular I.ubftancc fhoidd be freely divided, fo a., to bring the fubjiccnt mu [flics completely into view ; when, by a continuation of the incifion, the creator penis, acce- lerator urinsc, and tranfucrfalis pcrioaii, are alio to be divided. The levator ani being intermixed with tittle mulclc?, will aifo be cut. This incifion completed, with the index ef your left liand feardi for the Half, tnd naving found it, pulh the jsoint of your finger along the courfe of it tf.l you pci’s tlie bulb of the urethra, then with, tht edge of your knife turned towarefe the groove of.the ftaff, divide the membran- ous part of die urethra in it= w hole courfe, from the profiaic gland to th»- buibv Now lay afide the deal pci, ■ and with tire cutting gorget divide the profit ate gland, iv tch a. fmi.ll pn.ucu e>f the nock of the biadder. D d Guide