CAR v ... »( four hours from the fir ft attack. But when a tumour arifes, as foon as it is opened, a livid fanies, or fome- tiipes limpid water, is difeharged. It is black within, which fhews that a fphacelus has feized the fubjacent flcih, and is making quick progrefs. In thofe that re- cover, a reparation is made betwixt the found and dif- I cafed flefh, by fuppuration. There is no part of the I body but what may be the feat, and they are generally attended with buboes. The proximate caufe is the in- flammation from peftilential contagion, with a putref- cent ftate of the fyftem. Danger is great when the colour is livid; the milder fort are firft red and then yellow. When they are feated on the face, neck, breaft, and arm pits, they are generally fatal., When they occur internally, upon any of the vifeera, they rnuil probably prove fatal. Externally, when they are not very extenfive, nor feated in any of the large blootl veflels or nerves, they are frequently got the better of, by removing the affe&cd part. External applications Ihould be only fuch as.eafe pain. Vide Edin. Med. Comment, vol. vi. p. 165. Heifier’s Surgery. Bell on Ulcers. Kirkland's Med. Surgery, vol. i. and ii. Pearfm's Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and White's Surgery. Caries, is a difordcr of the bones, exadily of the fame nature with a fphacelus, or gangrene of the foft parts. The caufes are, whatever can by croflon, or otherwife, deftroy the circulation in the whole, or any part of the bone, as, wounds in general, affedfing cither the pcrioftcum or bones; violent contufions, and inflammations of the pcrioftcum, terminating in abfccfsl or gangrene ; the acrid matter of ulcers penetrating and deftroying the pcrioftcum, and the improper ap- plication of fharp acrid fpirits and powders to bones merely laid bare. An inflammation of the pcrioftcum, tending to a gangrene, a caries of the bone, i> known, firft, from the figns of inflammation preceding; fccondly, a freedom from pain in the affcdled par, • • • • without