U L C fimple that can occur, both in its fymptoms and me- thod of cure; and it is to its ftate, thit all others fnuft be reduced before a permanent cure can be expedted. In the cure of this fpecies of ulcer, as there is very little inflammation, and no preterna- tural fweiling fuppofed to take place, but merely a vacuity, either from a real lofs of fubftancc, or from a retradtion of parts (imply divided, the dil'charge at the fame time being of a mild purulent nature, the only indications that appear ncccffary are, First, To dimini/b, as much as pojfiblr, any •vacancy the ulcer nay barJi occajioned; to accomplilli which, the for- mation of new granulations, and the decay of filch parts as are immediatclv contiguous to the ulcer are requifire. To effeft the formation of new granules, inflammation and acrimony muft be removed, and pledgets of lint, fpread thinly with the ungt. cereum, Ph. Edinb. may be applied every twelve or twenty- four hours, to the furface of the fore. If inflam- mation attends the ulcer, moderate it by the appli- cation of warm emollient cataplafms ; but as fcon as this inflammation fubfides, omit the cataplalms, left an cxcefs of laxity be produced. Thus, by mild dreffings, irritation is prevented, and by preferring a proper degree of heat in the, part, a good matter will be produced, and firm granulations. To diniindh or deftroy the parts about the ulcer, fuch as fungous flefh ; as foon as the inflammatory (late is over, and good matter is induced, (light compreflion, by means of a roller, may be immediately applied, and (hould be continued during the remainder of the cure. The roller (hould be applied fo as not only to aft as a gentle preffure upon the parts immediately fur- rounding the ulcer, but likewile to terve as a fup- port to the (kin, and other teguments, (o as to pre- vent their retradion, which other wife, in large niters especially, is very ready to happen. Skcondly, To induce the formation of a cicatrix. This is frequently etfeclcd