* A M A the inoculation of the venereal poifon, by means of a bougie, previoufly applied for about half an hour to a pcrlon afflidled with a clap, and then introduced into the urethra, has been attended with unexpedted fuccefs, under Dr. Swediaur’s infpedtion. Vide his Pradlical Obfervations on Venereal Complaints, p. 53. Amaurosis, from «/xasf3«u, cbfcure. A decay, or lofs of eye-fight, when no fault is obferved in the eye, except that the pupil is fomewhat enlarged and motionlefs. The Latins call this difordcr a Chita Se- rena : cellaraRa nigra, offujcaliv, caatas minor, ntydria- Jis. The tabes pupillce may be confidered as afpecies of this difeafe. Some call it amblyopocia. Mr. de St. Yves diftinguilhes this difeafe into the perfedt and imperfect kinds. The perfedt is when there is a total blindiiefs •, the imperfcdl is when there is at lcaft a power of diftinguiihmg light from dark- nefs. There is a periodical fort, which comes on in- llantaneoufly, continues for fomc hours, and fomc- t'imes days, and then difappears ; but it often returns,] as in hyfierical and hypochondriacal people, &c. Inj another fpecicr, the pupil is always contradted, whc-l ther the unaffedted eye is open or liiut. In infants! attended w ith this complaint, the pupil is oft of ita natural fire, but no movement is obferved there, howJ ever exp; fed to the light. The nydlalops isfuppofeJ by fomc to be a fpccies of this complaint. The different caufcs are a pally in the optic nervej or the retina, proceeding from a flight apoplexy, &el a tumour, or a plethora in the adjacent paits; a tranll latiop of morbid matter from fomc oth^r part of tha optic nerve, or to the retina ; a venereal, or a rhcumal tic humour, may, by falling on the-eye, lie the caufel Supprefle 1 periodical evacuations, vapours, hyftericl and other nervous fymptoms, external injuries, a prel tcrnatural contradfion, as well as too great a dilatation of the iris, or whatever intercepts the nervous inj tfucncc in the eye, may produce this difeafe. Inthl middle