CAR JUnce ; of arfenic diffolved in diftilled vinegar, half zq lance ; of liquid laudanum, a dram and a half; form the • vhole into a mafs of a proper confiftence. with as much uowdercd hemlock as is- neceffary. With part of this iataplafm the tumour is to be covered to a tolerable ■hicknefs, and the whole kept up with the common daftcr. If the cancer be ulcerated, it is adviled that he ichorous ferofity be taken away at each dreding, y means of dry lint. The ulcer is then to be fomented *'ith the arfenical folution, having the chill taken otf :, and having about one third of red wine added to it. ■ f the fore be of a very bad kind, it is advifed that the rfenic be diffolved in a deception of bark, for foment- ig the ulcer. After this the cataplalm mentioned bove, and the plafter are to be applied. This treat- ment mull be renewed every twelve hours. The aura ekflrka has been found to cafe the pain, ■dolt of the medicines here recommended have been aund ferviceable for a time, and then to lofe their ffeft. The method, therefore, to procure the patient continuation of relief, is by changing your applica- ons. Vide Le Dran’s Operations. Boerhaave'% jtphorifms. Med. Muf. vol. i. p. 8i, &c. and 338, et cq. Lond. Med. Tranf. vol. i. p. 75. Goocb’s Med. •bf. vol. iii. Hill on Cancers. Bell on Ulcers. JuJla- toxd on Cancers. Bell's Surgery, vol. ii. Pear fan % Irincip. of Surgery, vol. i. p. 209, et feq. and Pradti- il Obf. on Cancerous Complaints. White's Surgery, id Fear on on Cancers. Carbc.vcuu's, a carbuncle, from carlo, a burn* ’8 roal. Dr. Cullen places this as a variety of the "ilogofis erythema, on account of its violence, making fynonymous with anthrax, -Ad the erythema gangrse- dum of Sauvages. Carbuncles generally appear fud- enly and unexpedtedly in an hour or two, and arc tended with pain and heat. The inflammation pro- -cds fo rapidly to mortification, that there is feldom >iy evident tumour raifed, the parts turning black, ud ending in real gangrene, frequently in twenty- L 3 four