G O N through the divided integuments, and the lips of the wound, by thefe means, are to be brought together. Thcfe Hitches, however, mud not pafs into the cavity of the joint; indead of uniting the parts in this cafe, j they would aft as fetons, and produce inflammations in place of preventing it. If pofliblc, heal the wound i by the firfl intention ; a piece of dicking pladcr, with j proper bandage, and pofition of the joint, may even make ditches in the integuments unncceflary. The circumdances which the operator has mod to avoid, Mr. Hunter fays, are the expefing the cavity of the joint too much; the lacerating or bruifing of the cap- i’ular ligament; the not properly clofing the orifice in the integuments; or the employing a blunt or dirty indrument in the dividing them. All, or any of thcfe cir- cumdances, he thinks, will produce inflammaiion in the joint, and render the operation exceedingly dangerous. But in tolerably found conftitutions, the operation now recommended, performed with the neccffary precau- tions, he is convinced, is as fafe a one as mod opera- tions in forgery. When the cavity of the joint has inflamed, the danger, he owns, is very great. Liga- ment and cartilage, the fubdances compofing joints, have fewer veflels than any other parts, perhaps, of an animal body; they inflame, fuppurdte, or go through the ufual proccflcs of parts under irritation, with greater difficulty ; aud, when they have gone through them, the confequcnccs are generally deftruftive of rhe ordinary intentions of thefe precedes; the joint diffens, and is dedroyed, indead of being recovered, Vide Mr. Cruikjbank’s Letter to Dr. Duncan, in the Edinb. Med. Commentaries, vol. iv. p. 34c, et Icq. Gonohrhcea, from ven>feec^i afid 10 fl'u' is an involuntary efflux of l'cminal juice. Dr Swediaur obferves, that this name is improperly ap- plied to the dileafe known by it. He propoles, if 5 Greek word is neccffary, to name it Btenuorrb<igi& from fiy.moc, mucus, and to flow, i. c. muctfluxo a'Trvus; and thus he didinguifhes it from the real go norr boats