■r r-r! TR E nnojfc experience than falls to the fhare of any iiidivi- dual pradtitioncr. The parts of the fkull which fhould not be touched in tins operation, if they can be avoided, are,' almoft ull the under part of the temporal and parietal bones* all the under part of the occipital bone; the infc’ nor part of the frontal bone; and the whole courie or the longitudinal finus. But when the de- prelTed pieces of bones, lays Mr. Bell, cannot be railed without applying the trepan over the'e parts, no delay Ihould be allowed in performing the opera- tion on any part. Indeed, it has been performed on moft of them with the belt fueccfs. I lie operation being determined on, the patient mould be laid on a firm table, with a pillow under his head, in which Hate it mud be firmly fccured by an • ififtant. Make an incifion as directed in the article Scalpo; remove a portion of the integuments for the application of the trephine, but not more of the pe- rici.mium than is pofitively ncccflary. The tempo- ral mufcle may be divided without danger. If, in making the incifion, you divide any arterial branch, <md the patient is of a robuft habit, let it bleed, but is debilitated, fecure it. Now afeertain the part to apply; your perforator, by the trephine, ar.d place the pin at the edge of the fradfurc not deprefled, fo that the head of the trephine may include a portion ot the deprefled piece. As loon as the hole is luffi- eicntly large to receive the point of the pin in the centre of the circular law, this Ihould be inferted in- to it, to fix the inftrument during the firft part of the operation, and when a cut is formed in the bone luf- ficient to retain it, remove the pin. Now proceed with great ftcadincfs, and with as equal a degree of preflure as polhblc, till the perforation is completed. Always fuppolc you are trephining a thin Ikull. Withdraw your inlirument frequently, and clear it ol the blood and particles of bone with a brufli; and to afeertain the depth of the cut, each time the law is taken out, introduce a probe, or a quill, not x very ,