HYD forption of the matter produces a quick puife, night fwcats, and a weakening diarrhoea, which ultimately prove fatal, if the limb is not removed ; or, the difeai'e cured bv feme other means. 'The fympiotns of the ft con J fpecies, which is the moft inveterate, arc, a more acute pain than in the rheumatic fpecies, and more confined to a particular fpot, moft frequently the middle of the joint; the 1 welling is at firft very in confide ruble, fo much io, that even when the pain has been very violent, but little difference could be difeovered in the fue of the difeafed and found joint. As the difeafe advances, the pain becomes more violent, the fweliing incrcafes, and the ends of the bones compofing the joints are evidently enlarged. After fome time, the tumour be- comes eiaftic, the veins varicofe, and matter is formed in different parts of it, which, upon being difeharged, is confiderable in quantity, fometimes purulent, but more frequently th n and fetid. On introducing a probe, if it can be puffed to the bottom of the fores, the bones will be found carious, and pieces of them arc often difchnrgcd at the openings. As the dif- eafe proceeds, night fweats, Sec. come on. 7be caifes of ike firft [fears, arc drains affecting the ligaments of the joints, producing inflammation ; bruifes, difloc-itions, or rheumatic arteflion. b oung, phleihoric peifoils are moft frequently th< fubiefts of this fpecies. As this is always at firft in damn "tory, bleed topically, and repeat it according to the violence of the fymptoms and ftrength of the patient. If nip- ping is employed, apply the inftruincnt on each fide t<f the difeafed joint. Leeches muft be applied on rhe fame part. After this, apply a blifier on the anteriour part of the joint, and renew it, until the wounds from whence the blood was taken are healed, then a bliftt r Ihould be put on one fide of the joint, and when that is healed, rhe other fide muft be bliftcred. (.h oling laxatives, and a ftrief antiphLgiftic treatment muft he \