PAR id" treating the other two fpccics, is, on the fivft, or at fart heft, the if con d day, to divide the part, where the pain is feated ; if this operation is longer de- ferred, a l'uppuration will come on ; in which cafe, fuppuration mould be fpeedily promoted, and as early a difeharge given to the matter as poflible. As the pain is lo confidcrablc as to occafion a fever, and fometimes convullions, the tinft. opii may be added to the iuppuiating applications, and alii) given in a draught at bed-time, and oftener if ncccffary. Vide Kids Med. Surgery, vol. ii. Beil's Surgery, veC v. Pear fan s Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and It hue's Surgery. P aRorchidium. A detention of the T'JHcla} as when t hev have not yet defeended into the lcrctum. The tcfticlcs are lbmetimcs detained in the body ; this cafe is called <rv/>Joi(bis; or concealed telltales. Sometimes the tcfticies (one or borh) arc detained ;n the groin ; ul’ually about the time of the child's birth, they defeend into the ferotum, in fornc inftances a little before birth, in others foon after. But this is' ■ very uncertain with refpeft to different perfons ; al'o in the lame perfon the two tellicies will confidcrably vary a$ to the time cf their defeeut. Sometimes one, at others both, are detained in the belly, or flick tn palling through the groin. Thele accidents happen and continue a longer or leffer time after the birth ; and in fomc inftances never pafs down into the Iere- turn. Mr. Pete takes notice of this cafe, and gives ; fevcral inftances of it in the quarto edition of his works; where he lays, that lit knows not of any particular inconvenience arilingfrt m the detention <F | a tefticle, witliin the cavity of the belly; but the lodgment of it in the groin, renders it liable to be hurt by accidental prefTure, Ike. When it is lo hurt, it may be miltaken for a different difeafe, and thereby,-1 occafion it to be very improperly treated. To which j confidcrations, lie adds, that there is no kind of dtl- • * cafe#