SAR fame caufc, mav be dilated or ruptured, which mult, confequcntly, occafion an extravafation in the cells or the fpermatic procefs, both which frequently happen in the ftrtocrli, and mult certainly give the fpermatic cord an enlarged feel; but it is not either of them that C3n be the lealt ohjedion to the operation ; t.;e fpermatic cord not being difeaicd, only enlarged, which is a circumftance worth regarding ; for when it is only enlarged, the operation may be or ule ; but, when in an enlarged, lcirrhous, painful hate, too high to be able to make a ligature fairly above the part difeaicd, the operation can be of no ufe, but is moil likely to prove fatal. Many advife to defer the operation until fuch lymptoms come on, as darting pains in the tcfticlcs, pains in the loins, See. - which, in truth, inftead cf being a proper time, is too late, the fpermatic procefs becoming a dialled, when a tefticle is become truly feirrhous, I'o as nevrf pnlfibly after to be of any ufe to the patient. l>y carrying lcirrhi too long, though at fir ft: the dilordcr || be local, a feirrhous habit will be brought on ; for j before the fpermatic procefs becomes a tie dl t d with J feirrhous tcfticl s, the patient’s habit is often found j affedted, and he is attended with colic}- pains, and t other cor.fcqucnt fymptoms. After a venereal gonorrhoea, Dr. Swediaur obfervesy that, from improper treatment, it fumetimes happens that one or both tefticles grow hard, i. c. become lcirrhous. in feme of theft inftanccs, the dilorder is accompanied with a fcnlation of a painful prcfiuie , but frequently without any pain at all. He adds, that, in theft cafes, mercury given internally, or rubbed in externally, into the pcrin.x'ura and icro- tum, twice a day, with the conllant application ot a warm p mil ice, made of the root ot atropa mandra- gori, I.inn. are often ufeful. Ailo that the ciiutt, applied internally and .externally, may be tried, with ■ pnilpect of advantage. An emetic has been lomc- 1 1 times