U RE •i fomewhat dilated from its extremity, with the point- of a fcalpel. But if fuccefs does not follow, an incifion mud be made upon the ftone, as where the urethra is covered with (kin. Soft drellings (hould be applied to the wound ; and when the cure is nearly com- - pleted, a hollow bougie, a Ihort filvcr tube, or a fmall catheter of the cladic gum, (hould be intro- duced inco the urethra, in order to preferve it of a proper lize. The word fituation, in which a done can be fixed in the urethra, is jull below the fero- tum ; for if the done either makes its way into the ferotum, or if it is neceflfary to make an opening into it with a fcalpel, fuch large collections of urine are apt to occur, as commonly occafion much didrefs. To obviate this, as i'oon as a done is difeovered in this iituation, the greated attention ought to be given, either ro get it carried farther into the urethra, or, if this cannot be effected, to pu(h it back into the perinaium by means of a dalf. If either of thefc are impracticable, and it is neccflary to extraft the done, an incifion mud be made into the urethra, by^ beginning the cut;at the under part of the ferotum, immediately to one fide of the feptum, and continu- ing it upwards till the done is didinCtly felt* when it is to be laid bare and extracted as above directed. In applying the drellings after the operation, con- , duCt them to as that the fore may heal fird at the 1 bottom ; if this is not duiy attended to, the parts be- ; low will be filled witb matter, or perhaps with urine, and thus very troublefome finules may be termed. ■ In females the urethra is Ihort, and dilates readily, fo that ftones rarely arc detained in it: but when rhey do, they generally may be turned out b^p-diing the end of a blunt probe behind them, and then pull- ing forward: or if this does not fucceed, the end of the urethra may be (lit a little way fo as to admit the introduction of a pair of forceps, by which the done may be extracted. Vide BdVs Surgery, vol. ii.