HYD Hydarthrus. A white /welling. This term is implied to luch enlargements of the joints as arc not •tended with external inflammation or dil’colouration. lidr. Bell divides them into two fpecies, viz. 'The Rhett- talic, and The Saophnlous. Thefe i'wellings may oc- iur in every joint of the body, but are more frequent a the large than in the fmaller joints. "The fynijjtoms of the fwjl Aperies, which is the mod tuple, and frequently admits of cure ; are an acuta Lain over the whole joint, and frequently in the .aponeurotic expanfion of the mufcles connected with The whole of the furrounding teguments are ..veiled, and there is often conliderablc tenfion. From Lie pain which the patient fufFers on moving the joint; e keeps it in a relaxed Hate, conflantly bent, which himately produces a ffiflf joint. If by nature or pro- ber medicines, the difeafe is not now removed, the ..veiling gradually incrcafes to twice or thrice the .atural fize of the part. The cuticular veins become arg’id and varicofe ; the limb below the levelling dc- ays, and frequently becomes cedematous; the pain icrcafcs, and is confidcrably heightened by the /armth of the bed ; ableefles form in different parts f the fwelling ; on preflfure, a fluctuation is dilcover- d in them; but independently of the fluctuation, all jch I'wellings afford a very peculiar claftic feel, yicld- lg to preflure, and rifing on the preflure being re loved. When thefe collections break, or are opened, here is generally a confidcrablc purulent dilchargc, of good confidence at firft, but foon becomes thin and ctid. This difeharge, however, does not leflen the .zc of the levelling much, it retains nearly its former imenfions. The orifices, if not kept open, foon heal, nd again break out, until the furrounding teguments re often covered with cicatrices. Before the dileale .as arrived at this Hate, the patient’s health is con- idcrably impaired ; he lofes both deep and appetite, rom the unremitted violence of the pain. 'I he ab- lurptioii