PNE formed merely by wind; their contents being of a very different nature. In wounds of the lungs, air is fometimes extravafated into the furrounding ccllu- lar fubftance, and in that way paffes into the ferotum, as it does in particular inftances over the whole body : <! and in high degrees of putrid difeafes, fo much air may be feparated from the blood, as to diftend the cellular fubftance of the ferotum, as well as of other parts; but a real pneumatocele has never, probably, exifted as a mere local affection of the ferotum. In the cafe of air diffufed into the cellular fubftance of ■< thefc^parts, in confcquence of a wound, or any other ■ ■ affection of the lungs, producing an extravafation of it, the fame method of cure will anfwer for its re- moval, that is recommended for an ffarcous fwcllings ; formed by water, viz. final! punctures with the point of a lancet, which are found to be fully fufficicnt for evacuating great quantities of air. But whenever the difeafe is induced bv fuch a great degree of putrefccncy in rhe fvftcm, as is neceflary for affeffing a reparation J of air from the blood, there can be little rcafon to , expert anv advantage to rcfult from whatever means * may be employed for relief; though when the putrid degeneracy of the humours is the caufe, a plentiful ufe of antifeptics and corroborants are indicated. Mr. Pott pofitively aiferts due pneumatocele to be a miftake. lie fays, that there is no tumour of this 1 kind, and in this fituation, in a living animal: it is, j indeed, particularly deferibed by many writers, both j ancient and modern, and laid to be a difordcr to which I ini .nt arc particularly liable: but the complaint fo j deferibed, and which nurfes, See. do ftill call a wind rupture, is not what they take it for ; neither is it produced by wind ; it is either a true inteftinal her- j rib, or a fptcies of hydrocele. There is no hernia ^ produced by mere wind; the two difeafes which in new-born children, and infants, arc taken for, and I caljcl wind ruptures arc. a tumour produced by a I fmalt J,