BUB l-fm buttocks, affifls the return of the protruded parts : iif a piece of the omentum is the contents, its return is nnot fo fpcetly ; if there is both omentum and intefline, •the latter afeends firft, and the former feels flabby, bur Toon after it alfo follows. Sometimes, after the intefliue is returned, a foft knotty fubilance remains unreduced, ;and refills all the efforts to reduction, until the patient's • veflels are emptied by bleeding, repeated purges, and a low diet; the varicous feel which this fubilance has, 'Teems as if it was the mdfentery with its veflels dif- ■ tended. In infants, the reduction is generally eafy, and as They get ftrength they are lefs fubjett to a relapfe. In the vigour of life, the return is generally more diffi- cult, and the negleft or bad management more dan- .gerous. The greatefl mifehief to be feared is a ftrifiure, •which is made by the borders of the aperture in the tendon, through which the intellinc paflfed ; and of this accident there is greater danger in the rebuff, than tin infants and valetudinary men. If no appearance of this lymptom attends a patient, the ufe of gentle means hlone arc to be admitted ; but a ftrifturc demands in- 'Rant help in evpfy circumftance. The cure is palliative or radical : the means are the fame in both kinds; the event depends cm what is not within the reach of art. The furgeon’s part is to re- duce the prolapfed bodies, and with a proper bandage to prevent their defeent; if nature lends her aid, tne SpcCture may be fu eor.traftcd as to remove our fear of tne parts returning, it is true, circumftances may at- tend, in different cafes, which may require fotnc diff'er- rncc^in the management. \idc Article Hernia. When the cafe is inch as to require an operation, the raufe of it is, an incrcafcd degree of what renders re- duction difficult, i. c. of the ftri&nre. In this cafe, .he pain hi the groin is great, as alfo in the belly ; the ; lever, naufca, and luppreflion of the hitcfiinal difr charm s.