E X F Exfoliatio. Exfoliation. One principle caufe ff an e.\-foliation of a bone is, an interruption of the ontinuity of the velfels which nourilh it. The cold- efs of the air, by contracting and drying up the cx- remities of the fmall veffcls of the bone, alfo puts a op to the circulation of the nourifhing matrer ( trough them. Mr. John Hunter obferves, titat one part of a bone is never feparated fro another y the rotting of the dead part, tor that which comes ■vay is as found as it ever was. Exfoltat. on takes l iace fooneft in bones wherein are the feweft cells, id whofc texture is the elofeft. Before any part of bone can be thrown oft' by exfoliation it mult be :ad. Btit even then, till the procel's of exfehat. n .■gins, the bone adheres as ftrongly as ever, and outd remain for years before it could be feparated ’ putrefaction alone. Bones arc compofed of two bftances, viz. a true animal matter, and an earthy ae, which arc only intermixed with each other. A ! -’ad bone aCts on the fyftetn, in the lame manner as I y other extraneous body. It ftimulatcs the adja- nt living parts.; in conlcqucnce of which, fuch a beefs is begun that mull terminate in its being rrown off. The cffeCts of this ftimulus, arc, firft, at the living adjacent bone becomes more vafcular ; circumftance which always takes place when a part s more to do than is juft fufficicnt for the fupport life. Secondly, that the earth of the living part acre it is in contaCt with the dead bone, is abforbrd , nee the bone becomes fofter, and adheres by its imal matter only. Thirdly, that the living animal rt is at laft abforbed along the furfaces of contaCt : is part of the procefs commences long before the t is finifhed. Both of them begin firft at the fur- ■o, though in their courfe they do not every where ■-e place in an equal degree at the fame time, mrthly, in proportion to the wafte made by the laft 'rt of the procefs, a fungus arifes from the living • faccj and fills up the intermediate fpacc, fo that R 3 there