be allowed the ufe of cordials with their dieuretic me- dicines. A very free ufe of-diuretics injure the kid- neys; however, when the pain and fpafms are very violent, and there is yet hope that the Jione may pals the urinary duCfs, gentle diuretics, mixed with mild anodynes, do molt fervice; for the latter relax the parts and eale the pain : and the former then more eafliy and fafely propel the jione. When gravelly matter is difeharged with the urine, and fubfides prelently after it is made, light flcel waters, either of the purging or of the diuretic kind, very fafely and effectually expel it, and ftrcngthen the kidneys ; the water lhould be continued fome weeks, and repeated at proper intervals. But if a Jione in the kidneys is fo large, that there is no hope of its palling through the ureters, the itecl waters lhould not be ufed. Purges. Of all the purging medicines, the oleum ricini is to be preferred in calculous diforders; whether tsjloue, or other caufe of inflammation, produce gra- velly fymptoms, after bleeding, emollient and lubri- cating medicines will be neceffary. To thefe ends, and to relax the paffage for the calculus to pals from the kidnies to the bladder, this oil conduces in a particular manner, beyond any other medicine : it lhould be given both by the mouth and by glylter. in want of this oil, manna with nitre, or fal catli. amar. mixed with the oil of almonds, muft be ufed; for they both empty the intcftincs, and take off all preffurc upon the ureters, they alio moderate the heat of the wxly, and lcffen the inflammation; thus they relax the {palm too, which the pain occaftons. If the ol. ricini !? takefn ,n thc fit> ^ to keep the belly lax, and the jixiv. iapon. is taken at proper intervals, mixed in any unable vehicle, their efficacy in calculous diforders wijl ■qua! that of the moll boafted noftrums ufed in thefe caks. [„ (lighter cafes, where gravel is to be carried give a mixture of foap four parts, and rhubarb one bow' Is'cafy * ‘U ^ofcs ^u^cicnt for keeping the K 3 Glyjlas.