ENC When this operation is performed for the evacuation of pus; oblerve, whenever the feat of the abfeefs is pointed out, either by a long continuance of pain in ' one point, or by maittcr being diftineruifhed between ':i two of the ribs, it is the beft direction for the place of i the incilion i again, when the matter is I’eatcd fo im- ' mediately below the fternum, that it cannot be eva- ,] cuated by an opening between two of the ribs, a piece j of that bone mu ft be removed by rite trepan. The opening j in the thorax muft not be allowed, to heal top quickly, I particularly when the (lighted fymptom of opprefiioa I I in the brealt is prefenr. To prevent the healing, a j piece of common bougie, or a lhort tube of filver, in, j troduced into the opening, and allowed to remain there ] a few hours, as often as a tpndcncy in the part to heal feems to make it necelfary, will be fufficicnt. Vide be/ft l Surgery, vol ii, Alfo, Sbar/>e’s Operations. Heijhr's Surgery, Kirkland’s Med. Surgery, voj. ii. Pear Jons 1 Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and White's Surgery. Though the eftabliflied pradticc in this operation is | to make the firft incilion in the direction of the ribs, i we Ihould, perhaps, more fairly expofe the cavity between the ribs, and be better able to regulate the fizc of the opening, if the incilion was to be made in a direflion upwards and downwards. EncaNTHis, from iv, in, and *»v9of, an angle of the eye. Tlijs diforder is an tncyfttd tumour on its inner angle. At the tirft, a tubercle appears on the caruncula lachrymalis, or on the crclccnt-likc red cuticle adjacent to it ; afterwards this tumour extends over the pupil of the eye ; when this happens, the tears continually trickle down the checks, the fight is im- paired, the countenance deformed, and the eyes in- rtamed. When this tumour is of a malignant kind, it is at- tended with pain, is of a livid hue, and often becomes cancerous. If it is manifeflly cancerous, palliatives only arc to be ufedj but if not, dilledt the whole tumouy