LAB mooth foft wood under the lip,- and ftretch it upon jt, and with a common lcatpel make an incifion from -he under border of the lip up to the fuperior part of including all the parts concerned in the filTure; nd a fmall portion of the contiguous found fktn and 'arts beneath. This effc&ed, make a fimilar incifion :n the oppofite fide, of the fame length, and termi- iating in the lame point in the upper lip. Thus, if the -peration is accurately performed, the part cut out will e of the form of an inverted v, and the deficiency will avc the appearance of a recent wound. The divided- arts mufl now be brought accurately together, and fc retained bv the twifted future. In adults, three pins ■’ill be full fufficient; but two is enough with an lfant. In puffing them, let their entrance be made- early half an inch from the edge of the fore, and irry them nearly to the bottom; then pals them Lgain outward, in a fimilar direction, and to an equal I iftance on the oppofite fide of the fiffure. Apply a iece of lint, covered with mucilage, in the courfe L‘f the cut, and a bolfter of foft lint under the heads r ad points of the pins. To fupport the mufcles of the * icek, it is generally recommended to apply the uniting mdage, but Mr. Bell fays, neither this nor any other ; but fcldom neceffary. But when the parts are with difficulty brought together, he advifes anadhefive plaf- r, fpread on leather, to be applied over each cheek, of ifficient fizc for reaching from the angle of the jaw, F ' within an inch of the pins on each fide ; and each fc iece of plafter having three firm ligatures fixed to |! tat end of it next the pins, one at each corner, and I" tother in the middle ; let an ailiftant fupport the f tecks, while the ligatures are tied, fo as to retain jj te parts in this fituation. The ligatures fhould be I ade to pals between the pins. At the end of five [' ' fix days, the pins may be withdrawn, as in that f me, at iarthefl, the parts are united, i In cafe of a double b.ue-lip, the operation mull be C c z performed