PRO Infants arc the moft frequent fubjefls of this dif- arder, by rcafon of the tendernefs of their frame nd their frequent draining, either from coftivenefs, nr the falling clown of a fharp humour on thefe parts. The (igns are evident to the fight; the infide of i he inteftinc is turned outward; the tumour is of a I'iefhy colour, fometimes it is wrinkled, at others it s linooth and Ihining, and is accompanied with an [uneafinefs, and an inefFe&ual defire to go to ftool. Sometimes this diforder is miftaken for the piles i ndeed any tumour about the anus, when of a con- jj iderable fize,. may be miftaken for the defeent of the jpart, and vice verfa, attention is therefore neceflary. Through miftake, a ligature has been applied about he prolapfcd anus, in order to extirpate it. The cure is difficult, but lefs fo in children than j; n grown people. When coftivenefs, a ftone in the i ladder, or labour, gives rile to this complaint, the Ij ure is fometimes e fie tied ; when a diarrhoea follows (t, the cure is verv difficult; if fucceedcd by the ha;- B norrhoids, the difficulty is yet greater. When acrid matter is obferved to occafion fruitlefs Btraining, lo as to force down the inner coat of the ij eftum, give a gentle dofe of rhubarb every third or | ourth day ; and in the intervals of purging, give j bforbents and ftrengtheners, fuch as chalk, in fre- fj (ticnt and l'mall defes ; if pain is confiderable, give I'mall doles of the tiwfl. opii. at proper intervals, j f the habit is coftive, give laxatives, in fuch dofes i' s will procure a ftool or two every day ; if a diarrhoea I ttends, it fhould be gradually checked ; if there are f deers in the inteftines, or if by the fharpnefs of the | tumours the mucus is abraded, the ftarch clyftcr, I vith a few drops of the tintt. opii fhould be now and F hen injefted. If a tencfmus comes on, let a glyfter I te injetted every night, or oftner, in which is the | /cnicc turpentine diifolvcd with the yolk of egg. If he prolapfcd inteftinc is fwelled, apply dilcuticnts; when