CAR t mild applications only be laid on the Tore ; and to lift the difcharge of the matter, wafh it with water $ ut if it is foetid, mix vinegar with the water. In general, a mild treatment is to be preferred. In ce flighter cafes, endeavour to excite a degree of in- animation in the adjoining found part of the difeafed me, and continue fo as that it may be the means of t parating the mortified part. This is done by making number of fmall perforations all over the furface of ce carious bone, to fuch a depth as to give the patient ry little pain, and no farther ; this operation may renewed in different parts every third day, or there- out ; thus fuppuration will take place, and a confe • aent reparation of the carious part. But when the feafe is extenfive, and goes deeper than the fecond mella of the bone, inftead of little perforations made the pin which fixes the trepan, it will be advifcable ufe- a fmall head of a trepan; this inftrument ap- ed at proper diftances over the furface of the caries, id carried juft fo deep as to produce a little uneafinefs, 11 produce the needful inflammation and fuppuration. i foon as any of the parts loofen at the edges, their al reparation may be always greatly haftened by ily infinuating below them the end of a common itula, fo as to prefs their edges a very little upwards, ter the ufe of thefe inftruments, apply to the ulcer : fame drelfings as in cafes of a Ample ulcer ; and, moderate the feetor of the caries, the dreflings may covered with lint, moiftened with a ftrong decoc- n of the cort. Peruv. & fol. jugland. The caries 1 arated, drefs, as in cafes of Ample ulcers in flefhy ts. If the caries penetrates very deep in the fub- acc of a bone, fo that a confiderable portion of its ole fubftance is affe&ed, or, as frequently happens, difeafe extends even round the bone, the fhorteft thod then is to take out at once, all the difeafed ts, either with the head of a trepan frequently ap-. •d, or by meant of a fmall fpring faw. This may- be