1 GAR without a manifetl caufe, and from a denfc, flow, inT creafing, and not very painful tumour of the incumbent parts. But among the figns of a beginning gangrene, the fudden removal of pain is fallacious, for this hap- pens in inflammations of the perioftcum, when the pcriofteum is corroded fo as to admit the matter to efcape betwixt the mufclcs ; though, in general, when pain is relieved by a rcfolution of inflammation, it goes off gradually only ; but a good refolution hardly, : if ever, happens after a violent inflammation. Again, when a gangrene is threatened, the taint is propagated : through the cellular membrane, which, by flight < caufes, is often raifed into a large tumour ; but, as all t the fyraptoms of an inflammation ceafe when a gan- ; grene is prefent, the tumour will not have the hard- : nefs and refiftance obfervable in a phlegmon, but will be flaccid, and hardly fenfible of pain. If the incum- bent part changes to a livid colour, the bone is then ' Without doubt in a mortifying ftate. Celfus judicioufly obferves, lib. viii. cap. 3, “ We ■ may foon, by means of a probe, difeover a caries of the bone; fince the probe will penetrate, lefs or more, ac- cording as the caries is fuperficial or deep.” When the probe comes to the found part of the bone, it is re- filled. Wifeman, vol. i. p. 296. edit. 5, lays, “ If the bone be bare, its corruption is eafily difeerned, though fometimes it be covered with a grumous or vifeous matter, which rubbed off, the bone appears white, brown, or black. If the white be porey, the caries may be deeper and more dangerous than if it were ; black and hard. If the bone lie fo hid as that you can- • hot feel it with your probe, yet you may judge it carious from the quantity or quality of the matter. If i Ihc bone lies near, and the flelh is lax and white, it is to be fufpefled that the bone is carious : but if the mat- I ter (link or be oily, it is a more certain flgn of rotten- hefs. Ulcers of long continuance near a bone do alfo forelhew a caries, according to Hippocrates. Alfo the 1 ~ ' • 1 • > • difficulty