D I S '■he difplaced bone; it is cafily rep'aced; and a lantiage ihould be worn till the parts recover their tone. Dtjlocation of the Foot, at the Joint of the Ankle. Tr. Hunter obfcrvcs, that when there is a luxation f the malleolus internus, there is generally a fradture : f the fibula; but that if the perfon is of a lax tabic, the ligaments may be relaxed without a frac- ture. If the anlde is luxated inwardly, the bottom cf the oot turns outward ; if it is luxated outwardly, the ■ottorn of the foot turns inward ; if forward, the -eel becomes (hotter, and the foot longer than ulual; ■f backward, the heel Teems lengthened, and the foot tortened. This kind of luxation is ufually attended '•'h violent pain, and often with other very violent virptoms ; and the difficulty of reducing the ankle is troportioned to the violence of ti e cau!e. Place the ar erst on a table or bed, and the leg. with the knee ent, muft be feeured by an adiftant or two. Then lace the foot in a pofition to relax the mufcles, and ivc it to an adiftant, who muft extend it in that di- ctation, till the prominent point of the aftragalus, leariy pafles the end of the tibia, when the bone will ip into its place, or may be eafily forced in. This one, the pat ent muft lie kept in bed, until he can in onie degree reft upon bis ankle. DiJloc.it.om of the 0.< Calcis, and other Bones of the oot. The os calcis is fbmetimes diilocated laterally, /here it is connected with the aftragalus. The af- ragalus and os calcis, arc fnmetimes luxated at their indtion with the os naviculare, and os cuboides. Tis has been miftaken for a diflocation of the ankle. : he foot, in this cafe, may be pufhed cither out- 1 3rd or inward, or forced diredtly downward. Vhcn the os calcis is difplaced, ir can only be reduced ; y fixing the leg and foot fo as to completely relax the ml'ctes, and then endeavouring to force the bone into t sfituation; in doing which, great alfiftance is dc- .ved front moderately extending the foot. P. la