H E R j.iercly. In many difeafcs of the Ikin, antimonials are requently given with advantage, but their efficacy items principally to depend upon their producing a etermination to the Ikin, and keeping up a free dif- harge of the matter of perfpiraticn; which, from i.arious caufes, is long retained on the l'urface of the I ody, and there becomes acrid, and doubtlefs is a fre- uent caufc of difordered affedtions in this part. Ac- ! ordingly, all fuch remedies are more or lcls effectual, s they arc more or lei’s powerful in keeping up a rce perfpiration. This is further evident by cbferv- ig, that a due ufe of the warm bath, is as efficacious i thefe cafes, as the ufe of antimonials and other medi- ines fuppofed to carry off morbid particles through he Ikin. In the treatment of every herpetic difor- er, tlie firft and principal circumftance to be attended o, is, that not only the parts affedted, but even the rholc l'urface of the body, be kept as clean and perfpi- ablc as poffible; to this end, the frequent ufe of warm lathing, and of frequent gentle fridlions, with clean inen cloths (in the dry forts of thefe complaints) are nngularly ferviceable. In the milder inftances, the ollowing externals generally fuffice : i. The aq. cal- ls fi. ufually is all that is required in her pa farinofus. ■ The folutions of lead in vegetable acid, i:. alio very ffcdtual; the following is a uleful general form : R Jeruf. aettat. Jfs. Acer, acerim. J iv. aq. font. dift. Ijij. m. This may be applied in the form of cata- >lalm, mixed with bread, or by means of foft rags lipped into it, and laid directly on the parts. In onie particular and more inveterate cafes, the follow - ng is fometimes to be .preferred ; viz. R Ilydrargyr. nuriat. gr. x. aq. font. dift. jfoj. m. This is very fficacious as an embrocation in any of thefe diforders. n the more obftinate inftances of this complaint, the treated care is required that perfpiratidn is duly fup- iorted, viz. warm diluent drinks frequently taken, as ‘•'ell as the ule of the warm bath. The ant. crud. Y i '