A B S more than three days; if the pain remit3,- and is fol- lowed by a pulfation in the fame place, and if ihh cl - ings come on, with a continuance of an idlcrical co- lour : foon after which a tumour is perceived in the region of the liver, and a fenfe of weight allb ; a heftive fever follows with third, and an extreme Jecblcnefs. Aretams oblerves, that a pain generally extends to the throat, and to the extremity .of the Cioutdcr, and a dry, but not very frequent cough, afflicls the patient. He farther remarks, that this diforder is fometimes miftaken for a tumor of the pe- ritonaeum, which latter is more irregular, and is not -ireumferibed by the limits of the hvpochondriuin* The confequences of an ab/irfs in this vifeus are : It is corroded and confirmed. In this cafe, after 3 tedious ifterical waiting, a flow fever, great atptiety, i lanious and fetid diarrhoea, Sec. the patient dies. . The abfcr.fi breaks inwardly, and difeharges a fa- mous pus into the belly : thus the reft of the vifeeta become putrefeent, a confumption of the whole, body h^ftily advances, an afeites follows, and terminates in death. The fame fort of pus paffes by the biliiary dudls into the inteflines, and regurgitating into the jfto- maAr, caufes various coloured and offenfive vomit- i mgs; or paffing downwards, produces a violent diar- tha-a. Acid and acefccnt fubllanccs mav palliate for * time, but the end is always fatal. _ 1 be ichorus matter palfing through the ramifiea- i °f thc vena cava to the blood, procures fymptoms - I‘lc ,T,°ft lormidablc, the functions are foon dithubed, ■ tr|d rlie difordcronly ends with life. , "-^e tumour may adhere to the peritoneum, and • form an external ubfafs, evident both to the fight j irk‘ touch. Jn this calc, a difeharge of the matter mud be procured in the following manner: Make ;• ?\n mcifion of fufheient length with a fcalptd, through ,i J.“c Lxtcrnal teguments in the moil depending part of ;i p10 tumour, and on reaciiing the abfeefs, open it with the