D I S .adfing ; but perhaps this is not neceffary. l*or tnc Tm of this inrtrument, vide his Syftcm of Surgery, W. vi. pi. lxxix. fig. i. The bell kind of emollients, (t animal fats, in preference to vegetable oils. 'When the diftortion of a limb proceeds from a bone nag bent; if it is not of long duration, and eipe- lally in childhood, conftant preffure, gradually in- ceafed, on the convex fide of the limb, will often :move it. This diftortion is molt frequently in the xrS, and affedts the dire&ion of the feet and ankles, "the-bones of the leg arc bent outward, the foot is •ned inward, and vice verfa, the foot turned unvard, when the leg is bent inward. Writers live denominated pcrlons affedted in this laft way . a/p/ ; and vari when the feet are turned inward. The belt method of applying the preffure, is by nx- -g a firm fplint of iron in the fhoe, on the concave .de of the leg. The fplint ihotild reft againft the errefponding condyle of the femur, and the other ud of it upon the foot; by this mode, with one or I wo broad ftraps paffed round both the leg and the "lint, an eafv preffure is alfo made on the oppofitc de of the leg. The preffure may be mcreafed,-by rawing the ftraps tighter from time to time. \ ide >M’s Surgery, vol. vi. . Distortions of tht Sfnne. The fpinc may be diltoittd rtitwardly, inwardly, and laterally. In iome cafes, Wve meet with it in all thefe directions at the fame ime, and in the fame perfon. This fometimes antes rom external violence, but it is more frequently a ymptom of a weaklV, delicate conft.tution. In t ide ales, independant of the deformity, the health is ometimcs injured, by the abdominal and thoracic v,f- tera being compreffed. They may occur in all ages, out more frequently about puberty, and oftencr in Kiris than boys. The effefts they produce arc ob- AH ft irved before/ the caufeTs rufpefted for there is fel- dom much pairt in the part immediately attested. im mucu imiu m r““ . . , When diftortion in the fpinc occurs in infancy, ne p z patient