pmatidh only. Vide Mr. Poll's Remarks on the Ne- ceffity, See." of Amputation in certain Cafes, See. T u A c H £ o T O mI a , ‘Tracheotomy. It is tlie mak- ing of an opening into the trachea. This operation i's alfo called inoncb lomy, and laryngotomv. This ope- ration is made by incifion, or by punfture, betwixt the third and fourth ring of the trachea; or if this place cannot be chofcn, the opening may be made a little lower. When the lkin is cut through, a fmall incifion may be made into the wind-pipe, and then a fliort but crooked canula may be fixed there for the air to pal's through. Vide Sb.vfu's Operations. Be!, s Surgery, vol.ii. and IVr tie's Surgery. Mr. Sheldon oblervcs, that it is very happy, both for the lurgeon and the patient, that this operation is very rarely required. When it is attempted, he advifes to perforate below the thyriod gland ; to cut cautioufly between the two fterno raaftoid mufclcs longitudinally, carefully avoiding to wound the vein of tire thyroid gland, as it will bleed plentifully. Care muft alfo be taken, that no blood is permitted to fail into the larynx, as it will undoubtedly fuffbcntC the patient. Laftly, when the trochar is introduced, let it not touch the back part of the larynx, bccaufc of the irritability of its membrane, ft is a difficult operation, but it is heft performed on thole who have thin long necks. Trachoma, from watrough, fn Cullens Nofology it i» a'variety of the offitbatmia t.rji. A roughnef’s of the eye-lids, particularly their internal parts. This roughnefs is from a fi ft of (cabs, which differ much in their appearances in different inftanccs. Thefe complaints arc attended wrh a weight and heavinefs in the eye, a (welling in the eve-lids, a p m and itching, a heat and rcdnels in the Corners, and in the conjunftiva ; a \ ifeid humour, mixed with pun- gent tears flowing from the ulcers, which when very ftrongly fo, elofesihe eye-lids together. Ir this com- plaint continues long in old people, the lower eye-lid grows