F I S tom oF the fifttda begins to be conglntinatcd; then drel's with fome foft digeftivc, in which is the balf. Peruv. or balf. capivi. This method failing, the ma- nual operation mull be attempted, but, indeed, it is not to be depended on, except when the opening can be made to the bottom of the ulcer. The incilion is made with mod eafe to the patient with a knife ; but whatever inftrument is uled, as much ikin and flclh is to be cut as is thought iafe and fufficient to ani'wer the end ; for when the bottoms of ff.ulas arc laid open, the corrupted matter is not only difeharged, but medicines arc allb more commodionfly applied. If, upon making the incifion, a large quantity of blood is difeharged, fill the wound with dry lint, and proceed afterwards as is ufual in recent wounds. Mr. Bell, in his Treatife on Ulcers, advifes almoft univerfally to Ihun the practice of laying the different figufes open from one end to the other, then cutting out ail the hardened parts, fo to convert the whole into one common ulcer. This method he owns will frequently effedt a cure ; bur, independent of the great pain, and very large unfecmly cicatrix which it occalion',1 it cannot, in every cafe, with fafety be put in prac-j: ticc: c. g. when finufes run far up the redlum, :t| cannot ever be conveniently done ; they pcnetratel deep, and run below either large blood-vefleIs, ten-] dons, or nerves; it would never in tilde cafe be advifcablc to have rccourfc to fuch treatment The intention of cure, in every cafe of finus, is i produce a coalefcencc of its fidcs, fo as to deflrov an vacuity that may have occurred : the moll effeflur. means of accomplifhing which, is, tft, To make depending orifice for a free exit to the matter; an<$ then, idly, by a gentle irritation, to induce, on th« internal furface of the finus, a flight degree of inflami mation, which, by experience, is known to be that Hate mod favourable to the produftion of adhefiol between any two parts; fo that a firm union of till a fidw