D I S Complete difiocations of the vertebra, perhaps, have .iever occurred, even with a f radiu rc, without aim oft nftant death. In cafes of partial diflocatjons, the pa- rents have lived fome time, and in forpe inftances a omplcte cure has been obtained- Thcfe diflopariotis ere diftingui filed, by the body being diftorted, by exa- mination with the fingers, and luch fymptoms as arifo, rom a compreifion of the fpinal marrow, particularly a aralyfis of that part of the body below the injured) art, and cither a total fuppreihon of urine, or an in-, oluntary palling of both faces and urine. The verre- rae arc ufually forced directly forward, or in fome dc- .ree to the right or left fidp. When they are luxated' nrward, the body mud be gradually and llowly bent- ver a calk, or any other round body of fufficient fizq; : the bone is replaced, raife the body immediately, if ot, the fame procefs muft be repeated. This treat-, aent has fometimes fucceeded. If the dillocated bone inclines to the right or left, te body, in attempting its reduction, muft not only be :nt forward, but fome what towards the affe&ed fide, i Os Sacrum. When this is dillocated, the body muft : bent forward, in the way already mentioned, and. adeavour to replace it by external prelfure. I Os Coccygis, may be forced internally by a blow, and ternally by laborious parturition. In cither cafe, a olent pain is felt over the region of the loins, parti- larly about the junction of this bone with the os fa- una. When the luxation is inward, with the pain, ere is a lenfation of a tumour, or fome orher hard dy, compreffing the under part of the refhim : there fometimes a ten elm.us, difficulty in palling the feces, d in fome cafes there has been a fuppreHion of urine, a introducing the finger at the anus, the difplaced rtion of bone is difeovered. If t|iq luxation is outward, it may be replaced by clfure with the thumb ; if inward, dip the fore-fin- r in oil, introduce it as high as poiliblc up the anus. O z and