I N F I intervals, r.ncl -while the glyfters pafs downwards, •here i hope, if the patient furvives three days, and the pain abates fuddeniy, with chilnefs and'ihiver- ing, a fupjuiration is forming, which in about tdur- reen days will hreal:; then if the patient becomes tabid, ttic only help in a palliative one tor a ihort time. When at! jjafles upward*', the patient is very 'real:, the pulfc fluttering, the countenance pale, the breath oiTeniivc, then danger is very great. Clammy fwcar.*, a f’mali intermitting pulfc, foetid or bllhc hook, n total abatement of pain, are figrr- of mor- tification being begun, and tluii death Ikon follows. On the iirft attack, bleed freely, notwithflanding rlic hr. a briefs or the pulfc, and teeming weaknrk, tor the pillfc becomes fuller, and the proftration of !frir._th goes off as the injiammjii&t aV-mcs. Repeat ■ he bleeding at /hurt interval?, until the pu’.l'e becomes loft. Acids ih'ul.l be joined with every draught of the patient’!; common drink. 1 he antimonial powder fliould be given in fuch dofes as the ftomach will caitly retain, and a falinc draught fhould be repeated every hour or two. If acrimony is a fufperted caufe. bleed, git c a doTc of the t il carh.amar. with as much of the antiinon. tarta- r\7.. as will cattle ir to operate upward and downward ; rlicn give the c-cta miftura c. Ph. bond, and the de- coction of calcined hartfliorn for common drink. Cooling laxative glvflcrs fhonld be given every two <t thr,c liottrs, until a ftool is procured. It (hould boobferved, that though the fal marin. is the belt purgative in general for rlyltc-rs, it is improper if any information is fufpcflcd in the bowels. Hut to- bacco frooitk may be injefted, and repeated at Ihort i'uersr.ls, until the deli red effect is obtained. Purges are contra-indicated by the contraflion of the inflamed part; though when all other means fail of «’ht; ining a p iflar c , purge*, with opiates, mud be ‘r ed ; the I..1 carh. anur. is th. bell, of which two uur.tf*