E M P part; when the lungs arc wounded, a trouble!'me cough attends, and the matter expedlorated is mixed with blood ; fometimes air elcapes from the lungs into the cavity of the breaft, and not being difcharged out- wardly through the pleura, &c. it cccafitms great diffi- culty of breathing, anxiety, a fenfc of iaffocation, ftupor, a livid colour in the face, and if relief is not fpecdily obtained, the patient dies. The air detained in any part of the cellular membrane may pioduct a mortification there. When thefe kind of tumours happen in putrid dis- orders, fomentations may be applied to them, made , with equal pans of fharp vinegar and rectified Spirit of ; wine ; but when a wound is the caule, if the breath- ing is quick and laborious, bleed, and repeat the ope- ration as often as this Symptom renders it neccffary. Punctures, or rather finalt incifions, may be made into the cellular membrane, with a lancet, or in diffe- rent parts of the body ; the air will thus lie excluded, if gentle preffure is alfo made on the tumour : when the air is thus evacuated, a comprcfs may be dipped in vinegar, and allied over the part where the wound is fuppofe’d to be ; a tight bandage may fccure it, and the patient fliould be direfited to lie on the injured fide, to prevent a frelh afflux of air. Nitre, and pcdforal cinulfions, may be given to prevent internal fuppura-l tions. When the air is detained in the cavity of thcl breaft, Mr. Hewfon propofes to difeharge it by a fmalM Opening made with a knife on the fore-part of th« cheff, which, if on the right-fide, muff be between! ti c fifth and fixth ribs, becaufe there the integument are thin ; but if on the left-fide, the opening muff bi betwixt the feventh and eighth, or betwixt the eighth and ninth ribs, the better to avoid wounding the peri cirdium. Perhaps the punctures neccffary to let cu the air, fhould be m-ide lb as to form a valve of th teguments. It may be done by a trocar, and the tub left in the orifice to give a free palfagc to the air. N id Lone