A B S ill ^ 3 ]b i'j. t the beginning of the fuppuration there are unequal llhiverings, which incrcafe and remit; all'o a "fever, with an exacerbation of the fymptoms in the evening. 'When th.is accident follows an inflammation of the ‘ bowels, it begins in about four days after the attack of t the inflammation, at which time a /hivering comes on, twitich extends through the whole body, and an ob- ' tule pain, with a fenfe of weight, is perceived by the part affefted. After the pus is quite formed, the 1 fymptoms abate, and the pain ncaply ceafes, till the ttime of breaking approaches, and then the pain is re- newed, and fometim.es the belly is violently ouftipated ; after the difeharge, a quantity of aqueous pus is thrown ■Out by (fool. Sec Aetius Tctrabib. tii. form. i. cap. 4a. . 'In about fourteen days the pus makes its way info the cavity of the belly, and produces inconveniences flmi- lar to thofc arifmg from a difeharge of the like kind . :from the liver : or, palling into the inteftincs, it runs off by (fool. In this,cafe, entire membranes are dif- charged, and a confumpfion often follows. . If, on the firft attack the means employed againft an inflammation of the intelfines fail, little more is to be :<Ione than to fupply the patient with emollient and gently detergent broths, until by the continuance of the excretions the dyfcntcric Ifatc is arrived, when the procedure is as in a dyfentery. Mufgrave, in treating of the irregular gout, ob- ferves, that fometimes a gouty dyfentery degene- fates into an abfafs in the bowels. Celfus ob- ferves, that large al-f;ejfc! in thefe parts are not fel- j [he conlequer.ee of fevers and pains, cl’pceiallv 1 0/ pains in th'c belly. Gouty gpjcrjfii are formed iii , the afophagus, {foiiiach, and guts, and that without p i||V:nS any ieafon to fufpedl them, till they break. „ «f>wt\er, as foon as the difcliargc is made, the patient mould avoid all cxercifc. To dilute and to deterge, • kt the following be uftd for common drink : ft, Hord. \ Pen*;, o fa. rad. ccnfolid. min. § i. cocj. in aq. puritfim.