BUB r *hich gives more room, and ldfens the hazard of the iteftines getting round your knife, and being wounded y 'r> which might cafv happen in dividing it upwards rft. The fore-finger introduced into it is the beft of ill direftors, and upon that finger a narrow bladed Iurved knife, with a bold probe point, will be the only iftrument neceffary to finifh the operation with. With nis knife on the finger, the fac fliould be divided, firft -Ownward to the bottom of the ferotum, then upward "> the ring. Upon the firft divifionof the hernial fac, fluid is difeharged, differing in quantity, colour, &c. n different patients. In opening the fac, great care is equired to evade wounding its content?. The fac eing fairly divided up to the ring, the inteftinc pufhes it, and feemsto be more in quantity th3n it did while uk confinement. At this juncture, if the quantity : the protruded inteftine is not very great, try to re- ucc it, by firft pulling down a little more, for thus its ilk being leflened, it perhaps may pafs without divid- g the ring. It this does not fucceed, you muft di' de the ring; which may he done, by introducing your ii!, between it and the ieteftinc, and cutting down- wards upon it, or with a diredlor upwards, with an ob- quity inwards. If the contents of the fac are found, iiticdiately reduce them, remembering to bend the ugh upon the pelvis, and to return the iaft protruded arts firft. Slight adhefions may be feparated with the iger, or fnipped with the fcilfars. When one part of ■ie gut adheres fo firmly to another, as to render the paration difficult, it is better to return the whole in h If ate into the abdomen. When the adhtfions are > ■'tween the gut and the fac, or the gut anti omentum, ji (mail portion of either the fac, or omentum, may be u at away. J A 'When a part of the omentum is mortified, or thick- .« . an<j collected into lumps, it may be cut awav with ■1 pair of thin edged fcilfars, and if a vcflfel of any fizc Wounded, pafs a ligature round it, without including if any