178 The Boston Cook Book. oyster or scallop shells ; season, and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake till the crumbs are brown. Place the shells on small plates, and serve one to each person. Large scallop shells may be obtained at the fish market, then cleaned and used several times. Tin, granite, or silver shells may also be used. Oysters and Mushrooms in Crusts. — Bake Parker-House- roll dough in round pans, or as small round biscuit placed some distance apart. When cold, cut a slice from the top of each, and remove the soft inside without breaking through the crust. Fill with the following mixture : — Parboil half a pint of oysters. Strain, and save the liquor. Cut the oysters fine, and mix with them half a can of chopped mushrooms. Mix the oyster liquor and mush- room juice with enough cream to make one pint in all. Pour this hot liquid slowly on one tahlespoonfal of Imtter and three of flour cooked, together. Season highh' with salt^ pepper, lemon juice^ and cayenne. Pour this into the crusts, and serve at once. This dish is acceptable to those who cannot eat oysters in puff-paste patties. Pigs in Blankets^ or Huitres au Lit. — Season large 03'S- ters with salt and pepper. Cut very thin slices of fat hacon ; wrap each oyster in a slice of bacon, and fasten with a wooden skewer. Put in a hot omelet pan, and cook just long enough to crisp the bacon. Serve on small pieces of delicate toast. Fried Oysters. —Wash the 03'sters, drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper^ and let them stand twenty minutes. Roll first in seasoned crumbs., then dip in beaten egg mixed with one tablespoonful of milk ; roll in crumbs again, and frv one minute in smoking hot lard. Drain on paper, and garnish with chopped or sliced pickle^ or chowchow. Serve with cold slaw or celery salad. Fried oysters are much better, and spatter less in frying, if parboiled shghtly and drained before rolling in the crumbs. When only a few are wanted, and those espe- cially nice, select the large oysters, roll them in fine crumbs^ then in Mayonnaise dressing^ then in crumbs again, and fry.