The Boston Cook Book. 42 Health-Food Flour, — A still better method of convert- ing wheat into flour, and one which is indorsed b}^ leading scientists and physicians, has been recently introduced by the Health Food Company of New York. Only the choicest kinds of wheat are used. The outer husk is first removed by moistening the grain, and subjecting it to a gentle rub- bing by what is termed the "attrition process." This softens the wood}^ fibre of the outer bran, which is easily removed by sifting, but does not affect the hard gluten coats. The grains are dried, then pulverized into various grades hj a compressed cold-air blast, which dashes the grains into atoms with tremendous force. This is called whole-wheat flour, the name indicating that the whole of the gluten, or nutritive part of the flour, is retained. It is not sifted like other flours, but pulverized into all the varieties of crushed loheat^ coarse granulated and Jine granulated wheat; each variety, even the finest flour, containing all that is valuable as food. Bread made with this flour has been found, after repeated trial, to be sweet and agreeable to the taste, light and spong}' in texture, with none of the objec- tionable features of Graham bread, and answering fully all the demands of perfect nutrition. Cheap inferior Graham flour, made of poor flour mixed with bran, is worse than no food at all. Any flour con- taining much of the indigestible bran causes irritation of the digestive organs ; all the food is hurried through the alimentary canal before digestion is complete or all the nutriment can be absorbed, and thus is neither economical nor healthful. Fine flour containing the most gluten is the most nutritious, because it is all digested, and the loss of albuminous material can be supplied from other sources. The Arhngton, the Franklin, and some other brands of whole-wheat flour, are highly indorsed by those famihar with them. The Tests of Good Flour. The first requisite in making good bread is to use good flour. Good flour should not be pure white in color, but