The Boston Cook Book, Life is that form of energy in creation that results in de- velopment from within the object. The energy may be purely physical, as in plants; or it may involve mental and moral considerations, as in animals. There are some essential distinctions between the various forms of organic life. Animals grow proportionally in all direc- tions, and, at a certain time of life, attain their average size. Plants grow upwards and downwards from a collet only, and continue to grow through a term of existence. Animals feed upon organic matter, consume oxygen from the air, and throw off carbonic acid; plants feed upon inorganic matter, consume carbonic acid, and restore oxygen to the air. Living plants or vegetables are, with few exceptions, fixed to the spot of earth from which they spring, and receive their nourishment from external sources. It is furnished them by the soil, air, light, and heat by which they are surrounded; and they are every moment receiving all that is necessary for their sustenance. If one of these essential conditions be withdrawn, death follows. Living animals have the power of locomotion^ and, being obliged to wander, they are not always directly in contact with their sources of nourishment. They have, there- fore, a storehouse in which they lay up at intervals a supply of material. The possession of this stomach, or storehouse, characterizes all animal beings. The changes that occur in animal life are more rapid and variable than those in vegetable life. Not being, like vegeta- bles, always in connection with their food, animals need some monitor to warn them when to seek it. This is provided them in the appetite^ or the sensations of hunger and thirst. There is also a pleasure in the regulated indulgence of these sensations, w^hich never fails to insure attention to their demands. The vegetable kingdom is the original source of all organic matter. All our food is derived directly from the vegetable w^orld, or indirectly through animals which have been nourished on vegetable products. The ox and sheep, which are consumed in the form of beef and mutton, have not fed on flesh, but on grass, hay, oats, and other grains. It is only under exposure to the sun's rays that plants will grow. Hence to its influence we must refer the production of food in the first instance, and therefore the sustenance of all life. Life and growth in human beings are dependent upon two conditions,—motion and warmth. Motion. — Our bodies are constantly in motion. The heart