246 The Boston Cook Booh the hind legs backward. Rub all over witli oyitter^ salt^ peppe7^^ and flour. Put it into a pan with a little water ; the oven should not be very hot at first, as it should be thorough 1}^ warmed through before browning. Baste very often, and at first use melted butter to make the skin tender and soft. Be careful not to let it burn. Bake two and a half or three hours. Arrange in a bed of parsley and celery leaves, with a " tuft of cauliflower in the mouth and a garland of parsley round the neck." Serve with apple sauce or pickles. In carving, cut off the head, then the hams and shoulders; split down the back, and separate the ribs. Boast Porh, —The chine, or loin, and the spare ribs are the best pieces for roasting. Rub well with pepper^ or sage^ salt^ and fiour, and bake twenty minutes for each pound. Baste often, and do not have the oven as hot as for other meat. Roast pork is more wholesome when eaten cold. Pork Chops or Steaks, — If pork chops are to be broiled, the}^ should be cut very thin, salted,, and peppered^ wrapped in greased paper, and broiled until thoroughly cooked, — from ten to fifteen minutes. To fry or saute them, cook them in a hot frying-pan in a little hot lard or salt pork fat. Cook slowly after they are brown, and be careful not to burn them. If a gravy be desired, pour off nearly all the fat left in the frying-pan, add two tahlespoonfuls of flour^ and when brown add hot water until of the desired consist- ency. Season witli salt,, pepper, vinegar^ and chopped pickles. Breakfast Bacon, — Cut off the rind and smoked part; slice very thin ; cook in a frying-pan till the fat is tried out and the bacon is dry and crisp, or fry in deep fat. Drain on paper, and serve alone or as a garnish for beefsteak. F^ned Salt Pork, — Cut fat salt pork in thin slices ; pour hot water over them ; drain, and fry in a pan until crisp ; or roll in egg and crumbs^ and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with salt fish or fried mush or baked potatoes.