140 The Boston Cook Booh. Clean the chicken, and cut it at the joints into nice pieces for serving. Pat it in the soup kettle with the veal bones, or any pieces of veal 3^ou ma}^ have. Cover with four quarts of cold water. Slice the onions, and fry them brown in the beef drippings. Put the onions, cloves, pep- percorns, and apples in the kettle. Mix the curry powder, salt, and sugar to a smooth paste with a little of the water ; add it to the soup. Let the soup simmer until the chicken is tender. Remove the chicken and cut into small pieces. Put the bones back in the kettle, and simmer another hour. Strain the soup, remove the fat, and put the liquor on to boil again, with the pieces of chicken and three or four tablespoonfuls of boiled rice. When the chicken is hot, serve at once. Scotch Broth. % cup pearl barley. 2 pounds neck of mutton. 2 quarts cold water. cup each of carrot, turnip, on- ion, and celery. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 tablespoonf ul flour. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 saltspoonful white pepper. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. Pick over, and soak the barley over night or several hours in cold water. Wipe the meat with a clean wet cloth. Eemove the fat and skin. Scrape the meat from the bones and cut it into half-inch dice. Put the bones on to boil in one pint of cold water, and the meat in three pints of cold water. Let the latter boil quicklj', and skim carefully just as it begins to boil. When the scum comes up white, add the barley and skim again. Cut the vege- tables into quarter-inch dice, fry them five minutes in one tablespoonful of the butter, and add them to the meat. Simmer three or four hours, or until the meat and barley are tender. Strain the water in which the bones have sim- mered. Cook one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan with one tablespoonful of flour. When smooth, add the strained water gradually, and stir into the broth. Add the salt, pepper, and parsley. Simmer ten minutes, and serve without straining. Manj^ people have a prejudice