374 The Boston Cook Book. cakes made. Cut through the crust with a sharp pointed knife, then break apart. Sponge Cake, (Miss Josselyn.) — Beat the yolks of three eggs; add one cup of fine granulated sugar^ one tablespoonful of lemon juice^ and one tahlespoonful of cold tcater^ or a lump of ice melted in the lemon juice to make two tablespoonfuls of liquid. Add the whites^ beaten stiff, and one cup of pastry flour, Lady Fingers and Sponge Drops. — Four eggs^ half a cup of powdered sugar^ half a saltspoonful of salt^ one teaspoonful of flavoring^ and three quarters of a cup of pastry flour. See general directions for mixing sponge cakes. Pour the mixture into a pastry bag, and press through it into shape, about three inches long and not quite one inch wide. Or drop by the spoonful on a but- tered pan, and you have Sponge Drops. Sprinkle pow- dered sugar over them, and bake twelve or sixteen minutes in a very slow oven. Miss Ward^s Sponge Cake. — Break ten eggs into a bowl; add one pound of powdered sugarand beat to- gether for half an hour without stopping. Add half a pound of flour., the grated rind and juice of one lemon., and a vnneglassful of wine. Bake in deep pans one hour ; slowly at first, then quicken the fire the last half-hour. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before baking. Angel Cake. -—One cup of flour., measured after one sifting, and then mixed with one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and sifted four times. Beat the %€hites of eleven eggs., with a wire beater or perforated spoon, until stiff and flaky. Add one cup and a half of fine granulated sugar, and beat again ; add one teaspoonful of vanilla or almond^ then mix in the flour quickly and lightly. Line the bottom and funnel of a cake pan with paper not greased, pour in the mixture, and bake about forty minutes. When done, loosen the cake around the edge, and turn out at once. Some persons have been more successful with this cake by mixing the sugar with the flour and cream of tartar, and adding all at once to the beaten egg.