455 The Boston Cook Book. Salts and other Mineral Matters. — The chief purpose of min- eral ingredients is to replenish certain tissues, and aid in the transferrence and absorption of the combustible nutrients, as a scaffolding aids in the construction of a building. Chloride of sodium, or common salt, is essential to the life of the higher animals. It exists in all parts of the body. It is more abundant in the blood than any other inorganic ingredient except water; but it is an active poisonous irritant if taken in excess, causing diseases of the mucous membranes, as in catarrh, and stiffening of the muscles, as in rheumatism. We take it as a natural ingredient in many kinds of food, and as a condiment to increase the relish of many others. The desire for salt is instinctive. There are people who do not use salt in food, but it is probable that they obtain sufficient sodium and chlorine in the brackish water they drink; or it may be, their habits of life render less salt necessary. Salt must be added plentifully to all vegetable food. The bad effects of a salt-meat diet can be counteracted by the use of lemon juice and fresh green vegetables, which are rich in potash salts. Salt taken with our food supplies two substances. Its chlo- rine supplies the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, that helps digest our food; and soda, which is an element of the bile, — a fluid which must be added to the dissolved or softened food before the nourishment can be extracted from it. People would very soon become ill if deprived of salt. A person requires from one fourth to half an ounce of salt daily. The attractive flavor which is developed by cooking and adding salt to our food excites the secretion of saliva and gastric juice, and therefore helps digestion. The Dutch used to condemn criminals to a diet of unsalted food. They suffered great physical torture, which soon ended in death. Salt is one of the most abundant of all minerals. It is ob- tained from springs by evaporation, and from natural mines It is readily soluble in hot or cold water. It is used for packing and preserving meats, as it prevents putrefaction by absorbing water from the flesh. The other mineral ingredients needed in the system are com- binations of lime, soda, potash, magnesia, sulphur, phosphorus, and iron. Phosphorus, lime, and magnesia are found in meat, fish, the cereals, and potatoes. Potash is found in meat, fish, milk, vegetables, and the dry seeds and fleshy parts of fruits; iron, in flesh, vegetables, and nearly all food, in very minute quantities.