The Boston Cook Book. 124 tasteless, and utterly useless as food. It needs the addi- tion of many other materials to make it palatable even, and it is cheaper to get the fibrine we need from meat cooked in other ways, directions for which will be given under Boiling Meats and Stews. Therefore do not liesi- tate, as a matter of economy, to throw away this useless meat. When fresh meat is bought expressl}' for stock, select a piece from the shin or lower part of the round of beef or veal. This has bone with marrow, a large proportion of gelatine, more or less osmazome, according to the amount of flesh, and costs less than other parts. In mutton, pieces from the neck and forequarter are the best. Fowls are better than chickens. With this fresh meat may be used the bones and trimmings from steak or chops, and the flank ends of roasting pieces, which yield more nutriment if added to the stock pot before being cooked. Add also any remnants of roasted or broiled meat, bone, fat, gristle, anything except mutton fat. In families where large roasts of beef and poultry are often used, there should be mate- rial enough for stock, without bu^^ing new meat, except for the nicest of clear soups, which the French call Consomme. The proportions of bone and meat should be about equal by weight. When ready to begin the stock, wipe the fresh meat with a clean cloth wet in cold water. Never put the meat in a pan of cold water to soak. It takes out all the juices that you wish to save. Wipe hefore cutting. The inside is clean. But rinse the cloth and scrub the outside thoroughly. Cut away the parts that are tainted or dis- colored by rusty meat-hooks, etc. Examine all the odds and ends of cooked meat, and remove any smoked or burned parts from ham or broiled meat, also the stuffing and skin from roast poultry, if you wish to have the stock clear. Scrape the meat clean from the bones and cut into inch pieces. Break or saw the bones as small as you con- veniently can. Remove the marrow (a soft, fatty sub- stance, which you will find in the hollow of the bones) and put it in the soup kettle to keep the bones from sticking.