21 I The Boston Cook Book. and gristly parts of flesh, the shin, and the sinewj^ parts about the joints, and in the nutritive parts of bones. It may be dissolved by soaking in cold water, and then boil- ing gentl}^ for several hours. The solution hardens when cold. Gelatine hardens in a dry heat, and such parts of meat as contain it in abundance should be stewed, rather than roasted or broiled. Fat of meat is contained, a good measure of it, in the adipose tissue of almost all flesh which is used as food. It is liquefied by heat, and resolved into various acid and acrid bodies. It is a warmth-giver, and is therefore most appropriately used in cold seasons and climates. The juice of the flesh consists of water, a small propor- tion of albumen, and a mixture of other compounds. It is not the blood, for it still exists after the blood has been withdrawn. It may be obtained b}^ chopping lean meat fine, putting it in a closel}^ covered jar without water, and heating it gradually. If heated above 160°, the albumi- nous matters in it harden and turn brown. The solid residue, consisting of fibres, tissue, etc., is white, tasteless, and inodorous. This separated juice is strong!}^ acid, while the blood is always alkaline. It contains many sub- stances which are very valuable as food, and the savory principle, or ozmazome^ which gives flavor to the meat and causes it to difler in different animals. Meat should always be cooked in such a manner as to retain the largest proportion of this juice. The juice is drawn out into the brine in salting, and this renders salt meat less nutritious. The juice when the water has been separated from it b}' evaporation, is termed extract of meat. The flesh of all young animals is more tender, but not so nutritious as that of maturer animals. Nearly all parts of an animal may be used as food. Meat is in season all the year; but certain kinds are better at stated times. Pork is good only in autumn and winter; veal^ in the spring and summer; venison^ in the winter ; fowls^ in autumn and winter ; lamh^ in the summer and fall; mutton and beef at any time.