The Boston Cook Book, 426 The following dishes may also be used : broiled squab, venison, chicken, chop, steak, salmon, chicken panada, boiled halibut, roast beef, mutton, cream toast, eggs, and o^^sters (except when especiallj^ forbidden by the physi- cian), sweetbreads, baked potatoes, asparagus, onions, macaroni, custards, Charlotte Russe, snow pudding, ice- cream, sherbet, blanc-mange. Bavarian cream, sponge cake, simple puddings, stewed fruits, and many others, — receipts for which will be found as indicated in the table of lessons in the Nurse's Course. Broiling for the Itwalid {Broiled Steak or Venison). — Wipe with a clean wet cloth. Grease the gridiron with a bit of the fat. Broil over a clear fire, turning as often as you can count ten. Cook four minutes if the steak be about one inch thick ; not longer, as further cooking dries up the juices and destroys some of the nutritive qualities. Be careful to serve on a hot platter, and season with salt^ and with pepper and butter if approved. Birds, chicken breasts, fish, and chops are better when seasoned, and wrapped in buttered paper, and then broiled, as this pre- vents them from burning or becoming too dry. Birds, fish, and chops are better, and more conveniently eaten, if boned before broiling. Broiled Steak^ N'o. 2. — Broil half a pound of round steak and one slice of tenderloin. With a meat or lemon squeezer squeeze the juice from the round over the tender- loin. Season, and serve hot. Chicken Panada, — One cup of cold roasted or boiled chicken^ pounded to a paste. Add half a cup of stale bread crumbs, and enough boiling chicken liquor to make it a thick gruel. Salt to taste. Boil one minute, and serve hot. When the chicken has been roasted, boil the bones to obtain the liquor. Chicken Custard. — Scald together one cup of stro7ig chicken stock and one cup of cream. Pour it over the well-beaten yolks of three eggs., and cook in a double boiler till slightly thickened. Salt to taste, and serve cool in custard cups.