The Boston Cook Book, 429 milk or water^ and stir it into one cup of boiling milk. Boil five minutes. Add a little salt. This is excellent for teething children. If they be troubled with constipation, use one quarter part corn meal and three quarters wheat flour, boil as above, and stir some of the grated lump into boiling cream and water^ using one part cream to six parts vKtter. For an infant the preparation should be thin enough to be taken from a bottle. Flour, after being cooked in this wa}^ and then reduced to a finely divided form, loses its adhesive quality ; and the particles are more easily separated and digested. Children and growing persons need the most nutritious food, and plent}^ of it at regular intervals ; but nothing stimulating nor exciting. The}^ should be given, and com- pelled to take, suflScient time for eating; and should be taught to masticate everything slowly and thoroughly. They should eat milk ; whole-wheat and cornmeal bread ; oatmeal, farina, and hominy mush ; plenty of ripe fruit raw, and stewed fruit sweetened; beef, mutton, veni- son, and poultr}^, either roasted, broiled, or boiled ; baked potatoes, and asparagus ; green peas, beans, and corn, if ever}^ hull be first broken or cut; eggs, omelets, and cus- tards ; plain sponge cake; ice-cream, if not too hard and cold, and eaten slowly; simple fruit and bread puddings ; fruit, tapioca, and farina; plain gingerbread and molasses cookies ; whole-wheat cookies and wafers. Children should avoid hot bread and griddle-cakes; fried meats or cakes or doughnuts; highly seasoned food; rich gravies ; rich pastry and cake ; pickles, pre- serves, all stimulants such as tea or coflTee ; raisins, un- less cooked three hours and stoned ; sago, arrowroot, and other purely starchy foods, except w^hen combined with milk, eggs, or fruit, and eaten with sugar and cream ; and especiall}" veal and pork. Veal is an immature meat, lack- ing in nourishment; and of the free use of pork, apart from the question of the trichinae, a majority of physi- cians believe that it is largely responsible for the forms of