370 The Boston Cook Book, the fire is too hot and cannot be checked sufficient!}'. The oven should be less hot than for bread. If too hot, leave the oven door open for ten minutes before putting in the cake, then watch it, and protect it by putting over it a covering of paper, or a pan on the grate above. Do not attempt to make cake unless you can have entire control of the fire. Thin cakes require a hotter oven than those baked in thick loaves. If the oven be not hot enough at first, or be cooled too suddenly daring the baking, the cake will not be light. Cakes with molasses in them burn more quickly than others. Thin cakes should bake from fifteen to twenty minutes, thicker cakes from thirty to fort}^ minutes, very thick loaves about an hour, and fruit cake from two to three hours. Whichever kind you are baking, divide the time required into quarters. During the first quarter the heating is not manifested in appearance except by the rising; during the second the cake should continue to rise and begin to brown; then should become all over a rich golden brown ; and in the last quarter settle a httle, brown in the cracks, and shrink from the pan. Be careful not to take it out too soon. If necessary to move it, do it YQvy gently, and never move it when it has risen to the full height, but is not browned or fixed in its shape. If cake brown before rising, the oven is too hot. When it rises more in the centre, cracks open, and staj's up, it is too stiff with flour. It should rise first on the edges, then in the middle, crack slightlj^ settle to a level again, when the cracks usually come together. Nothing is more sug- gestive of bakeshop cake, or inferior quality in material, than a loaf with an upper surface having sharp edges, then hollows, and a peaked centre, as if the inside of the cake had boiled up and run out over the top. Line jom cake tins with paper, to prevent burning the bottom and edges and to aid in removing the cake from the pans. Lay the paper over the outside of the pan, and crease it round the edge of the bottom. Allow it large enough to come above the top of the pan. Fold in the