460 The Boston Cook Book. the pancreatic fluid, being alkaline, resolves the fat into an emulsion. This completes the digestion, then the fats are ab- sorbed and received into the general circulation. Having a strong affinity for oxygen, these fatty particles in the venous blood, when they come in contact with the oxygen of the air, burn, and heat is evolved. The power of fat in maintaining heat and activity is two and a half times that of starch. Oils which are used as food are fixed oils. Volatile oils are found in many condiments and perfumes. Volatile oils can be distilled, or changed to vapor, and recondensed into their origi- nal form; they leave no permanent stain on paper. Fixed or greasy oils cannot be distilled; before changing to vapor they recombine into new compounds. Gum, Mucilage, Pectose, and Cellulose. These are combustible compounds, but are neither starchy, saccharine, nor oily. Gum is found in apple and plum trees. Gum arable is from a species of acacia, and is soluble. Muci- lage is found in onions, quinces, and flaxseed. It forms a jelly with water, but does not dissolve like gum arable. Pectose is found in many roots, like the turnip; also in the pear and peach. When boiled with water it changes to a vegetable jelly, called pectine. Currants, pears, peaches, plums, contain pectine, and this is what gives firmness to the preserves made from them. Cellulose is the woody fibre of stalks of grain, the membrane which envelops the grains, husks, and skin of seeds, rinds, cores, and stones of fruits. It is the main and almost the sole constituent of linen, and of the paper which is made from linen. NITROGENOUS FOODS. The second division of the Combustible Compounds is called nitrogenous^ or flesh-forming foods. Nitrogen is the flesh-form- ing element common to all foods. It enters largely into the composition of the body, forming sixteen per cent of the animal tissue. A liberal supply is necessary to form and repair tissue. Although the atmosphere is four fifths nitro- gen, we get no supply from that source. It must be sup- plied in a state of combination, not as an element, from such compounds as have been produced under the influence of life. We require organic nitrogenous matter, and not pure nitrogen. This is sometimes derived from vegetable sources, but is most