466 The Boston Cook Book, PROPER PROTOiRTION OF FOOD. I These different kinds of food, loater, salts, sugar, starch, fat, and albumen, must be combined in our diet; for a simple sub- stance which fulfils only one of the purposes required in our food will not support life. A man cannot live on water or salt, yet he would soon die without them. A diet composed exclu- sively of fats, starch, or sugar is equally incapable of supporting life. The albuminous foods, though they are considered the most nutritious, must be combined with the others to produce the desired result. Milk is the only substance prepared by nature expressly as an article of food. Seeds grow, and produce plants and fruits after their kind; but milk is prepared as the natural food of the young of all mammalia. A baby fed on milk develops in every part; therefore milk must supply every requisite for the growth of the young body, and the proportions in woman's milk may be taken as the standard for human food. Milk analyzed is found to contain water, salt, fat, sugar, and caseine, — the five ele- ments of food. It has enough of flesh-producing elements to restore the daily waste, and enough heat-giving elements to feed the oxygen in breathing. But when the teeth are formed, the child's system needs a greater proportion of some elements than are supplied by the milk, and other foods are gradually added to the diet. Eggs also contain all the necessary elements; a diet of seven eggs per day furnishes all the nutrition a person needs. But the elements in eggs are too highly condensed, and are not properly proportioned for a continuous diet. Many articles of food do not contain all these elements, and it is very important to proportion our food rightly, so that one kind will supply what another lacks. A certain bulk is also necessary in our food to stimulate a thorough action of the diges- tive fluids. If the quantity be not sufficient to distend the stomach, so that the churning motion of the muscular coats can affect every part of the food, the digestion is imperfect. Dys- pepsia is often caused by lack of sufficient quantity of food, and by weakness of the muscles of the stomach. If this requisite quantity be wholly nutritious or highly condensed food, capable of entire absorption, the effect is too stimulating, and serious disorders of the alimentary canal are the result. To remedy this, it is necessary to have a certain amount of innutritions