The Boston Cook Book. 487 flour; a teaspoonful or half a teaspoonful of soda and cream of tartar; a cup of flour; or milk; or half a cup of butter? How do you grease a bread pan; a cake pan lined with paper; a grid- dle; a gem pan; a waffle kon? How do you make a smooth flour thickening, or a thin batter? How do you peel potatoes and pare apples to keep them from discoloring? How should potatoes be boiled; rice; macaroni; vegetables, and cereals? What are the proportions of salt and water in boiling? How do you make tea, coffee, and chocolate? Why should water be used as soon as boiled? How should milk be boiled? How do you make a white sauce; drawn butter; brown gravy? Why is meat for soup put into cold water? How do you make a stew? How do you keep pea soup from separating? How do you broil meat and fish? How do you toast bread? How do you boil eggs? How do you make boiled custard; yeast; water bread? How much yeast and flour is used to one quart of milk? How many brickloaf pans of bread will six quarts of flour make? What is the order of mixing in breakfast cakes; bread; cake? How do you know when bread is done; steak; cake; oysters? What is the proper method of frying? What is the test for frying? How should fried articles be drained? How much soda and cream of tartar for one quart of flour? Why does cold water settle coffee? Why does raw potato clarify fat? Why does milk boil more quickly than water? Why not put water in the pan with roast meat? Why do we beat eggs for cake, but not as much for custards? Why is heavy bread unwholesome? Why should starchy food be well cooked ? What is food? What is nitrogenous food? What is car- bonaceous food? What is the use of water as food? What are the minerals we take as food? Explain assimilation. What foods produce the most heat? What foods produce the most strength? Why does the Laplander eat fat? Why do the Chinese eat rice? Why do we not eat fat in summer? AVhat is the best food for laboring men; for students; for children? W^hat kinds of food contain all the necessary elements? What are saccharine foods? What are farinaceous foods? What is meat? What are the best kinds? When are they in season? What is the difference between red and white-blooded fish? What is cream? Why is whey desirable as food in sickness? What is gluten; starch? Explain the digestion of starchy foods. What chemical changes take place in bread made with yeast? Why do we beat eggs? What is cooking soda, and what is its use? What is cream of tartar, and why do we use it?