The Boston Cook Book. 325 lemon juice. Brown slightly, and cut while hot, but serve cold. Apple Pie, — Cut sour apples in quarters, remove the cores and skins, and cut each quarter in two pieces lengthwise. Fill the plate, putting the pieces of apple round the edge in regular order, and piling sligiitly in the middle. They will cook as quickly as when sliced, though many are unwilling to believe it. When the apples are dry, add a little water. Cover with crust without wet- ting the edges, and bake about half an hour. When done, boil thi^ee heaping tahlespoonfuls of sugar and 07ie of wate7 five minutes. Add the grated rind of one quarter of a lemon,, or one tablespoonful of lemon juice. When the pie is done, remove to an earthen plate, pour this syrup through a cut in the top, or raise the upper crust and pour it over the fruit, or simply sprinkle with sugar and bits of butter. To sweeten before baking, sprinkle half a cup of sugar,, mixed with a little spice or grated lemon rind over the apple. Bind the edge of the crusts with a narrow strip of wet cloth, to keep in the S3^rup. Or wet the edge of the lower crust, sprinkle with flour, put on a rim, wet and flour that also ; fill with fruit, sweeten, put on the upper crust, and press the edges firmly together. Rhubarb Pie, —Peel the rhubarb, cut into inch pieces, pour boiling water over it, and let it stand ten minutes. Drain, fill the plate, sprinkle thickly with one cup of sugar^ dot with bits of butter^ cover with a crust, and bake. Squash Pie, — One cup and a half of stewed and sifted squash, not watery, but dry and meal}^, one cup of boiling milk^ half a cup of sugar^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ one saltspoonful of ci7inamon^ and one egg beaten slightl}^ Mix in the order given. Line a plate with paste, put on a rim, and fill w^ith the squash. Pumpkin pies are made in the same wa3\ Custard Pie, — Beat three eggs slightly, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar,, one saltspoonful of salt^ and one saltspoonful of nutmeg^ if liked. Pour on three cups of