The Boston Cook Book. 467 food, which furnishes the bulk required, and gives all parts of the digestive apparatus their proper amount of work to perform. 'Many persons argue in favor of a vegetable diet, as we can obtain from vegetables all the necessary elements. There have been many cases known where people lived to an extreme age who used exclusively a vegetable diet, and others who lived equally as long upon animal food. But the general rule is, that we find the highest degree of bodily and mental vigor only among those who make use of a mixed diet. One of the strong- est physiological arguments in favor of this rule is found in the structure and conformation of the teeth and alimentary canal. Part of the teeth are of the carnivorous, or flesh-eating kind, and part of the herbivorous, or vegetable-eating kind. The alimentary canal is equally well adapted to the digestion of ani- mal or vegetable food, or an admixture of both. The proper proportion, by weight, is one third of animal, and two thirds of vegetable food. " Nature has given us an unerring guide to a proper choice of diet. An unperverted appetite is the voice of the physical sys- tem making known its needs, and it may always be trusted to indicate the food necessary to the preservation of health. But as the voice of nature is often unheeded, it is necessary to exer- cise intelligence in selecting our food and adapting it to the circumstances of life. By a proper choice we can often coun- teract the effects of a violation of nature's laws." ADAPTATION OF FOOD TO CLIMATE, AGE, OCCU- PATION, AND STATE OF HEALTH. In examining the foods adopted by different nations and classes of people, we find that many choose instinctively the kind best adapted to their individual needs. The climate, occu- pation, and water influence their choice. Climate. — Animal food is better for cold than for hot cli- mates. We breathe more rapidly, take in more oxygen in cold weather, and the internal fire burns up more of the food. We exercise more, and this causes more rapid wearing out of muscle and flesh. Fat meat is not digested easily unless exercise be taken freely; more oxygen must be mixed with it to produce heat than is required for sugar and starch. In summer, when we exercise less, the waste is less, and we need less warmth-