The Boston Cook Booh 307 fully, and stir with a fork, never with a spoon, as that mashes the kernels. Cook twelve, fifteen, or twenty min- utes, according to the age of the rice, and add more boiling water if needed. Test the grains often, and the moment they are soft, and before the starch begins to dissolve and cloud the water, pour into a squash strainer. Drain, and place the rice — still in the strainer — in a pan in the hot closet or on the back of the stove. Stir it before serving, to let the steam escape and the kernels become dxy. Be careful not to cook the rice enough to burst the grains, as then nothing can prevent them from sticking together. Steamed Mice. — Pour two cups of boiling water on one cup of well-washed rice ; add half a teaspoonful of salt. Cook in the double boiler thirty minutes, or till soft. Re- move the cover, stir with a fork to let the steam escape, and dry off the rice. Rice will usually absorb twice its bulk of water; but when cooked in milk or stock a little more moisture will be required. Some of the nitrogenous and mineral constituents, of which rice has but a small amount, are lost in the boiling water, and unless the water be used for soup, to boil rice is a wasteful process. Steaming is a much easier method, and is more economical. Many dishes may be prepared from combinations of rice and various seasoning materials. Savory Rice. — Steam one scant cup of rice and two cups of rich white or brown stock highly seasoned with salt^ cayenne., chopped parsley., and ground herbs. Stir in one tablespoonfid of butter with a fork, just before serving. N'o, 2. — Fry one tablespoonfid of chopped onion in one heaping tablespoonful of butter until yellow; add one scant cup of uncooked rice., and stir until slightly colored; then add one pint of chicken stock., and pour all into the double boiler, and ^eam thirty minutes. Salmon Rice. — Use half stock and half strained toma- toes ; season highly with curry^ and cook like Savorj^Rice. Rice with Cheese. — Steam the rice after either of the preceding receipts, and put it in a shallow dish in layers,