229 The Boston Cook Book. An Old-fashioned Boiled Dinner. {Mrs. Poor.) Notwithstanding that this dish has fallen into ill-repute with many people, it ma^ be prepared so as to be both pal- atable and nutritious for those who exercise freely. It is more suitable for cold seasons. The most healthful and economical wa}^, though perhaps not the old-fashioned wa}^, is to boil the beef the day before. ^our pounds of corned heef^ two or three beets., a small cab- hage^ two small carrots., one small white French turnip.^ six or eight potatoes of uniform size^ and one small crooked-neck squash. Wash and soak the corned beef in cold water, and put it on to boil in fresh cold water ; skim, and simmer until ten- der, but not long enough for it to fall to pieces. Let it cool in the liquor in w^hich it was boiled. Put it into a flat shallow dish, cover it with a board, and press it. Remove all the fat from the meat liquor, and save it to clarify for shortening. Save the meat liquor, but do not let it stand in an iron kettle or tin pan. Boil the beets the day before, also, and cover them with vinegar. The next day prepare the vegetables. Wash them all, scrape the carrots, and cut the cabbage into quarters ; pare the turnip and squash, and cut into three-quarter-inch slices, and pare the potatoes. Put the meat liquor on to boil about tw^o hours before dinner time ; when boiling, put in the carrots, afterward the cabbage and turnip, and half an hour before dinner add the squash and potatoes. When tender, take the vegetables up carefully; drain the water from the cabbage hj pressing it in a colander. Slice the carrots. Put the cold meat in the centre of a large dish, and serve the carrots, turnips, and potatoes round the edge, with the squash, cabbage, and pickled beets in separate dishes ; or serve each vegetable in a dish b}^ itself. This may all be done the same day if the meat be put on to boil ver}^ early, removed as soon as tender, the fat taken off, and the vegetables added to the boiling meat liquor, beginning with those which require the longest time to