198 The Boston Cook Booh. Do not use an egg till it has been laid ten hours, as the white does not become set or thick till then, and cannot be beaten stiff. Eggs for poaching or boiling are best when thirty-six hours old. Albumen, when heated, becomes a dense solid ; if mixed and heated with a liquid, it hardens and entangles in its meshes any solids or impurities in the liquid, and rises to the surface with them as scum, or pre- cipitates them. It is thus the white of egg clears soups, jellies, and coffee. Strong acids, corrosive sublimate, and creosote will also coagulate albumen; and there- fore, if any of these poisons be taken into the system, the white of egg, swallowed quickly, will combine with the poison and protect the stomach. The shells of newly laid eggs are almost full; but as the shells are porous, on exposure to the air, the water inside evaporates, and the eggs grow hghter, while air rushes in to fill the place of the water, and causes the nitrogenous elements to decompose, and the eggs soon spoil. This explains wh}^ a good egg is heavy, and will sink in water; and wh}- a stale egg is lighter, has a rattling or gurgling sound, and floats in the water. Any- thing which will fill up the pores and thus exclude the air, when applied to perfectlj' fresh eggs, will preserve them indefinitely; a coating of liquid fat or gum, or a packing in bran or salt, with the small end downward, is effectual. Eggs should be kept in a cool, dark place, and handled carefully, as an}^ rough motion may cause the white and yolk to become mixed, hy rupturing the membrane which separates them, and then the egg spoils quickly. Never buy eggs about the freshness of which you have an}^ doubt, not even in winter. One can easily judge which is the better economy, — to pay twenty-five or thirty cents a dozen, and find none of them full and fresh, and perhaps half of them really rotten ; or to pay fifty cents, and obtain them freshl}^ laid, —not merely fresh from the countr}^, — and all sound and good. Eggs with a dark shell are richer and have larger yolks. Eggs are of better