The Boston Cook Book, 253 one at a time, with the fingers. Or take them all out at once, by putting the foot of the fowl against the casing of a door, then shut the door tightly and pull on the leg. The tendons w^ill come out with the foot; but if once cut thQj cannot, be removed. The drumstick of a roast chicken or turkey is greatly improved by removing the tendons, which alwaj^s become hard and bony in baking. There is a special advantage in cutting the leg below the joint, as the ends of the bones afford more length for tying, and after roasting this is easily broken off, leaving a clean, un- burned joint for the table. Cut out the oil bag in the tail. It is better to dress a fowl for a fricassee first. Then you learn the position of the internal organs, and can tell bet- ter how to remove them when dressing" for roasting, as with the whole fowl you v^^ork by feeling and not by sight. To Gut up a Fowl for a Fricassee. — Cut through the loose skin between the legs and body, bend the leg over, and cut off at the joint; then cut off the w4ngs. Make an incision in the skin near the vent, and cut the membrane lying between the breastbone and the tail, down to the backbone, on each side. Then jou have the intestines, gizzard, livft*, and heart exposed, and can easil}^ remove them. Do not forget the kidneys, lying in the hollow of the backbone, and the lungs in the ribs. Cut the ribs through the cartilage, separate the collar bone, and break the backbone just below the ribs. Divide at the joints in the wings and legs; separate the side bones from the back, and remove the bone from the breast. Never chop the bones, but divide smoothly at the joints. To Dress a Fowl for Boasting. — Make an incision near the vent; insert two fingers, loosen the fat from the skin, and separate the membranes lying close to tke ho6.y. Keep the fingers up close to the breastbone, until you can reach in be^^ond the liver and heart, and loosen on either side down toward the back. The gall bladder, lies under the lobe of the liver on the left side, and if the fingers be kept up, and ever}'thing loosened before drawing out, there will be no danger of its breaking. The kidneys and