The Boston Cook Booh 9 simmers when the bubbles all collapse beneath the surface, and the steam is condensed to water again, or at 185째. Water boils when the bubbles rise to the surface, and the steam is thrown off, as at 212째. When this boiling-point is reached, the heat escapes with the steam ; and all the fire in the world cannot make the water any hotter, so long as the steam escapes. If the fire be very fierce, so that these bubbles are formed and expelled rapidh^, and the water boils over, the water is no hotter; it only evaporates or boils away faster, and can onl}^ be made hotter by confin- ing the steam, which in ordinar}^ kettles is impossible, owing to the enormous expansive force of the steam. With a few exceptions it is a waste of fuel, time, and ma- terial to keep the water boiling at such a galloping rate that the cover has to be lifted to prevent boiling over. A kettle should never be quite full, as the water ex- pands in heating, and, in boiling over, makes needless work and injures the stove. Water will boil more quickly in a kettle with a rough surface than in one with a smooth surface, as the water adheres to a smooth surface with greater force, and this force or attraction must be over- come before boiling takes place. Small, clean gravel is sometimes kept in a smooth kettle to facilitate the boihng. Water boils at a higher temperature when there is sugar, or salt, or an^'thing in it to increase its density. It takes longer for it to boil; but it is hotter, when that point is reached. No one who has been burned by boiling syrup ever doubted this fact. Fresh water boils at 212째 ; salt water, at 224째. If we put salt with the water in the lower part of a double boiler, a greater degree of heat is obtained by which to cook the articles in the top. Water boils at a lower temperature, that is, more quickly, when the pressure of the air upon the water is diminished. Before a rain the pressure of the air is lessened, because the air when filled with vapor is lighter. Observing house- keepers have often noticed how quickl}^ things burn at such a time, and foretell a rain by the rapidity with which water evaporates.