The Boston Cook Book. 226 into a stew. The flavor obtained bj roasting adds much to the stew; for this reason, when the meat has not been cooked, brown it in a little fat before stewing. The bones should never be chopped and splintered, but sawed care- fully, and all the fine, crumbly pieces removed before cooking. Other good pieces for stews are two or three pounds from the middle cut of the shin^ or the flank end of a large sirloin roast, or the upper part of the chuck rib. Any part that has bone and fat, as well as lean, either cooked or uncooked, makes the best-flavored stv^^w. The fat and bones may be removed before serving, and such pieces are much better than dry, lean meat. Remove the meat from the bones, and put them with part of the fat into the stewpan. Cut the meat into small pieces, and if not previously cooked, dredge with salt^ pepper, smii flour, and brown all over in salt pork fat or drippings. Put it into the stewpan. Cut two onions^ one small white turnip^ and half a small carrot (if you like the flavor) into half-inch dice. Cook them slightly in the dripping, and add them to the stew. Add boiling ivater enough to cover, and sim- mer two or three hours, or till the meat is tender. Remove the bones, and skim off the fat. While the meat is cook- ing pare six or eight small potatoes^ and soak them in cold water. When the meat is tender, pour boiling water over them, and boil five minutes to take out the acrid taste. Drain, and add them to the stew. Add salt and pepper to taste. When dumplings are to be served with the stew, add them when the potatoes are nearly done. The liquor should come up just even with the potatoes, that the durnp- plings may rest on them. Cover closely to keep in the steam, and cook ten minutes without lifting the cover. Take out the dumplings, put the meat and i)otatoes in the centre of a hot platter, and the dumplings round the edge. Remove the fat, and add more salt and pepper^ if needed, to the broth ; and if not thick enough, add a little flour wet smooth in cold vmfer^ and boil five minutes. Add one cup of strained tomato and 07ie teaspoonful of chopped parsley.