The Boston Cook Book. 486 MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS FOB EXAMINATION. [No attempt at classification has been made in preparing these questions, as every teacher can testify that questions in daily life do not come in regular order.] How should a fire be built? What is the general plan upon which every stove is constructed? How should the heat be regulated in the oven? What articles are baked on the lower part of the oven; on the grate? How is it in a set range? What is the difference between a stove and a range; between a set range and a portable range? Where is the hottest place in the oven; on the top of the stove? How do you keep a steady fire to boil anything that must be kept at the same temperature several hours? What kind of a fire should you have for broiling? How do you blacken a stove? How do you clean a stove while hot? What precautions should be taken while frying in deep fat ? How do you remove fat if spilled on a hot stove? How should meat be basted? How may you keep supplied with hot water ? How do you wash glasses; silverware; greasy dishes; egg-beaters; bread boards and bowls? How do you clean frying-pans; kettles; iron pans? What are the best kinds of ware for general cooking? How do you clean tin and granite ware? What is to be done if anything burns on while boiling? How do you clean a refrigerator? How do you sharpen a knife? What is the best knife for paring; for scraping; for turning when frying? How do you keep a sink and dishpan clean? What is a set of " hollow ware," usually sold with a stove? What is a frying-pan; Scotch bowl; griddle; gridiron; broiler; stewpan; saucepan; digester; braising-pan ; gem pan; muffin pan? What is the difference between Washington, jelly-cake, squash, and mince pie plates? What is a gravy strainer; puree strainer; squash strainer; colander? What is the difference between a bread and meat-carving knife? What is a double boiler? When is an iron spoon not to be used, or a steel knife? What is the best spoon for cake-making; for basting meat; for stirring acid mixtures? How do you measure a tablespoonful of