i6o The Boston Cook Book. All varieties of fish need an accompaniment of starch}^ foods, like bread and potatoes ; and white fish need beside to be cooked with butter or fat to make them desirable as food. The juices of fish, shell-fish particular^, are of an alkaline nature ; and this renders lemon juice or vinegar a desirable condiment as a neutralizing agency. The flesh of good, fresh fish is firm and hard^ and will rise at once when pressed with the finger. If-the eyes be dull and sunken, the gills pale, and the fiesh flabb}^ or soft, the fish is not fresh. Fish should be cleaned as soon as possible, in strongly salted water. They should be washed (not soaked) by wiping with a cloth wet in salt water. Then wrap them in a cloth which is sprinkled with salt, and put them in a cool place. If put in the ice-chest, they will taint the butter and milk. Put ice around them, if necessary ; but do not let them touch the ice, as fresh water and ice will soften them. When once they lose their hard, firm con- sistency, they are considered unfit to eat by those who know what good fish really are. Frozen fish should be thawed in cold water. Fresh- water fish having a muddy taste or smell are improved by soaking in salt and water. Salt fish should be soaked in fresh water, with the shin side up^ to draw out the salt, and should be eaten only occasionally^, for the reason before stated. To Clean a Fish. — If the fish have scales, remove them before opening. Scrape with a small, sharp knife from the tail to the head; hold the knife flat and slanting, resting it on the fish, that the scales ma}^ be taken upon the knife; scrape slowly, that the scales may not fl}^ over everything near, and rinse the knife often in cold water. When the fish is to be served whole^ do not remove the head and tail. Smelts and small fish served whole are opened under the gills, and the contents squeezed out by pressing from the middle with the thumb and finger. Large fish are split open from the gills half-way down the lower