The Boston Cook Book, 70 ard. The following are some of the best varieties and shapes:— For Finger Eolls^ make a dough hy the rule for Milk Bread, No. 2, and when risen and read}- to shape, divide the half reserved for rolls into twelve pieces. Make each piece into a smooth ball as if for biscuit, then roll it be- tween the palms, or with the palm of one hand on the board, into a long roll about the size of the second finger. Eoll with buttered hands or with as little flour as possible. Place them close together in a long, shallow pan. Let them rise to the top of the pan, and bake in a very hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes. To make a Oleft Roll^ make the dough into smooth balls, then with a floured knife-handle press through the centre but not quite through on the ends. Or make them round, and place them some distance apart on the pan, and when ready to bake, make a deep cut through the middle. Make another cut at right angles with the first and you have a Gi^oss Roll. Parker House Rolls are made after the receipt for Milk Bread with sponge, and when well risen and read}^ to shape, roll the dough on the board as you would pastrj^, and, if wanted richer, spread a generous tablespoonful of soft- ened butter all over it. Fold the dough, and roll out again until nearly half an inch thick. Lift the rolled dough from the board and let it shrink back all it will, and be sure it is of uniform thickness before cutting, or the rolls will lose their shape. Cut with a round or oval cutter; press the thumb across the middle and fold over like a turnover, letting the edges come together. As the}^ rise they will open a little, and, if folded only half-way over, the}^ are liable to open too far. Spread a bit of soft butter the size of a pea on the edge before folding it, if 3'ou like the crusty inside which that gives. Or roll the dough thinner, and put two rounds together with a thin spread- ing of butter between ; these are called Twin Rolls. To make PocJcet-hook or Letter Rolls^ roll the dough in a rectangular shape one fourth of an inch thick, and cut it in