The Boston Cook Booh 4o8 distress the invalid. Two small beds, that the patient may find relief in change, are desirable ; or, if possible, procure an invalid's bed, which admits of many changes of position and the airing and changing of the bed with no accompanying fatigue. Cleanliness, — It is of the first importance that the bed linen and clothing of the patient should be kept fresh by frequent changes, and thoroughly dried and aired. Be careful to supply the needed warmth by light but not over- abundant clothing. The patient should be bathed freely ; avoid a chill by giving a sponge bath with alcohol and warm water, exposing only a part of the body at a time to the air, and rub till perfectly dry. Wet a cotton-flannel bag, made with the nap side out, in cold water, wring it slightly, and tie it over the broom to use in sweeping. Be careful to wash it every time it is used. It is quite essential that the floor of a sick-room should be kept clean. Eemove all dust with a damp cloth. The cleansing, drying, or airing of all objects should be done outside of the sick-room. Keep the room, the bed, the patient, and everything about yourself absolutely neat and clean. Conversation, —In extreme sickness let no unnecessary word be spoken in a sick-room, and no needless, noisy, nor abrupt movements be made. Let the voice be calm and clear, neither loud nor whispering. In speaking to the patient do so in the way that requires the least eflbrt in response, and never consult him about his food. Avoid all discussions of the disease, the medicine, and any excit- ing topic either with or before him. Do not excite the patient by needless conversation with the doctor outside of the sick-room. Never whisper, even when the patient is asleep or in delirium, because a whisper is more penetrat- ing than a low full tone. During convalescence do not weary with conversation ; let it alwa}'s be bright and cheer- ful, and, as far as possible, of things outside the sick-room. Cultivate the power of talking to, rather than with, a sick person.