424 The Boston Cook Book. from the scraps of meat left b}^ adding one cup of cold water to the meat, and letting it stand two hours. Then strain and heat the liquid ; or the scraps of meat ma}^ be put in the soup-kettle. Economical Beef Tea. — Cut one pound of juicy rump steak into small pieces, and add one cup of cold water. Let it stand in a covered bowl several hours. When ready to serve, squeeze the meat and put it into another bowl. Strain the juice already obtained, add salt to taste, and heat it just enough to be palatable, but not enough to curdle it. Serve at once, while hot. If it be heated over the fire, stir constantly, and take it off the moment it looks thick and is hot; or heat it carefully over hot water. Add another cup of cold water to the scraps of meat, and soak again. Often the third cup of tea may be obtained from the same meat. This is excellent for hard-working people to take, in times of great exhaustion, before a hearty meal. It is one of the best and most easily prepared forms of soup or meat tea. Dr, MitchelVs Beef Tea. — One pound of lean heef cut fine; add one pint of cold water and five drops of muri- atic acid. Put into a glass jar. Place the jar in a pan of water at 110°, and keep it at that temperature for two hours. Then strain through thick muslin until the meat is dry, or press the juice out by squeezing. The acid makes the tea agreeable to a patient with fever, and also aids in drawing out the juices of the meat. Baw Beef Sandwiches. — Scrape fine a small piece of fresh, juicy, tender, raw beef. Season highly with salt and pepper. Spread it on thin slices of bread, put them together like a sandwich, and cut into small squares or diamonds. This will often tempt a patient who could not otherwise take raw meat. The sandwiches are sometimes made more palatable by toasting them slightly. Eggnog. — Beat the yolk of one egg; add one table- spoonful of sugar^ and beat to a cream. Add one table- spoonful of wine or brandy^ and half a cup of milk. Beat the white of the egg to a froth, and stir in lightly. Omit