440 The Boston Cook Booh sleeping. A supper of cold bread and cake or pie is neither appetizing nor satisfying for those who have been hard at work through the dsij. Something warm or hearty, sometliing for a relish," every man craves for supper. Toast, brewis, warm tea-cakes, cocoa, oatmeal, warmed-over potatoes, cold meat, made dishes, eggs, oysters, etc., are far better than the common supper of sweets. Every one may have clean, if not fine, table linen. An under covering of cotton flannel or felt made to fit the table is desirable, as it prevents noise, and a linen cloth may be laid over it more smoothly than over the bare table. Thin tablecloths remain fresh longer if stiffened slightly with ver}^ thin starch, but heavy damask requires no stif- fening. Keep the cloths in a drawer large enough to hold them without much folding. Avoid making many folds in ironing, and in handling them fold always in the creases. In laying the cloth, place the centre of it in the centre of the table, and have the folds straight with the edges of the table. Crease the cloth round the edge of the table, that it may drape smoothly. Lay a plate, right side up, for each person. If the table be long, place one plate at each end, and those at the sides opposite each other. Place the napkin at the left of the plate, and at dinner place a piece of bread between the folds of the napkin. Place the knives, butter plate, and tumbler at the right of each plate, the forks at the left, and the soup and dessert spoons in front, the handles toward the right hand, — the number of each depending upon the number of courses. The fruit dish or flowers should occupy the centre of the table; the salt and pepper, butter, jell}', pickles, etc., at the corners. Place the various dishes on the table in regular order, straight with the table, or, if at an angle, let there be some uniformity, never helter-skelter. The cups, plates, and dishes for hot food should be heated in hot water or in a warming-oven. Use a spoon to place ice in delicate glasses or pitchers ; or put in the water first, and then the ice, to avoid breaking.