224 Boston Cook Book. with hutter or Maitre d'Hotel sauce. The flank end of the sirloin is better when cooked in this manner than when broiled with the other part of the steak. Hamburgh Steak, — Pound a slice of round steak enough to break the fibre. Fry two or three onions^ minced fine, in hutter until slightly browned. Spread the onions over the meat, fold the ends of the meat together, and pound again, to keep the onions in the middle. Broil two or three minutes. Spread with butter^ salt, and pepper. Braised Beef. Four to six pounds of beef from the lower part of the round or face of the rump. Trim, and rub well with salt^ pepper^ and flour. Cut two small onions into dice, and fry them until light brown in salt pork fat or drippings. Skim them out into a braising-pan or large granite pan; then brown the meat all over, adding more fat if needed. Put the meat into the pan on skewers, to keep it from stick- ing, with the onions around^ not under, the meat. Add one quart of boiling water and one tablespoonful of mixed herbs,, which should be tied in a small piece of strainer cloth. Cover closely, putting a brick on the cover to keep it down, and cook in a moderate oven four hours, basting every twenty minutes. Turn over after two hours ; add more water as it evaporates, so as to have one pint left for grav}^ When tender, take up the meat, remove the fat and bag of herbs from the gravy ; add more salt and pep- per,, and if desired add lemon juice,, tomato,, or mushrooms; thicken with two tahlespoonfuls of flour^ wet in a little cold water. Cook ten minutes, and pour the gravy over the meat. Garnish with potato balls^ boiled onions,, or with veg- etables \ la Jardiniere, Horseradish sauce maj^ be served with the meat. This is a very nutritious, palatable, and convenient way of cooking the cheaper parts of beef, a cushion of veal, tongues, fowls, liver, and some other kinds of meat. The meat is equally good cold or hot; there is no waste if care be taken not to let it become hard and dry