The Boston Cook Book. so haps twice a week, or for those hving at a distance from the stores, they are inconvenient, expensive, and waste- ful. They have almost entirely taken the place of baker's yeast. As to which is best of the many varieties of home-made yeast, who shall decide when housekeepers disagree? Every good cook thinks her wsij the best. They are all good that make good bread; the only special advantage of one over another being the greater ease in making or the length of time it will keep good. People w^ho are inclined to shirk think it a deal of trouble to make yeast of any kind ; but there are none so independent as those who make their own yeast. The simplest form of liquid yeast is made with flour, salt, and boiling hop water. To this msiny add potatoes and a little sugar, and some add ginger. Chemists say that the potato is the best form of starch for the growth of yeast. Potato 3^east rises more rapidly, and keeps longer without souring, than flour yeast; bread made from it is sweet, light, and does not dry quickly. As to the comparative merits of grated raw potato or boiled potato, those who have used them both ways with equally good results think the grated potato has the advantage of being made in much less time. The really essential points are that the water shall be hoiling^ so that all the cells of the flour or potato may be ruptured. The salt and sugar assist in the fermentation, and the hops and ginger serve to prevent the yeast from souring by checking the fermentation before all the sugar is converted into alcohol; they also give it an agreeably pungent taste, if not used in too large quantities. Old l)otatoes are better than new for 3^east, because the}^ con- tain more sugar. Porcelain or granite kettles for boiling the hops and potatoes, and earthen bowls and wooden spoons for mixing, are best, as iron and tin cause the yeast to turn dark-colored. The yeast for starting must be fresh and lively, and never added till the boiling mixture has become lukewarm,