The Boston Cook Book, ;8 answer ; but if a larger quantity be needed, tliere is nothing better than a double broiler with wires about a third of an inch apart. Place the slices evenly on one side of the broiler, being careful not to put in more than can be equally exposed to the fire ; close the broiler and hold it firmly, that the slices may not slip ; move it gently over the fire for one or two minutes ; then turn it over, that all the moisture may be drawn out; hold it nearer to the coals, and color it a delicate golden-brown. Serve at once in a toast rack or piled lightly, that it may not lose its crisp- ness. Butter before serving, or send it dry to the table. Bread properly dried and toasted is changed from the nature of dough, which alwa^'s has a tendency to sour on the stomach, into pure wheat farina. It is not so scorched as to turn the butter into oil, but absorbs the butter; and butter and farina, being easily separated, are quickly acted upon b}' the gastric fluid. Many persons prefer toast that is soft inside, but it should never be served to sick people in that manner. It is better to have it dry, and then mois- tened with milk or water, than to have it doughy. If the bread be freshly baked and 3'ou must make toast, dr}^ the slices in a warm oven before toasting. Always toast over the coals, or in the oven. If toasted over a hot stove, the crumbs fall through and burn, giving it a scorched and smoky flavor. 1 large tablespoonful butter. Scald the milk; put the butter in a granite saucepan; when melted, add the dr^' cornstarch; when well mixed, add one third of the milk. Let it boil, and stir constantly till it is a smooth paste ; add the remainder of the milk gradually, stirring well; then add the salt. Put the toast in a hot deep dish ; pour the thickened milk between each slice and over the whole. Keep the dish over hot water until ready to serve. If liked very soft, the sUces may be Milk Toast. 1 pint milk, scalded. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 1^ teaspoonf ul salt. 6 slices dry toast.