23 The Boston Cook Book. one inch thick; six, if one incli and a half thick. The smaller and thinner the article, the hotter should be the fire ; the larger the article, the more temperate the fire, or the greater the distance from the fire. Fish should be floured to keep the skin from sticking. A large baking-pan to keep in the heat should be held over anything "which is very thick and requires to be cooked a long time. Chickens, which need to be thoroughly broiled but not burned or dried, require about twenty minutes. A safe way is to wa'ap them in buttered glazed paper; cook the inner side first, and after the first searing keep them at a little distance from the fire. Chops, bacon, birds, and dr}^ fish are also improved by broiling in the buttered paper. Take a large sheet of white letter paper, or two small sheets. Eab them well with softened butter. This keeps out the air. Season the chop or fish with salt and pepper, place it near the centre of the paper, and fold the edges of the i3aper over several times and pinch them together close to the meat. The paper will char a long time before blazing, if care be taken not to break through the paper and thus let in the air and let out all the fat. The meat will be basted with its own fat and juices. A longer time will be required for the broiling ; but when the paper is well browned, the chop will be done. It will be found juicy and delicious, — free from any smok}^ fiavor. Pan-hroiling is broiling in a hissing hot spider or frying- pan. Heat the pan to a blue heat. Rub it with a bit of the beef fat, just enough to keep the meat from sticking, but do not leave any fat in the pan. Sear the meat quickly on one side, then turn without cutting into the meat, and brown the other side before any juice escapes into the pan. Cook about four minutes, turning twice, and serve very hot with salt and butter. If the pan be hot enough and no fat used, this is 7iot frying, it is hroiUng on hot iron; and the fiavor is almost equal to broiling over the coals.