6i The Boston Cook Book. but brown all over. Rolls are often brushed with milk just before and after baking, to give them a richer brown color. Rubbing over with soft butter while still hot makes a crisp, delicious crust. When well baked, if tapped with the fin- gers, a hollow, empty sound will be emitted ; the crust feels firm, and, if broken apart, the inside rebounds in- stantly on any slight pressure. The Care of Bread after Baking. — Remove the loaves immediately from the pans, and place them where the air can circulate freely round them and thus carry off the gas which has been formed, but is no longer needed. A bread or cake cooler, made of fine wire, set in a narrow frame thirty inches long b}^ twelve or fifteen broad, is a very use- ful article, as it will hold several loaves. An old wire window-screen, too small for modern windows, with cleats on the ends, to keep it two or three inches from the table, answers the purpose admirabl3\ Many use a wire sieve ; but that is small, and leaves the marks of the larger cross wires on the loaf. Never leave the bread in the pan, or on a pine table, to sweat and absorb the odor of the wood. If you like crusts that are crisp, do not cover the loaves ; but to give the soft, tender, wafer-like consistency which many prefer, wrap them, while still hot, in several thick- nesses of bread cloth. When cold, put them into a stone jar or tin box ; remove the cloth, as that absorbs the mois- ture, and gives the bread an unpleasant taste and odor. Keep the jar well covered and carefully cleansed from crumbs and stale pieces. Scald and dry it thoroughly every two or three days. A 3'ard and a half square of coarse table linen makes the best bread cloth. Keep a good suppl}^; keep them sweet and clean, and use them for no other purpose. Fine white bread should be partaken of in moderation. Although the "staff of life," it is not necessary to eat bread with every kind of diet. It is most useful when taken with articles containing a large proportion of nour- ishment in a small bulk, as it then gives the stomach the proper degree of expansion.