312 The Boston Cook Book. egg-beater, and others succeed best with a fork. The mixture soon becomes too hard to use an egg-beater to advantage. Lobster coral, dried and pounded to a powder, will give a Mayonnaise a bright red color. Spinach green, green peas mashed, or chopped parsley will color it green. Never mix the Mayonnaise dressing with the meat or fish until ready to serve, and then only part of it, and spread the remainder over the top. Mayonnaise Tartare is simply the addition of chopped olives^ pickles^ parsley^ capers^ and onions to the May- onnaise. Lettuce Salad. — Pick over and wash each leaf with- out breaking. Shake off the water and drain in a net. Keep the lettuce in a cool place until ready to serve. Just before serving, dry between two towels. Arrange the leaves in a salad bowl, the larger leaves around the edge and the light ones in the centre. Serve with boiled dress- ing^ or French dressing^ or sugar^ salt, and vinegar to taste. Lettuce should be served cool, fresh, and crisp. Never cut it, as that causes the leaves to wilt quickly. Tear them apart. Radishes or olives may be served with lettuce; and when a brilliant effect is desired, garnish with a few nas- turtium blossoms. When lettuce is used with other mate- rials, never mix them until ready to serve. Dressed Celery. — Use only the white, crisp part of the celery stalks. The green parts may be made into a puree or used in soups. Scrape off the brown discolored part, and wash thoroughly. Keep in cold water, and when ready to serve, drain and arrange in a celery glass. Serve with salt. Or cut the celery in thin slices, moisten with French or Mayonnaise dressing, and garnish with lettuce, cresses, or celery leaves. Lettuce and celery may be served with the roast if desired. Cucumber Salad. — Cut off an inch from each end of the cucumber, and pare off a thick paring, as a bitter juice lies near the skin. Cut in thin sUces, or shave with a vegetable cutter. Keep in cold water until ready to serve.