The Boston Cook Book, steep ten minutes. Sweeten if desired. Mullein tea is good for inflammation of the lungs ; Chamomile tea^ for sleeplessness; Calamus and Catnip tea^ for colds and infants' colic; Cinnamon tea^ for hemorrhages ; Water- melon-seed and Pumpkin-seed tea^ for strangury 'and summer complaint. A few sprigs of sage^ burnet^ halm^ and sorrel^ half a lemon ^ sliced, and three pints of boiling water^ sweetened to taste, and covered closely until cold, makes an agreeable drink for a fever patient. Another Condition in sickness occurs when, after long- continued, prostrating, or rapidly wasting disease, the sys- tem demands immediate nourishment to supply that waste, or when there is a lack of nutrition from any cause. Food that contains the most nourishment in the most easily as- similated form is now needed; but the physician should always be consulted as to the food suitable during the dif- ferent diseases. Liquid food is most suitable, and should \)Qfood as well as drink. In nearly all cases of fever milk is given when the patient can take it. Two or three grains of pepsin in a cup of milk or broth facilitate its digestion. In typhoid fever milk has often proved of great value, and is now generally recommended b}' the medical faculty in all cases of scarlet fever, nervous disorder, and all diseases arising from imperfect nutrition. It keeps up the strength of the patient, acts well upon the stomach, soothes the in- testines, and promotes sleep. It should be taken slowly to prevent the curdling in a dense mass which may occur if too much be taken at once. A pint of hot milk taken slowly, every four hours, will often check the most violent diar- rhoea and d3'sentery. It should never be boiled, only scalded. Eggnog or broth, meat broth, farina and oatmeal gruel, and port wine jelly, are all suitable at such times ; but beef juice and tea are most generall}' used by phj^sicians. They afford a fluid and easily assimilated form of food, and have a remarkable power of restoring the vigorous action of the heart, and dissipating the sense of exhaustion following