The Boston Cooh Book. 3i8 your arms will allow,—the whole length of the paste, if possible, at every stroke. Do not attempt to roll the paste when it is in a ball or a cubical form, but pat it lightl}^, to make as large and flat a surface as possible before rolling. Roll out to the thickness of one third of an inch, and to a rectangular form. Lay one of the quarters of butter in a little flour on the corner of the board, and roll quickly into a long thin piece ; scrape it up with a knife, and along the middle of the whole length of the paste. Fold over one side of the paste, then the other, letting the edges just meet in the middle of the butter. Do not pat it down. Then fold each end to the middle and double again. Pound into a flat cake and roll again one quarter of an inch thick. Eoll another piece of butter thin, lay it on the paste, fold the sides over, then the ends over, and then together, and repeat the process with the remaining pieces of butter. When the butter is all rolled in, the paste may be folded, patted, and rolled out, two, three, or seven times, as your strength will permit. Twice is enough for pies, three or four times for patties ; but more are needed for a vol-au- vent. When the butter is of the right texture, fine, smooth, and firm, not dry and crumbl3s and the mixing and rolling are done so quickly and deftly that the butter does not soften, the paste will not stick, and ver}^ little flour will be required in rolling. Do not strike a hard blow in rolhng, nor press the paste down to the board, but roll with a light gentle stroke. When the paste does not slip along the board, you may know it is sticking, and it must be lifted at once, the board scraped clean, and floured slightly. Should the paste become soft and stick}^, fold again, and pat it out to the size of the pan, and put it in the napkin between the two pans of ice. It will harden in ten minutes, and then may be rolled easily. After all the but- ter is in the dough, cut in two pieces, then roll and fold one, while the other is in the ice pan. Keep the board and pin wiped drj^, and use only a little flour, but use enough to keep the paste from sticking.