476 The Boston Cook Booh This oxygenized or vitalized blood now returns from the lungs, and enters the heart through the left upper door, or left auricle; the valves open and allow it to pass into the left ventricle, then out through the aorta, or great artery, from which the arteries carry it to the capillaries all over the system. In the capillaries the new material is deposited wherever needed, and changed by cell growth into new tissue. The lymphatic vessels take up all that is not needed, with the worn-out portions; and the veins then carry this impure blood back again to the lungs and heart. Thus a continuous circulation is established, the blood coursing over the whole body once in every three to five minutes, the time varying with the amount of exercise and the state of health. During this circulation the combustible compounds are burned by the oxygen received into the blood in the lungs, the carbona- ceous products of combustion are expelled through the lungs as carbonic acid gas and watery vapor, and the nitrogenous pro- ducts through the kidneys in the form of urates. " This process of digestion and absorption is really a kind of preliminary cooking process, going on from the mouth downwards all the way to the colon; and from every part of the long canal tiny lacteals and absorbing veinlets carry off contributions of food either to the general store of chyle, or to the venous blood w^hich is hurrying back to the heart.'' NUTRITION". Albumen is the basis of all animal nutrition. This is seen in the bird's egg during incubation. Under the influence of warmth and oxygen, all the tissues, membranes, and bones are developed from albumen." In the human body a nutritious fluid is prepared from the food, and supplies materials for growth and repair. This fluid is the blood, and when examined under the microscope is found to consist of a clear colorless fluid, of a saline, alkaline, and albuminous nature, and an immense number of infinitely minute blood globules, or corpuscles. These corpuscles consist of an albuminous membrane called globulin, filled with a red coloring matter, hematine, in which there is much iron. This liquid albuminous portion of the blood must be^changed to fibrine before it can nourish the muscles of the body. The