The Boston Cook Booh 4^3 SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS. The Course of Instruction at the Boston Cooking School, which is inserted on page 495, may be helpful to those interested in establishing Schools of Cookery. Beginning with the care of a fire and the simple dishes in daily use, the course includes illustrations of every principle involved in cookery. Special attention is given to breadj soups, entrees, meats, healthful puddings, desserts, and dishes for the invalid. The course is so arranged that each lesson offers a bill of fare for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. The number of dishes prepared at each lesson should be determined by the age and ability of the pupils, and the character of the instruction desired. In some classes it is desirable to have the dishes which are prepared served at the close of the lesson; thus an opportunity is given to instruct in laying the table and serving the food. With beginners or very young pupils, it is better to teach only two or three dishes at a lesson. Taking the first lesson in the first course for an example, a practice lesson may be conducted after the following plan. Explain first the construction of the stove and the making and care of a fire. When convenient, each pupil should take the entire care of a fire for one lesson. Let the pupils become familiar with the kitchen utensils, their names, and uses. The receipts should be read, and copied, if no text-book be used, and a portion of the work assigned each pupil. After the receipts are given, one pupil should prepare the yeast, another mix the bread, another pare and put the po- tatoes to soak, and another cut the bread for croutons, and wipe and trim the chops. The tables should be so arranged that pupils may watch what others are doing while busy about their own work. The attention of the whole class should be called to the making of the bread and yeast, and each in turn should help in the kneading. After the bread and yeast are set to rise, the potatoes should be put on to boil, the soup started, and the German toast prepared and left to soak. Those who prepared the bread and yeast may lay the table. When the potatoes and