The Boston Cook Book. 409 Conveniences in a Bick-Room, — '' In severe sickness a glass tube is useful for feeding drinks and gruels ; and little white china boats with spouts are also good. A wooden tray with legs six or seven inches high, to stand upon the bed, is very convenient for serving meals." To keep Ice for a Sick-Room, — Tie a square of coarse white flannel over a pitcher, leaving a cup-shaped depres- sion of the flannel in the pitcher. Put broken ice in the flannel, and cover it tightly with a thicker flannel. The ice will keep all night, and the water maj^ be poured off as wanted. In applying hot bandages dip the flannel in boiling water, place it in the centre of a coarse towel, and twist and wring the ends of the towel; or place the flannels in a steamer over hot water until penetrated with the steam; they will then need no wringing. Feeding the Patient, — When feeding the patient, do it gentl}^ and neatly. Anticipate his wants, and let the food be a surprise as far as practicable. In severe sickness give nourishment in a small quantity often,, and never fail to give it immediately after a long sleep. During convales- cence food should be given at longer, but regular intervals. If the patient be unable to use a toothbrush, wet a bit of soft cloth and wipe the teeth and gums, and give a little water or acid drink to soften the dr}- mucous membrane and destroy the bad taste in the mouth, before oflering any food. Let everything prepared for the invalid be arranged to please the ejx as well as the palate. Serve less than 3'ou think the patient requires, and give as much variety as possible, serving in different forms or in different dishes if the material must be the same. Hot liquids should be hot when they reach the patient, not merely when they leave the kitchen. Serve them in a hot pitcher, and pour onl}^ a little into the hot cup or bowl, and so avoid its run- ning over into the saucer or too rapid cooling. Never insult the patient by offering him a slice of dough covered with charcoal, under the name of toast. When the meal is