The Boston Cook Book, 362 salt to three or four parts ice. An easy way is to measure each with a saucer or small shallow pan. Put in a layer of ice three inches deep (pack it in solidly), then a meas- ure of salt (sprinkle it evenly on the ice), then three meas- ures of ice and one of salt, etc., till the freezer is full. Pack each la3'er in closely with a wooden paddle, and turn the freezer handle occasionally while packing. Be sure that the freezer works perfectly before adding the cream. The bearings and gears should be kept well oiled. When the cream is thoroughly cold, pour it into the can. Turn slowly at first, and after ten minutes more rapidly, till you can turn no longer. It usualty takes about half an hour. Re- move the beater, scrape off the cream, and beat and pack the cream closely in the can. Put a cork into the opening in the cover, and lay the cross-piece over to keep the can down in the ice. Cover with a piece of old carpeting wet in the salt and water. If the ice and salt have been well packed, and the cream is to be served within an hour and not moulded, no more ice will be needed ; but if to be kept longer, draw off the water and pack again. If to be moulded, beat the cream well, and pack into the mould; cover closely, and bury in ice and salt. After using the freezer, clean and scald the can ; dry thoroughly, and keep it uncovered while not in use. Drain the salt left in the freezer, and use again. A mixture of salt and snow answers when ice cannot be obtained. Use Turk's Island or coarse rock salt^ and 7iot what is called coarse fine salt. Ice-Cream, No. 1 (Philadelphia Ice-Cream). 2 quarts cream; if thick, add I 2 cups sugar. 1 pint milk. I 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla. This is the simplest, and to many the most delicious, form of ice-cream. Scald the cream ; melt the sugar in it, and flavor when cool. Freeze as directed above. The cream should be very sweet and highly flavored, as both sweetness and flavor are lessened by freezing. To make it lighter and more deUcate, whip the cream until you have