The Boston Cook Book. 49 of alkali or a residue of alum ; and then, if used habitually, it is injurious, and to some extent poisonous. It is con- venient to know how to make it well in an emergency, and it helps make variety. It is best, when freshly baked, in the form of small biscuit rather than in loaves, and is not as indigestible, when eaten hot, as hot yeast bread. But for a bread for general use, for bread that will keep well, for bread that will leave a sweet, clean taste in the mouth, for bread that will yield the most in bulk from a given amount of flour, for bread for promoting health, there is nothing equal to perfect, home-made yeast bread. It is not so difficult a task to make perfect bread as most young housekeepers imagine, or old housekeepers assert. It is not impossible for a young girl to succeed as well in her first attempt in this art as the mature housekeeper who counts her loaves by the thousand, provided she learns the best way of making it, and uses a reasonable amount of common-sense. The Best Kinds of Yeast. Who made the first j^east ? and how does a j^oung house- keeper start her own, when away from stores or friends, where she can neither bu}^ nor borrow ? are questions often asked. Simply make a thin batter with flour and water, and let it stand in a warm place till it ferments, and is full of bubbles. A pint of this ferment is equal to one cup of old yeast in starting the new. There are three kinds of yeast in general use, — the dry., the compressed., and the liquid., — each of which has its peculiar merits. Dry yeast calces^ such as the "National" or "Twin Brothers," are inexpensive, alwaj^s ready to use, and gen- erally^ liked by those who care more for economy of time and trouble than for the quality of their bread. Compressed yeast calces., like the " Vienna" or " Fleisch- mann's," are excellent, when perfect!}^ fresh ; the best form of yeast where bread is made in large quantities. But for a small family, where only a quarter of a cake is used per- 4