113 The Boston Cook Booh which are then washed and dried. The raw berries are tough, difficult to grind, and have but little flavor. Coffee should be roasted and kept in air-tight cans, that the fine flavor may be perfectly developed and preserved. Coflee is more stimulating than tea, and, when taken very strong after a hearty meal, aids digestion. It should be made in such a way that the full strength and aroma are obtained, without developing the tannic acid. This is done by pour- ing boiling water upon the coffee and keeping it in a closely covered vessel just below the boiling-point, or boiling not longer than five minutes. If allowed to boil longer, or left uncovered, the volatile oil w^hich forms the fragrant aroma is dissipated, and the tannic acid extracted. This acid, when combined with cream or milk, forms a leathery, indigestible compound which irritates the internal membranes. The proportion of one third Mocha and two thirds Java coffee is agreeable to most people. Many prefer to roast and grind the coffee for themselves ; but in coffee-houses the arrangements for roasting are now so complete, that it is well for small families to buy coffee already roasted, and to grind it as needed, or buy it ground in a small quantity. ^ The coffee-pot should be of granite ware or porcelain, and kept scrupulously clean, cleansing the spout as well as the pot ever}^ time it is used. A brownish deposit is soon formed on the inside of the pot, if the coffee be allowed to stand in it long, or if it be not often scoured. Man}^ a cup of ill-flavored coffee is owing to its having been made in an unclean pot. The proportions are, one heaping tahlespoonful of coffee to one cup of boiling water^ reducing the proportion slightly when several cups are required. Half a cup of ground coffee is enough for one quart of water^ and will make sufficient for five people. It takes a greater pro- portion of coffee and water, and it is more difficult to make just enough for one person than for more, as the last coffee poured out is not as clear as the first. The 8