The Boston Cook Book. S3 Many old receipts read, ^' Make a hole in the flour, add the yeast, and then pour in the liquid." If the 3'east be added to the milk or water, and well mixed with it, and the flour then stirred thoroughly into this liquid mixture, the 3'east will be more evenl}^ distributed through the dough, and less kneading will be required than when made by the old method. The other ingredients added to the dough are salt and sugar^ in the proportion of one even teaspoonful of salt and one even tahlespoonful of sugar to three pints of fiour^ using a little less salt if butter is added, and a little more with compressed yeast, as that is not as salt as home-made yeast, and doubling the amount of sugar when using whole- wheat flour. Sugar in Bread, — Man}^ object to the use of sugar in bread. Flour in its natural state contains sugar ; this sugar is changed in fermentation. Just enough sugar to restore the natural sweetness, but not enough to give a reall}^ sweet taste, is necessary' in fermented bread. Potatoes. — Potatoes are sometimes added to bread dough. Where the flour is of an inferior quality, the bread is very much improved by their use ; but with good flour they are unnecessarj^, and the use of them increases the labor of making bread. Shortening, — Whether bread shall be '' shortened or not shortened,'' is another question on which there is great diversity of opinion. Those who disapprove of fat of any kind in bread claim that we eat fat enough in other forms of food, and also that the same crisp tenderness of tex- ture ma}^ be produced by skilful kneading. Bread made witli new or unskimmed milk, and kneaded well, requires no other shortening; but water bread, when shortened, is made more tender, and therefore is more easil}^ pene- trated by the digestive fluids. The latest decision of the best phj'sicians is that fat is absolutely necessary as an element of food, and it is often given as a remedj^ for some diseases. The proportion which one person would receive from one tahlespoonful of butter, or drippings, or