45 2 The Boston Cook Book, panied by light, as in the case of the grate fire, takes place in each drop of the blood, and so slowly and continuously as not to be noticed." The force and heat absorbed from the sun by the vegetable in growing, and stored in its starch and sugar, are set free, by the decomposition of the vegetable, into carbonic acid and water again. These are given out, partly as heat, keeping the body temperature at 98°; and partly in other forms,—in that of mechanical motion, etc. All the external or internal work of the body is done by the force and energy of the food which is burnt therein. The greater the amount of work to be done, the greater must be the supply of fuel. The fire is constantly burning. " The smoke passes out in exhalation, inhalation is the bellows to furnish more oxygen," and food supplies the fuel. The kidneys are the grates through which the ashes are removed. But if we are "a house on fire," why are we not consumed? Because, lest this internal fire burn too freely, the oxygen of the air is diluted with nitrogen, which is incombustible. The blood, bones, and muscles of the body are composed largely of nitro- gen, sixteen per cent of that element being present; and this prevents the complete burning up of the structure. " What the iron is to the stove, the nitrogenous tissues are to the body." But the stove wears out in time, and so our bodies are con- stantly wasting away; and these nitrogenous elements must be supplied by our food. Food, to accomplish its purpose fully, should consist of these four elements: oxygen^ to support combustion, — obtained from the air; carbon and hydrogen, to furnish fuel, — obtained from w^ater and carbonaceous food; nitrogen, to build up and repair the tissues of the body, — obtained from nitrogenous food. Food, in the form in which it is eaten, cannot sustain life. It must be converted into a fluid that can pass through very small channels into the blood. Then it must be mixed with the air, and undergo certain changes, before it can replace the worn- out elements of the body. To prepare food so that it can most readily be assimilated, that is, made like our bodies, should be the chief purpose in cooking. To do this, three things are essential: 1st. The food selected should be of the right mate- rial, and properly proportioned; 2d. It should be cooked in the most digestible and attractive manner; 3d. It should be adapted to the various circumstances of age, occupation, climate, and state of health. Food, to be of the right material, should contain all the ele-