The Boston Cook Book. 48 to the acetic and soured the dough, or the tough, glutinous walls of the air cells are broken,—we check the forma- tion of gas, and kill the ferment by baking the dough in a hot oven. The alcohol escapes into the oven ; some of the starch is changed into gum, and forms the crust; and the rapid decomposition, produced by the intense heat, causes the crust to assume a brown color. Unfermented Bread, — This is made without yeast; but the principle is the same as in fermented bread, namely, the liberation of gas within the dough. The gas escapes quickly, and all such bread must be baked as soon as possible after mixing. There are no chemical changes in the starch or sugar; the elastic, glutinous dough is simply expanded by the gas. The starch cells are ruptured by the intense heat in baking ; but if the gas bubbles burst before the heat has fixed the gluten wall, the bread will be heavy. This gas is produced in the bread dough in various ways: 1st. By the gas in very cold water, and the air obtained by vig- orous beating; 2d. By the introduction of water under pressure, highly charged with gas. The first method is only suitable for mixtures which are to be baked quickly in a very hot oven, and eaten immediately, like gems, puffs, etc. The latter method produces what is known as aerated bread, making a light, sweet, spongy loaf; but it is not practicable for home use. 3d. The usual method is by some gas-generating compound, as the union of an acid and an alkali; usually soda, with either sour milk, cream of tartar, or muriatic acid. This is a convenient form adopted \)y many people who think it hard work to make 3^east bread. When the chemicals used are pure, and in such a proportion that they neutralize each other, and leave only Rochelle salt as a residue, this bread, if used only occasionall}^, is harmless. But Rochelle salt is a medicine, not a nutritive food ; and "those who are well do not need the disturbing influence of a medicine in their daily bread," and those who are ill do not often need this particular form of medicine. Through ignorance or care- lessness this bread is often made so that there is an excess