A7i The Boston Cook Book. DIG-ESTION. In studying digestion, it is well to keep in mind the twofold division of food into nitrogenous, or flesh-forming, and carbona- ceous, or heat-producing, elements. The process of digestion differs with the character of the food. The purpose of diges- tion is to change and combine all the elements of food into a fluid which will mingle with the blood, become assimilated, and furnish nutriment for the body. Digestion is not confined to the stomach. It begins with in- salivation in the mouth, and, after deglutition^ is carried on in the stomach and intestines, the process continuing through the entire length of the alimentary canal, — a tube varying in diameter, and thirty-six feet in length. The first process in digestion, as in any chemical analysis, is to crush the materials. The teeth are the grinders for reducing the food. If we bolt our food or swallow it in lumps, the soft coats of the stomach are made to do the tearing and grinding work of the teeth. A solvent being necessary, the saliva is secreted from the blood, and is poured through three pairs of glands into the mouth, each pair supplying a different saliva. This softens the starch and tender cellulose. Animals, like the beaver, which feed chiefly on woody matters, have very large salivary glands. In health the saliva is always alkaline, especially during and after meals. It lubricates the mouth, and moistens the food so that it may assume a pasty condition. It is also necessary to . the sense of taste, everything being tasteless that the saliva can- not dissolve. For this reason we cook and season our food so that it will excite the flow of the saliva. '' This saliva is poured into the mouth not to he cast out, but to do a specific work, then pass into the stomach and be again ab- sorbed. If the system be drained of the saliva by profuse spit- ting, as is the case with those who use tobacco freely, the order of bodily functions is reversed, and the mouth is made to do the work of the kidneys, which is to carry away a large amount of the superfluous water and all the waste salts."