128 The Boston Cook Book. it), and a strainer cloth over tlie colander. Then, with a ladle or dipper, dip the contents of the kettle and pour into the strainer. Never try to lift the kettle and pour it out, unless you have more strength and skill than most beginners. When you have only a pint left, you may try the pouring. Do not squeeze the cloth, but let the con- tents drain ten or fifteen minutes, then throw the scraps awa3\ Remember that you. have extracted all the nutri- ment, and have it in the w^ater; so do not expect to have any virtue in the meat or vegetables. Set the jar in a cool place, uncovered, but not in the ice chest while hot. It keeps better to cool quickly. In cold weather, and if 3^ou have used a large proportion of bone, the stock will harden like jelly, with a cake of solid fat on the top. This fat, by excluding the air, helps to keep the stock, and should not be removed until the stock is needed. In winter stock will keep a week, and longer, if made without vegetables. It should be heated occasionally to the boil- ing-point, or after taking off any portion of it, that what remains may harden again in an unbroken form. A little fresh charcoal tied in a bag and boiled with the stock is said to restore it when only slightly changed. In very warm weather, make only enough for each day, as sometimes it spoils in one night. If yoxx wish to make a soup while the stock is still hot, put what portion 3'ou may need into a shallow pan and place the pan in ice water, with a larger pan of ice water over it. This will soon harden the fat; or if you have not time to do this, take off what fat yoxx can with a spoon, and wipe off the remainder with soft tissue paper, or strain several times through a fine napkin. The grease will adhere to the napkin, which should be rinsed in cold water. That hardens the fat. Or you may let the soup boil gentlj', and nearly all can be taken off. To remove the fat after the stock has jellied, run a knife around between the cake of fat and the jar. If the fat be solid, it will sometimes come off whole ; but if soft, take off all you can without cutting into the jelly, then wring