The Boston Cook Book. lO The pressure of the air is less the higher we ascend above the level of the sea, since we leave much of the air below us. Cooking in boiling water requires a much longer time in mountainous regions ; for the water boils so quickly that it holds less heat than in lower altitudes, where it is subject to greater pressure. Water, in boiling, loses the air or gases which give it a fresh taste and spark- Ihig appearance. It becomes flat aiid tasteless. If there be any impurity in water, boiling or cooking will destroy it. Then, by cooling, and exposing to pure air again, it becomes aerated and palatable. But water for cooking, unless there are impurities to be removed, should be used when freshly boiled. This is especiall}' important in mak- ing tea and coffee. Soft water should be used in boihng where the object is to soften the texture, and extract the soluble parts, as in soups, broths, tea, and coffee. Hard water, or soft water salted, is better where we wish to preserve the articles whole, and retain the soluble and flavoring principles, as in most green vegetables. Beans or dried peas, which contain casein or vegetable albumen in large proportion, should be cooked in soft water, as the lime in hard water hardens the casein, and prevents the vegetables from becoming soft. In cooking meat, fish, and vegetables in water, we should remember these two facts : — Cold water draws out the albuminous juices, softens the fibres and gelatinous portions of meat, and holds them in solution. It draws out starch, but does not unite with it. Boiling water hardens and toughens albumen and fibrine, bursts the starch grains, and is absorbed by the swelling starch. Meat is cooked in water for three distinct purposes : — First, To keep the nutriment within the meat^ as in what is usually called hailed meat. To do this, we leave the meat whole, that only a little surface may be exposed. Plunge it into boiUng salted water, and keep it there for five or ten minutes ; this hardens the albumen over the entire surface, and makes a coating through which the juices