220 The Boston Cook Book. toward the middle of the creature, is called the navel end. Brisket pieces alwaj-s have what is called a selvedge on the lower side, and the breast bones running at right angles with the rib. After a little experience in marketing one may easilj^ distinguish the various cuts of beef. It is well to know what you want, and to know whether you get what you have ordered. Roast Sirloin of Beef. Six or eight pounds from the tip or second cut of the sirloin. Wipe, trim, and tie or skewer into shape. If there be a large piece of the flank, cut it off, and use it for soups or stews. If you prefer to use it for this purpose after roast- ing, draw it round underneath and fasten it with a skewer. Lay the meat on a rack in a pan, and dredge all over with salt^ pepper^ and flour. Put it in a very hot oven with two or three tahlespoonfuls of drippings or pieces of the beef fat placed in the pan. Place a rack under the pan, or turn the heat off from the bottom of the oven. Put the skin side down at first, that the heat may harden the juices in the lean part. When the flour is brown on the pan and the meat is seared, baste with the fat and reduce the heat. Baste often, and dredge twice with salt and flour. When seared all over, turn and bring the skin side up for the final basting and browning. Bake fifty or sixty minutes, if liked very. rare ; an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, if liked well done. If there be any danger of burning the fat in the pan, add a little hot water after the flour is browned. Meat may be roasted and carved better if placed in the pan and on the platter with the skin up instead of the flesh side. Carve a sirloin roast by cutting several thin slices parallel with the ribs. Then cut down near the backbone and sep- arate the slices. Cut out the tenderloin from under the bone, and slice it in the same manner. Many turn the sirloin over and remove the tenderloin first. Serve a little of the crisp fat on the flank to those who wish it.