The Boston Cook Book, 359 with a few drops of the liquid jelly, and when hard add jelh' to cover the fruit. When this is hard, place a smaller mould in the centre on the jelly and fill with ice. Pour the remainder of the jellj' between the two moulds, adding it slowly, and dropping in fruit here and there, if you clioose, until the mould is full. When the jelly is all firm, remove the ice, and add warm^ not hot^ w^ater to the smaller mould, and take it out carefull}', without breaking the wall of jelly. Fill the space with a Bavarian cream (page 356). Make a rich soft custard with the yolks of Jive eggs^ half a cup of sugar ^ and a pint of milk; strain, and flavor with vanilla. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm w^ater, put a dish over it, and invert dish and mould together. Remove the mould carefuU}', and pour the soft custard around the pudding. Make the soft custard w^liile the jelly is hardening; and do not put the materials for the Bavarian cream together until the small mould is removed from the jelly, and the cavit}^ ready for the cream. Do not turn out of the mould until just before it goes to the table, as the slightest jarring breaks the jellj'. A coffee cup within a quart bowl, and a small pail within a larger one, have been successfully used by those who had no moulds. A variet}^ of dishes may be made by using the differ- ent colored jellies and fruits ; and any of the creams stiff* enough to mould can be used as filling. Snow Pudding, or Creme Diplomate and Wine Jelly^ Norfolk Cream and Lemon Jelly^ Orange Sponge and Orange Jelly^ are attractive combinations. It may also be made in two sizes of small moulds, serving one mould to each person. Gateau St, Honore, — Line a pie plate with thin puff paste,, prick with a fork, and bake light brown. Make a cream cake paste (see Index), press it through a pastry bag round the edge of a jell}' cake tin, and bake the re- mainder in balls the size of walnuts. Place the puff* paste on a plate, and spread with raspberry jam or orange mar- malade. Lay the border of cream cake paste on the edge, and press it into the marmalade. Fill the centre with any