The Boston Cook Booh 138 in cold water, to be reserved for separate dishes. Cut the head into four or five pieces, and put it into the kettle with the skin side up, to prevent sticking. Add the cold water; heat slowly and skim thoroughly, as the meat is to be used again. Add the salt, and simmer two hours, or until the meat slips from the bones. liemove the meat, and put the face meat smoothly on a plate, so it can easily be cut into dice when cool. Eeserve the remainder of the meat for force-meat balls. Put the bones on to boil again. Add the herbs, spices, and vegetables, and simmer until reduced to two quarts. Strain, and set away to cool. Half an hour before serving, remove the fat, put the stock onto boil, and season with one saltspoonful each of ground thyme or marjoram and pepper, and one teaspoonful of salt. Make a brown thickening with two tablespoonfuls of butter, browned, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch or flour, and one pint of brown stock. Stir this into the stock. Add one cup of meat dice, made bj' cutting the face meat into half-inch cubes. Boil the three eggs twentj^ minutes, and make the 3^olks into egg balls, or cut the whole eggs in half-inch slices. Make force-meat balls with the reserved meat, according to directions on page 137. Put the meat balls and egg balls into the tureen, add the soup, and serve very hot with thin slices of lemon. This is usually flavored with a glass of sherry wine, but is very good with only the lemon, or a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Or 3'ou may boil w^ith it one pint of strained tomatoes. If you have no brown stock, boil one poufid of lean beef with the head, and use the head stock with the flour and butter tlii(^^ening. This soup is often made from calf's feet, and one or two pounds of lean veal. The feet should be soaked and scalded, boiled in four quarts of water with the herbs, spices, and vegetables, until the water is reduced to two quarts. Strain, and use as directed in the first receipt, making force-meat balls of the veal, and meat dice from the gelatinous meat of the feet.