484 The Boston Cook Book. soup are done, keep them hot while the chops are being cooked, the toast browned, and the coffee made. Keep the other dishes hot while the soup is being served. Let the pupils share in turn the duties of waitress and hostess. In the second lesson the teacher should have ready for baking bread mixed the night before, and also some cold boiled potatoes. While one pupil is preparing the pans for the bread, another may shape part of the dough into a loaf, and then all may assist in shaping rolls or biscuit. The blanc-mange should be pre- pared next, and put away to cool. Then the meat and potatoes chopped for the hash, and the eggs boiled in various ways. One or two eggs will be sufficient to illustrate soft- boiled eggs, and may be eaten at once. The hard-boiled eggs may be used in making scalloped eggs. The gruels may be made at any time, and tested when ready. Then start the potato soup, bake the rolls or bread, cook the fried or creamed potatoes and the hash, and while the table is being laid and the soup finished, another pupil may broil the fish. Where it is not desirable to have a lunch, or where only a few lessons are given, it is better to have each lesson devoted wholly to one subject. In a lesson on bread, several kinds of bread may be mixed, and that baked which was mixed the night be- fore. Also make soda biscuit, rye muffins, and gems or corn cake. Or arrange the lessons with reference to the principle and methods of cooking, as shown in the programme for a course of lectures. In practice classes the pupils should do all the work under the guidance of the teacher. It is not enough that the work be done for them, letting them learn by looking on. They should do for themselves, the teacher directing and explaining. It is better to run the risk of spoiling a dish than not to give the pupils a chance to try, as a failure is often the best lesson pupils can have. Then they wdll know w^hat to avoid when work- ing alone. In large classes or in a demonstration lesson, the work may all be done by the teacher with the assistance of the advanced pupils. During a lesson instruction should be given in washing dishes and in the buying and care of materials used in cooking, and the pupils should be encouraged to ask questions freely. Examine the pupils frequently in the general principles of cookery, and the nature of food materials. Although it is not necessary to memorize every receipt, yet every pupil should be sufficiently