488 The Boston Cook Book. What is the effect of an unusual amount of soda in cooking and upon the health? What is the use of gelatine? Why do we use condiments and flavorings? How do you make a soup; brown soup; white soup? What is the best way to cook a piece of tough meat? What is the best way to cook a neck of mutton? Why do we eat potatoes with fish? Why do we eat milk, but- ter, or eggs with rice? Why do we eat pork with beans? Why does meat putrefy and fruit decay? Why does salting preserve meat? Why does salting make meat less digestible? Why are not habitual, eaters of salt meat long-lived? Which diet is best, meat or vegetable, or a mixture of both? What are the principal beverages? What is the effect of tea on the system? What are capers; mushrooms; truffles? What is farina ; mazina; semolina? How would you select the best beef; mut- ton; poultry; fish; lobsters? Why is a stale egg lighter than a fresh one? Why do we not use hard water in cooking? Why do w^e not fry in mutton fat? What is the test for frying for different things? Why do we not fry in water? What is the effect of baking or boiling potatoes too long? What is the most important process in digestion? What are salads; en- trees? What is caramel; soy? What part of the plant is an apple; a chestnut; chocolate; a turnip; a clove; a blackberry; spinach; rhubarb; cinnamon; sugar; onion; coffee; vanilla? What are prunes? What is hoe-cake? What is the derivation of the word ** bread"? Why do we knead bread? Why do we cook our food? What were the earliest methods of cooking? What is the meaning of the term " cookery "? What is the difference between baking, roasting, broiling, sauteing, frying, braising, stewing, simmering, and boiling? What is a pot-roast? Give a rule for tomato soup. Give a rule and the exact order for making fish balls. Why is starchy food better cooked in boiling water? Correct this rule for gingerbread, write the rule in the right order, and estimate the cost: Four cups and a half of sugar, one teaspoonful of molasses, two cups of ginger^ one cup of soda, one taUespoonful of flour, one taUespoonful of butter, and one tea- spoonful of sour milk. Why does a bright tin cover keep anything hotter than a dull cover? Why does soup keep hot longer than water? Why does a kettle of water sometimes boil over? Why does water simmer before it boils? Why does cream rise to the top of milk? Why will water dissolve sugar and not oil? Why is meat tough if