207 The Boston Cook Book. any chicken or veal gravy ; sprinkle buttered crumbs over the whole, and bake till the crumbs are a delicate brown. No. 2. —After the eggs are filled with the mixture and put together as above, roll each egg in fine bread crumbs and beaten egg and in crumbs again, then repeat the pro- cess, and fiy in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve hot with tomato sauce or garnished with parsley, Scotch Eggs, — One cup of lean cooked ham chopped ver}'' fine ; six hard-boiled eggs. Cook one third of a cup of stale bread crumbs in one third of a cup of milk to a smooth paste. Mix it with the ham ; add half a teaspoonful of mixed mustard^ half a saltspoonful of cayenne^ and one raw egg. Mix well^ remove the shells from the eggs, and cover with the mixture. Fry in hot fat two minutes. Drain, and serve hot or cold, for lunch or picnics. Cut them into halves lengthwise, and arrange each half on a bed of fine parsley. The contrast between the green, red, white, and yellow gives a very pretty effect. No. 2.—Boil eggs twent}^ minutes. Make a force- meat with one cup of any kind of cold meat finel}^ chopped, half a cup of soft bread crumbs cooked to a paste, in one third of a cup of milk and one raw egg., beaten light, using just enough of the egg to unite the mixture, being careful not to have it too soft. If chicken be used, season with chopped parsley and a pinch of herbs; season ham with mustard and cayenne ; veal., with lemon juice or horseradish; and salmon^ with lemon and cayenne. Divide the eggs crosswise or lengthwise, or leave them whole. Cover each half or whole egg thickly with the force-meat, and place them on a buttered tin pan and bake in a hot oven till slightly browned. Arrange on a hot platter with a white sauce poured around (not over) them. Scalloped Eggs. —Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make one pint of white sauce with stock and cream or milk^ and season to taste. Moisten one cup of fine cracker crumbs in one fourth of a cup of melted butter or cream. Chop fine one cup of ham., tongue., poultry., or fish. Remove the