The Boston Cook Book, 123 Gelatine is found in the bones, skin, tendinous and gristly portions of flesh, especially in veal. It is this which causes the stock to become a jelly. But a soup which forms a jelly, or is made principally from bones, is not the most nutritious. The jelly of bones and sinews boiled into soup can furnish only jelly for our bones and sinews. It is use- ful in convalescence, for then the portions of the system in which gelatine is needed have been wasted ; but in other cases, though easily digested, it is unwholesome, for it loads the blood with disturbing products. It is entirel}' destitute of flavor, and therefore we need with it meat con- taining osmazome. Osmazome is that part of meat which gives to each of the various kinds its distinctive flavor. It is more abundant in brown than in white meats, and in the meat of old rather than in that of young animals. It is found largely in lean beef, mutton, and fowls. Osmazome is more highly developed in roasted meals; therefore all the bones and remnants of roasts which cannot be utilized in entrees^ should be put into the soup-kettle. We need also the alkaline and acid salts found in the blood and juices of the flesh; therefore a small portion of raw^ lean meat should form a part of all stock. Fat is necessar}', as an element of perfect food, and should alwa3's be used in making stock. It adds to the flavor, and all that is not absorbed in the stock may be re- moved when cold. The marrow^ found in the shin bone, is the best form of fat. The browned fat of roast beef gives a fine flavor, and occasionally a bit of ham or bacon may be used. But all mutton fat should be avoided, be- cause of its rankness. These four kinds of meat—beef, mutton, veal, and poul- tr}' — may be used together or separatel}'. It is better to use mutton, if in a large quantity, by itself, as the flavor is disagreeable to many. After having extracted all the nutriment from the meat in its juices, fat, albumen, and flavor, do not attempt to make further use of the worthless residue of muscular fibre. It is not only harmful, but dry,