The Boston Cook Book. 451 and lungs move with every breath. Every thought causes some change in the brain. Whenever any part of the body loses its power of motion, it dies. All this motion, whether voluntary or involuntary, results in the gradual wasting away of the flesh, blood, and bones of which the body is composed. *' We begin to die as soon as we begin to live." If the worn-out materials be not replaced, we die. One great object of food is to supply this waste. The demand for building material is greatest when the body is in a state of activity. Until the human body has attained its complete growth, there should be a constant supply of material for new growth^ as well as for repair. In maturity, or when, from bodily inactivity, there is less waste, a smaller supply will suffice. Food taken at regular intervals supplies means of growth, and repairs the worn-out tissues. Warmth. — The temperature of the living human body is about 98°. In hot or cold climates, in summer or winter, though the temperature of the external parts may vary, the internal tempera- ture is the same; and if not maintained within a few degrees of this point, death invariably follows. The source of this animal heat, so independent of outside circumstances, must be from within. To keep up this internal heat or fire, a constant supply of fuel is necessary. This fuel is supplied by our food. To fur- nish material for growth and repair, and to provide fuel for the warmth of the body, is the twofold object of food. Animal Coinhustion. — The process by which food maintains the motion and warmth of the body is a kind of combustion, and has often been compared to the combustion carried on in the steam-engine (see Youmans's Chemistry). We can have no combustion without oxygen; therefore oxygen is the first impor- tant element of food. The air is our great source of supply of oxygen, and a volume might be written on the necessity for pure air and perfect ventilation. We breathe oxygen from the air into our lungs, and exhale carbonic acid. There must there- fore have been some internal union of carbon or hydrogen with oxygen, and such a union always produces heat. The carbon and hydrogen are obtained from our food, and are important elements. They are necessary for animal combustion. Food is taken in a natural or in a prepared state, and, after undergoing certain processes of digestion and assimilation, be- comes a part of our bodies for a time, and then is burned in the body, the process resembling somewhat the burning of wood and coal in our grates. But this union of carbon and oxygen, "in- stead of taking place in one spot and so rapidly as to be accom-