The Boston Cook Book. another layer of fish and sauce. Moisten cracker crumbs in melted butter, and spread over the top with a fork. Set the platter in the oven over a pan of hot water, to keep the platter from cracking, and bake till the crumbs are brown. Garnish with parsley. The ivhites of two or three eggs^ beaten stiff and salted, are sometimes used in the place of crumbs, but are not so palatable. Two or three tahlespoonfuls of grated cheese may be mixed with the crumbs, if you like the flavor. The sauce may be mixed with the fish; but be careful not to mash the fish or get it too moist. Then the fish may be piled on the platter, higher and broader at one end and giving the outline of a flat fish; or arranged in the form of a fish shaped like the letter S, and covered with the crumbs. Or, if the fish be not broken in boiling, take it up carefully on the drainer, remove the head, skin, and small bones from one side, put a platter over the fish and invert platter and fish together; then remove the skin and the backbone from the other side, leaving the fish as whole as possible. Cover with the sauce and crumbs, and bake as above. This is not so desirable as the first method, because some fine bones are liable to be over- looked, and the sauce is not so well mixed with the fish. Remnants of Cooked Fish. Remnants of cold boiled or baked fish (using stuffing and sauce also) may be freed from skin and bones, flaked, and used in any of the following ways : — Scalloped Fish, — Vxxi jish and stuffing into a shallow dish in alternate la3'ers, with cream sauce to moisten ; cover with buttered crumbs^ and bake till the crumbs are brown. Fish in Potato Border. — Warm the fish slightly in a white sauce^ and put it in the centre of a dish with a border of mashed potatoes. Or, if you have enough material for a large platter, put the border on the edge and a higher mound of potatoes in the centre, and fill the space between with the fish. Sprinkle buttered crumbs lightly over the whole and set in the oven till brown.