The Boston Cook Book, 69 by the receipts for bread ; the proportions are enough for one pan of bread, and one pan of biscuit containing twelve or sixteen according to the size. They should always be made small, and shaped with the fingers, not cut with a cutter. Divide the portion of dough reserved for biscuit into halves, then into quarters, and each quarter into thirds or quarters. To shape a biscuit^ take one of these quarters in the left hand and rest it lightly on the board. With the right thumb and forefinger draw a point of the dough up and over to the centre, and hold it down with the left thumb. Give the dough a slight turn toward the left, and repeat the drawing up and folding over until 3^ou have been all round the ball. You may roll them in the hands until all these foldings have disappeared and they are smooth and round, and call them simply biscuit; or you may make the folds as distinct as possible, and place them at once in the pan. The folds will spread apart in rising, and when baked they can be peeled off in layers. They are then honored with the name of Imperial Rolls. Put the biscuit in a shallow round pan, fitting them closely, that they may rise up, round and puffy, instead of spread- ing. When very light, bake in a very hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Keep them wrapped in a bread cloth for at least half an hour before serving. The receipts for Milk Bread are especially nice for biscuit. Eolls. Rolls are made by rolling the raised dough into small forms, with the hands or with a rolling-pin, and afterward cutting and folding into the desired shape ; the shape and manner of manipulation giving the distinctive names. The dough for rolls should be very light, and when wanted un- usually nice, more shortening should be worked into it after the second kneading. The rule for Water Bread made with a sponge is good for plain rolls; Milk Bread m.ade with a sponge is the same as Parker House Rolls^ which have been generally adopted by housekeepers as the stand-