The Boston Cook Book, 252 should break when pressed with the thumb and finger. Wild ducks have reddish feet. Tame ducks have thick yellowish feet. Young pigeons have light red flesh on the breast, and full flesh-colored legs. Old pigeons are thin, and the breast very dark. Wild pigeons are cheaper, but are dry and tough. Stall-fed pigeons are the best. Squabs are young tame pigeons, and always have pin feathers. Grouse^ partridge^ and' quail should have full heavy breasts, dark bills, and yellowish legs. Young rabbits should have smooth, sharp claws, tender ears and paws, and short necks. Venison should be dark red, with some white fat. ' To Clean and Truss Poultry and Game, — The practice of sending poultry to market undressed is one that de- mands as earnest opposition from housekeepers as that of the adulteration of food. The meat is rendered unfit to eat, is sometimes infected with poison ; and the increase in weight makes poultr}^ a verj^ expensive food. All poultry should be dressed as soon as killed. The feathers come out more easily when the fowl is warm, and when stripped off toward the head. If the skin be ver}- tender, pull the feathers out the opposite wa^^ Use a knife to remove the pin feathers. Singe the hairs and down by holding the fowl over a gas jet, or over a roll of lighted paper held over the fire. Cut ofl" the head, and if the fowl is to be roasted, slip the skin back from the neck and cut the neck off" close to the body, leaving skin enough to fold over on the back. Remove the windpipe; pull the crop away from the skin on the neck and breast, and cut off* close to the opening into the ho^y. Be careful not to tear the skin. Alwa3^s pull the crop out from the end of the neck, rather than through a cut in the skin, which if made has to be sewed together. Cut through the skin about two inches below the leg joint; bend the leg at the cut by pressing it on the edge of the table, and break off* the bone. Then pull, not cut, out the tendons. If care be taken to cut only through the skin, these cords may be pulled out easily,