The Boston Cooh Book, 254 lungs are often left in bj careless cooks ; but everything that can be taken out must be removed. When the fowl has been cleaned carefull}^ it will not require much wash- ing. Hold it under the faucet, or rinse out the inside quickl}^; then wipe dvy. If the breastbone protrude more than is desirable, put a small knife in at the opening, and cut through the cartilage in the ribs or through the breastbone. Or put a pestle in the inside, la\^ a towel over the breast, and pound slightly until the bone gives way. To Stuff a Fowl.—Place the fowl in a bowl, and put the stuffing in at the neck; fill out the breast until plump and even. Then draw the neck skin together at the end, and sew it over on the back. Put the remainder of the stuffing into the body at the other opening, and if full, sew it with coarse thread or fine twine. If not full, sewing is unnecessary, except when the fowl is to be boiled. To Truss a Fowl. — Draw the thighs np close to the body, and cross the legs over the tail, and tie firmly with twine. Put a long skewer through the thigh into the body and out through the opposite thigh, and another through the wings, drawing them close to the body. Wind a'string from the tail to the skewer in the thigh, then up to the one in the wing, across the back to the other wing, then down to the opposite thigh, and tie firml}' round the tail. If you have no skewers, the strihgs must be passed round the body, over the thighs and wings ; and care must be taken, in removing them, not to tear the browned crust on the breast. Sometimes the feet are cut off in the joint, and the legs passed into the body and out through an opening under the sidebone near the tail, or left in the body and covered with the*skin. To Clean the Giblets. — Slip off the thin membrane round the heart, cut out the veins and arteries, remove the liver, and cut off all that looks green near the gall bladder. Trim the fat and membranes from the gizzard, cut through the thick part; open it, and remove the inner lining with- out breaking. Cut off all the white gristle, and use only