The Boston Cook Book. 247 Boiled Ham. If very salt, let it soak over night. Scrub well; trim off the hard black part, cover with cold water, and let it simmer slowly, allowing half an hour to the pound. Take it from the fire; let it remain in the water until nearly cold ; then peel off the skin and sprinkle sugar and grated breads or cracker crumbs^ over the top, and brown in the oven. Or boil until nearly tender; remove the skin and bake two hours ; baste often with vinegar. Cover with crumbs, return to the oven, and brown. Or omit the crumbs and cover with a paste made with one teaspoon/id of brown Jlour and half a cup of brown sugar^ moistened with a little port wine. Spread this over the ham, and brown in the oven. Serve with a brown sauce flavored with half a glass of champagne. Trim the knuckle with a paper ruffle. In carving, cut in very thin slices. Old hams are improved by adding a pint of vinegar and a table- spoonful of herbs to the water in which they are boiled. If the ham is not to be served whole, boil till it is very tender; let it cool, and remove the skin and bones, and press it, with the fat well mixed with the lean. To serve Cold Boiled Ham. — Cut in thin slices ; season highl}^ with cayenne pepper., or with mustard and lemon juice^ and broil two minutes. Melt half a glass of currant jelly; add a teaspoonful of butter.^ a little pepper., and when hot add several small thin slices of ham. Let it boil up, and serve at once. Cut the nicest part of lean ham in small thin slices. Chop the trimmings fine, and heap high in the centre of a platter. Garnish with the slices overlapping each other on the edge of the dish. Fried Ham. — Cut the ham in thin slices, remove the outside, gash the fat, and cook in a frying-pan till the fat is crisp. If cooked too long, it will become hard and dr}'. Broiled Ham. — Cut in very thin slices, and broil three or four minutes. Old or verj^ salt ham should be parboiled five minutes before being broiled. Serve with poached eggs.