The Boston Cook Book. 372 white run into the cup, and keep the yolk in the half shell until all the white is drained off. Be careful not to break the yolk, as the smallest portion of it in the whites will prevent them from frothing. Beat the j^olks in a bowl, and the whites in a platter if you use a fork or whisk, or in a bowl if you use a Dover beater. Never stop beating the whites until the}^ are stiff and dry, as it is impossible to have them light if they become liquid again. Measure all the ingredients, and have the fire and all utensils readj^ before 3^ou begin to mix. Observe the fol- lowing order in putting materials together. Sponge Cake Mixtures, — Beat the 3'olks until light or lemon-colored and thick. Add the sugar graduallj^, and beat again. Add the lemon juice or flavoring, and water, if that is to be used. Beat the whites until stiff and dry, and cut or fold them in lightl}', then sift in the flour, and fold in carefully without any stirring. Sponge cakes should not be beaten after adding the flour. Those made with soda and cream of tartar require less beating than those without, but they are a very poor substitute for genuine sponge cake. Butter Cake Mixtures, — Warm the bowl with hot water, then wipe dry. Put in the butter, and rub with a wooden or silver spoon until light and cream3^ Be careful not to have the bowl so hot as to melt the butter. Add the sugar and beat again. If the habit of rubbing the butter and sugar together with the hand be already formed, and you find it easier than to use a spoon, it is hardly worth ¥/hile to change; but for those who are wholly inexperienced it is better to learn to use the spoon, and every lady would prefer to have her cook mix in that way. If the proportion of sugar be large for the butter, — more than double, — beat part of the sugar with the butter, and the remainder with the yolks of the eggs. Where a very small proportion of butter is to be used, it may be melted and mixed with the eggs and sugar. Beat the yolks till light and thick, then beat them well with the butter and sugar. Add the