394 The Boston Cook Book. silver knives, and pare just before cooking, that the deli- cate flavor of the fruit may be preserved, and its attractive appearance not impaired hy discoloration. Stewed Apple Sauce, — Pare, core, and quarter six or eight tart apples. Make a syrup with one cup of sugar,, two thirds of a cup of v^ater^ and a little lemon peel. When boiUng, add the apples, and cook carefullj^ two or three minutes, till the}^ are just tender, but not broken. Remove them carefullj^, boil the syrup down a little, and strain it over the apples. Cook them in granite or porcelain pans, and use a wooden spoon. Compote of Ap)ples, — Make a syrup with one cup of sugar,, one cup of water,, and a square-inch of stick cin- namon. Boil slowl}' for ten minutes, skimming well. Core and pare eight or ten tart apples ^ cook till nearly done in the syrup. Drain, and cook them a few minutes in the oven. Boil the s^Tup till almost like a jellj-. Ar- range the apples on a dish for serving. Fill the core cavities with jelly or marmalade. Pour the syrup over them. Put whipped cream around the base, and garnish the cream yi\\X\ jelly, Baked Apples, — Core and pare sour apples. Put them in a shallow earthen dish, fill the cavities with sugar,, mixed with grated lemon rind; add water to cover the bottom of the dish. Bake in a very quick oven till soft, basting often with the syrup. Quinces may be baked in the same waj', adding a little more water, as the}' require a longer time for baking. When eaten hot wdth butter and sugar^ they are delicious. N'o. 2. — Fill a deep pudding-dish with apples, pared, cored, and quartered. For two quarts add one cup of sugar and one cup of water. Bake, closely covered, in a very moderate oven several hours, or till dark red. Baked Pears,—Hard pears, or "windfalls," are deli- cious pared and baked as in the preceding receipt. When done, and still hot, they may be sealed in Mason's jars, and will keep indefinitely. B}' preparing one large dishful every day during the pear season, a supply of wholesome