The Boston Cook Book. 54 lard, in two loaves of bread would not harm the most deli- cate stomach. Butter tastes best; drippings are cheap- est. Lard has for its chief merit that of making whiter bread than either of the others. The shortening m^y be rubbed into the flour, or, better still, melted in the warm liquid. Too much shortening clogs the glutinous cell- walls, and therefore checks the rising. Eolls, rusks, and buns, which are usually shortened more than loaf bread, should have the butter added at the.last kneadino:. The bread should be mixed in a deep stone-china or granite bowl; wooden bowls are difficult to keep sweet and clean. Brown earthenware is awkward in shape and clumsy to handle, while tinware, being a better conductor than china, lets the heat within the mass escape, and the tin rubs off from the constant friction. Use a wooden spoon, or a wooden-handled iron spoon, or a broad-bladed knife. Kneading the Dough. — Kneading is the process of press- ing or working the dough in such a manner that the flour and water may be thoroughly mixed, and the yeast be so evenl}^ distributed that the fermentation may be equal through the whole mass. It may be done cutting or chopping, either with the hand or machinerj- ; but there is nothing that gives the fine, even grain to bread so well as hand-kneading; and no surer test of the proper consist- ency of dough than that given by the sense of touch. There are some kinds of milk bread and rolls which are YQYj good without it; but water bread should always be kneaded. It is often done in the mixing-bowl, hy draw- ing the dough over from the side and pressing it down in the centre, turning the bowl with the other hand ; but it is more effectually accomplished on a bread-board. In Spain the bakers knead the bread with such force that the palms of the hands and the second joints of the fingers are covered with corns ; but strength and force are not so essential to good kneading as a peculiar and dexterous handling of the dough. The most approved process is the following: —