129 The Boston Cook Book. a cloth out of ver}^ hot water, and wipe the stock. The hot cloth will absorb the fat readily. Remember, if the soup is to be served clear, not a pin-head of fat must be left; but if it is to be thickened with an}' starchy material, this will absorb what cannot be removed with a spoon. This fat must be saved and clarified according to direc- tions on page 18. With this stock for a foundation, you may make an endless variet}^ of soups, each soup taking its name from the principal solid ingredient; and it is equally valuable to use, instead of water, in making gravies or sauces. No matter how little 3^ou have, one cupful is worth more than it costs to make it, as an addition to fricassees and braised meats. This stock, if properly made and strained, will be sufficiently clear for any common soups. But for clear sparkling soups and aspic jellj', it must be clarified with the white of an egg. To clear Soup Stock. Eemove the fat, and allow the white and shell of one egg for every quart of stock. If you wish to flavor the stock more highly, add half a saltspoonful of celery seed and the thinnest possible shavings from the rind of half a lemon. Add also the lemon juice, and more salt and pepper if needed. Mix celery seed, lemon, egg, etc. with the cold stock, and beat it well. If the stock be hot when the egg is added, the egg will harden before it has done its work. This is a point where many fail. Set it over the fire and stir it all the time, until it is hot, to keep the egg from settling. Then leave it, and let it boil ten minutes. By this time a thick scum will have formed, and as it breaks the liquid will be clear and sparkling, like wine, and darker than before. Draw it back on the stove, and add half a cup of cold water. Let it stand ten minutes, while you get 3'our jar, colander, and fine napkin readj^ for straining. Wring your napkin out of hot water, and la}^ it over the colander. Put the finest wire strainer on the napkin and then pour it all through. This strainer will catch the scum 9