436 The Boston Cook Booh Moulds should be greased for any steamed mixture ; wet in cold water for jell}^, creams, etc. ; and neither wet nor greased if to be lined with cake. A mould of jelly will cool quicker if placed in a pan of ice water or snow than in the ice-chest. Candied or Crystallized Fruit or Niits, {Mrs, Camp- bell,) — Boil 07ie cup of granulated sugar and one cup of boiling water together for half an hour. Then dip the point of a skewer into the syrup and then into cold water. If the thread formed break off brittle, the syrup is ready. The S3Tup must never be stirred, and must boil slowly, not furiously. When done, set the saucepan in boiling water, or pour the syrup into a bowl placed in hot water, to keep the sjTup from candying. Take the prepared fruit or nuts on the point of a large needle or fine skewer, dip them into the syrup, and then lay them on a dish, which has been lightly buttered or oiled ; or string them on a thread, and after dipping in the syrup suspend them by the thread. When oranges are used, divide them into eighths, and wipe all moisture. Cherries should be stoned. English walnuts are especiallj^ nice prepared in this wa}'. To Blanch Almonds and other Nuts. — Remove the shells, cover with boiling water, and let them stand till the dark skin will rub off easily. Then put them in cold water, rub off the skins, and dry between towels. Corned Meat, — Fresh meat may be kept some time by corning it slightly. Wipe carefull}", and remove any parts that are not sweet and fresh, then rub all over thickly with salt. Or make a brine with rock salt and cold water ; use salt enough to float the meat, then cover, and put a heav}' weight on the cover to keep the meat under the brine. Three days' time is sufficient for corned meat. To MaJce Paper Boxes, — These can be obtained, in a variety of forms, from the confectioner; but plain ones may be made in this wa3^ Take a piece of stiff white paper, five inches square. Find the centre of the square b}' folding two opposite corners together and creasing lightly in the middle, then open and fold the other two in