468 The Boston Cook Book. giving food. The starch and sugar obtained from fruits and vegetables are easily digested, and furnish sufficient warmth. The Esquimaux or Greenlander consumes a large quantity of fat^ or blubber oil^ the most condensed form of carbonaceous food. This gives him the amount of heat necessary in an ex- tremely cold climate. With this blubber he mixes some indi- gestible substances to give the needed bulk for the perfect action of the stomach. The people of Norway, Sweden, and Russia use large quantities of oily fish. In China, India, and other extremely hot climates, rice is the universal food. Kice contains a very small amount of flesh-forming material, being mostly starch, which is changed into sugar by the action of the saliva. The natives of rice-eating countries owe much of their lack of spirit and energy to this defective diet. But when eaten with butter or olive oil, and made into curries, pilaf, and pilau, with a small amount of flesh or fish, it supplies all the elements necessary for life in such climates. The Spaniard in his olla podrida — a stew of peas, bacon, or fowl, with red pepper — finds all the necessary elements. The red pepper, used so largely in the curries and other dishes common to hot climates, stimulates the liver, which is naturally w^eakened by the long-continued heat, and thus assists digestion. The Arab chooses dates,parched grains, mare's or cameVs milk. The Turk adds to these melons and cucumbers. As we come northward again, we find more flesh-forming material in the polenta (a dish made of Indian corn) and the chestnuts, macaroni, and cheese used by the Italians. The pot-au-feu is the principal dish of every peasant in France. This furnishes the cheapest form of nutriment, and contains all the necessary elements of food. The ivaters of a country sometimes determine the national food. In Ireland, w^here the waters are strongly impregnated with lime, they furnish what the potato, which is richer in pot- ash and soda, lacks. When potatoes are combined with cabbage and pork, as in kolcannon, the flesh-forming element is supplied; and this, on account of the cost of meat, the laboring classes are unable to obtain in any other form. In England and Scotland, where the waters are soft, oats and wheat, which are rich in phosphates, are the staple diet. When combined with milk, eggs, rice, peas, beans, bacon, and cheese, their food is complete. To satisfy the natural instinct to obtain these five elements, we all prefer our bread with butter or cream, our meat with potatoes, our rice with butter, milk, or eggs; our fish we cook in fat; we eat liver with bacon and ham, or bacon with eggsj