The Boston Cook Book, 464 would, and causes the sourness of the milk. The caseine is in- soluble in water, but in the milk it is combined with soda, and this compound is soluble. So, when the milk sours, and a suffi- cient quantity of acid is formed, it seizes upon the soda, takes it away from the caseine, and forms lactate of soda. The caseine, being thus set free, shrinks, and gathers into an insoluble curdy mass. This separation is spontaneous; but it is often caused artificially, by the use of an acid, —usually rennet, which is the lining membrane of a calf's stomach. The curd thus separated is pressed and prepared in various forms of cheese. It contains the nutritious elements of the milk in a condensed, but somewhat indigestible form. Cheese is more digestible when made from fresh than from skimmed milk. The whey is the water of the milk that separates from the curd in souring, and contains dissolved in it the sugar of milk and the saline and mineral ingredients. It is much better to use milk in its natural state than to use the butter or cheese obtained from it. It is the cheapest form in which animal food can be obtained, and should be used freely, especially by the young or weak. Condensed milk, when well prepared, is convenient and valu- able as an article of diet, if fresh milk cannot be obtained. It can only be made from pure milk, and is therefore perfectly harmless. CONDIMENTS. There is another class of foods, called condiments, which should not pass unnoticed. Food that " tastes good is digested more readily, and assimi- lated more perfectly, so that we really derive more nourishment from it. We use many articles with our food to make it taste better, which are not in themselves valuable as food. But by stimulating the flow of saliva and gastric juice, and enhancing the fine flavor of food, they increase the pleasure of eating, and render digestion more complete. These are called condiments. They are not necessary to persons of sound digestion, and, with the exception of salt, should not be used by children, nor by any one in large quantities. In perfect digestion there is the first taste in the mouth and the after-taste of the digestive organs which require satisfaction. Any cook may gratify the first, but the second requires a skilled chemist.