475 The Boston Cook Book, Notwithstanding all these powerful agents in digestion, a portion of -useful matter passes through the intestines un- changed; and if there be a deficiency of either fluid, or a weakness of the muscular coats, or too great a quantity of irri- tating substance, like cellulose, woody fibre, bran, etc., the amount is increased. This is carried, with the innutritions portion, into the larger intestine, and forms a part of the excretions. ABSORPTION. The nutritive and perfectly digested portions of food are absorbed partly by the veins of the stomach, entering at once into the circulation, and partly by the intestines. The lining membrane of the intestines folds over and over upon itself, like a ruffle, along the entire edge; this is full of little tubes, or villi, which absorb the chyle. The blood vessels absorb the nutritive elements from the villi and carry them to the veins in two ways: 1st. Through the portal vein into the liver, where it penetrates every part of the liver, then passes out through the hepatic vein into the veins near the heart; 2d. Through the lacteals, which are attached to the lining membrane of th-e intestines and empty into the thoracic duct, a tube extending along the spine, and then into the subclavian vein, which lies in the left side of the neck, under the collar bone. The veins also bring with them the lymph, — a thin colorless fluid which comes from the absorbent vessels situated all over the body, and which contains the worn-out particles. Then the venous blood, supplied from the lacteals with new material, and from the lymphatic vessels with waste materials, enters the heart through the upper door, or right auricle, passes through the valves down into the right ventricle; out through the pulmonary artery into the lungs, where, as purple venous blood, it penetrates to the most remote capillaries. If the lungs be full of pure fresh air, the oxygen changes the purple blood into red blood, and burns up the impurities. The waste products of the combustion of carbon and hydrogen are expelled from the lungs at every breath in the form of carbonic acid and watery vapor; and not until now can the new elements in the blood, obtained from the food, become in reality food, or perfect blood.