The Boston Cook Booh. very quickly cooked ; and they have a flavor quite unlike that given by any other form of cooking. All articles to be fried should be thoroughly dried and slightly warmed. If very moist, or very cold, or too many articles be fried at a time, the fat becomes chilled, and the grease soaks into them. Then, as the moisture heats and boils, it causes such a commotion that the fat and water boil over, and there is great danger from the fat taking fire and spreading to your clothing, to say nothing of the trouble of cleaning the stove and floor. For this reason be careful not to let a drop of water, or of con- densed steam from another kettle, fall into the hot fat. Meat, fish, oysters, croquettes, etc., should be dried, and rolled in fine bread-crumbs, to absorb any moisture ; then rolled in beaten egg, and in fine crumbs again. The hot fat hardens the albumen of the egg instantly ; and that, with the crumbs, makes a fat-proof crust. Fish balls, fritters, and fried muffin mixtures contain egg and albumen sufficient to keep them from soaking fat, if the fat be only hot enough. A Scotch bowl, or deep iron or granite kettle, and a wire basket small enough to fit down into the kettle, are best to use in frying. The Test for Hot Fat. — When the fat begins to smoke put in a bit of bread ; if it brown quicklj^, or while you can count sixty as the clock ticks, it is hot enough for fried potatoes, doughnuts, etc. When hot enough to brown the bread while you count forty, it will do for fish balls, croquettes, etc. When ready to fry, plunge the basket into the hot fat to grease it, and then place in it the croquettes, or what- ever you may be frying, so that they will not touch each other. Hold the handle of the basket with a long fork, and plunge it quickly into the fat, but do not drop the handle, because if the fat begin to boil up, you can then raise the basket quickly, and wait till the ebullition has subsided before plunging it in again; and thus avoid the danger of burning from the overflowing fat. The fat cools rapidly, when many articles are fried at once, and