The Boston Cook Book. 58 when made with milk, need never sour. But should the accident ever occur, it is better to eat the bread, or dry it for crumbs, or throw it away even, than to use the soda. This practice is so abominable that here it will receive neither aid nor encouragement. Shaping into Loaves or Biscuit, — At least an hour be- fore the time for baking, scrape the dough from the bowl, and turn it out upon the board, which should be dusted with flour; knead it slightly, and divide into the proper proportion for loaves. The measures given in the following receipts fill two brickloaf pans, which are eight inches long by four inches broad and five inches deep, with nearly straight sides. This shape gives small uniform slices. Small round pans w^ere formerl}' considered best for baking both bread and cake ; and there is some truth in the reason given, namelj', that the cells which are formed b}- the gas are circular in form, and are much more uniform in a round than in an oblong loaf, in which the corner cells are easily flat- tened or compressed, forming heavy streaks around the edges. But many people dislike the shape of the slices in a round loaf, and oblong pans have been more generally adopted. They should be greased with lard or drippings. It is better to divide the dough into four equal parts and put two in each pan, for several reasons : a small round loaf is more easily shaped, and can be broken, if wanted, while fresh, better than a long loaf; two small loaves rise and fill the pan more evenly than one long loaf; and unless great care be taken in shaping to have the one loaf of uniform thickness, it will rise more in the middle and give uneven slices. Man}^ make a deep cut through the middle to prevent this ; but that spoils the smooth round eflfect which adds so much to the looks of the crust. Use the merest dusting of flour in shaping, and knead ju^t enough to work out the large bubbles of gas by fold- ing the mass over into the middle, then letting it spring open. Pat, coax, and work it with the hand and fingers