33 The Boston Cook Booh. the mixture, except to scrape the sides of the bowl occa- sionally. Stir slowlj' at first, to avoid spattering; add the liquid gradual!}', and be sure the bowl of the spoon (not the edge nor the tip merel}^) touches the bottom and sides of the bowl. This is mashing as well as stirring, and the mixture soon becomes a paste. When perfectl}^ smooth and free from lumps, add more liquid till you have the desired consistenc3\ We stir flour and water together for a thickening, or butter and flour and milk for a sauce. We stir when we rub butter to a cream, or when we make a batter or semi-dough. When we make a stifl* dough we stir at first, and then turn the whole mass over, bringing the knife or spoon round the bowl and cutting up through the dough. Beating. — Tip the bowl slightly, and hold the spoon so that the edge scrapes the bowl, and bring it up through the mixture and over with a long quick flop to the oppo- site side; under, and up through again, lifting the spoon out of the mass and cutting clear through, scraping from the bottom at ever}^ stroke. Keep the bowl of the spoon and the sides of the mixing-bowl well scraped out, that all the material may be equally beaten. We stir simply to blend two or more materials ; we heat to entangle all the air possible in the mixture. We beat eggs or batter or soft dough. The albumen of the eggs and the gluten of the flour, owing to their visciditj^ or glutinous properties, catch the air and hold it in the form of cells, something as w^e make soap bubbles hy blowing air into soapy water. The faster we beat, and the more we bring the material up from the bowl into the air, the more bubbles we have; but one stirring motion will de- stroy them. Yolks of eggs should be beaten nearlj^ as much as the whites, or till they are light or lemon-colored, and thicken perceptibly. The whites should be beaten till they are stiff and dry, or fly oflT in flakes, or can be turned upside down without spilling. When the two are to be put together, always plan to turn the whites into the yolks, as there is less waste than when the yolks are turned into 3