The Boston Cook Book. 290 long peppers, and black pepper are of this class. Mustard and celery seeds are used as well as the leaves. Nutmegs are seeds; and mace is the arzZ, or covering, of the nutmeg. Seed vessels are used green, as in string beans, and also dried and ground, as in cayenne pepper. Farinaceous seeds or grains include wheat, r^'e, oats, corn, barley, rice, and buck- wheat. They have a thin seed vessel adhering closely to the whole surface of the seed. Oleaginous seeds contain oil and starch, like the cocoanut, walnut, chestnut, almond, etc. Leguminous seeds are enclosed in pods, as peas, beans, lentils, etc. Under the general name of fruit we eat very different things. Fleshy fruits^ like grapes, tomatoes, gooseberries, blueberries, cranberries, and currants, are pulpy seed vessels. Oranges and lemons are pulpy seed vessels^ with a thick leathery rind. Squashes, melon, cucumbers, egg-plant, etc., are fleshy fruits with a hard rind. Chocolate is made from the seed of 2i fleshy fruit. In checkerberries, quinces, and in all parts of the apple and pear but the core, we eat a fleshy^ enlarged calyx. In peaches, plums, apricots, cher- ries, and other stone fruits, we eat the outer part oi' a peri- carp or seed vessel. Olives belong to this class, and are used green and in the form of oil expressed from the flesh}" pericarp. Coffee is the seed of a stone fruit. In figs we eat a hollow floiver stalky grown pulpj^, and the inside lined with a great number of flowers. Mulberries are clusters of the pulpy flower leaves and stalk of minute multiple flowers. Pineapples are mulberries on a large scale. The strawberry is the receptacle of a flower grown juicy and pulpy, and bearing many one-seeded seed vessels on its surface. Blackberries also are receptacles^ though smaller, covered with clusters of little stone fruits. Rasp- berries are the little stone fruits in a cluster without the receptacle. Many fruits, when dried, are called by different names. Dried currants are small grapes. Sultanas are larger grapes, and raisins are another and larger variety of the same fruit. Prunes and prunellas are dried plums.