1/6 The Boston Cook Book, them stand half an hour in the ice chest. Serve on fanc}" oyster plates, or on the deep half-shell, with slices of lemon. Serve with small squares of buttered brown bread. Ousters on Ice. — Put a rectangular block of clear ice, having smooth, regular surfaces, in a large pan. With a hot brick or flat-iron melt a cavity large enough to hold the desired number of 03'sters. Pour the water from the cavity, and fill with oysters, which should first be drained, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Place a thick napkin on a platter, put the ice upon this, cover the dish with parsley or smilax, and garnish with lemon. The ice is some- times roughly chipped to resemble a rock. If the dinner be served from the- sideboard, individual plates of ice are made. To prepare Oysters for Cooking.—Pour half a cup of cold water over one quart of oysters ; then with clean hands take out the 03'sters separately and remove any bits of shell or seaweed. Serious accidents have often resulted from the presence of pieces of shell. The crabs which are found among the oysters are considered a delicacy and should be saved. The 03"ster liquor is seldom used, as enough comes from the oysters in cooking ; but, if de- sired, it should be strained before using. The 03^sters may then be cooked in any of the following ways. To cooh or parboil Oysters in their Liquor. — Put them in a saucepan without water; stir them, or shake the pan slightl}^; as soon as heated, suflflcient liquor comes from them to keep them from burning. When the edges curl or ruffle, and the o^^sters look plump instead of flat, the}^ are cooked. Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve as a plain roast; or pour on toast, and call it a fancy roast. For Oyster Stew, see page 154. Smothered Oysters. — Put one tablespoonful of butter in a covered saucepan with half a saltspoonful oi lohite pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. When hot, add one pint of oysters carefull}- prepared. Cover closely, and shake the pan to keep the oj^sters from