The Boston Cook Book, 444 Other useful articles are Dover egg-heaters^ large and small; ordinary small wooden spoons and the larger per- forated ones ; a whi}^ churn ; granite saucepans and stem- pans^ holding from half a pint to six quarts; double boilers; 2LwirebashetioYiYYvci^\ 2i potato slicer; 2^fine wire broiler for toast, and two coarser ones for steak and fish ; a set of pastry bags and frosting tubes ; fancy vegetable cutters; a glass rolling-pin; and, above all, a small sharp-pointed knife, made from the best steel, for paring potatoes, turnips, etc., and a set of tin measuring-cups holding half a pint, and divided into quarters and thirds. It is a mistake to have many large, unwieldy dishes. Small saucepans and small bowds are more convenient, and granite or agate ware is much lighter to handle and more easily kept clean than ironware. Buckets are convenient for keeping sugar and small quantities of flour. Glass jars or wide-mouthed bottles are best for nearly all groceries, such as rice, tapioca, meal, raisins, etc. They are easily cleansed, and the contents are plainly seen. They may be kept air-tight, or, if that be unnecessary, old jars not suit- able for canning ma}" be utilized. A refrigerator should be examined daily and kept thor- oughly clean. If a suitable brush cannot be had, a long stiff wire with a bit of cloth on the end should be used to clean the drain pipe. Pour boiling washing-soda water through it every other day, and do not forget to wash off the slime that adheres to the water pan. Fish, onions, cheese, an}^ strong vegetables, lemons, or meat not per- fectly sweet, should not be kept in the same ice-box with milk or butter. Do not become wedded to the idea that dishes can only be washed in a sink. If your pantry or cookroom be some distance from your sink, and have a broad shelf or table in it, take your dishpan to the pantry, wash and wipe your dishes there, and in this way save a few of the unneces- sary steps which soon amount to miles with many weary housekeepers. Never wash a bread-board in an iron sink. The iron