281 The Boston Cooh Booh the 03'ster plant. Shape into rolls. Roll in crumbs^ dip in egg^ and again in crumbs^ and fty as usual. Prepare parsnips in the same way. Turkish Croquettes, — Stew half a can of tomatoes fifteen minutes with one slice each of onion^ carroty and turnip, one teaspoonful of herbs, one sprig of parsley, two cloves, two pep- percorns, one teaspoonful of salt, and one saltspoonful of pep- 'per. Rub through a strainer. Take one cup of the strained tomatoes, one cup of brown soup stock, season highly, and when boiling add one scant cup of uncooked rice. Cook till the liquor is absorbed. Add a quarter of a cup of butter, and steam it, or cook on the back of the stove until the rice is soft. Add one beaten egg and a little cream sauce, or thick tomato sauce, using enough to make it quite moist. When cool, shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. Sometimes it is better to parboil the rice for five minutes, as it is more difficult to soften it in stock than in clear water. Sweet Rice Croquettes, — Steam one scant cup of well- washed rice in one pint of boiling water, or milk and water, thirt}" minutes, or till very soft. Add, while hot, one tea- spoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the well- beaten yolk of one egg, and a little hot milk, if it need more moisture. When cool, shape into small ovals, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumbs again, and fry. Or, after shaping, press the thumb into the centre of each, and put in two boiled raisins or candied cherries, or half a teaspoonful of jelly or marmalade. Close the rice over the centre, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumhs again, and fry. Savory Rice Croquettes. — One pint of cold boiled rice warmed in the double boiler with two or three tablespoonfuls of milk. When soft, add one egg, well beaten, one table- spoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, one fourth of a saltspoonful of white pepper, a few grains of cayenne, and one heaping tahlespoonful of fine chopped parsley. Shape, roll, and fry as usual. Rice or Macaroni Croquettes, — One pint of cold boiled