The Boston Cook Booh 433 butter, and fine flour, the system is kept in a feverish, dys- peptic state ; they become nervous or go into consumption for no other reason than that hfe is burned out by a diet which only feeds the fire and does not renew the tissues. ''Men dig their graves with their teeth; not only by drinking whiskey and using tobacco, but by eating food loaded down with inflammator}' materials." The bilious and gouty should eat sparingl}* of brown meats, cheese, eggs, beans, peas, or food which is rich in albuminoids. A certain amount of albuminoid or nitro- genized food is requisite for tissue growth and repair; more being required for growing persons and the conva- lescent than for healthy adults. Most Americans are in- clined to eat more albuminoid food than is required. It gives a sensation of energy, of being equal to work, which is very pleasant. But when we have " too much of a good thing," more than is needed for repair of tissue, this sur- plus of albuminous material is imperfecth^ oxidized, the blood is laden with waste, and biliousness or gout is the result. Fish gives less albuminoid waste than meat. People who are inclined to constipation should eat whole-wheat, r^-e, and corn bread and mushes, ripe fruit, berries, green corn, vegetables, beef, mutton, poultry, milk, cream, and butter; and should avoid fried or greasy food, hot bread, rich cake, veal, pork, or anj'thing which has so much woody fibre or cellulose that it onl}' irritates the digestive canal., such as the outer bran of wheat, coarse oatmeal, etc. Those with consumptive tendencies should eat whole- some, easily digested and assimilated food, with plentj^ of fat, — not in the indigestible form that it takes when mixed with starch, but as in cream, sweet butter, fat of roast or boiled meat, the fat, but not the lean, of ham and corned beef, oil, salads, corn-meal, oatmeal, etc. The diet of people who are well should be governed largely their age, occupation, and exercise. Adults should have a variety of wholesome food cooked in different ways. Aged people should have a diet more like that of 28