The Boston Cook Book. 12 Milk boils at 196°. Being thicker than water, less of the steam escapes, and the whole liquid becomes hot sooner than water. The bubbles rise rapidly, and, owing to their tenacity, do not burst at the surface, but climb over one another till they run over the edge of the pan. Milk, grains, custards, and any substances which, from their glutinous nature, would be liable to adhere to the kettle, are much more easily and safely cooked in a double boiler, or in a pail within a kettle of water. This is one form of steaming, or cooking over boiling water. In steam- ing, the water should not stop boiling until the articles are cooked. This is a convenient form of cooking many arti- cles which it is troublesome to cook with a dry heat, and yet do not need the solvent powers of water. Watery vegetables are rendered drier by steaming; and tough pieces of meat which'cannot be roasted, are first made tender b}^ steaming, and then browned in the oven. Some- times meat is steamed in its own juices alone; this is called smothering, or pot-roasting. Stewing is another form of boiling or cooking in a small quantity of water, at a moderate heat, and for a long time. The word means a slow, moist, gentle heat. It is an eco- nomical mode of cooking, except where a fire has to be kept for this purpose alone. The long-continued action of a gentle heat softens the fibres; and the coarsest and cheapest kinds of meat, cooked in this wa}^, with vegeta- bles, may be made tender and nutritious. By judicious use of seasoning material, remnants can be made into savory and nourishing dishes. Whether we call it simply a stew, or ragout, haricot, or salmi, the principle is the same, — that of slow, steady simmering, rather than fierce boiling. Fricasseeing (meaning "to fry") is a form of stewing. The term is usually applied to chicken, veal, or some small game, which is cut into pieces, and fried either before or after stewing, and served with a rich white or brown sauce, and without vegetables. Any meat that is quite juicy and not very tough may be first browned on the out- side to keep in the juices, and improve the flavor. Coarse,