127 The Boston Cook Book. When old or strong, they may be blanched or parboiled first. Onions, potatoes, and cabbage should always be scalded to draw out the indigestible qualities. Some object to the use of onions, particularly^ on account of the disagreeable odor; but when added with the other seasoning material, they are so completely^ absorbed in the stock that no trace of their presence can be detected. All or part of the vegetables may be fried first, if 3'ou like. One or two sour apples give a pleasant flavor to stock. Wines or catchups should be added just before serving, as boiling dissipates the flavor. If 3^ou wash to have a dark brown stock, reserve part of the lean meat to brown with the onions. Fry the onions in a little fat, and when very brown remove them, to pre- vent burning, and brown the meat in the same fat. Add the onions and meat to the stock. Take a little water from the stock, and wash off all the brow^ied glaze ad- hering to the frying-pan, as this is the best part. A table- spoonful of browned sugar or caramel (see page 134), which should always be kept on hand, will also give a rich dark color. After the seasoning is placed in the mixture, put the kettle where it will keep at a gentle, steady simmering. Do not let it boil furiously^ one half- hour and not at all the next, but find the place on the range where it will keep at just the right temperature, and then, if you have a steady^ fire, it will need no further attention until ready to strain. It is hot enough if the water just bubbles on one side of the kettle. When the stock has simmered till the meat is in rags and the bones clean, strain at once. Do not let it stand, if in an iron kettle. If you have used a digester or steam- tight kettle, the water will not have lessened much. If boiled in an ordinary kettle, it will be reduced about one half by- evaporation, and may be diluted when ready^ for the table. Strain in this way. Place a stone jar beside your kettle. It should be of a size suited to the amount of stock. Put a colander over the jar (it should fit inside