8 The Boston Cook Booh, check the fire and retard the work. In using the top of tlie stove remember the hottest place is over the fire and toward the middle, not on the front of the stove. When 3^ou have once watched the flame in its passage over the top, down the back, and under the oven, then across, out and up on the opposite side and out into the chimney, you will understand where the greatest heat must be. Boiling. The term " boiling" is often used erroneously in cook- ery. The expressions the teakettle boils," the rice is boiling," ''boiled beef," etc., are all good illustrations of the rhetorical figure metonymy^ but they are practically incorrect. In all cases it is only the water or liquid which boils. No solid can boil until first changed to a liquid. Solids become liquid at the melting-point. Liquids take the form of steam or vapor at the boiling-point. Boiling is the conversion of a liquid into steam by the application of heat sufficient to cause ebullition^ or agitation of its sur- face. Boiling, therefore, as applied to the cooking of solids, is heating or cooking in a boiling liquid. It is one of the most generally used, and abused, forms of cooking. Boiling water, which is really cooked water, is the liquid usually employed. Water, as it is heated from below, ex- pands into vapor. The air of the water and the steam shoot up in the form of bubbles ; as they come in contact with the cold water near the surface, the bubbles collapse, the steam is condensed and descends with the cold water, making a double set of currents, which causes quite a com- motion among the particles. As the whole body of water becomes hotter, these bubbles of steam rise higher and higher before collapsing, and occasion the sound which we call the " singing of the kettle." When the water is sufficiently heated, they rise and break at the surface, causing more or less agitation, according to the rapidity with which they are formed. Water is scalding hot at 150°, or when the hand cannot be borne in it. Water