The Boston Cook Book. 62 Raw Potato Yeast. 3^ cup flour. cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful salt. 3 raw potatoes. 1 to 2 quarts boiling water. 1 cup yeast. First, see that you have at least three quarts of water boiling rapidly. Pare the potatoes, and keep them cov- ered with cold water. Mix the flour, sugar, and salt in a large bowl, and grate the potatoes as quickly as possible, not stopping to grate ever}^ scrap ; mix them at once with the flour, using a wooden or silver spoon, that the mixture may not be dark-colored. Pour the boilmg water directly from the teakettle over the grater, and rinse off the potato into the bowl, using perhaps a pint of water at first. Mix the water thoroughly with the potato and flour; then add, slowly, enough more boiling water to make it the consist- ency of thin starch. The amount of water will depend upon the quality of the flour and potatoes. If it does not thicken, pour the mixture into a double boiler or granite pan, and let it come to the boiling-point, stirring well to keep it from sticking. Strain through a squash strainer and let it cool. When lukewarm (clear through the mixture, not merely on the top), add the yeast. Cover slightl}', and keep in a warm (not hot) place, until light and covered with white foam. After it begins to rise, beat it well sev- eral times, as this makes it stronger. At night, or when well risen, put it into wide-mouthed earthen or glass jars. The next morning cover tightl}^, and keep it in a cool place. Reserve one cupful or more in a small glass jar, and do not open it until ready for the next ^^east-making. Alwa^^s shake 3^east well before using; take your cup to the jar instead of taking the jar to the hot kitchen ; when empt}^, scald the jar and the cover thoroughh\ This is the quickest and easiest way of making j^east, fifteen min- utes being ample time for the first part of the process. It is whiter and looks more inviting than that made with hops. It keeps well two weeks, and makes delicious bread. This receipt can be varied by using boihng hop-water.