The Boston Cook Book, I20 not leak — will better answer the purpose. After breakfast or dinner, do not put away the remnants of steaks or roasts on the platters, but look them over and put by themselves any pieces that can be used again, either cold or in what are called made dishes. Then put all the bones, trimmings, fat, gristle, and everything, especially the platter gravy, which usually flavors the dish-water, into the catch all/' If you have just one bone from a steak or chop, if it be not burned it is worth saving, and in cool weather will keep till you have another. If there be a tablespoonful of any vegetables, a stalk of celery, an egg, baked apple, or a bit of macaroni, put them away neatl3\ You will find a use for them. If you have boiled a fresh tongue, a fowl, a leg of lamb, or a cup of rice, plan to make a soup also, and thus save the water. This economy may be carried to the extreme of saving the water in which cabbages, beans, or potatoes have been boiled, or of keep- ing a fire several hours in a hot da}' only to save a few cents' worth of bone, or of spoiling all the soup b}^ adding a spoonful of turnip already sour; but as a rule we err in the opposite practice. Soups are made from meat, fish, and vegetables, with water or milk; seasoned or flavored with any or every kind of vegetable, sweet herbs, spices, currj^ powder, catchups, aromatic sauces, and with some kinds of fruit. They are served thin and clear, or thickened with vegeta- bles or cereals, and with or without meat. Soups are classified and named in various wa3's, accord- ing to material, color, quality, etc. Soups with stock have meat as the basis. Soups without stock are made of fish, vegetables, and milk. They are sometimes called soup maigre. Soups are named from flie principal ingredient, or an imitation of the same, as Potato, Onion, Beef, Mutton, Chicken, Gumbo, Macaroni, Okra, Ox-tail, Gib- let, Cock-a-leekie, Lobster, Mock Turtle, Mock Bisque, etc. ; or from the color, as Clear, or Amber, Brown, and White ; or from the consistency, as Thin soups and Purees ; or from the quality, as simple Broths, Bouillon, and Con-