The Boston Cook Book. 430 scrofulous disease that have so undermined the health of civilized nations. What are termed the "fancies" of delicate persons, especially children, are often natural instincts, pointing out what is beneficial to the sj'Stem, or the reverse. All children have a fondness for sugar, which should be grati- fied in moderation rather than repressed. Their desire for it is natural, else it would not have been placed in the milk which forms their only nourishment in infancy. But candy, rich preserves, and cake are not the best form of sweets for children. Pure block sugar or maple sugar is better than any form of candy. It should never be allowed be- tween meals, but ma}^ be given occasionally as a part of the dessert. The habit of munching candy between meals destroys the appetite, disturbs the digestion, and is the cause of much illness among children. Children troubled with worms should avoid sugar, preserves, and green vegetables. Milk should enter largely into the diet of children. It con- tains caseine, or flesh-forming material; cream and sugar, which are heat producers; mineral salts, for the bony structure ; and water, as a solvent for all the other materials necessary in nutrition. It should be used with discretion, however; not drunk immoderatel}', but taken slowly as food after the pattern given by nature. Milk as taken is a fluid ; but as soon as it meets the acid of the gastric juice, it is changed to a soft, curd}^, cheese-like substance, and then must be digested, and the stomach is overtasked if too much be taken at once. A large glass of milk swal- lowed suddenly will form in the stomach a lump of dense, cheesy curd, which may even prove fatal to a weak stomach. Under the action of the stomach this chees}^ mass will turn over and over like a heavy weight; and as the gastric juice can only attack its surface, it digests very slowl}'. But this same milk, taken slowly, or with dry toast, light rolls, or soft dr}' porridge, forms a porous lump through which the gastric juice can easily pass, and which breaks up every time the stomach turns it over. Milk should be shghtly