The Boston Cook Book. 52 made yeast to a pint of liquid: a little less in warm weather ; or when mixed at night, when the dough has a longer time to rise; or when made with a ''sponge," or with whole-wheat flour, as the extra amount of gluten in this flour causes it to ferment more rapidl}^ A larger amount of yeast can be used when it is necessarj^ to make bread in a limited time ; but great care must be taken not to use enough to leave an unpleasant yeasty taste in the bread. With compressed yeast, dissolve one fourth of a cake in half a cupful of lukewarm water^ and use as home- made yeast. It will dissolve in one tablespoonful of water; but it is important to have the half-cupful, that the propor- tion of liquid may be the same. Manner of Mixing. — Many people prefer to measure the flour, and add enough of the liquid to make it the desired consistency. The better way is to measure the liquid, and add flour, using more or less according to the quality of the flour, as the measure of the liquid determines the size of the loaf. All the flour may be added at first, and the dough raised in a mass ; or a drop batter may be made with about half the flour, and when this has well risen, the re- mainder of the flour may be added, and the whole allowed to rise again. The latter method is preferable when it is inconvenient to knead at the first mixing, as is often the case in the evening, or when there is any doubt about the quality of the 3^east, as, if the yeast will not raise three cups of flour, it certainly will not raise six. This method is advisable, also, when it is necessary to hasten the pro- cess of bread-making. Dough made by "setting a sponge," as this way is called, requires less yeast, the fer- mentation being more rapid in a batter than in a stiff dough ; and this fermented batter acts like a double portion of 3^east on the fresh flour, raising it very quickly. It is the best way of making bread with milk in the summer, as it may be mixed early in the morning and baked by noon; and as it may be easil}^ watched, it need not become sour. The question of mixing at night or in the morning is one which every housekeeper can best answer for herself.