47^ The Boston Cook Book. Every twinge of pain in neuralgia is the nerves cryinq* out for better blood. Imperfect digestion and assimilation of food are the chief causes of neuralgia. Nutrition, though seemingly complex, is really a simple pro- cess; albumen is changed to fibrine, and fibrine to flesh. The relation of each to the other has been aptly compared to that of the raw cotton, the spun yarn, and the woven fabric. The minute corpuscles in the blood are constantly building up the body, very much as the coral insect builds its structure. The work of each corpuscle is too small for our conception; but, taken in the aggregate, the result is the wonderful growth and renova- tion of the human body. And what is still more wonderful, every organ of the body is on the alert to keep the whole system in natural health. The activity of the vessels which remove the waste particles from the blood is untiring. The kidneys are the scavengers of the body, and stand next to the lungs in renovating it. If too much water be drunk, the kidneys, lungs, and skin carry it off, for fear that the blood should become too watery. We may cease to convey food into the body for days with no evil consequences; but let the removing organs cease operations for a single day, and disease ensues. LIFE AND MOTION.i Circulation of Water. — As a plant grows, water from the soil or air unites chemically with carbon, and forms the woody fibre of the stem, the sugar of the sap, and the starch of the seed. When the plant dies, the water is again set free from its struc- ture and passes into the air. The starch and sugar, also, which the plant yields having been consumed by some animal, the water which they contain passes into the air through the lungs and skin. Thus the same water is caused to revolve in a circle of life-sustaining combinations. Within a single hour it may be in some vegetable structure in the form of sugar; then it may pass into and circulate through some animal system and be discharged as vapor from the lungs, and afterwards become 1 This article is mainly an abstract of the chapters on the Circulation of Matter," contained in ''Johnston's Chemistry of Common Life." It is inserted here as bearing upon the general subject of food, and with the hope that all who read this will read the original.