The Boston Cook Book. 474 Lactic acid, small portions of sugar and digested nitrogenous substances, pass into the blood by absorption through the stomach veins. Thus the contents of the stomach leave it in two directions: a portion is absorbed through the coats of the stomach by the process of osmose, or the passage of fluids through animal membranes; the remainder passes through the pyloric opening into the duodenum and intestines for the com- pletion of digestion. Food from the stomach enters the duode- num in an acid state, and in the intestines is mingled with three alkaline fluids, all containing soda. The pancreatic fluids secreted from the pancreas, digests the fatty matters. It breaks the large granules of oil and fat into a great many minute particles, and converts them into a milky liquid called chyle, which mixes freely with water and passes through the tissues of the intestines into the lacteals. It also changes the starch into sugar, and the sugar into lactic acid, but has very little action on albuminous substances. The bile, secreted from the liver, plays an important part in intestinal digestion, the exact nature of which is unknown. Bile is a complex liquid, consisting of biliary acid in combina- tion with soda. It certainly aids in the absorption of fat, and many suppose its purpose is to lubricate the walls of the intes- tinal canal; from its soapy consistency it effects a smooth, non- irritating passage of the contents. If there be any lack or surplus of the bile, it soon produces an injurious result in the system. The bile is in the intestines, and not in the stomach except when the action of the stomach is inverted, in nausea and vomiting; then the bile is forced up into the stomach in- stead of down into the intestines. The intestinal juice^ secreted in the mucous membrane the entire length of the intestine, combines the active and digestive powers of all the other secretions. The lactic acid is formed so rapidly from the digestion of sugar that the contents of the intestine quickly becomes acidu- lous, and this completes the digestion of any portions of nitro- genous food not fully digested in the stomach. The combined amount of the salivary, gastric, pancreatic, biliary, and intes- tinal fluids secreted daily is twenty-one pints, of which the gastric juice forms more than one half. There are mechanical aids to intestinal as well as stomach digestion. The writhing, worm-like motion, or peristaltic movement, of the muscular coats of the intestines forces the food downward, and exposes all portions of it to the digestive fluids.