The Boston Cook Booh. sticking ; cook two or three minutes, or till plump. Serve on toasted crackers. Creamed Oysters. — Make one cup of thick cream sauce (see page 190), and season with salt^ pepper^ cayenne^ and celery salt. Wash and pick over one pint of oysters^ and parboil until plump. Skim carefully ; drain and add them to the sauce. Serve on toast^ and garnish the dish Tvith points of toast; or the toast may be omitted, and bread crumbs browned in butter sprinkled over the 03'sters. When served in patty shells or in a vol-au-vent^ make the cream sauce thicker. Fricasseed Oysters. — Cook one pint of oysters in hot but- ter., till plump, as directed for smothered oysters. Drain, and keep the oysters hot, and add enough cream to the 03'ster liquor to make one cupfid. Cook one tablespoonful of Jlour in one tablespoonful of hot butter. Add slowly the hot cream and 03'ster liquor. Season with one teaspoonful of lemon juice^ salt., and pepper to taste. Pour the sauce into one well-beaten egg., add the hot 03'sters, and heat one minute. Serve on toast., if for breakfast; or in paper cases, or patties, if for lunch or dinner. Scalloped Oysters. — One pint of solid oysters, washed and drained ; one third of a cup of melted butter; one cup of cracker or stale bread crumbs, moistened in the melted but- ter. Butter a shallow dish; put in a layer of crumbs, then a layer of 03'sters ; season with salt and pepper; and, if you like, add Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, wine, or mace. Then put in another la3'er of crumbs, then 03^sters and seasoning, with a thick \^jqy of crumbs on the top. Bake in a hot oven about twent3^ minutes, until the crumbs are brown. Many prefer to heat the 03^ster liquor and the butter with an equal quantit3^ of milk or cream, and use more cracker. Moisten each la3^er of cracker with the hot liquid. Reserve the larger part of the butter for the top la3^er of crumbs. In this way a larger dish ma3^ be prepared with the same quantit3' of 03"sters. Oysters en Coquille.—Prepare as for scalloped 03'sters. Put one or two very large or several smaller 03^sters in 12