234 The Boston Cook Book. rack in a dripping-pan, with some of the kidney suet on the meat and in the pan. Dredge with salt^ pepper^ and flour^ and bake in a hot oven. Baste as soon as the flour is brown, and baste often. Bake one hour, if liked rare; one hour and a quarter, if well done. Stuffing. — One cup of cracker or stale bread crumbs. Season with one saltspoonful each of salt^ pepper^ thyme^ or marjoram^ and moisten with a quarter of a cup of melted butter. Add hot water if a moist stuffing be desired. Boiled Leg of Mutton or Lamb. —Wipe, remove the fat, and put into well-salted boiling water. Skim, and simmer twelve minutes for each pound of meat. One quarter of a cup of rice is sometimes boiled with the mutton, or the meat may be tied in a cloth to keep it from becoming discolored. Serve with a thick caper sauce poured over the mutton. Garnish with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. Carve slices from the thickest part of the leg down to the bone ; then slip the knife under and remove the shces from the bone. The thickest part of the leg should be toward the back of the platter. What to do with a Fore .Quarter of Mutton. Mutton Duck. — Select a fore quarter of mutton with the whole length of the leg bone left on. Ask the butcher to cut off what is called a raised shoulder, that is, raised from the backbone and ribs, cutting it far up on the shoulder to take in the whole of the shoulder blade, bone, and gristle. You may cut it yourself by removing the neck, the back bones, the ribs, and breast bones, leaving the shoulder blade in the upper part. Then scrape the flesh from the shoulder blade, and separate the blade at the joint. Lay it aside for further use. Remove the meat from the leg bone, turning the meat over, as you would * turn a glove over your hand. Be careful not to cut through the thin skin at the end of the leg. When within three inches of the lower joint, saw the bone off, and saw or trim the bone below the joint into the shape of a duck's bill. Bend the joint without breaking the skin. Wipe the