The Boston Cook Book. A77 change of the gluten, caseine, and all the varieties of albuminous food into fibrine is a gradual process, begun in the lacteals, con- tinued in the circulation of the blood, and completed in the lungs by the oxygen which they receive in breathing. This fibrine remains in the liquid state, owing to the alkaline nature of the blood, and is distributed by the circulation into all parts of the structure, where it gradually coagulates into a netwoi k of tough thread-like fibres, enclosing in its meshes the blood corpuscles, and is changed by cell growth into new tissue, solid flesh and bone. The nervous system is also built and repaired from albumen. Nervous matter is about seven per cent albumen, and is the material by which w^e are put into relation with the external world. By it we see, hear, feel, taste, smell, and are conscious of existence. Each elementary cell or particle of tissue, whether of bone, flesh, or nerves, seems to have a sort of gland-like power, not only of attracting materials from the blood, but of causing them to assume its structure and participate in its properties. The bones and teeth select and appropriate the phosphates of lime, and magnesia, also fluorine. The muscles and nerves take fibrine, phosphates of magnesia, and potash. The cartilages seek for soda; the hair, skin, and nails are made up of silica. Iron is needed in the coloring matter of the blood, the black pigment of the eye, and in the hair. Sulphur exists in the hair, and phosphorus in the brains. The glands of the mouth take the substances necessary to form saliva; those of the eye, the elements of tears; the coats of the stomach, gastric juice; and the liver, bile. Each part of the body has the power to select, from the common supply, the material which suits it best for building and growing. If the conversion of albumen into fibrine be incomplete, the tissues are imperfectly nourished. The formation of tubercles in the lungs is caused by half-formed cells and coagulated albu- men deposited in the lungs. This is caused by a deficiency of the oily matter, which is necessary for the perfect formation of cells and the growth of healthy tissue. Hence for these cases physicians prescribe cod-liver oil. Distilled spirits coagulate the albumen which ought to go into the blood; this prevents the proper digestion of food, and causes one of the great evils resulting from their use. The ner- vous tissue is thus deprived of nourishment, which is one of the causes of delirium tremens.