The Boston Cook Book, 45 ment germs are present in the juice of grapes ; and under the influence of air, moisture, and warmth, the^^ seize upon the sugar already present in the natural fruit juices, and any that may be added, and convert it into carbonic acid gas and alcohol. In the grains, a portion of the gluten ferments and changes the starch into sugar, and then the sugar into carbonic acid and alcohol. In con- verting the starch into sugar there is no change evident to the e3'e ; but as soon as the sugar is decomposed into alco- hol and carbonic acid gas, large bubbles of gas appear, which swell the whole mass. Acetic fermentation is caused by allowing alcoholic fer- mentation to go on beyond a certain limit, or in a tem- perature above 90^^. A familiar illustration of this is the change of wine or cider into vinegar. Now, bread-dough contains gluten, sugar, and starch ; and if the dough be kept warm for a certain time, lactic fermentation will be developed spontaneously^ and the bread made from such dough will be sour and heavy. Alco- holic fermentation can also be spontaneously produced in dough, b}^ making first a batter (as the semi-fluid state is more favorable to rapid chemical change), and subject- ing it to a temperature of 110° for five or six hours ; then, adding more flour, allowing it to rise again, and then baking it. Bread made in this way is called salt or milk- rising's bread. But it does not keep well, and is not gen- erally liked. It is not always convenient to wait for dough to be raised in this manner, so we hasten the process by the addition of some active ferment. Leaven, or a piece of old dough, left to sour, and then mixed with the new dough was formerly used; this produced lactic as well as alcoholic fermentation, and though the bread was light and spong}' in texture, it had an unpleasant sour taste. But since the chemistry of yeast fermentation has been under- stood, yeast has come to be considered the best ferment for producing alcoholic fermentation in bread rapidly, and with no objectionable result.