294 The Boston Cook Book. strainer into the dish in which it is to be served. Keep the dish in a pan of hot water, and use a potato masher or pestle to facihtate the rubbing. Mashed and riced potatoes may be browned by placing the dish in the oven a few minutes. Mashed Potatoes, — To one pint of hot boiled potatoes^ add one tahlespoonful of butter^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ half a saltspoonful of pepper^ and hot milk or cream to moisten. Mash in the kettle in which they were boiled, and beat with a fork until light and cream}', and turn out lightly on a dish. Never smooth it over, as that wiU make it heavy and compact. Potato Balls. — One pint of hot mashed potatoes highly seasoned with salt, pepper^ celery salt, chopped parsley, and butter; moisten, if needed, with a little hot milk or creara. Beat one egg light, and add part of it to the potatoes. Shape into smooth round balls. Brush over with the re- mainder of the egg, and bake on a buttered tin until brown. Be careful not to get them too moist. Potato Puff.—Prepare as for potato balls, making it quite moist with cream or milk. Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs separately, and stir them into the potatoes when slightly cooled. Turn into a shallow baking-dish, pile it in a rocky form, and bake ten minutes, or until it is puffed and browned. Add half a cup of finely chopped cooked meat, to give a variety. Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Cut one pint of cold boiled potatoes into dice, and season with salt and pepper. Yrj one scant tahlespoonful of minced onion in one heaping tahlespoonful of butter, until yellow. Add the potatoes, and stir with a fork until they have absorbed all the butter, being careful not to break them. Add one tahlespoonful of chopped parsley, and serve hot. One tahlespoonful of vinegar heated with the butter gives the potatoes a nice flavor. Creamed Potatoes. —Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes measuring one third of an inch, or into thin slices. Put them in a small shallow pan, cover with milk, and cook until the potatoes have absorbed nearly all the milk. To