The Boston Cook Book. 447 sink. A strainer or any old quart tin pan with small holes in the bottom is a great help in keeping a sink clean. Pour the coffee and tea grounds, the dish water, and everything that is turned into the sink through the strainer first, and then empty the contents of the strainer into the refuse pail. Never use a ragged or linty dishcloth. The lint collects round the sink spout, and often causes a serious obstruc- tion. A dish mop is best for cups and cleanest dishes, but a strong linen cloth should be used for everything which requires hard rubbing. Wash the sink thoroughl}^, flush the drainpipe often with hot suds or soda water, wipe dr}^ and rub with a greased cloth or wnth kerosene. Keep it greased if you wish to prevent its rusting. Cremation is the most satisfactory way of disposing of kitchen refuse, both as a matter of convenience and for sanitary reasons. But if there must be other disposition made of it, keep two pails and use them alternately, cleansing each as soon as emptied. Wash dish towels in cold water, with plenty of soap, and rinse thoroughly in cold water, every time they are used. If left to dry without washing, they will be stick}^ to handle and have a disagreeable odor. If the dishes be well washed, rinsed, and drained, the dish towels will require no rubbing. It is easier to take care of three or four which have never been left to become grimy than to wash one after it is stained and saturated with grease. Towels used in this way may be kept sweet and clean without boiling or drjing in the sun. This method has been proved by years of trial. With a little care in observing these hints, and always using clean, hot soapy water (and not a liquid fit onl}^ for the swill cart), changing it as soon as greas}', dish-washing would be robbed of half its terrors. And after the work is done, il the hands be carefully washed with Castile soap, not with strong washing-soap, and wiped dry, no un- pleasant effect upon the skin will be felt. Some use a little vinegar to counteract the effect of the alkali in the soap.