The Boston Cook Booh. II cannot escape. Then move the kettle where the water will simmer slowl^'. See that the cover fits tightly, to keep in the steam. The water should be salted to raise the boiling-point, and increase the density of the water, and thus prevent the escape of the juices. A small amount of the albumen in the outer surface will be dissolved and rise as scum. This should be removed, or it will settle on the meat and render it uninviting in appearance. If the meat be put in the kettle with the bones uppermost, then the scum will not settle on the meat. In turning the meat do not pierce into it to let the juices escape. It will take a longer time to cook in this way, but the fibrine will be softened, and the meat made more tender and of better flavor, than when kept boiling furiously. Second. Meats are cooked in water to have the nutri- ment wholly in the Uquid^i as in soups and meat teas. Cut the meat in small pieces ; soak in cold water, the longer the better; heat graduall}', and keep hot, but not boiling, until all the goodness is extracted. Third. Meats are cooked in water to have the nutri- ment partly in the liquid and partly in the meat., as in stews., fricassees^ etc. Put the meat in cold water, let the water boil quickly, then skim, and keep at the simmering-point. The cold water will draw out enough of the juices to enrich the liquid; then, as it reaches the boiling-point, the meat hardens, and retains the remainder. Fish is usually cooked in boiling water for the purpose of keeping the juices in the fish. As the flesh of fish breaks easily, the water should never be allowed to boil rapidly. Salmon, mackerel, or any very oily fish, should be put into cold water, and brought almost to the boiling- point quickly, as they have a \^ry strong, rich flavor. A little of this flavor can be lost without injury to the fish. Vegetables, which are mostly starch and water, should be put into boiling water and boiled rapidly, that the small portions of albumen which they contain may be hardened on the surface ; then, if the starch grains are burst quickly, they will absorb the albuminous juices within.