57 The Boston Cook Book, warmer room ; it will be risen by six or seven in the morn- ing. In summer, mix it later at night, leave it in a cool place, and the next morning attend to it earl}^; if possible, by five o'clock. In very hot weather mix early in the morning, and bake by noon. It should never be allowed to rise to the point of " caving in," or settling, or running over the bowl. Even if it does not become sour, it loses the natural sweet flavor of the wheat, and is tasteless and insipid. It should rise in a light, puffy, well-rounded mass ; and if it half filled the bowl at first, it will be readj^ when risen nearly to the top of the bowl, " to cut down," as most cooks express it. This is done by cutting it away from the sides of the bowl, and working it over into the centre with the knife. This releases some of the gas, checks the fermentation, and reduces the bulk somewhat. It will rise again very quickly, and the cutting-down pro- cess can be repeated several times, and the bread will be the better for it, provided the rising does not go too far at any time. It takes but a moment, and should alwa3's be done when the dough is risen sufficiently, if 3'ou are not ready to shape it at once into loaves. If 3'ou do not wish to bake the bread for several hours, it can be kneaded again and put in the ice-chest or cellar. When the dough rises too long, and has soured, it will have a strong, tin- gling acid odor as yow cut into it, and it will pull away from the bowl in long threads, having a watery appear- ance, quite unlike the proper spongy consistency and pun- gent alcoholic odor when it is just right. The practice of using soda to sweeten it, when in this state, cannot be too severely condemned. Chemists sa}' that light sour bread is not unhealthful, although unpalatable to most Americans. Bread in that condition is eaten largely by the Germans. Sour bread sweetened by soda is unhealthful, as it is very rarely that the alkali is whoHv neutralized b}' the acetic acid. Those who boast of never having sour bread be- cause the}" alwa3's keep a bottle of soda dissolved and ready for instant use, should, instead, blush at the fact of such careless housewiferj^ With proper care, bread, even