The Boston Cook Book. 41 from the best quality of wheat, and keeps well. It is con- sidered by many as the best flour for bread, as it makes a whiter, nicer-looking loaf. Haxall flour swells more than that made by the old process, as it contains more of the gluten ; the same measure making a greater quantit}^ of bread than the St. Louis flour. It is, therefore, cheaper in the end, though costing more per barrel. By repeated siftings, this flour loses its gluten, as does that made by the St. Louis process, and consequentlj^ is then inferior as a food. But we can supply by other flours and other food what this flour lacks in* nutritious qualities ; and until the popular taste is educated to demand the amount of nutri- ment contained in bread rather than the whiteness of it, as a test of its qualit}^, it is well to make our fine, white bread from this, which is the best flour, and have it as nearly perfect as possible. There have been many variations of the Haxall process, and all are included under the term 7ieic-process flour. Minnesota. —The Minnesota, or patent-process, flour is now considered one of the best grades. The Washburn, Pillsbury, and many other mills located in Minneapolis are the largest flour-mills in the world, and produce an excel- lent quality of flour, in which a large proportion of the gluten is retained. This Minnesota flour is made from carefull}^ selected wheat grown in the Eed River region, the best wheat-growing section in America. The first step in the process is the breaking off of the germinal point of each grain by what are called ending stones. Then it is sent through corrugated iron rollers, having shallow grooves cut spirally upon them, with rounded ridges between, and the opposing rollers grooved in an opposite direction. The grains are crushed (not ground) ; the starchy parts, or middlings, being quite finely powdered and easily separa- ted from the bran or tailings. After this separation the middUngs are passed through ten bolting-cloths, and then through other and finer corrugated machines, and made into the various grades of flne, superfine^ and fancy flours.