463 The Boston Cook Book. term Beverages; namely, tea, coffee, cocoa, and chocolate. The nitrogenous^principle of tea is theine; of coffee, caffeine; and of chocolate, theobromine. Tea also contains iron and manganese. Drinks^ Beverages^ and Liquid Foods are classified as follows: water, including rain, well, and mineral spring water; mucilagi- nous, farinaceous, or saccharine drinks", including toast water, Irish moss, and barley water, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, and other gruels; aromatic or astringent drinks, including, tea, coffee, choco- late, cocoa, and herb teas; acidulous drinks, including lemonade, raspberry vinegar, and other fruit syrups; animal broths, or drinks containing gelatine, including soups, broths, and. beef tea ; emwZ- s^t'e drinks, including milk; alcoholic and intoxicating 'prinks, including wines, cider, beer, ale, porter, brandy, and whiskey. Water is discussed under Non-Combustible Foods. Receipts for mucilaginous and acidulous drinks, animal broths, and herb teas are given in the chapter on Cookery for the Sick. The aromatic drinks are included in a separate article under the head of Beverages. Alcoholic drinks will not be discussed for want of space. Milk is food as well as drink, and deserves especial consideration. Milk. Milk consists of three distinct substances, which separate from one another after standing awhile, — the cream, curd, and whey. The cream is the carbonaceous part, and forms ten or twelve per cent of the whole. It consists of very small globules of fat, or butter, invisible to the naked eye, surrounded by a fine mem- brane of caseine or albuminous matter. These are dispersed in the milk at first; but as they are lighter than the other parts, they rise to the top of the milk in the form of cream. When the cream is churned, the membrane of each globule is ruptured, causing the butter to cohere in a separate mass. If all this caseine, or albuminous matter, be not removed, the butter soon becomes rancid. The butter has more margarine than oleine, and is therefore hard and firm instead of fluid. It contains butyric acid, which gives it its peculiar flavor. The curd is the albuminous part of the milk, which separates in a solid form whenever milk sours or curdles. This separa- tion is occasioned by the action of the oxygen in the air upon the nitrogen in the caseine, causing a portion of the caseine to ferment. This ferment acts upon the sugar of the milk, and converts it into lactic acid; and this acid acts as any other acid