2 The Boston Cook Book. Cold is also an important matter to be regarded in the preparation of food. Sweet dishes and certain flavors, like hone}^, ices, and custards ; the water, wine, or milk we drink ; our butter, fruits, and salads, — are all more pala- table when cold. Water^ or some other liquid, in connection with heat is necessarj^ in man}^ forms of cookery. Grrains, peas, beans, dried fruits which have parted with nearly all their moisture in the ripening or drying process necessar}' for their preser- vation, need a large portion of water in cooking, to soften and swell the cellulose, gluten, and starch before the}^ can be masticated and digested. In some vegetables and fruits water draws out certain undesirable flavors ; it softens and dissolves the gelatinous portions of meat, and makes palatable and nourishing many substances which would be rendered unwholesome by a dry heat. Air^ or the free action of oxj^gen, upon our food while cooking develops certain flavors not otherwise to be ob- tained. Meat roasted or broiled has a much finer flavor than when boiled, baked, or fried. Toasted bread, thin corn cake baked before the fire, roasted apples, and many articles cooked in the open air, show the benefit of this free combined action of heat and air. Drying in the sun was one of the earhest modes of cookery. Then came roasting before an open fire, or broihng over the coals, and baking in the hot ashes. This last was the primitive oven. As the art of making cooking-utensils developed, stewing, boiling, and frying were adopted. Then, to economize heat, portable ovens were invented ; these were originally a covered *dish set over or near the fire, having sometimes a double cover filled with coals. Afterwards, stoves which kept the fire and heat in a limited space were introduced ; and im- provements have been made in them so extensively that we now have them with conveniences for doing every form of cooking with wood, coal, oil, or gas. Some one gives this distinction between man and other animals : " Man is an animal that builds a fire and uses it