445 The Boston Cook Book, will leave a black mark on the board, which it is difficult to remove. Wash the board on the table where you have used it; use cold water, and scrub occasionally with sand soap. In scraping dough from the board, scrape with the grain of the wood, and hold the knife in a slanting direc- tion, to prevent roughening the surface of the board. Wash, and wipe dr^^, and never let dough accumulate in the cracks. Have one board for bread and pastry, and keep it smooth. Use a smaller board for rolling crumbs and pounding and cleaning meat and fish. A Dover egg-beater should never be left to soak in water, as the oil will be washed out of the gears and the beater be hard to turn ; or, if used again before it be dr}', the oil and water will spatter into the beaten mixture. Use it with clean hands, and then the handle will require no washing. Wipe the wires with a damp cloth immedi- ately after using, dry thoroughlj^ and keep it well oiled. All dishes should be scraped before washing. A small wooden knife is best for this purpose. Bread and cake bowls, or any dishes in which flour or eggs have been used, are more easily cleaned if placed in cold water after using, or washed immediately. Clear up as you work: it takes but a moment then, and saves much time and fatigue afterward. Never put pans and kettles half filled with water on the stove to soak. It only hardens whatever may have ad- hered to the kettle, and makes it much more difficult to clean. Keep them full of cold water, and soak them away from the heat. Kitchen knives and forks should never be placed in the dish water. Man}^ err in thinking it is only the handles which should not be wet. The practice of putting the blades into a pitcher of very hot water is wrong, as the sudden expansion of the steel by the heat causes the han- dles to crack. Keep the knives out of the water, but wash thoroughl}^ with the dishcloth, rub them with mineral soap or brick dust, and wipe them dry. Keep them bright, and sharpen often on a sandstone. The disadvantage and