All The Boston Cook Book. mixed with the lactic acid is powerful enough to dissolve all the albumen and fibrine of flesh food into albuminose, and sets free the starch, sugar, and fat, melts the fat, but does not change either. When there is an excess or deficiency of acid in the stomach, the digestion is abnormal. Pepsin is sometimes used as a remedy for dyspepsia, and is obtained from the stomachs of young, healthy pigs which are kept hungry. As all food which is to nourish the system must be converted into a fluid form, any substances which are taken in fluid form and afterward solidified in the stomach, as blood or juice of flesh, milk, and raw eggs, must be changed again to a per- manent liquid form before they can be absorbed. All nitro- genous matters are not only dissolved by the gastric fluid, but are modified so as to remain dissolved. These changed albu- minous matters are called peptones. Oil plays an important part in these changes, so that, although oil is not digested, it serves a useful purpose in passing through the stomach. The stomach would digest itself were it not protected by a sheathing of mucus and by a continual forming of cells called epithelium^ during the process of digestion. The liquid or watery portions of food enter at once into the circulation by absorption. If too much water be taken with food, it dilutes the gastric juice and retards the digestion; as all that is not needed must be absorbed before digestion can go on. Digestion is also retarded by the presence of very hot or very cold food, as everything taken into the stomach has to be changed to the normal temperature of 100°. A large amount of food overloads the stomach,' distends the muscular coats, and lessens the power of motion. Too little food is also a mistake, as the stomach needs a certain amount of bulk to work upon. Continual or irregular eating is wholly contrary to the intention of nature, since it does not allow the stomach time to rest and to form new cells to secrete digestive fluids. Flesh food that is finely minced, like hash, croquettes, and many entrees, passes rapidly through the stomach without being dissolved by the gastric juice; but when taken in larger pieces it remains long enough to be all digested. The digestive power of the stomach is weakened when there is any undue action in any other part of the body, as in great muscular exertion or in powerful excitement of the brain. Therefore we should eat sparingly at first, when fatigued by exercise or study or when unduly excited, and should rest awhile after eating.