The Boston Cook Book, 3 to cook his food." It is quite important then, as a step- ping-stone to cooking, to learn the properties and manage- ment of a fire. Fire. Fire is heat and Kght produced b}- the combustion of inflammable substances. Combustion is a chemical opera- tion carried on in the air, or the chemical union of the ox3'gen of the air with some combustible bodj^, like hy- drogen gas or the solid carbon^ and is attended with the evolution of heat and light. The heat and the hght come from the sun. With every particle of vegetable matter that is formed by the combined action of the sun and the carbonic acid gas in the air, a portion of the sun's heat and light is absorbed and held fast in it. And whenever this vegetable matter is decomposed, —as in burning wood, coal, or oil, which are only definite forms of vegetable mat- ter, — this heat and light are given out. The amount of each depends upon the mode of burning. Ai7' is composed mainly of two elementary gases, ox3'gen and nitrogen (one part oxj^gen and four parts nitrogen), with a small amount of watery vapor and carbonic acid gas. Pure oxygen is a gas which has a wonderful attraction for, and power of combination with, everj^ other element. If it were everywhere present in a perfectly pure state, it would consume or burn up ever3'thing; but it is diluted or mixed (not combined) with nitrogen, another gas which is incombustible, and which lessens the combustibility of ever3'thing with which it comes in contact. Owing to this dilution, the oxygen will not unite with the carbon and M^lrogen with which it is everywhere surrounded, and produce rapid combustion, except at a high temperature. The temperature at which this union takes place is called the burning-point, and this varies in different substances. Thus combustion is within the power and control of man ; and some extra means are usually emplo3^ed to increase the temperature to the burning-point, — friction, or per- cussion, or the use of some more highly inflammable