56 The Boston Cook Book. with pretty hands can display them there quite as well as with embroidery, etc. ; but the rings and bracelets should be left in the jewel-case. The stitches in tight dress sleeves are not warranted not to break " during this pro- cess. Perfect freedom for the muscles of the arms and chest is absolutely essential to the making and kneading of bread. Temperature and Time for the Raising of Bread. — In winter the water or milk used in mixing should be luke- warm ; and if the flour be kept in a verj' cold place, warm it before using. In summer the water need not be warmed, neither should it be ice-water; the milk should be scalded (not boiled), and cooled. After the bread is kneaded sufficiently it must be made into a smooth round, ball, with no dry flour left on the surface, and put back in the mixing-bowl to rise. If you have learned the knack of scraping a bowl thoroughly, it need not be washed ; otherwise it is well to wash and grease the bowl, that the dough may come out more easily after it has risen. Notice how it fills the bowl, and let it rise until it has a little more than doubled in size. Cover it, not with a cloth alone, as that serves merely to keep out the dust, but with several thicknesses of cloth, and a tightly fitting tin cover. It is important that the air be excluded, as it causes a hard crust to form, which will be difficult to mix thoroughly in the dough at the next kneading, and will also leave dark spots or streaks in the bread. The dough should rise in a temperature of about 75°. Avoid a draught of cold air, or sudden alternations of ex- treme heat and cold. If it be placed on a mantel or near a stove, it must be turned frequently. When necessary to hasten the rising, place the bowl in a pan of warm (not hot) water, and keep the water at the same temperature until it begins to rise. After fermentation has been well established the temperature can be lowered without harm, provided it does not fall below 45°. In winter, bread should be mixed early in the evening; and if the kitchen become very cold before morning, keep the dough in a