221 The Boston Cook Booh Rib Roast — Remove the backbone and ribs. Skewer or tie into a round shape, and prepare as for sirloin. Allow a longer time for roasting, as the meat is in a more com- pact form without the bones. Place it skin side up on the platter, and carve thin slices from the flesh side. The Back of the Rump. — This is the best and cheapest piece for roasting, as the meat is all good and there is not as much bone as in other pieces. It is usually too large for a small famity ; but in cold weather it may be used to advantage, b}^ cutting steaks from the thickest end, using the small end for a roast and the bones for soup. In carving the rump, when the bone has not been taken out, a deep cut should be made at the base, to loosen the meat; then the slices may be cut lengthwise or crosswise. When the family is large and all the meat is to be used, it is well to cut it lengthwise. Should only a small quan- tity be needed, cut only from the small end, and save the tougher parts for a stew. Many think it more economical to serve the poorer parts the first day, as the}^ are then more palatable, reserving the tender meat to be served cold. Roast from the Round, — A slice three inches thick, from the best part of the top of the round, may be dredged with salt^ pepper, and flour, and roasted. Carve in thin slices, the same as steak. It is rather tough, but juicy and well flavored. Yorkshire Pudding, — Beat three eggs very light. Add one scant teaspoonful of salt and one pint of milk. Pour half a cup of this mixture on two thirds of a cup of flour, and stir to a smooth paste. Add the remainder of the mixture and beat well. Bake in hot gem pans forty-five minutes. Baste with the drippings from the beef. This is a more convenient way than to bake in the pan under the beef, and gives more crust. Serve as a garnish for roast beef. Gravy for Roast Beef — When the meat is done, put it on a plate, and keep it hot while making the gravy. Hold the corner of the dripping-pan over a bowl; let the liquid in the pan settle; then pour off all the fat and save it.