399 The Boston Cook Boole. syrup, and boil it gently for ten minutes. This will thoroughly cook the fruit, without destroying the shape. Preserved Quinces. — Use the orange quinces. Wipe, pare, quarter, and remove all the core and the hard part under the core. Take an equal weight of sugar. Cover the quinces with cold water. Let them come slowly to a boil. Skim, and when nearly soft put one quarter of the sugar on the top, but do not stir. When this boils, add another part of the sugar, and continue until all the sugar is in the kettle. Let them boil slowly until the color you like, either light or dark. Another wa}- is to cook the quinces in water till ten- der, drain, and put them in a stone jar in layers, with an equal weight of sugar. Cover closely. In a cold dry place they will keep perfectly. They are lighter-colored and more tender than when cooked in the sj'rup. Watch them during the first month, and if there be any signs of fermentation, set the jar in a kettle of hot water till the fruit is scalded. Reserve the broken or unshapely pieces of quince, cut them in small cubes, and use with Straicherry Tomatoes. Allow three quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound oi fruit. Make the s^a-up, and cook the fruit in it till tender. Skim it out, and boil the S3Tup down for ten minutes. Fill the jars, and seal at once. Equal parts of sweet apple., cooked with the quince but with no extra sugar, can scarcel}^ be distinguished from the quince. Preserved Pineapple. — Remove the skin and all the ej^es, take the pineapple in 3'our left hand, and with a sil- ver fork begin at the stem end of the fruit and fork out small bits. This will leave the core, which is juiceless and tasteless, in your hand. Weigh the pineapple after it is thus prepared, and sprinkle over it three quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound of pineapple. When a sjTup is formed, cook the apple slowly in it until trans- parent, then remove the fruit and boil the syrup a little longer. Or slice the pineapple in half-inch slices, and cut out the core. Cook in the syrup, being careful not to break the slices.