The Boston Cook Book. Sulphur is in fibriiie, albumen, and caseine. There is sufficient saline matter, except common salt, in all the ordinary food we eat and the water we drink. These mineral matters become rearranged and combined before becoming part of the body, but they do not undergo any chemical change or decomposition. They are absorbed with the food, and form for a time part of the animal tissues, after which they are discharged with the secretions, and replaced by a fresh supply. They are absolutely indispensable to the nour- ishment of the body. COMBUSTIBLE COMPOUNDS. CARBONACEOUS FOODS. The first division of combustible compounds is called carbon- aceous because they all contain carbon; or heat-producing^ be- cause by their burning they generate heat. They consist of starch, sugar, fats and oils, gum, and the softer fibres of plants. They are found in vegetables, cereals, fruits, milk, eggs, and the fat of meat. Starch. Starch is one of the most important of vegetable foods; it is found in grains, seeds, and roots, and in the pith and bark of plants. When pure, it is a snow-white, glistening powder. It consists of exceedingly minute grains, varying in size and shape in the different kinds of starch. These grains are cov- ered with an outer skin which is insoluble and unchanged by cold water; but in boiling, this membrane bursts and the inte- rior of each grain dissolves in the water, forming a thick, gummy solution. When cool, it stiffens into a kind of pasty mass. Starchy food is very unwholesome unless properly cooked. It must be mixed with a sufficient amount of liquid, and sub- jected to a great degree of heat, that the grains may swell and burst. This liquid is sometimes supplied by the boiling water in which certain starchy foods are cooked; and sometimes by fat which melts with the heat, as in pastry, or by boiling fat, as in anything fried. When flour or starchy food is mixed with fat, it should be finely and evenly mixed, that the fat may penetrate