The Boston Gooh Book, 401 Canning. • Canning differs from preserving in that the fruit is kept, either with or without sugar, by sealing in air-tight jars or cans, and is not cooked long enough to destroy its natural flavor. Some authorities state that fruit may be kept by putting it in the jars, filling with cold water, and sealing immediately. But nearly all fruits are improved by the addition of more or less sugar. As a rule, all fruits that require sugar when fresh require it when canned. The important points in canning are to have the fruit perfect in shape and quality; the syrup clear, rightl}^ pro- portioned, and boiling hot; the jars hot and filled to over- flowing, and sealed quickly and thoroughly, that no air may be left inside. Have all utensils in order and at hand, that there may be no needless delay. Large-mouthed glass jars with glass covers or porcelain-lined screw covers are the best. Pint jars are more convenient for a small family. They should be scalded, and the covers and rub- bers clean and perfectl}^ fitted. Keep the jars in hot water until ready to fill, or roll each one in hot water just before filling, or place them in a folded towel wrung out of hot water, and put a silver spoon or fork in the jar while filling. A clamp is a great convenience, as the jar may be held in the clamp directly over the kettle and filled very quickly. If without this, have a broad shallow pan, half filled with hot water, on the stove or on a table near by, and place the jars in it while filling them. A wide-mouthed tunnel aids in filling the jars. When the fruit is to be boiled in the jars, place a perforated tin or some flat stones or muffin rings in the boiler, to keep the jars from resting on the bottom. Then the water will be under as well as around the jar, and there will be no danger of breaking. All ripe mellow fruit may be prepared and put at once into the jars. Place the jars in a boiler or kettle of warm water, with something underneath to avoid breaking. Make the s^Tup, using sugar according to taste, or in the proportion of one cup of sugar and one cvp of water for 26