The Boston Cook Book. 223 the meat. Bake in a hot oven twenty or thirty minutes. If you prefer, omit the pork and put the choice pieces of beef fat over the meat. Serve with mushroom sauce. Or brush the fillet with beaten egg^ and sprinkle seasoned and buttered crumbs all over it, and bake thirty minutes. Or stuff the incisions left by the removal of the veins and tendons with any stuffing or force-meat. Dredge with salt and flour^ and bake. Broiled Steak. Wipe, trim off the superfluous fat, and remove the bone. Save the flank end for broiled meat cakes. Grease the gridiron with some of the fat. Broil over a clear fire, turning every ten seconds. Cook three or four minutes, if liked rare ; longer, if well done. Serve on a hot platter. Season with butter^ salt^ and pepper^ or serve with Maitre d'Hotel butter. Steaks should be cut at least an inch thick. Many prefer them much thicker. Sirloin, cross cut of the rump, and top of the round are all good steaks. The round is juic}', but has a net work of tough white fibre, which makes it difficult to masticate. If the steak be very tough, pound it with a meat hammer (a hammer with sharp teeth for cutting) or cut across it several times with a sharp knife on each side. The intense heat will sear the surface quickl}', and prevent the escape of the juices. Many prefer not to remove the bone in a sirloin steak ; but it burns quickly, and is better for the soup kettle if not cooked, and the steak is more easily carved when the bone is removed. Carve in narrow slices, giving each person a bit of tenderloin, fat, and upper part. Broiled Fillet of Beef — Cut slices from the tenderloin. Wipe the meat; grease the gridiron ; broil over a clear fire, turning every ten counts, for three or five minutes. Spread with Maitre d''Hotel butter. Broiled Meat Calces. — Chop lean, raw beef quite fine. Season with salt^ pepper^ and a little chopped onion^ or onion juice. Make it into small flat cakes, and broil on a well- greased gridiron or on a hot frjing-pan. Serve very hot