(2) THE HEALTH FOOD COMPANY OF NEW YORK is now in the tenth year of its existence. Its valuable and important work has been recognized and commended by thousands of physicians, by many writers for the medical and general press, and by multitudes of the sick and suffering who have found health and comfort through its products. It has had many imitators, but it has conscientiously adhered to its original mission of preparing PERFECT FOODS FOR SICK AND WELL Basing its work upon exact science, and being presided over by a scientific man, it has gained the support and co-operation of the scientific world. Prof. Albert N. Leeds, Public Analyst for the State of New Jersey and Professor of Chemistry in the Stevens Institute, has microscopically examined and chemi- cally analyzed most of the Health Food Company's products, and asserts their great excellence. (In our limited space we can only briefly quote from the Professor's published statement, but we are assured that he will cheerfully mail a copy of the pamphlet to any one who shall address him at the College named, situated in Hoboken, New Jersey.) He found in the Health Food Company's Whole Wheat Flour 16.74 per cent of albuminoids, chiefly gluten, thus showing its great superiority over all other bread-flours in general use. Of the Franklin Mills " Flour, said to be made from " entire wheat," he writes: " It contains 8.55 per cent of albuminoids, chiefly gluten, together with a very large percentage of cellulose or finely-ground bran. It is greatly lacking in nutritive elements." Prof. Leeds further testifies that the Glutens prepared by the Health Food Company are richer in the gluten element than any which he has been able to obtain, whether of American or foreign origin, and more than twice as rich as a so-called gluten made by Farwell & Rhines, of Rochester. He also finds by analysis that Robinson's Prepared Barley Flour " contains only 5.13 per cent of albuminoids, while the Health Food Company's barley flour, retail- ing for less than one-eighth as much, contains 13.83 per cent, showing it to be nearly three times as rich in substantial nutriment. The flours and foods of the Health Food Company are nourishing in health and remedial in sickness. Their good work is in the improvement of the blood-making processes, in better digestion, in increased nutrition. Many physicians have testified to the readi- ness of diseases to yield to their treatment when the patients have been sustained by the bland, soluble, non-irritating, nourishing nutriments prepared by the Health Food Company. Its products still stand at the head of the long list of food preparations for infants and invalids, for the sick who seek to recover health and strength, for the strong who desire to remain strong. It has elevated food and its preparation to the dignity of a science, and has sought to render itself wholly worthy of the warm encomiums so ably pronounced by scholars, physicians, and scientists, conspicuous among whom stand the Rev. John F. Clymer, Prof. Austin Flint, and Mrs. Laura Lyman Shipherd, Editor of " Home Interests" in the New York Tribune. Pamphlets, price-lists, and all particulars are freely mailed to all inquirers. Address, Health Food Company, N. E. Agency, 199 TREMONT ST., BOSTON.