The Boston Cook Book. 29s one pint of potatoes add o^ie tahlespoonful of butter^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ half a saltspoonfid of pepper^ and a little chopped parsley. Fried Potatoes, — Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Have a frjdng-pan hot and well greased with salt pork or bacon fat. Cook the potatoes in the fat until brown, then turn, and brown the other side. French Potatoes. — Fr^' as above, pour a white sauce on a platter, and arrange the fried potatoes on the sauce. Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Prepare the Maitre d^Hotel butter ; mix one tablespoonful of butter., creamed, with the whole yolk of one egg. Add oiie teaspoonful of lemon juice ^ one tMespoonfal of chopped parsleyhalf a teaspoonful of salt., and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Cut one pint of cold boiled potatoes in thin slices or dice, or cut raw potatoes into balls with a French cutter, and boil them ten minutes. Warm the potatoes in milk enough to barel}^ cover them. When the milk is nearly absorbed, stir in quickly the Maitre d'Hotel butter, and serve at once. Baked Potatoes, — Select smooth potatoes of uniform size. Wash, and scrub well. Bake in a hot oven about fort}'-five minutes, or until soft. Pinch them to break the skins, and let the steam escape. Serve at once, and never cover, as the steam causes them to become soggy. Franconia Potatoes {Baked with Meat), — Wash, scrub, and pare potatoes of uniform size. Put them in the drip- ping-pan with the meat, and baste when the meat is basted. Or place them in a small tin pan beside the meat or on the grate, and baste with the dripping. Potatoes in the Half Shell., or Souffle.—Wash, scrub, and bake three smooth potatoes. Cut in halves lengthwise, and without breaking the skin scoop out the potato into a hot bowl. Mash, and add one even tablespoonful of butter., one of hot milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff, and mix it with the potato. Fill the skins with the potato mixture, heaping it lightlj^ on the top. Brown slightly.