The Boston Cook Book. 28o boiled rice. Season to taste with salt and pepper^ and moisten with hot thick cream sauce until soft enough to be handled. When cool, shape, roll in crumbs^ then in egg^ and again in crumbs^ and fry. Calf s brains may be parboiled and mixed with sweetbreads or chicken for croquettes. Lobster Croquettes. — One pint of lobster meat^ cut fine. Season with one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of mus- tard., and a little cayenne, and moisten with one cup of thick cream sauce. Cool, and shape into rolls. Roll in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain on paper. Lobster Cutlets. —Prepare the lobster as for croquettes, and spread it half an inch thick on a platter. Cut into the shape of cutlets. Roll in crumbs^ egg, and crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve with a claw to represent the bone. Salmon, or any fish croquettes or cutlets are made in the same way. Clam Croquettes. — Steam the clams. Remove the shells, thin skin, black end, and the dark substance from the soft part. Cut the "leather straps," with the scissors, into small bits. Mix these and the soft part with a thick cream sauce, season with salt and pepper, and shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, dip in beaten egg, then roll in crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot lard. Potato Croquettes. — One pint of hot mashed potatoes, one tablespoonful of butter, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a speck of cayenne, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- ful of celery salt, a few drops of onion juice, and the yolk of one egg. Mix all but the egg, and beat until very light. When slightly cool, add the 3'olk of the egg, and mix well. Rub through a sieve and add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Shape into smooth round balls, then into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, then roll in crumbs again. Fr}" in smoking hot lard one minute. Drain and serve in the form of a pyramid. Oyster Plant Croquettes. — Scrape, boil, mash, and season