462 The Boston Cook Book. different proportions, forming different compounds, — alcohol, carbonic acid, and water. Albuminous substances are the only substances which putrefy. Putrefaction resembles fermentation, and is due to the presence, in large proportion, of the fickle element, nitrogen, and also to the large number of elements combined in all albuminous sub- stances. Complicated machinery is always more easily deranged than simple; and in all chemical combinations, the more com- plex they are, the more unstable. Nitrogen has a very weak affinity for other elements, and forms very unstable compounds. All substances rich in nitrogen, when exposed to the air, soon pass into a state of decomposition, or putrefaction. The oxygen of the air has a greater affinity than the nitrogen for the other elements, and unites with them very easily. In putrefaction the oxygen unites with the carbon to form carbonic acid, and with the hydrogen to form water. The hydrogen and nitrogen unite and form ammonia, and this occasions the peculiar, unpleasant odor of all putrefying bodies. In sub- stances rich in sulphur and phosphorus, the hydrogen unites with them and forms sulphuretted and phosphoretted gases which are very offensive. Therefore, if we exclude the air or oxygen from such substances, we can arrest decomposition. This is done by keeping them in air-tight vessels, thus remov- ing the oxygen from the outside; and by boiling or drying, to remove that which is diffused within. Freezing will have the same effect; also salting or preserving. The salt draws out the moisture, hardens the albumen, and prevents the access of oxygen. In preserving, by the use of a strong solution of sugar, the watery juices are drawn out and formed into a thick syrup which excludes the air. There are some albuminous substances, such as isinglass and gelatine, which are taken as food ; but, strictly speaking, they are not flesli-formers. Isinglass is obtained from the sound, or swimming bladder, of the sturgeon, and is imported from Russia. It is not actually gelatine, but is transformed into it by boiling water. Gelatine is obtained from bones. Ossein is that part of the bones to which their strength and elasticity are due. It is insoluble in cold water, but is slowly dissolved and changed into gelatine by being boiled gently under a pressure sufficient to prevent the escape of steam. Gelatine is also ob- tained from tendons, calves' feet, fish scales, stag's horns, etc. There are other varieties of nitrogenous food which are also carbonaceous. These are commonly included under the general