The Boston Cooh Booh, 204 No, 3. — Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and salt slightlj'. Spread it roughly on a platter; make a nest or cavity for each yolk some distance apart. Season, and bake till the white is brown. No. 4. — Cover the dish with any poultry gravy you may chance to have, or with white sauce^ and have a slice of toast or bread sauted for each egg. Set the platter in the oven over a pan of hot water, and when toast and gravy are hot drop the eggs on the toast, and bake till the eggs are set. Eggs en Coquille.— Cut slices of stale bread in large rounds ; then with a smaller cutter cut half-way through and scoop out the centre, leaving them shaped like n. pate shell, with the cavity large enough to hold one egg. Dip these bread shells in raw egg^ beaten with a little milk., and saute, or fry them in hot fat. Put them on a platter covered with hot white sauce or poultry gravyand serve a poached egg in each shell; or put a raw egg in each and bake till the eggs are set. Half a cup of chopped or sliced mushrooms may be cooked in the gravy. The shells may be toasted if you prefer. No. 2.—Take half a cup of soft bread crumbs^ an equal amount of fine chopped ham or tongue., and a little pepper., salt^ parsley^ mustard., and melted butter. Make it into a smooth paste with hot milk or cream. Spread the mixture on some scallop shells. Break the eggs carefully, and put one in the centre of each shell; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper., Siudfine cracker crumbs moistened with melted butter. Set in the oven, and bake five or six minutes, or until the egg is firm. Or put the bread and meat mixture in a baking-dish, shaping it a httle to hold six or seven raw eggs; cover lightly with buttered crumbs^ and bake till the whites of the eggs are firm. Eggs and Minced Meat. — Chop one pint of cold chicken, ham, or veal fine, and rub it to a smooth paste ; add one table- spoonful of melted butter, one tahlespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and two beaten eggs. If too dry, moisten with a little cream or stock or gravy, but do not