432 The Boston Cook Book. Soups which have in them cream or milk are better for invalids than those rich in gelatine. Cream of Celery and Potage a la Heine are especially suitable. Strong Bouillon is adapted to those suffering from hemorrhoids or any disease of the rectum, as there is no solid waste. Dyspeptics should avoid anything which they (not others) cannot digest. There are so many causes for and forms of dyspepsia, that it is impossible to prescribe one and the same diet for all. Nothing is more disagreeable or useless than to be cautioned against eating this or that, because your neighbor " So-and-so" cannot eat such things. If we would all stud}" the nature and digestion of food, and remember that air and exercise are as essential as food in promoting good health, we could easily decide upon the diet best suited to our individual needs. The diabetic should abstain from sugar and anything which is converted into sugar in digestion, such as all starchy foods, — fine wheat flour, rice, macaroni, tapioca, liver, potatoes, beets, carrots, turnips, parsnips, peas, beans, very old cheese, sweet omelets, custards, jellies, starchy nuts, sweet sauces, wine, and liquors. He may eat oysters, all kinds of fish, meat, poultr}^, and game, soups without any starch}^ thickening, lettuce, cucumbers, watercresses, dandelions, 3'oung onions, cold slaw, olives, cauliflower, spinach, cabbage, string beans, ripe fruit of all kinds without sugar, cream, butter, milk sparinglj^ gluten, flour, oil}' nuts freely salted, eggs, coffee, and cocoa. The corpulent should abstain from fat as well as sugar and starch. A diet of whole-wheat, milk, vegetables, fruits, and lean meat w^ill produce only a normal amount of fatness; while an excess of sweets, acids, spices, and shortening keeps the s^^stem in an unhealthful coftdition. Those who can digest fine flour, pastry, sugar, and fats become loaded with fat, but are neither strong nor vigorous. Thin people with weak digestion should also avoid such food; for thin people are often kept thin b}^ the same food which makes others fat. If they cannot digest the starch,