156 77^6 Boston Cook Book. mer ten minutes. Do not break the fish by stirring it. Add the butter and the hot milk. Spht the crackers, put them in the tureen, and pour the chowder over them. Do not soak the crackers in cold water. Butter crackers will soften easily in the hot chowder. If you wish the broth thicker, stir in one cup of fine cracker crumbs, or one tablespoonful of flour cooked in one tablespoonful of butter. More milk and a little more seasoning may be added to this amount of fish and potato, if you wish to make a larger quantity. When wanted richer, beat two eggs^ mix them with the hot milk, and put in the tureen before turning in the chowder. If added w^hile the chowder is in the hot kettle, the eggs will curdle. Any firm white fish m^y be used for a chowder, but cod and haddock are best. Many use a cod's head with the haddock. The head is rich and gelatinous, and it should always be boiled with the bones, and the liquor added to the chowder. In this chowder you have nothing but w^hat the most dainty person may relish. There are no bones, skin, or scraps of boiled pork. Fish, potatoes, and crackers are all distinct in the creamy liquid, instead of being a pasty mush, such as is often served. For a change, the crackers may be buttered and browned. If a highl}^ seasoned dish be desired, boil an onion, cut into thin slices, with the potatoes ; add more pepper, and either cayenne pepper, Worcestershire sauce, or curry powder. Omit the boihng water, and use onl}^ that in which the bones were boiled, when making a smaller quantity. Clam Chowder. % peck clams in the shells. % teaspoonful white pepper. 1 quart potatoes, sliced thin. 1 large tablespoonful butter. A 2-inch cube of fat salt pork. 1 quart milk. 1 or 2 onions. 6 butter crackers. 1 teaspoonful salt. Clam chowder is made in the same manner as fish chowder, substituting half a peck of clams for the fish. Clams in the shells are better, as 3^ou then have more clam hquor. Wash with a small brush, and put them