The Boston Cook Book. 59 until there are no wrinkles, and the loaves are smooth. Greasing the hands slightly with butter helps. All the flour added at this kneading rises but once, and too much will make the loaf burst out unevenly at the sides. Some careless kneaders merel}^ fold it over, and if it look smooth on the top they think that enough; but their loaf will sometimes have a seam or crack through it, which will cause the slices to fall apart easily. The loaves should come nearl}^ half-way up the pan ; and the same rule follows as for the first rising, namely, let it come to the top, or till the bulk is doubled. Cover with cloth and tin cover, or a large tin pan. The time for rising varies with the lightness of the dough and the temperature of the room. It is impossible to give a definite rule ; but should it rise too far and stick to the cloth, or look " tum- bled in," cut it down, knead, and let it rise again. Never bake it in the above state, as it will be coarse-grained, if not hollow. It is better to bake it a little too soon than to let it rise too long. Rolls and small biscuit should rise in the pans longer and be baked in a hotter oven than the loaf, because the loaf rises in the oven until the heat has penetrated to the centre ; while in the rolls the air cells are very quickly fixed by the intense heat needed to perfect the crust, and fer- mentation is almost immediately checked. This is con- trary to the usual practice; but it is the correct wsij. Many people prepare biscuit for breakfast by letting them rise ten or fifteen minutes in a very hot place while the oven is heating. The}' are often only half baked, and then eaten smoking hot; and those who have never had an}'- thing else think them just right. The evil eflfects of this practice have been the occasion for much of the outcry against hot, or even fresh, biscuit. Such are entirely dif- ferent from the dry, light, delicious biscuit which have had a natural, not a forced, rising, are of the proper texture, have been baked quickly, and allowed to stand at least half an hour before being eaten. The moral of the above is, never try to have raised biscuit for breakfast without