The Boston Cook Book. 43 of a creamy, yellowish-white shade. If it feel damp, clammy, or sticky, and gradually form into lamps or cakes, it is not the best. Good flour holds together in a mass, when squeezed by the hand, and retains the impres- sion of the fingers, and even the marks of the skin, much longer than poor flour; when made into a dough, it is elastic, easy to be kneaded, will stay in a round puffy shape, and will take up a large amount of water: while poor flour will be sticky, flatten, or spread itself over the board, and will never seem to be stifl' enough to be handled, no matter how much flour is used. Haxall flour has a fine granular consistency, and runs easily through the sieve or the fingers like fine meal; while- good St. Louis flour feels soft and oily. It is extravagant to buy poor or even doubtful flour. But, should it have every appearance of being good flour, and yet not make good bread, do not condemn the flour without a fair trial; and be sure the fault is nowhere else. * Every experienced cook has her own tests for flour, and some of them are amusing, if not reliable. The best way is to buy a small quantit}^ at first, and make it into dough ; then, if satisfactor}^, purchase whatever amount is re- quired, and buy this same brand as long as it proves of uniform quahty. The names given to flour are not a sure criterion of the quality. The flour may come from the same growth of wheat, and be ground in the same manner and at the same mill, and yet the miller or the wholesale dealers will brand it diflerently. And the same brand will yary in quality from year to 3'ear. Some of the varieties sold in Boston, and known to be good by personal trial, are Archibald's Extra, Washburn's, Spaulding, Corrugated, Taylor's Best, Brown's Best, Marguerite, etc. ; the same flour may be known in other cities under different names. There are others equally good, and every 3^ear some new brand is announced. It is estimated that one barrel of flour will last one person one 3'ear; which gives a rule of proportion by which to bu}'. Most good housekeepers agree that flour is not improved by long keeping, though