442 The Boston Cook Book. 3"0urself, but of what will contribute most to another's com- fort or convenience," remembering that for the time being utter deference should be paid to the evident arrangement of the house at which you are. This is the safest stand- ard for table etiquette, as well as for good manners ever}^- where. No selfish person can ever be ivxAy poUte. Children should be carefully trained in table manners as soon as they are old enough to come to the table, and accustomed to perfect politeness; then there will be no fear of mis- haps, nor special training needed for " companj^," nor any awkward habits to be overcome in later life. After a meal brush up any crumbs that may have fallen, lest they be trodden into the carpet. Collect the knives, forks, and spoons by themselves. Put any food that ma}' be used again on small dishes, never on the dishes used in serving. Scrape the dishes, empty and rinse the cups, and pack neatly near where they are to be washed. Brush the crumbs from the cloth, instead of shaking it, then fold and put it away carefully. Never pile nice china or am^ other dishes in the dishpan. Begin with a pan half filled with hot soapy water. Keep the soap in a shaker made for that purpose, or in a tin cup; make a strong lather in the cup, and use as needed. Never leave the soap in the dishpan to waste and stick to the dishes. Wash glasses first. Slip them in sidewa^^s, so that the hot water will touch outside and inside at once, and then there will be no danger of breaking from unequal expansion. Wash one at a time, and wipe instantly- with- out draining or rinsing. Wash the silver and wipe at once, as it keeps bright longer if wiped out of hot soapy water. Keep a cake of silver soap at hand, and rub each piece of silver as soon as discolored. Then wash the china, begin- ning with the cups, saucers, pitchers, and least greasy dishes, and changing the water as soon as cool or greasy. Place these dishes in the rinsing-pan with the cups inside up and plates resting on the edges, that the}^ may be scalded inside as well as outside, and drain quickly. Scald and wipe immediately.