126 The Boston Cook Book. In a criticism which so decidedly rejects a prevailing custom, it may be well to remarli that the method of pre- paring soups which is recommended in the preceding paragraph has been successfully proved in the Boston Cooking School for the last three years. The French, who regard skimming as very important in making their Pot- au-feu^ remove the meat as soon as tender, and serve it as bouilli^ or boiled beef. As it has not been cut in small pieces, and is heated quickly, some of the juices are re- tained in the meat, and it is nourishing and palatable. Their Pot-au-feu is more like our beef stew than like soup stock. In the preparation of the stock, the next step is to add the seasoning, which may be used in these proportions: For every quart of water^ one even teaspoonful of salt, two peppercorns or half a saltspoonful of ground pepper^ two cloves^ two allspice berries, one fourth of a saltspoonful of celery seed or a bit of celery root^ a sprig of parsley, a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, and a tablespoonful of each vegetable. Herbs and spices are better whole than ground, as they may be more readily removed by straining. The French cooks use a bouquet of herbs, made with two leaves or blossoms of each herb wrapped in a sprig of parsley and tied securely so that it may be easily removed. A con- venient and economical way is to strip off the leaves and blossoms, break the stalks in tiny pieces, mix them, and keep in a tin box. Use sage, summer savory, thyme, marjo- ram, and bay leaves: a teaspoonful of the mixture (not of each herb) for every quart. The vegetables generally used are onion, carrot, turnip, and celery. It is better to omit them entirely in warm weather, or if you wish to keep the stock more than a week, as the vegetable juices ferment quickly and sour the stock. Wash, scrape, or pare the vegetables; cut them into small pieces for convenience in measuring, as one onion or one slice of carrot is rather indefinite. Keep them in cold water until the juices are drawn from the meat.