338 VARICOSE ANEURYSM. ligatures, one immediately above, the other just below it. The whole field of surgery does not present a more difficult operation, nor one re- quiring greater judgment, nerve, and dexterity.* This is a case, in which, as John Bell well said, boldness is better than caution. " Run your bistoury upwards and downwards, so as to slit up the tumour quickly; plunge your hand suddenly down towards the bottom; turn out the great clots of blood with your fingers, till having reached the bottom entirely, yoib begin to feel the warm jet of blood ; and directed by that, clap your finger upon the wounded point of the artery ; as it has but a point your finger will covei- it fairly, and your feeling the beating of the artery assures you that all is now safe."t After the operation, considerable suppuration, perhaps sloughing of the sac and parts infiltrated ensues. This must be treated on general principles. It is possible that a diffused aneurysm may be mistaken for a rapidly- growing cancer. A man may meet with a blow on the thigh, causing pain and swelling. The swelling does not subside: on the contrary, it continues slowly to increase; evidently infiltrates the whole tissues of the limb; is somewhat elastic, perhaps displays feeble pulsation at parts; punctured with a grooved needle yields serum or blood. The case is supposed to be malignant, and amputation hopeless ; the patient sinks. After death there is found no cancer, but a great collection of blood, fluid or coagulated, amongst all the deep muscles, and proceeding from a small artery that had been ruptured by the blow. An incision would have revealed the mystery. II. The False or Traumatic aneurysm is said to exist when the lymph, by which a puncture in an artery has been united, yields to the pressure of the blood, and dilates into a sac. If the puncture in the artery be small and the blood be slowly effused under a strongly resisting fascia or aponeurosis, a sac may be gradually formed by condensation of the enveloping tissues, and a false aneurysm be the result. This is * In addition to the numerous capital cases illustrative of these doctrines, which are to be found in Mr. Guthrie's Commentaries, a very ably and fairly reported case, which occurred in the practice of Mr. Henry Smith (Med. Times, June 23rd, 1855), well deserves perusal. An old man met with a punctured wound at the upper part of the right thigh; arterial bleeding followed, but soon ceased. A tumour formed, occupying the whole of the front of the upper part of the thigh; it was circumscribed, pulsating, and communicating a thrill to the ear. Its pulsation was controlled by pressing the external iliac artery; the popliteal beat freely. Arterial hsemorrhage returned on the seventh day. Mr. Smith being summoned, most correctly diagnosed a wound of some arteiy, probably the profunda, not the femoral. The external iliac artery was tied. Everything went on well for a month, although the original wound sloughed. The ligature came away, and the wound of the operation healed ; but on the thirty-fifth day from the operation, and forty-second from the injury, the ori- ginal wound bled again. It Med again profusely on the fifty-ninth and sixty- third day (from the injury) ; and on the last-mentioned day Mr. Smith again operated, by enlai-ging the original wound, and at a great depth, and under cir- cumstances of great difficulty, securing the vessel originally wounded, which was either the profunda or external circumfles. In another month the patient was well. f John Bell, Discourses on Nature and Cure of "Wounds, Edinburgh, 1800, vol. i., p. 75.