629 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. been too much fatigue ; all which circumstances must be avoided. (See Section 8.) 2nd. If there is nothing wrong in the urine, the condition of the bladder must be attended to ; blisters to the sacrum ; tonics, or very small doses of nux vomica, may be of service. 3rd. The habit must be attacked ; the patient may be awakened at a certain hour, so that he may void his urine of his own accord: sometimes touchino" the orifice of the urethra with nitrate of silver, so that the flow of nrine may cause severe smarting, is worth trying. The habit not unfrequently results from the patient lying upon his back habitually when asleep, so that the urine is kept constantly upon the over-sen- sitive surface of the trigone. By turning him on the side or face, this may be avoided. Small doses of tincture of cantharides are also recom- mended ; but the writer has more than once seen the malady increased tenfold by the use of this drug in cases in which irritating and too copious urine was the source of the mischief. ill. Paralysis of the bladder may occur under many circum- stances. It may be caused by injury or disease of the head or spine; it is often present in typhus fever—it may be caused for a time by any severe injury, especially of the legs—it generally i-emains for a few days after the bladder has been long distended, whether from prostatic disease or stricture—and it sometimes occurs suddenly to nervous sedentary people, who, if they let their bladder get filled beyond a cer- tain point, find that they cannot empty it. The symptoms of it are, either retention of urine, i.e., that the patient cannot make water at all; or else incontinence of urine, i.e., that the water dribbles away without his being able to hold it, from over-distension of the bladder over- coming the elastic contractility of the neck of the bladder. The diagno- sis of retention through palsy, from retention through stricture, is easy. The retention from palsy comes on suddenly, and thei e is no obstacle to the introduction of a catheter. Yet palsy of the bladder may be combined with spasmodic stricture. Treatment.—The catheter, if required ; in pure palsy, the muriated tincture of iron : cubebs, buchu, strychnine. Benefit has been obtained by passing shocks of electricity from the pubes to the sacrum. F. 21, 180, &c. Sloughing of the entire mucous lining, with a layer of the muscular coat, has been lecorded by Mr. Spencer Wells, Mr. Bai-nes, and Dr. Martyn. In each case there was retention of urine after severe labour ; in Dr. Martyn's the slough came away as an entire cast of the inner surface a month after the labour.* IV. Incontinence and Dribbling op Urine.—This is a symp- tom that requires particular notice; because in nine cases out of ten it happens, not because the patient cannot hold his water, but because he cannot ^rtss it,—-either from stricture or enlarged prostate, or palsy of the bladder. For it must be noticed, that in either of these cases, so soon as the bladder becomes full, a little urine begins to dribble away through the urethra—and besides the patient may perhaps be able to squeeze out a little by straining with his abdominal muscles, and may * Obstetrical Trans., vol. v. p. 188.