WOUNDS. 135 it should be put on in one layer, once for all ; not in repeated layers, else those which are put on afterwards will drag off those applied first. Thick mucilage sometimes is used for the same purpose; so is Friar's balsam. Sutures —In all extensive wounds, and most especially in wounds of the eyebrows, eyelids, ears, and other parts which it is most important to make to unite neatly, and in which plasters would be insufficient, sutures, or, in plain English, stitches, should be employed. Yet, unless for special reasons, the surgeon should not employ them in order forcibly to drag the lips of a gaping wound into contact, or they will give great pain, and his intentions will be frustrated by their speedily ulcerating. They may be removed in from three to six days, or sooner if violent irritation comes on. Five species of suture are enumerated in the old authors. 1. The Interrupted Suture is thus made. A needle armed with a single ligature is passed through the skin on one side of the wound from without, inwards; then at a cor- responding part through the upper lip/ro/7i within, outwards. Then the ends of the ligature (which may be made of silk, or hempen thread, well waxed) are to be drawn together, without, however, any great straining, and are to be tied tightly in a double-reef knot. Silver, iron, or leaden wire is sometimes used for sutures, and has this advantage, that it does not absorb fluids, and so cannot be con- verted into a seton; but it is apt to cut or tear when pulled out. As many of these stitches are to be made as are necessary ; half or three-quarters of an inch is a proper interval. 2. The Twisted Suture is made thus:—The edges of the wound are to be placed accurately in contact, and a sufficient number of pins to be passed through both of them at convenient distances. The first pin should be placed at any loose angle which there may happen to be. When all the pins have been introduced, and the parts are accurately adjusted, the middle of a long piece of silk is to be twisted around the uppermost in the form of a figure of 8. Then the two ends are to be brought down and twisted round each of the other pins successively in like * m-,, , , - ■ manner : and, lastly, are to be secured by a knot. The pins were formerly made of silver, with steel points which were removed after they were inserted, Fig. 2 (p. 34) ; but fine steel needles with lancet points, Fig, 4 (p. 34), are now used instead. After they are inserted their points must be cut off with pliers. 3. The Glovers', or Continuous Suture, is nothing more than the