204 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. ation, or inflammation, or suppuration may accompany, but are accidental. Tiie neighbouring chain of lymphatic glands enlarge and harden, but are not usually painful, nor tender, nor adherent. The discharge is, as Mr. Lee pointed out, not copious and purulent, but scanty, serous, containing epithelial debris instead of pus globules. This sore is most generally single. After it has acquired its characteristic induration, it seems to render the system invulnerable to infection from a fresh source. Hence it does not mul- tiply, and cannot be inoculated on the same subject;—except, as Mr. Lee has shown, either before the characteristic hardness is pro- duced, or else after it has been irritated and made to suppurate, when its secretion seems more actively contagious. It heals sponta- neously in about six weeks or less; but does not heal absolutely. It is converted into a cartilaginous lump, prone to break out afresh, or sometimes into a wart or vegetation. Constitutional symptoms follow. Causes.—The chancre is produced by infection from a syphilitic person, and of course is most common on the genitals, after impure connection. It is liable to occur on the lingers of the accoucheur or midwife who attends a syphilitic woman in labour. It may occur on the lips or tongue, from libidinous sexual practices, from kissing an in- fected person, or from drinking out of the same cup or spoon. Glass- blowers have conveyed it from one to another's lips. It may be commu- nicated by foul linen, sheets, seats of privies, &c. It may arise on the nipples by infection from the mouth of a sucking child, and vice versa ; and probably on a child's nates from the hand of a nursemaid. It may also be communicated by inoculation, and especially by vaccination if the vaccine lymph be taken from a syphilized person.* W7iat is the poisonous agent ?—1st. The secretion from a pri- mary chancre. 2ndly. The secretion from any of the forms of secondary eruption or ulcer, mucous patch, &c. Tertiary symptoms are also inoculable. 3rdly. The blood of a syphilitic patient. Ex- periments on this point have been made, with negative results, by Diday, and others ; but Waller and Pellizari have each proved the fact.f 4thly. Not only are the secretions from secondary symptoms inoculable under certain circumstances, but the blood, and the secre- tions of inflamed mucous surfaces in syphilitic patients, even where no distinct form of secondary disease is known to exist, may be the means of communicating the disease."§ Hence a woman need not have a chancre herself, to cause one in a man; but any vitiated or unhealthy secretion, vaginal, uterine, &c., may do it; and so conversely may any urethral or other discharge from a syphilized man. 5thly. There can be no doubt but that the lymph of the vaccine vesicle may be the vehicle; and more especially if it have been irritated or made to bleed, * For cases, see H. Lee, Lectures, pp. 188,204, 260; see also the other writers quoted at pp. 193 ; 194 of this work. t See Bumstead, p. 4 5G, for a good resume of this matter, and for one of the completest accounts of venereal diseases in general. J See Bumstead on Venereal Diseases, Philadelphia, 1864, p. 465. § H. Lee, op. cit., p. 262.