LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 509 will get a view of his epiglottis, and at last will be rewarded with a view of the aperture of the glottis, and would do well to study the natural appearance of the parts, and their movements in swallowing, and in uttering the broad A. IV. Rhinoscopy.—By elevating the soft palate with a hook which is part of the laryngoscopic apparatus, and introducing a mirror with its face upwards, the practitioner may get a view of the posterior apertures of the nares, tubinated bones, and adjacent parts. This inspection is particularly useful in the diagnosis of polypi and other tumours, p. 477. y. The Use op the Laryngoscope is twofold: in diagnosis, and in the application of remedies. In diagnosis it reveals the pre- sence of foreign bodies: it shows whether the muscles of the larnyx are paralyzed or no; and whether either or both vocal cords are moveable; whether the surface is smooth or ulcerated; whether swelled or not from inflammation and oedema; and whether tumours exist or not. As for the application of remedies, that one which seems almost universally applicable, to this and to all other cases where it is required to deaden an over-sensitive surface to astringe and diminish over-secretion or oedema, and to modify the surface of ulcers, is the strong solution of nitrate of silver twenty grains to the ounce. This is conveniently applied by means of a brush bent at an angle, and made by Weiss. Foreign bodies can be seen, seized, and extracted, oedema scarified, tumours removed with the laryngeal ecraseur, and galvanism applied by means of a conductor invented by Dr. Morell Mackenzie. SECTION IV.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX AND TRA- CHEA, INCLUDING TRACHEOTOMY, AND THE VARIOUS CIRCUM- STANCES WHICH REQUIRE IT. I. Foreign Bodies in the Larynx and Trachea.—(a) It some- times happens that a person who is busily laughing and talking during a meal, suddenly rises from table, attempts to put his finger into his throat, speedily turns blue in the face, and then drops down dead. This arises from a piece of food getting into the rima glottidis; a thing liable to happen if a sudden inspiration be made through the mouth, as in laughing, when the mouth is filled with food. It rarely happens that the surgeon arrives in time to do any good; but if he should be promptly on the spot, he ought to search the pharnyx with his fingers, to ascertain whether the obstructing substance can be removed ; and if not, he ought to open the air-passage immediately ; and to pass a probe up into the larnyx through the wound, so as to push the ibreign substance back into the mouth. (6.) It may be impacted in the ventricles of the larnyx or upper part of the trachea; in which case it will probably produce violent spasmodic cough and difficulty of breathing, together with a fixed pain referred to one particular spot—a croupy sound during respi- ration, which may be heard by the stethoscope most distinctly at the seat of that pain ; loss ot voice, and probably an acute attack of in-