STRANGULATED HERNIA. 562 and if its contents were united to the sac by firm and broad adhesions, they should not be disturbed. But if the adhesions are recent, or very thin and slight, they may be cautiously torn or divided, and the bowel be returned. 3. If the intestine is mortified, which will be known by the softened green or ashy spots, the mortified parts should be slit open, and at- tached by sutures to the skin on each side, the stricture divided, and the patient left to recover with an artificial anus. Again, if a large portion of intestine, which has been long irreducible in an elderly per- son, appear extremely dark and advanced towards sphacelus, so as to rendei- it doubtful whether it would be capable of performing its functions when returned, it has been advised to make an opening into it, and So afi'ord an outlet for its contents through an artificial anus; but such a proceeding must not be rashly resoi'ted to. 4. If the omentum is gangrenous, or if it is thickened and indurated, it would, if returned, excite dangerous irritation of the peritonseum. In this case some surgeons advise it to be left to granulate in the sac, or to cut it off close to the neck of the sac, and leave it there as a plug to prevent further protrusion. Macfarlaue and others, on the contrary, recommend it to be cut cleanly off, and all the vessels to be tied with fine silk ligatuies, and the end to be then passed quite into the abdo- men, breaking up any adhesions about the neck of the sac, if necessary; thus avoiding the dragging pains and colic which are liable to occur if a portion of the omentum or intestine is fixed. It is better, however, to tear slowly with forceps through the healthy part of the omentum, so that the numerous small vessels may be so stretched and twisted by the process that few, if any, ligatures may be required. 5. But it may happen that there may be a portion of intestine con- cealed within the omentum, and completely enveloped in a kind of sac formed by it. This is especially liable to be the case in the umbilical hernia. Therefore, to use the words of Mr. Prescott Hewett, " when the hernial sac appears to contain thickened omentum only, the omen- tum ought to be drawn out and carefully examined, to see that it does not form a sac containing a portion of intestine."* If it is thickened and firmly united to the neck of the hernial sac, throughout its whole circumference, an incision should be carefully made through it; bearing in mind that it is often extremely thick, and that the intestine may be firmly adherent to its inner surface. In fact, as Mr. Hewett says, the surgeon ought carefully to "examine every portion of omentum which is in a hernial sac, so as to ascertain that no knuckle of intestine is contained within its folds, before it is returned into the abdomen, left in the sac, or removed altogether." Division of the Stricture external to the Sac.—Petit, Aston Key, Luke, and other eminent surgeons have recommended that the stricture should be released without opening the sac itself. The argument in favour of this proceeding is, that less injury is inflicted ; that there is no rough hj\ndling and exposure of the intestine; and that the case is * Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii.