EXUDATION OF FIBRINE AND ADHESION. 49 lations. The deeper layers are, as to structure, converted into fila- mentous tissue, and as to chemical nature into gelatine, whilst the more superficial are still spherical and albuminous ; and whilst the very surface degenerates into the ci-eamy liquid called pus. This is the mode in which open wounds (or wounds which the skin will not cover) generally heal in the human subject; but it is an imperfect mode; because granulations are extremely liable to be diseased, because they entail a great waste of material which escapes in the form of pus, and because the scar is always larger than in the case of a wound healing by the primary reparative process. When two surfaces covered with granulations are made to unite, the union is said to be by secondary adhesion or by the second intention. 2. A second example is furnished by the acute inflammation of serous membranes; as pleurisy, which gives rise to the adhesions which so commonly bind the lungs to the inside of the ribs. Under rheumatic inflammation, the heart may be glued to the pericardium ; in syphilitic iritis the anterior chamber of the eye may be filled with lymph. After injuries, the adhesions produced by inflammation of the pleura and peritonaeum are of service in preventing the spread of exuda- tion or of extravasated matter. Mucous membranes, as we said at p. 36, are not commonly con- sidered liable to adhesive inflammation, because the lymph effused is generally cast off, and does not become adherent or organised. Yet fibrinous flakes are common on inflamed mucous membranes; and if two abraded and inflamed mucous surfaces are placed in apposition and left undisturbed, they may adhere ;—as sometimes happens in the vaginae of female children;—in the os uteri and Fallopian tubes of prostitutes, and in the ureters and biliary ducts when abraded by the passage of calculi; and Mr, Hancock has shown the existence of organised lymph in the canal of the urethra, in cases of stricture. 3. When a natural reparative process has failed, the surgeon often excites adhesive inflammation, as the basis for another effort at repair. (See False Joint.) 4. Separation of fibrine may take place within the heart or vessels. Granulations, if healthy, and proceeding towards a cure, are small, pointed, and florid ; they bleed if wiped, and are not very tender. But they are subject to many disorders; being sometimes pale, bloated,and oedematous ; sometimes degenerating into a pseudo-mucous membrane; sometimes breaking up suddenly, and being dissolv^ed into a sanious fluids When, however, the case proceeds favourably, the undermost are developed into fibro-cellular tissue, those on the sui face form them- selves into cuticle, and so the wound is healed. Cicatrization.—This process of healing, or cicatrization, is attended with an absorption of inflammatory effusion in the vicinity of the wound, and a contraction of its margin, so that the wound becomes much-smaller before any new cuticle is formed. Its edge then begins to look smooth and bluish, and a thin pellicle of new cuticle gradually spreads from the edge in a converging circle till the wound is closed. D E