BURNS AND SCALDS. 164 This contraction may, perhaps, be sometimes successfully opposed by keepiiig up extension with a splint, or, if the neck is the part burned, by making the patient wear a stiff collar, and by frequently moving the part during cicatrization ; and the cicatrix may be lubricated with pure oil. If the fingers are severely burned, lint should be interposed be- tween them, and they should be kept apart as much as possible, although it will be very difficult to prevent them from adhering toge- ther.* In burns of the head or face, the edges of the ulcer may be drawn asunder by strips of adhesi\'e plaster. When any of the orifices of the body are involved, they should be kept dilated with canulae, or plugs of oiled hnt. But if, notwithstanding every precaution, the cicatrix contracts, and produces deformity, or prevents any necessary motion, the knife should be resorted to. Sometimes the whole cicatrix may be extirpated, the wound being treated by water-di-essing, and the parts kept in a proper position during the cui'e. Sometimes an incision may be made in the sound skin on each side so as to form gaps, which will be filled with new and more pliant cicatricial tissue. Sometimes it will be useful to divide the cicatrix transversely by several incisions, at the same time dissecting it up from the parts beneath if it firmly adheres to them. Mr. Skey's plan is to make a multitude of small transverse cuts through the cicatrix in the quincunx arrangement, which on healing inci-ease the area of the total cicatrix. But it must be remembered that operations which interfere with large portions of skin are very dangerous to life; and that the subcutaneous method should be employed where practicable. And, lastly, there is a plan which has been adopted with success by Dr. Mutter, an American sur- geon, of dividing the cicatrix, dissecting it up, where adherent, and even dividing any muscular fibres in order to liberate the parts completely, and then filling up the gap by means of a Taliacotian operation ; that is, by transplanting a portion of sound skin from some neighbouring part.f In a very aggravated case of contraction of the cicatrix of a sevei'e burn of the whole surface of skin on the back of the wrist, hand, and forearm, in a young girl, drawing the hand completely on to the forearm and rendering the limb totally useless, Mr. Wood, of King's College Hospital, transplanted a flap of skin from the surface of the abdomen, with such complete success as to restore entirely the use of the hand, with comparative small deformity. This complete trans- plantation from a remote part has not before been attempted by modern surgeons, apparently from the want of success in the attempts of the older surgeons to establish the similar operation of Taliacotius for the restoration of a mutilated nose. In attempting such an operation, great attention and care are required in the selection and adjustment of the flap, and in the easy fitting of the apparatus for retaining the parts about to be united in perfect apposition. *• Vide Part IV. chapter xxiv. f Vide Earle's Lectures on Bums, Lond. 1832; Dupuytren, Clinique Chirurg.; Miitter on Deformities from Burns, in the American Jouni. of Med, Sc., July, 1842. Several successful cases by Mr. Parker, of Bridgewater, are quoted in Kanking's Half-yearly Abstract, vol. ill. p. 106.