325 DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE. the quadriceps at its insertion into the patella ; and the patient died in eleven months, in consequence of his wounding the joint. Mr. Mayo relates a similar case, in which he succeeded in overcoming the difficulty by bending the knee to the utmost, so that the patella was drawn out of the groove in which it was lodged.* The patella is dislocated upwards after rupture of its tendon by the extensor muscles. This must be treated as fracture of the patella; but it is very rare. Partial Dislocation of the Semilunar Cartilages.—During sudden twists of the knee-joint, the semilunar cartilages may slip out of their proper position, and become wedged in between the tibia and femur. The symptoms are, sudden extreme sickening pain, and inability to stand, or to straighten the limb, with a depression on the side of the joint affected. This accident generally happens to people of relaxed habits, and when it has once happened is very liable to recur. In a case dissected by Mr. Fergusson, the external semilunar cartilage was found to be torn from its connexion with the tibia, except just at its extremities. The best way of restoring the part to its place, is to place the patient on the affected side, with the knee bent, and rotate the tibia gently in its axis. Should this not succeed, says Mr. Vincent, " the only thing is to keep the patient in bed, and in some of his slumbers all will come right" of itself. The patient should put on an elastic knee-cap before he moves about. Dislocation of the Head op the Fibula is of very unfrequent occurrence ; except as a consequence of relaxation of the ligaments from weakness, which must be treated by cold douche, stimulating lina- ments, and bandages, with a pad to press on the head of the bone, or by rheumatic effusion into the joint cavit)'-; to be treated by iodine paint, bark and iodide, &c., F. 94. There are two cases of it, caused by violence, in Sir Astley Cooper's work; the head of the bone could be felt to pass more backwards than natural, and could be moved by the finger. The pad of a tourniquet was employed to keep it in its place. X. Dislocation of the Ankle is generally caused by jumps from great heights or from carriages in motion, and may occur in four direc- tions, each of which is usually complicated with fracture of tibia or fibula, or both. 1. Dislocation of the tibia inwards Is the most common. It is attended with fracture of the lower third of the fibula, and may be easily known by the sole of the foot turning outwards; its inner edge turning downwards ; and great projection of the internal malleolus. 2. Dislocation of the tibia and fibula outwards is attended with fracture of the internal malleolus, and may be known by the sole of the foot * Three cases are related in Sir A. Cooper; and a similar one in Sir Gr. Bal- lingall's Military Surgery. Mr. Vincent says, that the obstinate resistance which this dislocation offers is owing to the fact that when the limb is straight, the extensor muscles, which are the retaining force, are in their position of strongest action; when the knee is bent they are in their weakest position. 0^. cit. p. 74.