NEUROMA. 364 II. Partial Division.—If a nerve is partly divided, leaving some fibres on the stretch, as sometimes happens in venesection, very dis- agreeable consequences may ensue, such as immediate severe pain, recurring in paroxysms, and shooting in the course of the nerves ; violent spasms, or palsy of the limb; fits of eplipesy ; and great dis- order of the digestive organs. The same symptoms may also ensue if a nerve has been bruised, or compressed, or stretched; or if it it has been divided, and its extremity has become implicated and compressed in a cicatrix. This not unfrequeutly happens after amputation, and pro- duces excruciating pain, with spasm and retraction of the muscles of the stump, causing it to become conical. Treatment.—If these symptoms come on immediately after a wound, so that it is probable that a nerve has been partly divided, an incision may be made so as to divide it completely. If, however, they ap- peared whilst a wound was healing, the best plan is to remove the cicatrix entirely. But it unfortunately happens, that neuralgic pains, when once established, do not always cease, even when the cause which produced them at first is removed. Very disagreeable consequences, in the shape of palsy, or numbness, or spasm, are sometimes caused it" a nerve is subjected to pressure, as, for instance, the pressure of crutches on the axillary nerves; or from a blow, such as people often meet with on the ulnar nerve above the elbow; or from a violent stretch. Leeches, blisters, and the application of mercurial ointment, or of opiate or belladonna plasters, or painting with tincture of aconite, are the chief remedies. III. Rheumatic Inflammation.—In a recent case, thorough pur- gation by calomel, colchicum, rhubarb, and carbonate of potass, may cut short the attack. In chronic cases, the iodide of potassium, guaiacum, and other anti-rheumatic remedies, must be used according to circumstances. Lumbago and sciatica are thus treated. IV. Neuroma signifies a fibrous tumour developed in the sheath of a nerve. According to Dr. Van der Byl and Dr. Snow Beck it ori- ginates in an exudation around the tubules of a single fasciculus, within the neurilemma. This becomes organized into a fibrous or fibroid tumour, which enlarges and obliterates the adjacent nervous tubules by its compression.* Such tumours are smoothly globular or oval, and may vary from the size of a pin's head to that of an orange. Often they exist in great numbers in the nerves of one patient; and are painless ; whilst, as we notice in the Section on Tumours, p. 102, one single small fibrous or cartilaginous tumour, which has no visible connexion with any nerve, may be the seat of the most excruciating pain. Yet these tumours, like any other morbid condition that may exist in or about the trunks of nerves, may produce every conceivable symptom of nervous irritation. Iodine paint, externally, and iodide of potassium, internally, may be tried; but if they fail, as they most likely will, any tumour which is troublesome must be extirpated, pro- * See E. W. Smith, of Dublin, on Neuroma; Dublin, 1849; Van der Byl, Pathological Trans,, vol. vi.