374 FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. concussion. 2. On the forcing in of portions of bone so as to com- press the brain, or on internal haemorrhage. 3. On the complication with scalp wound. 4. On the situation. 5. On the inflammation excited subsequently. 1. Simple Fracture with Depression may be ascertained by a cai'eful examination of the shaved scalp, when, if it exist, there will be felt a depi-ession at one part, with a corresponding edge or projecting ridge near it. Sometimes a coagulum of blood or other effusion under the scalp conveys the feeling of a sharp elevated ridge of bone: it may be known, however, by its yielding to firm pressure with the finger, and by observing that no part of the bone is helow its natural level, at the same time that the edge of the apparent depression is raised in a rim above the level of the surrounding skull. Sometimes, too, an irregular conformation of the sutures and Wormian bones may be mistaken for fracture. Moreover, a mere driving in of the outer wall of the frontal sinuses or mastoid cells, or any place where the diploe is large, is not necessarily attended with injury to the brain. Occasionally both tables may be driven in upon one of the large venous sinuses, or between the cerebral hemispheres without compressing the brain substances. Treatment.—1. In a case of simple depressed fracture, if there are no symptoms of compression, and if the patient is conscious and rational, he should be bled, purged, and kept under the strictest antiphlogistic )-egimen ; and then, perhaps, recovery may be completed without the slightest appearance of compression, and inflammation be averted. Even if there be slight symptoms of compression, the same plan is to be adopted. In children, whose bones are soft and thin, great indentations and depressions may be produced without fracture. They are to be treated antiphlogistically ; and if the bowels are kept well open, they may not cause any bad symptom whatever, and the bone may rise in time to its proper level, 2. If the fracture be compound, in like manner, as a general rule, it is better not to trephine, unless there are symptoms. If comminuted, and if splinters are sticking into the brain or its membranes, the bone must be elevated. If possible, it should be done with the elevator alone. But if one piece of bone is wedged in under another, a small aperture should be made with the trephine, or Hey's saw, in order to make room for employing the elevator. If any pieces of bone are perfectly loose and detached, they must be removed ; but not if they have a pretty good adhesion to the pericranium or dura-mater. 3. Fracture of the Inker Table.*—This part may be splin- tered extensively by some injuries which do no great damage to the * Mr. W. F. Teevan, of the Westminster Hospital, has made numerous experiments which show that the aperture of entry is caused by the penetrat- ing body only; and that the aperture of exit is larger, inasmuch as it is made by the penetrating substance plus the fragments of bone driven out of the proxi- mal table and diploe.—Experimental Inquiries on Wounds of the Skull. Brit, and For. Med. Chir, Rev., July 1864,