CANCER. 118 4. Colloid, or Gelatini-form, or Alveolar Cancer, is a peculiar growth, composed of a stroma of thiu membranous or fibrous mate- rial, so arranged as to form circular loculi, resembling in this respect the pulmonary- tissue, and filled with globu- lar masses, composed of con- centric layers of that struc- tureless material which we have described as colloid matter. The loculi, or rounded cells, are visible to the naked eye on a section, and may vary from the size of a pin's point to that of an egg. The col- loid matter seems to differ much from other animal products, and to resemble the jelly of the um- bilical cord, or mucus, or the tissue of the acalephaj and medusae. Its animal basis is said to contain only 7 per cent, of nitrogen. The rounded masses of gelatinous matter contain granules and nuclei; and the larger masses contain abundance of smaller ones, into which their substance appears to have divided and developed itself after the manner of the growth of cartilage. The gelatinous matter is arranged around these granules and nuclei after the manner of cell-growths. The question now arises, what is growth ? is it cancer ? Most pathologists consider it as cancer, and Lebert describes some, though not all, of the nuclei, as having the characters of cancer-nuclei. The pecu- liar chemical composition of the mass, however, seems to claim for it a place by itself. Its most ti-equent seat by far is the peritonaeum and abdominal vis- cera, yet it is found in the female breast and elsewhere. It has all the characteristics of cancer except that its progress is slow, and that it is slow in relapsing. It is an infiltrating growth, destroying the tissue it invades, spreading to adjacent parts, affecting the lymphatic glands, and appearing in remote organs ; as in a case re- corded by Lebert, in which a colloid tumour of the left breast of twelve years' duration destroyed the bieast, appeared in the axillary glands, destroyed the intercostal muscles by infiltration; and invaded both lungs, the mediastinum and bronchial glands. 5. Hcematoid Cancer {Fungus hmmatoides) is a variety of soft cancer, distinguished by its excessive vascularity, which is sometimes sufficient to cause a sensible throbbing like that of a vascular tumour. * This cut represents the outward appearance of a colloid growth on the mesentery, from King's College Museum. See also Ballard, Med. Chir, Trans, vol. xxxi.; Sibley, ih. vol. xxxix., and a classical case in Lebert, Anatomie Phy- siologique, vol. i.