CATARACT. 425 the back straight and blunt; the point sharp; the edge slanting ob- liquely; the blade increasing in thickness, as well as in breadth, as it approaches the handle. The advantages of this shape are, that it fills up the incision which it makes, and prevents the escape of the aqueous humour; and that the flap of the coinea is made by one simple motion, that is, by pushing the knife onwards. That used by Mr. Walton measures from the point to the shoulder j^th of an inch, and across the broadest part ^^th. of an inch, which gives a longer blade and a more acute angle than that shown in the drawing. But different operators use knives of different shapes. 2. A curette; an instrument with a curved needle at one end, and a small spoon at the other. Mr. Walton has devised a guarded curette, in which the hook is concealed till protruded by a spring. 3. A se- condary knife to enlarge the incision in the cornea if required. 4. A sharp jfiook. The patient may be either sitting, or lying on his back with the head properly supported, and in a good light. The operator, behind him, uses his right hand for the right, and his left for the left eye. An assistant draws down the lower lid, and steadies it against the malar bone, without pressing on the globe. The operator, with the forefinger of the non-operating hand, raises the upper lid and locks it under the edge of the orbit, just resting the point of this forefinger against the upper surface of the globe, and that of the middle finger against its inner surface, so as to steady it. Then holding the knife lightly with the thumb and first two fingers of the other hand, and resting his hand against the side of the face, he commences by—1. Puncturing the cornea at the centre of its outer margin, half a line, or even less, from the sclerotica, 2ndly. The blade is pushed gently across, parallel with the iris, in such a way that the point shall penetrate the other side of the cornea, exactly opposite to the first puncture; and that the edge shall cut an even semicircular flap of the upper half of the cornea. Just when the incision is completed, which should be slowly and care- fully done, the eyelids should be dropped, and all pressure be ceased. 3rdly. Having waited a few seconds, the surgeon lifts the upper lid sufficiently to expose the cornea, tells the patient to look towards his feet, so that the globe may be directed downwards; then introduces the curette, and freely lacerates the capsule of the lens. 4thly. He makes very gentle pressure on the under part of the globe, and on the upper eyelid, till the lens rises through the pupil and escapes. Lastly, the eye should be opened after a minute or two, to see that the flap of the cornea is rightly adjusted, and that the iris is not prolapsed : if it is, the eyes should be exposed to a bright light, so as to make the pupil contract, and the prolapsed portion should be gently pressed upon with the spoon of the curette. Then the operation is finished. Complications.—1. Sometimes, in consequence of the premature escape of the aqueous humour, the iris falls forwards under the edge of the knife. If the point of the knife is completely entangled in the iris, it is necessary to withdraw the instrument, heal the wound, and