732 CAUTERY.—SETONS. ing-plaster. After the application of the caustic, the part should be poulticed till the slough separates, and then the sore may be prevented from healing, either by binding several peas firmly on its surface, or by touching it occasionally with the caustic. The second species of issue is made by pinching up the skin, and slitting it up with a lancet, and then introducing some peas to prevent it from healing. It may be remarked, that issues should never be made over projecting points of bones, nor over the bellies of muscles, for they might degenerate into most obstinate sores. Thus, for diseased vertebr£e, the issues should be made between the spinous and transverse processes; for diseased hip, behind the great trochanter, and not over it; for diseased knee, just below the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Issues, if indolent or irri- table, should be healed up. They are only of use, says Mr. Vincent, when the actions carried on in them are vigorous and healthy. IX. The Actual Cautery is certainly a very efficient, and it is very far from being the most painful, manner of effecting counter- irritation. On the contrarj'-, its effects are speedy, and not attended with very much suffering. It is easily effected by means of an iron rod with a knob of the size and shape of an olive at one end of it, and a wooden handle at the other. The knob being heated red hot, is rubbed on the skin so as to make two or three blackened lines about half an inch wide, and an inch asunder. Then the cold-water dressing or a poultice may be applied till the shallow eschars separate; and it appears to be better to keep the sores open by touching them occasion- ally with the cautery, than by the ordinary irritating dressings. We have spoken in more than one place of the efficacy of the cautery for closing fissures and fistulas. The surgeon will require instruments of various sizes and shapes for these pui-poses. Marshall's galvanic cautery is a very convenient instrument for cauterizing the interior of sinuses, or fungous granulations. A current from a galvanic battery of half-a-dozen cells is passed along the metallic rods and through the handle; the rods are isolated by an intermediate strip of ivory, and the current passes through the wire at the end, raising it to an intense heat. The wire can be arranged in any conve- nient shape. There are other modifications, some having an apparatus in the handle for making and breaking contact at will. X. Setons are introduced by pinching up a fold of the skin, and pushing a needle through it armed with a skein of silk or cotton, or a long flat piece of india-rubber. As soon as one or two inches of the thread are brought through, the needle is cut off. A fresh portion of