515 LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. pointed out the impoi'tant fact, that a difficulty of swallowing is liable to come on about the fourth or fifth day; and that it is expedient to give thickened soups, pounded meat, and other half-solid substances; liquids are then apt to enter the larynx, because the epi- glottis is out of gear. \ III, Tracheotomy or Laryngotomy is required for any disease or injury which causes mechanical impediment to respiration. 1. In acute laryngitis, croup, and diphtheria, w^hen suffocation is imminent, tracheotomy should be performed. Some surgeons condemn it in croup, on the plea of its hopelessness. But we reply that is the only remedy; that it has undoubtedly in many cases prolonged a life which was on the verge of extinction ; that it furnishes an exit for flakes of false membrane that cannot pass the rima glottidis; and that it very likely would be more successful if it were done earlier, without waiting till the patient is exhausted by struggling for breath. More- over, Mr. Henry Smith has well shown that in some fatal cases of croup, the obstruction has been seated in the larynx only, and that an opening below would have saved life. In the state called cedema glottidis, in which the submucous tissue about the glottis becomes infiltrated with serum in consequence of a low degree of inflammation, or of a general dropsical diathesis, a glance at the adjoining figure will show that laryngotomy must be often ne- cessary to preserve life. This state may be suspected when intense dys- pncea, not referable to disease in the chest, and hoarseness arise, either during sore throat, or erysipelas, or after scarlet fever. It may be acute, or may be of slow origin and progress. Its extent may be deter- mined by the laryngoscope. If acute, free purgation, free perspira- tion enforced by the vapour bath, leeches outwardly, and shallow scari- fications or punctures of the tonsils, and of the epiglottis, and any other swelled structures that can be got at, are the first remedies : after these the solution of nitrate of silver ; and, in any case, not to let a patient die suftbcated, for want of laryn- gotomy. The cedema is more usually above than below the vocal cords. 2. In chronic inflammation and ulceration of the larynx, the opera- tion should also be performed before the disease has lasted long enough to exhaust the patient by the suffocative cough, dyspnoea, and purulent expectoration which attend it. This is an occasional consequence of secondary syphilis, and more frequently of confirmed phthisis; but the