676 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. irritability of the ejaculatory apparatus, with in-voluntary nocturnal emissions* even of a bloody fluid, together with very great pain in the back, languor, and despondency of mind, have been caused by the presence of irritating urine, containing oxalate of lime, and cured by the means described in the section on Urinary Deposits. Lastly, there is the application of nitrate of silver to the prostatic portion of the urethra, as directed at p. 615 ; of which it may be said, that if some- times useful, it is often useless, if not mischievous. Any tampering with, and every means of directing the patient's thoughts to the genital organs, should be avoided if possible. CHAPTEE XXII. SUKGICAL DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. I. Catarrhal Vulvitis.—Women—even youngfgirls—are subject to mucous or purulent discharges from the parts at the entrance of the vagina; which may also perhaps be excoriated. Purgatives, tonics, soap and water, and astringent lotions are the remedies. (See p. 201.) II. Noma signifies a phagedsenic affection of the labia pudendi of young female children, precisely resembling the cancrum oris, p. 473, in its causes, and nature, and symptoms. After two or three days of low fever, the little patient is observed to suffer considerably whilst making water, and on examination, the labia present a livid erysipe- latous redness and vesications, that are rapidly followed by phagedsenic ulcers. The disease is very frequently fatal. The treatment is the same as directed for cancrum oris. The surgeon must be very careful not to mistake this or the preceding afiection for venereal disease ; an error common enough among parents. In the year 1853 there were several criminal trials at Dublin of persons falsely accused of tampering with children.* III. Vesico-Vagina Fistula signifies a communication between the bladder and the vagina. It generally results from sloughing of the parts after a tedious labour.f As soon as it is discovered the patient should be made to lie on her face; the utmost cleanliness should be en- forced by means of astringent injections and fomentations ; by which means the cicatrization and contraction of the aperture will be pro- * Kinder Wood on a fatal affection of the Pudenda of Female Children, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 84. Wilde, Med. Times, Oct. 1853. f With the improvement of midwifery, and with less cowardice and delay in resorting to the forceps, this accident ought to disappear. Midwifery lec- turers are to blame for the absurd overcaution which they inculcate with regard to the forceps. It is, by-the-by, curious to remark, that out of nineteen cases related in Remarks on the Urethro-Vaginal, and Vesico-Vaginal Fistules, by N. Bozeman, M.D„ of Montgomery, Ala, 1857, fourteen occurred in coloured girls, or n egresses. * •