CYSTIC TUMOURS. 108 also be found in the lip, and in the prostate, parotid, and thyroid glands. Such tumours are generally painless, not tender, moderately soft, elastic, and lobulated. On examination they are usually found to con- sist of three elements: 1. Common fibrous tissue, hypertrophied, forming septa and loculi. 2. Abundance of fibro-plastic cells and nuclei. 3. Imbedded in the former two is found the essential constituent, gland- tissue. This consists of sacs, or pouches of clear pellucid membrane, arranged in lobules or acini, and filled with glandular epithelium. If the containing membrane be ruptured, the epithelium may be seen to pour out. Both the fibro-plastic and epithelial elements in these tumours ai-e liable to softening from inflammatory disturbance, or fi-om fatty degeneration. This disease may disappear spontaneously; or it may remain stationary; or it may enlarge, distend the skin, ulcerate, pro- trude as a bleeding fungous mass, and destroy life by irritation and exhaustion. It is sometimes traceable to local injury, or disorder of the health, but more frequently not. The iodides of potassium and of iron sometimes seem to delay the growth of this tumour; but in general it requires extirpation. Even then it is exceedingly liable to return : and «ises are on record of five or six successive operations on the same patient, followed by renewed growth of the tumour.f II. Vascular Tumours are composed of blood-vessels or of spaces containing blood, and will be more conveniently described in the Chap- ter on the Arteries. SECTION VI.—CYSTIC TUMOURS. These are tumours consisting of a sac, containing solid or liquid sub- stances. They may arise in three ways: 1. By the formation of definite cavities in the meshes of the common areolar tissue. 2. By the dilatation and growth of obstructed gland ducts or follicles. 3. By the independent and erratic development of nucleated cells, which become exaggerated into cysts ; or of isolated particles of gland-tissue, which fill with secretion, but are unprovided with ducts. 4. By the extravasation of blood, and the disappearance of the red particles, and separation of the serum from the fi brine. I. Serous Cysts.—Of the simple cysts, the most common are those containing serum. They may occur in almost any structure, natural or morbid : in the intermuscular areolar tissue ; in bone ; in tumours of almost every kind ; in the secreting glands, as the kidney or breast; but most frequently in the neck in connexion with, or in the neigh- bourhood of, the thyroid gland ; also in the vicinity of the jaws. The * Three acini, from a glandular tumour of the breast; one ruptured, with epithelium coming out. Sketched from nature. t See M. Charles Robin on Heteradenic Tumours in the Nasal Fossaj, &c. ; Lebert, Anat. Path., Paris, ia57, vol. i.