ULCERATION, 68 the surface of the skin pale ; intense heat; very excruciating pain ; and loss of all power of using the muscles. The importance of this disease depends very much upon the circumstance whether it is purely local, or accompanied by general blood-infection. If local, the consequences are obUteration of venous trunks, obstinate swelling and a?dema of the parts below; perhaps abscesses around the affected veins. If accompanied with pyiemia, there will be some one or more of the consequences of that disease which we have just described. This, like all other diseases of its class, is most common in women after parturition, especially if they have lost much blood; and the open veins of the uterus, and the fetid dischai ges with which they are in contact, furnish a ready explana- tion of the cause. The part affected is generally the thigh. But it is not confined to women, as the following cases from the author's note- book will show. A very stout gentleman had for two years a small fistulous orifice in the ham, resulting from a boil. This became the seat of fresh inflammation, and was freely laid open with great relief. On the fifth day he was rather feverish; there was an ol^scure doughy swelling, not cedematous nor fluctuating, over the inner part of the thigh; there was no pain, but a sense of tightness. This increased during the next throe Jays, and became painful, till the whole thigh was greatly swelled and douoliy, the leg cedematous. A hospital- surgeon insisted that there must be deep-seated suppuration; and made H long and deep gash on the outside of the thigh. The parts cut seemed gelatinous, and exuded very little blood, no pus, and no serum. The pulse gradually rose ; headache, diarrhoea, and delirium came on. The thigh continuing in statu quo, the hospital-surgeon made deep punctures ia the upper part of the limb with a grooved needle : neither serum nor pus exuded. Death on the twentieth day. The writer has also seen it in a gentleman recovering fi-om a sloughing sore produced by scarlet fever. Treatment.—For the local symptoms, nothing answers so well in the case of women, as warm poppy fomentations, or bran poultices sprinkled with laudanum ; and, later in the case, gently sitiearing with opiate liniments, F. 147, and wrapping up in flannel bandages. ' The bowels should be gently relieved. Opium should be given to allay the pain., All lowering and violent; remedies are hurtful.* CHAPTER XII. ULCERATION. SECTION I.—THE PATHOLOGY OF ULCERATION. Definition.—Ulceration consists in the progressive softening and disintegi'ation of successive layers of the ulcerating tissue. Pathology.—One of the most vexed questions in pathology is, what is an ulcer ? And this is seen in the disputations about the so-called ulcers * See Mackenzie on Phlegmasia Dolens.