161 BURNS AND SCALDS. Tlie pain is philosophically said to consist of perpetuation of the original sense of burning. 2. In the second class there is a higher degree of inflammation, causing the cutis to exude sei-um and form vesicles. These in trivial cases dry up and heal; but if the injury to the cutis has been sufficient to cause it to suppurate, they will be succeeded by obstinate ulcers. 3. The third class of burns is attended with mortification from disorganization of structure. These are, for obvious reasons, not attended with so much pain as the last class; but in every other respect they are infinitely more serious, and the sores which remain after the separation of the sloughs are often months or years in healing. Constitutional Symptoms.—The constitutional symptoms of severe burns are those of great collapse. The surface is pale, the extremities cold, the pulse quick and feeble;—there are violent and repeated shiverings, and the patient often complains most urgently of cold. In some fatal cases these symptoms are soon succeeded by laborious breathing, coma, and death; in others, dissolution is pre- ceded by a period of imperfect reaction, with delirium, and sharp jerking pulse. Prognosis.—Extensive burns, even of small severity, are always dangerous; and especially if vesication has occurred early, and the cuticle has been stripped off. Burns on the trunk are always more dangerous than those of an equal extent on the extremities. With re- gard to the symptoms actually present, it may be noticed, that although the severe pain, such as is common in burns of the second class, is in itself a source of great danger, from its tendency to exhaust the vital powers, still that it is on the whole a favourable symptom, if the in- jury is extensive ; and that apathy and stupor indicate urgent peril. The jjimbds o/demurer in burns are three: 1st, during the first five days, from collapse or imperfect reaction; 2ndly, during the sympa- thetic fever which follows, in which the patient may sink with an affection of the head, chest, or abdomen ; thirdly, during the suppura- tive stage, in which he may die from the profuse discharge or from pul- monary consumption induced by it. Kentish observes that very many cases prove fatal on the ninth day. Morbid Anatomy.—k post-mortem examination readily accounts for the coma and laborious breathing, which are such constant symptoms of fatal burns. Congestion and serous effusion are found on the surflxce and in the ventricles of the brain ; and the air-cells of the lungs are loaded with a thin muco-serous fluid, as in the " suffocative catarrh of the dying " of Laennec. JMoreover, it has been shown by Mr, Cur- ling,* that severe burns in young people may be followed by an acute ulceration of the duodenum, liable to terminate fatally by perfoi'ating the intestine and causing peritonitis, or by opening some large artery and causing effusion of blood, part of which may be evacuated by * Med. Ghir. Trans, vol. xxv.; Humphrey, Association Journ., Oct. 19, 1855. D M