NEUEALGIA. 365 vided that it be not intimately embedded in the substance of a large nerve, such as the sciatic, the division of which would paralyze a limb. V. Neuralgia, or Tic-Doloreux.—This affection may be defined to be severe pain affecting the nerves, not necessarily produced by or- ganic lesion. It occurs in paroxysms of very severe pain, mostly of a plunging, lancinating character, shooting in the course of the nerves. It most frequently attacks persons of middle age, female sex, and com- fortable circumstances. Causes,—The exciting causes may be of two orders. 1. There are some which act upon the nerve that is the seat of pain. Thus neuralgia may be produced by wounds and other injuries, as before related; by tumours at the origin or in the course of the nerve, especially cancer ; by spicula of bone pressing on the nerve (which is a frequent cause of facial neuralgia); or by some disease in the brain or spinal cord at its origin. 2. It may be caused by states of the blood ; as, for instance, by loss of blood and debility, accompaneid by pallor and anaemia, especially if combined with torpor of the kidneys and bowels; by wet and cold ; by irritation of the skin from eruptions or wounds; by carious teeth; by disorders of the alimentary canal; by a rheumatic taint; sometimes by diseases of the urinary or other internal organs; lastly, by malaria. When arising from malaria, it is generally intermittent, like other dis- eases arising from the same source, and occurs at regular intervals. But all intermittent neuralgia is not necessarily caused by malaria; because this, as well as other nervous affections, may occur only at stated periods, although caused by a local source of irritation that is permanent. The nature of the complaint is apparently functional derangement. The suddenness of its accession and departure, and the absence of organic change in nerves that have been affected for years, prove that it is not essentially inflammatory. See p. 20. The most common forms of neuralgia are—the Supra-orbital Neu- ralgia, Brow Ague, or Hemicrania, which is usually caused by malaria; neuralgia of the superior and inferior maxillary nerves, which is often caused by diseased teeth, or disease of the bony canals through which those nerves pass; and neuralgia of the breast and testicle, which will be treated of elsewhere: it may also attack the extremities, or any internal organ. Treatment.—The indications are three. First, to remove all soui'ces of irritation which may affect the painful nei-ve, either at its origin or in any part of its course ; remembering always that the painful spot is very seldom the real seat of the disease; secondly, to amend any dis- order of the constitution that can be detected; thirdly, to alleviate pain. In the first place, therefore, the whole course of the affected nerve should be thoroughly examined ; and if there is a cicatrix, or tumour, or wound, or a carious tooth, or an abscess, or ulcer, or hernia, or aneurism, to which the pain can be attributed, measures should be