98 CHAPTER XIV. MORBID GROWTHS AND TUMOURS. SECTION 1.—OF TUMOURS GENERALLY. Definition.—The word tumour is used in pathological language to signify, not any kind of swelling or enlargement, but only such en- largements as are caused by morbid growths. By morbid growths are understood {;ertain masses of living tissue, growing independently,,ex- cessively, and abnormally. (See page 20.) Thus in the definition of tumours are included the ideas—1st. That they are composed of a living tissue, either natural or vinnatural, and if of natural tissue, yet developed in unnatural quantity or situation, 2ndly. That they grow independently, or, in Mr. Paget's words, " they grow with appeai'ance of inherent power, irrespective of the growing or maintenance of the rest of the body, discordant from its normal type, and with no seeming purpose." Again—" while forming part of the body, and bon-ovving from it the apparatus and matei-ials necessary to its life, the tumour grows, or maintains itself, or degenerates, according to peculiar laws."* Each sort of tumour depends, no doubt, on some specific constitu- tional vice. But tlie nature of that vice is quite unknown. The reme- dies arc equally unknown ; for there is scarcely any morbid growth that is infiuenced by any medicine yet discovered. Classification.—The true basis of the classification of morbid growths is their structure; and the structure being known, both in its naked-eye and microscopical characters, the origin, development, symp- toms, and subsequent history of each kind of growth must be atten- tively studied. A large group of tumom-s are composed of fibrinous, or fibro-plastic matter, in some stage of development between indistinct fibrillation, or rudimentary cell-growth, and perfectly fibrous or areolar tissue. This group includes the fibro-plastic, fibro-nucleated, and fibrinous and gelatinous tumours ; which ai e composed of masses of cell-growth ("see p. 24), which increase in bulk, without being developed into perfect tissue; and in which a great variety of abortive cell-forms is displayed. Many pathologists think that cancer and some forms of tubercle belong to this group. Besides these it includes the fibrous and fibro-cellulai', in which the structure of areolar tissue is fully developed. A second group consists of bony and cartilaginous tumom s. * Vide Carswell's Pathology; Miiller on Cancer and Morbid Growths, by C. West, Lond. 1840; Walshe on Cancer, Lond. 184 6; also on Adventitious Formations, in Todd's Cyclopaedia, parts 30 and 31; Hughes Bennett, on Can- cerous and Cancroid Growths, Edinburgh, 1849 ; Paget's Lectures, Lond. 1853; Lebert, Physiologic Pathologique, 1845; Traite Pratique des Maladies Canc^- reuses, Paris, 1851; and Anatomic Pathologique, Paris, 1857; Wedl, Patliolo- gical Histology ; Rokitansky, op. cit.