GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 140 Canister Shot likewise cause wounds similar, though not so severe as those from musket balls of the same size. Small Shot, discharged from a fowling-piece or pistol, produce dif- ferent effects, according to the distance at which they strike. If the distance is great, they will in all probability be scattered, and fall singly; peppering the victim smartly, but not penetrating beyond the subcutaneous tissue, nor doing much harm unless one of them sti ike the eye. But if the distance is small, so that they strike en masse, their effects are far more destructive than those of a bullet, for they spread in the flesh, and so cause greater laceration, besides the mischief arising from their lodgment in the tissues. Although there may be no hall in a gun or pistol, yet the wad- ding may act as a ball, if the piece is discharged close to the body. The surgeon in civil practice who examines a gun-shot wound inflicted with intent to murder, should always save the wadding if he finds any, as it may afford a clue to the detection of the murderer. All gun- shot injui-ies, too, may be complicated with severe burns from the explosion of gunpowder. Occasionally it happens that portions of the accoutrements, money from the pockets, or even pieces of bone from other soldiers' bodies are carried by the shot into the wound and lodged. A remarkable case of this kind is given by the late Mr. Guthrie, of two five-franc pieces being carried from the pocket of one man and lodged by a grape-shot in the thigh of the next. In the naval action before Sevastopol a man in the cockpit of the " Albion " was dangerously wounded by a large piece of the jaw car- ried into his body from the head of a fellow-patient, while being dressed by the surgeon, Mr. Pritchard. Course of Balls,—In the passage of the ball everything is as a rule carried in front of it, and we meet with fragments of the patients' clothing or pieces of wadding in the wound. Yet it is remarkable how easily globular balls may sometimes be diverted from their course by the slightest obstacle. An officer in the engineers returning one evening from the trenches before Sevastopol, was struck in the abdomen by a musket ball. It first impinged against a button of his trousers, which it bent double. This served to change its direction, and instead of pass- ing into the cavity of the abdomen, it travelled downwards between the abdominal muscles, and lodged deeply in the upper part of the thigh. Any trifling obliquity of surface, or difference of density in the parts which it traverses, may cause it to take a most circuitous route. Thus a ball may enter on one side of the head, chest, or abdomen, and may pass out at a point exactly opposite, just as if it had gone entirely through the cavity. In such instances the ball has generally been guided by a ridge of bone ; thus, in the chest it travels round the ribs, or in the abdomen around the crest of the ileum. Sometimes it will make a complete circuit, as in the case of a friend of Dr. Hennen, ■who was struck about the pomum Adami by a bullet, which passed completely round the neck, and was found lying in the very orifice at