461 CARIES. sudden attacks of convulsions, and very few morbid conditions besides this are found. No complaint is made of the ear ; but the children cry- when it is washed, or they are fond of having it tickled with a pin, or put their hands to it, or roll their heads on their pillows. They are also often unwilling to he jumped in play. On examining the ear, the membrana tympani is often seen bulging, and it presents a peculiar dull reddish-white appearance due to the fluid within appearing through it. Counter-irritation, and tonics, especially the iodide of iron, with good food and fresh air, are the remedies.* An effect of chronic thickening of the mucous membrane of the tympanum is III. Anchylosis of the Stapes.—This is a frequent cause of deaf- ness from the age of puberty upwards. It may be merely membranous from rigidity of the thickened membrane—or bony. Not unfrequently a laige deposit of new and hard bone of ivory whiteness surrounds the entire articulating surfaces of the stapes and vestibule.f These cases used to be set down as nervous. There is generally no history of pain ; nor does the examination of the ear exhibit much indication of disease. There may be more or less dryness, vascularity, or contraction of the meatus, or rigidity and concavity of the membrana tympani. The adapting power of the ear is chiefly impaired, so that rapid or mixed conversation is especially difficult to follow. Temporary relief is often given by yawning, pulling the outer ear, or pressing on the trac-us. Small doses of the bichloride of mercury, or larger doses of iodide of potassium, with counter-irritation, and scrupulous avoidance of everything that can favour congestion of the mucous membranes, or the development of rheumatic conditions, are remedies by which a large amount of benefit may be obtained. Turkish baths may be employed. TV. Caries, or necrosis of the petrous or mastoid bones, is a fre- quent consequence of suppuration within the tympanum or mastoid cells. Constant fetid discharge; fungous granulations choking the meatus ; deafness; palsy of the side of the face; dead bone felt with the probe; probably abscess over the mastoid process, or abscess occurring amongst the muscles of the neck, and pointing low down, are the symptoms. We may reiterate the injunction, that prevention is better than cure ; that an early incision down to the mastoid bone may prevent caries, but that, at all events, if matter forms, it should be at once freely evacuated. A seton at the nape of the neck is often useful. Any loose portions of bone should be extracted. Sir P. Crampton drew from the meatus of a young lady a piece of bone com- prising the entire internal ear—vestibule, cochlea, and semicircular canals, with a small portion of the inner wall of the tympanum. The patient had urgent symptoms of inflammation of the brain, with hemi- plegia, and total deafness of one ear, but ultimately recovered. Other cases have been since recorded. The discharge should be carefully washed away by injections, as F. 136. * Hinton, Med. Chir. Trans., 1856. •j- Toj iibee. Diseases of the Ear, p. 266.