440 EETINITIS. there is this great change of structure, vision may still be wonderfully perfect. For the ophthalmoscopic changes see page 438 IV. Dropsy of the vitreous humour, or Hydrophthalmia, proba- bly depends on slow inflammation of the inner tissues of the eyes, gene- rally the result of injury. It causes enlargement of the globe, with loss of sight. In some cases there is constant excruciating pain, only to be relieved by puncturing the sclerotic with a needle. In others, there is no pain; the disease advances a certain length, and then becomes stationary; and the only thing complained of, besides the loss of vision, is the deformity. SECTION XV.—RETINITIS. The Retina must of necessity be more or less involved in any in- flammatory process which alfects the deeper structures of the eyeball; but sometimes it appears to be the original or sole seat of inflammation. That inflammation may be confined to the retina, without affecting the other textures of the globe, is rendered probable by the distribution of the arteria centralis retinae, and its very slight vascular connexion with any other tissue.* Autliors describe three forms; the acute, subacute, and chronic. 1. In the acute form the symptoms are—severe, deep- seated, and throbbing pain in the eye, extending to the temples and head; vision rapidly impaired, or even altogether lost; frequent sensa- tions of flashes of light, with great fever and delirium. The pupil gradually closes, the iris loses its brilliancy, and the sclerotic is highly vascular and rose-red. If unrelieved, the whole globe may suppu- rate. 2. Subacute.—Dimness of sight, headache or giddiness, flushed countenance and fever; the pupil soon becoming motionless, and the iris turbid. 3. Chronic.—Gradually-increasing dimness of sight; visions of black spots or flashes of light; irritability of the eye and intolerance of light; tenderness of the eyeball, and of the parts around ; but the patient, though he may shade the eye, does not always shut it. These affections are distinguished by the circumstance that dimness of sight and intolerance of light occur before redness or any external sign of in- flammation. But the practitioner must carefully discern between these symptoms and the intolerance of light, or photophobia, which occurs in Strumous Ophthalmia, as the treatment for the two complaints should be diametrically opposite. The age of the patient, and the fact that in Strumous Ophthalmia the sufferer has periods of remission, and can usually open the eyes towards evening, will sufficiently mark the dif- ference ; besides, in acute Retinitis, there is deep-seated pain felt at all times, while in Strumous Ophthalmia the pain is very little felt, so long as lio'ht is completely excluded. See retinal changes, page 435. Causes.—Exposure to vivid light, flashes of lightning, strong fires, the reflection of the sun from snow, and the like; or habitual exertion of the eye on minute objects, together with neglect of exercise, confine- ment of the bowels, and over-indulgence in food and spirituous liquors, or else with debility, and want of nourishment. * Taylor, Med. Times and Gaz., June 5th, 1852.