VARICOCELE. 671 nica vaginalis, in consequence of injury. It is sometimes combined with ecchymosis of the scrotum. Treatment.—In the first place, time, rest, moderate purgatiA^es, and cold lotions, must be employed to prevent or allay inflammation, and allow the blood to be absorbed. Should great inflammation and tense swelling threaten suppuration, an incision should be made. But sometimes the long presence of unabsorbed blood leads to more serious ill consequences. A ponderous tumour is formed, consistmg of the expanded tunica vaginalis, lined with clot, and filled with sanguinolent serum. If tapped, it probably fills again. For this case, the only thing to be done is to make a free incision, turn out the clot, and leave the cavity to granulate. But if, from the magnitude of the tumour, it is evident that the risk of this operation, and of the sloughing that may follow, is too great—and if, as probably happens, the testicle itself is wasted b)^ the continued compression, and completely involved in the fibrinous layers, so as to be indistinguishable—the only remedy re- maining is extirpation,* XII. Varicocele [Cirsocele or Spermatocele) signifies a varicose state of the veins of the spermatic cord. It is induced by the ordinary causes of varix ; that is to say, weakness of structure combined with obstruction to the return of blood through corpulence, constipation, and the like. It is much more common on the left side than on the right; the traditional explanation of which is, that the left spermatic vein is more pressed upon by fsecal accumulations, and that its course is longer and more circuitous than that of the right vein opening at right angles into the renal vein. Treatment,—In ordinary cases, sufficient relief may be obtained by keeping the bowels thoroughly open; by frequently washing the scrotum with cold water or astringent lotions, so as to constringe tlie skin ; and by su]iporting it with a suspensory bandage, made of good stout jea7i, braced firmly to a band passing round the pelvis. But there are some cases in which this disease produces very serious incon- venience—pain in the scrotum and loins—sense of dragging at the stomach—loss of appetite—flatulence—and despondency of mind—and for these cases, something more must be done. Mr. Wormald recom- mends the loose skin of the scrotum to be pinched up and confined with a steel ring. Blisters and counter-irritants, so as to inflame and condense the scrotum; division of the veins by the knife or caustic, and passing setons of thread through them, have had their advocates; and even the barbarous operation of passing a ligature through the scrotum, and tying up the skin of half the scrotum, with all the vessels except the artery and vas deferens—so that they may be divided by ulceration—has been practised in some cases with success ; in others with fatal results, but certainly always with a risk of causing atrophy of the testis. A more humane method is that of passing the ligatures subcutaneously, so as to divide veins only and not skin. These opera- * See case by Bowman, Lancet, 1853, voL i., p. 177.