594 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. part braced up and contracted. It is difficult to exaggerate the benefits of this plan of treatment. It seldom causes pain or any ill consequences. The author has by two applications of it relieved a patient permanently of pain and haemorrhage which had lasted for years, and which on the average caused him to lose two hours' time every morning, by rendering him incapable of attending to anything save his own miserable sensations. When the parts cannot be pro-^ truded, the acid may be applied through the speculum. 5. The Ligature,—But the acid will not be a sufficiently potent remedy if ther e are one or moi'e actual tumours, or if a large track of mucous membrane is swelled and protrudes. For such cases, any tumours, together with a portion of r elaxed mucous membrane, should be extirpated, and the ligature is the usual means of effecting it. Although the removal of piles need not be such a bugbear as some persons make it, yet the surgeon should pause if there be any organic disease of the liver or kidneys; and the patient should be put into the best state of health possible. The piles are to be protruded as before; then (the patient having chloroform to render him unconscious of pain, and to relax the sphinc- ter) the piles may be seized one by one and drawn out, and a small fine piece of hempen twine be tied as tightly as possible round the base of each. They may be seized with any forceps ; but one like that here depicted is very convenient. But it is better, especially if the tumour is large, to pass a double ligature through its base with a needle, and tie either half separately. Before finally tightening the ligatures, the piles should be slightly punctured. Any fold of superfluous membrane should be similarly seized and dealt with ; and the surgeon should take care, whilst about it, to tie up enough ; to tie it in small portions so that it may quickly slough off"; and to tie it so tightly as to kill it at once. After the operation, the ends of the thread should be cut short, and be returned into the rectum. The patient should remain in bed, and the bowels should not be disturbed for forty-eight hours after the operation. Pain is to be relieved by an opiate, F. 32; and if it persist, the ligatures should be examined to see whether they remain as tight as possible, and if not, they should be reapplied.