397 DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. done only as an extreme measure, and when there is so much thickening of the lid edge, and so much irregularity of the lashes, that neither of the others will suffice. It is to dissect away the hair follicles from the entire tarsal border. V. Entropion has been attributed to a variety of causes, among which may be mentioned contraction of the ciliary margin of the lid, thickening of the conjunctiva at the line of reflection from the lid to the globe, contraction of the entire tarsal cartilage, and redundancy of the skin of the lids. Mr. Wilde has endeavoured to show that it is due to contraction of the conjunctiva lijiing the lid. Mr. Haynes Walton attributes its immediate cause to the unnatural action of that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, which covers the edges of the tarsal cartilage, and which he states to be thicker, and more marked, than any other poi tion of the muscle that is on the cartilage. Mr. Wilde shows that the operations usually undertaken for the removal of entropion, such as the division of the tarsal cartilage pei-- pendicLilarly at each angle, and suspending the lid after Crampton's method, under the idea of the contraction either of its edge or body ; or the removal of any portion of the conjunctiva; or the cutting off the so-called redundant skin—do not answer; and recommends the plan of cutting off the cilia, leaving, however, the cartilage entire. Among the other proofs that Mr. Walton adduces, of the power of the ciliary portion of the orbicularis muscle to act in the manner he describes, is the fact, that a colleague of his can invert his lids by the influence of the will alone. He proposes, therefore, the removal of the ciliary portion of the muscle so as to destroy the inverting power, and the removal of a portion of the skin of the lid to overcome whatever contraction the tarsus may have acquired. Simple division of the lid by a centi'al slit has been recommended, and is adopted by some sur- geons ; and Mr. Walton says that this operation, by destroying the per- verted action of the orbicularis, may in some instances answer, i. e., where the tarsus has not acquired any permanent curve, but in the great majority it will not, it being necessary in addition to remove a bit of the skin of the lid also. An incision is made along the edge of the tarsus, and close to its cuticular margin, from one angle of the lid to the other; and a second nearly parallel to it, about three lines distant, and joining it at its extremities ; the knife being cai-ried down to the cartilage, through both skin and muscle. Then one corner of this flap being raised by forceps, it is * The first cut represents an ectropion caused by a cicatrix ; the second shows the successful results of the operation spoken of in the text.