HYDROPHOBIA. 182 least impression on the skin; the touch of a feather, or impulse of the gentlest current of air, are sufficient to bring on the convulsive fits, and are most earnestly deprecated by the patient. (c.) The state of mind is in most cases one of most profound despair. Sometimes there is great restlessness and talkativeness; some- times maniacal fui y ; more rarely entire composure and tranquillity throughout the disease. Progress and Termination.—When the disease is fully esta- blished, its torments are aggravated by extreme thirst; and still more by a peculiar viscid secretion from the fauces, the irritation of which brings on the convulsive fits, and causes a perpetual hawking and spitting, which are veiy constant symptoms. Not unfrequently there is vomiting of greenish matter mixed with blood. As the disease advances, the convulsions increase in frequency and violence; there is constant restlessness and tremor; the lips and cheeks become livid, and perpetually quiver; till at length one fit lasts long enough to exhaust the i-emaining strength, and release the patient from his misery. An entire and remarkable I'emission (perhaps from the use of medicine), sometimes occurs, and the patient enjoys perfect ease, or perhaps sleeps for some hours; but yet the symptoms return, after a time, with aggravated violence. Again, in some cases, there is a perfect calm before dissolution; the patient becomes tranquil, and most of his sufferings subside or vanish; he can eat, nay, drink or converse with facility ; and former objects associated with the excruciating torture of attempting to swallow liquids no longer disturb his feelings. From this calm he sinks into repose, and, suddenly waking from his sleep, expires."* Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances most frequently found are, congestion of the membranes and substance of the brain and spinal cord, and effusion of serum. Sometimes blood is extravasated around the cervical portion of the cord. The lining membrane of the fauces, oesophagus, trachea, and bronchi, are most highly vascular, the papillie at the root of the tongue large, and the lungs congested. The stomach often contains a darkish fluid, and patches of vascularity of a dark-purple colour are found in it and in the intestines. But although some one or more of these morbid appearances are detected in most cases, still there is not one of them that is present invariably. The brain, spinal cord, and fauces have been found pale, and the stomach without spots. Hydrocyanic acid has been detected in the blood after death, but this is not peculiar to hydrophobia.f Pathology.—It is quite clear, therefore, that no change of struc- ture that has yet been discovered can be considered essential to the existence of hydrophobia. It is true that the difficulty of breathing and swallowing may be partially accounted for by the inflammation about the fauces, and the great irritability of the surface is symptoma- tic of irritation of the spinal cord. But still no mere local changes can * Bardsley, Cycl. Pract, Med. Art. Hydrophobia. ■\ Med. Gaz., 5th September, 1840.