529 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. is a little behind their middle, and thrust in a very fine trocar, to which an exhausting syringe is adapted. By this the liquid can be slowly pumped oat of the chest, without the least risk of introducing air. Supposing the liquid merely serous or inodorous, when about a quart has been withdrawn the wound may be closed, and the operation repeated in a week. If the fluid extracted be offensive, the case must be treated like any other huge abscess. The boldest plan is to with- draw as much liquid as possible, and inject one or two pints of water, containing a drop of iodine in solution, repeating this process till the liquid returns inodorous. The puncture must be repeated at intervals. Should a permanent opening be established, it would be better to introduce a drainage tube. One sufficient aperture must be made. A long bent iron probe is passed through it, into the cavity, and made to project at one of the intercostal spaces, as far back and as low down as possible. Here it is to be felt and cut down upon, and made to project; and then a piece of silk to be attached to an eye in it, which is to be drawn through the wound, and by means of the silk, an India-rubber tube ; the ends of the tube are tied together, and the pus allowed to drain away. But in any case, should the discharge be offensive, the iodine injection should be repeated. VI. Hydrops Pericardii may occur under the same conditions as hydrothorax, and may be combined with it. Its diagnosis is obscure. It may be suspected to exist if the patient complain of constant weight in the prsecordia, great dyspnoea, especially when lying on the back, and faintness upon exertion; if there is great dulness on percussion, and manifest fulness over the region of the heart—if its pulsations are tremulous—and the circulation embarrassed. The operation of para- centesis pericardii has been practised, although it can rarely be of much benefit, and ought not to be dreamed of until blisters and diuretics have failed entirely. It has been attempted in sundry cases of hydro- thorax, which were mistaken for hydrops pericardii; but by a second lucky mistake the pleura was opened instead. It may be performed either by making an incision opposite the heart's apex, and dividing the muscles and pericardium with great precaution, or by first making an opening into the pleura, opposite the junction of the fifth or sixth rib with its cartilage—and then introducing the finger, feeling for the distended pericardium, and cutting into it with curved scissors ; but it is an operation which we by no means recommend. VII. Wounds and Contusions of the Parietes of the chest require the same treatment, whether the ribs are fractured or not. A bandage may be applied to prevent motion of the ribs, if the patient express himself relieved by it; but sometimes it adds to the distress, and must not be used. The bowels must be opened, the diet mode- rately low, cough and irritation be allayed by full opiates, and bleed- ing or leeches be employed, if necessary, to relieve difficult breathing and congestion of the lungs of a plethoric patient. VIII. Penetrating Wounds of the thorax, such as stabs from a sword, are usually attended with wound of the lung, of which we shall D 2 M