378 INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. The pulse loses its force, and becomes either slow and oppressed, or excessively rapid ; and squinting, low delirium, convulsions, or palsy, soon usher in death. Rigours, followed by squinting, dilated pupil, stertorous bi-eathing, coma, and palsy, are indications ot supj)uration. Certain changes on the outside of the head also accompany the mischief that is going on within. Supposing the injury which is tlie cause of the inflammation to have been accompanied with a wound, which up to the occurrence of the inflammation has been going on well,—to use the words of Pott, " the sore loses its florid complexion and granulated surface, and becomes pale, flabby, glassy, and painful; instead of good matter, a thin gleet is discharged from it; the lint with which it is dressed sticks to all parts of it; and the pericranium, instead of adhering firmly to the bone, separates all round from it to some distance fi"om its edges." The bone, moreover, may become white, dry, and bloodless. If there be no wound, the scalp will pre- sent a puify, circumscribed, indolent tumour at the seat of injury, on incising which the pericranium is found detached, and the tissues infiltrated with serum. Jf the dura-mater is exposed, it at first appears of " a dull, sloughy cast, and smeared over with something glutinous,'' and subsequently is covered with matter. Pathology.—So far we have described the classical or heroic form of acute encephalitis. But many cases will be met with in which the order of symptoms is very irregular. Thus, in the first place, severe and continuous vomiting may be the earliest symptom, without any complaint of the head ; or a sudden attack of convulsions, or of furious delirium ; or a sudden palsy, owing probably to insidious mischief which betrays itself when too late; or pains in the head of an inter- mitting character; or severe shiverings, terminating in a hot and sweating fit;—and many of these symptoms may occur without any fixed or regular signs of inflammation being betrayed by the pulse. Again, injuries of the skull are liable to be followed by pyoemia, with abscess in the lungs, liver, or joints, and the other signs of that affec- tion. This may occur from mere bruises which have injured the diploe, without fi'acture of either table, and without wound. Sleeplessness, wild intermitting delirium, and sudden suppression of a flux of cerebro- spinal fluid from the ear, after fracture of the base of the skull, espe- cially if accompanied by hot skin, quick pulse, and rigours, are very suspicious symptoms. Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances usually found are suppuration in the diploe ; clots in the sinuses ; exudation of yellowish or greenish lymph on the free surfaces of the dura-mater and arachnoid, covering perhaps extensive tracts, and perhaps partially or entirely converted into pus; similar exudation beneath the arachnoid, passing into the sulci, and thus appearing, on section, to be in the substance of the brain itself; serous effusion into the A'entricles; softening, oi- abscess of the central part of the brain or cerebellum. Prognosis will be unfavourable if the malady is not promptly re- lieved by depletion, or if it has advanced to its second stage.