536 OVARIOTOMY. which lasts for three months; and so on; the interval becomes shorter; the emaciation greater; other cysts enlarge, to reach which, it may be necessary to use a very long trocar, and to plunge it quite deeply, or the punctui'e must be in the linea semilunaris, or wherever fluctuation is most evident. Tapping joer vaginam, when a fluctuating portion of tumour projects much in that situation, may be worth adopting. At last no more can be done. Vomiting is incessant; and delirium and exhaustion close the scene. 2. Under the second head may he enumerated an immense variety of plans for producing atrophy or absorption of the tumour; such as (a) the administration of the iodide of potassium, with tonics, and the iodide of iron: these should have a fair trial in incipient cases, and after tapping: in cases in which the author has been consulted, he has always found a tonic plan of treatment the most effectual. Considering the enormous amount of blood-cells, albumen, and other blood-stuff in the fluid contents of the tumour, the writer has suggested the admini- stration of gallic acid and the other vegetable astringents. As for mer- cury and remedies whose object it is to promote absorption by creating gieat evacuations, or by lowering the system, the writer can only say that he believes the less they are resorted to the longer the patient will live. (6) Mr. Isaac Baker Brown's plan of first emptying the cyst by tapping, then applying firm pressure and administering mxcrcury. (c) Operations for opening the cyst into the cavity of the peritonseum by subcutaneous section, thus imitating the cases in which the cyst has been ruptured by violent action of the abdominal muscles, and the fluid has been absorbed, and the patient cured. But of course, for the success of such operations, it is requisite that the active growth of the tumour be at an end. (d) Operations for causing the tumour to waste and suppurate by passing setons. (e) Procuring adhesion of the cyst to the abdominal parietes, and establishing an ulcerated opening into the cyst at the adherent spot; or cutting into the cyst, and stitch- ing the edges of the opening into it to those of the wound through the abdominal parietes; thus establishing an artificial oviduct, through which the contents of the cyst may be evacuated. Most of these plans were originated by Mr. I. B. Bi-own. (/) The iodine injection has been tried by Dr. Simpson with good results; and by Mr. Spencer Wells. The latter gentleman prefers a solution of 20 grains of iodine and 30 of iodide of potassium, in an ounce of distilled water, to the strong tincture of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia, which Dr. Simpson employs. About two fluid ounces of this solution are injected after the cyst has been completely emptied. The same precautions are neces- sary as in the injection of the tunica vaginalis, not to let the point of the trocar slip out of the cyst, so as to run the risk of injecting the fluid into the peritonaeum. For this purpose a catheter may be passed through the canula of the trocar, deep into the cyst, before the fluid is let out, and be held there. The iodine is injected, or allowed to run in through a glass syringe, and is suffered to remain. If it answers the desired end, it will destroy or modify the inner surface of the sac, take