KEDUCIBLE HERNIA. 555 shoe, the outer limb (intended to press upon Poupart's ligament) being shorter than the inner, which is laid over the inner pillar of the ring. (See fig. 1.) The curve of the horseshoe is placed over the deep hernial opening, and the bearing of the side spring is exactly in the centre of the Fig. 1. pad. When a radical cure is looked for the pad is composed of a hard smooth substance, boxwood being the most con- venient. For peculiar cases a double C spring is made to work in the horns of the horseshoe under the side spring, or the hard surface may be covered by an India-rubber water bag of the shape of the pad. The pad for direct inguinal hernia is of the shape of an ovate ring with a hole in the middle opposite to the axis of the hernial opening. This exerts its chief pressure upon the margins, preventing their giving and enlarging under the pressure of the bowels. (See fig, 2.) The double bearing of the horseshoe and ring pads enable them, under sufficient pressure of the side spring, to keep in Fig. 2. place better than the convex pads, while the tension of the integuments across the opening prevents the rupture from emerging there. The spermatic cord and pubic spine escape the injurious pressure of the pad by lying in the cleft or opening. For large and diffi- cult cases of inguinal rupture, he em- ploys a double or twin pad, each half of which presses upon each of the pil- lars of the ring or sides of the neck of the sac. The spring goes entirely round both hips, one end pressing upon the inner, and the other on the outer of the half pads, so that an increase of pressure can be made upon either half that may be desirable. The two pads are bound together by a transverse strap. Thus a lateral as well as a backward pressure is kept up. The pad for crural hernia is egg-shaped in outline, its bearing surface being flattened for pressure upon the front wall of the crural canal, its upper border rounded to support Poupart's ligament, and its lower tapered off to accommodate itself to the saphenous opening. (See Fig. 3, p. 556.) This is also sometimes pro- vided vvith pad-springs.* (B shows a section,) Radical cure.—If the patient is below the age of puberty, or not much above it, and if the hernia has not existed very long, a proper truss, if constantly worn, has in some cases effected a permanent cure. The herniary aperture, no longer subject to distension, then becomes con- * These trusses are made by Mr. Matthews, of Portugal Street, Lincohi's-Inn Fields,