Vincent, Observations on Surgical Practice, Lend. 1848, p. 105. 4 TETANUS. thea the best of all stimuli, brandy, should be thrown in, and if there be delirium, opium." The opium may be given either in one full dose (such as gr. ii.—iii. of solid opium, or rp, xl.—Ix. of Battley's solu- tion), or in repeated small doses (such as gr. ^—| every hour or two hours) ; the repeated small doses being, perhaps, best, if debility and restlessness are very great. Beef-tea and other nourishment should be given. Mental excitement is better allayed by one or two kind but firm attendants than by straps and strait-waistcoats. The head should be frequently bathed with tepid water, and the bowels be opened by mild aperients. If coma supervenes, counter-irritation by means of sinapisms or blisters to the scalp, feet, or calves of the legs, may be tried.* (2.) The second form is the ordinary mania, of a mild cast. There are some persons of advanced life predisposed to insanity in whom the pain and excitement of any operation or injury, or even of any painful disease, are quite sufficient to upset the mental balance. (3.) The third kind is the hysterical, of which more in Chapter IV. CHAPTER III. TETANUS. SECTION I.—INTRODUCTORY. Definition.—Tetanus is a disease manifested by tonic or continuous spasm and rigidity of the muscles of voluntary motion. Division.—(1.) It is divided into the ■idiopathic, or that which arises from some disorder of the blood or nervous system without wound, and the traumatic, or that which is caused by a wound. (2.) Jt may be acute or chronic. (3.) It may be general or partial; and when partial it is mostly confined to the neck and jaws, consti- tuting trismus, or locked jaw. (4.) It is called opisthotonos, when the body is curved backwards, as it most commonly is ; emprosthotonos, when it is curved forward; and pleurosthotonos, when it is drawn to one side, this being the most uncommon. (5.) The trismus infantum, or neonatorum, which attacks children soon after birth, is usually made a distinct species. (6.) Tetanus may in its type be intermittent, when it is caused by marsh miasmata, as it may be occasionally, like almost every other nervous atFection. (7.) Lastly, there is the hysterical tetanus, in which all the outward symptoms of tetanus aie produced, as a consequence of an hysterical state of the system. section II.—ACUTE TETANUS. Symptoms.—The patient first complains of stiffness and pain of the neck and jaws, as from a cold ; his voice is husky; it is difficult * Copland's Diet. Art. Delirium; Graves's Clinical Medicine, 1843, p, 452 ;