VASCULAR TUMOUR. 350 depressed by a screw, each turn of which causes one drop of liquid to exude ; and during the operation, the artery should be compressed above, and the tumour be gently handled, so as to mix the perchloride with the blood as rapidly as possible. If it succeeds, the tumour is converted into a solid mass, and a little serum only exudes from the puncture.* 6. Medical Treatment.—In cases in which an operation is impossible the great object is to keep the circulation tranquil, without reducing the strength. The nervous system should be tranquillized by opm?n, or tobacco-smoking. Small bleedings may be performed in some cases, if the patient is plethoric, and the tumour increases rapidly, with violent pulsation ; but it should never be carried to faintness. The diet should be light and unstimulating, but highly nutritious to dispose to the formation of plastic fibrine. With the same view the administra- tion of the acid salts of iron, especially the perchloride, is much to be recommended. Bodily or mental excitement should be rigidly abstained from. Digitalis and tartar-emetic ?iv^ of questionable propriety. The acetate of lead, F. 75, is said to have the faculty of rendering the blood coagulable, and of diminishing the calibre of the arteries. It used to be mentioned in terms of commendation by Mr. Green, in his lectures at King's College, who gave some instances of its efficacy.f But it must be recollected that frequent bleeding and too rigid starvation will increase the irritability of the heart and arteries, and diminish the plasticity of the blood. Particular care should be taken not to ad- minister drastic purgatives; because they invariably cause a great excitement and throbbing of the arteries. SECTION VII.—VASCULAR TUMOURS, The Vascular Tumour (Ncbvus, Erectile Tumour, Telangeiec- tasis) consists, anatomically, of enlarged and dilated blood-vessels. It seems to consist in an overgrowth of these organs, and may affect capillaries, ai'teries, or veins, together or separately. In a great many cases of infantile origin it is very superficial, consisting of a mere red patch of dilated capillaries {mother's marks or stains with little or no elevation above the surrounding skin). In most cases there is a mass of dilated capillaries, inextricably packed together; and on a section, the great dilatation of the vessels, and the small quantity of intervening tissue, causes them to resemble a collection of cells rather than of tubes. * For an account of the older plans of causing coagulation, such as Sir E. Home's heated needle, the introduction of tlireads, and galvano-puncture, see South's Chelius, vol. ii. See also M. Pravaz's plan ot injecting the perchloride of iron, Lancet, 1853, vol. i. p. 561; Fergusson's Surgery, 3rd ed., p. 638 ; Broca, op. cit. Mr. Moore, of the Middlesex Hospital, has lately tried the plan of passing many yards of very thin iron wire into an aneurysm of the innominata; much coagulation took place, but the patient died. •J- See also a case of aneurysm of aorta cured by acetate of lead in large doses, Arch. Gen. de Med., Sept. 1839 ; see Mr. Fergusson's papers, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xl.