464 THE EUSTACHIAN TUBES. conditions, but does not appear itself to cause any very considerable degree of deafness. X. The Eustachian Tubes, as is well known, are passages be- tween the cavity of the tympanum and the throat, allowing the air to enter and escape from that cavity as may be required. But Mr. Toynbee has given good reason for believing that, contrary to the com- mon opinion, the tubes are not habitually open; and that so far from permitting constant and uninterrupted communication, their oridce is always closed, except during the act of swallowing. During this act, the tensor and levator palati muscles " open the guttural orifice of the tube, afford free egress to the mucus secreted by the lining membrane of the tympanum, and allow air to enter or leave the tympanic cavity." That this is so, is rendered probable by the circumstance that the act of swallowing gives relief to the uneasy feelings in the ear experienced by persons who descend in a diving-bell; which it does by allowing the condensed air to enter the tympanum, and so to make the pressure on its inner surface equal to that on its outer. " Again,'' says Mr. Toyn- bee, "if an attempt is made to swallow, while the nostrils are closed by the finger and thumb, a sensation of fulness and pressure is ex- perienced in the tympanic cavity, in consequence of the air being then forced, during the act of deglutition, through the open tube into the tympanum ; and this sensation continues until, by another act of swal- lowing, the tube is reopened, and the confined air escapes into the fauces," These things being premised, we are prepared to understand the nature of that which has been called throat deafness^ and which depends on the morbid states of the tympanum, extending from the throat through the Eustachian tubes. In the first place, the common catarrhal deafness,—the ringing and crackling noises in the ear, with which every one is familiar ; the change of sensation experienced on blowing the nose or swallowing—supplies the commonest instance. This, in most cases, is trivial, and soon gets well. But in delicate children it is often otherwise, and a slight but increasing amount of deafness remains, depending, no doubt, on a swelled condition of the tympanal membrane, and accompanied, as is natural, with a general flabby and relaxed condition of the mucous membrane of the nose and fauces. The same thing may happen to adults. This condition will be distinguished by the swelled tonsils and relaxed throat; by the aggravation each time cold is caught; by the sudden noises from bursting of mucous bubbles, heard by the patient, and by the surgeon through the otoscope. This is a flexible stethoscope, one end of which, expanded into a hollow bell, is put over the patient's ear, whilst the other is applied to the surgeon's. Then, if the patient be desired to close his nose and mouth firmly, and while doing so, to make an effort as in blowing the nose, or to swallow, the surgeon may hear the shock of air against the membrana tympani if the tubes are pervious; he will hear a squeeling or gurgling sound if they contain fluid ; whilst if they are impervious,