DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 670 that it may not wound the testicle. He next withdraws the trocar, at the same time pushing the canula well into the sac. Then, the old plan was to inject three or four ounces of some irritating liquid, such as port wine or zinc lotion, through the canula, by means of an elastic bottle fitted with a stop-cock, to let it remain a few minutes, and then let it run out, and withdraw the canula. But the remedy most in favour at present is the tincture of iodine, which was used with very great success at Calcutta, by Sir R. Martin. The disease is so common in the East, that Sir R. Martin can refer to thousands of successful cases. The sac having been punctured with a small trocar and canula, about one or two drachms of a mixture of one part tincture of iodine, and two of water are injected and allowed to remain in the sac. Mr. Fergusson uses for this purpose a small glass syringe, with a silver or platinum nozzle made to fit the canula. Mr. Curling recommends palladium. One advantage this method certainly has—namely, that there is much less chance of extravasation into the scrotum, than when the sac is filled with many ounces of fluid. Some amount of pain, inflammation, and effusion may be expected to follow ; and when they subside, the part generally secretes no longer. If it does, the operation must be repeated; or one of the older plans, such as a few threads passed through the sac, by way of seton, or an iron wire, as proposed by Dr. Simpson, may be tried. X. Encysted Hyrocele.—Sometimes a serous cyst is developed on or near the testis. Most frequently it is situated between the tunica vaginalis and epididymis ; very ^ rarely between the tunica vaginalis and testis, and more rarely still within the substance of the external layer of that tunic; sometimes in the spermatic cord. These cysts contain a clear liquid, in which sper- matozoa have been found; owing, as Mr. Curling has shown, to acci- dental I'upture of one of the ducts of the gland. They may be punc- tured with a grooved needle to let the fluid escape, if they have become of inconvenient bulk; and if it is necessary to adopt some radical me- thod of cure, the best plan seems to be to pass a thread or two through the sac with a curved needle, and retain it till it has caused some in- flammation. XI. HyE,MATOCELE signifies an extravasation of blood into the tu- * Eucysled hydrocele. From a preparation in Middlesex Hospital Museum.