441 AMAUROSIS. Prognosis.—Tf, in the acute or subacute form, vision is not much impaired, nor the iris altered, nor the pupil much contracted, the pro- gnosis may be favourable. Treatment.—For the acute, local bleeding, purgatives, mercury ad- ministered so as gently to affect the mouth; for the chronic form, a gentle course of mercury, and the antiphlogistic treatment generally, according to the urgency of the symptoms, and the strength of the patient. The eyes should not be closely covered, but the patient should be kept in a darkened apartment, observing at the same time that it is thoroughly ventilated. So soon as the symptoms abate, bark and change of air will be found of great service. SECTION XVI.—AMAUROSIS. Definition.—Imperfection of vision, depending on some change in the retina, optic nerve, or brain. Symptoms.—1. Of course the first and most prominent symptom is impairment of vision ; the mode and degree of which are, however, subject to very great variety. Sometimes the sight becomes suddenly dim, and is soon extinguished altogether; more frequently it becomes impaired by slow degrees ; and at first it is so only at intervals; after the eyes have been fatigued, for instance, or when the spirits are low, or the stomach disordered. Sometimes it commences as indistinct vision, or amblyopia; or as diplopia, objects appearing double ; or, as hemiopia, one-half only of the objects looked at being seen; or objects may appear crooked, disfigured, or discoloured ; or they may be seen covered with patches; or the affection may commence as near-sighted- ness or far-sightedness. The patient finds himself unable to estimate distances, and misses his aim when trying to snuff a candle, or pour wine into a glass. The flame of a candle generally appears split, lengthened, or broken into an iridescent halo. 2. Ocular spectra, sometimes in the form of floating black spots (musccB volitantes), sometimes as flashes of light, or as a coloured cloud or network.* 3. Sometimes incipient amaurosis is attended with great intolerance of light—sometimes, on the contrary, with a constant thirst for light, or feeling as if objects were not illuminated enough. 4. The patient walks with a peculiar uncertain gait, and his eyes have a vacant stare; the eyelids move imperfectly and seldom—the pupil is generally dilated (unless it be an incipient case attended with intolerance of light); the iris moves sluggishly, and in confirmed cases is totally motionless. But if one eye be sound, and be exposed to light during the examination, the pupillary movements may not be lost. The ophthalmoscope enables us to state with tolerable accuracy when the cause is strictly cerebral; for if with impairment or loss of sight, the eye looks perfectly healthy, we may without much doubt say that the disease is within the skull. * The student will do well to read Milton's account of his own blindness, as given in Dr. Johnson's Lives of the Poets, and in Travers's Treatise on the Eye.