APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 840- § VIII. Poultices. N.B. Before applying any poultice, it is well to smear the skin with glycerine, in order to hinder particles of bread, linseed, mustard, &c., from sticking. 152. Bran Poultice. Make a linen or flannel bag of the size requisite to cover the part affected, and fill it loosely with bran. Pour boiling water on this till it is thoroughly moistened; put it into a coarse towel, and wring it dry ; then apply it so soon as it is cool enough. 153. Bread Poultice. " I shall now speak,"' says Mr. Abernethy, "of the bread and water poultice. The way in which I direct it to be made is the fol- lowing:—Put half a pint of hot waf er into a pint basin : add to this as much of the crumb of bread as the water will cover: then place a plate over the basin and let it remain about ten minutes; stir the bread about in the water, or, if necessary, chop it a little with the edge of the knife, and drain off the water by holding the knife on the top of the basin, but do not press the bread, ao is usually done ; then take it out lightly, and spread it about one-third of an inch thick on some soft linen, and lay it upon the part." A very admi) able soft poultice for parts that are excoriated, or that threaten to slough from pressure, during long illnesses, may be made by mixing equal parts of bread-crumbs and of mutton suet grated very fine, with a little boiling water, and stirring them in a saucepan over the fire till they are well incorporated. 154. Linseed Meal Poultice. The highest authority on poultices was Mr. Abernethy, who seemed to revel in the idea of them. " Scald your basin," he says, " by pour- ing a little hot water into it, then put a small quantity of finely-ground linseed meal into the basin, pour a little hot water on it, and stir it round briskly until you have well incorporated them; add a little more meal and a little more water, then stir it again. Do not let any lumps remain in the basin, but stir the poultice well, and do not be sparing of your trouble. If properly made, it is so well worked together, that you might throw it up to the ceiling, and it would come down again without falling in pieces; it is, in fact, like a pancake. What you do next, is to take as much of it out of the basin as you may re- quire, lay it on a piece of soft linen, let it be about a quarter of an inch thick, and so wide that it may cover the whole of the inflamed part." 155. Yeast Poultice, R. Farinse lb. j.; cerevisise fermenti f^. Misce, e.t calorem lenem adhibe donee intumeseant. (Pharm. Lond.)