FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 581 deficient on its fundus. 4. The sac. Between the last two there is often found a considerable layer of sub-peritonseal fat, which might be mistaken for omentum. Femoral hernia rarely attains a very large size. It is much more frequent in the female than in the male, obviously from the greater breadth of the pelvis, and greater span of the crural arch.* Diagnosis.—1. Femoi'al hernia may be distinguished/rom the in- guinal by observing that Poupart's ligament can be traced over the neck of the sac, and that the spinous process of the pubes lies internal to and above it; whereas it is the reverse in the inguinal hernia. Supposing that a large femoral hernia is so fixed that it will not allow the course of Poupart's ligament to be traced, the diagnostic mark pointed out by James, of Exeter, may be attended to, to wit, that an inguinal hernia descends towards the labium, a femoral may mount upwards and out- wards to near the spinous pi'ocess of the ilium. This difference, accord- ing to Mr. Wood, is also found in the direction of the cough impulse. If the abdominal rings be examined, and found unoccupied by the tumour, all doubt as to its crural nature is removed.f 2. Psoas abscess resembles this hernia in its situation, in dilating on coughing, and diminishing when the patient lies down. The points of distinction are, that it is generally more Fig. 18.J external, that it fluc- tuates, but does not feel tympanitic, and that it is attended with symptoms of dis- ease of the spine. 3. Varix of the femoral vein also re- sembles this hernia, inasmuch as it dilates somewhat on cough- ing, and diminishes when the patient lies down; but then if pressure be made be- low Poupart's liga- ment, the swelling quickly reappears, al- though it must be evi- dent that under such circumstances a hernia could not come down. * Mr. Partridge informed the author that he had met with a case of femoral hernia, protruding below Poupart's ligament, external to the vessels, t James, On Operations for Strangulated Hernia, &c., London, 1859, p. 10. X The cut, talcen from a preparation of Mr. Fergnsson's in the King's College