FISSURE OF THE PALATE. 483 bone forceps, one blade being introduced into the nostrils, the other into the mouth. Secondly, the body of the superior maxilla must be sawed horizontally across just below the orbit, and the severance be completed as before by forceps ; and lastly, the tumour must be grasped most firmly with a strong pair of clawed forceps used by Mr. Fergusson (the Lion Forceps), and must be forcibly wrenched from its attachment to the pterygoid plates of the sphenoid ; and so it may be removed. Again, let us suppose that the entire bone is so implicated that the whole of it, including the floor of the orbit, must be extirpated; then, in addition to the division of the hard palate as before, the ascending nasal process must be cut through at the level of the orbit, and the malar bone likewise at its middle. If the malar bone requires to be removed as well, the zygoma, and the process which unites it with the frontal, must be divided. The contents of the orbit must be separated by careful dissection, and be held up with a bent spatula. When the processes of bone just mentioned have been cut through, the tumour must, as before, be forcibly moved, to separate it from the pterygoid and lachrymal bones, and dislodge it; the infraorbital nerve must be gently divided behind ; in all cases the soft palate should be left untouched; and an incision carried along in front of it to the last molar tooth, should be made at the beginning of the proceedings. During the operation, the common carotid may be compressed, to pre- vent haemorrhage. After it, the facial, and any other arteries that re- quire it, are to be tied, the chasm to be'filled with lint, and the wound closed with sutures.* IV. Fissure of the Palate.—As the upper lip may be fissured through defective development, so also may the various parts consti- tuting the hard and soft palate. In some cases the uvula merely is fissured ; in others, the cleft extends forwards as far as the lips, and may be combined with a hare-lip. The fissure in the hard and soft palates is invariably in the middle line, but when it extends forwards through the alveoli, it diverges somewhat to one side. In a few cases the fissure is double in front, so that it may, as a whole, be compared to the letter Y, the two lines in front having the pre-maxillary bones between them. This affection, when extensive, necessarily causes very great difficultv * See Fergusson's Practical Surgery, 3rd edit., p. 618; Listen on Tumours of the Face, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx.; Paget's Lectures, vol. li.; Henry Smith, Med. Times, April 17, 1852; E. G. H. Butcher, Dublin Quarterly Joum. Jled. Science, 1853.