VARICOSE VEINS. 362 and fastening. First, a common curved suture needle, armed with thread, is passed fairly under and across the vein. The end of the thread is then fastened to a loop or bend in the middle of the wire, which is drawn through double after the thread and detached. Then the pin is passed through the same punctures, between the skin and the vein, i. e., on the opposite side of the vessel to the double wii e. This can easily be accomplished by pinching up the skin between the finger and thumb, and slipping the vein out from between them by a slight rolling motion. The wire loop is then slipped over the end of the pin, and the latter cut off a short distance from the punc- ture. The ends of the wire are then crossed under the shaft of the pin, twisted round the bent part, fastened through the loop, and cut off. Then by twisting the pin upon its own axis, the wire is gradually tightened upon the vein, and can be made to grip tighter as the latter ulcerates through, by giving a turn to the pin. When it is desirable to withdraw the pin and wire, it can be done with very little pain by untwisting the ends of the wire from the pin and drawing out the latter in the usual way. This sets free the wire, which can then be also easily withdrawn without the delay of waiting (if not desirable) until the whole of the enclosed tissues are completely ulcerated throrigh. Two punctures only are left, which heal up rapidly after the wire is withdrawn. Usually no suppuration follows. No irritating pressure is made upon the punctures, as in the apparatus used sometimes for tightening the threads. By the use of metal instead of thread, there is less chance of retention of putrid or purulent matter in contact with the living and absorbing tissues, and of pyaemia, while complete divi- sion of the vein by a double acupressure is effected. Both before and after any of these operations, care must be taken to avoid every cause of inflammation; because any of them may be followed by abscess or pyaemia, if precaution be neglected.f II. Phlebolites are calcareous concretions, formed by the de- * This diagram gives an imaginary view from behind the vein, t Vide Arnott in Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xv.