AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 780 A stout bistoury, with a blade four to five inches long, and a broad saw, are the only cutting instruments required. The flaps are made of integuments only by cutting from the surface without transfixion, the point of the knife is entered on the side about two inches below the tibial tubercle, and carried across the front of the leg, describing a curved flap rather longer than the half diameter of the limb, and of the exact width of the semi-diameter. The flap is then dissected up close to the bones and deep fascia. A flap exactly similar is then made on the posterior aspect (see diagram), and the integu- ments composing it are raised^from the muscles. The latter, with the large vessels and nerves, are then divided transversely, direct to the bones. The bones are then equally sawn across. Mr. Syme usually commences by laying on the saw obliquely downwards to cut off the projecting corner of the tibia, and then reapplies it in a direct position. Mr. Liston occasionally excised the head of the fibula altogether at the same time; but this was found to open the knee-joint. 2. Oval Amputation through the calf.—An oval incision is made in the direction shown in the cut, through skin and fat; these are thoroughly drawn back; the incision is carried upwards obliquely through the gastrocnemius to the bones, so as to make a posterior flap; this being well pulled up, the remaining soft parts around and between the bones are divided ; lastly, the bones are sawn through. The inte- guments are brought together in a transverse line. The objection to this method is, that from retraction of the muscles in the posterior flap, the front edge of the cut tibia may be left bar-e, and become necrosed, or give rise to a tender stump. 3. The single flap operation is performed by Mr. Fergusson in an ele- gant and expeditious manner, thus:—He first places the heel of the knife on the side of the limb farthest from him, and di-aws it across the front of the limb, cutting a semilunar flap of skin ; when its point has arrived at the opposite side, it is at oirce made to transfix the limb: * Single flap amputation; tire limb transfixed.