369 CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. Consequences—1. In cases not attended with severe lesion, the patient suft'ers from some degree of headache and feverishness for a few- days, which may be easily aggravated into a fatal inflammation of the brain. 2. If the concussion be very severe, it may be followed by death ; and there is no doubt but that it is attended with more or less of contusion, ecchymosis, rupture, and extravasation of blood in small specks, or in larger masses ; and that in the cases formerly described, in which persons were said to have died of concussion purely, without anatomical lesion, there was some injury of the spine or disease of the heart to account for death. And the word concussion really means contusion.* The degree of danger in any case may be estimated by the degree in which the spinal and ganglionic systems appear to be implicated. If, therefore, the pulse and I'espiration continue teeble for many hours ; if the eyelids do not move when irritated, and the legs are not drawn up when the soles of the feet are tickled, the prognosis will be serious. 3. Concussion is occasionally succeeded by a peculiar ■ state of insensibility, which may last some days. The patient lies as if in a tranquil sleep ; his pulse is regular ; but on the slightest exertion it rises to 130 or 140, and the carotids beat vehemently; when roused he answers questions, but immediately relapses into miconsciousness. Some patients in this state resemble somnambulists; they may get out of bed, bolt the door, shave, or make water, but still are insensible to what passes around. 4, It may leave a very infirm state of the health and intellect; impairment of the memory, or of the senses, especially of smell and hearing ; and a constant tendency to inflammation, and to exti'avagant actions after drink or any other excitement. Pathology.—The early symptoms, it will be seen, are partly those of impaired cerebral function, partly those of collapse, or sj^ncope. Vide p. 1. It is commonly said that concussion may prove fatal without any injury that can be discovered by dissection; but Dr. Bright pointed out, many years ago, that the brain may be studded with minute ecchymoses, the size of pins' heads. The difference of injuries, however, inflicted slowly and gently, fi'om those inflicted suddenly and with violence, is remarkable. As Mayo long ago observed, great part of the brain of an animal may be gently and quietly sliced away with little or no eflect; but if ever so small a portion be suddenly ci-ushed, the heart stops directly.f * See Mr. Prescott Hewett's Lectures, Med. Times and Gaz., ISS^S. f " The English dragoon sword is so blunt that the strongest man cannot drive it through the head-dress of the Sikh or Afghan; nevertheless the enemy is most often beaten from his horse, and frequently killed by the violence of the shock. Not so, however, with the trenchant blade of the Sikh: this weapon, wielded by a strong man, will cut through any head-piece, and bury itself per- haps in the brain; and yet you find no symptoms of concussion or compression. In the former example the soldier is effectually disabled, often killed outright; in the latter, although the individual is mortally wounded, he may be able to continue the fight, and even to kill his antagonist, before he falls himself dead or dying from his horse."—Cole's Field Practice in India, p. 45. See also a very able paper in the B. and F. Quarterly, Jan. 1853, by Dr. Pv. C. Williams. D 2 B