CAEBUNCLE. 229 established, a clean cut with a sharp lancet: if, however, the lump be indolent, incision does no good ; during the last stage of the acute, and during the whole course of the chronic, stimulating applications, such as resin or Peruvian balsam ointment; or painting with tincture of iodine. The constitutional treatment must be at first eliminative ; that is, the bowels should be emptied, and the tongue cleaned by a grain or two of calomel, &c., F. 37 or 38 ; and the diet should be re- gulated ; but if successive crops come out, alteiatives and ti'uics should be given. Tlie liquor potassge in drachm-doses twice daily (or the liq. sodge, which cured John Hunter) has a good reputation in these cases; but of late years it has more frequently failed than not, and it appears that tonics, especially the preparation of bark with acids F. 1, &c., are the most useful remedies. Where there is no obvious derangement of the general health which may serve as a key to the treatment, and when general remedies fail, a thorough change of air should be tried. The writer has effected many cures by sending the patients to Paris, after a short course of tonic and alterative treatment. XI. Carbuncle {anthrax) is an exaggerated boil. An oval or irregular portion of skin, varying in size from that of a hazel nut to that of an egg ; or, perhaps, very much larger, becomes infiltrated with unhealthy lymph, forming a hard, dull-red swelling ; very tender, with a heavy aching pain. After a few days of gradual increase, soft- ening and suppuration occurs at several parts, which become of a duller red, and more prominent, and yield an obscure sense of fluctua- tion. Then follows ulceration of these points, forming round apertures, giving exit to a thin ichor ; but if pressure be made, a thick glutinous matter may be squeezed out. The ulcerated apertures enlarge and meet; much viscid stuff is discharged, mixed with softened fibrous ex- udation, and with sloughs of the areolar tissue, and the wound slowly granulates and heals. Such is the course of carbuncle, if left to itself. It is always an indication of vitiated blood, and has the same series of causes as the boil, but there is some utterly unknown cause, which has produced a most extensive visitation of these maladies during the last few years. When large, especially if situated on the head or face, it is liable to be attended with violent fever, followed by great, and, perhaps, fatal prostration of strength. The treatment is that of erysipelas. Since it is a blood disorder, efficient means should be taken at first to produce a full discharge of bile and urine, F. 33, &c. The strength should be kept up by soup, and brandy or wine, at discretion. Opiates should be given to allay pain, and quinine or Liq. cinch, fl. with nitric acid to recruit the strength. Fomentations and poultices should be used to hasten suppuration. It is generally agreed that the cure may be hastened by measures for letting out sloughs and dis- charge. In some cases it is beneficial to cut through the swelling whilst haid and brawny; but it is usually better to defer this till sup- puration has commenced, and then thoroughly to cut through the infil- trated tissues, and insure a free dischai-ge of all pus and sloughs; after this to apply warm poultices with the resin or creosote ointment.