DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 413 2. Staphyloma of the cornea is said to exist when a portion or the. whole of the cornea, whose texture has been disorganized by injury or disease, has perished ; and the cicatrix with which the iris has become covered, bulges before the pres- sure of the humours of the eye, and forms an opaque white promi- nence. If partial, it is usual to recommend that the nitrate of silver or butter of antimony be applied to the apex of the staphy- loma, so that the inflammation excited may thicken the cornea, and enable it to resist further protrusion; tlie caustic to be well washed off with milk before the lids are closed. But besides sym- pathetically affecting the other eye, it is seldom that the use either of the nitrate of silver or butter of antimony cheeks the increase of staphy- loma, and sooner or later the eye collapses from the necessarily extensive use of the knife. Therefore, when the staphyloma is still limited, Mr. H. Walton shaves it off; by which means the cut part fi-equently cica- ti'izes, and no further protrusion is efteeted. This treatment is appli- cable to small staphylomata, and especially those that rise suddenly, and have a small, well-defined base. VIII. Hernia Corner.—When the cornea is nearly perforated by an ulcer, a thin transparent vesicle is apt to protrude fi'om the aperture, <;onsisting of a tliin lamella of the cornea; the posterior elastic mem- brane. The best plan is to keep the eyelids closed for a few days. Cicatrization to the edges of the cornea soon ensues. IX. Conical Cornea.—In this curious affection the cornea retains its transparency, but assumes, more or less, a conical form, the apex being generally central. As it increases it causes almost total depriva- tion of vision, which, however, can be partially remedied by looking through a minute apertui-e in a piece of blackened wood, and sometimes by using concave glasses; sometimes by a combination of the concave glasses with the wood having the hole in it, or a perforated diaphi'agm set in a spectacle-frame. Mr, Bowman * recommends that the pupil should be limited in size and altered in position. He performs an " iriddesis " downwards, and in a week or ten days again operates upwards. The pupil thus assumes the form of a vertical slit, like the pupil of a cat. The results of his operations have been satisfactory. See Artificial Pupil. X. Arcus Senilis is the name given to a circumfei'ential opacity of the cornea, which has been shown by Mr. Canton to depend on fatty degeneration. As its name implies, it is most generally met with in the aged, and affects each eye symmetrically. When existing in one * Ophthalmic Hosp. Reports, Oct. 1S59.