SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 95 old-fashioned vinum ferri, and the aromatic mixture of the Dublin Pharmacopoeia—to the more astringent and stimulating chloride, F. 10, 20. The sulphate of zinc, the nitro-mui'iatic and sulphuric acids, and various bitter substances, are also useful. (8.) Anti-strumous remedies.—There are some medicines which have obtained repute from their supposed power of improving the condition of the blood: and possibly from their solvent power over morbid de- posits. Such are iodine and its compounds with potassium or with iron ; the liquor potassae; lime-water; the combination of corrosive sublimate with tincture of bark ; the chlorides of barium and of lime ; the extract or decoction of walnut leaves. Of these remedies, the pre- parations of iodine have the greatest repute, F. 88-95. The waters of Kreuznach are good during the winter. Alkalis are often of great service under certain conditions. They are especially indicated if the patient complains of heartburn or great thirst, or if the tongue is very red, or if there is a sinking and craving for food soon after meals, or acid eructations, or other dyspepsia, or red irritating urine. F. 77. Sarsaparilla, V. 84, 85, seems to improve the powers of nutrition generally, and may always be given in cachectic diseases for which there is no palpable cause. Sweetwort is as good. (9.) Purgatives are often necessary to sweep away the refuse left by an imperfect digestion ; and besides it is fair to believ^e that the tendency to local disease will be greatly lessened by a pure state of the blood. In some cases the gentlest alteratives, F. 65, in others, mere aperients are required; whilst in the case of active strumous disease of skin or mucous membrane, of a congestive or ulcerative sort, with foul tongue, big belly, and loaded urine, the greatest possible benefit is sometimes derivable from efficient doses of calomel with scammony ; or more especially of that admirable compound of rhubarb and polychrest salt which has obtained repute as a specific, F. 37, 38, 41. Of course we exclude cases in which a red tongue and relaxed state of bowels indicate a tendency to ulceration of the in- testines, and in which soothing absorbent remedies, F. 79, are indicated. (10.) Anodynes.—Pain, when violent, must be relieved by opium or other anodynes; and the extract of conium, in regular doses thrice a day, may be of service when there are intractable ulcers. SECTION II.—PARTICULAR SCROFULOUS DISEASES. I. The Skin is particularly liable to suffer from pustular and sup- purative maladies; especially behind the ears, on the scalp, and about the mouth, nose, and eyelids. These eruptions are generally contagious. Treatment.—The general health must be attended to, according to the foregoing rules, and the local disease be treated by the frequent use of soap and water, and the application of the ointment of oxide of zinc, or of white precipitate or nitrate of mercury, or the black wash.