AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. ' 777 SECTION II.—AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. This operation is requisite in cases in which the upper extremity of the thigh-bone is smashed, and in which the soft parts are so injured that it is of no use to attempt excision. " No man," says Mr. Guthrie," should suffer amputation at the hip-joint when the thigh- bone is entire. It should never be done in cases of injury when the bone can be sawn through immediately behind the trochanter major, and sufficient flaps can be preserved to close the wound thus made. An injury warranting this operation should extend to the neck or head of the bone, and it may be possible, as I have proposed, even then to avoid it by removing the broken parts." * It is generally by flaps ; either anterior and posterior, or lateral. The writer saw it performed in the year 1835 by Mr. Herbert Mayo at the Middlesex Hospital in the following manner ;— The femoral artery was first tied immediately below Poupart's liga- ment. This was the rule of that day, but was quite unnecessary. The artery should be compressed during the operation, and its cut orifice be tied immediately afterwards. The patient bemg in the recumbent posture at the edge of the table, and the limb held out horizontally, a long knife was thrust through the limb immediately on the inner side of the joint, and carried for- wards and inwards, and made to cut the inner flap from the adductor muscles. This flap should be immediately grasped by an assistant, who should compress the femoral artery. In the next place, Mr. Mayo cut into the hip-joint with a short strong curved knife, and severed the ligamentum teres and the muscles attached to the digital fossa. Lastly, putting in the long knife over the trochanter, he cut downwards and outwards to make the outer flap. This amputation, excluding the preliminary tying of the femoral artery, was most brilliantly accomplished in twenty-eight seconds; yet would scarcely in the present day be justified, since it was performed upon a young woman to get rid of neuralgia from a stump, which had undergone two previous amputations. Of the method by anterior and posterior flaps, as practised by Mr. Listen, a very good example is afforded by a case of Mr. Tatum's at St. George's Hospital in July, 1855. The thigh having been slightly bent and abducted, the knife was entered at the outside at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of a line drawn from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the great trochanter. It was carried obliquely inwards and downwards immediately in front of the joint, and brought out about two inches below the tuberosity of the ischium. "Cutting my way out," says Mr. Tatum, " I made a large anterior flap, which was at once firmly grasped, so as to prevent the possibility * Guthrie, Commentaries, 6th edit., p. 63.