470 HARE-LIP. the end of the septum navium. Sometimes the upper incisor teeth and their alveoli project through the fissure in the lip. Treatment.—The first consideration is the age at which treatment shall be undertaken. Sir A. Cooper used to recommend that it should be put oft' till the child was two years old, and had cut some teeth, because of the supposed liability of young infants to be carried off" by convulsions ; but Mr. Fergusson and most modern surgeons believe the risk to be overrated, and prefer operating as soon as possible. Mr. Henry Smith has operated on the fourth day, and Mr. Bateman, of Islington, on the fourth hour after birth with success. Infants may die (just as little Jews die sometimes after circumcision), but such an event is especially rare. The second point to be considered is, how to deal with the bone, should it project through the fissure. The old plan was to cut it off; but conservatism has gained the day here, as in most other departments of medicine, and at present the plan proposed by Gensoul, and im- proved by Haynes Walton, is adopted, of cutting perpendicularly through the alveolus with bone forceps between the incisor teeth, and gently bending back the projecting part to a convenient level. In some cases related in Cooper's Dictionary, this object was gained by the use of a truss worn for several hours daily; but if the operation is per- formed soon after birth, there will be no time for this. The next step is one recommended by Mr. Walton; and consists in freely detaching the lip from the bones behind, so that it may hang loosely, and be brought together easily. Fourthly, the edges of the fissure are to be pai-ed. We take it for granted that the child has been quieted by chloroform, and that it is laid flat on the lap of a nurse, with its head on the knees of the surgeon, who sits in front. Then the bone having been bent back if necessary, and the lip freed as just described, the surgeon, seizing the lip by the corner of the fissure with his left forefinger and thumb, pierces it with a narrow knife at the top of the fissure just under the nose, and carries the insti'ument down- wards, so as to shave off the edge of the fissure ; and it is better to remove too much than too little. There is a nice manoeuvre that should be adopted in finishino- the incision. The knife should not be carried straight down, but should be carried inwards, in the direction shown in the cut, so as to save the very bottom of the cleft; by this means, when the parts are healed, there will be less of a notch left. This process is repeated on the other side, and the two strips are next detached from the upper angle. The edges of the fissure being thus made raw, the next step is to bring them into the nicest adaptation possible, and to keep them so. The usual method employed is the twisted suture. Three fine lancet- pointed needles are thrust through the raw edges of the fissure. They