INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 388 or some such contrivance, so as to counteract that tendency to effusion which there always is when the natural support of any part of the body is taken away.* If the swelling increase very fast, and the surgeon is inchned to try the effect of a puncture, he should, at all events, strictly observe the following rules laid down by Mr. P. Hewett. 1st. " The tumour should never be punctured along the mesial line, especially in the sacral region; for it is generally at this point that the cord and its nerves are connected with the sac. The puncture is to be made at one side of the sac, and at its lowest part, so as to diminish the risk of wounding any of the nervous branches. 2nd. " The instrument ought to be a needle or a small trochar ; for, if a lancet is used, there will be a greater risk of wounding some im- portant part contained in the cavity of the tumour."t After puncture, very great attention should be paid to proper sup- port by bandages. VII. Cancer of the Spinal Column. When severe and continued pain in some part of the spine, with more or less derangement of the nervous functions, and perhaps some perceptible tumour, occur in a patient afiected with cancer, the probability is, that some of the mor- bid growth is deposited in or near the vertebrse.J SECTION II.—INJURIES OF THE SPINE. I. Concussion.—Violent blows or bendings of the spine are liable to produce very serious injury to the spinal cord. Sometimes they cause an immediate paralysis of the parts below the seat of the injury, which gradually passes off, and thus resembles the effects of concussion of the brain; sometimes they are followed by inflammation, which requires prompt antiphlogistic measures, in order to avert permanent paraplegia or death, II. Extravasation op Blood.—A severe blow on the back some- times causes an extravasation of blood into the spinal canal, which, as it increases, causes compression of the cord and paraplegia. III. Dislocation and Fracture.—Dislocation of the spine is rare, except in the cervical region; but it occasionally does occur even in the lumbar and dorsal without any accompanying fracture. When fracture occurs, it generally passes transversely across the body and arch of the vertebrse. The ill consequences of these accidents will, of course, be proportioned to the amount of injury inflicted on the spinal cord; and if that escapes compression, the consequences may not be serious. Thus it may happen that one or more spinous processes may be broken off; or that the cervical vertebris may be twisted round; and the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae have been displaced back- * See a successful case treated by Sir A. Cooper in this way, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. ii. f See Cases of spina bifida, with remarks by Prescott Hewett, Lond. Med. Gaz., 1844. X Ceesar Hawkins, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxiv.