620 FISTULA IN PERIN^O. in the following way:—A patient, who has long been labouring under difficulty of micturition, has a fit of spasmodic retention more obsti- nate than usual. He is repeatedly getting out of bed, and straining with all his might to pass his water. At last, during one violent etFort, he plainly feels that something has given way; his painful sense of distension becomes immediately less, and he is very well pleased, and thinks himself better. And perhaps he is now able to make a little water by the natural passage, because the stricture generally relaxes, when, by any means whatever, it is relieved from the former pressure. But at the time when something seemed to yield, the urethra burst; the urine was forced by the whole power of the abdominal muscles into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, perinseum, and groins; the patient soon complains of a smarting or tingling about the anus and perinseum; the urine, which has become putrid and concentrated by long confinement in the bladder, speedily causes inflammation and sloughing; the skin over the infiltrated parts displays a reddish blush, which is soon succeeded by black spots of gangrene; low typhoid symptoms appear; the tongue is black, the pulse begins to falter, the skin is clammy ; low muttering delirium and hiccup come on ; and the patient soon departs this life, unless proper measures are taken for his relief. A black spot on the glans penis, indicating that the urine has penetrated the corpus spongiosum, is a very fatal sign. Treatment.—A staff or catheter must be passed as far as possible, and it may sometimes be passed quite into the bladder, because, as was observed above, the stricture generally relaxes after the bladder is unloaded, be it how it may: the perineum must be incised in the middle line, and at the same time free incisions must be made into any parts that are swelled or emphysematous, showing that they have been pervaded by the urine. The first points necessary for the patient's safety, viz., the relief of the bladder, and the escape of putrid pus and urine being thus provided for, the surgeon must use his own discretion as to meddling with the strictured part then, or reserving it till the patient has rallied a little. The urethra may also be ruptured by blows or kicks on the peri- njeum, or by accidents that fracture the bones of the pelvis. The symptoms will be pretty evident. The patient will be unable to make water; or if he attempts it, the urine will be extravasated into the perinasum and scrotum. There will also be bleeding. The treatment consists in introducing a full-sized catheter into the bladder, and re- taining it for twenty-four hours; and in incising the perinajum if urine has been extravasated. III. Fistula in Perin^eo, or Urinary Fistula, signifies an opening from the perinaium into the urethra, through which the urine dribbles when the patient makes water. It is a frequent consequence of urinary abscess and extravasation. Treatment.—The first and most essential measure is, to restore the urethra to a healthy state, and to dilate any strictures that may happen to exist, by the bougie. When this has been done, the fistula should