605 SPASMODIC STRICTURE. III. Spasmodic Stricture generally affects persons who are already labouring tinder some slight degree of permanent stricture, or whose urethra has been rendered irritable by repeated attacks of gonor- rhoea, or by a diseased condition of the urine; these, therefore, are the predisposing causes. The usual exciting causes are, exposure to cold and wet, and indulgence in liquor, which disorders the stomach, and renders the urine unusually irritating. Hence, an attack of spasmodic stricture generally comes on at night. It may also be caused by can- tharides, whether taken by the mouth, or absorbed from blisters ap- plied to the skin. Like irritation of the bladder, it may be a symptom of gout. It may likewise be caused by sexual excitement and by piles and other sources of irritation of the rectum or bowels. Symptoms.—The patient finds himself unable to pass his water, although he has a great desire, and makes repeated straining efforts to do so. The bladder soon becomes distended, and can be felt as a tense, round tumour above the pubes ; and unless relief is given, the counte- nance becomes anxious, the pulse quick, and the skin hot. The strain- ing efforts at micturition also become more frequent and violent, and the distress and restlessness a)-e extreme. In this way the patient may, perhaps, go on for many days; a little urine passing occasionally when the spasm is less urgent, but the bladder still remaining loaded, till re- lieved by ti'eatment. If not relieved, and if the urethra wei'e previously diseased, either the bladder may burst into the peritonaeum; or, as more frequently happens, the urethra behind the stricture (which, of course, becomes dilated and weakened under the pressure of the urine impelled by the whole force of the abdominal muscles) bursts into the perinseum, and give rise to extravasation of urine, as will be described in the third section. The inflammatory stricture, in which great pain and tenderness of the perinseum, and fever, are combined with spasm, is generally caused by abuse of injections, or by exposure and intemperance during acute gonorrhoea. The treatment of this and of the spasmodic variety must be the same. Treatment.—The surgeon's proceedings must be regulated by the duration of the retention, and the amount of distension of the bladder, and by the previous history of the patient, as to the time during which the urinary organs have been diseased, and as to the exciting cause of the retention. If the symptoms are not extreme, if they have been brought on by cold or conviviality, and there is no history of old stricture, a hot bath and continued fomentations, with a full dose of opium, and followed by castor-oil, or F. 38, will often relieve the patient. In cases in which there is no need of an aperient, a full dose of opium or Dover's powder, or an opiate enema or suppository, or a whiff of chloroform will suf- fice f for it is the great object to stop all violent voluntary efforts, and when they are discontinued the bladder will often empty itself easily. In inflammatory cases it may be requisite to leech or cup from the perinseum, or even to bleed, or give antimony; and large draughts of