HYDROPHOBIA. 180 vorous animals to show their rage by biting. Bresohet, in the cotirse of numerous experiments on the subject, repeatedly infected dogs with the saUva of rabid horses and asses. One curious fact demonstrated by these experiments is, that when rabbits, or other rodentia, and birds are inoculated with the saliva of rabid animals, they very soon die, but without exhibiting any of the ordinary symptoms of hydro- phobia.* In the horse the disease commences with great distress and terror, and profuse sweating ; he soon becomes frantic and outrageous, stamping, snorting, and kiclving.f In the sheep, the symptoms are similar. An instance is recorded in which eight sheep weie bitten, and became rabid: they were exceedingly furious, running and butting at every person and thing, but did not bite. They drank freely.:|. There are several points connected with the propagation of hydro- phobia which are still involved in great uncertainty. It is not known whether the saliva is the poisonous agent, or whether some poisonous matter may be secreted by the mouth, fliuces, or lungs, and mixed with it. This, however, is not a point of much consequence; but again, it is uncertain whether the whole solids and fluids of the animal are not poisonous also. In fact, there is some reason for believing that the disease may be communicated by the mother's milk.§ More- over, it appears that it may be communicated by contact of the dog's saliva with the skin, or mucous membrane, without any wound or abrasion. II In a case related by Dr. Watson,*[f the dog's tooth merely indented the skin of the back of the hand, but made no wound. Lastly, a point of more importance and uncertainty than any is, whether the bite of an animal in health, or of one merely enraged, may not cause the disease : it is very certain, at all events, that the bite of an animal will prove fatal long before it exhibits any outward symptoms of rabies. Symptoms in Man.—At a variable period after a bite, or after some other mode of inoculation with the saliva of a rabid animal (which period is generally from five weeks to three months, sometimes much longer, possibly even one or two years), the attention of the patient is directed to a peculiar pain of the wounded part, together with slight heat, redness, and swelling. The pain is observed to shoot in the course of the nervous trunks, and has in general a rheumatic character. Sometimes, instead of it, there is a stiffness or numbness, or partial palsy. In some cases it is unattended with redness or swell- * Bresohet sur quelques Recherches experimentales sur la Rage. L'Experi- ence, Oct. 8tb, 1840. t Blaine's Outlines of the Veterinary Art, 2nd edit. Lond. 1816. J Lancet, 1829-30, vol. ii. p. 511. $ Two ewes were bitten by a mad dog, and died hydrophobic. One had two lambs, the other one; all three of which were seized with the disease a week afterwards, although they had not been bitten by the dog, nor, as was supposed, by the mothers.—Steele, Med. Gaz., Oct. 25th, 1839. |] Hutchinson, Lancet, Dec. 8th, 1838. 4[ Lectures, Med. Gaz., May Ttb, 1841.