582 FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 4. Bubo and other tumours of the groin may in most cases be re- cognised by their general character and history, and by their being un- attended with symptoms of inflammation or obstruction of the bowels. But if there be any such swelling, and sj'^mptoms of strangulation as well, an incision should certainly be made to examine it; for there may be a tumour that may be satisfactorily proved to be an enlarged gland, and yet there may be a small knuckle of intestine strangulated behind it. 5. Lastly, the possibility of there being a strangulated obturator hernia behind the femoral hernia should not be lost sight of. Treatment.—1. The reducible femoral hernia should be supported by a truss, the pad of which should tell against the hollow which is just infei-ior and extei-nal to the spinous process of the pubes. This hernia is very seldom cured radically ; only a few cases are recorded. For femoral rupture, in suitable cases affecting young and healthy women, Mr. Wood has devised an operation by which a wire is made to traverse Poupart's ligament twice, across the neck of the hernia] sac, fixing it firmly to the fascia lata covering the pectineus muscle inside the femoral vessels. This operation also is done without invagination of the skin, by a small incision, and the use of the same kind of needle and wire as in the operation for the inguinal variety, the after-treatment being the same as before described. This surgeon, however, only recommends the operation in excep- tional cases of femoral hernia in women, since their less laborious occu- pations, less necessity for muscular exertion, and more voluminous dress, render the use of a truss more convenient and effective than is usual in men. 2. The irreducible should be supported by a truss with a hollow pad; or perhaps (if it be omental) the pressure of a common pad may be borne. 3. The femoral hernia, when strangulated, gives rise to much severer symptoms than the inguinal does, because of the denser and more un- yielding nature of the parts which surround the neck of the sac. In performing the taxis, the patient should be placed in the usual position, with the thigh of the affected side much rolled inwards, and crossed over towards the other side. The tumour should first be drawn down- wards, from the anterior part of Poupart's ligament, and then be pressed with the points of the fingers backwards and upwards. If, howevei', the taxis and chloroform do not succeed, the operation should be resorted to. Museum, shows a femoral hernia with its relation to the other parts which pass under Poupart's ligament. Externally are seen sections of the iliacus and psoas muscles, with the crural nerve between them; then the femoral artery and vein ; next the hernia, which passes through a small aperture occupied by an absorbent gland in the normal state, and is bounded by Gimbernat's liga- ment on its inner side. The hernia passes downwards in the sheath of the femoral vessels, separated, however, from the vein, as that Is from the artery, by a process of cellular tissue. The sheath of the vessels is continuous above with the fascia transversalis.