646 LITHOTKITY. phatic. Stones have been known to A'ary in weight from a few grains to forty-four ounces, and in number from one to one hundi'ed and forty-two. Mr. C. Mayo, of Winchester, extracted one weighing four- teen ounces and a half, but it was brol^en; the patient lived several years, Gooch tells us that Mr, Harmer, of Norwich, in the year 1746, extracted one entire which weighed nearly fifteen ounces, and the patient lived five years. Sir A. Cooper extracted one entire, weighing sixteen ounces, but the patient died. Dr. Mott, of New York, in 1834 extracted one entire weighing seventeen ounces two drachms and thirty- six grains, from a young man aged twenty-one, who survived five days.* The operation was the bilateral. Treatment.—The indications are:—1, to get rid of the diseased state of the urine ; 2, to allay pain and irritation ; 3, to remove the stone. The first and second are to be accomplished by measures which have been already spoken of when treating of gravel and of chronic inflam- mation of the bladder. The third may be executed in three ways, viz,, 1, solution ; 2, lithotrity; and 3, lithotomy—each of which requires to be treated of in a distinct section. SECTION XII.—LITHOLYSIS, OR SOLUTION OF STONE. Sir B. Brodie long since showed that phosphatic calculi may some- times be dissolved altogether, and sometimes be so disintegrated or reduced in size that they may escape through the urethra by means of the injections of very dilute niti-ic acid directed for chronic cystitis. The Vichy water, a solution of bicarbonate of soda saturated with carbonic acid, has considerable effect not only on lithic calculi, which it dissolves by virtue of its alkali, but on the phosphatic, which it affects through its carbonic acid, and by disintegrating the animal matter which cements them together, f Experiments have been made on various alkaline and saline solutions and solutions of lead, aided by the force of galvanism, by Dr. Elliott Hoskins, of Guernsey, Dr. Bence Jones, Dr. G. Robinson, of Newcastle, and others; but they have not been yet brought to any practical result. SECTION XIII.—LITHOTRITY. Definition.—An operation for grinding or crushing stone in the bladder into fragments of so small a size that they may be readily ex- pelled through the urethra. History.—So desirable is this object, that it has been treated of, or attempted, by surgeons in every epoch of civilization ; by Hippocrates amongst the Greeks ; by Albucasis of the Arabian school; by Franco, * The writer must thank Wm, Darling, Esq., M.A., M.D., &c., formerly of New York, for this fact; Dr. Darling was present at the operation, and weighed the stone. f See Dr. Willis's work on Stone; Elliott Hoskins, Lond, Journ. of Med., Oct. 1851; Ranking, vol. xiv. and xvii., quoted from Phil. Trans,, 1852. Dr. G, Robinson's pamphlet on Electro-Lithoiricy. Lond., 1855.