259 PAKTICULAR FRACTURES. the fragments in their places ; but this appears to be unnecessary, and is very irritating. A plug of lint, may, however, be requisite to check profuse hgemorrhage. If the fracture is compound, any loose splinters should be carefully removed. The great swelling, ecchymosis, bleed- ing from the nose, and headache, with which this injury is followed, will require to be combated by bleeding or leeches, purgatives and cold lotions, and spoon diet; and if collections of matter form, they should be opened without delay. If there are symptoms of pressure on the brain, and the vomer seems depressed, it should be carefully drawn forwards, if possible. 11. Fracture of the Lower Jaw may be caused by violent blows. Its most usual situation, says Mr. Vincent, is close to one of the eye-teeth. Sometimes in children (though rarely) it occurs at the symphysis, and still more rarely at the angle, or in the ascending ramus. Oy the bone may be fractured in two places, one on each side of the symphysis. Symptoms.—It is known by pain, swelling, and inability to move the jaw, and irregularity of tha teeth, because the anterior fragment is generally drawn downwards'; by the muscles arising from the hyoid bone, whilst the posterior fragment is fixed by the temporal. On moving the chin, whilst the hand is placed on the posterior fragment, crepitus will be felt; and the gums are lacerated and bleeding, and the teeth at the point of fracture loosened. The diagnosis of fracture of the ascending ramus will often be obscured by the great swelling. Great pain and difficulty of motion and obscure crepitus, usually felt and heard best by the patient himself on account of its contiguity to the internal ear through the temporo-maxillary articulation, are the chief signs. Treatment.— A piece of pasteboard, or gutta percha, cut to the shape here given (a), softened in boiling water, should be accurately fitted to the jaw, and then a four-tailed bandage should be applied. This is made by taking a yard and a half of wide roller, and tear- ing each end longitudinally, so as to leave about eight inches in the middle, which should have a short slit in it. The chin is to be put into this slit, and then two of the tails are to be tied over the crown of the head, so as to fix the lower jaw against the upper, and the other two are to be fastened behind the head.* It is useful to place a thin wedge- shaped piece of cork or gutta percha between the molar teeth on each aide, especially if any of the teeth at the fractured part are deficient, in order to insure more perfect adaptation, and to keep the incisor teeth a little apart. Sometimes a tooth falls down between the broken * Woodcut b shows the pasteboard splint as applied; the longer piece applied to the rami, the shorter one doubled back under the chin, and its ends brought up on either side.