SPASMODIC STRICTURE. 607 catheter that has been kept for some time on a wire, so that it keeps its curve when the wire is drawn out. Instead of oiliag the catheter, Mr. H. Thompson carefully fills the urethra with pure olive oil by means of a glass syringe, forcing it down to and through the stricture, and retaining it by the finger and thumb at the orifice till the catheter is introduced. Mr. Thompson says that the instrument passes with less pain by this means.* Whenever spasmodic stricture occurs frequently or periodically, the surgeon should examine most carefully into those conditions of the health generally, and of the urine particularly, which give rise to it; and should resort to the catheter as sparingly as possible, unless there is some organic stricture requiring it. When there is great depression or debility, tonics; when periodicity of attack, quina; when an over- loaded state of the bowels, aperients; and, when the urine is irritating, the measures detailed in the eighth section of this chapter should be resorted to. Puncture of the bladder.—If none of these means succeed, and the bladder has become exceedingly distended, an operation will be neces- sary to relieve it, and save the patient's life. Althougli, we must observe, that this is never necessaiy from mere spasm, unless there is also extensive and old-standing disease of the urethra or prostate. The time at which it must be done must be decided by the surgeon's judg- ment ; sometimes, as Sir B. Brodie obsei'ves, it is necessary within thirty-six hours, sometimes not for three or four days. The operations may be— 1. Forcing a passage; that is to say, pushing the catheter onwards through the obstruction into the bladder, as nearly as possible in the course of the natural passage. This is not applicable to stricture ; but to cases in which the obstruction is in the prostate, and should only be attempted by one who is an expert manipulator, and thoroughly ac- quainted with anatomy. 2. Incision of the urethra in the perinceum, with or without division of the stricture. This, with the cases to which it is applicable, is de- scribed in the next section. 3. Functure of the bladder by the rectum is performed by placing the patient on his hands and knees, or placing him on his back with his knees drawn up, and bringing him close to the edge of the bed, intro- ducing the right forefinger into the anus, and a long curved trocar and canula by its side, then feeling for, and making sure of, the distended bladder just behind the prostate, and exactly in the middle line, and plunging the trocar into it—leaving the canula for four-and-twenty hours. The rectum should be first of all cleared by enema. The point of the trocar should be withdrawn slightly within the canula as it is being introduced into the anus, so that it may do no mischief. This operation has been strongly recommended by Mr. Cock,t who has had great experience of its utility. * On Stricture, p. 179, 2nd edit. f Cock, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv.