CATARACT. 422 which also moves upwards when the candle is moved upwards; and 3rdly. A very small inverted image, that is reflected from the pos- terior surface of the crystalline lens, and that moves downwards when the candle is raised upwards. To render this most distinct, the pupil should be dilated, and the examination be made in a dark room. Now, in lenticular cataract, this inverted image is from the first rendered iu- distinct, and soon abolished; and the deep erect one is soon afterwards abolished also. In capsular cataract, from the first, only the front erect image, that, namely, produced by reflection from the cornea, is visible. But the disease must be advanced, and the observer experienced, if this test is to avail ; and the ophthalmoscope gives the earliest means of detecting opacity of the posterior part of the lens. Diagnosis will be spoken of under Amaurosis and Glaucoma. Causes.—Cataract, especially capsular, is sometimes attributable to inflammation, and may be caused in a short space of time by wounds or other injuries of the lens and capsule, or of the eye in general. But the ordinary cataract of old age seems to be a mere effect of impaired nutrition. 1. Hard Cataract,—This form is met with in elderly people only. It is caused, according to Mr. Walton, by graynessor opacity appearing in an already discoloured lens ; and the greater the coloration of the lens, the less will be the amount of grayness required to obstruct vision. After thirty, the lens naturally acquires a yellow colour, and the hue becomes deeper, till it is like a piece of amber. The amber colour, therefore, the characteristic hue of cataract in aged persons, is not the effect of disease. Sometimes the colour is as deep as that of dark ma- hogany : and Mr. Walton has brought before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society the particulars of a case in which the cataract was so black that it could not be detected till the eye was examined with the ophthalmoscope, or the concentrated light of a powerful lens. According to Mr. R. Taylor * the change in such cataractous lenses is twofold. The nucleus becomes hard and dry, to a degree far exceed- ing what is ever seen in the healthy lens; while the superficial layers are softened, frequently to the state of a semi-fluid pulp. The nuclear lens-fibres are hard, atrophied, and brittle, and are rendered more or less opaque by fine molecular deposit, as well as by little cracks and fissures. Those of the superficies are softened, and more ov less disin- tegrated ; they, also, are dotted over with fine molecular matter, which is also found floating free in masses, and filling up, and rendering opaque, many of the superficial lens-cells. This molecular matter is probably the result of the coagulation of the albuminous blastema by which the whole of the lens textures are pervaded. The opacity generally commences in the superficial layers of the lens, for the most part in the form of streaks or radii, converging towaids the centre, or, more correctly speaking, following the course of the natural division of the lens. Less frequently it commences in the nucleus, in the form of a cloudy opacity. When the disease is of long * Pathological Transactions, vol. vii.