66 PYEMIA. may pass off by degrees, with no great or mischievous effusion; or, on the other hand, in a few hours the part so complained of may be found a bag of pus. Diffuse Inflammation of the Cellular Tissue.—This is an important member of the pyaemic group. It appears to be the cellulo-cutaiieous erysipelas, without the affection of the skin. A rapidly-increasing swelling appears on one of the limbs, or on some part of the trunk. Its surface is tense, shining, and usually pale. When pressed upon, it feels in some cases hard and resisting, but more frequently it yields that peculiar, semi-elastic sensation described by the term boggy, or quaggy. There is always most excruciating pain,—which in some cases is burning and throbbing, in others heavy and tensive. The disease is invariably attended with fever of an asthenic character. Tiie pulse is always frequent; it may be sharp and jerking, but is without strength and steadiness. The countenance is anxious and haggard; the mind irritable and desponding, and delirious at intervals ; respiration quick and laborious. In unfavourable cases, low muttering deliriuim, copious offensive perspiration, and jaundiced skin, usher in the fatal termination.* This form of inflammation is produced by dissection wounds, glanders, and snake-bites. Prognosis.—This disease is always serious; often fatal. The pa- tient's chances of recovery may be measured by strength of pulse, clearness of intellect, sleep, or tlie leveise. Repeated shiveriugs are of the worst omen. The disease may prove f ital rapidly; or the patient may linger, and .slowly sink from abscesses or visceral disease; or, he may recover, if the amount of local miscliief is not great, and if the excretory organs are enabled to get rid of the poisonous material before the patient is quite exhausted. The author has been repeatedly struck with the immense quantities of black bile and of lithate excreted by women recovering from slight attacks of puerperal fever. Causes.—1st. The predisposing causes ai'e those that produce a low state of constitution, and render the blood incapable of forming a firm clot; such as profuse loss of blood; deprivation of food; anxiety of mind; organic disease ; impure states of the atmosphere; residence in the contaminated air of an hospital. The fact so well brought out by Mr. Charles Hawkins, that single women are ten times more prone to puerperal fever than married ones, shows the effect of misery and starvation in rendering them prone to pytemia. 2ndly. Disturbance of the coagulum in a wounded vein ; as by exei'cise of an arm after venesection, or imprudent movements soon after parturition; local circumstances interfering with the closure of veins, such as the patulous condition of the veins of bone, of the liver, and of the sinuses in the * See two papers in tlie Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for 1825, vol. XXV.; Copland's Diet. Art. Cellular Tissue; James on Inflammation; Travers on Constitutional Irritation ; and Butler on Irritative Fever, Devon- port, 1825, which gives an account of an extraordinary visitation of this disease in Plymouth Dockyard in 1824.