311 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. space. If one side only is dislocated, the chin will be turned towards the opposite. Treatment.—The surgeon should first fix the head carefully against a wall, or high chair; next, wrap a napkin round his thumbs, and place them at the roots of the coronoid process behind the molar teeth ; then he should press them downwards and backwards, elevating the chin at the same time with his lingers. Or he may place the handle of a fork on the last molar teeth, and depress them with it, using the upper teeth as a fulcrum. Or a piece of cork may be put between the molar teeth in order to act as a fulcrum, whilst the chin is elevated. After reduction, the chin must be confined for a week or two by a. four-tailed bandage. II. Dislocations of the Clavicle.—The sternal extremity of this bone may be dislocated forwards by blows on the shoulder. It can l eadily be felt on the anterior surface of the sternum. It may also be displaced upwards upon the end of the sternum. The treatment is in all respects the same as for fractured clavicle, with the addition of pres- sure by the thumb on the displaced end of the bone. Dislocation of this end of the bone backwards has been caused by curvature of the spine. In one case it produced so much pressure on the oesophagus as to threaten starvation, and was in consequence extirpated by Mr. Davie of Bungay. There are also a few cases on record of dislocation of this end of the clavicle backwards by violence. Pain and difiiculty of breathing are the consequences; the reduc- tion and subsequent treat- ment the same as for the dislocation forwards.* The outer extreirdty of the clavicle may be dislo- cated upwards on the acro- mion. The shoulder is sunken and flattened, and on tracing the spine of the scapula, tlie end of the cla- vicle can be felt upon the acromion. The outer ex- tremity of the clavicle has also been known to be dis- located under the acromion by a kick from a horse on the shoulder, f The treat- ment is the same as for frac- ^ ture of the clavicle or aero- "^,^,0^ mion, (See p. 262.) * Vide a case by M. Pellieux in the Revue Medicale, Aug. 1834, p. 151, and another by Mr. Brown, of Callington, Med. Gaz., Aug. 1, 1845. t Forbes's Rev., vol. vi. X Dislocation of the shoulder downwards.