PAROTID TUMOURS. 525 cysts are liable to form in other parts of the neck, not connected with the thyroid gland. Their treatment is the same.* This gland may further be affected with acute and chronic inflam- mation, and " tubercular " deposit; either of which may lead to abscess. Their treatment must be conducted on general principles. It has also been affected with cancer, although rarely. Some cases of it are recorded in the Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii., by Mr. Csesar Hawkins, and by Mr. Brown, of Bath. The patients presented solid tumours in the situation of the gland, not having the characters of ordinary bronchocele ; and one distinctive feature was the fixity of the parts. III. Hernia Bronchalis {Bronchocele vera. Goitre aerien) is a very rare tumour, formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane through the cartilages of the larynx or the rings of the trachea, and caused by violent exertions of the voice. Larrey met with sundrv instances of it in French officers, and in the muezzin or priests that call the people to prayer from the minarets in Mohammedan countries. The tumour is soft and elastic, can often be made to disappear by pressure, and is increased by any exertion. The only available treat- ment is moderate support.f IV. Parotid Tumours.—This name may be assigned to those tumours which occur in front of the ear, over the parotid gland. Cysts of various sorts, filled with glairy matter, or with blood; enchondromatous tumours, pure, or mixed with newly-developed gland tissue, and enlarged lymphatic glands, are the commonest; cancer may also be met with. Such tumours may of course invoh^e the facial nerve; the facial artery, or the external carotid; or may extend in- wards to the pterygoid and styloid processes. "If thei'e be reason to suspect," says Mr. Listen, " that the disease is of a malignant nature, and not thoroughly limited by a cellular cyst, no interference is ad- missible. If, on the contrary, it be at all moveable, has advanced slowly, possesses a smooth surface, and is firm (neither of stony hard- ness, nor pulpy), then an operation may be contemplated." If slowness of growth and capability of being moved freely concur, the surgeon should remove such tumours; keeping his knife i^lose to the tumour, especially at its deep part, so that he may not divide the nerve or artery, if possible. Sometimes, howev^er, they may be so involved, that their division is unavoidable. The patient should always, therefore, be warned of the possibility of facial paralysis after removal of one of these tumours. V. Tumours in the side op the Neck.—Every variety of tumour may be found in this locality; enlarged lymphatic glands ; cysts serous and sanguinolent; tumours composed of gland structure, like that of the thyroid gland ; fibroplastic tumours, and cancer; the * Vide a paper by Mr. B. Phillips in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxv., on Tumours in the Neck not involving the Thyroid Gland; Paget, Lectures, vol. ii.; Fer- gusson, Pract. Surg., 3rd edit., p. 655. t Larrey, Clinique Chirurgicale, torn, ii., p. 81. Paris, 1829.