SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. 299 cartilage is entirely destroyed ; the bone can be heard to grate on the least motion; suppuration occurs into the joint, and numerous tortuous abscesses form around it; the surrounding soft parts are disorganized ; the ligaments are destroyed, so that the flexor muscles, which have long kept the joint immoveably bent, at last dislocate it: if the knee is affected, for instance, the head of the tibia is drawn backwards into the ham, as in the foregoing sketch; and at last the patient, unless relieved, dies exhausted. 11. In Children, and in some adults, the disease may begin very insidiously ; with slight lameness or weakness, as it is called, of the limb, and wasting of the muscles, and very little pain except after exercise. Then succeeds a swelling of the joint, and of all the textures round it; with increased wasting of the limb, and flexion and distortion of the joint. This may be followed by abscess. Pathology.—The most essential circumstance to be regai'ded in this disease is the constitution. Whether in adults or in children, this is sure to be of a debilitated scrofulous sort. Regarding the local changes, they may commence in the synovial membrane; 2, in the cartilage; 3, in the bone; 4, in the parts around. 1. Acute or chronic synovitis, especially if the result of injury, in a person of bad constitution, will very frequently cause destruction of the cartilage, and caries of the bone, suppuration in the joint, and the other train of symptoms just described. This case will be known by the swelling from effusion into the joint in the early stage. 2. Whether ulceration of the cartilage alone, without morbid change in the bone or synovial membrane, is capable of giving rise, as is com- monly supposed, to the disease just described above, must, after Dr. Redfern's researches, be considered doubtful, it is more than probable that some morbid state of the bone, or of the synovial membrane, or of both, accompanies it from the first. 3. In the case of scrofulous children, it seems pretty certain that the disease commences with ca- ries of the cancellous texture of the articular extremity of the bone. The affected bone is found to be soft, red, and easily crushed; its cancelli are filled with a red- dish granulation, sometimes with inspissated pus, or " tu- bercle." Owing to the soft- ened state of the bone, the cartilage peels off from it readily. When peeled off, its under surface is probably * This cut exhibits caries of the astragalus, with incipient separation of the cartilage. From the King's College Museum. The next shows a state ap- proaching to spina ventosa.