ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 37 present century, Wilson Philip and Hastings, saw in the dilated and gorged vessels nothing but relaxation, debility, and want of action. VVliilst the doctrine of action of blood-vessels was prevalent, Gendrin, Mayo, and others showed elaborately how the successive stages of inflammation were so many mechanical consequences of different degrees of obstruction or relaxation of blood-vessels. The school of Liebig saw in it increased oxydation. The explorer of the blood sees in it the results of hyperinosis, or other changes in that liquid. The modern microscopic physiologist sees abnormal conditions of nutrition and of attraction between the blood and tissues; the believer in cells, as the agents in health and disease, sees in inflammation a perverted growth and proliferation of cells. The most advanced physiologist^of the day, who has discarded a mere doctrine of cells, and sees in the living body the work of germinal material, refers the phenomena of inflammation to exaggerated growth of tliat material. Then it must be noticed, that the search for a theory has been like the search for the philosopher's stone, or for the Grand Arcanum ; when found it was to be a key to all difficulties, and to show, apriori, the right plan of treatment. He who believed increased vital action to be the essence of inflammation, of course drained the blood-vessels, starved the stomach, and used every poison capable of " lowering the heart's action." He who saw debility in the distended vessels proposed stimulants. He who sees oxygenation of the blood, proposes remedies calculated to diminish oxydation. One theoi ist proposes remedies that shall hold fibrine in solution; another those which shall check the growth of germinal material, and so on. But each of these suppositions may be true to a certain extent: there may be increased action of the arteries, debility of the capillaries, in- creased oxygenation of the blood, and perversion of nutrition ; but yet these are but accidents and accompaniments of a process whereof we are not able to grasp the essence. He only who knows and sees all tilings can frame a perfect theory. SECTION VIII.—ACUTE INFLAMMATION. Definition.—Acute inflammation is that which is sudden in its origin, violent in its action, and rapid in producing some one of the so-called effects of inflammation; and it is attended with fever. The surgeon should always estimate the natural tendencies of the particular kind of inflammation, the cause that it depends on, and the organ which it affects. Because there are many inflammations which run a certain course, and then get well of themselves ; others in which every effort must be made to relieve an organ whose integrity may be essential to life. Treatment.—Generally speaking we should say that the indi- cations are, 1. To remove the cause. 2. To purify the blood. 3. To soothe the disturbance of vitality and sensibility in the injured part.