DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 396 the eyelids, disease of the hair follicles, and loss of the lashes; some- times to thickening and subsequent inversion of the edge of the lids. Treatment.—In the first place, the health, which is always out of order, must be remedied by aperients, alteratives, tonics, change of ail', bathing, and whatever other measures may be suitable for each particular case. Whilst there are much heat and swelling, the eyes should be bathed with an anodyne collyrium, F. 142, and the edges of the lids be smeared with lai'd at bedtime to prevent them from stick- ing together. But so soon as the bowels have been well cleared, an astringent collyrium, F. 140, may be used during the day, and the diluted ungueutum hydrargyri nitratis be applied in very small quantity, with a small camel's-hair brush, to the edges of the lids at bedtime, F. 1G8. The lashes should be plucked out if there is any ulceration about their roots. Mr. Walton generally cuts them off even in the early stage of the affection, as this facilitates cure by enabling the applications to be move effectually made. III, Syphilitic Ulcers of the eyelids, if primary, will be known by their sudden appearance in a patient otherwise healthy, and by their not having been preceded by a wart or tubercle, like cancerous or epithelial ulcers, and by the results of inoculation. Secondary ulcers will be known by their coppery colour, and the general ca- chectic look of the patient, and presence of secondary symptoms in other parts. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilis generally. IV. Trichiasis signifies a growing inwards of the eyelashes. Sometimes the lashes which turn in, seem to constitute a second or distinct row, and the term distichiasis has been applied to this state. Mr. H. Walton has shown, however, that the appearance of this sup- posed independent row is a deception, and depends on the isolated position of the innermost lashes when inverted. Causes.—It seems to depend on some changes in the fibro-cellular tissue in which the cilia follicles lie, produced by irritation. The disease is exceedingly common amongst the lower orders, especially the Irish. Treatment.—If pluck- ing the lashes proves ineffectual, an operation must be resorted to; and three ai-e enumerated by Mr. Walton. One consists in the excision of a portion of skin from the lid, so as to give a sufficient outward tendency to the whole lid, to keep the inverted lashes away from the globe. An incision is made through the skin of the lid close and parallel to the lashes. A second incision is made to meet the extremities of the first, and to include an elliptical portion of skin between them, which is next dissected out, and the edges brought together by sutures. The other operation consists in the extirpation of the roots and bulbs of the offend- ing lashes. An incision is first made along the edge of the lid through the skin, corresponding to the lashes that are to be removed. Two other short cuts are then made at each end at right angles, so as to form a small flap, which is to be lifted, and the bulbs of the hairs most carefully dissected off the cartilage. The skin is then to be laid down, and retained by a stitch. The third is a last resource, and must be