LITHOTRITY. 651 cruslied and expelled. In favourable cases thei-e is some degree of scalding and pain, which soon pass off, and allow the operation to be repeated in three or four days. In less favourable cases, there may be severe pain and spasm of the bladder, requiring an interval of six or eight days. When the stone has been broken into fragments, these may be pul- verized with the lighter instrument. Mr. Thompson's opinion is, that it is best to pulverize a stone thoroughly. The powder comes away without effort. As for fragments of medium size, he thinks they are better left to take their chance. Mr. Fergusson, on the contrary, employs scoops to bring them through the urethra. After each operation, and especially after the first, the patient should not attempt to make water for some hours; and should remain quietly on his back for two or three days. Probably he will not be able to make water, fi'om the injury which the neck of the bladder has received, and will require the catheter. It may be expedient to make him pass water on his knees, especially if the prostate is enlarged. If a fragment become impacted in the urethra and cause retention, it must either be gently pushed back into the bladder; or extracted by the urethra forceps, or by probe or hook ; or crushed in the urethra ; or lastly, be cut down upon from the perinseum. Contraindications.—The circumstances which render the operation of lithotrity difficult or dangerous, relate 1, to the urethra ; for if this be naturally small, as in children, or strictured by disease, and incapable of being dilated so as to admit the necessary instruments, lithotomy is to be preferred to lithotrity. In children under puberty, the advan- tages of lithotrity are few, unless the stone is very small, and can be disposed of at one or two sittings ; for the operation of lithotomy at this age gives most favourable results. 2. Unconquerable irritability and contractility of the bladder, especially if already thickened by disease. 3. Very great enlargement of the joros^a^e, and especially of the so-called third lobe, which hinders the manipulation of the instru- ment and the escape of detritus. 4. Great size of the stone, such as a larger diameter than two inches, especially if accompanied with much hardness, and if there are more stones in number than two. If these be the contraindications, it will be readily inferred that the Gases in which Lithotrity may he beneficially resorted to, are those in which 1, the patient is an adult, with a full-sized urethra ; 2, in which the prostate is not enlai-ged ; or at all events, in which, if the prostate be slightly enlarged, the stone is small and friable, the general health good, and the bladder not irritable ; 3, in which the bladder is free from thickening, extreme irritability, Sind purulent catarrh. Simple mucous catarrh is no contraindication; in fact, being caused by the presence of stone, it will be relieved by that which removes its cause. Lastly, cases in which the stone is single, or in which at least there are not more than two; not large ; nor very hai'd. The oxalic are the hardest and most intractable of all.