78 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. cleanliness and ventilation. It frequently is a concomitant of dysentery or typhus, originating in the same sources. It may affect any kind of wound, or even a mere bruise. Symptoms.—According to Mr. Blackadder, it begins in the form of a livid vesicle at the edge of a wound or soi'e, accompanied with an occasional painful sensation like the sting of a gnat. Sometimes it first appears as a small livid spot on the sore, and near its circumference. In either case the disease soon spreads, and converts the whole surface of the ulcer into an ash-coloured or blackish slough. The discharge, if previously healthy, is at first diminished in quantity, and sanious 5 but soon becomes profuse, dirty yellowish, or brown, and ofiensive. Ac- cording to Mr. Blackadder, the hospital gangrene is at first a purely local affection, like the sloughing phagedgena; and he says that the constitutional symptoms do not make their appearance before the third or fourth, sometimes not till the twentieth day.* But the disease, as observed by Dr. Hennen, began with constitu- tional symptoms, lieadache, nausea, perhaps bilious vomiting, quick pulse, hot skin, and an inflamed, dry, glassy, and painful state of the wound ; to whicli succeedeil sloughing of the surface of the wound, great swelling of the edges, and the other local and constitutional symptoms of sloughing phageda'na.f It thus appeal's that tiie hospital gangrene may be either a local dis- ease, caused by the influence of poisonous matter on a wound, or that it may be constitutional from the first, and be caused by the absorption of a septic poison into the blood. Treatment.—The indications in the treatment of all the forms of sloughing phagedaena are, 1, to destroy the diseased surface and its ! secretions; and 2, to correct the disorder of the system. The first iuilication is to be carried into efliect by means of caustics. The concentratcfl niti ic acid may be used in the following mode, as directed by Mv. Welbank. In the first place the soie must be thoroughly cleansed, and all its moisture be absorbed by lint or tow. The surrounding parts must next be defended with a thick layer of ointment: then a thick pledget of lint, which may be conveniently fastened to the end of a stick, is to be imbued with the acid, and to be pressed steadily on every part of the diseased suiface till the latter is conveited into a dry, firm, and insensible mass. This application of course causes more or less pain for the moment; but, when that subsides, the patient expi-esses himself free from his previous severer sufferings. The part may then be covered with simple dressings and cloths wet with cold water. " It is always prudent, often necessary," says Mr. Welbank, "to remove the eschar at the end of sixteen or twenty hours, and then, if the patient be free from pain, and the ulcer healthy and florid, it is to be treated with common stimulating dressings, * Observations on Phagedasna Gangrenosa, by H. Home Blackadder, Edin- burgh, 1818; Guthrie, Commentaries on Military Surgery, 6th ed. t Principles of Military Surgery, by John Hennen, M.D., F.R.S.E., 3rd ed., London, 1829,pp. 217, .56(7. ,• Sir G. BallingaU's Military Surgery; Dr. Boggie on Hospital Gangrene, Edinburgh, 1848; Velpeau, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 172.