159 DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. near a joint, a fissure will often extend into the joint. In the case of a man who was shot accidentally in the streets of Balaklava, hy a soldier who was firing at a fierce bullock, the ball lodged in the upper part of the tibia. VVith some difficulty it was removed, but severe infiammation and suppuration of the joint followed, which terminated in the death of the patient. On the post-mortem examination it was found that a fissure extended into the joint. Occasionally bullets will pass through a joint, grooving, perhaps, the articular cartilage. Cases of this nature are most severe, and are more dangerous than those in which the joint has been more fully exposed, as in shell wounds. Secondary implications of joints.—Joints are very frequently impli- cated, secondarily, from the inflammatory action set up by wounds in the neighbourhood extending to them, and involving them in its destructive effects. Private Waldron, 2nd battalion Rifle Brigade, received a bullet-wound o^^er the left knee. The wound appeared superficial, and the joint not to be penetrated, but low chronic inflam- mation of it set in, and was follov.'ed by gelatinous degeneration. The limb was ultimately amputated, and the joint found quite disorganized. In cases of pyemia, secondary deposits of pus may take place in any of the joints. In such, free and early incisions seem to atiord the best clmnce to the patient. Treatment.—In injury of joints, especially of the large ones, and if the damage done be severe, the question of treatment becomes usually one of amputation or excision. The experience of the present American war, by the almost una- nimous testimony of their surgeons, is, that primary amputations in the thigh, and still more secondary, for gun-shot fractures have been very unsuccessful indeed, few escaping a fatal result; that resections of the comminuted bone or fractured joint have been a little less fatal: but that the most favourable results have ensued by treating the cases as ordinary compound fractures, after removing loose fragments, by suspending the limb in a Smith's or Hodgen's splint (see Frac- tures); by free incisions to let out matter; and by constant irriga- tion with cold water. Out of forty-six cases of wounded knee-joint, so treated in the Baltimore Hospital from June 1862 to October 1863, seven died, five remained under treatment, and sixteen transferred to other hospitals.* Dr. Moses, Medical Director of the army of Cumberland in the campaign of 1863,t says that no rules derived from the English army of the Crimea, where the men were starved, can be applicable to men well fed and cared for, as the American army; that he saved eight out of thirteen cases of gun-shot fracture of the femur; and five out of ten cases of gun-shot wound of the knee-joint. Absolute rest; extraction of the ball and of loose splinters; irrigation with cold water; and free incisions for discharge of matter were the means. * Peters, in American Medical Times, Oct. 3, 1S63. t Am. Jour. Med. Soc, April, 1864.