ERYSIPELAS. 63 treatment, to allay irritation—to arrest the extension of the disease — and to give free exit to sloughs and discharge. Emetics and Purgatives.—On the first occurrence of the symptonis an emetic should be given (F. 98), and be followed by five grains of calomel, and by purgative draughts, every six or eight hours, as long as they bring away hardened lumps, or dark offensive liquid motions. (F. 33, 34.) Antiphlogistic Measures.—Bleeding is said to be required if the patient is young and vigorous, the pulse full and strong, the face flushed, and delirium violent; and if the inflamed part is full, tense, and vividly red, and especially if seated on the head or throat; but in most cases, a small dose of mercury at night, F. 63 ; with very gentle aperients and carbonate or citi-ate of ammonia, K. 58, will suffice, after a good preliminary purging by calomel. The practice of bleeding in zymotic disease belongs to a past generation. Diet.—During the whole course of the disease, the patient should have a good quantity of nourishment; seldom low diet for more than one or two days; but beef-tea, soda-water and milk ; barley-water with lemon-juice, and, in the later stages, good claret or port, even brandy ad libitum, in proportion to the failure of pulse. Tonics.—Bark should be given in all cases as soon as the tongue becomes clean and the skin moist; but it should be resorted to without delay if the pulse is soft, tremulous, or very rapid, the heat modei'ate, and the delirium low and muttering, or if suppuration or sloughing have commenced, F. 1. Opium may be given in full doses at bed-time in the later stages, to allay restlessness, provided there is no cerebral congestion nor coma. If there is great irritation of the stomach, with sickness or diarrhoea, small repeated doses of hydr. c. creta et pulv. ipec. c. should be given with eftervescing draughts, F. 64, 58. Local Measures.—Leeches are useful when the pulse is good, and the redness vivid, and the part throbbing violently, and especially when the throat is inflamed. Minute punctures about one-fifth of an inch deep, made with the point of a lancet, often permit the discharge of considerable quantities of blood and serum; they are rather painful. Gold lotions may be used under similar circumstances. But warm or tepid poppy fomentations will genei'ally be found more soothing, and theoretically are safer than cold.—i^/owr, dusted on the inflamed part, or soft carded cotton wool, is often very soothing in simple eiysipelas. —Pressure by bandages is serviceable in the latter stages of most cases;—and from the very first, if the inflammation be atonic and oedematous.—Stimulants. Painting the surface with solution of nitrate of silver, or blisters, or lotion of chloride of iron, are of great use in creating a healthy exudation, and so putting a stop to tedious erratic cases of simple erysipelas. In similar cases, the extension of the disease may sometimes be arrested by applying the nitrate of silver so as completely to encircle the inflamed part. When there is a tendency to sinking, with diminution or disappearance of the external inflamma-