199 GONORRHCEA, OR CLAP. to the entire exclusion of fermented liquors, and the patient should drink soda water, barley water, linseed tea, gum water, and other mu- cilaginous fluids. The scalding will be relieved by combinations of alkalies and sedatives (F. 174), and by a hip-bath of the temperature of 80° ; but the bath should not be hot, nor even warm, otherwise it will excite the circuhition and bring on erections. Yet Mr. Milton recom- mends washing the penis with water liot enough to scald painfully. The bowels should be opened with castor-oil, and sleep be procured by conium, henbane, Dover's powder, and other anodynes ; or F. 30, 63, &c., every night whilst there is much pain and chordee. As soon as the patient is free from fever, he should take copaiba or cubebs. Young, irritable people, however, with light complexions, can seldom take these medicines without suflTering from sickness or diarrhoea, or sometimes even from fever and a rash ; and every combination of aromatic and opiate that can be devised will not enable the stomach to tolerate them. If the patient is very plethoric, and suffers greatly from pain and fever, and has a hard pulse and white tongue—and if thei e be great aching in the bladder or perinjeum, protracted agony after micturition, tendei ness in the abdomen, pain in the back, or other signs of irritation of the urinary organs—it may be right to apply leeches to the peri- naeum, and to administer opium fieely ; or a nightly dose of calomel and Dover's powder, or tartar emetic, F. 62 ;—but it is of no use to lov)er a patient who is not feverish. It is decidedly not safe to use injections with young, delicate, irritable subjects during the acute stage, and most especially whilst theie is any tenderness of the glands of the groin, or any acliing in the spermatic cord or testicles ; as they might easily produce swelled testicle, or gieat iri itation of the neck of the bladder. It is be.Nt to refrain from them till the inflammatory symptoms are removed. Treatment of Complications.—Painful erections and chordee may be relieved by a bag of cold water, and a combination of narcotics with antiphlogistics, F. 30, 31, 174, &c.; and if the chordee lasts long, a little mercurial ointment and extract of belbidonna should be smeared on the part at bed-time. H^moirhage may be checked by cold and pressure on the urethra. Inflammation of the mucous glands of the urethra is to be ti'eated by poultices. The swelling may be punctured if it ob- structs the flow of urine, but not otherwise. Swelling of the glands in the groin may generally be removed by rest, and, if necessai y, a few leeches. Of tlie third stage.—As soon as the acute stage has subsided, the patient should use the injections of nitrate of silver, followed by zinc, in the same manner as was recommended for the first stage. If the discharge does not cease entirely, or if it comes back a^ain, other in- jections, F. 135—139, may be tried; adapting their strength to the irritability of the part, and not permitting them to cause severe pain. But a gleet is often a very tedious complaint, and requires a judicious and long-continued course of remedies that act on the uri-