TUMOUKS OF THE LOWER JAW. 488 cautiously divided ; namely, the digastric, mylo-hyoid, genio-hyoid, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. When the attachments of these muscles are divided, care must be taken not to let the tongue retract into the throat, which might push back the epiglottis and cause suffocation. To prevent this, a ligature may be passed through the tip of the tongue, by which it may be held forwards during the operation, and which may be fastened to the twisted suture by which the wound is after- wards to be closed. If, however, the disease is not so very extensive, it may not he necessary to sacrifice the whole thickness of the bone, but a horizontal portion of the base of the bone may be saved, which will prevent the chin from falling in after the operation. In order to effect this, the bone may be sawn downwards for half its depth on each side of the tumour, and a horizontal cut be made below it; and then the diseased portion be separated completely with the cutting pliers. If a lateral portion is to be removed, an incision should be made along the basis of the bone, to its posterior angle, and up behind the ascending ramus. Thus a flap is formed, which may be turned up so as to furnish a good view of the tumour, and then the bone is to be divided as before described. If the extent of the disease renders it necessary to remove the entire side of the bone, and to separate it from its articulation with the temporal, the operator must begin by making a curved incision from beneath the ear, along the basis of the jaw to the chin. The flap so formed is to be dissected up, and the masseter with it; an incisor tooth is to be removed, and the bone to be sawn vertically through; the end is next seized and depressed, and the tempoial muscle dis- sected from the coi onoid process; the pterygoid muscles and other internal attachments are then to be divided, and finally the ligaments of the joint. Whilst effecting the disarticulation of the condyle, the point of the knife should be kept close to the bone, so as to avoid all risk of wounding the external carotid artery. After bleeding has been restrained, the wound is to be closed by sutures, excepting at the middle, where an aperture should be left for the ligatures, and to per- mit the escape of discharge. The salivary ducts and facial nerves divided in these operations may be left to themselves; the muscular power of the face is usually recovered, and the saliva finds a channel into the mouth.* VI. Necrosis of portions of the jaws is occasionally the result of mechanical violence, carious teeth, or violent salivation ; but of late years a new source of this disease has been detected in phosphorus. This when imbibed by persons employed in lucifer match manufacto- * See Listen's Elements of Surgery, and Practical Surgery, 2nd edition; Guthrie, in Med. Gaz., vol. xvii.; Brodie, ibid., vol. xv.; Listen on Tumours of the Face in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx. ; Bell on the Teeth; Johson en the Teeth; and Fergussen's Practical Surgery. Diseases of the lower jaw requiring amputation have been caused by a projection anteriorly ef the coronoid process, which hindered the evolution of the wisdom tooth.—Ferbes's Rev., vol. viii.