640 GRAVEL. octaliedral crystals, invisible except by the microscope. The dumb-bell form is rare, and probably another form of oxalate. ( Dr. Beale.) III. Phosphatic Deposits may arise in two ways. First, from excessive secretion of the mucus of the bladder. If the bladder be irritated from any cause so as to create this condition, the urine may be rendered alkaline by decomposition of its urea into carbonate of am- monia. But this is tar from being any evidence of a phosphatic dia- thesis. For example, the writer has often found crystals of lithic acid, in highly-ammoniacal urine—which has doubtless been secreted acid—in gouty cystitis. Thus, an irritating—possibly over-acid—state of the urine may be the cause of ultimate alkalinity. Secondly, they may arise from a primarily alkaline, or insufficiently- acid state of the urine, through which the phosphates of lime and of magnesia are precipitated: but they do not prove that phosphoric acid is in excess in the urine. The most common cause of alkalescence, or of deficient acidity in the urine, is surmised by Bence Jones to be ex- cessive acidity of the stomach. Thus, as the writer of this work stated in the edition of 1841, the urine is often loaded withf triple phosphate when the stomach is full of acid. In such a case the urine if alkaline is said to be so from preponderance of potass or soda. The ammoniacal urine which is commonly found in chronic cystitis, in disease or injury of the spinal cord, in the latter stages of prostatic disease, and under any circumstances which cause habitual retention of urine, is the result of putrefaction. When ui-ine is alkaline from ammonia, reddened lit- mus-paper steeped in it, and afterwai'ds heated, recovers its red colour, which is not the case when alkalescence arises from the presence of fixed alkali. The varieties of phosphatic deposit are—1, the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, which appears in sparkling prismatic crys- tals on the surface of the urine (fig. 5, p. 633); 2nd, basic triple phos- phate, formed by the addition of ammonia either in the bladder or out of it (fig. 3, p. 639); and 3rd, the phosphate of lime, a white amor- phous powder, generally associated with mucus. Pathological Relations.—The lithic sediments, crystalline or amor- phous, often accompany gout, and may exist in conjunction with a highly sthenic plethoric condition ; not that this is always the case, for they may indicate debility, mal-assimilation, or excessive fatigue. The * 1. Oxalate of lime crystals. 2. Oxalate of lime in pellucid spherules; single, double (or dumb-bells), and quadruple. From the urine of a woman whose only symptom was extremely distressing palpitation. 3. Cystine.