SQUINTING. 447 SECTION XVIII.—SQUINTING, Squinting, or Strabismus, may be defined to be a want of paral- lelism in the position and motion of the eyeballs. The essential cause of the affection is very obscure. Probably our knowledge is best expressed by the statement that for the most part there is some weakness of sight, or some want of adjustment in the visual axis of one eye, in consequence of which it is involuntarily turned aside in order to avoid the double or distorted vision that would result from looking at objects with two eyes of different powers. The ordinary form of squint in young persons is the convergent, or that in which the eye is turned inwards; the divergent, or that in which the eye is turned outwards, is more rare, and is chiefly met with in elderly persons, for the most part from paitial paralysis of the in- ternal rectus. It occasionally happens that both eyes squint: but it must be remarked that the appearance of this is more frequent than the reality. A squinting patient may change eyes as it were: that is to sav, he habitually uses one eye only; and although he habitually uses the stronger eye, and squints with the weaker, yet, at times, and especially if excited, he will look straight with the squinting eye, and squint with the sound one. Hence, there is often some difficulty in deciding at first which eye is the really squinting one; a point that must be determined by quietly watching the patient, and finding out which eye squints habitually when at rest. Occasionally, it is true, however, both eyes converge at the same time. When one eye is dis- torted and fixed, the affection is called luscitas. Causes.—1. Squinting may be congenital. 2. It may be induced by bad habits; such as the imitation of parents, nurses, or school- fellows, if they happen to squint; or by constantly looking at spots and pimples on the nose; or it may follow affections (such as horde- olum) which render motion of the eye painful, and during which the patient turns the eye inwards and keeps it motionless. 3. It may be caused by using one eye constantly to the neglect of the other. It has been known to occur after one eye has been for a long time shaded, in consequence of an inflammatory attack; which shows the expediency of always covering both eyes when a shade is necessary. 4. If there happens to be an opacity on the cornea of one eye, and that eye is the better one, the patient will sometimes continue to use it for ordinary vision, but for that purpose is obliged to distort it so as to remove the corneal opacity from the visual axis. 5. Squinting, like almost every other conceivable consequence of defect of nervous influence, is some- times a relique of fevers and the exanthemata. 6. It may be induced by irritation or disorder of the stomach and bowels, teething, worms, constipation, and so forth; it may, moreover, be caused by fright or violent fits of passion; and in some children it aways appeal's when the health is out of order, and disappears when it is restored. Lastly, it may be caused by some disoi'der of the circulation in the brain.