LITHOTOMY, 652 This operation may be followed by rigors, and great constitutional disturbance and debility: or by inflammation and abscess in the pelvic areolar tissue, which may prove fatal; but Sir B, Brodie gave it as his opinion, that if prudently and carefully performed, with a due at- tention to minute circumstances, it is liable to smaller objections than almost any other of the capital operations in surgery; and subsequent experience confirms this opinion fully. It must he observed, in conclusion, that the benefits of lithotrity are most fully evinced when patients apply for relief at the earliest .possible period after the descent of the stone into the bladder. SECTION XIV.—LITHOTOMY. Definition.—The best definition is the homely P]nglish phrase, cutting for the stone. The Indication for this operation may be defined to be, the presence of a stone in the bladder, which it is not judged expedient to remove by lithotrity. The only Contraindication is the presence of such serious organic disease, and especially of the kidneys or lungs, as would render the patient likely to sink from the immediate effects of the operation. But the surgeon is not justified in withholding a means of relief, if the only one, and if the patient desires it, ntiei ely out of I'egard to his own repu- tation for success in operations.* There are several methods in which lithotomy may be performed, and these may be classified, says Mr. H. Thompson,! under two heads, and seem to have originated in two different sets of ideas. The first [sihelateral operation, which provides an exit for the stone where there is most space for it, that is, downwards between the coccvx and sacrosciatic ligament. It no doubt comes in the way of important blood- vessels, and it involves free division of the prostate gland.f Hence another class of operations has been devised on anatomical, or a priori grounds. They are styled by Mr. Thompson central operations, inasmuch as the incisions " are limited to the central pai t of the perinseum, and are made in the line of the raphe itself or transverse to it, and lie mainly between the anus and the symphysis pubis. They do not ap- proach the rami or the great vessels, nor do they run transversely near to the origin of the branches from the pudic artery. In no case do the incisions reach the external limits of the prostate gland." I. The Lateral Operation is doubtless the safest if one opera- * The mortality from this operation increases as the age does. Out of one hundred and eighty-six cases, collected by Mr. Hutchinson, one hundred and thirty-seven were under the age of twenty, and of these one hundred and twenty-three recovered; forty-nine were over twenty years, and of these no fewer than twenty-six died, or more than half. See Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 8th, J 859. t Practical Lithotomy and Lithotrity, or an Inquiry into the best modes of removing Stone from the Bladder, by Henry Thompson, F.R.G.S., Lond., 1863. A book which is really a model for style, method, and practical insight.