762 OPERATIONS FOR TYIlsG ARTERIES. To tie the Femoral Artery in its upper division.—The course of the issel having been ascertained by its pulsation, an incision three or four inches in length should be made over it, about two or three inches below Poupart's ligament. The fat and superficial fascia must next be divided to the same extent. Some lymphatic glands will be met with here, and the saphena vein may be seen, but it generally lies much to the inner side of the in- cision. The fascia lata may now be divided to the same extent as the skin; the sartorius should be gently drawn outward (the sheath of this muscle should not be opened, as it would complicate the operation), and the pulsation of the artei-y felt for—its sheath should be opened at the lowest part of the wound suf- ficiently to admit the aneuiysm- needle. There is always a risk of transfixing the vein and passing the ligature through it—an accident liable to be followed by fatal pyae- mia. The best way of avoiding this accident, is to use a blunt aneurysm-needle, stiff enough not to bend; to pass it from the inner side, and to hold the inner cut edge of the sheath with forceps, and make it tense. Greater care will, of course, be necessary, if there has been an extension of inflammatory action to the sheath, with infil- tration or thickening.* To tie the Femoral Artery in the lower part of its course.—Turn the limb a little outwards, bend the knee, and raise the leg on a pillow. Make an incision three inches long, half in the middle third of the thigh, half in the lower, and in a direction midway between the front and back surfaces, through the skin and superficial fascia, taking all care to avoid the saphena vein. Divide the deep ffiscia on a director to the same extent. Now will be exposed the tendinous interweaving of the adductor muscles and vastus internus, that forms the tendinous sheath for the artery ; which is covered with more or less areolar * It tray be mentioned as a fact, that in two patients, in wLom Mr. Haynes Walton tied the femoral artery for popliteal aneurysm, after it had been sub- jected to pressure unsuccessfully,—in one instance for more than six weeks,— there were no structural changes in the parts that had been compressed.