DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 321 surgeon then grasping the ankle with one hand, and the knee with the other, causes the thigh to perform a circular movement of abduction, finishing with a slight rotatory movement, when the bone will pi-o- bably be replaced. Chloroform should be used, if there is any diffi- culty. See the diagram, p. 319.* When the patient is old and of relaxed fibre, or of tender years, dis- locations of the hip may be reduced by a method analogous to the heel in the axilla. The surgeon sits and presses one foot against the perinasum, whilst extension and rotation are effected by his assistants. But if main force must be resorted to, the patient must be thoroughly chloroformed, and placed on his back on a table ; a leathern girth or strong towel should be passed I'ound the upper part of the thio-h, so as to bear firmly against the perinjeum and crista ilii, as represented in the foregoing cut, which was sketched from nature by Mr. W. Bagg; and this should be attached to a ring or hook securely fastened into the wall or floor. A linen roller should next be applied to the lower part of the thigh,and over it I the strap belonging to the pulleys; which last are to be fixed to the wall or some other firm object. Then extension is to be made in such a direction as to draw the thigh across the oppo- site, a little above the knee. After a little time, the surgeon should gently rotate the limb, or lift the upper part of it, and the head of the bone will probably re- turn to the acetabulum. The patient should then be carefully moved to bed, with his thighs tied together. Mr. Skey ad- vises extension to be made from the ankle, so as not to drag on the pelvis by the hamstring muscles. Another way is to lay the patient on the sound side and to The foregoing diagram may explain the mechanism of reduction. The pro- cess IS well summed up by a writer in Medical Times, 30th June, 1855 •—" Lifl up, bend out, roll in,"—See case by Mr. Cock, ibid, t Dislocation downwards. From Sir A. Cooper.