699 CONTEACTION OF THE FINGERS. band buckled over it, and wide enough to embrace both the head of the tibia and condyles of the femur.* V. Contraction of the Toes.—It often happens that one of the toes is permanently elevated, and rides over its neighbours, from the habitual use of narrow boots ; and the upper surface of this toe, being peculiarly exposed to friction, is generally covered with corns so painful, that many persons have been compelled to have the part am- putated. Or the toe may be bent into the position of the so-called hammer-toe. Division of the extensor tendon (or of the flexor, in the hammer-toe variety,) may, however, enable the toe to be brought down into its place, and prevent the necessity of amputation. VI. Bunion—a swelling over the metatarsal joint of the great toe —is a disorder which is much more talked of than understood, but which the writer has taken pains to study the varieties of, which are these: 1. A recent bursal tumour, or ganglion; thin, easily burst under the skin by pressure, which is the proper treatment. 2. A thickened bursa in the same place, filled more or less with liquid, some- what tender and inflamed. Rest, fomentations, and anti-arthritic purges. 3. The same bursa in an indolent state; thickened but not tender. Iodine paint, or empl. hydrarg. 4. The same in a state of sup- puration. To be treated like any other abscess or fistula, accord- ing to its condition. 5. Different from all these is a distortion of the foot, in which the great toe is thrown outwards, whilst the head of the metatarsal bone pi-ojects and forms a swelling on the inner side of the foot; but the foregoing bursal swellings may be superadded. This affection depends on natural formation, and the changes induced by age and labour, and, above all, by gouty enlargement. Beyond properly- fitting boots, roomy at the toes, tightly fitting the instep, there is little to be done for this; unless any tendon which pulls the toe outwards can be divided, and the joint be restored by extension with a splint; all the preceding four vai-ieties, however, are curable. VII. Contraction of the Fingers generally depends, not on any spasm of the tendons, but, as Mr. Partridge has shown the writer, on shortening and rigidity of the palmar aponeurosis and tendinous sheaths; or on a ligamentous degeneration of the areolar tissue on the palmar aspect of the fingei's. This is a part of the morbid changes accompanying chronic rheumatic arthritis. Treatment.—Friction and extension are of no use. But the con- tracted tissues may be divided by subcutaneous section. If any of the muscles of the fore-arm be rigid, its tendon may be divided. VIII. Congenital Contraction of Fingers is generally seen in the little finger, and is not very uncommon. The finger can be straightened, but the skin is then seen to be very tightly stretched in a line at the junction of its radial with its palmar surfaces, and, as it were, continuous with the cutaneous web between the fingers. The last phalanx of the finger is always drawn inwards, as well as bent; and * Lonsdale, Med. Gaz., June, 1849.