701 WHITLOW. tight shoes. If this state be permitted to increase, suppuration occurs, and an ulcer is formed with fungous and exquisitely sensitive granula- tions, in which the edge of the nail is embedded, and which ol'ten pro- duces so much pain as totally to prevent walking. Treatment.—The objects are to remove the irritation caused by the nail, and reduce the swelling of the soft parts. In most cases, if the nail, having been well softened by soaking in warm water, is shaved as thin as possible with a bit of glass, the pain and irritation may easily be allayed by rest for a day or two, with fomentations and poultices; and then any ulcer that has formed will soon heal, with the aid of black wash on lint, or a touch of lunar caustic. But if the case is more obstinate, the edge of the nail may be removed, by passing the sharp blade of a pair of scissors resolutely under the nail, cutting it through, and then quickly tearing away the offending portion with for- ceps. The pain attending this opei'ation i-enders chloroform expedient. XI. Onychia Maligna is a peculiarly unhealthy ulcer occurring at the root of the nail, either of the fingers or toes, but more fre- quently of the latter. It com- mences with a deep-red swelling, and an oozing of a thin ichor from under the fold of skin at the root of the nail; and, lastly, an ulcer is formed, with a smooth tawny or brown surface, a very fetid sanious discharge, and swelled jagged edges of a peculiar livid dusky hue. It is in general extremely painful, especially at night. This affection often springs from acquired or inherited syphilis. Treatment.—Mr. Wardrop recommended a course of mercury, as for tertiary syphilis. As a local application, a solution of arsenic (liq. arsen. Sij.'ad aq. ,^ij.) was recommended by Mr. Abernethy ; or solu- tion of nitrate of silver, or black or yellow wash.f XII. Whitlow, or Paronychia, signifies an abscess of the fingers. There are four kinds: the cutaneous, subcutaneous, tendinous, and car- huncular. The cutaneous whitlow consists of inflammation of the sur- face of the skin of the last phalanx, with burning pain, and effusion of a serous or bloody fluid which elevates the cuticle into a bladder. This is often eczematous in its character and origin. The subcutaneous is attended with greater pain and throbbing, and suppuration under the skin at the root of the nail, which may come off. Treatment.—In the first two forms purgatives, followed by tonics ; fomentations and poultices are the remedies. It is but seldom that in- cisions are demanded further than to let out the fluid from beneath the raised cuticle or skin. The dead skin or cuticle should be carefully * From a cast in the King's College Museum. t Vide Lawrence, Lectures, in Med. Gaz.; James "Wardrop, F.R.S.E., on Diseases of the Toes and Fingets, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. v.