698 KNOCK KNEES. the splint should he 1:^ inch in width and made of wood, or sheet iron, softly padded. When by this means the foot is sufficiently everted so as to form a sti-aight Hne with the leg, and does not exhibit any dis- position to turn inwards upon the removal of the bandage ; when, in fact, instead of varus, a state of extreme equinus has been produced,— the [Second stage may be commenced. This consists in dividing the tendo Achillis, and subsequently bringing down the heel by means of a Scarpa's shoe; or in slight infantile cases the foot may be bandaged to a bent splint applied in front of the ankle-joint. In slight cases it is by some recommended to divide all tlie tendons at once, but the objects are best accomplished by dividing the treatment into two stages. In severe adult cases, and where the deformity is exti'eme, and accom- panied with much rigidity, the same principle is to be followed, but a more complicated apparatus is desii'able. That invented by Mr. Adams, and described in his lectures on " Orthopaedic Surgery," appears to be well adapted for these cases.* III.—Weak Ankles and Flat Foot,—In this affection the foot is flattened, its arch is sunk, and the astragalus forms a projection below the internal malleolus, rendering the internal boj-der of the foot con- vex, instead of concave. In bad cases the inner ankle almost touches the ground, and the patient walks with great pain and lameness. This affection depends on weakness of the muscles, especially of the tibialis anticus ; also on undue curvature of the tibia ; it is often congenital: and affects lai'ger numbers of the English than of the Irish. Treatment.—The patient should wear shoes or boots with high heels, and with the inner edge of the heel much thicker than the outer. He should also be directed to turn the foot out very little, if at all. Benefit may also be derived from a well-applied bandage, such as is re- presented at p. 72. It should always be applied so as to be carried round the ankle from the inner side of the foot. In severe cases the patient should wear a boot with a piece of steel or whalebone fastened to the sole, and passing pei-pendicularly upwai'ds to the middle of the inner side of the leg, and having an india-rubber pad to support the arch of the foot.f An india-rubber spring, as advised by Mr. Barwell, to supply the place of the tibialis anticus, deserves trial. iV. Knock Knees are treated by Mr. Lonsdale on the same prin- ciples as the crooked rickety leg; by adapting a long well-padded splint to the outer side of each limb, fastening it below by straps and buckles at the outer ankles, and above by a broad belt, to which both splints are attached, and which is buckled round the body at the level of the hollow part of the loins. The splints should be hindered from coming too far forwards, and should bear well against the trochanter and outer ankle. Meanwhile, the knee is to be drawn into its proper place by a * Med. Times and Gazette, 1856. t The writer has devised a good boot for these cases, made by Currie, Opera Arcade, London, S.W.