563 STRANGULATED HERNIA. brought nearer, as regards safety, on a level with one in which no opera- tion has been performed. The argument is confirmed by experience ; and this mode of operating should always be adopted, unless there is some reason to the contrary. It is especially advisable, when the hernia is of very great size, and has been long irreducible, so that the idea of returning its contents could not be entertained; and when the hei'nia is small and of quite recent date. In a similar case, M. Gue'rin has divided the stricture by means of a subcutaneous incision.* Mr. Gay's modification of this operation consists in making a small incision, near the neck of the sac, and carrying the tip of the forefinger to feel for the seat of stricture, and dividing it by a histouri cache. We shall allude to this operation again when speaking of femoral hernia, to which it is chiefly applicable ; and may remark that the advantages claimed for it are, that it meddles only with healthy parts, is slight, comparatively safe, and easily performed, and that there is no long convalescence. Seutins Plan.—Baron Seutin has described a method of dilating the stricture, which he has employed so successfully that he rarely has had occasion to use the knife for strangulated hernia. It consists in insinu- ating the tip of the forefinger into the consti-icting orifice, pushing the skin before it, and dilating it forcibly. There is a germ of reason in this which makes it well worthy of trial. It is open, however, to the serious objection that the already injured and strangulated viscera are exposed to further damage by the forcible traction and pressure of the finger.f Hernia reduced en masse.—When the taxis is used forcibly for the reduction of a strangulated hernia, the tumour, sac and all, may be forced back through the herniary aperture, and lie between the abdo- minal muscles and the peritonaeum; or between the muscles and the fascia transversalis. Or, according to Mr. Birkett, the neck of the sac may be burst, " so that the intestine escapes into the loose connective tissue between the peritonaeum and internal abdominal fascia." In such a case, the symptoms of strangulation continue, and altliough the tumour disappears outwardly, yet there will be symptoms of fulness and tendei-ness above Poupart's ligament, in the situation of the internal ring. The first thing to be done is to make the patient stand up and cough, in order if possible to bring the hernia down again, when it should be operated on without delay ; but if this does not succeed, a * Vide Fergusson's Practical Surgery, p. 526. Gu^rin, Gaz. M(5d. de Paris, 7th Aug. 1841; Mr. Key's Memoir, on dividing the stricture external to the sac; I,uke, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi. t The surgeon seeks with his forefinger for the aperture that has given issue to the hernia, pushing up the skin sufficiently from below: then with the pulp of the finger towards the bowel or omentum, he insinuates it between the viscus and the aperture. This proceeding demands perseverance. When intro- duced, the finger is to be hooked, and made to stretch the ring till a sensible dilatation or tearing is produced. The plan appears to have been most success- ful in femoral hernia; and when stricture was seated at the external abdo- minal ring. Quoted in Ranking, vol. xxiv., p. 164.