INFLAMMATION. 33 SECTION V.—PROGRESS AND TERMINATIONS. Inflammation, once established, may destroy life, either by impeding the functions of some organ necessary to life, as the heart, lungs, or brain ; or by quick exhaustion or syncope, as in inflammation of the abdominal organs ; or by slower exhaustion, from suppuration. Or it may end in complete subsidence {resolution, as it is technically called) and recovery, provided that the blood be purified, and that the changes which have been effected in the cell elements of a solid part, are confined to absorption or swelling, and have not gone on to the production of matters which must perish or suppurate; and that local irritation be done away with. Then sleep, appetite, and moisture of the skin return ; the pulse becomes natural and the urine deposits a copious brick-dust or lateritious sediment of lithate. Besides death, and recovery, it is customary to treat of certain palpable eftiscts, or as they used to be called, terminations of in- flammation. These are, 1st, Hxmorrhage, fiom the rupture of over- distended capillaries; 2nd, Serous exudation; 3rd, Fibrinous exudation, constituting the so-called adhesive inflammation; 4th, Suppuration ; 5th, The destruction of the affiscted tissues in detail or in mass ; yaiying from the softening and absorption of caries, or the fatty degeneration of white softening of the brain, or the slow erosion of an ulcer to the gangrene of an entire member. According to Hunter, these different effects were produced by differences in the intensity of inflammation, which were supposed to decrease as the distance from the centre increases. Thus at the outskirts of an inflamed part there will be a ring of serous effusion or oedema: within this a solid layer of fibrine, ^which forms a sac, within which is pus, formed by the softening of the central fibrine. If to the serous effusion, adhesion, and suppiwation, thus present, we add hxmorrhage, and gangrene or the death of some of the tissues involved, and idceration, or a process of disintegration by which pus is discharged, we have the six terminations of inflammation ; although, be it observed, every one of them singly may occur quite independently of inflammation. SECTION VI.—CAUSES AND VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. The cause of inflammation may be anything which disturbs the ordinary nutrition, function, or growth of a part. 1. Local causes.—The most effective \?, over-exertionthe compel 1 in2; a part to go through the processes of wear and tear, and demanding of it an amount of repair beyond its powers. Alternations of heat and cold, which disturb the chemical changes going on between the blood and the tissues; injuries of every sort, mechanical and chemical, especially such injuries as leave a part half-killed, or in which the processes of 9 pair are interfered with, so that the new cell-formations and exudations are killed, and left to decompose; poisons of all sorts, especially septic poisons, which communicate a state of decom- D ' D