80 LUPUS NON EXEDENS. of the system, from respiring air loaded with miasmata from diseased animals, or from eating their flesh ; or by local inoculation of the dis- eased fluids. Mr. Lawrence gives an account of a man in Leadenhall Market, who accidentally smeared his face with some stinking hides from South America. The part touched by the putrid matter very soon became red, and swelled, and mortified, and the mortification spread over half the cheek. He lias also met with two other cases alFecting persons in a horse-hair manufactory. It is believed that flies which have alighted on the ulcers of the diseased animals convey the virus, and infect other animals and human beings. The constitutional symptoms and morbid appearances are those of putrid typhus ; the treatment, both constitutional and local, is the same that we have directed for hospital gangrene.* XIII. The Ulcer of the Cellular Membrane, which burrows under the skin and destroys that tissue, must be treated as the fistulous or weak, according to circumstances. XIV. Menstrual Ulcer. This name is given to ulcers occurring in chlorotic young women, and exuding a sanguineous fluid at the time of their monthly discharge, if that be absent. Wounds made in ope- rating will frequently do the same. Treatment.—The chlorosis must be remedied by steel, aloes, &c., and the ulcer be treated on general principles. XV. Lupus non Exedens (Serpiginous Ulcer of the Face) is a most obstinate form of ulcer affecting the face, chiefly of young women of a delicate or scrofulous constitution. It begins either as a shining, soft, circumscribed swelling of the skin, usually on one ala of the nose, which ulcerates ; or else as a mere crack or small excoriation, covered with a thin scab, under which it slowly spreads. When the scab is removed, the discharge, which is scanty and viscid, soon dries and forms another larger one. The ulcer is constantly spreading in one direction, and healing in another; it may last for years, and wander over the whole face, completely destroying perhaps the alse of the nose or the eyelids, but in other parts not penetrating the entire thickness of the true skin. The cicatrix is excessively irregular and shining, and of a dense whiteness, causing perhaps eversion of the eyelids and distortion of the features ; in some parts it feels soft and pulpy. The cause and pathology of this affection are unknown. Ulcers of the same nature infest the lining membrane of the nose, the stomach, and intestines of scrofulous young women. The treatment consists in the use of soothing local applications, such as water-dressing, black wash, or very weak solution of nitrate of silver or of lead, and of a nutritious diet, cod-liver oil, sarsaparilla, bark, iodide of iron, and other tonics; in some cases of the chloride of arsenic in the dose of ten drops thrice daily at meal times, F. 97, from which the author has seen remarkable benefit in cases treated by Mr. Hunt. A mild purgative, F. 38, should * Lawrence, Med. Gaz. vol, v. p. 392; Diet, de M6d. AH. Charbon, PustuU maligne; Schwabe, Brit, and For. Eev. vol. vii. p. 550 ; Lend. Med. Gaz., 21st Oct. 1842; South's Chelius, vol. i. p. 65.