200 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. nary organs, together with most temperate habits of living. Copaiba, either alone or combined with astringents, F. 176, tincture of steel, F. 13, 180 ; and cantharides, especially in combination with zinc, F. 179, are the most useful remedies. The bowels should be kept pro- perly open, but saline purgatives should be avoided. If the patient wants to make water oftener than natural, and there is an uneasy sensation in the urethra afterwards, and the xirine deposits a mucous cloud, buchu and uva m-si (F. 181) will be advisable. It is also useful to inject the urethra with cold water from an elastic bottle twice a day. If the urine is preternaturally acid, or alkaline, or the diges- tive organs deranged, the case should be treated as directed in the section on urinary deposits. If the health is materially enfeebled by debauchery or malpractices, affusion of cold water on the genitals, cold sea-bathing, blisters to the perinfcum, bark and steel, good living, and perfect chastity of body and mind are the necessary remedies. If other means fail, a smooth metallic bougie may be introduced every other day, or the porte caustiqm of Lallemand may be introduced, for the purpose of slightly touching the whole of the canal with the nitrate of silver. For gonorrheal rheumatism the patient should be confined to bed, and have warm baths. The bowels should be well cleared by calomel, and then ammonia with lemon-juice, F. 58, every four or five hours, and a dose of Dover's powder at bed-time. In the chronic stage. F. 63 or 72 at bed-time; iodide of potassium, F. 9,4, sarsaparilla, bark, A'olatile tincture of guaiacum, sea air, tonics, and warm bathing, are the remedies. Treatment of Gonorrhcea in Woman.—During the acute stage, rest in the recumbent posture, fomentations of decoctions of poppy- heads and camomile flowers, frequent hip-baths, lubrictxtion with lard or ung. plumbi diacet., and very frequent sponging with a weak solu- tion of alum, or of acetate of lead, F. 117,135,136, a piece of lint dipped in which should be inserted between the labia, with saline purges, F. 39, 58, and anodynes, F 30, are the measures to be adopted until heat, pain, and tenderness subside; afterwards injections of alum or sulphate or acetate of zinc should be used, and be continued for some time after all discharge has ceased. The patient should be supplied with powders, containing 60 grains of alum, or of sulphate of zinc ; or if there be some heat and soreness, 30 grains of alum and 30 of acetate of lead, either of which may be dissolved in a quai t of water, and used as applications in the course of the day, by means of an india-rubber syringe capable of injecting a continuous stream. The vagina should be previously washed out with water, whilst the patient sits in a tepid hip-bath, which also should contain a dessert-spoonful of alum in solution. Terehinthinate medicines (copaiba, &c,) do no good unless the discharge proceeds from the uiethra or its vicinity. It is supposed that these medicines produce their good effects by being excreted with the urine, and so coming in contact with the diseased surface. Hence it has been proposed to use injections of copaiba, and