HAEMORRHOIDS. 591 forming a solid tumour with the thickened cellular tissue around. Agaiuj'the mucous membrane of the whole circumference of the bowels becomes swollen and hyper- trophied, with its surface ex- ^^^^^^^ftl tremely vascular and sensi- ^^^^^^^^ out at every evacuation of the -^^^^^iiJ^^S^^—-^ bowels; causing great pain from being compressed by the sphincter until fairly put back into its place, and bleeding freely from the straining and pressure ; or there may be a formation of erectile tissue, chiefly made up of capillaries, and bleeding freely when touched and after evacuation of the faeces. Lastly, there may be one or more distinct pendulous tumours, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a walnut, of a pale or reddish- brown colour when indolent, but dark or bright red when congested or inflamed. These add greatly to the discomfort and tendency to prolapse. External Piles may be met with, 1, in the form of round hard tumours just at the margin of the anus, and covered half with skin and half with mucous membrane ; or, 2, of oblong ridges of skin ex- ternal to the sphincter, commonly called blind piles. Symptoms.—Piles may be met with in two states—indolent or in- flamed. When indolent, they produce the inconveniences that neces- sarily result from their bulk and situation, and from getting within the gripe of the sphincter ; more or less pain in defsecation ; prolapse ; and if not pain, yet a sense of weight and discomfort that is exces- sively annoying, and that renders the mind inapt for matters requiring deep thought. Sometimes, too, the bowel is apt to come down when the patient is taking exercise or exerting himself. When inflamed, they occasion the following symptoms: Pain, heat, itching, fulness, and throbbing about the anus—a sensation as if there were a foreign body in the rectum—pain and straining in passing evacuations. These symptoms may, in violent cases, be complicated with irritation of the bladder, frequency of micturition, pain in the back, pain and aching down tlie thighs. The young surgeon should remember, that a patient with piles may not be aware of the nature of his complaint, or through delicacy may abstain from mentioning it. Whenever, therefore, a patient complains of unusual irritation of the bladder, or of symptoms of dysentery—that is to say, frequent, painful, and unsatisfactory efforts to pass motion—the surgeon should always make inquiries after piles. In women, piles may cause aching of the back, uterine irritation, with mucous discharge, and many anomalous symptoms, which the sur- geon will in vain endeavour to cure until he finds out the l eal cause. The haemorrhage from piles will be treated of more particularly at p. 595. * Piles after excision, showing the dilated veins, of which they are in a great measure composed. tive. This swollen membrane is apt to become prolapsed, or, in plain English, to come