KEMAEKS ON HERNIA. 565 umbilicus, and the extraordi7ia)-y, such as the linea alba, and the thyroid and ischiatic foramina. It would be a terrible thing to be treating a patient for enteritis, and let him die of strangulated intestine. 2. The patient may have a tumour, at one of the common seats of hernia, which is yet no hernia. The commonest example of this is an enlarged gland at the bend of the thigh. Yet if, with such a tumour, a patient should have symptoms of strangulation, the surgeon should not hesitate to cut down upon it. There often has been found a small hernia behind such a tumour; and in any such case the rule is, if in doubt, operate. 3. The patient may have a hernia, reducible, or irreducible, which yet is not the cause of the symptoms. There are numberless causes of internal strangulation, which may exist along with a hernia. First, the bowel maybe strangulated within itself; a condition known as intussusception, and described at page 547. Secondly, it may be strangulated by an awkward twist on its own axis. Thirdly, it may be tied down by some accidental band, the result of previous infiammation ; a thing that should always be inquired for. In women, bands of adhesion not seldom exist between one ovary and some adjoining part: and this should be borne in mind. Fourthly, the bowels may be simply matted together by recent adhesions, the result of subacute inflammation. Fifthly, they may be thrust through an aperture in the diaphragm. (See Diaphragmatic hernia.) So that in any case, if the condition of a hernia does not account tor the symptoms of strangulation, the possi- bility of some other cause should be looked for. The following cases may be examples. The author was sent for to see a stout elderly man, whom he found in bed, with vomiting, and intense pain of eight hours' duration. On inquiry, it was discovered that he had an umbilical hernia ; but this was reduced and not tender, although there was great tenderness and fulness in the vicinity. The bowels had been open the day before. Two grains of opium were administered. At the next visit, the writer was shown a large quantity of bloody serous fluid which had passed from the bowels. Another dose of opium was given, and the patient kept under its influence. Late at night some bilious matter passed, and the patient gradually recovered. These were symptoms of intussusception. Whilst the author was correcting these pages in 1857, he was sent for to see a patient set. 57, ill for a week, with pain in the bowels and vomiting. The man's countenance exhibited severe sutfering ; he was constantly vomiting a white frothy liquid, and said he had burning pain in his stomach. Had had double-scrotal rupture from infancy. On examination both ruptures were thoroughly reduced ; and the forefinger, pushing the flabby scrotum before it, could be passed up through ten- dinous apertures an inch in diameter, into the abdomen. Everything was soft in the neighbourhood. But in the left iliac fossa was a large sweUing, somewhat nodulated. There was great tenderness in the right hypochondrium. Repeated enemata brought away enormous quantities of small pale brown lumps, and the swelling in the sigmoid