133 WOUNDS. as the bleeding might be brought on afresh, and severe inflammation be excited.* If an arter}^ of considerable size is lacerated, which will be known by the situation of the contusion, and the great and rapid swelling, the case must be treated as a diffused aneurism. Fingers and toes, however severely bruised, should not be cut off. CHAPTER 11. WOUNDS. Definition.—Wounds are commonly defined to be solutions of conti- nuity, or separations by external violence of parts normally united, or continuous ;—usually proceeding from the surface of the body or mucous cavities. Varieties.—The incised wounds, or those made with clean-cutting instruments; the punctured, or those made by instruments whose length greatly exceeds their breadth ; including stabs, and pricks of all sorts; the lacerated, in which parts are torn ; and the contused, or those effected by bruising, are the chief varieties. The incised are usually produced with the least violence, and generally admit most easily of repair. The punctured are dangerous from their depth, and from the possibility that deep blood-vessels or viscera may be injured, or that deep-seated extravasation of blood or abscess, may follow. The lacerated and contused wounds are commonly produced with greater violence, less likely to heal, and more prone to slough or suppurate. They do not however, in general, bleed so much as incised and punctured wounds, because arteries, when torn, contract more than when cut. We must remember, however, that we may have a clean tear as well as a clean cut; the definition of a clean wound being that the violence is expended solely in dividing parts, leaving the tissues on either side uninjured. See the Ecraseur. Treatment.—The treatment of all wounds comprises four indica- tions :—1, to check bleeding ; 2, to remove foreign bodies ; 3, to bring the divided parts into their natural position and keep them in union ; 4, to promote adhesion. (1) To check bleeding, moderate pressure, a raised position, and the application of cold, will be sufficient in most cases ; but if the bleeding prove obstinate, the measures must be adopted which will be pointed out in the Chapters on Wounds of Arteries and of Veins. (2) The removal of foreign bodies, if any are in the wound, should be effected as soon as possible, by the fingers or by forceps, or sponge * Hunter on the Blood, part ii. chap. ii. sect. i.