64 PYAEMIA. tioa, warm cloths, moistened with turpentine or sp. camp, may.be applied externally, and bi-andy internally. Incisions are, to use a French expression, the heroic remedy in phleg- monous erysipelas. When the swelling is great, and increases rapidly ; —when it is hard, tense, and resisting, not soft and cedematous, as in simple erysipelas; —when the pain is severe and throbbing ;—when there is the least sensation of fluctuation or quagginess: or when the skin is becoming livid or dusky, or covered with livid vesicles, they are imperatively demanded. They are absolutely necessary for the dis- charge of pus and sloughs ;—for, as James observes, these matters are neither brought to the surface by pointing, nor walled in by adhesion. And they are not merely apertures for the discharge of matter, but a very effectual means of cutting short the inflammation, by l elieving the tension, and by emptying the distended blood-vessels. They are also requisite in erysipelas of the throat, when great swelling threatens suffocation by pressure on the trachea. They should be made of sufficient length—in as many places as required;—they should be carried quite deeply through the diseased tissues, and should be repeated as often as necessary. One, two, or three inches will be a sufficient length in most cases; but it can never be necessary to gash a limb from hip to ankle. They should not be peimitted to bleed long;—and ha'morrhage, if profuse, is best stopped by continued pressure with the fingers on the bleeding points. The subsequent measures are poultices, followed by nitric acid lotion; and bandages to prevent lodgment of matter and sinuses.* During any epidemic of erysipelas, the people within its range are liable to a kind of bilious fever;—i.e., to ail the constitutional symp- toms without the local. SECTION III.—PY.TlMIA, AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF SEPTIC LIQUIDS INTRODUCED INTO THE VEINS. Definition.—Pyaemia is a diseased state of the blood, caused by the introduction of decomposing animal matter; often producing numerous abscesses, or rapid efl"usions of puriform fluid into several organs. Symptoms.—The symptoms are those of puerperal fever, erysipelas, and dissection wounds. If a patient, after parturition, injury, or ope- ration, is seized with severe shiverings, pulse rapid, countenance anxious, weight about the heart, spirits low, healthy suppuration (if any) arrested, tongue dry, tight headache, sleeplessness, sallow skin, and nausea, this disease may be predicated. But there is an almost infinite variety in the further progress and specific symptoms in various cases, depending on varieties in the kind or mode of action of the blood- poison ; and these we proceed to enumerate. I. In some cases the patient sinks; life is extinguished by the * Vide James, op. cit.; Copland, Diet.; Higginbottom on Nitrate of Silver; Copland Hutchinson's Surgical Observations.