LITHOTOMY. 660 one side of the perinseum to the other—carrying it between the anus and bulb of the urethra—opening the membranous poi tion of the urethra—and then pushing a double histouri cache into the bladder, by ^Yhich both sides of the prostate may be divided. Some years since Dr. Willis proposed an operation, which he called LiTHEGTASY, or Cystectasy, in which, after the membranous part of the urethra was laid open, the prostate was dilated by fluid pressure, till it admitted of a forceps being introduced to seize the stone. The success of this operation in the six or eight cases in which it was tried, was not great—probably because the patient was kept too long under treatment.* Allarton's Operation.'—An operation on the same principle has been proposed by Mr. Allarton.f A staff with a central groove is in- troduced, and held firmly against the pubes. The operator having in- troduced his left forefinger into the anus, and pressing its point against the staff in the prostate, passes a long-handled straight-pointed knife into the perinjeum, exactly in the middle line, about half an inch above the anus, till it hits the groove in the staff. Then he moves the point of the knife a few lines towards the bladder, and next withdraws it, enlarging the incision upwards as he does so, to the extent of from three- quarters of an inch to an inch and a half. Next, he passes a long ball- pointed wire or probe along the groove of the staff quite into the bladder, and withdraws the staff. Following the guidance of the wire, the operator insinuates his left forefinger, well greased, along it through the prostate, dilating the parts as it goes onw\ards. Now if the stone is small, it probably comes in contact with the finger; and if the patient strains, will follow the finger as it is withdrawn, and come out. If not, the wound in the prostate may be farther dilated by Weiss's female dilator, or by the end of the forefinger enlarged by the super- imposition of several india-rubber finger-stalls. In cases of difficulty, the stone may be crushed, or the operation converted into the common bilateral one. Amongst the advantages of this operation, Mr. Allarton enumerates the impossibility of missing the bladder; the small amount of cutting, and of danger ; and the fact that the patient, from the wound being in the middle line, preserves the power of the muscles, and can strain so as easily to bring the stone within the reach of the operator. This operation, says Mi-. Thompson, is that by which the bladder is reached with the smallest amount of cutting. " It appears to become dangerous, just in proportion as injury by laceration or over-pressure under the name of dilatation is superadded to the incisions." Want of space is the vice of median operations; they are therefore not adapted for children, nor for large stones, nor for large and rigid prostates; and it is better to incise either side, than use undue force in dilatation. John Wood's Operation.—Mr. Wood, after a limited incision round the front and left side of the anus, opens the membranous * See Willis on the Urinary Organs; Eanking's Abstract, vol. iii., p. 119. f Lithotomy yimplified, by G. Allarton, Lend., 1S54; A Treatise on Modern Median Liihotomy, Lond., 1863.