360 VARICOSE VEINS. SECTION III.—VARICOSE VEINS AND PHLEBOLITES I. Varix signifies an enlarged and tortuous state of the veins, which are generally thickened, rigid, and divided into irregular pouches, witjj their valves incapable of preventing the reflux of blood. This state is usually said to be caused by anything that retards the venous circu- lation ; such as occupations that require a standing posture; or pi-essure from loaded bowels or the gravid uterus. But there must be some other cause, because varix often occurs when there is no pressure on the veins to account for it; and if produced by temporary pressure in healthy people, it subsides of itself when that pressure is removed; a fact that is familiar to practitioners in midwifery. Moreover it may exist to a great extent without causing much inconvenience ; and in other cases, a very small amount of it may produce very serious evils ; such as pain, soreness, aching. Hence the writer believes that in many cases the blood is primarily at fault, and that a gouty condition of this fluid, with tendency to stagnation, precedes the distension of the vein. It is most frequently seated in the lower extremities, scrotum, and rectum. Varicose veins on the leg pi-oduce several troublesome consequences* 1. In the first place, they occasion great pain, weight, and fatigue upon taking much exercise, or remaining long in an erect posture. 2. They frequently cause ulcers or excoi'iation of the skin. 3. Sometimes a vein becomes exceedingly thin, and bursts, causing a profuse or even fatal haemorrhage, inasmuch as there may be no valves between the part ruptured and the heart. 4. Occasional clotting of the blood occui-s in the affected vein, with inflammation ; which may perhaps give rise to abscess. Treatment.—This may either be palliative or radical. The pallia- tive consists of measures adapted to prevent further enlargement, and induce contraction of the distended veins. If one or two trunks only are affected, it may be sufficient to apply pieces of leather spread with soap-plaster firmly over them ; but if many smaller veins are enlarged, the whole limb should be well supported with a calico or caoutchouc bandage, or laced stocking, which should be applied in the morning, before the patient rises. Friction with a flesh-brush is strongly recom- mended by Mr, Vincent; but in all cases the friction should be in the course of the blood, not against it, so as not to strain the already weakened valves. Galvanism may be of service. When the patient is not taking exercise, the leg should be placed in a raised position. But the author would call attention to the little-noticed fact, of the great aggravation of pain, weight, and swelling of the aflected part, produced by inactivity of the bowels and kidneys, and of the great relief obtainable by purgatives, antiarthritic medicines, and tonics. But if these means fail, and the patient is subject to urgent incon- venience, the radical cure must be resorted to; that is to say, the diseased veins must be obliterated: a proceeding which will have some