632 ORGANIC DEPOSITS IN THE UEINE. given regularly and largely, and introduced into the rectum, is the chief remedy. Injections into the bladder of strong solution of extract of poppies, or of salts of morphia, may be tried. VIII. Cancer and Epithelioma sometimes affect the bladder either in the form of solid deposits, or of vegetations. The ordinary symptoms are frequent desire to make water; and uneasiness in the region of the bladder, aggravated after micturition, and often extending to the glans penis, perinseum, rectum, and groins. The urine is gene- rally turbid, and deposits an adhesive purulent mncus, and it is very frequently mixed with blood, in irregular clots ; and with these, portions of cancerous substance, or of epithelial granulations, are sometimes intermingled. These symptoms, combined with the absence of a cal- culus, and the probability perhaps of detecting a tumour within the bladder by means of the sound, or by examination of the rectum; or the tumour formed by the thickened bladder in the hypogastrium, and microscopic examination of fragments which pass, are the chief means of diagnosis. The epithelial granulation depicted at p. Ill, was taken from the urine of a gentleman who died of epithelioma. The treatment consists in allaying pain by opiates, and in checking haemorrhage and catarrh of the bladder by gallic acid or tincture of steel, and in giving an abundant diet. IX. Villous Vascular Growth.—A growth of excessively fine arborescent tufts, consisting, like the villi of the chorion, of loops of large capillaries, and clothed with a cell-growth—generally proving early fatal from profuse hgemorrhage. Whether the growth be in its essential nature really vascular or warty, or epithelial or cancerous, or sometimes one or the other, is yet uncertain. Mr, Partridge has collected some cases of this malady, and thinks that the frequent pre- sence of blood in the urine, with no other morbid condition to account for it, is the best diagnostic sign. X. Polypus of the bladder will display many of the symptoms of stone, but may be distinguished by not being moveable. It has been extirpated. XI. Tuberculous disease ; abscesses bursting into the bladder ; and cancerous or corroding ulceration spreading from the bowels, rec- tum, or vagina, must be treated on general principles. section VII.—diagnosis of blood, albumen, pus, and epithe- lium IN THE urine, disease OF THE KIDNEYS, HEMATURIA, AND SUPPRESSION OF URINE. I. Organic Deposits in the Urine.—This is the most conve- nient place for giving a brief description of those organic substances which are occasionally mixed with the urine, through disease of the organs which secrete it, or through which it passes. For a complete account of the subject, we must refer to Dr. George Johnson's work on the kidney, and to Dr. Lionel Beale on the " Microscope in Clinical Medicine." Here we can find room for a few practical remarks only.