MINERAL AND VEGETABLE IRRITANTS. 167 the fore-arm.* The best treatment for such cases is the application of snow or very cold water, followed by evaporating lotions. These, if employed early enough, may prevent gangrene; or even if that have actually occurred, they should be used as long as it appears to be spreading. Subsequently, the part should be wrapped up in resin ointment and cotton wool, and not be disturbed more than is necessary for cleanliness' sake; in most respects, the treatment of senile gangrene should be followed. IV. Chilblains consist in an atonic inflammation of the skin, in- duced in delicate persons by sudden alternations of temperature; such as warming the feet and hands by the fire when cold and damp. They may present themselves in three degrees. In the first, the skin is red in patches, and slightly swelled ; with more or less itching or tingling, or perhaps pain and lameness. In the second, there are vesications— the skin around being bluish or purple. In the third degree there is ulceration or sloughing. Treatment.—Friction, with stimulating liniments, such as F. 146 ; or liniment of turpentine, or of camphorated spirit, is the pi'oper remedy. In most cases, port wine, bark, and cod-liver oil will be of great service. If there ai"e vesications, care must be taken not to break them ; and the liniment must be applied lightly with a feather. If there a.ve ulcers or sloughs, and they are attended with much heat, pain, and irritation, poultices are required. But as a general rule, poultices are too relaxing; and stimulating ointments or lotions (such as ung. resince, calamines, zinci, &c.) should be preferred. CHAPTER YI. THE EFFECTS OF MINERAL AND VEGETABLE IRRITANTS. Of these substcuices, some appear to act by their power of combining with, or of decomposing, the animal textures. Of others, especially the vegetable poisons, the reason of their hostility to animal life has yet to be discovered. I. Acids.—This decomposing agency of the concentrated acids appears to depend mainly on their affinity for water. The sulphuric acid blackens or chars the tissues in destroying them ; that is, separates the water and other constituent elements, and sets free the carbon. The nitric turns them permanently yellow. The hydrochloric leaves a dead white stain. The hjidrofluoric " is, of all known substances," says Turner, " the most destructive. When a drop of the concentrated acid of the size of a pin's head comes in contact with the skin, instantaneous disorganiza- tion ensues, and deep ulceration of a malignant character is produced."! Phosphorus seems to act by the heat disengaged in its combustion. * Quoted in South's Chelius, vol. i. p. 12S. t Elements of Chemistry, 5th edit. p. 377.