315 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. by which the leverage afforded by the length of the limb is made avail- able for tilting the head into its socket. For this purpose the elbow is straightened, and the limb raised and moved in a circular direction, so as to dislodge the head of the dislocated bone, and enable the muscles to draw it into its socket. Mr. Skey uses an iron knob, instead of the heel. The extension used in reducing the dislocation forwards must be made in a direction downwards and backwards. For the dislocation backwards, extension should be made forwards. After reduction a pad should be placed in the axilla, and the arm and shoulder be supported for some days with a figure-of-8 bandage, a few turns of which should confine the arm to the trunk. Warm fomentations—perhaps leeches—and subsequently frictions, will relieve tlie pain and swelling. The more weak and flabby the patient, or the oftener the dislocation has occurred, the longer will confinement be necessary, in order to allow of a complete consolidation of the ruptured ligament. In fact, when the dislocation has occurred more than twice, an apparatus consisting of a clavicle bandage, with a broad band round the head of the humerus, should be worn for some months, so as to restrain the motions of the joint. It has been before directed that this and all other dislocations should be reduced as soon as possible after the injury. If the reduction has been delayed till the muscles have fixed the part, and the patient is robust, it may be necessary to bleed or administer tartar-emetic or chloroform, and to make a long, slow, and gentle, but unremitting ex- tension by the pulleys. When the extension has been continued some time, the surgeon may gently rotate the limb by the foi-e-arm, or lift the head of the bone. If the dislocation has lasted some time, there will be still greater necessity for a tedious operation. Sir A. Cooper's opinion was, that a reduction ought not to be attempted after three months. But the criterion which Mr. B. Cooper proposed is a better one ; and that is, the degree in which the arm has been exercised, and the amount of useful motion which it has acquired in its new situation ; for, in proportion as the head of the bone has formed for itself a new socket, so most likely will the old socket have become unfit for its reception again. There are numerous instances on record, of the most disastrous and even fatal results that have ensued from attempts at ] eduction at a later period: the integuments and muscles have been lacerated ; abscess has formed, and been followed by anchylosis of the joint; nay, even the whole side has been palsied from injury to the cer- vical vertebrae, and the axillary artery has been torn across. Injuries of the shoulder-joint are liable to be followed by various obstinate and intractable affections, owing probably to the superven- tion of the state described at p. 294, as chronic rheumatic arthritis. The capsular tendons, and long head of the biceps waste away, and the arti- cular surfaces are altered in shape, and partially displaced. Such cases were formerly described as dislocation upvoards, and rupture of the biceps. Sometimes the deltoid muscle wastes away, owing, probably,