LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. 511 excited by the contact of the foreign body, which not only hindei-s it from escaping when driven up to the glottis by the breath in expiration, but puts the patient in danger of suffocation as well. In the first place, theiefore, if the substance be moveable, and round, and the symptoms not urgent, let the patient be kept quietly in bed and under the influence of narcotics, in doses proportioned to the age; such as syrup of poppies with tincture of henbane and a little ipecacuanha. Then probably the substance may become coated with mucus, and may be expectorated during an effort at coughing or vomiting. If the symptoms be more urgent, let the patient be put quickly under the influence of chloroform, with the same purpose of lulling the muscles of the larynx ; when narcotized let him be turned upside down ; a child may be held with his head downwards, and be slapped on the back without ceremony; for a heavy person an apparatus will be neces- sary, in order to fasten him into a chaii-, such as was contrived by Mr. Brunei when he had swallowed the half-sovereign. But if this proceeding does not answer, or if it seems to induce the risk of suffocating the patient, the au'-tube must be opened ; and this for two reasons : in oi der, first, to provide means for breathing; and secondly, to provide, if necessary, for the extraction of the intruding substance. For it must be remarked, that the irritability of the glottis subsides, so that the foreign body may pass through it, so soon as an artificial opening is provided. II. LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY.—The air-tube may be opened either through the larynx, or through the rings of the trachea. The former operation is the more quickly and easily performed on an adult; it is further from the lungs, and less dangerous. Tracheotomy is more difficult and tedious ; but is necessary if there is any idea of in- troducing a forceps. Laryngotomy is performed by cutting longitudmally through the skin, then through the cricothyroid membrane, which may be felt as a soft depression, an inch below the pomum Adami. Tracheotomy is thus commonly directed to be performed :—The head being thrown back, an incision, an inch and a half to two inches long, must be made exactly in the middle line from below the cricoid cartilage to the top of the sternum. The skin, superficial fascia, and f;\t, are then divided; the sternohyoid muscles are separated with the point of the knife; the loose cellular tissue and veins are cleared from the front of the trachea with the fingers or handle of the scalpel; the thyroid gland, if in the way, is pushed up; a tenaculum is hooked into the trachea to draw it up slightly and steady it; then the surgeon seizes the moment, and whilst the trachea is stretched, sticks in his knife, with a slight jerk, at the bottom of the wound, and carries it upwards, so as to divide two or three of its rings. Various other methods of performing Tracheotomy.—There are several instruments and plans which have been devised, for the purpose of rendering tracheotomy a more easy and safe opei ation. Amongst these we may mention first, Dr. Charles Edwards's plan of operating