EPITHELIOMA. 472 the left more often than the right side. There must be some sort of predisposition; but the first attack can very often be traced to some slight but incessantly renewed irritation, and especially smoking short earthen tobacco-pipes. Teeth encrusted with tartar, and the habit of holding rough twine between the lips, have been alleged as causes in particular cases. The disease begins as a crack or excoriation, covered with thick epidermis ; or as a wart; or as a superficial hardness of the skin ; and it usually begins on the red prGkibmm, or on the edge where this joins the skin. In its earliest stage it may continue, for a very long time, stationary or slowly progressing; most likely repeatedly shedding flakes of epidermis, and silently increasing in breadth and glands under the jaw swell; the muscles and lower jaw-bone are at- tacked by ulceration and caries; the teeth drop out. The health, sound at first, begins to give way ; and the influence of this intense local irritation, combined with the difficulty of taking food, and the absorp- tion of fetid secretions, are amply sufficient to destroy life. This disease, as to its nature, is probably in great measure local, and destroys life by its local progress, not by general diffusion over the system, as cancer. Its morbid anatomy has already been amply de- tailed ; suffice it to repeat that the dermis, the enlarged papilljE, muscles, glands, and bone are abundantly infiltrated with scaly epithe- lium ; and Paget relates that in two out of seven autopsies, epithelial deposits were found in the heart or lungs. The only wonder, considering how abundant the epithelial nuclei are in the neigh- bourhood of the diseased part, is, that this is not universal. The diagnosis is generally easy ; yet in the earlier stages it might be diffi- cult to distinguish it from any other ulcers caused by irritation and disorder of the health. Mr. Earle showed that all the appearances of cancerous disease might be assumed by common ulcers near the outlets of the body, if subjected to much irritation, but that such ulcers admit of cure by removing foul teeth and other sources of mischief, and at- tending to the general health. The presence or not of enlarged cuta- neous papillae may serve as a diagnostic mark. Treatment.—Extirpation, free and eai ly, is the only remedy worth speaking of; and the surgeon's chief anxiety should be to remove all the affected tissues, without regarding the patient's appearance. The depth. At last, however, possibly from some irritating local applica- tion, a stage of active progress sets in, and is accompanied by corroding ulceration; and then comes a foul ulcer with hardened base, fungous wart-like edges, and surface covered with scabs of dried pus and epithe- lium, or exuding a fetid sanious discharge. If it proceeds unchecked, the lip is destroyed; the saliva dribbles from the mouth; the