EXAMINATION OF THE MEATUS. 453 CHAPTER XIII. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EAR. SECTION I.—EXAMINATION OP THE EAR. Examination of the Meatus.—Every surgeon ought to accustom himself to examine the external passage of the ear, and to become fami- liar with its appearances, both in health and in disease. We may pre- mise that this canal is in the adult about an inch and a half long ; that its course is inwards and slightly forwards ; that it presents a slight curve with the convexity upwards, and is narrowest about its middle. It may be said to have three divisions, which differ in structure and ap- pearance. In the first or outermost part of the tube, the passage, says Sir W. Wilde, is " Ibrmed almost entirely of pure fibro-cartilage covered with its perichondrium," and lined by the same tine dermal structure that invests the auricle. "Here the skin is studded over with fine white hairs pointing inwards, and also with numerous sebaceous glands or follicles. It is here also more loosely connected to the cartilage than at any other part of the tube; and this accounts for the fact that small circumscribed abscesses occur in this part of the canal more frequently than in any other. The next portion of the tube may be called the glandular division, because in it are seated the ceruminous glands that secrete the ear-wax; this is about three-eighths of an inch long, and is the narrowest portion of the tube." Its walls have less of cartilage, and more of dense fibrous membrane in their composition, and its der- mal lining is tiner. When in a healthy state it is generally lined with wax, which forms a ring, coating this part of the meatus. The tliird and last portion of the passage is generally slightly dilated, and its walls consist of bone covered by a thin dermoid layer which also serves as a periosteum. Tliis part of the meatus, like the menibrana tympani, can only be seen satisfactorily by means of a speculum, the best of which is a silver tube of conical form, with its small end of an oval shape and slightly prolonged so as to support itself in the meatus. The best means of making this examination is either to use the direct rays of the sun, or to reflect into the speculum the light from a window, by means of a mirror: that used for the laryngoscope is very suitable. The surgeon should take the auricle with one hand and gently draw it outwards and backwards, whilst with the other he inserts the speculum as far as it will go without pain. Then by gently moving the large end of the speculum from side to side, a stream of light may be made to play on the innermost portion of the meatus, and on the membrana 1861; Operative Ophthalmic Surgery, by Haynes Walton, 2nd edit., 1861; Hulke on the Ophthalmoscope, 18151; Wells on Long, Short, and Weak Sight, 1862 ; Ophthalmic Hospital Reports, from 1857 ; The Ophthalmic Review from April, 1864.