619 KUPTURE OF THE URETHRA. fectly vitalized tissues, in a constitution, perhaps, already almost worn out. In whatever manner a stricture has been cured, the bougie should still be used at intervals, to prevent a fresh contraction. SECTION III.—URINARY ABSCESS, EXTRAVASATION OP URINE, AND FISTULA IN PERINiEO. I. Urinary Abscess is a frequent consequence of stricture. Either an abscess forms in the cellular tissue close to the urethra, and after a time opens into that canal; or, perhaps, one or two drops of urine escape into the cellular tissue, in consequence of ulcera- tion of the urethra behind the stric- ture ; and this small quantity of urine produces inflammation, so that an ab- scess forms, filled with dark-coloured putrid pus. This may make its way behind the pubes, or between the bladder and rectum ; and may point above the pubes, in the groin, or even burrow into the fascia of the thigh. But its more usual course is to produce a tumour, pointing in the perinseum, forming be- tween or in front of the layers of the triangular ligament. Symptoms.—A patient with old stric- ture complains of rather more difficulty of micturition than usual, and of some amount of obscure swelling of the scro- tum or perinseum, of an oedematous kind. There may be little or no pain, and little inflammation for the first twenty-four hours; after this the swell- ing increases; if in the scrotum rapidly ; if in the periuEeum it will be deep, hard, and painful, but not prominent. Shiver- ing, hot skin, and dry tongue follow. Treatment.—The abscess should be opened immediately, and the patient may soon be brought from the gates of death to comparative health. It will also be expedient to cut through the stricture as directed in the last section, and pass a catheter into the bladder. II. Rupture of the Urethra and Extravasation of Urine. —This is another consequence of old stricture, and it generally happens * This cut exhibits the urethra laid open; a stricture at the commencement of the bulbous portion; and false passages, one of which leads into an abscess that surrounds the membranous portion.