PERMANENT STRTCTURE. 611 knows what he is about will prefer to have an instrument that will obey his hand, and which is adapted to the normal direction of the pas- sage. He will, therefore, prefer a metallic sound. But if the instru- ment is to be introduced by the patient himself, it may be flexible ; and if the canal is tortuous from disease, and the natural direction lost, and the unnatural direction difficult to find, it may be convenient for the surgeon to use a flexible instrument, in the hope that it may find its own' way into the bladder. In the first place the surgeon desires to ascertain whether there is a stricture, and if so, wheie. For this purpose he takes a full-sized sound, i. e., one that will enter the orifice easily, and fill it; and having warmed, oiled, and passed it through his hand to make sure of its polish, he introduces it in the manner directed for the introduction of a catheter, if it seems to meet with an obstruction, it should be drawn a little backwards, then most gently pressed onwards, to see if it will enter, and be grasped by it. If not, it may be exchanged for a smaller one, and gentle persevering trials be made—not too much at one time—to get the instrument fairly into the stricture. The surgeon should allow it to remain in for five or six minutes, by which time probably the patient will complain of sickness or faintness ; and when he withdraws it, should make a note of the size. After three or more days—more or less according to the pain and irritation caused—the process may be repeated ; and it must be gone on with at the same interval, with a gradual increase of the size of the instrument, till the canal is restored to its natural calibre. For some months afterwards it is expedient to pass a sound about once a fortnight. Chloroform may be given if there is great pain or difficulty. Metallic bougies, or sounds made of silver, or steel plated, are always to be preferred to those of soft materials, 1st, if the stricture is old and very hard and gristly ; 2ndly, in cases of very irritable urethrae, because their smooth polished surface is not so apt to cause spasm; Srdly, in cases where a false passage has been formed, which these in- struments, as they can be directed with greater precision, can be better made to avoid. They should be eight or nine inches long, not smaller than No. 4, their curved part need not be so long as that of a catheter, and they should be mounted on a firm wooden handle, and their point should be made to slide along the upper surface of the urethra when near the bulb, as it is below and at the sides that false passages generally exist, and are most easily made. These instruments may also be used for the cure of old impassable strictures in the following way :—A sound of moderate size, about one- fifth or one-sixth of an inch in diameter, may be introduced once in three or four days, and be firmly pressed against the stricture for from five to fifteen minutes, taking care to keep its point against the upper part of the urethra. This will cause the anterior part of the stricture to relax a little ; and if the process is repeated often enough it will at last clear the way to the bladder. Or a sound with a conical point may be introduced into the anterior part of the stricture, and kept