345 ANEURYSM. as in the skin ; when it bursts into a serous cavity, it is generally by a crack or fissure. Causes.—The predisposing cause of" aneurysm is some pi-e-existing degeneration of the arteries. The exciting cause may be, strong emotion of the mind, violent exertion of the body, or local injury. Men are very much more subject to it than women ; and it is espe- cially a disease of middle life, being most frequent between the ages of thirty and fifty, although Mr. Syme has met with it in children of seven and eight. Situation.—The most favourite situation of aneurysms is in the aorta, near the heart; but if aneurysms of the aorta are excluded from our consideration (since they are not to be relieved by any surgical interference), we shall find that, of all the arteries of the limbs, the popliteal is the most frequently affected. Thus, out of 179 cases of spontaneous aneurysm collected by Lisfranc (not including any of the aorta), there were 59 of the popliteal artery ; 26 of the femoral in the groin; and 18 in the femoral at other parts; 16 of the carotid; 16 of the subclavian ; 14 of the axillary; 5 of the external iliac; 4 of the innominata ; 3 of the brachial, common iliac, and anterior tibial, re- spectively ; 2 of the gluteal, internal iliac, and temporal, respectively ; and 1 of the ulnar, perinseal, internal carotid, radial, and palmar arch, respectively. Dissecting Aneurysm.—This variety of aneurysm begins with ulcer- ation of the lining membrane of an artery at some diseased spot, in such a way that the blood penetrates between the arterial tunics, split- ting them up, and making false passages between them. In this way very anomalous symptoms may be produced, of which no better example can be desired than is afforded by a case of Dr. Todd's, related in the 27th volume of the Med. Chir. Transactions. In this case, ulceration had taken place in the aorta, and this was the starting-point of a split- ting up of the middle arterial tunic, which extended upwards through the innominata into the right carotid, and partly into the left, and downwards nearly as low as the kidneys. The getting in of the blood between the coats of the arteries stopped the circulation through the proper canal of the vessels; and caused softening of the anterior por- tion of the right hemisphere of the brain by depriving it of its supply of blood ; besides suppression of urine, and other symptoms that would have been almost inexplicable, unless a post-mortem examination had been performed. Spontaneous Cure.—Every aneuiysm does not pursue the fatal course we have described, but in a small number of cases a spontaneous cure is. produced. 1st. The most natural and obvious, although unhappily a very infrequent mode of cure, occurs, when a laminated coagulum lines the sac, in sufficient quantity to resist further dilatation ; or con- versely, when the piopulsion of blood into the tumour is so languid as to allow of the formation and solidification of that clot. And here we must observe that a distinction is to be made between an active and a passive clot. The active consists solely of fibrine slowly deposited from