312 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. Ill, Dislocation of the Shoulder-Joint may occur in three principal dii'ections. The head of the humerus may be thrown down- wards, forwards, or backwards; besides which, it may be partially dislocated forwards and upwards. 1. In the dislocation downwards or into the axilla, which is the most common, the head of the bone slips between the subscapularis muscle and the long head of the triceps, and rests upon the outer or axillary border of the scapula, pressing upon the axillary plexus of nerves, between the subscapularis muscles and the ribs. Symptoms.—The arm is lengthened; a hollow may be felt under the acromion, where the head of the bone ought to be; the shoulder seems flattened ; the elbow sticks out from the side, and cannot be . made to touch the ribs ; and the head of the bone can be felt in the axilla, if the limb be raised; although such an attempt causes great' pain and numbness. Diagnosis. — There are three fractures liable to be mistaken for this dislocation, viz., fracture of the acro- mion; of the neck of the scapula; and of the neck of the humerus. The first two may be known by the facility with which the form of the joint is restored by raising the limb, and by the crepitus felt on doing so. In fracture of the cervix humeri, the limb is short- ened, instead of being lengthened as it is in dislo- cation, there is not so much vacuity under the acromion, and the rough angular end of the shaft may be felt in the axilla instead of the na- tural smooth head of the bone. 2. In the dislocation forwards, the head of the humerus is thrown on the inner side of the ooracoid process, and may be felt under the clavicle. Symptoms.—The arm is slightly shortened ; the elbow projects back- wards ; the acromion seems pointed, especially behind, and the head of the bone cannot be felt under it. 3. In the dislocation backwards, the head of the bone may be felt on the dorsum scapulae; and the elbow projects forwards. There is a fulness behind and a hollow under the acromion. 4. In the partial dislocation forwards, the head of the bone is