TREATMENT OF FEACTURE. 251 nicely adjusted, and kept at perfect rest. The material which unites a fractured bone fills up the medullary cavities, and renders the part quite solid at the seat of injury. The last stage in the process of repair consists in the absorption of superfluous bone, and the restoration of the medullary cavities. This may be completed in from six to twelve months. The material by which fractures were con- solidated was called, in old surgical works, callus. If the broken ends are accurately ad- justed together, it is simply deposited between them, with very slight infiltration of the peri- osteum, and slight, if any, projection of callus. If the ends are not accurately adjusted, the callus fills up any angular interspaces, as shown in the adjacent cut. This cut also exhibits the formation Of what is called a provisional callus, that is to say, a ferrule of new bone encircling both fragments for some little distance above and below, so as to splice them together firmly, before they are actually united by a permanent callus. It was formerly taught, that this is the regular mode in which the union of broken shafts of long bones is accomplished. But later researches have shown, that the doctrine of formation of provisional callus is generally true only in the case of animals, in whom it depends on the constant movement and disturbance to which their bones when broken are subjected; and in the human subject it is generally true only as regards the ribs, which ai'e bones almost in perpetual motion.* The source from which callus was exuded, was verj'' much disputed in the last generation. Doubtless in the most favourable cases, of simple fracture nicely adjusted, and uncomplicated by inflammation, it pro- ceeds from the bone and periosteum only. Yet any neighbouring fibrous tissue, is probably also capable of exuding a lymph or generating a cell growth which will ossify; nay, if the greater part of the shaft of a bone be removed or necrosed, the lymph yielded by the periosteum, if sufficiently preserved, may be converted into a new bone. Experiments made on animals by M. Oilier of Lyons show con- clusively that a portion of periosteum removed from all connections, except those absolutely necessary for its continued vitality, will pro- duce bone even in most unnatural situations, such as under the skin of the back or neck. Bones that do not unite.—The neck of the thigh-bone, the olecranon, the acromion, coracoid, and coronoid procesess and the tuberosity of the os calcis, patella, and other bones invested with synovial membrane, do not * See Mr. Lawson's case of Provisional Callus in neglected Fracture of the Femur in a child: Med. Times, 19th Feb. 1859.