CANCER OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 387 effused into the cavity of the araGlmoid, before any adhesions form be- tween the two layers of that membrane, no nerves will, in Mr. Hewett's opinion, be connected with the sac. Terminations. — The tumour ^ formed by a spina bifida may -. , ~ ... vary in size from that of a turkey's egg to that of an adult head ; and its integuments may be thick and covered with a dense cuticle, or may be thin and transparent. In some cases the tumour bursts during the act of birth; in most others, after the patient has lived some months or years, it becomes enor- mously distended., and ulcerates, the patient speedily dying of the irritation. In one case, of a young woman, aged 27, which came under the author's obser- vation some time ago, and which was afterwards under the care of Mr. Walsh, the tumour re- lieved itself when distended, by the exudation of a watery fluid through a minute apei ture. In some few cases the patient lives to the ordinary span of life, with- out being troubled with the de- formity. There is, further, a gi-eat variety in the amount of incon- venience attending it. Sometimes it is combined with congenital hvdro- cephalus ; sometimes with club-foot; sometimes with more or less palsy of the legs, or incontinence of urine (which symptoms are easily accounted for by the wasted and compressed condition in which the cord and its nerves are often found), whilst in other cases there are none of these inconveniences, unless the tumour is compressed or inflamed. Treatment.—We have been thus minute in describing the real nature of this disease, in order to deter the surgeon from hazardous attempts at curing what must almost inevitably be an incurable malady. We read of cases in which the tumour has been cut off, and the edges united by twisted suture ; or, in which it has been included in a ligature and tightly tied; but these plans will not be readily adopted by any one who would rather not open the spinal membranes, or injure the cauda equina. The operation of puncture, too, is generally followed by speedily fatal results. Therefore, we think the surgeon's wisest plan is, merely to apply moderate support by means of a hollow truss, From the King's College