271 FKACTURES OF THE HAND. Treatment.—The elbow being bent and steadied, the hand should be grasped and powerfully extended, and at the same time somewhat adducted. A pad should be placed along the extensor side of the fore- arm, and the thickest part of it should correspond to the displaced fragment of the radius, against which it should press, so as to push it forwards, and somewhat in the prone position as well. Another pad should be placed on the flexor side, but should not reach lower than the margin of the superior fragment. " An anterior and a posterior splint," says Dr. Smith, '* are then applied, each of which should be at least an inch broader than the forearm; the posterior should extend from the elbow to the fingers, and should be curved from the wrist downwards to receive the adducted hand; the anterior need not descend below the palm of the hand; a roller is then to be carried around the splints in the usual manner." Three weeks should elapse for a young patient, and four or five for an old one, before the wrist is moved ; and the patient should be informed at first that some months will elapse before the use of the part is restored. VII. —Fractures of the Hand.—The carpus is rarely fractured without so much other injury as to render amputation necessary. Fracture of the metacarpal hones^ or of the phalanges, will be readily recognised. The former usually project forward when broken, by the preponderating action of the anterior muscles. With respect to com- pound fracture of these parts we may observe, that no part of the hand should be amputated unless positively necessary, and even one finger should be saved if it can be done. Treatment.—For fractures of the carpus, middle metacarpal bones, and first phalanges, it is a good plan to make the patient grasp a ball of tow or some other soft substance, and bind his hand over it; for fracture of the lateral metacarpal bones, it is better to support the hand on a flat wooden splint, cut into the shape of the thumb and fingers. If one finger only be fractured, it may be confined by a thin lath or paste- board splint. It must be recollected that the palmar surfaces of the metacai'pal and digital bones are concave. They must, therefore, be slightly padded before they are bound to any flat surface, or they will unite crookedly. VIII. Fracture of the Ribs is generally situated in their anterior half, and is commonly caused by direct violence, such as blows; the bone giving way at the point struck. Sometimes, however, it is caused by indirect violence; as, for instance, when the chest is violently compressed between two points. In 1837, several people were crushed to death iu a crowd in the Champ de Mars, in Paris, and many of them were found to have several ribs broken in this manner. Sometimes, in old subjects, one or more ribs are broken by violent coughing.* Symptoms.—Fixed lancinating pain, aggravated by inspiration, coughing, or any other motion. By tracing the outline of the bone, or by placing the hand or the stethoscope upon it, crepitus may be felt * See an interesting paper on Fracture of the Ribs, by M. Malgaigne, in the Arch. G^n. de Med. 1838, quoted in B. and F. Med. Rev. vol. vii. p. 554.