ERYSIPELAS. 62. ing, headache, pain in the back, nausea, and bilious vomiting; and both are attended with fever, which will vajy in its type according to circumstances. It may be of a sthenic inflammatory character, if the disease affect a young robust countryman : but it soon assumes a low typhoid character if the patient is old and weak ; or if the disease were contracted in some close, foul, ill-ventilated hospital, or if a large por- tion of cellular tissue has begun to slough. Terminations.—The cutaneous erysipelas may terminate, 1, in resolution, leaving nothing but desquamation of the cuticle with slight oedema ; 2, but more i'requently it produces lai-ge bullcB or vesicles from effusion of serum under the cuticle;—and these dry into scabs, which peel off, and leave the cutis either healed, or superficially ulcerated. 3. Sometimes, however, it is followed by small abscesses. The ordinaiy duration is from seven to fourteen days. Before its termination, however, this variety of erysipelas sometimes assumes a lingering erratic character, wandering progressively along the skin, and spreading m one direction as it fades in another. Some- times it disappears entirely from one part, and flies by metastasis to a distant one ; and sometimes it quits the skin suddenly, and some in- ternal oroan is affected with an inflammation having the same constitu- tional characters. Tlie p/i/cj/inonoiis or celhih-cidaneous erysipelas may terminate as favourably as the simple variety;—Init it moi'e geneially leads to un- healthy suppuration ami slon-Iiiiig of the cellular tissue;—in which case the swelliii;^^ bei onies llaccid and qnojigy;—patches of the skin become purple, and covered with livid vesications, and these patches slough, giving exit to a thin saiiious ))iis, and to fiakes of disorganised cellular tissue. And not only the sul)cutaneoiis, but the intermuscular tissue and fascial may slough, rendering the limb useless, even if the patient escape with his life. Moreover, after a very severe attack of erysipelas, the cellular tissue is apt to be left in a hardened, brawny state, through infiltration with lymph. Prognosis.—This must be guarded if the patient is old, enfeebled, and habitually intemperate ;—if the fever is of a low cast; if the malady is situated on the head or throat, and there is coma or great dyspnoea;—or if the erysipelas is of the phlegmonous variety, and a large portion of the cellular tissue and skin is on the point of slough- ing. The return of suppuration in ulcers, and the formation of abscesses, are most favourable signs. Local Varieties.—Erysipelas usually attacks any part of the body which is injured or wounded; and in new-born children the vicinity of the navel; but where there is no external injuiy it usually manifests itself on the forehead : whence it may spread to the scalp, throat, and trunk. Erysipelas of the scalp is apt to be complicated with headache and delirium in the eaily, and coma in the later stages ; and erysipelas of the throat with great dyspnoea. Treatment.—The indications for the constitutional treatment are, to purify the blood and to support Ihe strength;—and for the local