720 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. Yet all the accounts concur in establishing the fact that in the infi- nitely greater number of cases in man, it is by direct paralysis of the heart that death is produced. A remarkable circumstance is the apparent capriciousness of the accident. It has been suggested that in some cases the chloroform has been impure ; but of this there is no proof. In otheis, that the patient's heart was weak, or in a state of oily degeneration. Yet in most cases after death the heart has been found quite sound. In others, that the vapour was given from a handkerchief, and not with an apparatus. But the writer does not hesitate to say, that if the administrator keeps one eye on the breathing and a finger on the pulse, a handkerchief is quite as safe as an inhaler, or safer, provided that but little chloroform be put on at a time. In other cases, again, it has been suggested that the administration was hurried, or careless. And this is no doubt true. The admini- strator, puzzled or annoyed by the persistence of the second or intoxica- tion stage, gives a sudden increase, and the heart stops. There is no peculiar post-mortem appearance to be found in the victims of chloroform. The blood corpuscles have been found crenated or wrinkled at their edges, but this is not universal ; neither has it been shown that this appearance is confined to cases of death from chloroform. Nothing constant is remarked as to colour of the blood; nor yet as to congestion of brain, lungs, or other organs. In the earlier years of chloroform it was sought to be shown that death was due to latty degeneration of the heart: no theory could be more convenient, nor yet more frivolous. The only inference to be drawn was, that any man might have a fatty heart without knowing it, and that therefore chlorofoim should never be administered without the amount of care which ought to be taken if it were certainly known that the heart were degenerate. But the truth is, that a little chloroform may be safely borne by a diseased heart; while much of it will stop the beating of the healthiest. It must be fully admitted, too, that the conditions under which a moderate dose of vapour paralyses the heart are not known ; and that, whilst a lesson of caution should be learned by us all, we have no right to cast blame on any chloroformist who may have the mis- fortune to lose a patient. But the same apparent capiiciousness attends most other instances of sudden death. We do not always know, why any given soft and thin heart should stop suddenly at a given time ; but we do know enough to put us on our guard. In the first place, our object should be, to obtain the greatest effect from the smallest quantity, and to avoid sudden increase. Then, to avoid all circumstances which disturb the heart; and, above all, mental agitation. The sitting posture is to be avoided. The patient should be as nearly as possible under the circumstances that induce sleep. Some good soup should be given an hour before, and some brandy just before