730 TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD. Pressure should be kept up on the wounds for some days afterwards, in order to prevent secondary haemorrhage or false aneurysm.* VI. Transfctsign of Blood.—This is an operation which may be performed in two sets of cases. In the first place, whenever death seems imminent from pi'ofuse loss of blood; especially after flooding in labour; after operations, wounds, and injuries of all kinds, and the bui-sting of varicose veins. In every such case, it is the surgeon's positive duty to perform this operation. Secondly, there are some cases in which death is creeping on from slow starvation through disease, such as cases of cancer, and of any other organic disease that is causing exhaustion, in which it may be a question to be decided by the patient whether the attempt shall be made to prolong life for a few days or even hours. Besides these cases, the surgeon may think it expedient in cholei'a, to inject water containing the saline constituents of the serum. In flooding and other sudden accidents it will almost certainly happen that no elaborate apparatus is within reach, and the surgeon will have to use whatever he can lay his hands on. It is consolatory therefore to know that most of the successful cases of transfusion have been performed with common pewter or brass syringes. The operator must of course find some healthy person who is chari- table enough to spare some of his blood. Then supposing that he has nothing but a common syringe, he must immerse it in hot water, and thoroughly rinse it out so as to cleanse it from dirt. The next thing is to open a vein in the patient's arm, or if there is no prominent vein there, in the leg. It may, if large, be opened with a lancet, as in vengesection, and then a probe be passed into it, to serve as a director for the nozzle of the syringe. The probe ought to pass up freely along the canal of the vein. If there is any difficulty, an incision an inch and a half long should be made over a vein, which should be gently raised on a probe passed under it, and be opened sufficiently. The operator next takes out the piston of the syringe. Then, the arm of the person who is to give the blood having been, meanwhile, bound up, he opens a vein freely, and catches the blood in the syringe, closing the nozzle with one forefinger. When he has taken as much blood as the syringe will hold, he desires the blood-giver to put his finger on the wound to stop the blood; then puts in the piston, holds the syringe with the nozzle upwards, presses the piston so that all air and a little blood may escape, then, whilst a little blood is escaping, he inserts the nozzle into the vein, and gently drives in the blood. Three or four ounces may be injected twice, or thrice, at intervals, according to the effect produced. If the surgeon has time for choice of instruments and for a deliberate * Messrs. Weiss have shown the writer a French instrument, ventouse, as it is called, in which an elastic suction-bottle, with valves, is used to exhaust the air. It appears to be very efficient, and much less troublesome than the torch and spirit of wine apparatus, as the amount of suction can be regulated with the greatest nicety.