DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 412 mence as mere abrasions, or as little nebulous spots, independently of any- other affection. When a consequence of the scrofulous phlycteuulse, they are generally deep, and tend to perforate the cornea, and leave an opaque cicatrix ; when arising from other causes, they are often superficial, and heal with a semi-transparent cicatrix, which gradually becomes clear. part." In this state the case merely requires to be watched, to prevent injurious increase of action. " Secondly, an ulcer may be inflamed, when its hazy circumference will be observed to be highly vascular. Leeches and counter-irritation, with soothing applications, are the remedies. But an ulcer is not necessarily inflamed because it has red vessels going to it: these bring materials necessary for its repair, and are not morbid. " Thirdly, an ulcer may be indolent, clear, and transparent, looking as if a little bit had been cut out of the cornea; v/ithout any vascu- larity or effusion of lymph. This state requires slightly-stimulating applications." Again, ulcers may form on a surface that is already rendered opaque and nebulous by scrofulous inflammation. However, in any case, counter-irritation, and measures to impi'ove the health, together with weak caustic lotion or vin. opii used twice a day, are the chief remedies. The surgeon should remember the tendency of the cornea to slough from insufficient and non-azotized food, as proved by the experiments of Majendie. The pupil should be dilated with belladonna, if the ulcer is near the centre of the cornea. When an ulcer is very irritable, keeping up constant pain and into- lerance of light, in spite of soothing applications, the best plan is to touch its surface with a finely-pointed pencil of nitrate of silver, so as to p]-oduce an insensible film on the surface : this is to be repeated at intervals of three or four days. VII. StaphyI-OMA is a term employed to signify any proti'usion on the anterior surface of the eye. 1. Staphyloma iridis signifies a pi o- trusion of the iris, which occurs when the cornea is perforated by ulcere or wounds. The term myocephalon is applied to the protrusion of a very small piece of the iris through an ulcerated opening in the cornea. For the treatment see p. 395. * This figure exhibits the healing stage of an ulcer of the cornea. It is copied by Mr. W. Bagg from a drawing for which the author has lo thank Mr. Partridge. 'J " These ulcers may," as Mr. Tyr- rell observes, " exist in three states. First, that which we may term healthy, when the surface and cir- cumference exhibit a degree of hazi- ness or opacity of a whitish or gray aspect, which is owing to the effusion of adhesive matter on the surface, and in the surrounding texture, which is essential to the healing of the