479 ABSCESS OF THE ANTKUM. about him. He some time since treated a highly-respectable female, who had long been afflicted in this way, and had been cruelly salivated by a chemist, and excoriated with a nitrate of silver injection, with which she had been supplied at an hospital. The relief afforded by a large syringe daily used so as to wash away all clots and collections of matter with a copious stream of warm water, to which a little chloride of zinc, F. 127, 136, may be added, is unspeakable. A leech or two should be applied to the inside of the nostril if the bridge of the nose is tender, or if there are any marks of obstruction about the lachrymal duct. The citrine ointment, F. 168, may be thoroughly applied by a camel's-hair brush, and bark, iodide of potassium, cod-liver oil, and other anti-scrofulous remedies be administered in tedious cases.* 3. Syphilitic Ozoena requires no further remarks ; but we must add that some cases of the appaiently scrofulous variety, in children, may have their origin in congenital syphilis. The presence of foreign bodies should always be inquired into in any case of discharge from the nostrils. VI. Imperforate Nostrils.—The nostrils are sometimes imper- forate, owing to congenital malformation. The passage may (if the parents wish it) be restored by a cautious incision, and must be kept open with bougies. If, however, the obstruction be seated far back it ought not to be meddled with. SECTION III.—AFFECTIONS OF THE ANTRUM AND JAWS. 1. Abscess of the Antrum may be caused by blows on the cheek, but it more frequently results from the irritation of decayed teeth. It has been caused in a newly-born infant from injuries received during parturition ; the face having presented to the pubes.f The symptoms are permanent aching and uneasiness of the cheek, preceded probably by acute throbbing pain and fever and rigors, and followed, if an opening is not made soon, by a slow general enlai gement. This, if permitted to increase, causes bulging of the cheek, extrusion of the eye, obstruction of the lachrymal duct, depression of the hard palate, loosening and dropping out of the teeth, and closure of the nostril. The parietes of the cavity sometimes become so thin from distension, that they crackle on pressure like parchment. Sometimes (though rarely) the matter makes its way into the nostril; and sometimes the abscess points externally, or bursts into the mouth. Treatment.—A free aperture may be made into the cavity. If either of the molar teeth be loose or carious, it should be extracted, and a trocar be pushed through the empty socket into the antrum. But if all the teeth are sound, or if they have been all extracted before, an incision should be made through the membrane of the mouth above the alveoli of the molar teeth, and the bone be pierced by a strong * See a Paper by R. Druitt, for further details of the Treatment of Ozsena, Med. Times, 1858, vol. ii., p. ill. f G. A. Rees, Med. Gaz., N. S., vol. iv., p. 860.