99 TUMOUES. A third group is composed of new and independent development 0? gland tissue, more or less perfect. A fourth of blood-vessels. A fifth is distinguished by the presence of cysts; although cysts may be met with in most tumours. A sixth consists in the local overgrowth fat tissue. A seventh consists of enormous production of epithelium. An eighth, of black pigment. A ninth is distinguished by certain peculiarities in its cell elements ; and no less by its fatality. This is the group of cancer. Formerly all tumours which had the fatality of cancer were consi- dered to belong to a group apart, and were called malignant; whilst the remainder were called benign or innocent. 1. Of the benign, it is assumed that they originate in a sort of local error of formation. That they are homologous, or homaomorphous, or, in other words, identical with, some of the normal tissues of the body. That they may be continuous with normal tissues of the same soi't, but circumscribed, discontinuous, and not infiltrated amongst a variety of other tissues. That there may be many in one individual, but usually in the same tissue. That they are perfectly compatible with a high state of health. That they have an uncertain period of increase, after which they may remain stationary for an indefinite time, or may undergo a process of fatty or earthy degenei-ation. That they may, by their bulk and situation, cause oedema and paralysis, or obstruction to various canals; or may inflame and suppurate; or may undergo ulceration or sloughing, and so may seriously impair the health ; but that all these ill consequences are local and accidental, and cease if the tumour be re- moved ; and that if effectually removed, there is no return, either in the same, or in any other place. 2. Of the malignant, on the contrary, it is said that they possess the following marks : 1. They are of constitutional origin. 2. Their progress is generally rapid. 3. They increase constantly; 4, are at- tended with pain ; 5, return if cut out; 6, are liable to be diffused over the body from increase of the materies morbi; or 7, are liable to secondary deposits, from being absorbed from one part and deposited in another ; 8, they are attended with cachexia; 9, they resist all treat- ment; 10, they infiltrate every tissue in their vicinity; 11, soften inwardly; 12, ulcerate outwardly ; 13, invade the lymphatic glands ; 14, are hetei'ologous in structure, that is, resemble no tissue naturally found in the body ; and lastly, after a time prove fatal. The only tumour possessing all these marks is cancer.* 3. There is a third, intermediate class, of semi-malignant or cancroid growths, including those which have some, but not all of the vital cha- racteristics of cancerous growths ; as well as those which (like the fibro-plastic) resemble cancer in their coarse appearances, though not in their real structure. But in truth, there is no absolute line of demarcation between ma- * See a paper on Cancer, by R. Druitt, Association Journal, Jan. 1854.