THE LARYNGOSCOPE. 508 use and application of the instrument. In these islands it has been particulai'ly studied by Dr. George D. Gibb, from whom the writer re- ceived much valuable information for previous editions of this book ; also by Dr. Morel! Mackenzie, Dr. George Johnson, Dr. Walker, junior, of Peterborough, and Mr. Smyly of Dublin.* II. The Apparatus required is first of all a means of illuminat- ing the th]-oat; and secondly, a mirror reflecting to the observer's eye the image of the parts that he wishes to see. The illumination may be direct or reflected. In the direct method, the surgeon places the patient so that a stream of sunshine, or the light of a lamp is turned directly into the throat. Lamps of various kinds are used, and some of them intensified by a reflector behind, or a bull's-eye condenser in front of the flame, or both. But most operators prefer to put the lamp in the same position as it is in for the ophthalmoscope, and to throw the light into the mouth by means of a reflector. This reflector, a circular mirror, may be used as that of the ophthalmoscope, being fixed before the eye, and having a central aperture through which the observer looks. It may be fixed on a large and strong spectacle-frame, or may be attached to a stem which is held between the teeth. Or the reflector may be worn on the forehead, being attached by a ball-and-socket joint to an elastic band which goes round the head. The mirrors are best made of glass silvered, attached obliquely to stems of adequate length. They are of various sizes, from half an inch in diameter upwards, and are usually square, with the angles rounded off. III. In using the Laryngoscope the practitioner should begin upon himself. There are many methods, but the least complex is that of Dr. G. Johnson, who sits before a common looking-glass, and throws the light of a moderator lamp into his throat. The practitioner must first learn how to warm the mirror very gently at the lamp, so as neither to crack it nor spoil the silvering by the heat, nor yet to have it so cool as to condense the breath. The next thing is to manage the tongue. Most people by a little practice can learn to press the tip behind the lower teeth, and to keep down the mass of it out of siglit; if the patient cannot do this he must put it out as far as possible, take hold of it with a handkerchief in his left hand, and keep it well down, and the hand out of the way of the light. Then the practitioner intro- duces the warmed mirror, holding it against the soft palate and uvula, which he gently lifts without touching the phai-ynx. Whilst he perse- veringly works at this part of his experiments, he will learn, if he did not know before, what the nausea, giddiness, heat in the forehead, and universal dis(;omfort are that belong to sea-sickness. He will pro- bably be shocked at the whiteness of the back part of his tongue; then * See Dr. Gibb's Translation of Czermak on Laryngoscope, New Sydenham See, 1861; on Diseases of Throat and Windpipe, 2nd edit., 1864; Dr. G. Johnson's Lectures, Lancet, 1864, vols. i. and ii.; Dr. Walker's Papers in British Medical Journal, 1862 and 1863; Dr. Morell Mackenzie, Practical Hints, Med. Times, April 19,1862 ; On Hoarseness, Galvanism, &c., 1863; Smyly's Lectures on Laryngo- scope in Dublin Medical Press, 1864.