INJURIES OF THE EYE. 394 For the prevention and treatment of ill-consequences, refer to the Section on Inflammation of the Eyeball generally. Blood effused into the chambers is generally absorbed in the course of a fortnight, if inflammation be kept down. If coagulated firmly, it will take much longer, even months. Rupture of the eye may be caused by a violent blow. Extreme quietude and care should be taken to save any remnant of sight, and to avert dangerous inflammation. Dislocation of the crystalline lens is another possible re- sult of a severe blow. If driven into the anterior chamber, and if the patient is young, and if it gives no trouble, it may be left to nature, especially if there be reason to think that the capsule does not surround it. If, however, it be- comes irritating, or if the patient is above forty, it should be removed. If dislocated into the posterior chamber, it will almost certainly produce disorganization of the eye, if not removed by extraction; and it may be well to bring it into the anterior chamber by means of a needle, before the removal. III. Foreign Bodies. When a patient complains of a foreign body in the eye, the surgeon should first examine the cornea; then the inside of the lower eyelid and lower part of the globe, by everting the lid, and telling the patient to look up. If nothing is dis<'0vered there, the patient should turn the eye downwards, so as to expose the upper part of the globe, and the surgeon should turn the upper eyelid inside out, which may easily be done by taking the eyelashes between the flnger and thumb, and turn- ing the lid upwards over a probe. If any substance stick in the cornea, so that it cannot be removed by a probe, or silver toothpick, or fine forceps, the point of a cataract needle or lancet should be carefully passed under it so as to lift it out. A still more effective instrument is a sort of delicate scoop or gouge, introduced by Haynes Walton; for foreign bodies, when sharp and angular, and particles of hot iron often become so imbedded in the cornea, that they must be scooped out. Perfect rest to the eye should be enjoined, and every other means be taken to obviate inflammation. To remove particles of lime or mortar, the lids should be everted, and the eye be well syringed or sponged with weak vinegar and water, or with oil, or with pure water, if neither be at hand. For injuries with acids or alkalies, ablution or syringing with water is the readiest remedy. We may observe that whenever there is an inflammation of the conjunctiva, with a fair probability that it may have been caused by the intrusion of a foreign body, the strictest and most accurate search should be made ; because an eye might be lost, or the patient subjected to weeks of ill- ness, and of ineffectual treatment, if it were allowed to remain. When- ever a foreign substance has passed within the anterior chamber, if it can be seen and readily seized, it is better to extract it at once, if the * Gouge for removing foreign particles from the cornea.