368 CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. up the wound with collodion, or Friars Balsam on lint; so as to coagulate the blood outwardly, and lessen the risk of suppuration. The patient should be confined to the bed, or to the house, and be purged, and put upon regular bat not low diet. Hamorrhage from small vessels is usually controlled by closing the wound and using pressure. If a large vessel be wounded, it should be tied. Sometimes a blow on the head, which has not pierced the skin, causes an extensive and increasing extravasation of blood under the scalp, rendering it evident that an artery has been divided by the blow. The exact situation of the injured vessel should, if possible, be ascer- tained, and pressure be applied there with a small pad of lint and a well-applied compressing bandage. If suppuration occur, which will be indicated by rigours, chills, and dry tongue, with increase of swelling, attended by a throbbing pain, and if purgation does not remove these symptoms, adhesions may be separated at any suspicious spot; or a moderate incision down to the bone be made at any part where mischief is likely to occur. In- cisions are the sine qua non in suppuration under the scalp. This is usually indicated by a puffy swelling around the eyes and about the temples, with severe pain of a throbbing character in the head. If there is mere serous effusion in this situation, it may, if necessary, be let out by one or more punctures with a lancet. If blood is extra- vasated without a wound, absorption is to be promoted by moderate purgation and cold lotions ; and no incision is to be made, unless posi- tively necessary, on account of the tendency to suppuration and putrefaction which the admission of air promotes. SECTION II. CONCUSSION OR CONTUSION OF THE BRAIN. Definition.—Concussion (commonly called stunning) signifies sudden interruption of the functions of the brain, caused by a blow, or other mechanical injury to the head. Symptoms.—There are two degrees of it. 1. In ordinary cases, the patient lies for a time motionless ,unconscious, and partially insensible; if roused and questioned, he answers hastily, and again relapses into apparent insensibility; after a time he moves his limbs as if in an uneasy sleep, and vomits, and frequently recovers his senses instantly afterwards; remaining, however, giddy, confused, and sleepy for some hours. 2. In the more severe degree the patient is profoundly insensible, the surface and extremities pale and cold, the features ghastly, the pupils sluggish and sometimes dilated, but equal on both sides, unless the brain is injured: in less severe cases they may be contracted, the patient turning away irritably from the light; the pulse feeble and intermittent, or perhaps insensible,, and the breathing slow, or performed only by a feeble sigh drawn at intervals. Vomiting is an important symptom. It is not present in very slight cases, nor in very severe ones ; and its occurrence is mostly an indica- tion of approaching reaction and recovery.