142 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. it may have impinged against some part, such as the cartilage of a rib, which has caused it to recoil; and a ball has been known to drive a piece of bone into the bi'ain, and fall out of the wound afterwards. In some instances a ball has been unable to perforate a fold of linen, but has carried it for the distance of one, or even thi-ee or four inches into the wound; and on drawing this out, the ball of course comes out with it.* Again, it is very possible that two balls may enter by the same aperture, one of which may pass out, and the other diveige and wound some important organ. Sometimes it will happen that a ball splits, either from a defect in the casting, or from its striking agauist some sharp bony ridge, as the vomer, or shin, or edge of a fractured bone of the skull; and although one portion may have been extracted, another may be lodged and may have injured important vessels or nerves. But it frequently happens, that large masses of metal are impacted in the substance of a part without much external sign of their presence, as in a case related at p. 139. Detection of musket balls and other foreign bodies lodged in the wound.—A ditficulty sometimes arises in determining the presence of a bullet in the wound. A hard body may be felt by the probe, but no clear evidence may be thus obtained as to whether it be exposed bone or a leaden ball. The famous case of Garibaldi was one of this kind, giving rise to great ditierence of opinion as to whether a ball were lodged or not in the cancellous substance of the tibia near the ankle- joint. In this case the French surgeon Nelaton, discovered the ball by means of a probe, the point of which carried a bit of unglazed porcelain. The absorbing nature and rough surface of this material enabled it to carry a portion of lead from the bullet when it had rubbed upon it for a short time. The nature of the stain was then proved by the ordinary chemical tests for lead. On the same occasion, a magnetic probe was suggested by Dr. Miller of King's College, London, and constructed by the direction of Mr. Partridge. This probe, on coming in contact with metal at its point, would cause a deflection of a magnetic needle connected with it. No other but metallic substances would have this effect upon the instru- aient. For the purpose of detecting bullets a very simple, etFective, and practical instrument is used in the American army, the invention of Dr. Kress. Upon the end of a common steel probe is fastened a conical * A silk handkerchief sometimes saves life in the same way; and Mr, Home, in his Report on Gun-shot Wounds in Canada, in 1838, speaks of the great power which the canvas lining of soldiers' stocks has in resisting the passage of musket-hixlh.—JidinburgJi 3Jed. and Surg. Jour., July, 1840.