KHINO-PLASTIO OPERATIONS. 463 adjoining pai't; the operation being varied according to the extent of the deformity. But whether this mutilation arise from scrofulous ulceration, or from lupus, or from scrofulous disease of the bones, or from syphilitic disease, plenty of time should be allowed before any operation is thought of, else it may be frustrated by a return of the disease. 1. When the wliole or greater part of the nose has perished, a tri- angular piece of leather should be cut into the shape which the nose formerly presented, and be spread out flat on the forehead, with its base uppermost, and its boundaries should be marked out on the skin with ink. Then the remains of the old npse (if any) are to be pared, and the margins of the nasal aperture are to be cut into deep narrow grooves. When the bleeding from these wounds has ceased, the flap of skin marked out on the forehead is to be dissected up, and all the cel- lular tissue down to the periosteum with it, so that it may hang at- tached, merely by a narrow strip of skin between the eyebrows. When all bleeding has ceased, the flap is to be twisted on itself, and its edges are to be fitted into the grooves made for their reception, and to be fastened with sutures. The nose thus made is to be supported, but not stuffed, with oiled lint; it should be wrapped in flannel to support its temperature, and if it become black and turgid, owing to a deficiency in the return of blood from it, a leech may be applied. When adhesion has thoroughly taken place, the twisted strip of skin, by which its con- nexion with the forehead was maintained, may be cut through, or a little strip may be cut out of it, so that it may be laid down smoothly. 2. The septum or columna nasi is often restored by the same opera- tion with the nose itself, by means of a flap from the forehead; but it is better, as Mr. Liston proposed, to form it out of the upper lip at a subsequent operation. A strip is cut out of the centre of the upper lip, a quarter of an inch in breadth, and of its whole thickness. The frse- nulum having been divided, this strip is turned up, but not twisted ; and its labial surface having been pared off, and the inside of the apex having been made raw, the two latter surfaces are united by the twisted suture, and the wound of the lip is also united by the same. During the cure, the nostrils must be kept of their proper size by introducing silver tubes occasionally. 3. When one ala nasi alone is destroyed, a portion of integument may be measured out on the cheek, and be raised to supply the de- ficiency. But if both alse are lost, or if the cheek be spare and thin, it is better to supply their place with skin brought from the forehead. The slip which connects the engrafted portion with the forehead will of course be long and thin; and in order to maintain its vitality, a groove may be made to receive it on the dorsum of the nose. But when union has occurred, this connecting slip may be raised and cut off, and the groove which contained it be united by sutures. 4. Depression of the apex of the nose is to be remedied by raising the parts, dividing any adhesions that may have formed, making, if necessary, a new columna, in the manner described above, and support-