AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 771 tating knives, saws, artery-forceps and tenacula, ligatures, bone-forceps, sponges, long needles for acupressure, and short needles threaded (or wired), close at hand on a tray, arranged in due order; and he should see with his own eyes that every requisite is at hand before he begins. In this, as in every other operation, it is necessary to place the patient in a convenient posture, so that the operator may not be obliged to stoop. For amputation of the thigh, the patient may be placed on a bed, or on a table covered with a folded blanket; the diseased leg should project sufficiently over the edge, and should be supported at the knee by an assistant, who sits on a low stool in front; and the sound limb may be se- cured to one of the legs of the table with a handkerchief. For amputation of the thigh, in an adult, the surgeon should have a long, straight, sharp- pointed knife. Instead of the common ampu- tating saw, he may, if he pleases, use the in- strument depicted below, and invented by Mr. Butcher of Dublin, al- though it is in excision of the ends of bones that it is most particu- larly useful. It will be seen that the blade, which is 8 inches long, and only •25 inch in breadth, is most tensely stretched between two upright bars, by a screw in the middle of the uppermost cross bar. The tension combined with the fineness of the teeth renders it a capital cutter, whilst from the outset of the teeth, and narrowness of the blade, it cannot well become locked. Moreover it can, when the screw is re- versed, be turned in any direction, and be there fixed, so as to cut backwards or sideways.* Then measures must be adopted for compressing the main ailery and preventing too great loss of blood. This may be done, either by pressure with the hand, or with the tourniquet. Pressure vnth the hand on the main arterial trunk, if eftected by a * The saw depicted on p. 772 differs in some respects from that described by Mr. Butcher, Dublin Journ. Med. Sc., Feb., 1855. Weiss has another modifica- tion of it, suggested by Mr. Busk.