ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 187 Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances are the same both in man and in the horse. Clusters of white granules, or tubercles, or, as Dr. Craigie describes it, of matter like putty or thick pus, are found in whatever tissues the disease has invaded ; in the Schneiderian mem- brane, in the antrum and fi'ontal sinuses, and in the vicinity of the different abscesses. The nasal cavities mostly contain a thick brown gelatinous seci-etion, and are studded with foul gangrenous ulcers, from which project fungous clusters of tubercular matter. Treatment.—The chief points are, to open all abscesses as soon as possible ; to syringe the nasal cavities with solutions of creosote, or F. 117, 127; and to support the strength and abate the thirst with wine or brandy and soda-water, beef-tea, &c. The effluvia must be coun- teracted by fumigations of chlorine and aromatics. In fact, in every variety and stage of this horrible disease, the strength must be kept up, and the poisonous discharges neutralized. Creosote injections, the admi- nistration of iodide of potassium with iodine, and mercurial salivation, in different cases respectively are said to have efi'ected cures.* CHAPTER X. on venereal diseases, section I.—general history and pathology. Definition.— By venereal diseases, we understand the effects of certain morbid poisons, usually communicated by sexual intercourse. But the name venereal by no means implies that sexual intercourse is the only mode by which these poisons can be disseminated. As Astruc says, " The venereal disease may be communicated from the infected to the sound, not in one only, but in several different manners, as often as by close and continued contact, the soft tender warm and moist parts of two difierent persons mutually heat each other."f Varieties.—The diseases which are called venereal, are now arranged under three heads:—1st. Gonorrhoea, which is an inflammation and sup- puration of the mucous membrane of the male or female genitals. It may be communicated by means of the pus, to other mucous membranes, and especially the conjunctiva. (See p. 33.) 2ndly. The chancroid * Vide Elliotson's papers la the Med. Chir. Trans, vols. xiii. xviii. {with a coloured plate) and xix.; the Med. Gaz. vol. xix. p. 939; case communicated from father to son, Lancet for 1831-32, vol. i. p. 698; Rayer, de la morve et du farcin chez rhomnie, Mem. de I'Acad. de Med. 1837; the cases of the patient and nurse in St. Bartholomew's Hospital above quoted, in the Lend. Med. Gaz., April I8th and 25th, 1840; case of acute glanders cured by injections of creosote by Mr. Ions, Lancet, April 30th, 1839; case of acute farcy cured by iodide of potassium with iodine. Arch. Gen. de Med., Jan. 1843; Youatt's book on the Horse, 1845; Burgess's Translation of Cazenave on Diseases of the Skin, Lend. 1842. Case treated by mercury, recovery; Mr. Carpenter of Croydon, Med. Times, Aug. 4, 1855. t Treatise of Venereal Diseases, Lond. 1754, preface.