TALIPES VARUS. 694 soon to resort to Stromeyer's operation of subcutaneous tenotomy; our knowledge of which, and in fact of the entire pathology of these deformities, and the establishment of what is now called ortho' pcBdic surgery, is dated from the publication of Dr. Little's Thesis, in 1837.* The rationale of this operation may readily be comprehended. The tendon being divided, its separated extremities heal by anew connective tissue, which renders it longer, and which, while recent, may be stretched to any desired length. Thus the mechanical shortening of the muscle is neutralized. At the same time, the antagonist muscles, which become wasted and inert, are relieved from a constant state of tension, and are enabled to resume their natural functions, so that the limb has a chance of increasing in strength and bulk. The operation is performed thus :—The tendon is put on the stretch; and a narrow sharp-pointed knife is thrust through the skin on one side of it; then its edge is turned against the tendon, and made to divide it as it is being withdrawn. The tendon to be divided is the tendo Achillis in the talipes equinus. The same in the varus, and those of the tibialis posti- cus, anticus, and flexor longus digitorum. In the valgus, the peronaei and the extensor longus digitorum : any tendons, in fact, which oppose the restoration of the foot to its proper position. It is often expedient to divide a portion of the plantar fascia, or of the muscles of the sole of the foot. Fasciae contract under chronic rheumatism. Imme- diately after the operation, the foot should be put quietly up with splint and roller, with a dossil of lint and strip of plaster over the punc- tures, 'and be retained in the same position of defoi-mity as before the operation. In the course of four or five days, apparatus must be adapted for bringing the part into proper shape. 11. Talipes Varus.—In the foregoing paragraphs we have described club-foot generally. Now we proceed to detail the anatomy more par- ticularly of the talipes Amarus, and in so doing avail ourselves of the description, by Mr. W. Adaras,f of a severe form in an adult female : since essentially similar deviations, especially in the head of the astra- galus, exist in the foetus at birth. J In reference to this deformity, the foot may be regarded as consisting of two portions, which move in different directions upon two distinct centres of motion. The division between these two portions corre- sponds to the articulation between the first and second rows of the tarsal bones, viz.:—between the astragalus and scaphoid, and the os calcis and cuboid bones (indicated by the oblique dotted line in fig. 6). At this great transverse tarsal joint, a considerable amount of motion * Symbolse ad Talipedum Cognoscendum, Berol., 1837. See also Dr. Little's Treatise on Deformities, Lend., 1853. t The writer has to thank Mr. Adams for the three cuts illustrative of the anatomy, which are taken from his original paper in Trans, of Patholog. Soc., vol. vi., 1855. % See vol. iii. of the Trans, of the Pathol. Soc, where representations of the foetal astragalus are given.