AMAUROSIS. 443 of the eye on minute objects ; or exposure to glaring light, especially if combined with heat—and these exciting causes are particularly aided by intemperance, stooping, too much sleep, and any other circumstances capable of producing determination of blood to the head. -Amaurosis may also be a consequence of anaemia, and want of power; of organic change, inflammation, concussion, compression from extravasated blood, fractured bone, morbid effusions, tumours, or aneurisms—whether affecting the brain, optic nerves, or eye. Treatment.—The indications in every case are, 1. To rectify any palpable disorder—inflammation or plethora by depletion; debility by tonics; bad habits, if possible, by moral means. 2. To neutralize de- termination of blood to the eye or head by counter-irritation. 3. To stimulate and restore the excitability of the retina. For practical pur- poses it will be convenient to classify the disease under the five follow- ing heads, viz., 1. Inflammatory ; 2. Atonic ; 3. Sympathetic cases; 4. Those produced by poisons; and 5. By organic disease. Inflammatory.—If amaurosis be attended with any of the symp- toms of retinitis, iritis, or choroiditis, that have been before en umerateiJ, leeching or cupping from the temple or mastoid process may be performed at intervals. The bowels should be well cleared, the diet should be devoid of alcohol, and all employment of the affected organ, and all violent bodily exertion, should be desisted from. Mercury should be administered so as to bring the system gently under its in- fluence. (F. 64.) Counter-irritants of all sorts are beneficial; blisters, or the tartar-emetic ointment applied behind the ears or to the nape of the neck; immersion of the feet in hot water and mustard ; or an issue in the arms in chronic cases. In cases where gout is evident, colchi- cum; where rheumatism, iodide of potassium ; where scrofula, cod- liver oil and iodide of iron may be beneficial. 2. Atonic amaurosis may come on at the close of any exhausting illness, or may be pi-oduced by great loss of blood, menorrhagia, im- moderate suckling, leucorrhcea, excessive venery, or other debilitating circumstances. It has been frequently noticed after diphtheria.* It may be distinguished by its being attended with debility, pallid lips, weak pulse, dilated pupils, and an anemic state of the retina; and the patient generally sees best after a meal or a few glasses of wine, and in a strong light.f The treatment consists, first, suppressing any habitual discharge, or other source of exhaustion. Secondly, in strength- ening the system by change of air, tonics, quinine, steel and zinc, and especially by good living. At the same time the abdominal secretions should be well regulated by aperients (such as aloes and rhubarb), that act copiously, but not drastically; and the cutaneous and general cir- culation be promoted by exercise and bathing, especially the shower- * See Med. Times, 1859, vol. i., p. 659. f The nyctalopia, or night blindness, of the woodmen in Canada is an ex- ample of insensibihty to all light save that of the sun. The moment the sun sets, there is total blindness till daylight. It seems to be caused by hard work and poor monotonous diet, and to be allied to scurvy,—See Hinde's Travels in Labrador.