221 CONGENITAL SYPHILIS. may be discontinued, and be resumed again when fresh symptoms appear. 'J'he writer has had ample opportunity of observing that infantile syphilis is hable to relapse, no matter whether mercury be continued or no, and that it is best to discontinue the drug for a time, so soon as the maximum of benefit to the general health is attained. Local symptoms should be treated with soap and water, black wash, bismuth ointment, &c. If the parents display any symptoms of syphilis, they should be treated for it and be kept apart till cured. When the woman becomes pregnant again, shall any preventive treatment be adopted? The author advises it decidedly, on the ground that alterative mercurial treatment can do no harm, and that it is the best mode of relieving disease of the placenta, whether it arise from syphilis or scrofula. The best remedies are blue pill and conium at bedtime, with small doses of quinine daily : corrosive sublimate in smallest doses, with sarsa, bark, or tincture of steel. F. 03, 83, 87, &c. The CONGENITAL SYPHILITIC TAINT often pursues children to a late period of life. It may or may not affect the general growth and development. This depends on the degree to which the latent diathesis has been called into play, and the amount of actual disease which has existed. The symptoms which in young adults testify to their having suffered fi om syphilitic disease in childhood, are these : first, HutcMn- soYisteetkj^ I'he permanent teeth (not the milk teeth), and especially the central incisors of the upper jaw, are short and narrow, with a broad vertical notch in their edges, and their corners rounded off. The ac- companying drawing of the teeth of the young man mentioned at p. 210 will show what is meant. It is not horizontal notches, nor * So called, after the pattern of " Bright's " disease, in honour of Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, to whose patient and laborious researches we owe almost all we know of the history of hereditary syphilis after childhood. See his Clinical Memoirs on Diseases of the Eye and Ear consequent on Inherited Syphilis, Lond. 1863, p. 204. 4