595 H/EMORRHOIDS. 6. Excision is the proper remedy for external piles. Any very larg'e and loose ridge of skin around the anus may at the same time be re- moved with the scissors, and the edges of the cut be brought together by a tine suture. To apply the ligature to the skin is barbarous. For internal piles, mere excision is dangerous, as the patient might bleed to death. It may, however, be done safely thus :—The tumour havino- been protruded, the base of it should be transfixed by a long needle, which will prevent it from returning into the anus. Then it may be cut off; and the cut surface being exposed to the air, will not bleed, or if it does, it is easy to apply cold, astringents, or ligatures. After twelve hours the needle may be removed, and the part allowed to go up. Mr. Henry Lee has adopted a plan of seizing the part to be re- moved between the blades of a sort of curved forceps, and cutting it off; then touching the cut surface with nitric acid, or, still better, with an iron at a black heat. The pressure of the forceps prevents all bleeding at the time, and tlie caustic not only prevents it afterwards but also renders the patient more safe from pyaemia, hastens the cure, and leaves the parts more braced. Mr. Henry Smith employs for his purpose an ingenious clamp with a screw.* Mr. Wood employs a spoon-shaped forceps, so as to prevent the diffusion of the acid ; and when he seizes the fold of membrane to be extirpated, he holds the forceps with its long axis paralh^ with that of the bowel, so that any subsequent contraction of cicatrix may not contract the calibre of the bowel. If the tumour be very large, he passes through it, from side to side, beneath the blades of the forceps, a thin silk ligature, leaving one end hanging out at the anus ; thus the edges of the wound are hindered from gaping when the forceps is removed. Or the plan may be adopted of cutting through the mucous mem- brane at the base of the pile, so as to make a groove in which the ligature lies, and to shorten the process of separation. The most vascular part of the pile is left, and this may be tightly tied by one ligature, or, still better, be transfixed and tied in two portions.f The eoraseur may be used in some cases. Vn. Warts and Condylomata. See p. 225. Vni. HEMORRHAGE from the rectum is a very frequent concomi- tant of piles, and may be of two kinds. In the tirst place, it may be caused by the bursting of a varicose vein : in which case the blood is venous; and the hemorrhage in general occurs at once in considerable * Described in Lancet, Oct. 4, 1863. t Curling On Rectum, 3rd edit., 1863, p. 54.