178 HYDROPHOBIA. resting-place; appears clouded and suspicious in his countenance, and gazes strangely about him as he lies on his bed. A peculiar delirium is also an early symptom : the dog perhaps springing up and giving an angry bark at some imaginary object. " I have again and again," says Mr. Youatt, " seen the rabid dog start up after a momentary quietude, with unmingled ferocity depicted on his countenance, and plunge with a savage howl to the end of his chain." But if his master speaks to him every fancied object of terror disappears, and he crawls towards him with his usual expression of attachment. Then comes a moment's pause,—a moment of actual vacuity,—" the eye slowly closes, the head droops, and he seems as if his fore-feet would give way and he would fall ; hut he springs up again, every object of terror once more sur- rounds him, he gazes wildly around, he snaps, he barks, and he rushes ao-ain to the end of his chain to meet his imaginary foe." The amount of ferocity displayed by rabid dogs varies exti'emely. Some there are whose fury knows no bounds, and who, if loose, rush out, biting every man and beast in their way. Others, on the con- trary, not only cannot be made to bite, but, in the very earliest stage of the disease, show an increased fondness, and are perpetually trying to lick their owners' hands and face. Many cases are on record of persons who have been thus infected through some accidental scratch or abrasion ; and hence when rabies has been detected in a dog, it is most important to inquire whether any persons have scratches which he may have licked, and if so, these should be cauterized at once. Another early and constant symptom of rabies is change of voice. Every sound uttered by a rabid dog, says Mr. Youatt, is more or less changed. But there are two sounds, in particular, that deserve notice ; one of which is described as a " a hoarse inward bark, with a slight ele- vation of tone;" and the other a most pecuhar and characteristic com- bination of " a perfect bark, ending abruptly and very singularly in a howl, a fifth, sixth, or eighth higher than the commencement." Other symptoms, observed at the commencement of the disease, are, loss of appetite, propensity to lick cold surfaces, such as stones or iron, and to devour straws, litter, and similar rubbish; and peculiar eagerness, in scenting at and licking not only the common urining places, but corners in rooms that are not usually disgraced by this evacuation. This is considered a highly-important symptom. There is no dread of water as in the human being; on the contrary, an in- satiable thirst, which the dog endeavours to allay by lapping as long as he has power over his jaws. The mouth is dry, and the saliva ex- ceedingly viscid; at first, perhaps, it is slightly increased in quantity, but this increase soon passes oft', and the secretion becomes extremely viscid and scanty, sticking to the corners of the mouth, and annoying the poor dog extremely, who may be seen fighting with his paws at the corners of his mouth, as if trying to dislodge some bone which had stuck between his teeth. Thus, the disease when fully formed, is characterised by delirium with more or less ferocity, alteration of the voice, great thirst, and