FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 580 The subsequent proceedings—the return or otherwise of the in- testine, and the after-treatment—are detailed in the preceding section. If the surgeon perform the operation without opening the sac, the first point, says Mr. Luke, is to ascertain the exact seat of the stricture. Now, since the stricture prevents the communication of impulse from any one part of the tumour to any other part beyond the stricture, all that is requii'ed is, to press the tumour firmly between the fingers of one hand so as to cause impulse, whilst with the fingers of the other hand at the neck of the sac, the precise point where impulse ceases is ascertained. At that point will be found the seat of stricture. " The next step is, to incise the integuments so that the centre of the incision shall be directly over the stricture; a proceeding easily accomplished by causing a transverse fold to be pinched up between the fingers and divided by transfixing it with a straight bistoury, in a direction parallel with the long axis of the tumour. The various fascias are subsequently divided, until the neck of the tumour is fairly exposed. If this be carefully and completely done, a depression will usually be observed at the seat of stricture, presenting a more contracted appeai'ance at that part than at others. To the touch this contracted part feels thick, while into it thin layers of fascia dip, which may be mistaken for the stricture itself, but which may be divided wholly independent of it, and no relief arise from the division. When these layers are turned back, the real stricture is exposed to view." Then the next step is, to scarify the thickened pei'itonasum forming the stricture, so as to render it dilatable, without actually cutting through it, and then the taxis is to be used for the return of the hernia. When the stricture is caused by the margin of the external ring, it is easily divided by the hernia- director and bistoury ; when at the internal ring, it must be done by the same means, although the operation is more difficult.* SECTION VII.—FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. Definition.—Femoral hernia is that which escapes behind Poupart's ligament. It passes first through the crural nng—an aperture bounded inter- nally by Gimbernat's ligament—externally by the femoral vein—be- fore, by Poupart's ligament—and behind by the bone. It next descends behind the falciform process of the fascia lata ; thirdly, it comes for- ward through the saphenic opening of that fascia; and lastly, as its size increases, it does not descend down on the thigh, but turns up over the falciform process, and lies on the anterior surface of Poupart's liga- ment. The coverings of this hernia are—1. Skin. 2. The superficial fascia of the thigh, loaded with fat, and divisible into an uncertain number of layers. 3. Fascia piropria, a layer of cellular tissue derived from the sheath of the femoral vessels, blended on its superficial aspect with the/asaa cn6ri/omz's which closes the saphenic aperture. It is in general pretty dense about the neck of the hernia, but thin, or even * Luke, Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxi., p. 108.