DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 610 back, and of great languor and depression of spirits ; and the urine is constantly loaded with fetid mucus. After death, the urethra behind the stricture is found greatly dilated; the prostate, with its ducts dilated, and in a state of suppuration, or perhaps containing small cir- cumscribed abscesses; the bladder sometimes dilated, but more fre - quently contracted, and enormously thickened; sometimes sacculated from a protrusion of its mucous coat between the fibres of the mus- cular; the ureters dilated, and converted into subsidiary receptacles for the urine, and the kidneys either greatly dilated or disorganized. An engraving illustrative of this will be found in the seventh section of the present chapter. Treatment.—remedies for stricture are twofold. The first, which should always receive the earliest and greatest attention, are such as tend to remove any disorder of the stomach, or of the genei-al health, and any irritating quality of the urine, or inflammatory ten- dency about the parts concerned. It must be recollected, especially with people of education, that the mind has an in important share in pro- ducing the SM6/eci<L'5 symptoms of stricture; and that gout will often produce pain and spasm in the perinseum, which can be charmed away by an alkaline purgative and colchicum ; further, that every irritated and infiltrated tissue has a natural tendency to recovery, when the exciting causes are removed. If sexual indulgence, drink, dissipation, and gonorrhoea will produce chronic inflammation and tendency to stricture, it is equally true that chastity, temperance, rest, early hours, warm baths, purgatives, and alkaline remedies may undo the mischief. Hence it is a coarse and violent proceeding to introduce instruments into the urethra of a young man without pressing necessity, until a course of proper treatment has failed ; and it may be a mortiferous proceeding in the case of an old man. Shiverings, fever, suppression of urine, and death may follow. In every case then, admitting of delay, the surgeon should begin by calculating how much of the malady is removable by regimen and medicine, and should remote that first. Warm batlis ; opiate supposi- tories; belladonna smeai-ed on the perinasum ; and alkalies after meals maybe of service. F. 38, 72, 77, 78, 79, 149, 181. (See Gleet, Chrmic Inflammation of the Bladder, and Urinary Deposits.) Then will be the time for the second class of remedies, consisting of mechanical means, such as 1. Dilatation by a bougie or sound : 2. Dilatatioa by means of expanding instruments: 3. By a ca- theter retained: 4. By the caustic bougie : 5. By incision from within : 6. By division from the perinaeum. These we proceed to discuss in succession. 1. The Bougie.—The common bougie is, as its name implies, a wax candle, or cylindrical body composed of linen imbued with wax or plaster. It is flexible, becomes softened by heat, and is supposed to be capable of doing less harm than a metallic instrument, if mismanaged. Similar instruments (less safe) are made of gutta-percha and caoutchouc. But, as has been well said by Mr. H. Thompson, the surgeon who