706 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. James Moore, son of Dr. Moore of Clifford Street, and house-surgeon to St. George's Hospital, introduced a plan for diminishing the sensi- bility of limbs before amputation, by compressing the principal nerves. This he effected by means of an instrument resembling Signoroni's torniquet, depicted in the chapter on Aneurysm, except that his instru- ment consisted of a horseshoe-shaped arch of steel, with a pad at each extremity, and a screw to act upon one of the pads. Moore was per- mitted by John Hunter, in 1784, to try his plan upon a patient in St. George's Hospital, who had lost all his toes, and had a large irritable ulcer on his foot, and whose leg, after having been submitted to the process, was cut off below the knee by Mr. Hunter, with an extremely small amount of pain.* This plan, however, was soon given up; it is not certain, and is not without some disadvantages; for Malgaigne,! who attempted by this means to benumb a patient's leg, before an operation, found that although some amount of insensibility was produced, yet that considerable pain was caused by the instruments used for compression. At the end of the last century the brilliant discoveries of oxygen and other gases by Priestley, Black, and Cavendish, and the fervent study of pneumatic chemistry, cre-dtei a new, though very short-lived branch of therapeutics. The attention of the profession was hopefully dii-ected to pneumatic medicine, as it was called; that is, to the possi- bility of curing diseases, and especially consumption, by the inhalation of various kinds of gases. A Medical Pneumatic Institution was set up at Clifton by Dr, Beddoes,J with huge reservoirs of gases for the use of patients. Humphry Davy, just out of his apprenticeship, was ap- pointed superintendent in 1799;—his experiments on the inhalation of nitrous oxide, created great excitement;—S. T. Coleridge, Robert Southey, John Rickman, P. Roget, Boulton, Watt, Wedgwood, and others, since distinguished as poets and philosophers, eagerly made proof of the effects of the intoxicating gas;—the gaz oxygenium and gaz aciduia carbonicum, and other gases, were introduced into the catalogues of medicinal drugs ; it was now fondly hoped that we were in possession of remedies simple, and certain, for almost all maladies; and even Davy, though far from participating in the sanguine dreams of Beddoes, believed it possible that by various combinations of carbu- retted hydrogen and nitrous oxide, " we should be in possession of a regular series of exciting and depressing powers, applicable to every deviation of the constitution from health." But experience ruthlessly proved the fallacy of these, as of many other ingenious and plausible speculations. In the course of his experiments, however, Davy found that the nitrous oxide relieved him irom headache after a profound fit of intoxication which he had brought on by drinking a bottle of wine * A Method of Preventing or Diminishing Pain in several Operations of Sur- gery, by James Moore, Member of the Surgeons' Company of London. 1784. f Malgaigne's Operative Surgery, by Brittan, p. 42. X A Letter to Erasmus Darwin, M.D., on a New Method of Treating Pulmo- nary Consumption. By Thomas Beddoes, M.D. Bristol, 17u3.