755 SUPERFICIALIS VOL^. side. Except in very thin persons, the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris overlaps the artery, within two or three inches of the wrist, and so does the inner tendon with more or less of the muscular fibres of the flexor digitorum sublimis; so that, in fact, the vessel is not quite superficial. Like the radial it is accompanied by two veins. The median nerve lies first to the inner side separated by the ulnar origin of the pronator radii teres: it then crosses in front of the artery and descends along the middle of the limb. The ulnar nerve becomes attached to the artery at about the lower part of the upper third of the fore-arm, lying to the ulnar side. On the annular ligament, it lies next to the pisiform bone, and rather postei ior to the artery. When there is a high division of the ulnar, the vessel almost always passes superficial to the muscles, gene- rally under the fascia, sometimes above it. To tie the Ulnar AHery in the upper third of its course, a longi- tudinal incision, as shown in the woodcut, a quarter of the width of the arm from the inner edge, which will of course cross the artery, will be preferable to one more in the direction of the vessel; as the edges of the wound can be better separated, and what is of more con- sequence, the natural division that exists between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the next muscle, can be easily found. Should it be requisite to cut between the muscular mass more externally, the division should be made very low, and, if possible, between the tendons of the muscles, and car- ried upwards. The ulnar nerve should be looked for, as when seen it may serve as a guide to the artery. To tie the Ulnar Artery just above the vjrist, requires rather more care than to tie the radial. An incision, two inches long, should be made, and it should be about three-quarters of an inch from the inner edge of the limb. The operator should endeavour to feel the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, and when he can, to cut just external to it. If he cuts too internally, the muscular fibres of the lower part of this muscle will bulge, and perhaps perplex him. After the skin and fascia have been divided, the artery must be sought for, covered by the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is intei nal, and the inner tendon of the flexor digitorum sublimis, and the fibres of that muscle, which is external. The venae comites are to be separated. As the ulnar nerve lies to the inner side of the artery, the needle had better be passed from within outwards. VIII. The SUPERFICIALIS Vol^e, the artery which continues in the course of the radial, and goes to join the supei-ficial palmar arch, is usually small, but yet a frequent source of troublesome heemorrhage when the ball of the thumb is wounded. But it may be a very large artery and bleed profusely, and then must be tied at the seat of injury. Hcsmorrhage in the palm of the hand may, when practicable, be stopped by tying both ends of the bleeding vessel; yet it is seldom that this can be done, on account of the manner in which the vessels retract, and of the density of the surrounding parts. The propriety of enlarging the wound, with the object of effecting this, must depend on the circura-