DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 668 mistaken for hernia, the absence of it from the scrotum, the peculiar pain felt on handling it, the peculiar consistence of the swelling, and the absence of impulse on coughing, are the chief diagnostic marks.* (See p. 570.) In these cases, Mr. Wood recommends the use of a truss with a perforated or ring pad covered by a water cushion of india- rubber. The opening in the pad is to be made large enough to receive the projecting testicle, while the edges of the ring protect it from injury, and restrain the protrusion of the hernia behind the testicle. (See Wood on Rupture.) VIII. Neuralgia of the testis and cord produces fits of excruciat- ing pain, which leave the parts tender and slightly swollen. The treat- ment must be that of neuralgia generally. (See p. 20.) Violent pur- gatives in general do mischief. A few leeches, the application of intense cold, counter-irritants, and opiate or belladonna plasters or liniments, sometimes afford relief. The internal remedies most likely to do good are steel, quinine, and other tonics. Extreme sensitiveness of the testis, so that it cannot bear the slightest touch—the representative of the irritable uterus and ovaries—is another form of this disorder sometimes met with in nervous hypochondriacal subjects; especially in persons who labour under a diseased condition of the urethra, or ex- cessive spermatic discharges. Tonics and cold applications may be tried, and the cause of the affection should be ascertained, and, if pos- sible, removed. In these cases the patients often desire to be castrated. But the surgeon is not justified in doing so, unless there is positive disease. For a surgeon to remove healthy testicles for epilepsy, or neuralgia, or monomania, is an abominable act, which deserves to be punished according to the Mosaic law, " An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth," IX. Hydrocele signifies a collection of serum in the tunica vaginalis. Symptoms.—It forms a pear-shaped swelling, smooth on its surface, fluctuating if pressed, free from pain and tenderness, causing merely a httle uneasiness by its weight. It commences in the lower part of the scrotum and grows upwards. Occasionally, if large, it is constricted obliquely across the centre by a band of fascia. The epididymis and testicle can sometimes be felt on the posterior surface of the tumour near the bottom. On placing a lighted candle on one side of the scrotum, the light can be discerned through it. Causes.—Hydrocele may be a sequel of inflammation of the testis or of syphilis, but more frequently arises without any local cause. It is often supposed to follow strains of the loins or belly. Diagnosis.—Solid enlargements of the testis may be distinguished from hydrocele by their weight, solidity, and greater painfulness, and by the absence of fluctuation or transparency. The diagnosis from hernia will be found at p. 568. Varieties.—It sometimes happens that the tunica vaginalis preserves its communication with the abdomen, and then becomes filled with * See T. Blizard Curling, op. cit., 2nd edit., 1856.