160 BUENS AND SCALES. It must be recollected that in ordinary campaigning in an enemy's country great difficulty is experienced in treating cases of excision of the lower extremity. The patient has to be shifted perhaps two or three times from one hospital to another (such was the experience of the Crimean campaign), and therefore that most important element, rest, is wanting. Here it is that starched and plaster of Paris bandages do great service.—See Fractures. In injuries of the upper extremity, excision was frequently per- formed during the late Russian war, and was attended with very good success. Out of thirteen cases of primary excision of the elbow-joint, only three died ; and of eight cases of primary excision of the head of the humerus, only one died. The best modes of performing the operations of excision will be seen under the heading " Excision of Joints " in another portion of the book. It may, however, be here mentioned, that, in performing the operation, great aid will be given to the operator by using Mr. Fergusson's lion forceps to seize hold of the articular extremities of the bones before proceeding to saw them. The great use of this forceps was exem- plified in the following case. A private in the 50th regiment in the Crimea was struck by a round shot in the upper third of the thigh, fearfully lacerating all the tissues and comminuting the femur as high as its neck. Amputation of the hip was perform^ed, by Surgeon-Major Trousdell and Mr. Lawson, the head of the femur, which was sepa- rated from the shaft, being with facility turned out of its socket by the aid of this forceps, a proceeding which would have been almost impos- sible without them. In all operations for gun-shot injuries, chloroform will be found a most useful adjunct. It not only deprives the patient of all pain during the search for balls and foreign bodies, which is often a most tedious proceeding, but it serves to quell, to a great degree, the mental anxiety which is generally present. The patients awake refreshed from a sound sleep, free from injurious excitement, and animated with a hope that what has been done tor them will lead to their ultimate recovery. CHAPTER IV. EFFECTS OP HEAT, BURNS, AND SCALDS.* Division.—The most useful division of burns, for practical purposes, is the threefold one which has existed from time immemorial, into, 1st, burns producing mere redness; 2ndly, those causing vesicaiion; 3rdly, those causing death of the part burned. 1. The first class are attended with mere superficial inflammation, terminating in resolution, with or without desquamation of the cuticle. * Sir C. Blagden and Dr. Fordyce found that they could expose themselves to air heated above 212 degrees without injury ; and that they could bear ihe con- tact of heated spirits when cooled down to 130 degrees; of oil at 129 ; water at 123 ; quicksilver at 117. Vide Phil. Trans, vol. Ixv.