DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 881 SECTION VIII. TUMOURS. I. Tumours of the Scalp are most frequently cutaneous cysts, or vascular tumours. (See pp. 108, 227.) II. Tumours of the Bones are apt to be of most ivory-like density. If near the orbit, so as to interfere with the eye, or if very disfiguring, they may be removed. HI. Tumours within the Cranium, that concern the surgeon, are usually fibro-plastic, or soft cancer, arising in the bone or mem- brane, and perforating the skull. Other enlargements, such as aneu- rysms, or hydatids, will produce similar symptoms at first. The earliest symptom is generally intense, long continued, and frequently returning headache. Then there may follow the signs of compi ession, in the form of gradually-increasing-mental imbecility, and palsy of the limbs. Sometimes the patient is cut off with a sudden attack of hemiplegia. But if he survives long enough, the growth makes its way outwardly, perforates the skull, and appears as a soft lobular tumour. Attentive examination may perhaps detect two kinds of pulsation in it; one synchronous with the arterial pulse, the other with the rise and fall of the brain in respiration. The tumour cannot be m.oved laterally ; but in its earlier stages may perhaps be returned into the skull, giving rise, when returned, to symptoms of compression of the brain which subside when it is permitted to protrude again.— See p. 377. The treatment must be palliative; leechings, purgatives, and moderate diet. Any interference with the knife is almost sure to be fatal.* CHAPTER XT. diseases and injuries of the spine. section I.—DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES. I. Lateral Curvature from debility of the bones, ligaments, and muscles, is exceedingly common in this countiy in young females from about the age of ten to sixteen. The first thing that attracts attention is a projection, or, as the vulgar say, a growing out of one scapula, or of one side of the bosom, or an elevation of one shoulder, most commonly the right. On examination, the spine is found to be curved like an italic/, and somewhat twisted on its long axis. The right shoulder and the right side of the chest are unnaturally high and rounded, whilst the opposite is depressed and concave. In the same way the left hip projects, whilst the loins on the right side are curved inwards. Cc(?<s<?s.—This affection is readily caused by occupations or postures that tax one side of the body more than the other ; especially the habit * See Lebert, sur les Mai. Cancereuses, &c.