PAET Y. OF THE OPERATIONS OF SURGERY. CHAPTER 1. OF OPERATIONS IN GENERAL. I. The Apparatus necessary for operations in general comprises bis- touries, scalpels, saws, bone forceps, scissors, or other cutting instruments adapted for specific purposes, dissecting forceps, tenaculum, and Assalini's forceps to take up arteries ; one or two tourniquets to place round the main arteries when considered advisable ; plenty of hempen ligatures, iron and silver wire, hare-lip pins, needles threaded or wired, lint, ad- hesive plaster, and bandages, fine sponge, water both warm and cold, and brandy and hartshorn in case of faintness. There should also be a sufficient number of assistants—^there should be one whose sole business it should be to administer the chloroform, and to watch its effects; others to keep the patient in a proper position, to hand the different instruments to the surgeon, or to assist him in other respects; besides a good light, and a bed or table, with pillows or cushions to make the patient's position as convenient as possible. Mr. Fergusson gives the useful hint that it is desirable to have delicate instruments made to shut in a handle like a pocket clasp-knife, so that they may be kept in the surgeon's waistcoat pocket till they are wanted, and that their edge or point may not be injured through the carelessness of the assistants. Moreover, the operator should himself see that everything is at hand that may be wanted. It would be awkward in the middle of an am- putation to send out for a saw. II. Incisions,—In making incisions there are sev^eral points that demand attention. First of all, the manner of handling the knife, which, as systematic writers say, may be held either like a common dinner knife, or like a pen, or like a fiddlestick. In holding the knife in the first way, which gives the greatest power to the operator, the thumb and middle finger should be placed opposite to each other near the junction of the blade with the shaft; the first finger should be laid on the back of the blade, and the little finger used to elevate or depress the extremity of the handle. The first two positions are those which are employed commonly ; the third is resorted to in cutting into the dif-