352 N^VUS. a sound which differs from that of the common aneurysm, being loud, rough, and whizzing, and which being once heard can never be mis- taken." Diagnosis.—These tumours are distinguished from fatty growths by the signs which have just been described ; and from vascular cancers, by their long continuance without deranging the health. Consequences.—The author has seen many cases of congenital vas- cular tumours waste spontaneously during the first few months or years of life, and give no further trouble. In other instances they increase to a certain size, and then become stationary, or waste, leaving, perhaps, certain cysts containing blood or a reddish serum, as the remains of cells and pouches formed by distended vessels. In other cases, again, they increase rapidly, invade every adjoining tissue; ulcerate or slough at the most prominent parts; and so may destroy life by haemorrhage, or keep it in constant danger. The tumour com- posed of dilated veins is a very different thing from varix, inasmuch as it spreads in a manner showing it to be quite uninfluenced by the weight of the column of blood. In one patient the author has seen a cluster of dilated veins, the size of a walnut, under the skin of the calf of the leg. This has been stationary since birth. In another case of a middle-aged woman, the author has seen this condition begin and extend rapidly from under the heel, up the calf of the leg to the ham. There was a great hypertrophy of skin, and under it, lai'ge clusters of dilated veins. Treatment.—The cure of these diseases may be effected—1, by mea- sures which retard the circulation through the enlarged vessels ; or which cause the blood to coagulate, or which excite the adhesive inflam- mation, and so obliterate or disorganize the distended vessels; or, 2, by extirpation with the ligature or knifis. The formei- class of remedies is best adapted for naevi under the skin, the latter for those which im- plicate the skin itself. Of the former class the best remedy is the seton ; and the best way of using it is to pass several threads with a common sewing-needle, in different directions across the tumour, withdraw them so soon as they have excited suppuration, and then pass others through other parts of the tumour. If a larger needle is used, it should be straight and flat, with sharp edges, and should be made to drag as much silk as it can possibly carry, so as to fill the wound, and prevent hjemorrhage. Some surgeons dip the threads in croton oil, or in a solution of lunar caustic, but this seems unnecessary. On a similar principle the usevus may be punctured with the point of a lancet, and a fine probe which has been dipped in melted nitrate of silver, or a needle heated to a black heat, may be passed through it in various directions, or Mar- shall's galvanic cautery may be employed for this pui-pose ; or its sub- stance may be simply broken up with a cataract-needle. Pressure by means of a smooth surface of ivory or sheet-lead, confined by strips of plaster and a bandage, is a good remedy, if the nsBvus is small and situated over a bone, so that it can be applied uniformly and effec-