296 THE LIGAMENTS. proposed almost simultaneously by Mr. Syme, of Edinburgh, and M. Goyraud, and which avoids the danger of a direct wound into the * joint. The cartilage is to be pushed up as high as possible into one of the synovial pouches by the side of the patella, and a long narrow knife is passed down upon it through the skin two or three inches above, and made to divide the synovial membrane to such an extent that the cartilage may be squeezed through into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, »:{^ but without enlarging the wound in the skin. There the cartilage must remain till the wound in the synovial membrane has had time to heal; and then it may, if desired, be easily removed by an incision through the skin; but if it causes no inconvenience it may be allowed to remain.f r SECTION II.—THE LIGAMENTS. I. Inflammation.—Authors have described a form of inflam- mation of the ligaments of joints characterised by great pain from motions that shake or twist them.| It must be treated like subacute rheumatism. II. Relaxation.—If any joint have been long disused, and espe- cially if its innervation be impaired, its ligaments are liable to become relaxed and elongated, so as even to permit the dislocation of the bones to which they are attached. Thus, in a case related by Mr. Stanley, which followed an attack of hemiplegia, the ligamentum teres and capsular ligament of the hip were so elongated as to permit the head of the femur to slip out of the acetabulum. A similar result may ensue from long-continued chronic synovitis or rheumatism. Me- chanical support, blisters, friction, cold allusion or sea-bathing, and electricity, are the only available remedies,§ Slighter degrees of * Knee-joint opened, patella turned down, synovial membrane studded with melon-shaped gi-owths. St. Mary's Museum. t See B. and F. Med. Review, vol. xi. p. 526, and Fergusson's Practical Surgery, p. 321. I Mayo's Pathology, p. 79. $ See s^ix cases of dislocation from this source, narrated by Mr. Stanley in Med. CMr, Trans, vol. xxiv.