TREATMENT OF CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. 215 stitute the tertiary symptoms. Unluckily the weak, cachectic, and scrofulous are the most prone to suffer the worst forms of syphilis, and they are also the most liable to be injured by any incautious or extreme use of the remedy. Hence our first point is to maintain the highest state of health and strength by general treatment; secondly, to use specific treatment discreetly ; our specifics being mercury, and that other remedy the iodide of potassium, besides a few others of lesser force, as the salts of ammonia and of gold, bromide of potassium and guaiac. 1. The syphilitic patient should be careful to protect his skin from chills, and should theiefore dress warmly. He should live well, avoiding all indigcstibles and things likely to disorder the bowels. His hours should be early. If there be any indication of anajmia, or debility, iron, bark, or quinine, or cod-liver oil should be freely given : with wine or porter. Pain should be allayed by opium, and the air be fresh. 2. Then the object is, if the practitioner determine to give mercury, to induce, gently, mercurial action, and to keep it up lo7ig enough. And there are three modes of effecting this: fumigation, friction, and internal administration. Fumigation is the oldest mode of applying mercurial vapour whether to local disease, primary or secondary, or to impregnate the whole system. For the most part, however, it was a difficult and very uncertain operation, till Mr. Langston Parker* revived and improved it by combining the vapour of water with that of mercury; but the greatest improvement is that effected by Mr. Henry Lee, who has adopted calomel as the preparation to be employed, instead of the sul- phuret or oxide which had been used previously, and which required to be used in very much larger quantity, and could not be depended on from their liability to undergo decomposition. Instead of one or more drachms of oxide or sulphuret, Mr. Lee prescribes ten grains of calomel for each fumigation. Of course rather more or rather less may be used at discretion. If the patient can afford it, he may buy at an instrument maker's an apparatus consisting of a lamp so arranged as to evaporate both the calomel and some water, with an india-rubber cloak to confine the vapour. A poor man must content himself with a heated brick or tile, which may be put into a chamber- pot under a cane-bottomed chair, on which he will sit in puris natu- ralibus, having a blanket round his neck, enveloping the chair and himself, and retaining the vapoui-s. The heat of the lamp or brick should be such as to evaporate the dose of calomel evenly during the ten or fifteen minutes which should be spent in the operation ; not to dissipate it too soon. The fumigation should be repeated every night at bed-time, till wry slight sponginess of the gums is produced, which should be maintained' by regulating the quantity of calomel, till the sore has healed, and hard- * H. Lee, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxix.; Langston Parker, Modern Treat- ment of Syphilitic Disease, Lond. 1854.