DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM. 673 the loins by its weight. After a time it enlarges rapidly and feels soft; large and toi tuous vessels appear under the skin; the cord swells, there are occasional darting pains passing up the the cord into the back, with a heavy dragging sensation iu the gland, the lumbar glands become affected, large tumours form in the iliac fossa, and cachexia and death soon follow in the ordinary course. Treatment.—When the patient first applies, it will be right, if the diagnosis is undecided, to treat the case as if fibro-plastic or syphilitic, by the administration of iodide of potassium. But if the disease is proved to be cancer, and there is as yet no invasion of the lumbar glands, nor mai-ked cachexy, extirpation may afford the patient a few months of life less burdened by pain and disease. XV. Castration is performed thus:—the scrotum being shaved, the surgeon grasps it behind to stretch the skin, and makes an incision into the tunica vaginalis, to examine the testis, if there is any doubt in the diagnosis. If there is none, he extends the cut from the external abdominal ring to the very bottom of the scrotum. If the skin is adherent, or diseased, or if the tumour is very large, two elliptical incisions maybe made,so as to remove a portion of skin between tliem. Then he separates the cord from its attachments, and an assistant holds it firmly between his finger and thumb, to prevent it from retracting when divided. He now passes his bistoury behind the cord, and di- vides it; and seizing the lower portion draws it forward and dis- sects out the testicle. The arteries of the cord, and any others requiring it, are then to be tied; and the wound must not be closed till all the bleeding has ceased, as this operation is often followed by secondary haemorrhage. SECTION III.—DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM, I. (Edema of the Scrotum.—The loose cellular tissue of this part is liable to immense distension from dropsy. Punctures with a sewing-needle will relieve it. If great and tense oedema, from erysipelas or low inflammation, should thi eaten sloughing, a free incision shoukl be made.* The latter ease very much resembles extravasation of urine, but may be distinguished by the absence of swelling in the perinseum, and of obstruction in micturition. II. Cancer Scroti.—This disease is commonly called the Chim- ney-sweeper s Cancer, because it is said to be seldom met with except amongst that class of men, and because the irritation of soot is said to be the cause of it. Some other irritants are believed to have the same effect on the scrotum. Thus, it is stated on the authority of Dr. Paris, that smelters are liable to a similar disease. And on the other hand, it is said that soot may produce this disease on other parts beside the scrotum. The etiology and anatomy of the disease, however, require further investigation. It usually commences as a florid vascular wart, called the soot-icart. * Listen on Acute Oedema of the Scrotum, Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xxii. D 2 X