( 15 ) PAET II. ELEMENTARY PROCESSES OF DISEASE AND REPAIR. CHAPTER I. MALFORMATION, HYPERTEOPHY, ATROPHY, AND DEGENERATION OF TISSUES. I. Congenital Malformation.—In the present part of our work we propose to give a general view of the various changes of form or of structure which may be met with in any part of the body, from any cause interfering with the regular processes of nutrition and function. Amongst these, the earliest in point of time, are the various original malformations, which occur through defects in the germ out of which the foetus is developed. Of such malformations, some depend on an arrest of development, through which various organs, or parts of organs, are left, as it were, incomplete and unfinished. Such are the cases, which come under the surgeon's notice, of spi7ia bifida, or incomplete closure of the arches of the vertebrae ; such are hare-lip and cleft-palate, which arise from a similar condition of the bones and soft part of the face ;— such, too, are epispadias, and hypospadias, or incomplete closure of the receptacle and ducts provided for the urine. From a like want of deve- lopment, though the immediate effect is opposite, arise the conditions of imperforate anus, or vagina. Other cases of congenital deformity are caused by local excess of de- velopment ; such as, for instance, supernumerary toes and fingers. Others, again, arise from defects in the original constitution of the ova ; so that one foetus becomes adherent to another; or even becomes in- cluded within the body of another. Of the causes and prevention of congenital deformities, it is not worth while to speak. Of the treatment of such as are capable of relief by surgical means, mention will be made in Part IV., in the chapter devoted to the organ in which each variety may occur. II. Intra-uterine Disease.—Children are sometimes born with deformities which ought to be distinguished from those mentioned in the preceding paragraph, insomuch as they do not result from any defect in the germinal power of development, but from diseases occur-