DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. 153 by a decrease of mortality from wounded lung to the extent of 19 per cent, after one engagement.* Complications and unfawurahle symptoms.—Suppuration - must always take place along the track of the bullet, and generally sloughing. It may be profuse, and the patient may sink under it. Severe pneu- monia or pleurisy may add to the danger. A very frequent cause of death after these injuries is empyema, or the secretion of pus from the^ entire surface of the pleura. SECTION VII.—GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Gun-shot Wounds of the Abdomen form a very fatal class of injuries. During the Crimean war 235 cases were treated, and of these 55*7 per cent. died. They may be divided into— 1st. Flesh wounds of the walls of the abdomen. 2nd. Injury to the internal organs without lesion of the walls. 3rd. Penetrating wounds, with or without injury to the viscera or large vessels. 1st. Flesh wounds of the walls of the abdomen may be caused by fragments of shell, by which large portions of the integuments and muscles are often torn away, and portions of the intestines sometimes exposed. Bullets and bayonets will frequently traverse the abdominal walls without penetrating. No protracted examination should be made by the surgeon in such cases; but failing to detect the true nature of the wound, he should leave it for time to decide whether the cavity has been opened, or the viscera wounded. 2nd, Injury to internal organs vjithout lesion of the abdominal walls.—Spent round shot or spent fragments of shell may strike the abdomen and inflict severe injury on the parts within, icithout wounding the walls of the abdomen. The liver, kidney, or spleen, or even the intestines, may be thus ruptured. The condition the abdominal muscles are in at the time the blow takes place will often determine the amount of injury. - If they are perfectly relaxed at the time, the damage inflicted on the internal organs is usually severe, as no re- sistance is offered to the violence of the missile ; whereas, if the abdo- minal muscles are rigid, they oppose or deflect the ball, and its impetus is expended in overcoming this opposition. 3rd. Penetrating wounds of the abdomen with or without injury to the viscera or large vessels.—The fatality which follows such injuries is very great. When the ball merely penetrates the wall and passes out of the abdomen without injuring its contents, the chief danger to the patient is from peritonitis. When, however, the viscera have been wounded the severity of the danger will, in a great measure, depend on whether it is one of the solid organs, as the liver, spleen, or kidney, which has been injured, or whether there has been perforation of the stomach or intestines. From the reports of cases, wounds of the liver, * American Medical Times, Oct. 3, 1863.