357 PHLEBITIS. a marked decrease in the tumour; and the patient having been sub- sequently admitted into the King's College Hospital, under the care of Mr. Fergusson, the remaining tumour was successfully treated with the needle and ligature, employed as for the cure of varicose veins,* CHAPTER VIII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF VEINS. SECTION I.—WOUNDS OF VEINS. The hemorrhage from wounded veins is not in general dangerous, unless from some large and deep-seated trunk, in which valves are not present, or from a large varicose vein on the leg, in Avhich the valves are impaired. It may in ordinary cases be restrained by pressure and a raised position. But if there is any difficulty in the matter, it will be necessary either to apply a ligature or to keep up unremitting pressure on the bleeding point with the finger. The latter practice was resorted to " in the case of his Excellency William Prince of Orange, who, in his hurt by the Spanish boy, as my Lord Bacon relates, when the internal jugular was opened, could find no way to stop the flux of blood, till the orifice of the wound was hard compressed by men's thumbs, succeeding for their ease one after the other, for the space of forty-eight hours, when it was hereby stanched."! SECTION II. INFLAMMATION OF VEINS, OR PHLEBITIS. The veins seem to be not particularly susceptible of inflammation; nor does that inflammation, if unaccompanied by the admixture of decomposing fluids with the circulation, seem to be particularly noxious ; on the other hand, decomposing fluids, introduced into the circulation through a wounded vein, will very readily cause death, without any inflammation of the vein by which they entered. Still less without any afiection of the vein spreading towards the heart, as used to be supposed. Hence Pyamia may exist without phlebitis, and phlebitis may exist without it. 1. Veins not prone to inflame,—That the lining membrane of veins * Vide Curling's Fathological Lectures in Med. Gaz., July, I83S ; Lawrence, Med. Chir. Trans, ix. 216; a fatal case of convulsion during the operation for nsvus by injection, Med. Gaz. vol. xxi., p. 529 ; J. Adair Laurie on Cricoid Aneurysm, Med. Gaz., 21st Oct., 1842, The author has also borrowed from a lecture which he heard delivered by Sir. B. Brodie, at St. George's Hospital, in Nov., 1842, as well as from many clinical remarks of Mr. Fergusson's after operations in the King's College Hospital. See also Birkett, Med. Chir. Trans., vol, XXX.; Paget, Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii.; Brainard, Lancet, Aug. 20, 1853; Mr. Adams's case, Lancet, 3rd Sept. IS53; Haynes Walton. Ophthalmic Surgery {On Nceviis vear to Orbit). t Turner, op, cit., vol, i,, p. 346.