308 NEUEALGIA OF JOINTS. another at right angles across the trochanter ; the soft tissues are cleared away l'rom the bone (they consist of little more than skin and cellular tissue, for the thick muscles which cover the part in health are long since wasted), the saw is applied below the trochanter, and the head of the bone with that i)rocess removed. The adjoining cut shows the portion of bone removed by Mr. H. Smith. Any necrosed or carious portion of the acetabulum should be got away if possible. After the operation the limb must be brought into the straight position, and be kept at rest by means of a long splint, and the case be treated on general principles. If everything goes on well, the patient will recover a useful limb with a considerable degree of motion at the hip, and can walk comfortably with a high-heeled shoe.* SECTION VII.—NEURALGIA OF JOINTS. The characters of neuralgic pain, as distinguished from that which accompanies organic disease, have been described under the head of Hysterial Neuralgia (see p. 11); but we introduce this short section in order to remind the young surgeon of the possibility of mistaking hysterical pain for ulceration of a joint. SECTION VIII.—WOUNDS OF JOINTS. Symptoms.—A wound may often, but not invariably, be known to have penetrated a joint, by the escape of synovia, in the form of small oily globules. Treatment.—The object is to avert acute inflammation of the syno- vial membrane, which might prove fatal. If the knee be the part wounded, and there is comminuted fracture of bone or great loss of skin, * Coulson, op. cit.; O'Beirne and Bellingham, on the use of Mercury in early stages, quoted in Ranldng's Abstract, vol. x. p. 290; Fergusson's Surgery, 3rd edit. p. 469; Henry Smith, Essay in Lancet, 1848, vol. i. p. 361; Syme, Lancet, 1849, vol. i. p. 266 (objects to the operation) ; Cotton's case, Med. Gaz., 1849 ; casebySkey, Med. Gaz., Aug. 31, 1850; sequel to Fergusson's case by Smith, Med. Times, Dec 4, 1852; T. Holmes, Lancet, Aug. 27, 1864.