815 APPENDIX OF FORMULiE. Iron with Quinine^ Amongst milder forms are the well-known " Citrate of iron and quinine" of Bullock. The following is convenient and energetic. R. Quin^ disulphatis ^j'; tincturas ferri muriatis f5iiss.; syrupi aurantii f3iv. aqu« fS^'^^' ^^'^ teaspoonful and upwards for a dose, mixed with water. [Farrish.) 19. Griffith's Mixture. R. Myrrhas contrite 3j.; potasses carbonatis jss.; aquae f^vss. ; ferri sulphatis gr. xij.; spiritus myristicge f^ss.; sacchari jiv. First dissolve the sulphate in two ounces of water, and put it into the bottle; then rub the other ingredients smoothly together, and add them. Dose, f^j.—-jss. thrice daily. The original prescription is to he seen in Dr. Moses Griffith's Practical Treatise on Hectic Fevers and Fulmonary Consumption, written at Colchester, 1776. New Ed. Lond. 1795. Dr. Griffith frequently varied the proportion of the in- gredients, and sometimes added tincture of hark, nitre, ^c. 20. Steel with Aloes. B^. Misturse ferri compositse, decocti aloes compositi partes equales. Dosis, f^j. ter die. In chlorosis, constipation with debility, SfC. R. Extracti aloes purificati gr. vj. ; ferri sulphatis gr. xij.; extracti glycyrrhizae gr. xij. Misce et divide in pilulas xij.; quarum sumatur una bis die, ante cibum. 21. Nux Vomica and Strychnia. 9. Tincturse nucis vomicae (Fharm. Brit.) f5j. ; acidi nitromuria- tici diluti f3ij.; tincturae zinziberis f5ij.; syrupi f^iij. ; aquae f^vss.; Misce. Dosis, pars sexta ter die. In any form of functional paralysis after all known causes are remedied. In obstinate debility, diabetes insipidus, alkaline urine, ^c. Nux vomica is the pleasantest hitter possible, and may be given alone or combined with acids, other tonics, or purgatives. Torpidity of the nervous system is the condition in which it is assumed to be useful. The writer assumes gr. -J^ of strychnia equal to \ gr. of ext. nucis vomiccB. R. Extracti nucis vomicae gr. ij.; mannae 3j« Misce et divide in pilulas viij. ; quarum sumatur una ter die. The extract, such as is prepared by Squire, is quite as efficacious a medicine as strychnia itself, and very much safer. Any mistake in dispensing strychnia might be fatal. The dose may be increased by degrees. If strychnine be preferred, use the Liquor StrychniaB Fharm.. Brit., of which Tlftx.^gi-. jL of the alkaloid. Fhosphoric Acid and Strychnia. R. Acidi phosphorici diluti fjiij.; tinctura) nucis vomicae f3ij.; syrupi zinziberis t'Svij. Misce. Dose, one teaspoonful thrice a day in a