75 VARICOSE ULCER. answer the purpose of an ulcer in an inconvenient one : and, therefore, that with these safeguards ulcers on the legs may always be healed,—• if possible. VI. Fistula, or Sinus, consists of a narrow channel lined by a pale pseudo-mucous membrane, which may or may not lead to a suppurat- ing cavity. In old cases the parietes of the tube are often dense and semi-cartilaginous. Causes.—Fistulas are produced when abscesses are not thoroughly healed from the bottom ; when there has been a defect in the bandag- ing or in providing proper outlets for the discharge ; or when thei'e is some standing cause of irritation, as a ligature, or a piece of dead bone, which keeps up a discharge of pus. Treatment.—The first indication is to remove any source of irritation that may happen to exist, and diseased bone should alwaj'^s be looked for. The second, to prevent the lodgment of matter; for which pur- pose it may perhaps be necessary to make another opening. The third indication is to pi'oduce, by stimulating injections, especially the strong caustic lotion, the destruction of the pseudo-mucous lining, and to cause the exudation of plastic matter, so as to fill np the fistula. At the same time the sides of it should be kept constantly pressed together with compress and bandage. If these means fail, the fistula should be slit up with a bistoury; and then a thin piece of lint be introduced in order to prevent premature union of the cut edges, and make it heal from the bottom. If there have been a succession of small unhealthy abscesses in a part, or if ulceration have spread irregularly in the cellular tissue, so as to leave the skin ragged and extensively undermined with tortuous sinuses, it may be advisable to destroy the whole of the parts so diseased by the potassa fusa; and this will stimulate the neighbouring sound parts, so that when the slough separates, a healthy surface will be left, which may be healed by the ordinary means.* VII. The Varicose Ulcer occurs in consequence of a varicose state of the veins of the lower extremity. This greatly impedes the return of blood, and, by producing habitual venous congestion, weakens the parts, and renders them prone to ulceration. The uU-.ers are usually three or four in number, situated above the ankle. They are oval in shape, indolent in their progress, and neither extensive nor deep ; but they are attended with considerable pain, which is of a deep-seated, aching character. The Treatment must be directed principally to the veins; and for this we must refer to the chapter on that subject. We will merely observe here, that the applications to the ulcers must be suited to their condition, whether irritable or indolent; and that great relief to the pain is sometimes obtained by opening one of the enlarged vessels, and abstracting a moderate quantity of blood. The advantages of proper support by bandages or laced stockings, or by encasing the limb in strapping from the foot upwards, need scarcely to be noticed. Some- * Listen, Elements of Surgery.