725 EXTIRPATION OF TUMOUES. sibility, delirium, and muscular rigidity ; during which it is asserted that the patient is completely under the control of the operator ; his bodily sensations, his actions, and his very thoughts being exactly those which the mesmerizer may will his passive victim to expei-ience. We do not mention certain other alleged phenomena, such as the power of seeing without eyes, of prophesying, &c. &c., which do not concern us. On the other hand, there is the admission, 4thly, that mesmerism is only one of six powers, each capable of producing the same effects on mind and body ; the other five being—religious fanaticism—exhaustion of the brain by long contemplation—exhaustion of any one organ of sense—narcotic medicines—and last, not least, hysteria. Where so many known causes exist to explain the phenomena of mesmerism, it seems unnecessary, to say the least, to go out of our way to imagine a transmission of nervous power. It is confessed further by Dr. Esdaile, 5thly, that all the mesmeric phenomena, like the hysteric, if once in- duced, may occur in paroxysms, without any mesmeric passes, when- ever willed by the patient, especially if the nervous centres have been rendered morbidly sensitive by the mesmeric process. If these things be properly weighed, and if the reader consider far- ther that the mesmeric state (or in plain English hysterical catalepsy), is one which cannot be induced in persons of sound vigorous mind ; that, if free from all objection, it could seldom be available at the time and place requisite ; and that it is confessed that a person susceptible of it is, to use Dr. Esdaile's words, " at the mercy of any foolish or unprincipled person,"—he will agree with the writer, that it has no claim to be re- ceived into the rank of therapeutical agents. " It is often," says Dr. Esdaile, " very difficult and laborious to excite the mesmeric action in the constitution ; but being once felt, a very slight recurrence to the ori- ginal process will often bring on the mesmeric paroxysm ; and if the ex- citement of the nervous system is kept up by frequent mesmerizing, an independent diseased action is set up in the constitution, we have, in fact, inoculated the system with a nervous disease, acting spontaneously, and obeying natural laws we do not understand."* CHAPTER III. THE MINOR OPERATIONS. I. Extirpation op Tumours.—A different proceeding is to be adopted in the case of cancer and of other growths. In the former it may be necessary to remove a portion of skin by two semi-elliptical incisions, if it appear to be contaminated by the diseased growth. But in extirpating wens or fatty or fibrous tumours, however large, it is a general rule not to remove any of the skin, unless it is much inflamed or ulcerated, or so entirely adherent to the tumour that its separation * Esdaile on Natural and Mesmeric Clairvoyance, Lond. 1852, p. 235; Intro- duction of Mesmerism into the Hospitals of India, 1852, p. 42; Brierre de Boismont on Hallucinations, by Hulme, p. 216.