284 FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. The conditions under which this failure of union occurs are shown in the diagram. In the first place, wide separation of the fragments renders union very unlikely. But, in addition, at B and c is shown the tendency which the fragments have to become everted. Then if the fascia folds over, and adheres to one of the frac- tured surfaces, as at C, or to both, as at B, union becomes physically impossible; and the fascia, somewhat thickened, is the only, and a very in- adequate bond of union. When the bone is broken by muscular action the ligamentous in- vestments of the joints connected with it are always more extensively lacerated than by a direct blow. In the treatment there are three indications. First, to place the patient in such a position that the muscles which tend to draw the frag- ments asunder may be relaxed. For this pur- pose, the patient's trunk should be somewhat raised in a half-sitting position, and the injured limb, with a well-padded long straight splint behind it, should be extended and raised at the heel. Extension of the leg relaxes the vasti and crureus, and flexion on the trunk relaxes the rectus femoris. Secondly, to bring the fractured surfaces into as close apposition as possible. In some cases, in which the ligamentous fibres passing over and by the side of the patella are not extensively torn, there is so little separation, that no apparatus is required. In others, the surgeon places a simple pad, or strap, or bandage above the upper, and another beneath the lower fragment, and draws them together by longitudinal straps passing between. The same end may perhaps be gained by a figure-of-8 bandage. A leather strap may be fastened round the limb, just above the patella, and a tape passing from each side of this may be fastened to a slipper on the foot. Or an attempt may be made with a starched bandage, applied from the foot to the middle of the thigh, and pressing above, but not upon the patella. A very comfortable apparatus is Wood's splint for fractured patella. This is a straight light iron splint, provided with two moveable hooks behind the knee. Over these the folds of a figare-of-8 bandage may be passed, including in each opposite loop the broken fragments respectively, or a ring of vulcanized india-rubber may be used instead of the bandage at the knee. (See p. 285.) But in all such appai-atus there are two difficulties: that they are liable to cause the fractured surfaces to be tilted up, as in diagram B ; * See Mr. W. Adams's paper in Pathological Transactions, vol. il. p. 254. The author has to express his obligations to Mr. Adams for allowing him to consult some valuable MSS., including a letter from M. Malgaigue.