268 FEACTUEES OF THE FOEEARM. Treatment.—The fore and upper arm should be bandaged, and a piece of pasteboard, gummed sheeting, or leather softened in water, should be cut to a right angle, like the letter L, so as to fit the elbow when bent, and should be applied on the inner and outer sides, and be retained by another bandage ;t or an L-shaped splint, well padded and covered with oil or gutta-percha sliin, be placed in front of the joint, and secured with broad straps of adhesive plaster above and below. This will allow fomentations and leeches to be applied behind to the joint, and being padded high in fiont of the lower fragment, gives a good fulcrum and power of extension. This splint may be made of perforated zinc, and provided with a male and female screw in front, and with a hinge at the elbow, so that passive motion may be applied in frac- tures near or into the joint, VI. Fractures of the Forearm.—Fracture of the olecranon may be caused by direct force, or by violent action of the triceps muscle. Symptoms.—The patient easily bends his limb, but has great pain and inability in straightening it. A hollow is telt at the back of the joint, because the broken part is drawn from half an inch to two inches up the arm; but sometimes, when the ligaments are not torn through, this displacement may be very trifling, or altogether absent. Treatment.—The patient may be allowed to move the part gently in three weeks. Union will be liga- mentous, unless the parts are in the closest apposition. The French surgeons treat this injury by a flexed posi- tion of the arm with a view to the possible occurrence of anchylosis. A perfectly straight position is apt to tilt backward the upper end of the olecranon against the fossa of the humerus. The best way of treating it is to use a straight splint, and to pad it thickly opposite the joint, so as to give a slight bend, and to secure it by broad sti-aps of adhesive plaster. If there is much inflammation, it must be subdued by rest and leeches before any tight apparatus is put on. M. Malgaigne's hooks, p. 285, have been applied, in order to insure apposition. ' Compound fracture of the olecranon is far trom an uncommon con- sequence of violent blows or falls on the elbow ; audit is often followed by protracted disease of the joint. The part must be bathed and fomented; any loose fragments of bone be extracted; the wound be closed with bloody lint, or collodion, if the skin can be neatly brought * Line of fracture of the internal condyle. ^ . . •{• A very convenient angular splmt is made by Matthews, and other instru- ment makers capable of being adapted to various lengths and positions of limb, and useful in most cases of fracture of tbe arm or forearm.