Xll PREFACE. irritated by some other cause of disease. My readers will find a short account of this doctrine, as also a glance at that other doctrine, which is slowly acquiring consistency, of the influence of the nerves in directing or diverting currents of blood from any given organ. Few parts of the " principles of medicine " show greater ad- vance than the doctrine of Tumours. Before the microscopic era these were a hopeless puzzle. And even when they were first explored with the aid of this instrument, very inadequate ideas prevailed of the nature of the cancerous group, because these were studied too much by themselves, and the elements found in them were assumed to be peculiar to cancers and distinctive of them, without sufficient study of their relations to the cell elements found in other tissues, healthy or diseased. At present, whilst I still maintain the necessity of a classifica- tion based on the anatomical elements of tumours, as revealed by the microscope, it seems impossible to deny, that the cancers form but one part of a series, of w^hich common in- flammatory exudation or cell-growth, chronic inflammation, thickening and induration (the ancient scirrhus), cachectic or ca- coplastic inflammation, as erysipelas and carbuncle, scrofulous exudation, the fibro-cellular, fibro-plastic, fibro-nucleated, and fibroid tumours, together with the "exudations " of rheumatism, gout, syphilis, and elephantiasis, are all closely-related members. As I have pointed out, there is no tumour whatever which may not have ten at least of the fifteen signs of malignancy.'* A real advance will be made when the childish words malignant" and " recurrent" shall be banished, and when all tumours of the kinds I have just enumerated shall be ac- knowledged to be individual members of one group. Then we shall take up again the classification which was found in all surgical books, from the time of Galen, that greatest of phy- sicians, to that of Hunter. All tumours, exudations, or cell- growths will be treated as members of one family ; and in- flammation (that is, the calor, rubor, tumor, and dolor) will be shown to be accidental characters of one kind of tumour. Scrofula has its place in the group of maladies with cell- growth or exudation; and here I believe 1 have done some service to the student by my exposition of the question. What is tubercle? I have shown that what is commonly known as yellow tubercle is merely an eflete and decayed residue of some pre-existing exudation. I need scarcely say that any attempt to deduce a system of therapeutics from a