36 THEORY OF INFLAMMATION. is apt to leave particles of lithate of soda behind in the synovial mem- brane, and in the areolar tissue around. If a consequence of gonorrhoea, there is abundant effusion, and great swelling, very difficult to get rid of. Sthenic inflammation is generally cirmmscribcd, and most intense at one central point. Asthenic inflammation, especially from poisons, is often diffused, i. e. wide-spread, with no efficient boundary to the softened exudations. There are yet some other classifications of inflammation with which the student ought to be familiar ; for example : Acute inflammation is that which runs through its course quickly; subacute is a mitigated acute inflammation; chronic is less violent, and tends to last in- definitely. We read also of oedematous, adhesive, htemorrhagic, ulcerative, and gangrenous inflammation, according as the disease tends to produce either of those efiects respectively. Zastli/, in the pathology of thirty years ago, it was customary to suppose that the etiects of inflammation depend on the part affected; thus we heard of mucous, serous, and fibrous inflammation ; and much was made of an alleged final cause, in the fact that mucous membranes generally sup})!irate if inflamed, and that serous membranes generally adhere by lymph. This is true ; but it is not true that the exudation of lymph from mucous surfaces is impossible or rare, although the rapid production of fresh layers of epithelium or pus tends to cast it off and prevent it from becoming organised; and thus the obstruction of mucous canals is prevented. SECTION VII.—THEORY OF INFLAMMATION. I'hysicians have in all ages wished for such an intelligible conception of the process as would enable them to connect it with the other classes of facts of which they have scientific knowledge. But it is quite certain that we can have no clear conception of disease till we understand health ; and that all the theories of inflammation that have been framed are preconceptions in the mind of the theorizer, who merely applies to the phenomena such philosophy as he may chance to have. Whatever notions about science in general, or physiology in particular, occupy the mind at any given time, are sure to be applied to the explanation of inflammation. Thus in the time of the ancients, when the arteries were believed to hold air, it passed for a decent theory of inflammation to assume that blood had found its way into them, as Celsus narrates. In the earlier humoral pathology, ill- humours of various sorts were supposed to fall upon the organs affected. The words defluxion, gout, and catarrh, are relics of this theory. Mathematical physicians of the school of Mead supposed the vessels obstructed by aberrant particles whose size and shape would not allow them to pass. Hunter and his school spoke of inflammation as excited action of blood-vessels. The earliest microscopists of the