ACUTE ABSCESS. 53 tive cell formations; smaller than pus globules, less regular, and not giving the characteilstic reaction with acetic acid. Softening is degeneration and liquefaction of the affected tissue, and of any fibrinous exudation with which it may have been infil- trated, although without the presence of true pus. It is a condition met with in the brain, either from disease of the arteries, or from a low degree of inflammation. Amongst the products of decayed exuda- tions are the bodies known as compound granular cells. They were formerly called exudation corpuscles, because they were found in inflammatory exudations; but * they are by no means peculiar ^ ^ m to these-; on the contrary, M w "^^4 (M' they seem to be formed by a ^^Mi #^1 #K if process of fatty degeneration of almost every primary cell, and thus may be found in any cell-growth, healthy or morbid. For instance, they may be found in the colostrum or milk first secreted after parturition; in the decidua; and in enchondromatous, fibro- plastic, cancerous, and almost every other morbid growth. They are unaltered by water and acetic acid; potass dissolves the cell-wall, and sets free the granules.f In some cases these bodies consist merely of an aggregation of fatty molecules. SECTION II.—ACUTE ABSCESS. Symptoms.—Acute abscess (which, when occurring in the subcuta- neous cellular tissue is called phlegmon,) commences with the ordinary signs of acute inflammation—namely, inflammatory fever; sevei'e throbbing pain; bright redness ; and much swelling ;—firm in the centre, and cedematous around. The occurrence of suppuration is in- dicated by an abatement of the fever, and a change in the pain,—which is less acute, and converted into a sense of weight and tension. Then the tumour becomes softer, and loses its bright arterial colour; and as the quantity of pus increases, its centre begins to point, that is, to project in a pyramidal form, and fluctuation can be felt by alternate pressure with the fingers. After this, the parts between the abscess and the surface become successively softened and disintegrated. The tumour becomes more and more prominent; the centre exhibits a dusky-red or bluish tint, the cutis ulcerates, the cuticle bursts, and the pus escapes. Deep Suppuration.—But where pus is formed under fasciae, or deep in the mamma, or pelvis, and cannot quickly make its way to the sur- face, the pain is not reliev^ed but often much aggravated by the increase * 1, shows a cell from a fibro-plastic tumour; 2, from cancer; 3, from an ovarian cyst, and from the decidua—all loaded with oil-globules: traced by the author from actual specimens, by the camera. t Hughes Bennett on Cancer, &;c., p. 153.