APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 848 ^. Ammonise nitratis 353. ; aquse f^vss.; syrupi aurantii f3iv. Misce. Sumat cochlearia duo arnpla ter die. J)r. Egan. In rheu- matism and secondary syphilis. 198. Solution of Sulphate of Atropia. ^i. Atropiae sulphatis gr. ss.; aquae destillatse f^. Misce, fiat solutio. Except, in cases of cataract, Mr. Walton uses a weak solution like this. A stronger solution acts more quickly ; but the dilatation remains too long; and patients complain that the adjusting power of the sound eye is interfered with. 199. To make a Metallic Amalgam or Cement, to fill Decayed Teeth. Rub together in a mortar some silver, reduced to a fine powder by filing or by precipitation, with a few globules of mercury. When well mixed into a paste, knead it well with the fingers, and squeeze out any superfluous mercury. Then the cavity of the tooth having been properly scraped out and dried, fill it with the amalgam, making the surface of the metal smooth and even with that of the tooth. The patient must be desired not to use the teeth for some hours, till the amalgam has become hard. 200. Pills of Chian Turpentine. This substance may be made into pills each five grains in weight; which may be sent out in a phial of water, to prevent them from sticking together.—{C. R. Walsh.) In cystirrhwa, ^c. 201. Phosphate of Lime. This may be prepared by boiling about four ounces of ivory dust in water for ten minutes. This water should be strained olf and thrown away, to get rid of impurities. Then more water should be added, in which the dust should be stewed, till the jelly is extracted, and itself is soft enough to crunch between the teeth. Lemon-juice, wine, sugar, or other flavouring ingredients may be added; and the softened ivory dust be eaten with the jelly. Or, any quantity of ivory dust or bones may be calcined white, and diluted liydrochloric acid be saturated with it. The dissolved earth should be precipitated by ammonia, and washed; and dilute hydro- chloric acid be again saturated with it. This dose is from ten to thirty minims, in sugared water. This is prepared under the writer's direc- tions by Mr. Jolley, of Curzon Street, and Mr. Bullock, of Hanover Street, Hanover Square. Mr. Bullock tells the writer that he has known a patient take two_ fluid ounces daily of the dilute muriatic acid of the P. L. containing half an ounce of bone phosphate in solution.