460 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OP THE EAR. are discharged, and the whole middle ear disorganized; caries of the bone and abscess may follow. The causes of the less severe varieties of otitis are the same as those of the acute, but of less intensity ;—exposure to cold ; injudicious bathing ; heated and unhealthy rooms ; the weak and unhealthy states of the system left by fever, or the exanthemata; the scrofulous dia- thesis, especially if food, clothing, and fresh air be deficient; and the gouty and rheumatic diatheses. Sj/mptoms.—These, unfortunately, are often so slight, that the patient gives no heed to them, till in process of time he finds himself altogether deaf in one or both ears, A slight woolly sensation, or oc- casional noises or ringing, with variable obtuseness of hearing, and slight aching, are most frequent. Treatment.—The general indications are to improve the health ; to relieve local inflammation by leeches—applied repeatedly, so long as they give relief to pain, noise, and headache—and by counter-irri- tants, such as small blisters, applied in succession over the mastoid bone, or to the nape of the neck. The feet should be kept warm, and the skin be cleansed by warm baths. Any diseased state of the exter- nal meatus should be remedied by the measures spoken of in the pre- ceding section. Iodide of potassium and mercury are the most effica- cious remedies for removing the consequences of protracted otitis. The latter should be given in small doses, long-continued, such as one grain of the hyd. c. creta, night and morning ; or the bichloride, which is spoken of in high terms by Toynbee and Wilde. It may be given alone, or with the tincture of bark, or of steel, F. 87. There are some forms of otitis, connected with peculiar diatheses which require notice; and especially, first, the rheumatic, which has been much studied by Mr. Harvey. This may be acute, and may be accompanied with general rheumatism, and may require the treatment already prescribed for acute otitis; or may be subacute or chronic. Loud noises in the ear, deafness, rheumatic or neuralgic pains about the head or face or other parts, generally becoming worse at night, and tenderness or stiffness of the scalp or neck, are the common symptoms : leeching, and colc^hicum given in regular small doses, with or without mercury, are the remedies recommended for the moi'e acute cases ; the iodide of potassium, guaiacum (which is strongly recom- mended by Harvey), with bark or sarsaparilla, for the more clu'onic. Otitis may also be connected with gout,'—for the treatment of which, the remarks on modified inflammation, may be consulted;— or with scrofula, or with mere debility and cachexia, in which case cod-liver oil and bark, or steel, will be of great use ; or with secondary syphilis, for which the iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla, or corrosive sublimate, are the most appropriate remedies. A very insidious form of inflammation within the tympanum is apt to exist quite unsuspected in children ; especially those that are of strumous or otherwise weakly habit. The tympanum in these cases is filled, and even distended with purulent mucus, which finds no exit, owing to obstruction of the Eustachian tube. Death sometimes ensues from