APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 849 202. The Eye Douche. The application of a continuous stream of cold or tepid water to the eyelids and adjacent parts is a favourite remedy with most oculists in cases of chronic, congestive, or weak diseases of that organ. There are many contrivances which may serve this purpose, such as the elastic syringe which we have recommended in diseases of the ear; tubes of gutta percha or vulcanized caoutchouc, leading from a small cistern placed at the proper height, and the eye douches of Savory and Moore, Matthews, &c. 203. Disinfectants. These are of three sorts: 1. Substances that hinder decomposition and preserve any given compound in statu quo; 2. Substances that hasten or complete oxydation, and reduce the decomposing body to a harmless state; 3. Such as absorb or neutralize gaseous emanations. Each has its uses. To the first class belong creosote, carbolic acid ; half a drachm of either of which, with an ounce of glycerat of starch, will make a good ointment for a gangrenous wound; also F. 117, 127. To the second class belong Condy's excellent Disinfecting Fluid, the permanganate of potass, and the chloride of lime, and of soda; which last is much less unpleasant than the chloride of lime. Also solution of chlorine (liquor chlori of the P. B.). Under the third head come bags of charcoal, lotions of nitrate of lead, F. ll(?,glycerate of bismuth, p, 838, together with fumigation of chlorine,nitrous acid, and of iodine. Iodine is the cheapest and most generally useful. A few grains may be put into pill boxes with perforated lids, which should be jjlaced in difierent parts of the ward, as recommended by Dr. B. W. Richardson ; or a cheap tincture of | oz. iodine to Oss. of methylated spirit may be used. F'umigations also of vinegar, pastiles, cascarilla bark, &c., have their uses, as they evolve tarry matters, which pui'ify tiie air, A very pure carbolic acid is made byMr. Rew, chemist, of 282, Regent Street. 204. Chlorate of Potass. This salt has been recommended on the ground of its containing six equivalents of oxygen, which it was supposed to part with in the blood and be converted into chloride. This hypothesis is quite unproved and very improbable; still the fact remains, as first propounded by Mr. Hunt, that it forms a useful local and general remedy in cachectic ulcers of the mouth and throat. It may be used as a lotion in the proportion of one drachm to an ounce of glycerine and three ounces of water. It may also be made into lozenges or tablets {Parrish). As an intei-nal remedy the dose is 10 to 30 grains in solution. Or a mixture may be made of two drachms chlorate of potass, half a drachm dilute hydro- chloric acid, three of syrup, and six ounces of water. Dose, a sixth part every four hours. In low putrid soi^e throat, and analogous diseases. D 3 I