102 PAINFUL SUBCUTANEOUS TUMOUR. sometimes they follow an injury; but even then the reason why is quite unknown. Of the degenerations this tumour is subject to, the commonest is calcification, that is, infiltration with earthy salts, by which parts of it are converted into a stony mass. Cysts also, filled with se- rous fluid, may form in the interstices. Such a tumour may inflame, soften, suppurate, and slough out entirely or by degrees; or may adhere to the skin over it, and cause it to ulcerate by distension, and may slough, or may throw out livid bleeding fungous protrusions. Extirpation is the only treatment; after which the patient may be comforted with the probability that there will be no return of the dis- ease in the same place, or elsewhere. Yet, as we have before said, cases occasionally happen in which a fibrous tumour has returned again and again, after apparently thorough extirpation, and has been excised five or more times, till at last a per- manent cure has been obtained. In any such case of recuri-ence, early and free extirpation should be resorted to; and the iodide of potassium be administered. In other rare cases a fibrous tumour, after repeated extirpation, has been succeeded by a cancerous growth ; whilst in other still rarer cases, not only does the fibrous tumour return in situ, after excision, but invades the lungs or other internal organs, II. The Painful Subcutaneous Tumour, of Wood, is a small body, rarely larger than a pea or coffee-berry, composed of fibrous tis- sue, situated under the skin, generally single, generally affecting women, subject to fits of most excruciating neuralgic pain, and often the cause of hysteric and other spasmodic at?'ections. Hitherto, anatomists have failed to detect, on dissection, any connection between these tumours and the nerves; so that a distinction must be drawn be- tween them and the neuromatous tumoui-s, which are generally multiple, affect men rather than women, and consist of small fibrous tumours embedded in the sheaths of nerves. Extirpation is the remedy.* III. The FiBRO-CELLULAR TuMOUR is composed of the common areolar tissue of the body. On a section it displays bands of firm white fibrous tissue, intersecting a softer, yellow, gelatinous-looking sub- stance, infiltrated with serum. Microscopically, the characters are those of fibrous and filamentous tissue, in a more or less complete state of development. The most frequent seats of this tumour are those in which the fatty tissue is not found : as " the scrotum, or labium, or the tissues by the side of the vagina, the deep-seated intermuscular spaces in the thigh, and the scalp." But the same tissue likewise con- stitutes, says Mr. Paget: "1st. Nearly all the softer kinds of polypi, such as the mucous or gelatinous polypi of the nose; and the polypi of the external auditory meatus. 2nd. The various cutaneous out- growths, such as occur in the scrotum, labia, nymphse, clitoris, and more rarely in other parts; and, as hardly to be defined away fr-om * See the paper by Mr. Wood, who first accurately described and named this tumour, in Edinburgh Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii.; Lond. Med. Gaz, vol. vi. p. 59; Paget's Lectures; Wedl. op. cit. p. 400.