531 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Thirdly, the wound should then be accurately closed with sutures or lint and plaster, and the patient should be suffered to lie as quietly as possible. He should have plenty of cool air, and a very light cover- ing. The rule is generally given, in all injuries of the thorax and abdomen, to place him on the wounded side ; but he must decide for himself what position is the-most comfortable. The closing of the wound is a great relief to dyspnoea. It is warmly advocated by the American surgeons. Fourthly, inflammation must be combated; and all modern ex- perience shows that this is best done by gentle treatment;—opium ; aperients ; ice; cool drinks and quiet;—veneesection rarely need be per- formed. The diet must be proportioned to the patient's condition : beef-tea, meat and port wine in one case; iced lemonade, barley- water, or milk and water in another. But, as Mr. Lawson observes, the inflammation which follows an injury is a totally different thing from idiopathic pneumonia.* Fifthly, if there should be evidence that the side of the chest has become tilled, and the lung compressed, by air, by extravasated blood, or by inflammatory effusion, serous or purulent, either tlie wound m\ist be opened, or another incision should be made into the pleural cavity lower down. Secondary hcemorrhage, after wounds of the lung, may, 1, be caused by inflam,matory excitement ; or, 2 (if the wound be gunshot), by the sepai'ation of sloughs from the lung ; or, 3, by the sloughing of an intercostal artery that may have been brushed by the ball. Venaj- section is the remedy for the tirst case, and the ligature, pressui'e, or styptics, such as gallic acid internally, for the latter two. Foreign bodies in the chest add greatly to the danger of exhausting suppuration, although patients have recovered for years with balls, or pieces of cloth, encysted in the lung or pleural (;avity. ]n some cases, a ball has remained rolling loosely about in the pleural cavity. If any foreign body is detected, it should, if possible, be removed, and part of the upper border of a rib may be sawn away with Hey's saw, if necessary, in order to get at it. X. Abscess behind the sternum, and caries of that bone, sometimes require a perforation to be made in it with a trephine.t XI. Wounds of the Heart generally prove fatal from hemor- rhage. Numerous instances, however, are on record, in which stabs or musket-wounds of this organ, have healed, both in man and animals, without any ill effects remaining. The diagnosis and prognosis will of course be extremely doubtful. The only available remedy is opium, in order to prevent haemorrhage and keep the circulation as quiet as pos- * See ChisholnVs Military Surgery for the Confederate Army, 3rd edit., Columbia, 1864. Also Papers by Hamilton and others, Am. Med. Times, 1863 and 1864. t For cases, references, &c., see G. Borlase Childs, Lancet, 24th Aug, 1850 Cassar Hawkins, Med. Gaz. N.S., vol. v., p. 62.