SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 92 to be the sign of scrofula, ])ar excellence. The question then arises what is tubercle? 1. Yellow tubercle.—The question seems easy at first sight. When- ever a dull yellowish cheesy substance is found embedded in any tissue, it is usually called tubercle. But if examined under the microscope, this yellow matter is found to consist of amorphous granules, and fragments and oil globules—showing pretty clearly that it is a something in a state of decay and degeneration. Further research shows that any form of morbid growth may decay, and be converted into a yellow-tubercular-looking, or putty-like mass, in which the atrophied elements of the tumour are combined with oil- globules and cholesterine. It is necessary to go back, therefore, and to ask what are the sub- stances whose degradation gives rise to the cheesy stuff, commonly called tubercular? And the answer is, that any lymph exudation, or plastic rell growth, or low inflammatory product may undergo that change, and be the first stage of cheesy tubercle. 2. il/<7/((/•// tubercles in the luwjs.—Tlie lungs at their upper part may be studded with little grayish, semi-transparent, millet-seed-like bodies, from the size of a pin's head to that of a small pea. There seems no doubt that these consist of air cells, or clusters of them, blocked up by growth of epithelium ; and that as the disease incieases, these increase and ninltijily, occupy more tissue, and soften into the yellow cheesy state. o. Tiiberculdr in jilt ration.—The result of a Idw form of inflamma- tory action, in which the changes of the epithelium in the air cells, concur with cell changes and exudation into the intervening tissue, which also degenerates. Whoever would see this to perfection, should examine the lung of an ox which has passed into the second stage of pleuro-pneumonia. 4. 'Tuberculosis of lymphatic glands.—This may begin as inflamma- tion, acute or chronic, no matter by what cause provoked, or as mere chronic hyperti-ophy. In either case the abundant cell elements may undergo necrosis and cheesy transformation. 5. In the areolar tissue tubercular deposit so called, generally consists of a small lump of unhealthy lymph ; perhaps a small de- colourized clot of blood; perhaps it may be merely inspissated pus. So also in bone, in the dura mater, in the glands of the intestines, any sub-inflammatory cell-growth, or plastic exudation, or growth of epithelium, may be the starting-point, and may constitute the material which forms the yellow cheesy tubercle. From the foregoing, we may define tubei'cle to be an abortive quasi-inflammatory cell-growth, incapable of development—and soon de- generating ; and we may say that an accurate distinction between tubercle, and some forms of inflammatory cell-growth and pus, and some fibro-plastic growths in a state of degeneration, is impossible. It is easy to believe that a low state of general health is accom- panied with a tendency to active growth of some structures. This is seen in the acne which infests the skin of strumous young persons,