462 PEEFORATION OF THE MEMBRANA TYMPANI. V. Inflammation of the Dura Mater, with effusion of green- ish-yellow fibrine ; abscess within the brain ; plugging of the sinuses or jugular vein with dirty-looking fibrine, from the entrance of fetid secretion into them ; and general pyat;mia, may be consequences of ear disease, just as they may of fracture of the skull, p. 378, and the observations we have made on the insidious approach of mischief within the head in the one set of cases apply equally to the other. VI. Earache—(otalgia). This term ought to be restricted to signify neuralgia of the ear. Genuine neuralgia of the ear,—occur- ring in fits of excruciating pain, shooting over the head and face— may be distinguished from otitis by the sudden intensity of the pain— which is not throbbing,—does not increase in severity,—is not attended with fever,—and comes and goes capriciously. Its causes are the same as those of neuralgia generally, but particularly caries of the teeth; and its treatment principally consists in removing carious teeth, or stopping them, and giving purgatives, followed by quinine and after- wards iron. The tincture of aconite may be painted behind the auricle. The affection is by no means common. We cannot too strongly impress on the surgeon that what is popularly called earache is an inflammatory pain, to be treated by leeches, fomentations, and purgatives. VII. Perforation of the Membrana Tympani may be the con- sequence of laceration by violence. As we have before said, this very often accompanies fracture of the petrous bone ; but it may be caused also by blows on the head, boxes, as they are called, on the ear; by violent blowing of the nose, by which means a current of air is forcibly injected through the Eustachian tube; by forcibly syringing, which, as Mr. Toynbee observes, may easily rupture a thinned and dry mem- brane ; by descent in the diving-bell; by the introduction of foreign substances; and lastly, by loud noises, especially the discharge of cannon. Sense of shock in the ear, bleeding and deafness, are the immediate symptoms. If inflammation comes on, it must be met by the measures detailed above ; and if deafness continue, as a result of the aperture, it must be treated as we shall show presently. 2. Perforation is far more commonly the result of acute otitis^ and sup- puration within the tympanum. 3. It may also result fi-om chronic inflammation and ulceration. The symptoms which indicate an aperture in the membrane are, that perhaps the patient blows through the ear in blowing his nose forcibly; or that he can taste, or perceive in his throat, substances applied within the meatus. On examination with the speculum the aperture may generally be seen; or if the patient inflate the tym - panum, in the manner to be presently described, air-bubbles and mucus may be seen to issue from it. The consequences of perforation, if so small that it is capable of being closed by a film of the natural moisture of the parts, may be very slight. But a large opening generally causes considei'able deafness. Treatment.—Any diseased condition should be treated as already directed; and the nitrate of silver may be applied by means