DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 588 This patient complained of pain in the left shoulder, and below the heart, and dyspnoea. Mr. Guthrie had predicted, in his Commentaries,* the possibility of hernia through the diaphragm, after a gunshot wound, and had de- scribed the operation which might be attempted for its reduction : that is, an incision through the walls of the abdomen, large enough to admit the hand to draw back the stomach into its proper place. He informed the writer (Jan. 1856) that he had received from the Crimea an inte- resting account of a gunshot wound, in which the greater part of the stomach and duodenum protruded into the chest through a wound of the diaphragm caused by a Minie ball. A similar case is described in Williamson's Military ISurgery, page 91. CHAPTER XIX. strRGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. I. Foreign Bodies in the rectum sometimes require to be removed by surgical art. They may consist either of small bones or the like that have descended from above, or of pins, glyster-pipes, or other bodies introduced from below. Substances of very extraordinary dimensions (a blacking-bottle, for instance) have been forced into the anus. The grand point is first to dilate the bowel well, by passing in several fingers coated with lard, or by means of a speculum, and then a proper forceps, or a lithotomy scoop, may generally be used with success. Several specula have been invented for the purpose of enabling the surgeon to see into the anus ; to remove substances from within, or to make medicinal applications, or to perform operations. The simplest is a glass tube, silvered and covered with caoutchouc, of various sizes, and having various kinds of apertures to allow of the inspection of the mu- cous membrane. This was invented by Mr. W. Fergusson, A very complete three-valve speculum has been devised by Mr. Lane, and is made by Savigny. Others are made by Coxeter, and other mechani- cians. II. Imperforate Anus (vliresfa ani) signifies a congenital closure of the rectum, and may occur in various degrees. The anus may be merely closed thin, fine skin, which soon becomes distended with meconium; or the gut may terminate in a blind'pouch at any point from the sigmoid flexure downwards, the anal aperture being altogether wanting ; or the anus may be open for an inch or two, with an obstruc- tion beyond; or the rectum may terminate in the bladder, or urethra, which will be known by the escape of urine tinged with meconium ; or, * Sixth ed., 1855, p. 505.