552 HERNIA. enough to resist this pressure, some portion of the viscera may be forced through it, and form a hernial tumour externally. The predisposing cause of hernia, therefore, is a weakness of the parietes of the abdomen, which may be produced by various circum- stances. Thus, 1. Some parts of the parietes are naturally weaker than others, especially the inguinal and crural rings, and the umbilicus; and it is at these parts that hernia most fi'equently occurs. 2. The abdominal parietes may be weak from malformation, or congenital deficiency. 3. They may be weakened by injur}' or disease, such as abscesses, wounds, and bruises, or by distension by the pregnant uterus, or by obesity or dropsy. 4. In certain cases an unnatural elongation or laxity of the mesentery and other serous connections of the viscera and hypertrophy of the omentum by fatty deposit from a predisposing cause of hernia. The exciting cause is compression of the viscera by the action of the muscles that surround them, and especially of the diaphragm. Hence hernia is so frequent a result of violent bodily exertion—lifting heavy weights and the like—especially if the patient have been previously weakened by illness. Moreover, it is not uncommon in persons afflicted with stone or strictui-e, from the immoderate straining that they employ in passing their urine. The viscera most liable to hernial protrusion are the small intestines, omentum, and ai-ch of the colon. But every one of them has occasion- ally been found protruded, partially or entii'ely—especially in cases ot congenital deficiency of the abdominal parietes. The Sac of a hernia is a portion of the parietal or reflected layer of peritoneum which the protruding viscera push before them in their escape, and which forms a pouch containing them. It very soon con- tracts adhesion to the surrounding cellular tissue, and consequently does not return into the^ abdomen when the viscera are replaced, although it must be observed, that a hernia may be pushed back en masse, sac and all, when great force is used in reducing a strangulated hernia. As the hernia increases in size, the sac also increases ; partly by growth, partly by distension, and slight laceration or unravelling; partly by fresh protrusion of peritoneum. Sometimes it diminishes in thickness whilst increasing in capacity; sometimes, on the contrary, it becomes thick, indurated, and divisible into layers. Its neck (the narrow part which communicates with the abdomen) always becomes thickened, rigid, and more or less puckered, in consequence of the pressure of the muscular or ligamentous fibres which surround it. Sometimes the sac has two constricted portions, or necks—either because (as in oblique inguinal hernia) it passes through two tendinous apertui-es—(the external and internal abdominal rings)—or because the original neck has been pushed down by a fresh protrusion. Some hernise, however, are destitute of a sac, or at least of a complete one. This may happen,—1. If the protruded viscus is not naturally covered by peritonaeum ; as the cajcum. 2. If the hernia occur in consequence of a penetrating wound. 3. In some cases of congenital umbilical