198 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. CuEATiVE Treatment.—The remedies for gonorrhoea are three- fold : first, antiphlogistic measures, to get rid of inflammation ; secondly, certain medicines containing a volatile oil, which has a peculiar sanatory infiuence on the inflamed mucous membrane; and, thirdly, astringents to check the secretion of the inflamed surface. Of the first stage.—If the patient apply during the very first stage, before acute symptoms have come on, and if he be able to sacrifice his occupations to the cure, and to keep to the bed or sofa, the disease may almost infallibly be cut short by employing the abortive plan recom- mended by Ricord and Acton. Let him inject the urethra i-egularly once in four hours with a solution of two grains of nitrate of silver to eight ounces of distilled water (F. 134); let this be repeated twelve times, desisting, howevei", sooner, if the discharge is rendered thin and bloody, whicli is the ordinary effect of the nitrate. Then let a weak injection of sulphate of zinc be substituted (F. 135), and be continued till the discharge ceases. At the same time the patient should take a good purge, and after it, three times daily, a drachm of cubebs. He should avoid exercise, fermented liquors, salt, spice, coffee, and stimu- lants of every kind; he should take no supper, and should continue this regimen for a week or ten days after all trace of the discharge has disappeared. The penis should be cooled by a bag of iced water. The manner of injecting is of no small consequence, as the efficacy of the lotion depends entirely on its application to the whole of the diseased surface; and, as Dr. Graves observes, the ordinary opinion that gonoi rhcea is limited to the anterior extremity of the urethra is unfounded and mischievous. The patient should be provided with a glass syringe, with a long bulbous extremity, and having filled it, should introduce it for about an inch with his right hand. Then, having encircled the glans penis with his left forefinger and thumb, so as to compress the urethra against the syringe, and prevent any of the fluid from escaping, he should push down the piston with his right foiefinger, letting the fluid pass freely into the urethra. The syringe should now be withdrawn, but the orifice should still be compressed, and the fluid be retained for two or three minutes; after which, on removing the finger and thumb, it will be thrown out by the elasticity of the urethra. It is always worth the surgeon's while to see that the injection is properly used. Instead of using an injection, many patients who apply early before the inflammatory stage has come on, as well as patients who have had repeated attacks, may be cured by cubebs, in the dose of a drachm thrice daily. Of the second stage.—Supposing it to be a first attack in a young irritable subject, and that it has proceeded unchecked to the acute stage, the patient should be confined to the house. Walking, and, above all, horse exercise, should be prohibited. The penis and scrotum should be supported by a suspensory bandage, and be kept constantly cool. The glans penis, if very irritable, should be protected by a piece of lint spread with spermaceti ointment. The diet should be moderate,