65 PYEMIA. poisoned state of the blood, without the development of any local disease.> ,2. In a second set the poison expends its chief force on the liver, which exudes an immense quantity of dark bile, discharged by vomit- ing and purging. 3. The bowels may be the part to which the poison is determined ; then, there is great discharge of mucous, or serous, or bilious, or blood}'- liquids, of various colours and foetor, and after death the mucous mem- brane is found intensely congested. This too seems salutary in its in- tention. This second and third set of cases correspond to the bilious and dysenteric forms of puerperal fever. 4. Inflammation of the serous membranes may ensue ; rapid pleurisy, cough, dulness on percussion from effusion of bloody or turbid serum; or pericarditis; or effusion into the head, with delirium and coma; or peritonitis, tenderness and tightness of the abdomen, patient lying on his back, and not breathing with the diaphragm. 5. The skin may be, though less commonly, affected. There may be profuse offensive perspirations, or in some cases an attack of erysipelas, or an eruption of carbuncles, or of pustules like those of small-pox. 6. Lastly, the most characteristic symptom is that from which the name pycemia is derived; namely, the production of profuse suppura- tion. We cannot affirm that pyaemia is caused by absorption of pus,* as such; neither could it be proved if it were so, because it, like ery- sipelas, is attended with enormous production of the white corpuscles of the blood, which are virtually indistinguishable from pus. Yet we know that clots which form in the veins may break up and be disseminated ; and that pysemia most readily follows injuries or diseases of the bones which allow fetid discharges to pass into the veins. There can be no doubt that a portion of the blood, spoiled by this admixture, is de- posited in the form of unhealthy fibrine, which usually softens down into puriform fluid. Thus are formed the abscesses, which are some- times called secondary, or metastatic, or purulent depots,—names which are correct enough, in so far as they imply that the puriform fluid is deposited in, and not elaborated by, the suffering part. What that part shall be is determined by anatomical conditions. The lungs suffer from unhealthy blood brought from any part of the system; thus the low pneumonia following operations is explained. The liver will suffer if the seat of contamination be the abdominal system of veins. Portions of lung or liver may undergo gangrene through embolic obstruction of the artery or vena portae. Abscesses may form in the eye, or the joints, or the areolar tissue; and it is curious to notice how they often occur symmetrically ; in both elbows, or ankles, for instance. They may form with extreme rapidity. The patient, who may be lying in bed, with anxious, sallow countenance and rapid pulse, but no particular local symptoms, may all of a sudden complain of excruciating pain in the shoulder or calf, or some other part. This * See this well stated in Virchow, Cellular Pathology, by Chance, passim. D F