ULCERS ABOUT THE NAILS. 700 the contraction depends upon a congenital deficiency of the skin in the direction of the length of the finger. Thus a longitudinal web is produced * by extension. The most diag- ^ nostic sign is the absence of the padding and bandaging will then bring the finger into a straight position.! IX. Webbed Fingers.—This is a deformity consi.sting of an union of the fingers to each other. It may be congenital, or may be caused by burns. It is a most intractable affection. Mere division of the con- necting skin is often of no avail, for the fingers very often grow toge- ther again when the wound heals. In order to counteract their union, a flap of skin may either be brought fi'om the dorsum of the hand and be engrafted between the fingers, or, as Mr. Listen proposed, a perfo- ration may first of all be made in the connecting skin near the roots of the fingers, and be prevented from closing by keeping a piece of cord in it till the edges have healed, and then the remainder of the con- nexion may be divided. X. Ulcers ABOUT THE Nails.—1. A very common and trouble- some affection is that which is popularly termed ^^the growth of the nails into the flesh,''' and which most usually occurs by the side of the great toe. It does not, however, arise from any alteration in the nail, as its name would imply, but the contiguous soft parts are first swelled and inflamed by constant pressure against the edge from the use of * Contraction of the palmar aponeurosis. From a dissection by Mr. Partridge. ■}■ This instrument is constructed under Mr. W. Adams's direction by Bigg, of I^eicester Square. Mr. Gumpel, of Leicester Square, is also to be recom- mended as a maker of light and ingenious apparatus. deep transverse folds in the skin corresponding to the bend of the joints. In contractions produced by muscular action these trans- verse cutaneous folds are deepened instead of being obliterated. Treatment. — This form of contraction does not require any division of tendons, but yields to long-continued mechanical ex- tension, constantly applied for several months, or perhaps a year. A steel plate may be adapted to the palmar and dorsal aspects of the outer third of the hand, and held in position by elastic bands, so as to afford a fixed point, and from this plate a straight and narrow bar of steel may be cariied along the upper and outer margin of the fii'iger ; a little ingenuity in