would be found in the breast; and rates the number of soft cancers in this part much lower than Lebert does. Symptoms.—It is usually felt first as a tumour about the size of a nut; not tender nor painful; situated in, and incorporated with, some part of the breast. It gradually increases, feels excessively hard, be- comes irregular or tuberculated, and not circumscribed irom the sur- rounding pai-ts. Its tendency is to increase in breadth, rather than in prominence, and to involve more and more of the gland. In fact, the gland may appear shrunken ; especially when the disease produces ad- hesion of the skin and nipple and atrophy of the subcutaneous fatty tissue. From this cause the nipple and the skin often become drawn in and puckered. During this first period, the general health may be good, and the patient only be troubled with slight pains, especially about the menstrual times. The second stage is one of active local progress. Stabbing or lanci- nating pains of great severity come on ; the cancer more and more in- volves the skin, which reddens, then excoriates, then ulcerates awav, forming a chasm with hard jagged edges, greenish ashy surface, most foully-smelling discharge, and pain like coals of fire. This ulcer may be almost stationary for years; or may increase rapidly by sloughing; or may throw up fungous granulations; or even at some part may un- dergo an imperfect cicatrization. But slowly or quickly, on the disease goes. Adhesion of the gland to the pectoral muscle; cancerous infil- tration of the axillary glands and increasing decay of health and strength, complete the usual phenomena of this stage. In the third stage, other organs become affected. Severe rheumatic pains, deposit of cancer in the bones, with perhaps fracture ; cancerous deposits in the liver, with consequent sickness, and failure of appetite ; or in the uterus, or the breast; infiltration of the ribs and intercostal muscles, and effusion into the pleura, with pleuritic pain and dyspnoea : these added to the constantly-increasing original disease, at last wear out the miserable remnant of the patient's life. The average age at which this disease begins, is from thirty-five to fifty-five. Of 62 cases adduced by Lebert, 158 by Paget, 147 by Birkett, 22 only appeared before thirty. There is no evidence what- ever of any essential connection of this disease with marriage, celibacy, sterility, previous disease, mental causes, or external violence. The average duration of life is less than four years ; but in this matter there is great diversity. In some cases the disease begins with a furious on- slaught, and kills in a few months. The younger and more robust the patient, and the more rapid the early symptoms, the worse will the prognosis be. On the contrary, cancer affecting the aged and atro- phied, may linger on for many years, and kill the patient by inches. Treatment.—The first question that will arise, is the propriety of extirpation ; regarding which we must refer to p. 121. Suffice it to say, that although it were proved that the operation does not prolong life in the end; although the disease is sure to return in the cicatrix, in the other breast, or elsewhere ; yet, that the surgeon should advise D 2 Y