150 GUN-SHOT INJUEIES OF THE from such injury. Many survived four or five days after severe damage to the brain, but all these cases were eventually fatal. Gun-shot injuries of the face are of frequent occurrence, and present a greater amount of deformity than v^^ounds in any other part of the body ; nevertheless the issue of such cases, even when the bones are severely injured, is usually favourable, and a very large majority of the patients returned again to duty. During the Crimean war, out of 535 men treated for these injuries, during the second part of the campaign, only fourteen died, or 2*6 per cent., and 83 per cent, returned to duty. Any part of the face may have the integuments lacerated, or perforated, or the bones com- minuted, yet we have not any vital oj gan interfered with. The parts are vascular, and it is their vascularity which accounts for the rapidity with which repair is carried on. The chief danger is haemorrhage, but still, as there are no very large arteries, the bleeding usually ceases alter a while. If the lower jaw be torn away, the tendency of the tongue to fall upon the glottis will be a source of inconvenience to the patient. In the case of a private in the 31st regiment, who was wounded on the 2nd September in the second ;ittack on the Redan, the lower jaw was comminuted by a grape-shot, and the whole of it iu front of the angles was removed in splinters by the surgeon. The tongue was apt to tall backwards on the glottis, and interfere with respiration. This defect the man used to remedy by drawing it forward with his finger, and by resting with his face as prone as possible. He ulti-- timately recovered. Two cases are recorded during the late war in which grape shot weighing nearly eighteen ounces had lodged in the back of the pharynx, having entered through the lace, and breaking down all the tissues with which they came in contact. One patient was a private in the 1st battalion of the Royals, and was treated in the Castle Hospital, Bala- klava. The second was a private of the 31st Regiment. Treatment.—Remove all loose spicula of bone, and adjust the parts as neatly as possible, covering them with some light water dressing. If the jaw be fractured, maintain it in position, either by the per- forated wire or gutta-percha splint. The diet should be fluid, but good. SECTION VI.—GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE CHEST. Gun-shot Wounds of the Chest may be divided into, 1st. Those in which the cavity of the thorax has not been opened. 2ud. Those in which the cavity has been opened ; with or without injury to its contents. Of the second class, a very important practical distinction is that into penetrating and perforating. In the penetrating wound the ball, besides entering the chest cavity, remains lodged either iu its interior, or iu some neighbouring pai t. In the perforating wound