376 WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. beneath the conjunctiva, but a complete ecchymosis coming from behind, will also show the direction of fracture, across the sphenoid, ethmoid, and frontal bones. In some cases traumatic aneurysm of the orbit has followed, and has been relieved by ligature of the common carotid. In this and in other fractures of the skull the symptoms depend on the amount of injury to the brain, and so does the prognosis. Stupor, dilated and unequal pupils, with rapid pulse, hot skin, dry tongue, and delirium, are unfavourable symptoms; yet fracture of the base has been shown not to be necessarily fatal as was once supposed ; and if there is no primary injury to the brain, if the patient is thoroughly purged and kept on low diet and in the most absolute repose, so as to arrest inflammation, he may recover.* SECTION V.—WOUNDS OP THE BRATN, AND HERNIA CEREBRI. I. Wounds of the Dura-ma.ter add very considerably to the danger of compound fractures of the skull, both from the risk that inflammation may spread over the surface of the arachnoid, and from the greater chance of hernia cerebri. Hence this membrane should never be punctured in search of fluid, without due consideration. II. Wounds of the Sinuses are of no great consequence, provided the blood does not accumulate within the skull; haemorrhage from them is easily restained by pressure. III. Wounds of the Brain, whether incised or lacerated, are not attended with special and recognisable symptoms besides those which arise from the concussion, compression, or inflammation that may acci- dentally be present. Instances are numerous in which portions of the brain have been lost, without any ill consequences at the time or after- wards. But yet Sir B, Brodie has observed in some cases a greater degree of mental confusion than usually attends concussion, and, in others, spasmodic tvvitchings of the muscles. If foreign bodies are embedded in the brain, the danger will be materially augmented. Sir B. Brodie says, that no foreign body, whether a portion of the skull or not, is to be removed, if the removal will add in the least to the irritation or injury; but the practice of most surgeons is to remove them without delay, but with as little disturbance as possible. The treatment of these cases consists in the preventing of inflamma- tion, and in causing the wound to cicatrize without the formation of hernia cerebri. IV. Hernia Cerebri.—When a portion of the skull has been removed, the brain is liable to protrude through the aperture in the form of a rounded tumour, styled hernia or fungus cerebri. Mr. * See Guthrie, op. cit.; Sharp on Injuries of the Head, Lend. 1851; MM. Laugier, Robert, and Chassaignac, in Ranlting's Abstract, vols. ii. and iii.; Mr. Hilton's excellent Clinical Lectures, Lancet, 1853, vol. i.; and Prescott Hewett's Lectures, Med. Times, 1855 and 1858.