INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. 392 from increased vascularity, next from effusion; the pupil irregular, its contractiJe and expansive power diminished; dimness of vision; no great intolerance of light; pain, not scalding, but aching, or neuralgic, and of various degrees of intensity. Loss of transparency in the cornea, especially of the posterior elastic lamina, adhesions of the iris to the crystalline capsule; opacity of the lens and its capsule; softening of the inflamed cornea or sclerotic, so that they bulge under the pressure of the liquid within, fluidity of the vitreous humour, complete para- lysis, or permanent bulging of the iris ; loss of healthy structure of the retina, and various changes in the choroid, and effusion between it and the retina, are among the consequences of protracted subacute or chronic inflammation. Of the acute inflammation, attended with intensely ago- nizing pain, swelling of the eyelids, chemosis, flashes of light, and hot scalding tears, the consequence may be not merely effusion of lymph, with loss of transparency of the cornea and lens, but suppuration within the eyeball, indicated by shiverings, most acute pain, and a yellow distended cornea ; which in such a case sloughs, if not slit open by the surgeon. Causes.—Inflammation of the eyeball may be—1, traumatic, that is, caused by injuries; 2, idiopathic, or caused by various morbid states of the blood. 1. The first, or traumatic form, may be caused by various injuries, especially blows and wounds ; but the liability to it, and the severity of it will be greatly increased by intemperance, or any other circumstance which deranges the general health. The symptoms will be those which we have already enumerated, in various degrees of severity, attended with furred tongue, quick pulse, headache, and fever. The treatment embraces all the points treated of in the Chapter on the Treatment of Inflammation in general. First, the causes—foreign bodies, chemical irritants, and the like—must be removed if possible. Secondly, sooth- ing measures must be adopted to allay disturbed sensation;—per- fect rest of the eye, and if there be a wound of the eyeball, the eyelids should be closed by a narrow strip or two of court plaster; opium, to allay pain and to insure repose of body and mind; applica- tion to the injured part either of a bit of soft, dry, old cambric, or of a fold of rag dipped in cold water and frequently renewed ; or of linen dipped in warm water, or in a warm decoction of poppies, which- ever the patient finds most soothing; for if the one does not suit, the other must be tried. Thirdly, eliminatives; such as a good dose of calomel and colocynth with rhubarb and carbonate of potass, so as to drain the blood of cacoplastic matters. These complete the preventive measures. But if, notwithstanding, inflammation does come on, then, fourthly, the afflux of blood must be checked. If the patient is able to bear it, venaesection may be performed. If not, from eight to twelve leeches may be applied to the temple, or cupping. The fourth indication will also be assisted by the use of saline purges, and saline draughts with small doses of tai'tar emetic. Fifthly, should the pre- ceding measures not check the disease, or should bloodletting be con-