380 TREPHINING. of the skull. For the first and last cases, the trephine should be quite small, so as not to sacrifice more than is absolutely necessary. Supposing it to be a case of depressed fracture. In the first place, the bone, if not already laid bare by a scalp wound, must be exposed by an incision in the shape of a V, or H, or T. Then, perhaps, some loose fragment may be picked out, or a pi-ojecting point may be cut off with a Hey's saw, or with bone forceps, that will enable the surgeon to raise the depressed portion. But if this cannot be done, a circular piece, consisting of the edge of the depressed bone, and of the adjoining bone under which it has been wedged, must be removed. The peri- cranium being shaved off from the part which is to be perforated, the surgeon applies the trephine with the point of his forefinger pro- tecting the crown, and works it with an alternate pronation and supi- nation of the wrist, and when it has made a circular groove deep enough to work in steadily, he takes care to withdraw the centre pin. He saws on steadily and cautiously, pausing frequently and examining the groove with a probe, to ascertain whether it has reached the dura- mater, and when it has, he introduces the elevator to raise the circular piece of bone. He must be particularly careful to fix the centre pin, and the greater pai t of the circumference of the instrument, on firm bone,—and by no means to press heavily, whilst sawing, on any piece that is loose or yielding The saw will be known to have reached the diploe by the escape of blood with the bone-dust; but it must be recol» lected that the diploe exists neither in children nor in the aged. When the piece of bone is removed, the surgeon must gently insinuate the point of the elevator under that which is driven in, and using his finger or the edge of the firm bone as a fulcrum, must carefully raise it to its proper level. Small detached portions driven under the rest must be removed carefully by the forceps. Then all loose frag- ments having been removed, and the wound sponged clean, the scalp must be cai-efully laid down, and the patient be put to bed. The trephine should not be applied in the coui'se of the sutures or venous sinuses, nor over the lower part of the frontal or occipital bones, if it can be avoided ; but, if necessary, there is no great objection. n. Paracentesis Capitis, or puncture of the head, is an opera- tion that has been resorted to by Dr. Conquest in hopeless cases of hydrocephalus in children. It consists in inti'oducing a very fine trocar or giooved needle perpendicularly to the surface, through the anterior fontanel, as far as possible from the longitudinal sinus. When two or three ounces of fluid have escaped, the puncture should be carefully closed, and moderate support be applied to the head by bandages. If the child becomes fliiut, it must be kept in the recumbent posture, and have a few drops of sal volatile. The operation may be repeated at intervals of two or three weeks.* * See Dr. Watson's Lectures in the Med. Gaz. for March 1841.