136 WOUNDS. ordinary way of sewing things together practised by seamstresses and housewives. It is employed in wounds of the intestines and abdomen. 4. The Quill Suture is performed by passing a sufficient number of ligatures witli the needle here represented ; but instead of being tied to their opposite neighbours, all the threads on each side of the wound are fastened to a bougie, or metallic rod, perforated with holes. It is very advantageous in pressing the deep parts of a wound together, and is used in lacerations of the female perinseum. 5. The Dry Suture was made by sticking a strip of adhesive plaster, or (before that was in- vented) a strip of linen smeared with white of egg and flour, to the skin on each side of the wound. The adjacent margins of the plaster or linen were then sewed together. (4) The fourth indication is to promote the process of adhesion. For this purpose every circumstance that will disturb the lymph exuded, or that will cause it to decompose, must be scrupulously avoided. The wounded part should be kept absolutely at rest, and if the wound be at all severe the patient should be sent to bed. Pain and mental dis- turbance should be allayed, and sleep procured by opium ; the import- ance of which in preventing fever and pyaemia cannot be over-estimated. The bowels should be relieved, in order to combat any tendency to inflammatory exudation, and the diet be regulated. In most cases just as much light food as will replace the waste of a man at rest is suffi- cient : in some it may be necessary to give meat and wine, in order to make up for loss of blood, and supply material for healthy exudation. No bandages should be tight enough to cause irritation or constriction. If much pain and swelling supervene, all tight applications and sutures must be removed, and fomentations or poultices be applied, till the inflam- mation has subsided, or till suppuration is established. Then the parts may be again gently approximated, that they may heal by the second in- tention ; that is, by the inosculation of their granulations. In wounds, as in other inflammatory cases, cloths dipped into cold water, or a bladder filled with ice, is sometimes more comfortable than warm applications. Cases of complete Disunion.—If any small portion of the body (a finger or part of the nose, for instance) has been completely cut off, and if it be reapplied as soon as possible, and retained by plasters or sutures, and wrapped up so as to preserve its temperature, it will very probably unite again. And even if such a part have been separated for a considerable time, the attempt should not be given up ; but it should be well washed with warm water to free it from dirt, and the stump