220 SECTION X.—CONGENITAL SYPHILIS. The Fcetus in Utero and the membranes of tlie ovum are often infected with syphilitic disease. As regards the precise cause, it seems agreed that a syphiiized father or mother—whether the infection be new or of long standing—may beget a syphiiized fcetus. It is certain that if a woman be infected at any period of pregnancy she may give birth to a syphiiized child. It is also believed that the father may beget a syphiiized foetus, whilst the mother shall remain intact, or only be infected secondarily by imbibing the secretions of the syphiiized child ; or, which comes to the same thing, the mother of the syphiiized child may show no trace of the disease herself. SypHiLiTiG Abortion.—One of the commonest effects of syphilis in a pregnant woman is the production of a diseased state of placenta, by means of which the foetus is starved, and perishes, and is aborted. The author believes that this usually commences in the decidual portion, which becomes indurated, thickened, and impervious, so as to spoil lobule after lobule of the placenta, hindering the circulation of maternal blood through it, and inducing, as a subsequent change, atrophy of the villi of the chorion. On the other hand, the child may die from syphilitic disease, and atrophy of the placenta follow. Symptoms in the Infant.—Some children are born puny, shrivelled, and with eruptions on them ; but far more frequently the child, if it reach the full time alive, is well nourished and plump. In some of these cases the writer has been struck with the remarkable volume of the placenta, owing to hypertrophy of the decidual element, and a peculiar staining of pinkish colour. If a child be born healthy, the first manifestations of syphilis occur usually within a month, rarely later than three. The first symptom usually noticed is snuffles, a noise arising from purulent mucus in the nose ; then follow papulse on the palms and soles, and about the anus and scrotum, or female vulva: these are succeeded by mucous patches, which also appear in the mouth, and desquamation of cuticle from the tongue. If the disease go on, flat vesicles appear on the eyebrows, head, and body, leading to shallow ulcers with dusky margins, and covered with scabs. The anaemia and feebleness, and jaundiced tint, which accompany these symptoms show that the liver is probably affected, and in severe cases phthisis and atrophy prove fatal, and sup- puration of the thymus is said to occur. Treatment.—Few therapeutical processes are more easy and agree- able than the treatment of congenital syphilis, when the child is cleanly- kept and properly fed. All that is needed is to smear about ten grains of blue ointment every night on the soles of the feet, and let the child wear socks day and night. The first thing noticed in a few days is an improvement in nutrition and general well-being; then the local symptoms amend. This improvement in the process of healthy blood- making under mercury, and^the existence of anaemia as a first sign of relapse, are remarkable. In three weeks or thereabouts the course