FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 275 segment of a lesser circle than natural. The limb may generally be freely moved by the surgeon, although with great pain, especially if it be abducted ; but the patient cannot lift it from the bed. The above symptoms are liable to considerable diversity, arising from accidental variations in the manner in which the frac- ture occurred. Thus (a.) the amount of shortening (which was stated by Sir A. Cooper at from one to two inches) de- pends on the degree to which the fibrous investment of the neck is lacerated. This invest- ment is thickened by a reflexion of the fibres of the capsular ligament from its attachment into the neck of the bone to- wards the head, where it is covered by the synovial mem- brane of the joint. If that membrane be not much in- jured, the shortening may be much less than an inch ; more- over, it is doubtful, according to Dr. Smith, whether the capsular ligament, if entire, would permit the limb to be drawn upwards for more than an inch. Again, if the fibrous investment of the neck be not torn, or if the fracture be very oblique, so that the upper opposes the ascent of the lower fragment, or if the lower be driven into and impacted in the upper fragment, there may be no immediate shortening at all. (6.) The time at which shortening occurs may vary. Sometimes it is very slight at first, but becomes very decided in a few days, doubtless when the muscles have recovered from the paralysing effects of the injury. Sometimes, in an obscure case of fracture, the limb retains its natural length for a few days or weeks, and then suddenly shortens, whilst the patient is attempting to walk: doubtless because the attempt has caused the laceration of some untorn fibres of the periosteal invest- ment of the cervix, which before held the fractured parts in apposition. In other cases the limb gradually shortens to the extent of one or two inches during the six months succeeding the injury. This is owing to interstitial absorption of the neck of the femur. (c.) position of the limb is sometimes anomalous; being inverted in a few cases.