EXCISION OF THE WEIST-JOINT. 799 a simple curved flap from side to side; or beginning with a single | the surgeon may enlarge it to \— or H as he sees occasion. Gouge forceps rnay be of service in these and other like operations. IV, The shoulder-joint may be exposed by making a perpen- dicular incision through the deltoid, three or four inches downwards from the acromion ; and another from the extremity of the first incision npwai-ds and backwards to the posterior border of the deltoid. The triangular flap, thus formed, is reflected upwards and backwards; the joint is laid open ; the capsular tendons divided; the head of the humerus turned out and sawn off; and the glenoid cavity of the scapula, if diseased, may be removed by the bone-nippers or gouge. But as this operation is most frequently required in cases of gun-shot wound, the surgeon may vary his incisions, according to the extent and situation of the wound; and may make them of a V or T shape, or may make a simple curved flap, by cutting from near the coracoid process to an inch behind and below the root of the acromion. V. Excision of the wrist-joint.—This is an excision which has always been considered one of the least promising, because of the excessive complexity of the joints surrounding the diseased bones. Yet the surgeon will always do wisely to make every effort to preserve any part of the hand; for the removal of diseased parts cannot make the patient's case much worse, and there is always amputation as a last resource. The incisions and other steps of the operation must be various in almost every case, according to the place and extent of the disease, whether, for example, the ends of the radius and ulna, or the carpal bones only are diseased: no precise rules, therefore, can be laid down. But the general principles should be those which guided Mr. Butcher of Dublin, during that operation on the carpus Avhich is deservedly called by his name.* In this case the wrist-joint was excessively swollen, with numerous discharging sinuses around; the radio-carpal articulation grated on motion; a probe introduced into almost any sinus came into contact with roughened, crumbling, and broken-down bone; but the metacarpal bones and phalanges, the flexors of the fingers, and all the powers of the thumb were unimpaired. Having determined on operating, the first step was to make a curved incision, beginning a little below the wrist, two lines on the ulnar side of the extensor secundi internodii poUicis tendon, going down close to the carpal exti-emity of the metacarpal bones, and then sweeping upwards so as to finish below the end of the ulna fully half an inch higher than the point where it began, " The flap thus marked out," says Mr. Butcher, " was rapidly dissected up, and consisted of the integu- ments, areolar tissue, and extensor tendons of the four fingers, together with large deposits of fibrine." By the elevation of these soft parts * On Excision of the Elbow and Wrist-Joints, and the Preservative Surgery of the Hand, by Richard G. H. Butcher, Esq., Surgeon to Mercer's Hospital, &c., Dublm, 1855, Also Eeports in Operative Surgery, 3rd Series, Dublin Quarterly Journ., Med, Sc., Feb., 1859,