OVARIOTOMY. 538 on by Mr. Lizars forty or fifty years ago, of wliom one died; one re- covered ; in one, after the abdomen was laid open, there was found to be no tumour at all ; and in the fourth there was discovered an enormous mass of convoluted vessels looking like a placenta, which proceeded from the omentum to the tumo-ir, and of course rendered extirpation quite oat of the question, so that the incision was closed again.* Witliout, however, reproducing here more of the older partial statistical summaries, let us quote from the very elaborate table draw up by Dr. Clay, in his Translation of Kiwisch on Diseases of the Ovaries, I860. Dr. Clay gives a total of 537 cases of ovariotomy attempted or com- pleted. Of these, diagnosis was at fiiult in 36 : and an analysis of these instructively shows the affections most likely to be mistaken for ovarian disease ; 23 were uterine tumours, 2 mesenteric, 2 tubal fceta- tion, 2 omental, 1 splenic, 1 obesity and meteorism, 2 chronic inflam- mation and thickening of colon, &c., 2 no tumour at all, 1 not stated. In 13 of these some tumour was removed; in 23 the abdomen was closed without further operation. In 82 cases, the operation was abandoned through adhesions. By summing up the recoveries and deaths in these cases, we see what mortality has been due to laying open a diseased abdomen simply, without removal of a tumour. Thus, of these 82 cases, 58 recovered and 24 died. Of the 23 non-ovarian cases of simply opened abdomen, 16 recovered, and 7 died. In 24 cases there was partial excision of ovarian tumour. The com- plete excision was hindered by most close and extensive adhesions, or by a solid cancerous tumour. These are a fatal series ; 14 died. In 395 cases complete ovariotomy was performed ; and of these 212 recovered and 183 died. The prevalent causes of death were shock, hsemorrhage, and peritonitis. A few died from tetanus and other complications. Looking upon ovariotomy as embracing almost all the dangers of all surgical operations, it may be affirmed that it will participate in the general improvement which time brings. Shock will be mitigated by careful nourishment before the opeiation ; by a gentle administration of chloroform ; by a quick and dexterous operation, and by skill in mitigating symptoms afterwards. Operators are more on their guard against haemorrhage, and more alive to its dangers. Adhesions are better dealt with than formerly. As for peritonitis, they are more than ever convinced that this is another word for chemical decomposi- tion ; for the results of unclean hospital air; for the intrusion of pus into the peritonseal cavity, or of the decomposing sanies of the stump of the pedicle. And whatever makes ovariotomy safer will make all other surgical operations so also. On behalf of the operation we say, 1st, That the mortality arising from this is not larger than that from many other surgical operations; and, to use the words of Mr. Southam, the statistical argument is singularly inconsistent when used * Solly, in a Lecture in the Med. Gaz., vol. xxxviii. See Tilt, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii., p. 626.