256 NON-UNION OF FRACTUEE. 3rdly. The ends of the bone may be separated by and imbedded in the adjoining muscular or fibrous tissues so as to prevent the close contiguity necessary for a proper union. This has sometimes occurred in non-united fractures of the thigh and upper arm bones. Treatment,—There are three indications : 1st, To bind up the part in splints, or the starched bandages, or to envelop it in a mould of plaster of Paris, so as to insure perfect rest, perfect apposition, and pressure of the brolven ends against each other. But, as Sir B. Brodie very justly observes, the bandage should not be put on so tightly as to impede the general circulation of the limb, 2ndly. Should this not succeed, after a fair trial of six weeks or two months, means must be adopted to excite the adhesive inflammation around the fracture. This may be done by rubbing one end of the bone roughly against the other, and brealcing up any fibrous bands, and then splints should be again firmly applied for a month. If this also fail, some operation must be resorted to. 1. The surgeon may cut down on the fracture, by the subcutaneous method, and scarify the ends of the bones by a long narrow knife; or he may pass in a probe, or ii-on wire, between the broken extremities, and allow it to remain a week or ten days, after which the limb should be put up immovably in splints. 2, The fracture maybe cut down upon,and one or both of the broken ends be drilled with holes, into which ivory pegs are to be firmly driven, and allowed to remain for some weeks. 3. A seton may be passed through the limb, between the fractured ends, or through the fiesh close to the fracture, 4. If other measures also fail, the last resource is to cut down on the fractui e, and saw or shave off the ends of the bone (sometimes it is found that a little piece of muscle is wedged between them, which must be removed) ; but these opera- tions are of a most severe and dangerous character, and not to be resorted to without absolute necessity. 3rdly. Care should be taken to detect and remedy any constitutional disorder to which the want of union can be attributed. Debility must be counteracted by tonics, nutritive food, and stimulants. Mr. Fer- gusson relates a case of fractured thigh, in which no callus was formed for three weeks, until the patient was allowed a reasonable quantity of whiskey, to which he had been previously accustomed; and Sir B. Brodie relates similar instances. It will be worth while to administer lime plentifully in the form of liquor calcis with siU'saparilla, F. 84 ; or two ounces of lime-water may be given thrice a day, with an equal quantity of milk; or, which is better, the phosphate of lime, as recom- mended by the author, F. 201. Mercury may be given if there is a syphilitic taint; and Mr, B. Cooper gives a case of non-union in which, although the general health appeared perfectly good, mercury given to ptyalism effected a cure after the seton had failed.* A few instances are known in which, the callus, after union was completed, inflamed and became absorbed, so that the fracture was dis- * Vide Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations and Fractures, p, 568; Brodie in Med. Gaz. vol, xiii.; and cases by Kennett, Hill, Stanley, Bowman, Fergnsson, Hilton, Geohegan, Square, and others, in Ranking's Abstract, vols. x. xiv. and xvi.