DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. 151 the ball has passed clearly out of the cavity by an aperture of exit in addition to tliat of entrance. In the first class the danger is less than in the latter. Yet severe contusion of the lung may result from a blow of a spent cannon-shot on the thorax; or life may be endangered fi-om shell wounds causing severe laceration of the integument and injury to the ribs. Among wounds of the second class it most commonly happens that a ball passes through the lung. Here we have a track through the sub- stance of the lung, and generally pieces of the patient's dress, or frag- ments of wadding, are found to have been carried before the bullet in its course; A'essels must be torn through, and haemorrhage, often to a great extent, will take place at some period alter the receipt of the injury. This bleeding may occur in the following modes:— a. From the vessels of the chest wall. /8. From the vessels of the lung. The former class (o) may be either, 1st, external through the wound or, 2nd, internal into the cavity of the pleura. The second class (jS) may be internal: 1st. If slight, into the sub- stance of the lung. 2nd. It may flow into one of the bronchi, and so be coughed up. 3rd. If more severe, it may be into the cavity of the pleura, com- pressing the lung, and adding much to tlie patient's sufferings and danger; or it may be external. Possibly old adhesions of the lung to the pleura may exist, gluing the costal and pleural surfaces together, or fi"ora other causes the blood may escape through the wound inflicted by the missile. The lodgment of balls in the lung during the Russian war, owing to the use of rifles, was more rare than in former campaigns. The danger is much greater than when balls pass through the lung. There are, however, instances of men having lived for many years with a ball in one lung. In such cases it becomes clothed with an adven- titious cyst, and thus coated, seems no longer to act as a foreign body. Symptoms of wound of the lung.—Great collapse ; the face blanched and anxious ; difficulty of breathing in proportion to the extent of the wound, and probably some bloody frothy expectoration. In some cases of wounded lung no blood is expectorated ; while, on the other hand, cases of mere contusion of the surface of the lung by a round shot oi' passing ball is attended by bloody sputa. Sometimes there is emphysema in the region of the wound, but this is by no means a frequent or necessary occurrence. Fractured rib is the most frequent cause of emphysema. The prognosis in all penetrating wounds of the chest is unfavourable, particularly if the ball has lodged. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in bed, and the wound carefully examined, to ascertain whether the ball has lodged, or passed through the thorax; and when no counter opening can be found, it will often be detected lying beneath the scapula on the opposite side. The patient should not be roused from the state of collapse, if it be not