OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 758 nerve be excluded from tlie knot. The wound should be brought togetlier by sutures, the trunk be bent forwards to relax the muscles, and pressure be applied by means of a bandage and pads of cotton wool. Sir Astley Cooper, of whose method of operating the above is a mo- dification, separated the internal oblique and transversalis muscles from Poupart's ligament, instead of cutting through them rather higher up, as described above. The advantages of the latter plan are, that the epigastric and circumflexa ilii arteries, and the circumflexa ilii vein which crosses the artery low down, are not interfered with, neither is the spermatic cord, nor the abdominal ring. Moreover, if it should seem expedient to tie the vessel higher up, it might be done without much difficulty, by drawing up the upper edge of the wound. The circumflexa ilii and epigastric arteries ai'e of importance for the collateral circulation. But, on the other hand, it must be confessed that the peritonjeum is rather more interfered with. In the method of operating recommended by Abernethy, the incision is made in the course of the artery, instead of across it, as in Sir A. Cooper's method. It extends upwards and inwards about three inches, from an inch above the centre of Poupart's ligament, towards the umbilicus; being longer in proportion to the stoutness of the patient. The subsequent steps are those of Sir A. Cooper's plan. This operation is convenient for cases in which it is doubtful before- hand whether the external or the common iliac should be tied. Its disadvantages are, that the peritonaeum is very much disturbed, and that there is greater liability to hernia afterwards.* II. The Common Iliac Artery.—In order to tie this artery, an operation has been proposed similar to that of Cooper for the external iliac; but it would be vtry difficult in a thin patient, and almost im- possible in a fat one. It is better to make the formidable curved in- cision shown in the cut (p. 757). An incision is made from six to eight inches in length, the lower third being about an inch and a half or two inches above Poupart's ligament, and parallel with it. The muscles must be divided, and the transversalis fascia torn through, according to the rules given for exposing the external iliac artery. In fact, there is no practical sur- gical difference between them, except that the operation under considera- tion is more difficult, and requires more care and more assistants. The intestines are sure to bulge more or less into the wound directly that the fascia transversalis is divided, and here is the chief difficulty to be encountered. With the greatest gentleness they must be drawn up- wards, while the operator separates the peritonseum from the iliac fossa. There need be no apprehension about the fate of the ureter, as * This artery was tied by Mr. Partridge, in the King's College Hospital, in November, 1846, for aneurysm of the common femoral, in a patient only 23 years ■old. It was tied by Mr.Thomas Nunn, in January, 1849, for aneurysm of the common femoral, and by Mr. H. Smith, in August, 1850, for aneurysm of the superficial femoral high up. The ligature came away on the twenty-eighth day. All three patients did well. Mr. Smith has at different times tied the external iliac on one side, and the superficial femoral on the other, in the same patient.