OF THE CHANCROID. 201 it is said that they do good in both sexes. Abscesses or other compli- cations, if they occur, must be treated on general principles. In any obstinate discharge, the cervix uteri should be e:xamined through the speculum, and the interior of its canal be touched with solid nitrate of silver, if a copious muco-puruient discharge be seen to issue from it. Steel is of service in chronic cases. An efi'ective but coarsish method which the writer has seen in the Hopital de I'Ourcine is to open the vagina with a bivalve speculum, and shovel in about a dessert-spoonful of powdered alum. Gonorrhoeal ovaritis.—Gonorrhoea may be complicated with in- flammation of the ovary, and it is said, even with pelvic cellulitis. The symptoms are severe pain deep in the pelvic region, aggravated by coughing, movement, and pressuie ; with feverishness and probably vomiting and great genera] disturbance. The practitioner will recog- nize an inflammatory attack; he will make out that it does not belong to the bowels or urinary oi gans; and he will probably gather from the patient the existence of heat and scalding, of swelling and tenderness, and purulent discharge. Then if the patient be a respect- able married woman, as has been the case with patients whom the writer has seen, the gonorrhoeal element must be a matter of speculation unless the husband confesses it. A few leeches, castor oil, warm fomentations and poultices, and soothing poppy injections are the remedies. SECTION III.—OF THE SOFT, OR SUPPURATING VENEREAL SORE, OR CHANCROID. General Description.—This is'the most common form of vene- real ulcer, and is rarely met with except on the organs of generation. In man it is most common on the inner surface of the prepuce or in the furrow round the glans, and especially by the fra?num. It is most liable to attack some crack, or excoriation, or get into some sebaceous or hair follicle, or to be imbibed by moist mucous membrane ; and is probably innocuous on dry cuticle. Hence the preservation derived from circumcision and uncovered glans. This ulcer has no period of incubation, and probably acts continuously from the moment when the poison first takes eliiect. It is often multiple ; it is very conta- gious, and easily inoculable, spontaneously or by art, up to the time when it begins to heal. Symptoms.—These may be studied when this sore is produced by inoculation with the point of a lancet. It corresponds to the type of an ulcer, p. 69. During the first twenty-four hours the puncture reddens; in the second and third days it swells slightly, and becomes a pimple, surrounded by a red areola; from the third to the fourth day, the cuticle is raised by a turbid fluid into a vesicle, which displays a black spot on its summit, consisting of the dried blood of the puncture ; from the fourth to the fifth day, the morbid secretion increases and be- comes purulent, and the vesicle becomes a pustule with a depressed