459 CHROKIC INFLAMMATION OF THE EAR. and the bowels should be opened by calomel and efficient purga- tives. Should the acute symptoms not be mitigated by these mea- sures, and especially if there should be any sense of fulness, or swell- ing, or fluctuation over the mastoid process, an incision, an inch or more long, should be made with a stout scalpel through the periosteum, down to the bone, parallel to and half an inch from the attachment of the auricle. Blisters may be applied when the acute stage is subsiding ; or a portion of the incision, if made, may be converted into an issue. Extreme pain of a neuralgic or rheumatic character accompanying otitis may be allayed by painting with tincture of aconite, or with solution of extract of belladonna in warm laudanum, behind the auricle; and by cinchonism, as in treating the so-called rheumatic oph- thalmia, p. 414. In some of these cases when pus has been formed within the tympa- num, or a lai-ge quantity of mucus has accumulated, which, owing to swelling of the mucous membrane, cannot find exit by the Eustachian tube, it is very desirable to perforate the membrana tympani. Irrepa- rable disorganization of the ear may thus be prevented, and much suf- tiering saved. A bulging outwards of the membrane from the pressure within, taken in connection with the other symptoms, would constitute the indication for this proceeding, A small thin-bladed knife, or a shai-p steel probe may be used. Care must be taken not to touch the ossicula, or the internal wall of the cavity. The best position for the incision is at the lower and posterior portion of the membrane. II. Subacute and Chronic Inflammation.—The researches of Toynbee and Wilde have shown most conclusively that by far the majority of cases of deafness are not nervous, as is sometimes thought, but depend on changes wrought in the tympanic cavity by subacute or chronic inflammation. Mr. Toynbee divides the diseased appearances in the tympanic cavity into three stages. In the first stage, the lining membrane retains its natural delicacy of structure, but its vessels are enlarged and tortuous; blood is sometimes effused into its substance^ and sometimes lymph is poured out on its free surface. In the second stage the membrane is thickened and flocculent; and occasionally covered with cheesy, tuberculous, or fibro-calcareous concretions; but the morbid change most frequently observed consists of fibrous bands, which are sometimes numerous enough to occupy nearly the whole of the cavity. In some instances they connect the inner sur- face of the membrana tympani to the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, or to the incus and stapes; but by far most frequently they extend from the crura of the stapes to the adjoining wall of the tympanum, so that this bone is, as it were, completely enveloped in a fog of adhe- sions.* In the third stage, the membrana tympani is ulcerated, as is also frequently the mucous membrane of the tympanum ; the ossicles * These adliesions, however, do not in all cases occasion deafness ; they are probably sometimes part of the natural formation of the organ. It is to be remembered, also, that mucus may dry up into membranous-looking shreds, undistingiiishable by the eye from those formed by lymph. Hinton, Med. Chir. Trans., J85G, and Guy's Hospital Keporis, 1863.