MORTIFICATION. 84 feet are most liable to mortify under such circumstances, next the finger- tips, nose, and ears. Of course constitutional debility predisposes to mortification from local causes that otherwise would be insufficient ; hence the gangrene of the feet of the poor soldiers after standing in wet and cold trenches before Sebastopol ;—hence the frequency of sloughing of the skin over the hips and trochanters after long illnesses ; and the danger lest blisters applied to children after measles and scar- latina should cause sloughing. The ergot of rye has the reputation of causing gangrene of the extre- mities by some specific action in closing the arteries. Perhaps the starvation, sure to be associated with a diet of spoiled corn, has more to do with it. Mortification is commonly said to be one of the terminations of in- flammation. This is true to a certain extent;—if the part inflamed be peculiarly situated; thus, for example, the cornea may slough in acute conjunctivitis ; the skin of the penis or even the glans in acute inflammation, with much swelling ; the ends of the fingers in whitlow; or if the part inflamed be already diseased and weakened;—as, for ex- ample, the skin of the legs of an old woman. There are some special blood-poisons which produce local inflammations that almost always have something gangrenous ;—as the small-pox pustule ; scarlatinous sore-throat, boil, carbuncle, and phlegmonous erysipelas. The tissues most disposed to mortification are the gelatinous; as areolar tissue, tendons, and ligaments, if the tissue surrounding them have been destroyed ; bone, if deprived of its periosteum ; next, the skin, especially if the subjacent tissue have mortified or have become in- llltiatod witli fluid. Muscles, blood-vessels, and nerves resist it most. Wiiilst caiigreue is spreading, the dark colour is diffused, and insen- sibly lost in the surrounding skin; but when its progress is arrested, a healthy circulation is re-established up to the very margin of the spha- celated portion, and a bright-red line of adhesive inflammation (called the line of demarcation) sej)arates the living parts from the dead. And the appearance of this line is most important as a means of prognosis, because it shows that the mischief has ceased, and that there is a dis- position to repair its ravages. Separation of the Mortified Part.—It is at this bright-red line of demarcation that the dead part is separated by ulceration. ' A narrow white line, consisting of a narrow circular vesicle, and formed by a sepai-ation of the cuticle, first appears on it; and when this is broken, a chain of minute ulcers is seen under it. These gradually unite and form a chink, which widens and deepens till it reaches the bone ; meanwhile the dead bone is cut off by a process to be hereafter de- scribed : thus the slough is entirely detached, and then a granulating and suppurating surface remains. In this manner the whole of a mor- tified limb may be spontaneously amputated ; the bone and tendons separating higher up, and being more slowly detached than the skin, muscles, and blood-vessels. When the adhesive inflammation has duly occurred, this process of separation is unattended with hsemor-