ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 38 4. To moderate the afflux of blood. 5. To hinder degeneration in the fluids exuded, and procure their absorption. We shall speak in this order of the means by which each indication may be fulfilled. 1. To remove causes.—The taking away of any irritating substances, such as thorns and splinters, and placing every injured part under such conditions that the reparative exudations shall not be disturbed, are so obviously necessary as to require no mention. 2. To purify the blood.—In most cases, and more especially if the complexion is muddy, the bowels confined, the tongue foul, the urine either loaded or preternaturally pale, a dose of from one to five grains of calomel may be given, and followed by black draught, castor oil, colocynth, or some other purgative, and repeated so long as the stools continue lumpy, dark, bilious, and offensive, or until they are inodo- rous. In gouty cases, the acetic extract of colchicum may be com- bined with the calomel. See F. 33, et seq. Both the kidneys and skin may most usefully be made to perform their functions by warm baths ; by cold drinks, saline, and alkaline draughts, F. 58, lemon-juice, seltzer-water; by small doses of antimony, or of colchicum, V. (J<s, GO, &c, 3. To (i/liti/ the irritation of the affected part.—This is a most important indication in the prevention and treatment of inflammation. All pain and sense of injury should be tranquillized if possible. For this purpose, in most cases, warm fomentations are advisable, particu- larly if medicated with decoction or extract of poppies, F. 121. Warm fomentations relax the skin, soothe pain, and promote per- spiration, and likewise hasten suppuration when that is inevitable. They are especially indicated in inflammations of dense tendinous parts. But in every case the patient's feeling should be consulted, and the application be warm or cold according to his choice. Injured or inflamed parts should be kept at rest, in an easy position, and should be elevated slightly, so that the return of blood may not be hindered. To fulfil this indication, opium and other anodynes are of the greatest value. They should be given after injuries and operations, in such quantities as to keep the mind tranquil, and prevent the patient fi'om concentrating his whole thoughts upon the part affected. They tend to diffuse the blood generally, to warm the skin, and to prevent local congestion, and they save the exhaustion of pain and spasm. In most cases of acute idiopathic inflammation it will be expedient, before ad- ministering opiates, to take care that the blood is well purified; and whenever bleeding is necessary, that also should be executed first of all. But in inflammation of the bowels, in which repose is essential, in low inflammation arising from morbid poisons, or in exceedingly debilitated or exhausted states, with a soft, rapid pulse, and when the patient is sleepless and harassed in mind it is of infinite service, and may be given at once. Henbane, hemlock, and the extracts of aconite and belladonna, are likewise of great use in many cases as anodynes.