STONE IN THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 643 ammonia when treated with liq. potassse ; is soluble in acetic or muri- atic acid; precipitated again by ammonia in form of crystals of basic phosphate; fusible under the blowpipe, its fusibility varying with the amount of triple phosphate. V. The FUSIBLT3 Stone is formed of the phosphate of lime and triple phosphate mixed. It forms a white friable mass like mortar, and is very fusible. VI. The Mulberry Stone is composed of oxalate of lime. It is dark red, rough, and tuberculated. Tests.—Not dissolved hy boiling in potass ; soluble in nitric acid ; if exposed to the blowpipe, the acid is burnedoff, and quicklime is left, which, if moistened, reddens turmeric paper. VII. Besides the above, stones are sometimes composed of cystine, a peculiar animal substance, containing much sulphur, soluble both in alkalies and dilute mineral acids, but not in acetic acid: precipitable in peculiar six-sided crystals by acetic acid from its solution in ammonia (see fig. 3, p. 640); also of carbonate of lime; of the fihrine of the blood, and of xanthic or uric oxide, a peculiar animal matter allied to uric acid. The lithate of soda, the lithate and carbonate of magnesia, and silica, are also rare ingredients in calculi. Alternatiiig Calculi.—Sometimes stones are composed of alternate layers of lithic acid and oxalate of lime; and very commonly the outer layers of a stone are phosphatic, the nucleus lithic or mulberry. The phosphates commonly succeed the other deposits, being surely produced after a time by the irritation of the mucous membrane ; but the lithic and mulberry never coat the phosphates. SECTION X.—STONE IN THE KIDNEY AND URETER. Symptoms.—The symptoms of stone in the kidney are, pain in one or both loins; irritation and retraction of the testicles; the urine bloody after violent jolting exercise; and occasional fits of inflamma- tion of the kidney. Stones in the kidney are most frequently com- posed of hthic acid, which will be known by the deposit of red sand from the urine. The oxalate of lime is more rare. Crystals both of this substance and of lithic acid have been detected in the tubuli uriniferi. Phosphatic stone in the kidney is still more rare. When it does exist, it is generally composed of the phosphate of lime, and indicates incipient disease of the organ. Treatment.—When a stone is ascertained or suspected to exist in tlie kidney, the indications ave,fii'st, to examine the general health, and treat any derangement according to the rules laid down in the previous sections; secondly, to endeavour to expedite the passage of the stone through the ureter, by diluents and diuretics; and by the cautious use of exercise so as to dislodge it; and, thirdly, to remove inflammation if it exist, by cupping on the loins, by mild aperients and copious enemata of warm water, by opium or henbane, and by warm baths or fomentations. Pounded ice applied to the loins gives great