681 PROLAPSE OF THE VAGINA. and of the lower part of the vagina between must be freely denuded of mucous membrane. Haemorrhage must be checked by iced water, or if necessary by ligatures; then the parts are to be brought to- gether by the quill suture. Three good-sized ligatures should be passed quite deeply through the tissues, and be attached to a piece of bougie on either side, and the edges of the skin be brought together by two or three interrupted sutures. Then the finger being introduced into the anus, and a straight probe-pointed bistoury by its side, the sphincter should be divided. The catheter must be retained after the operation, to prevent the contact of urine with the wound, opium be freely given, and the bowels kept confined for four or five days.* It is very important in this operation (especially if it be associated, as it often is, with prolapse of the uterus) to have a broad and extensive sur- face of adhesion by denuding the mucous membrane sufficiently, and taking deep hold with the sutures, so as to bring together firmly the elastic fas^cia which supports the perinajum on each side. If this is not done, dilatation speedily takes place of the cicatrix, producing a thin stretched and feebly resisting perinasum. Generally it is advisable to employ, superficially, the common interrupted suture, in addition to the deep quilled suture. VI. The Catheter may be easily introduced into the female urethra with one hand, thus:—The surgeon holding it like a pen, but with its point on the tip of the forefinger, passes the forefinger between the labia, and feels for the meatus, placing his finger firmly upon the nodular projection behind it at the entrance to the vagina. The cathe- ter, guided upon the finger, is then easily slipped into the orifice. Either hand may be used, according to the patient's position in bed. Vn. A Vascular Excrescence, varying in size from a large pin's head to that of a horse-bean, is liable to grow from the female urethra, causing great distress through its exquisite sensibility. It should be cut off, and the potassa fusa be applied to the surface to pre- * The plan of dividing the sphincter was proposed by Horner : the necessity of opium by Davidson: all the essentials of the operation are summed up by I. B. Brown, in his work on Diseases of Women, Loud., 1S54.