47 CHAPTER VIIT. HiEMORRHAGE. HEMORRHAGE, like serous effusion, may be a consequence, Istly, of inflammation or excitement; 2ndly, of obstruction to the leturn of venous blood; and 3rdly, of structural weakness of the blood-vessels and impurity of the blood, as in scurvy and putrid fevers. The first form is called active, the last two passive, (1.) Active hcemorrJiage consists in an escape of arterial blood from the capillaries, when I'uptured by distention caused by acute in- flammation or violent excitement; and more or less of it doubtless occurs in every case of violent inflammation. It occurs during the formation of abscess in the areolar tissue and in the liver. Haemorrhage is known to accompany certain violent forms of pleurisy and pericarditis. But its most frequent seat is mucous membrane. Menstruation is the type of an inflammatory hsemorrhage of mucous membrane. Exfoliation of mucous membrane, which accompanies the hsemorrhage so notably in dysmenorrhoea, occurs also in dysentery, in cystitis, and in nephritis. The surgeon is chiefly concerned with epistaxis or hcemorrhage from the nose ; htemorrhois or hsemorrhage from the rectum, and hsemorrhage from the urethra during gonorrhoea. Sometimes the blood issues, not from the surface of the inflamed membrane, but from portions of exudation, which have become vas- cular, and whose newly-formed capillaries haA^e been over-distended and ruptured. Granulating wounds bleed likewise. Diagnosis.—Inflammatory or active hsemorrhage is distinguished from that which is the result of congestion or debility, by the presence of pain, heat, and throbbing, and of a febrile state of the pulse and system generally. Treatment.— This form of hsemorrhage is to be treated by an anti- phlogistic and cooling regimen. (F. 34, 35, 75). Cold, if it can be applied, perfect rest, and an elevated position, are the local measui es. (2.) In passive Immorrhage the blood which escapes is venous. The principal instances of it are hsemorrhage from the nose in old subjects with diseased liver; meloena, or hsemorrhage from the liver, and passive menorrhagia. The chief remedies are, dilute sulphuric acid, sulphate of alumina, acetate of lead, catechu, gallic acid, and other vegetable astringents which increase the coagulability of the blood, and ergot of rye, which increases the contraction of the capillaries. F. 14, 186, 187, &c.