423 CATARACT. standing, the surface of the cataract frequently assumes a uniform milk or cream-white colour. 2. Soft Cataract.—While hard cataract is seen only in persons above thirty-five years of age, soft cataract may occur at any period of life. It appears to be due to disintegration aftecting the whole substance of the lens, similar to that which affects the surface alone in hard cataract. The colour in infancy is bluish white, like milk and water ; later in life there is generally less of the blue tint. The surface frequently presents an appearance like that of fractured spermaceti; or it may be traversed by radii and streaks, which glisten like a piece of tendon. In this variety vision is generally more imperfect than in the hard kind. The iris is frequently pressed upon by soft cataract; but this may also occur in hard cataract when the surface of the lens is much degenerated. This phenomenon is probably due, in the majority of instances, to the swelling of the diseased lens from the imbibition of moisture; but in other instances, the opinion of Mr. Walton is doubtless correct, that it is tiaused by unnatural vascularity in the deep-seated textures of the eyeball. 3. Congenital Cataract must, therefore, always be soft. In this variety vision is generally more imperfect than in the hard kind. 4. Capsular Cataract.—In this variety the opacity may be general, or may commence partially. It is almost invariably of a dead or chalky whiteness, scarcely ever shining, and always showing the same opacity in whatever position it may be viewed. It is not unfre- quently the result of a slow inflammation, which may be accompanied with pain in the eye. It may be produced also by inflammation extend- ing from the iris. Opacity of the anterior portion may be seen im- mediately behind the iris. That of the posterior appears at some little distance behind the pupil, and presents a concave striated surface, of a dull-yellowish appearance. 5. Capsulo-lenticular cataract is very common,—in fact, entire opacity of the capsule is always followed by opacity of the lens. Treatment.—The cataract must be removed by operation. No other treatment is of any avail to get rid of the disease. It is, how- ever, a general rule not to operate till the cataract is mature—that is, not whilst the degree of vision is sufficient for ordinary purposes; more particularly if the patient is very old and feeble, or if one eye is already lost; because, under these circumstances, a fiulure of the operation would entail utter blindness. Therefore the patient should assist his vision by using F. 198, night and morning, so as to dilate the pupil, and defer the operation till, despite of that aid, his blindness is com- plete. Prognosis.—This will be favourable if the patient is in good health and of temperate habits ; if the iris moves freely, and if the retina seems perfectly sensible to light. On the other hand, it will be doubt- ful if there are signs of vascular disturbance in the eye; if the iris is motionless or altered in colour ; or if the cataract is complicated with amaurosis, softness of the eyeball, or glaucoma. Preparation.—Before operating, the patient should be put into as