FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 267 pectoral teres and latissimus, the upper fragment is tilted upwards and outwards, by the supra and infra spinati, and the lower drawn inwards by the first-mentioned muscles. It will be found in such cases impossible to get the axes of the fragments in a sti'aight line, and it will be prac- ticable only to prevent the lower fragment being drawn too much towards the thorax. This will be best accomplished by placing a stout pyramid pad in the axilla with the thicker end uppermost—a long splint hollowed out at the upper end, and reaching from the acromion to the outer condyle, on the outside, and a bandage round both arm and body, leaving the elbow free, but including the hand and forearm. In one case, Mr. Tyrrell was obliged to keep the arm at right angles with the side, by means of a splint like the letter L upside down: and the surgeon's ingenuity will often be taxed to devise means suited for par- ticular cases. At the expiration of about five weeks, the patient may be allowed to swing the arm gently backwards and forwards, and gradually to bring it into use. Fracture of the lower extremity of the Humerus may present many varieties. 1. There may be an oblique f racture above the condyles, which usually happens to children. The radius and ulna, with the lower fragment, are drawn upwards and backwards as in dislocation ; but the natural appeai'ance of the parts is restored by extension. 2. Either condyle may be broken off, and the fracture may or may not extend into the joint. 3. There may be one fracture between the two condyles, and another separating them both from the shaft. All these injuries may be distinguished from dislocation of the elbow by noticing that the motions of the joint are free, and are attended with crepitus above the elbow, and that the length of the forearm, measured between the condyles of the humerus and the lower extremities of the radius and ulna, is the same as on the sound side. The patient should be warned that it is very difficult to avoid all deformity and loss of motion. * Line of oblique fracture of the lower extremity of the humerus, and the kind of deformity.