DISEASES OF THE IRIS. 420 2. The operation of incision with extension was proposed by Mr. Walton for cases in which, owing to loss of contractility in the iris, a sufficiently large aperture could not be made by simple incision. The iris is divided by incision, and then, by means of a fine blunt hook, the outer lip of the incision is drawn outwards till a sufficient opening is made. 3. A third operation, similar in principle to the last, is effected by introducing a very fine pair of scissors, through a wound in the margin of the cornea; thrusting one blade through the iris, and making first one cut, then a second, meeting at an acute angle like the letter V. 4. The operation of excision {corectomia) consists in incising the cornea, close to the margin, drawing out the iris by a hook or forceps (if it does not protrude of itself), and cutting out a small portion of it. This is applicable to cases of opacity of the cornea, with the iris and lens healthy; or to closure of the pupil from lymph, with adhesion to the centre of the capsule, without opacity of the lens or of the rest of the capsule; for it is now established that the centre of the capsule may be opaque from lymphy deposit after iritis, and the lens and rest of the capsule remain transparent. 5. Another operation adaptable to cases of closure, complete or par- tial, of the pupil, the lens being healthy, consists in puncturing the cornea, introducing the very fine canula forceps, seizing the iris close to the pupil, and tearing away a portion of it; or else introducing a hook, seizing the edge of the pupil, and tearing a thin strip outwards. 6. The operation of separation (coredialysis), which consists in tearing away a portion of the circumference of the iris, is resorted to when there is central opacity of the cornea, with a portion of the cir- cumference clear; the pupil being also closed from prolapse or adhesion to the cornea. 7. The operation of Iriddesis, devised by Mr. Critchett.* It is thus perfoi-med : a small opening is made into the anterior chamber close to the margin of the cornea; the iris is seized with the canula forceps, near its ciliary margin, and drawn out until the pupil is sufficiently displaced, and the piece thus drawn out is secured and strangulated in a small loop of floss silk, previously slipped over the forceps, and drawn tight by an assistant. This operation is particularly applicable in cases of central opacity of the cornea. The best position for the pupil is as nearly central as possible: if it cannot be made central, it is better, according to Mr. Walton, at tlie inferior margin of the iris. But before resorting to any of these operations, it must be ascer- tained, 1st, that the adhesions of the iris cannot be removed by mercury or belladonna; or opacity of the cornea by extei-nal applications, aided by time, which, if the health be kept in good ordei-, does much towards restoring every impaired organ to its normal condition ; 2nd]y, that the retina is perfectly sound; 3rdly, that all tendency to inflamma- * Opbllialmic Hosp. Eeports, vol. i., p. 220.