416 DISEASES OF THE IRIS. Symptoms.—In the first stage, the fibrous texture of the iris is in- distinct, appearing confused, and it loses its colour ; if dark, it becomes reddish ; if blue, it becomes greenish. The pupil, also, loses its mobi- lity, is contracted and irregular. In the next stage, lymph begins to be effused ; sometimes in the form of a thin layer, causing the surface to appear rusty and villous,—sometimes in small nodules; sometimes the pupil is filled with a film of it, sometimes, but very rarely, it is poured out in such abundance as to fill the whole cavity of the aqueous humour. The eye displays that kind of redness which arises from vas- cularity of the sclerotic; that is to say, a pink redness, with vessels running in a straight line from the circumference of the eye, and ter- minating in a vascular zone around the cornea; but in very acute cases the entire conjunctiva becomes injected likewise. Sometimes the cornea is slightly hazy. The patient complains of intolerance of light and dimness of vision, and of more or less burning, stinging pain in the eye; but besides this, there is also a severe neuralgic aching of the brow and parts around the orbit, coming on in nocturnal paroxsyms. Causes..—Iritis, as we explained in the first section, may be caused by injuries, or by over-exertion of the eye; but it more frequently de- pends on constitutional taint, syphilis, or gout. Prognosis.—Favourable, if the disease is recent, although the impair- ment of vision may be considerable ; but doubtful, if it be of very long duration, if there be much deep-seated pain, and especially if there be effusion of lymph behind the iris. Varieties.—Iritis may vary in the degree of acute inflammation which attends it ; being active and rapid, attended with bright redness, great pain, and fever, if it occurs in a robust plethoric subject; but in other cases, slow and insidious. It is also divided into several species, according to the na- ture of the cause pi-oducing it. Thus 1. The traumatic iritis is that which arises from pene- trating wounds of the eye. 2. Syphilitic i7ntis. — This is the most frequent variety. It is distinguished by the effusion of lymph on both surfaces of the iris, and in little nodules of a reddish or dirty- brown colour, which cause the pupil to become irregular. There is o-reat pain at night, and but little by day, and secondary venereal affec- tions of the throat or skin are usually present at the same time, or have preceded it. It may occur to infants who are affected with constitu- tional syphilis. * A drawing representing the nodules of lymph effused in syphilitic iritis.