OVARIOTOMY. 534 impoi'tcince in tapping non-adherent ovarian cysts. If the trocar is a large one, which is expedient in ovarian dropsy, it will be as well, before introducing it, to puncture the skin with a common lancet. The aperture is afterwards to be closed with lint and plaster, and a broad bandage with napkins as a compress, to be applied with comfort- able tightness. (See Bandages.) If a patient with ascites happens also to have an old irreducible hernia, and the sac is much distended, and preserves a f)-ee communication with the abdomen, it is a good plan to puncture the sac instead of the linea alba. 11. Ovariotomy.—The ovary, which, in a healthy condition, is about inch in its long diameter, and composed of peritongeal and fibrous coat, enclosing a vascular stroma filled with minute cysts, is liable to many diseases. Sometimes a solid tumour is developed in it, or a cutaneous cyst containing hair, teeth, and bone. But the disease to which the name ovarian tumour, or ovarian or encysted dropsy is given, may be described as an exaggeration of the entire organ, or of one or more of the individual cysts contained in it, into an enormous tumour, which may weigh from 50 to 100 lb., or even more. This tumour may be simple or cancerous. In the simple, the parts composing the tumour are natural struc- tures, only greatly hypertrophied ; in the cancerous, the solid intra- cystic parts are composed of cancer tissue. In some cases a cancerous growth may be superadded to a previously-existing simple tumour. The number of cysts may be one, or almost infinite, there being in the latter case a vast number of smaller ones developed in the inter- stices, and projecting into the cavities, of the larger ones. They may be thin and flexible like bladder, or thick and semicartilaginous. The contained fluid may be clear aud transparent as pure water, or thick and ropy, from the presence of a peculiar extractive matter; or may be of a deep coflfec colour from the presence of broken-down colouring matter of the blood; or opake, fi om the presence of the matters shown in the preceding page. The ovarian fluid contains much less albumen than blood serum does, and no phosphate of soda, or but very little.* The diagnosis from ascites has been spoken of already. From preg- nancy it must be distinguished by its history and duration, and es- pecially by the physical condition of the uterus, as ascertained by ex- amination. The diagnosis is sometimes more difficult than might be thought. Supposing a woman who has a right to be pregnant and believes heiself so. There may be enough enlargement of breasts and stomach derangement, the menses may have been just so long absent, and the movement of a small hard cyst within a larger one may be so like the gravitation of the foetus in utero as to deceive a careless prac- titioner. The state of the os uteri, the absence of the fcetal heart- sounds, and the duration of the case will, however, enlighten him. But for all those points we must i-efer to special writers, our concern being only with the treatment by operation. * Analysis by Dr. G. 0. Rees, quoted in Dr. A. Farre's article Uterus, in Todd's Cycloptedia.