OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 756 stances of the case, and can rarely be admissible about the centre of the palm. Yet if the blood spirts out with a jet, the exploration may be jus- tifiable, as it would thus be shown that the bleeding orifice was near. Otherwise (following the practice of Mr, Pollock at St. George's) pressure should be made by a horse-shoe tourniquet on the brachial artery as for aneurysm, and the wound be left bare to the air. Or, see page 335. SECTION III.—THE AORTA, ILIACS, AND THEIR BRANCHES. I. The External Iliac Artery is not unfrequently tied for aneurysm, high up in the femoral. The process for tying it, as well as the internal or common iliac, is to cut threugh the ['abdomina). muscles and fascia transversalis, and to get behind the peritonaeum without wounding it, so as to reach the point desired. Before any of these operations, the bowels should be well cleared. The bifurcation of the aorta corresponds as nearly as possible with a spot a finger's breadth below and to the left of the navel. From this point, a line drawn to the middle of Poupart's ligament, wiW coincide with the course of the ihac; the upper third to the common, the lower two-thirds to the external iliac. The common iliac extends from the bifurcation of the aorta, on or about the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, to the sacro-iliac syn- chondrosis. Its length may vary extremely in different subjects: it is usually two inches; but if the aorta bifurcates higher up than usual, or if the common iliac bifurcates lower than usual, its length may be inci'eased to 3*5 inches. Under the opposite conditions, it may be only .75 inch. Each common iliac is covered by peritouseura, and crossed near its bifurcation by the ureter ; each, too, is in close relation with its vein ; but in this respect there is a difference, for both left and right common iliac veins pass behind the right iliac artery to reach the cava, and the artery is closely connected to them both. Whereas the left common iliac artery has a slight space between it and its vein, which lies below and internal to it. The superior hsemorrhoidal artery also crosses the left common iliac artery. The external iliac artery runs in the course we have described, along the inner border of the psoas muscle, having its vein on the inner side and below. The genito-crural nerve, which pierces] the psoas, lies on it for a short distance, and there is a chain of lym- phatic glands surrounding both artery and vein, which, if enlarged, may give great trouble. This artery is invested by the peritonasura, and crossed high xip by the rectum on the left side, and by the ileum on the right, and occasionally by the ureter. Low down, near Poupart's ligament, it is crossed by the spermatic cord in the, male, and the round ligament in the female. In both, it is here crossed by the cir- cumflex iliac vein, and gives off the deep epigastric and circumflex iliac branches. Occasionally, the obturator branch arises from the epigastric or external iliac, and crosses down to the inner side of the latter to the thyroid hole.