188 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. uker, soft chancre, syphiloid, local syphilis or non-infecting sore. This is a highly contagious suppurating ulcer, capable of being inoculated in almost unlimited succession, on the same patient;—but according to the best observations, it is a local disease; it produces an ulcer vvhere- ever inoculated, with probably suppurating bubo, i.e., suppuration of the nearest lymphatic ganglion, but no secondary symptoms. 3rdly. The true syphilis, true chancre, Hunterian chancre, hard, indurated, or infecting sore. This does not usually produce such formidable primary or immediate symptoms as the soft chancre. Mr. Henry Lee* has de- monstrated that it does not yield pus, but generally only epithelium and serum ; there may be no loss of substance at all, rather the con- trary ; the constructive may surpass the destructive element in the sore. (See p. 69.) Whilst the "soft" chancre may stand as the type of a true spreading ulcer, the " hard '' may be a little raised hard patch, with epithelial hypertrophy, more like a small speck of psoriasis than an ulcer. It produces also, not a suppurating bubo, but an indolent multiple enlargement of the cliain of nearest lymphatic ganglia, which rarely suppurate. That which distinguishes this third form is that it gives rises to a peculiar constitutional diathesis ;—when fully developed, it cannot be multipled by inoculation on the same patient; and it causes what are called secondary and tertiary, or constitutional symp- toms ; — that is, a general infection of the system, which was for- merly known as lues venerea, or confirmed pox, and which, as Dr.Wilks justly says, ought to be considered the real disease—the primary one being the mere point of introduction. Disputed Questions.—This will be a convenient place for consi- dering several disputed questions as to the history, origin, and nature of these diseases, and for referring the student to authors from whom he may obtain fuller information than our pages have room for. Disputes have arisen on the questions—1. Were venereal diseases known to the ancients? or are they peculiar to modern times? 2. If modem, were they imported from America? 3. Can any theory be framed as to their origin, and as to the number and nature of the poisons by which they are caused ? 1. The latest researches seem to show that the persons who contend that venereal diseases were known to the ancients, and those who take the opposite line, are each right and each wrong, in a certain sense. There can be no doubt but that gonorrhoea was well known in England in the middle ages, under the terms brenning, burning, ardor, arsura, &c. Yov example, in the regulations for the steios of the borough of South- wark dated 1430, it is ordained that no stewholder keep any woman within his house, that hath the syknesse of brenning. John Ardern, an eminent surgeon of the fourteenth century, defines brenning to be an inward heat and excoriation of the urethra. So also, some ulcers were known. Celsus mentions several varieties of ulcers on the penis, which are easily recognizable as the gangrenous, and phagedasnic. Guglielmus * Lectures on Syphilitic and Vaccino-Syphilitic Inoculations, 2nd edit. Lend. 1863.