112 EPITHELIOMA. The Clinical history of this disease is this. First, there may be a period of quiescence; the tumour remaining as an innocent wart for weel<s or years. But if it once begin to ulcerate, its course is one of constant progi-ess. The skin and subcutaneous tissues become more deeply and widely infiltrated, and consequently hardened and adherent; the nearest lymphatic ganglia enlarge and become the seats of similar deposit; and muscle, bone, and every other adjacent tissue is attacked. But whilst the deeper parts are enlarging, the surface becomes the seat of foul and extensive ulceration. It cracks and oozes a purulent or sanious fluid, which, mixing with the epidermis, dries into a scab. When this is detached, a wide ulcer is brought into view, and at last there is formed a deep irregular excavation in the centre, exuding a thin ichor, surrounded by fungous wai'ty growths, and resting on a base of hard adherent and infiltrated skin. Thus the entire lower lip may be destroyed; or the bladder, rectum, and vagina of the female may be converted into one huge cloaca. If excision be performed, the nearest lymphatic ganglia enlai-ge, and form a foul ulcer like the ori- ginal. The constitution may be apparently sound at first, and may continue so till it begins to be worn by the incessant discharge, the pain and irritation of the ulcerated surfaces, the absorption of fetid matter, and the interruption to various functions which ensues, especially if the disease be situated near the mouth, the anus, or the genito-urinary apparatus. Secondary epithelial deposits have been found in the liver, lungs, heart, and nerves. Causes.—]\Ien ai e more subject to this disease than women, and it is rare before 40 ;—but of its predisposing and exciting causes, little more is known than may be summed up in three statements ; viz.—1st, in some few instances, hereditary predisposition may fairly be assumed ; inasmuch as, in -^^^ instances, Mr. Paget found that other members of the patient's family had suffered from this disease or from cancer; and this number, as Mr. Paget observes, although small, is too large to be referred to chance. 2. Constantly repeated local irritation seems to have some small share in producing this disease ; it is generally believed that the smoking of short pipes is a cause of epithehoma of the lip, and that phymosis causes, or at least predisposes to, it within the prepuce. When it attacks the trunk or limbs, it is almost always at the site of some old scar, or ulcer. The frequency of the so-called chimney- sweepers' cancer of the scrotum in England, and the liability of chimney-sweepers to dry harsh warts, and to epithelioma on other parts besides the scrotum, are remarkable. 3. The existence of any simple wart or mole seems to be a sort of predisposing cause ; hence, whenever any such tumour exists, it should be carefully guarded fiom irritation, and if it begins to swell or be troublesome it should be en- tirely excised or destroyed. The parts most frequently affected are the lower lip, tongue, penis, scrotum, and vulva ; the back of the hand or foot; and, amongst in- ternal organs, the os uteri and larynx, and bladder. The warty growths from old scars, particularly on the lower extremities, are instances of