234 ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF BURS^. i jects in the palm of the hand, and also above the wrist, but is bound down in the middle by the anterior annular ligament of the carpus. Considerable pain and weakness are caused by these swellings. When ganglion has lasted some time, or has been subjected to inflammation, the cyst becomes thickened, and the tumour loses its softness and transparency. The ordinary cause of ganglion is a twist or strain of some kind, or irritation from pressure or friction, or from a rheuma- tic change in the lining membrane and its secretions, or some unknown ' constitutional tendency. Treatment.—(1.) The best plan of treating recent non-inflamed ganglion seems to be, either to burst it by pressure with the thumbs, or to puncture it with a grooved needle, or else to make a subcutaneous incision into the sac ; that is, to introduce a needle with a cutting point, and to turn the point against the mside of the sac and divide it, with- out, however, making a larger wound in the skin than is necessary to introduce the needle. The object of these operations is to empty the sac, and form an aperture by which its contents may henceforth pass into the cellular tissue and be absorbed. As soon as it is emptied, constant pressure should be applied by means of compress and bandage, which may be wetted with cold lotion, if agreeable. (2.) If this plan fails, recourse may be had to blisters, friction with mercurial and other stimulating liniments, or Scott's ointment, F. 160, or the iodine paint, F. 89. (3.) In obstinate cases, if it is a bursa (as over the patella or olecranon), and has no connexion with the sheaths of tendons, it may be dissected out. (4.) But if the bursa is large or deeply seated, as ' over the angle of the scapula, it may be freely cut into and emptied, after which it will probably heal up. (5.) In obstinate cases, especially if the cyst is much thickened, a puncture may be made, and a few threads of silk, or a wire, be passed through the sac as a seton. This destroys the secreting power of the sac, and effects a radical cure, but the operation requires great discretion, as it may be dangerous to life. (6.) Ganglion of the flexors of the wrist should not be tampered with ^| incautiously. If an operation is necessary, Mr. Fergusson prefers a free H incision, as less dangerous than puncture. (7.) Mr. Wickham strongly ^ recommends the vapour bath, or local steam bath, as a means of getting rid of thickness and stiffness after these operations. Lastly, any rheu- matic or gouty tendency should be corrected by proper medicines.* XIII. Acute Inflammation of Burs^ is most frequently exem- plified in the affection called the housemaid's knee, which is aii acute inflammation of the bursa that intervenes between the patella and skin, common enough in that class of females, from kneeling on hard damp JjAil stones. It causes very great pain, swelling, and fever ; it may be dis- ^ll tinguished from acute inflammation of the synovial membrane of the 'jHI knee-joint, by observing that the swelling is very superficial, and in front of the patella, which is obscured by it; whereas in inflammation of the synovial membrane of the knee, the patella is thrown forwards, ^l|f and the swelling is most prominent at the sides. * See an abstract of a paper by Coulson, in Ranking, xiv. 279.