659 LITHOTOMY. is introduced into the bladder, the second external staff is fitted iii; its short branch perforates the skin and falls into the gi-oove of the short limb of the first staff, and so the road from the skin into the bladder is unmistakable.* The late M7\ Avery constructed a most ingenious instrument, by means of which a baby might perform lithotomy. A staff introduced into the bladder contained machinery, so tliat by turning a handle, a trocar was made to pierce the perinajum from within ; thus making it impossible to miss the bladder. This will come into use when female surgeons cut for the stone. After-Treatment.—The surgeon—especially if the stone has been crushed, or if there is reason to suspect more than one—makes certain by means of the sound, or by syringing the bladder, that eveiy fragment has been removed. Mr. Fergusson introduces a sup- pository of morphia, before the patient is removed to his bed. The patient should lie on his back with his shoulders elevated ; a napkin should be applied to the perinasum to soak up the urine, and the bed be protected by oilcloth. Some surgeons introduce a large gum elastic canula through the wound into the bladder for it to flow through for the first twenty-four hours. If not, the surgeon should introduce his finger after a few hours, to clear the wound of coagula. Pain must be allayed by opium—the bowels be kept open with castor-oil—the wound be kept perfectly clean—the diet be nourishing—and then, in favourable cases, the urine begins to flow by the urethra in about one week (sometimes in three or four days), and the wound heals completely in four or Ave. Complications.—1. Severe licemorrhage may proceed at the time of the operation, or after it, from thepudic, prostatic, or bulbous arteries if wounded. If the bleeding orifice cannot be secured, it must be com- pressed as long as may be necessary with the finger. A general venous or arterial oozing must be checked by filling the wound firmly with lint or sponge—the tube being then indispensable; and by ice applied to the perinseum, or lower part of the abdomen. Care should be taken that blood does not accumulate in the bladder. This may be suspected if the patient is pale and exhausted, and must be combated by injections of cold water, to make the bladder contract. Sloughing of the areolar tissue, a result of a hasty operation, is indicated by heat and pain about the neck of the bladder ; heat of the skin and sleepiness, followed by a rapid jerking intermittent pulse—hiccup—the belly tympanitic, the countenance anxious, and the other signs of irritative or typhoid fever. To be treated by hip-baths, wine and bark, thoroughly opening the wound with the finger, and, if necessary, laying the wound into the rectum, so that the urine and fetid discharge may escape. 3. Sim- ple peritonitis ; pain and tenderness extending from the bladder over the abdomen, must be treated as directed at p. 545. 4. Pyosmia, see p. 64. II. Central Lithotomy.—The bilateral operation is performed by making a curved incision, with the convexity upwards, from * See Hutchinson's paper, Med. Times And Gaz., Feb. 21st, 1857; and Corbett ib., Dec. 8th, 1858,