663 EPISPADIAS. forming the edge of the prepuce, at equal distances. But the author has seen unsatisfactory results from stingy operations. II. Paraphymosis is said to exist when a tight prepuce is pulled back over the glans, constricting it, and causing it to twell. Treatment.—The surgeon first compresses the glans, well oiled and covered with a bit of lint, in the fingers of one hand, so as to squeeze the blood out of it, then pushes it back with that hand, whilst he draws the prepuce forwards with the other. If this fjiils, the constricting part of the prepuce must be divided with a curved-pointed bistoury. III. Cancer of the Penis is rare. That which is commonly called cancer, is epithelioma, which generally begins as a warty excres- cence on the inner surface of the prepuce. It generally occurs to elderly persons, who have had phymosis. The disease, left to itself, follows the ordinary course. After a time ulceration commences. Whilst one part is perishing, fresh warty growths sprout up and invade the rest of the organ ; ulceration spreads with its fetid dis- charge ; there is immense irritation with the urine; the morbid growths strike root into the corpora spongiosa ; the glands in the groin are alfected, and the patient dies miserably. This disease may be combined with cancer; it may be complicated with syphilis ; it may, in its earlier stages, be identical with, or indis- tinguishable from, vascular warts, or condyloma, if ulcerated. The rule hence deducible is, that free and early extirpation should be per- formed in all doubtful cases of papillary excrescences, and that if the disease return, the part should be amputated. Statistical results are here impossible without microscopic examination; but the general ex- perience of surgeons may be expressed by the words of Fergussou: "that if certain sores which may be termed pseudo-cancerous were treated by excision at an early date, there would be a better result than surgery can yet boast of;" but that when the disease has obtained a firm footing, a temporary respite is all that amputation can give. IV. Amputation of the Penis.—An assistant steadies and com- presses the root of the organ ; then the surgeon stretches it out with one hand, and cuts it off with one sweep of a bistoury. Care must be taken that too much of the skin of the prepuce is not left, as it con- stitutes an impediment to the passage of the urine afterwards. It is better also to slope off the incisions opposite to the urethral canal so as to leave the spongy body a little longer than the cavernous, with a spout-like end. The urethral wall should then be slit up a little way, and the mucous membrane stitched back to the preputial skin, so as to counteract the tendency to contraction which the opening of the urethra always shows after this operation. Bleeding vessels are now to be tied, and cold to be applied, and after three or four days a piece of bougie is to be introduced into the orifice of the urethra, and to be retained there during the cicatrization. V. Epispadias.—As the ha^mapophyses of the foremost vertebra in the cranium and the soft parts covering them, may be ill developed.