6 ACUTE TETANUS. muscles of the glottis ;—if it has lasted some days without increasing materially in severity ;—if it is sensibly mitigated by the remedies em- ployed ;—if the pulse is not much accelerated ;—if the patient sleeps ; —'and if he has been subject to it before in an intermittent form. On the other hand, the prospect will be unfavourable, if the spasms con- tinually increase in severity, and especially if they affect the muscles of the glottis. Diagnosis.—Tetanus may be distinguished from hydrophobia by the spasms being continuous, and by the patient being in general sensible, and calm to the last;—whereas in hydrophobia, there are fits of gene- ral convulsions with perfect intermissions, and the patient is mostly delirious. Inflammation of the spinal cord, or of its membranes, may be distinguished by the pain in the back and fever, and by the para- plegia and coma which supervene in most cases. Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances that have been found in different oases are as follow: —Increased vascularity of the mem- branes and substance of the spinal cord, with or without effusion of serum ;—more rarely the same appearances may be found in the cranium ;—flakes of cartilage and spicula of bone deposited in the mem- branes of the spinal cord;—vascularity of the nerves leading from the wounded part;—of the mucous membrane of the stomach ; and of the sympathetic ganglia;—and congestion of the lungs. But there is not one of these morbid changes that is constantly, and except the first, there is not one of them that is even frequently, found. The muscles are extremely rigid after death, and ecchymosed or ruptured in many parts ;—the blood is mostly uncoagulated. Causes.—Tetanus may be caused by wounds and external injuries of every description, but especially by lacerated and punctured wounds of the hands and feet, gun-shot wounds, compound fractures, com- pound dislocation of the thumb, and wounds irritated by foreign matters, or in which nerves are exposed. Mr. Morgan knew it even caused by a blow with a schoolmaster's ferule; but it is very rarely caused by clean simple incisions. The period at which it may come on after an injury is very uncertain. Sometimes it occurs very quickly, if the patient is predisposed to it. Sometimes it seems to be induced by the great pain and irritation of a wound during its inflammatory state: but the most common period is, when the wound is nearly healed. It seems probable that some concurrent or predisposing cause, in addition to an external injury, is required to produce tetanus. Of such causes, the best established are, 1st, an irritated state of the bowels, from retained faeces;* and, 2ndly, exposure to draughts of cold air, or * For cases arising from intestinal irritation, vide Med. Gaz. vol. i. p. 646; Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 459; Ibid. vol. vii. p. 474, et seq.; Abernethy, Lectures on Surgery, London, 1835, p. 23; Travers, Further Inquiry concerning Constitutional Irritation, London, 1835, p. 397 ; Fournier-Pescay, Die. de Sc. Med. Paris, 1821, vol. Iv. p. 9; Wincelslai Trnka de Krzowitz, Commentarius de Tetano Vindobonice, 1777 ; Dictionnaire de Medecine et Chirurgie Pratiques, Paris, 1836, Art. Tetanos; B. Gooch. Chirurglcal Works, Lond. 1792, vol. ii.