795 STUMPS. branches. The ends of this incision are connected by a second semi- lunar one across it into the ankle-joint, which is to be held with the foot extended. When the front of the joint is thus laid open, the late- ral ligaments are divided ; and then the posterior part of the capsule. Now with a narrow saw (such as Butcher's, p. 771) the os calcis is sawn through, from behind forwards and downwards. Then the mal- leoli are separated from the anterior flap, and sawn off, and a thin slice of the tibia if diseased. Lastly, the cut surface of the os calcis is brought into contact with the tibia; and the wound united with sutures. A very handy method of doing this operation is described by Pirrie, of Aberdeen. After the transverse cut across the heel, the saw is at once applied, and the os calcis divided from below upwards and backwards. The anterior cross-cut is then made a little above the ankle-joint, and the malleoli sawn off without opening the joint. The two cuts are then connected at their posterior corner by dividing the tendinous and ligamentous structures behind the joint. A very neat stump may be thus made very expeditiously. SECTION XIII.—AFFECTIONS OF STUMPS. I. It sometimes happens that the flesh shrinks away from the end of the bone, which becomes white and dry, and finally exfoliates. The nitric acid lotion is the best application. II. Protrusion of the bone is a very awkward circumstance. It not only greatly retards the healing of the stump, but produces a cica- trix which is thin, red, constantly liable to ulcerate, and unable to bear the least pressure or friction. The cause of the conical stump, as it is technically called, is generally a want of skin and muscle sufficient to cover the end of the bone. Sometimes, however, it arises from spas- naodic retraction of the muscles, especially if they have not been properly supported by bandages during the cure. The remedy is simple; the bone must be shortened. This may be done in slight cases by making a longitudinal incision over the bone on the side opposite the vessels, and sawing off a sufficient portion of it, removing, at the same time, any diseased portion of the cicatrix. But if the projection is considerable the entire end of the stump must be amputated. III. Neuralgia of the stump is another very untoward event. It sometimes arises because the truncated extremities of the nerves (which after amputation always swell and become bulbous) adhere to the cica- trix, so as to be subject to constant compression and tension. Some- times, however, it is entirely independent of any morbid state of the extremities of the nerves, but arises from some irritation in their course, or from some irritation, centric or excentric, of the spinal cord. Some- times, again, no local cause whatever is detectable ; and the pain is evidently connected with an hysterical state of the system. In any case the symptoms are extreme irritability and tenderness, paroxysms of violent neuralgic pain, and spasms and twitchings of the muscles,