680 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. Mr. Listei's, one hole ; the side grooved. Perhaps, after all, if the edges be thoroughly vivified, and accu- rately brought together by thread sutures, it suffices. After the operation, a short metallic catheter, curved like S, com- municating with an ox-gut or elastic urinal, should be retained in the bladder, so that no urine may accumulate there. The patient should lie on one side, turning rather over towards the face; cold water be oc- casionally injected into the vagina ; opium be given in the dose of a grain at bed-time, and another once or twice more in the day; and the wound should not be examined, nor the sutures be disturbed, nor the bowels be opened, till the fifth or sixth day. Opium is most necessary: in one case, spite of it, the author was foiled by spasm of the bladder, which diove out the catheter, and sent urine gushing through the wound. To provide for cases in which there is extensive loss of substance, M. Jobei t de Lamballe detaches the vagina from its attachment to the anterior part of the neck of the womb, and so draws it down that there may be no strain on the stitches, or the vaginal tube may be split up fi om the vesical, and the split edges be brought together.* IV. Recto-Vaginal Fistula must be treated at first by cleanli- ness and mild laxatives. If after a time the aperture does not close, it must be treated as in the last case. V. Laceration op Perineum during labour, if up to, but not through the anus, if the patient use extreme cleanliness, will generally heal, so as to give little or no subsequent inconvenience. Complete laceration of the perinceum into the anus is attended with distressing incontinence of faaces, and is prev^ented from healing by the action of the sphincter. Hence it is necessary to divide the sphincter on each side of the laceration, then to sew together the edges of the laceration, and to prevent the new wounds from uniting, by placing a few threads of lint in them, until the laceration has united. If possible it should be done at once; if not, the operation must be delayed till the lochia have entirely ceased. Then the patient being chloroformed, and placed in the lithotomy position, the opposite surfaces of the lacerated parts * See some observations by R. Druitt, Lancet, 1852, vol. ii., p. 576. Marion Sims, quoted in Ranking, vol. xv. Jobert de Lamballe, Gaz, des Hop., Oct. 16,, 184 9. Traits des Fistules Vesico-uterines, &c., Paris, ]t>52.