> CYSTIC TUMOURS. 100 cyst itself is composed of fibrous tissue, and is often lined with epithe- lium. The contained fluid may be serum, pale or yellow, or tinged with bile or blood, or pei-haps ropy or honey-like, and containing abundance of crystals of chloresterine. Or, lastly, it may be colloid matter, yellow stuff' of the consistence of the vitreous humour, or of half-melted calf's-foot jelly. II. Sanguineous Cvsts, containing fluid blood, are most common in the neck. They probably arise from the partial obliteration of nsevi, of which these cysts, formed of distended veins, are the remains. Treatment.—This, and the preceding kind, sometimes heal and col- lapse after simple puncture, sometimes they require to be dissected out. III. Synovial Cysts, or Ganglia. See Part IV., Chap. III. IV. Gland Cysts are formed by the obstruction of excretory ducts, or follicles of glands, or by the abnormal development of portions of glands without ducts. Under this extensive division we may include cutaneous cysts, or wens; which are formed by the obstruction, or by the misplaced development of follicles, whose inner surface secretes cuticle and subaceous matter, with, perhaps, hair ; and such cysts are found, not only under the skin, and in the ovaries, but in the skull, the chest, and many other parts. Teeth (which, it will be remembered, are parts of the dermal, or exo-skeletou) are also found in these cysts in the ovaries, as well as in cysts attached to the jaws. Cysts in the vicinitv of the testicle, containing spermatic filaments, or in the breast, containing milk ; the cysts foi med in mucous membranes, and ranula, may be classed under this head. The contents of these cysts, which at first may be presumed to be identical with the natural secretions of the parts in which they are formed, become greatly altered by time. Solid curdy masses; viscid honey-like fluid ; or colourless pellucid mucus, are found in different instances. V. Compound Cystic Tumours ; such as occur in the ovaries, and in the villi of the chorion ; formed, by the exaggerated development into cysts, of the cells of which these structures mainly cousibt. VI. Proliferous Cystic Tumours {Sero-cys'tic Sarcoma) are com- posed of cysts, having solid fibro-plastic or glandular growths project- ing into them. (See the Chapter on the Female Breast.) They may originate in two modes,—either as tumours, in which cysts are after- wards developed; or as cysts, to which the solid growth is superadded afterwards. In either case, the history may be divided into three stages. —First, there is the formation of cysts, possibly single ; usually very numerous. Secondly, there is the growth into the cysts, from some part of their walls, of vascular tumours, composed of fibro-plastic cells, or else of rudimentary gland structure. The intracystic growths in either case enlarge and fill the cavities ; and then the third stage arrives, in which the growths, having filled the cysts, burst through, enlarge, distend the skin, cause it to ulcerate, and then protrude through it in the form of bleeding fungous granulations. The most frequent seats of this disease are the mammary and thyroid glands: but it has been found in the lip, the prostate gland, and in the