176 DISSECTION WOUNDS. 3. In other cases the wounded finger inflames violently, and sup- purates or sloughs; or the diffuse inflammation begins at the wrist, and extends up the arm, or an attack of cutaneous erysipelas accompanies the mischief in the subcutaneous tissue. 4. In a fourth class, inflammation and abscess of the lymphatic ves- sels and glands may be superadded. Termination and Consequences.—If the case do not terminate fatally at an early period, extensive and foul collections of matter form in the parts that have swelled; and abscesses continue to gather under the skin, or between the muscles of the trunk and limbs : and from these the patient may slowly sink ;—or, if he survive, his existence may be a mere burden ; one or more of the fingers may perish by gan- gi'ene, the arm may remain stiff and useless, or the seeds of consump- tion or dropsy may be left in the system. Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances are those of the various grades of diffuse cellular inflammation. The following may be quoted as a fair description of an advanced stage.* The cuticle covering the affected side of the trunk, vesicated and wrinkled ;—the cutis mottled and gangrenous in patches;—the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in some parts distended with serum, in others, softened and turgid with pus ; the tissue between the muscles of the trunk, as well as that which separates the different muscular fasciculi, also softened and puru- lent ;—the muscular fibres, of a dirty yellow colour, and softened ;—the axillary glands enlarged, but not suppurating;—the axillary artery and nerves healthy;—but the veins (especially the smaller branches) dirty red, and softened;'—the brachial and median-cephalic veins of the wounded arm, slightly red, but the fore-arm healthy ; and no connec- tion whatever to be discovered between the abrasion on the finger and the morbidpatis in the axilla;—the pleura of the afi'ected side greatly inflamed ;—the lung covered with lymph, and much serum effused into the cavity of the chest.f Treatment.—This is identical with that of erysipelas and pysemia. (See p. 67.) The indications clearly are, to eliminate the poison from the blood ; to support the strength ; and to relieve pain and promote the discharge of pus or sloughs. First purify the blood by a dose of calomel and by enemata, bearing in mind the experiments of Gaspard and Cruveilhier, in which dogs, into whose veins putrid pus had been injected, recovered on passing black and fetid evacuations.J The thirst must be quenched with lemonade, soda-water^ and effervescing draughts ; beef-tea, and other forms of nourishment, be liberally given; wine, or brandy, or beer, be administered in sufficient quantity to support the pulse ; opium, to render the patient unconscious of his severe pain. This should be given in a full dose at bed-time, and in smaller ones * Abridged from the case of Mr. Young, in Duncan's paper in the Edinburgh Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. Quoted also in Travers, op. cit. + Dr. Law, in a valuable paper in the Dub, Med. Journal, Nov. 1839, gives several cases of glanders and diffuse cellular inflammation mistaken for acute rheumatism. t Quoted in Ferguson on Puerperal Fever, p. 54.