310 DISLOCATIONS OF THE JAW. muscles as possible, and should be aided by gentle rotation and such other movements as may help to dislodge the dislocated part. After reduction, leeches, fomentations, and purging must be used, if required, to prevent inflamro,ation, and the joint should be kept at rest till any laceration of its ligaments may have healed, otherwise the dislocation may be perpetually recurring. Dislocations should always be reduced as quickly as possible, before the patient has recovered from the shock of the injury, and before the muscles have had time to contract and fix the bone in its new situation. The patient should be put under the influence of chloroform, in order to prevent involuntary resistance of the muscles ; a much safer thing than the bleeding, the half-grain doses of tartai'-emetic, and the hot bath that were formerly prescribed. Compound Dislocation is a dangerous accident, because of the actual synovial inflammation, rapid ulceration of cartilage, and violent constitutional disturbance, with which it is liable to be followed. The necessity of excision or amputation will depend on precisely the same contingencies as in compoimd fracture :—old age; bad constitution ; shattering of the bone; extensive bruising or laceration of ttie integu- ments, so that the wound cannot be closed ; laceration of large blood- vessels, which will often require amputation or excision : as a rule ex- cision is to be preferred to amputation in these cases. If the limb is to be saved, the dislocation miust be reduced ; if the end of the bone protrude through the skin, and render reduction difficult, it must be sawn off, or the aperture must be slightly dilated ; the wound must then be closed, and covered with a piece of lint dipped in blood ; and the case be treated as a wounded joint. Dislocation and Fracture.—Supposing the femur or humerus to be dislocated and fractured also, Sir A. Cooper dii-ects the fractured part to be first well secured in splints and bandages, and then the dis- location to be reduced without delay. Because if the dislocation is not attended to till after the fracture has united, the difficulty of reducing it will be very much increased through the lapse of time; and, perhaps, the bone may be broken again during the forcible extension that will be necessary. Congenital Dislocation is the result of original want of deve- lopment, or of intra-uterine disease, and is mostly incurable. SECTION X.—PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. I. Dislocation of the Jaw may be caused by a blow on the chin, wiien the mouth is wide open, or by spasm of the external ptery- o-oid muscles, by which the articular condyles ai'e drawn over the transverse root of the zygomatic process. Symptoms.—The mouth fixedly open, the patient unable to shut it ; speech and deglutition almost impossible ; saliva dribbling away ; the chin protruding (brwards ; and the condyle felt to project unnaturally under the zygomatic process, whilst the finger sinks into the parotid