243 DISEASES OF THE BONES. III. Chronic Inflammation of bone is most frequently the re- sult of some constitutional disorder, and generally attacks several bones simultaneously. It is denoted by slow enlargement, tenderness, weight, and pain, increased at nights. If caused by injury, it may lead to necro- sis ; but in general it produces no organic change, save irregular en- largement. Treatment.—The general health should be improved by change of air, alteratives, and tonics, especially Plummer's pill, or hyd. c. creta, in small doses at night, F. 63, 64, and the iodide of potassium, with sarsaparilla. Of the iodide of potassium, Mr. Stanley observes, that it never fliils to assist in the removal of inflammation from bone, espe- cially when the periosteum or medullary membrane is involved, is in favour of small or moderate doses, such as gr. ii.—iii. thrice daily. F. 94, kc. The local measures are, repeated leechings and fomentations, so long as there is tenderness or much pain; with Scott's ointment, F. 160, or blisters or iodine paint subse- quently. IV. Inflammation of the Perios- teum (or Periostitis) generally occurs on the subcutaneous aspect of thinly-covered bones; especially the tibia, ulna, clavicles, and cranium. Its chief causes are, 1st, a syphilitic taint, in w^hich case it produces very painful oval swellings, called nodes, through an infiltration of lymph and serum into the periosteum, or between it and the bone. 2ndly. Rheumatism, especially in persons who have taken mercury to excess. 3rdly. Scrofula. In the two latter cases there is usually produced a swelling of the periosteum of the entire circumference of one or more bones. The scrofulous form attacks children, and is accompanied with remarkably little pain. If acute or mismanaged, periostitis may lead to suppuration, and caries or exfoli- ation ; but more frequently it causes merely a superficial deposit of bone, or an expan- sion of the surface of the bone. Periostitis occurring near a joint, is apt to involve the synovial membrane. Treatmerit.—For the acute, leeches, fomentations, purgatives, Dover's powder at bed-time, and colchicum in doses of TYLxx'^ of the wine every six hours ; or gr. iii. of the iodide of potassium at the same interval. If the case be of syphilitic character, it may be expedient to administer a regular course of mercury, or of the iodide of potassium, when the acute symptoms are passing off. For the chrouic, the same