705 ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. for the first two or three days after an operation, for the purpose of tranquillizing the nervous system, and his success proved the benefit of the plan. V. Air in Veins.—The entrance of large quantities of air into a vein is a most dangerous accident, that has sometimes occurred during the extir])ation of tumours from the neck or axilla. A large vein being cut across, whose coats adhere to some firm textures around, so that they cannot collapse, a sort of bubbling sucking noise is suddenly heard, the patient instantly faints, and generally dies soon afterwards. On examination the right auricle is found distended with frothy blood. If any such sound should be perceived during an operation, the sui geon should instantly put his fingers on the spot that it proceeds from, and the patient, if taint, should be kept in the recumbent position with the head low, and should be well plied with brandy. The air has no noxious properties in itself, and if introduced slowly, in small quantity, does no harm ; lai ge quantities prove fatal by interfering mechanically with the action of the heart.* CHAPTER II. MEAKS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. History.—So terrible is the idea of the surgeon's knife, that it cannot be wondered at that many attempts have been made, at various times since surgery was first cultivated, to diminish the tortures which it inflicts, both in apprehension and in reality. Dr. Simpsonf brings forward quotations .from Dioscorides, Pliny, and Apuleius, authors of the time of the Roman empire, showing that in that age the root of the mandragore or mandrake [atropa matidragora), steeped in wine, was given to cause insensibility (Trotetz/ auaKrOrjcrlav) in persons who were to be cut or cauterized; and that whilst the influence of this remedy lasted, a limb might be cut off without any pain or sensation. The seeds of the rocket {eruca) infused in wine were taken, according to Pliny, by criminals about to undergo the lash, in order to induce a certain recklessness or hardihood of feeling. The wine mingled with myrrh, which was offered to our Saviour before his Passion, furnishes an instance familiar to eveiy one. The bang, or extract of Indian hemp, is used in India for the same purpose at the pre^.ent day. Di'. Simpson has shown further that the inhalation of narcotic vapours was used as a preparatory to surgical operations in the thirteenth century. So far concei'ning the ancients. The modern history of anaesthetics may be said to begin at the end of the eighteenth century, when Mr, * For the best account of these curious cases, refer to Sir C. Bell's Practica 1 Essays, Lend., 1841. •j- Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, December, 1847; Simpson's Obstetric Works, 1856, vol. ii. D 2 Z