HYPERiEMIA. 18 The causes of atrophy and degeneration ai-e—1st. Disuse, or want of exercise, which is sure to cause any organ to w^aste. 2ndly. Diminished supply of blood may in some cases cause atrophy, as in others it causes ulceration or gangrene ; but an organ whose vitality is active is almost sure to attract blood enough to itself, if there is no utter physical obstacle to the current. 3rdly. Deficiency in the blood of the materials necessary for healthy growth and nutrition of an organ is a third cause. This may be ex- emplified by tlie atrophy of bone and muscle when there is an insuffi- cient supply of food, or when the materials necessary for them are wasted by undue secretion. 4thly. Deficient vitality ; deficiency of that power by which every organ is enabled to maintain its growth, and to abstract from the blood the materials for its nutrition. This again may be caused by exhaus- tion ; by excessive fatigue ; by over use or abuse of a part; by disease, which has spoiled its tissue; and by injuries to the nervous centres or trunks supplying it. The treatment will be exemplified under the heads of atrophy of muscle and of bone. VI. Senile Decay.—As man is born for a limited term of life, so each separate part of his organism, when it has attained perfection and answered its appointed purposes, begins to show symptoms of decay;— thus giving us warning that death must occur sooner or later from mere inability of the organs any longer to carry on the processes of life, even if it be not hastened by violence or disease. Some of the changes which t;ike place in consequence of age, in the eye, the teeth, the pros- tate gland, and the bones, are subjects of surgical study, and will be detailed in the fourth part of this work. It must be added that when we speak of senile decay, we speak of a thing " not to be measuied by number of years," for some men at fifty aie in all respects older and worse in constitution than others who are thirty years their seniors. It must be added, likewise, that some instances of wearing out may occur at quite an early age, as, for ex- ample, the decay of the hair and teeth ; and that peculiar change in the veins which is known as varix, when they become distended and knotty from inability to support the column of blood contained in them.* CHAPTER II. HYPEREMIA. Hyperemia.—Although preternatural accumulation of blood plays a most important part in that series of phenomena known by the term inflammation, yet it does not by itself constitute inflammation; and we have devoted this short chapter to the subject per se, in order that * For fuller information on the subjects of this chapter, consult Mr. Paget's Lectures, and Andral's Pathological Anatomy, trans, by West and Townsend.