641 GRAVEL. oxalic generally indicate feeble powers of assimilation, and exhaustion of the nervous system. The phosphatic, when not arising fi-om changes in the bladder, usually indicate low dyspepsia. Any deposit may exist occasionally in small quantity unnoticed ; it is the constant or abun- dant presence which is the important evidence of disease. When a patient is secreting the red crystalline gravel, or has, to use the vulgar phrase, a fit of the gravel, he usually complains of great pain in the loins and bladder ; frequent desire to make water; and aching of the testicles and hips. Sometimes these symptoms are attended witli great feverishness; sometimes with mere languor and dyspepsia. When oxalate of lime is abundant, the whole urinary organs are apt to suffer extremely; with frequent micturition ; aching in the loins and bladder; great ii'ritation of the genital organs; often these symptoms are combined with peculiar lassitude, tits of headache, sour perspira- tion, nettle-rash, extreme despondency, and other signs of obstinate in- digestion, and of a disordered condition of the blood. Aching of the eye- balls has been often noticed by the author. Treatment.—The treatment of urinary disorders has of late years been made too dependent on a superficial chemical examination of the urine ; it being the custom to give acids if the urine is alkaline, and so forth, without sufficient regard to other circumstances. The author stated in an edition of this work published in 1841, that this summary method of treatment was essentially erroneous. Subsequent experience has confirmed his ideas on this point; and he would advise his readers, under all circumstances, to treat the general health on rational princi- ples, and leave the urine to take care of itself. The first thing to notice, is the patient's blood-making powers, and his habits. Because if lusty and red-lipped, and a high liver, and troubled with lithic gravel of no long duration, he will generally be speedily relieved by full purgation ; by reduced diet, warm baths, and liq. potassge in drachm-doses thrice daily after meals. The diathesis will be kept at bay likewise by habits of early rising, by exercise enough to make the skin eliminate acid ; by great temperance in meat and beer or wine; by freely eating fresh vegetables, and especially cabbage, water-cresses, and fruit, provided always that they cause no inconve- nience to the stomach ; and by occasional effervescing, alkaline, or saline draughts—such as lemon-juice, potass-water, Seltzer-water, or F. 58, 60, HI, 70, 72, 73, &c. Hot air or vapour baths may be of use. But far different must be the treatment if the urinary deposit, be it what it may, is created, not by an excess of material in the system, but by feebleness of the powers which ought to convert the food into healthy fiesh and blood, or by overwork of mind or body. In these cases the prime object must be to strengthen the digestion ; and the means are the following—1. It is often beneficial to begin the cure by freeing the liver and bowels of black offensive scybalous motions, by a grain or two of calomel, with colocynth, or with some tonic purge, to carry it off, F. 37, 41, 50, &c. The motions should be inspected, and the medicine be repeated at discretion till they are rendered healthy. D 2 T