291 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. cerates. In other severe, but more protracted cases, the membrane becomes thickened, pulpy, and highly vascular; granulations form on its surface and project like fringes into the cavity of the joint, and at the same time the cartilage ulcerates. Treatment.—In all cases arising from injury, the joint, or rather the whole limb, should be confined by a splint, so as to keep it perfectly motionless. This is indispensable ; for the joint cannot be kept motion- less without it. The best splint is very thick leather or pasteboard, which admits of being easily adapted to the surface of the joint when softened in warm water; but, during the acute stage, a long wooden splint, properly padded, should be arranged so that it may be fastened to the limb at some distance above and below, and so that it may not touch the joint itself. If the knee is the part affected, it should not be allowed to become bent on the thigh, or if it is already bent, it should be brought as nearly straight as possible. The other measures are leeches in abundance to the joint, or cupping near it; ice, evaporating lotions, or warm poppy fomentations, according to the patient's choice ; a good dose of calomel, followed by saline purgatives, till the motions are no longer dark and offensive : the treatment should be commenced by thorough purgation; then opiates at night to relieve pain. A warm poultice of camomile flowers, boiled till they are quite soft, or bran poultice, sprinkled with laudanum ; or cotton wool covered with oiled silk, will generally be found moie soothing than cold applications. Blisters are inapplicable till the acute stage is subsiding. A Saltej-'s swing (see Index), is a very valuable adjunct in treating acute in- flammation of the knee and ankle joints, and gives much ease to the patient. When the disease is manifestly connected with rheumatism—when it is attended with red sediment in the urine and acid perspirations, and affects several joints, and extends to the synovial sheaths of tendons, after due purgation, as described above, colchicnm should be adminis- tered every six hours (F. 69, &c.); if this fails, iodide of potassium (F. 95), with F. 72 at bed-time; when the fever subsides, guaiacum may be given. When there is a tendency to gout, and the patient complains of grind- ing, excruciating pain, as if the joint were torn asunder, the colchicum is also the main remedy. In syphilitic cases (which will be known by the patient's general history, by his wan, peculiar appearance, and most likely by the existence of papular or other eruptions, vide p. 209), mercurial fumigation may be tried when the acute symptoms have subsided ; but if it has, or if the constitution is broken down, recourse may be had to the iodide of potassium in doses of gr. iii. ter die, with a small dose of colchicum and opium at night; and sarsaparilla or cod- liver oil should be given in abundance. F. 82, 83. In all these cases warm baths, in which a quantity of carbonate of soda or potass has been dissolved, will probably be of service. II. Chronic Inflammation of the synovial membrane is charac- terised by swelling of the joint, of the same nature that attends the