i28 GENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS FROM CANCER. fluctuating protvusions, and the non-occurrence of any inoplications of the neighbouring glands. 7. Enlargement of the lymphatic glands may be distinguished from cancer by the circumstance, that if one only is affected, it presents a smooth, uniform, or lobulated surface; that it is not adherent; and that it is neither so hard as the hard, nor so soft as the soft cancer. If several glands are enlarged, they are not adherent to each other, nor connected by hard bands of indurated lymphatics; they do not increase at the same rate as the cancer does, nor affect the general health. 8. Tuberculosis differs from cancer in affecting by preference the lungs and lymphatic ganglia in young subjects ; whereas the eye and bones in the young, and the breast, womb, and stomach, in the old, are the favourite seats of cancer. Tuberculai- deposit may continue for any indefinite time, and may be perfectly eliminated by suppuration, or may undergo earthy transformation ; and the general health may improve in time: not so with cancer. The small cells of tubercle, destitute of nuclei and nucleoli, mixed with solid amorphous matter, not floating free in a special juice like those of cancer, and not readily and equally diffusible through water, ought not to be confounded with cancer cells. 9. Fibrous Tumours present a rounded, smooth, firm, elastic surface ; non-adherent, and not softer at some parts than at others; the neigh- bouring lymphatic glands are unaffected, and they may acquire large dimensions without serious cachexia. After extirpation, the naked eye will i-ecognise the white fibrous tissue, with few vessels, and no infil- trating juice containing cancer cells. 10. Enchondroma differs from cancer in the cii'cumscribed nature of the tumours, which leave the articulations and other neighbouring parts intact; in their smooth rounded surface; and in their not producing cachexia, even though multiple and of long duration. Microscopic analysis shows cartilage-cells embedded in a hyaline substance. But supposing that some of these cells are set free by the softening down o#' the intercellular substance, in which case they may have some resemr blance to cancer cells, or even that a portion of enchondroma is con- tained in a cancerous growth, a little attention will prevent error. 11. Lastly, the Fibro-plastic Tumour seems more nearly allied to cancer in development and clinical history than any other except epi- thelioma, and often closely resembles it in rapidity of growth. Yet it usually differs from it in having its surface legularly and uniformly lobulated, and of uniform consistence ; it is usually cii cumscribed and non-adherent, unless it has been subject to inflammation; it does not usually infiltrate other textures, nor affect the general health. In its microscopic elements, whether, as Lebert observes, it be of the soft gelatinous or of the red fleshy variety, there is an entire absence of cancer cells, and the constant existence of fibro-plastic cells, depicted at p. 24, and every series of forms between mere nuclei, and fibres elongated and fusiform. Yet it must be remembered that these tumours are ex- ceedingly apt to return after extirpation ; that possibly they