DISEASES OF THE BONES. 241 patient is observed to be out of health, emaciated, complaining of violent achings in the bones, and of very great feebleness and profuse perspirations. Then from a fall or some other slight injury, a bone breaks ; perhaps it unites again ; but afterwards bone after bone breaks from the slightest cause; the weakness increases, and the patient be- comes bedridden; and now, as the bones bend or break from the slightest influences, the chest and ribs become distorted to an almost inconceivable degree, and death at last occurs from exhaustion, or from tJie obstacle which the distorted limbs oppose to the action of the lungs. The fatal issue may not occur for several years, in the less severe cases. Softening of the bones of the pelvis in women is in- dicated by violent aching pains about the hips, and pain or difficulty in v/alking. Of the causes of this disease, nothing is known, and of its real nature just as little. It is evidently, however, not a mere atrophy. The ex- treme vascularity of the bones in the earlier stages of the affection, and the severe pain, render it probable that they ai e the seat of some morbid cell-growth. That the urine is loaded with phosphate of lime, which in a case related by Mr. Solly formed a renal calculus, is an interesting and intelligible point in the history of the disease. No available treatment is known, beyond common measures for supporting the strength and allaying pain.* SECTION III,—NEURALGIA IN BONE. The bones, like other parts, are subject to that severe and continuous pain which is known by the name neuralgia. The patients are gene- rally women, the part affected the condyles of the femur, or the head of the tibia or humerus. The characters which distinguish neuralgic pain have been already briefly described (p. 20), and will be further treated of in the Chapter on Diseases of the Nerves. SECTION IV.—INFLAMMATION AND SUPPURATION OF BONE AND PERIOSTEUM. I. Inflammation produces in bone the same changes that it does in the soft parts. In its slighter degrees it causes softening and swell- ing from enlargement of the channels which contain the blood-vessels, and from an opening out and greater porosity of the texture. This may be followed, in protracted chronic inflammations, by the fllling up of the expanded channels of the enlaigod bone, so that, instead of being enlarged and porous, it is enlarged and denser than natural. They who delight in hard words, may employ the term osteoporosis for the former, and osteosclerosis for the latter of these conditions. Severer degrees of inflammation may cause suppuration, softening, ulceration, and mortiflcation. The enlargements produced by gout and rheuma- * See a remarkable case of soflness of the bones, by Mr. H. Thompson, Med. Obs. and Injuries, vol. v. 1776 (the urine deposited a copious mortar-lilte sedi- ment); Solly, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvii.; Pagefs Lectures, i. 135 ; Dr. Robt. Lee's Midwifery, p. 18; Rokitansky, vol. iii,; Wedl's Pathological Histology. D R