CHLOROFOEM. 711 ened, and the whole surface, especially the face and eyes, becomes suf- fused with red. The current of ideas is vivid and not quite under control; fear is banished ; but thei e is perfect consciousness of all that is going on, and the severe pain of operations is still felt intensely; although the pain of disease as well as that part of suffering which de- pends on mental apprehension is relieved. In the second degree there is no longer perfect consciousness. The patient generally neither speaks nor moves, though it is still possible for him to do both if spoken to or roused, and he is in a condition of deep drovvsine.ss ; it may sometimes be called drunken-drowsiness. All the varieties, too, of intoxication may be displayed, according to the mental peculiarity of the patient. One man is noisy, and inclined to fight; another laughs at jokes of his own making; a w^oman may weep or talk of her husband or children. But these phenomena are not universal, and are of veiy short duration; ibr this degree soon passes into the next, if the inhalation be prolonged, or into the first, if it be discontinued. In the third degree, there is profoiind sleep ; all voluntaiy motion and sensation are at a standstill; the eye is suffused and turned up- wards, the pupil contracted, and the breathing slow, as in natural sleep. But yet in this degree, the eyelids wink if touched ; sneezing is excited by tickling the nostrils ; in tact, reflex movements are vividly performed, as they are in sleep; and though the patient lie unconscious, he is not yet sufficiently motionless for severe or prolonged surgical operations. The fourth degree, which may be termed perfect insensihility (or anossthesia, if a Greek term is better), is distinguished by the circum- stance, that in addition to the profound sleep of the third degree, reflex actions are no longer excited by the nerves of common sensation. The eyeball may be touched freely without winking ; the muscles are per- fectly relaxed; and it is the very beginning of this degree, which it is desirable to produce, for the commencement of surgical operations. The fifth degi-ee approaches the condition known as coma; it is marked by tendency of the pupil to dilate ; and slower breathing : if the quantity of vapour be increased, death may occur from coma. If this account of the increasing effects of chloroform be carefully perused, it will be seen that it belongs to the class of substances of which opium and the various preparations of alcohol are examples. It begins by affecting the mind and consciousness. In its smallest dose it stimulates, then disturbs, then suspends the mental operations. It next diminishes the power of the nerves in receiving and communi- cating, and of the brain in perceiving sensations, whether arising from causes within the body, or without; hence it diminishes or abolishes the perception, and the existence of pain. It further benumbs that power called the reflex function of the spinal cord ; the power by which the spinal cord, upon the production of any change in the nerves of sensation, puts into play the corresponding nerves of motion, and this quite automatically and independently of the will or consciousness.