747 THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. aneurysm of the innominata ;—and shows that his operation is superior to the hgature of the subclavian in the third part of its course, inas- much as half the current of blood through the aneurysm is obstructed; whereas by tying the subclavian only one-sixth is obstructed, because its chief branches are given off on the near side of the ligature.* II. The Right Subclavian Artery, in the first part of its course, that is to say, between its origin from the innominata and the scalenus muscle, has been tied for aneurysm in the second and third parts of its course, by an operation almost precisely similar to the fore- going ; but it is the most difficult operation in surgery, and the most unsuccessful. III. The Subclavian Artery, in the third part of its course, is about an inch and a quarter long, and passes from the scaleni muscles downwards and outwards under the clavicle to the lower border of the first rib, where it takes the name of axillary. Its depth will depend on the greater or less curve of the clavicle, the length of the neck, and the width and position of the shoulder, whether high or sloping. Above is the omi-hyoid muscle (posterior belly). Behind is the scalenus medius, with the first dorsal nerve intervening, and below the upper surface of the rib. In front are the skin, platysma, supraclaivicular nerves and vessels, cervical fascia, and areolar tissue of varied density. The clavicle and the subclavius muscle are also before it. The subclavian vein is on a plane anterior, but inferior and internal, and nearly concealed by the clavicle. It is here joined by the external jugular, by the posterior scapular, and by other small veins from the shoulder and the side of the neck, which sometimes form a large and intricate plexus. The brachial nerves are above and behind. Some of the irregularities in the subclavian artery are of practical interest. The artery may perforate the anterior scalenus, or lie in front of it, close to the subclavian vein. The vein has been met with accompanying the artery in its usual course between the scaleni. On the right side the artery may come from the back part of the innomi- nata. Very frequently (in half the number of cases) the third part of * Cases of aneurysm near the aortic arch, in which pressure cannot be used, nor the vessel tied, are those in which (if any) it may be expedient lo try Mr. Moore's plan of tilling the sac with iron wire. It is necessary that there "be no strong current through the sac. His instruments are " a straight short canula of thin silver, sharply pointed at one end, expanded at the other, and with its tube somewhat larger than is sufficient to give ready passage to the wire;'' and a thicker wire, large enough to fill the canula, to serve as a probe. The aneurysm is' punctured in its side ; the sac explored with a probe; then yard after yard of fine iron wire, just stiff enough to pass the canula without bending, is pushed in (26 yards were pushed in during one hour in Mr. Moore and Dr. Murchison's case) ; whilst being pushed in the canula must be gently moved, so that it may be distributed fairly through every part of the sac; when the sac is filled, the wire is cut off, and the end of it pushed right through the canula into the sac, that it may not remain in the wound, which, lastly, is closed by collodion. The first effect in the case quoted was cessation of pulsation in the sac; but after twenty-four hours rigors came on, and the patient died after four other days of great agony. See supra, p. 315, for the distinction between active and passive clot in anemysms. Mr. Moore and Dr. Murchison's case, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xlvii.