29 INFLAMMATION. " some new action set up in the blood." Vomiting is sometimes com- bined with it. Shivering is, as aforesaid, sometimes associated with actual intense coldness ; sometimes, though the patient feel chilly to himself, his skin may be hot and burning. It seems to indicate a de- composition of the blood, or an admixture with it of foreign matter. 2. The pulse is raised to 100, 120, or more. In some cases it is hard and wiry ; in others soft and jerking. 3. The respiration is also increased—to 25 or 30 in adults : in children to twice that number. 4. The heat is raised to 102—104 degrees; in some cases probably higher. 5. All the watery secretions—of skin, mouth, and urine—are sup- pressed. Food is loathed, but acids and water craved for. 6. Headache, wandering at night, and lassitude, testify to disorder of the nervous system. 7. The urine shows remarkable changes. Before an idiopathic inflam- mation it is often pale ;—during the height it is usually scanty and high-coloured;—at the close, it is copious, and turbid with sediments of lithates. There are some exceptions to this, inasmuch as the increased excretion of lithate may begin before the disease, and cease earlier. During the height of acute inflammation, it is often albuminous—it contains serum from congestion of the kidneys, and tubular casts. Speaking generally, the uric acid, extractive matters, and specific gra- vity of urine are greatly increased during acute inflammation. The sulphates are at or above the usual average: the chlorides greatly diminished. The diminution of the chlorides in the urine, which had long been known on the Continent, was made known in England, and the amount of facts greatly increased, by the researches of Dr. Lionel Beale, who has shown that every process of rapid development by cell growth in health or disease requires the presence of large amounts of chloride: (the ash of a fcetal thigh-bone, for example, contains much more per cent, than that of an adult); and that when any diseased process of ex- udation and cell growth is set up, the salt is withdrawn from the blood and urine, and is present in the infiltrated tissue.* 8. That the state of the blood is peculiar during acute inflammation is proved by tlie fact that when drawn its surface is almost immedi- ately covered with a bluish layer, like size : whence inflammatory blood was formerly called sizy. So soon as the blood has coagulated, this layer is visible as a yellowish-white stratum on the surface of the red clot; and as it generally contracts so as to make the upper surface of the clot concave, the technical terms buffed and cupped have been applied to this kind of blood. Various attempts have been made to explain these phenomena. For example: 1. Inflamed blood coagulates slowly; and it has been supposed that this accounts for the buffy coat, inasmuch as it gives * Franckel und Ravoth, Uroscopie, Berlin, 1850 ; Beale, Med. Chir. Trans. 1852; Simon, Animal Chemistry, vol, ii. p. 167.