PHLEGMASIA DOLENS. 67 dura-mater, which allows of the ready passage of diseased fluids into them. A very large proportion of cases of pyaemia are found to follow injuries and operations of the bones. 3rdly. Infection or contagion from puerperal fever or erysipelas ; or inoculation with putrid fluids.* 4thly. It sometimes follows exanthemata or fevers; and sometimes seems to be induced by cold. Treatment.—The leading indications are, 1, to purify the blood; 2, to keep up the strength. For the first purpose it is well to give one ten-grain dose of calomel, and to follow it by purgatives; saline pur- gatives, F. 33, 34, 35, 42, if the bowels are torpid—milder ones, as rhubarb and castor-oil, if they are inclined to diarrhoea; endeavouring to bring away black or yellow fetid stools, not mere water or slime. An emetic may sometimes be of service. For the second purpose, good beef-tea and port wine are of most value; but it will be very desirable to consult the patient's taste. Some patients crave for bottled beer; others for soda water, with or without brandy ; or milk, or lemonade, or nitro-muriatic acid, F. 22, or simple effervescing draughts; and in almost all cases the dictates of appetite may be safely yielded to. Chlorate of potass has a repute; whether deserved or not is another question. Pain and restlessness may be allayed by regular doses of opium, administered in sufficient quantity to produce sleep at night and to tranquillise the nerves ; such as eight or ten grains of Dover's powder at bedtime, with a small dose of hyd. c. creta; and smaller doses of Dover's powder during the day. In other respects, the prac- titioner must treat symptoms : local pain and tenderness by a few leeches and fomentations ; infiammation of pleura, or peritonaeum, or joints, by leeches and bran or mustard-poultices, or blisters ; diarrhoea, if exhausting, must be moderated by chalk or bismuth mixture, and by isinglass; and in all respects the sti-ength should be husbanded, and the constitution assisted in its sti'uggles with this too-fatal disease. Mr, Paget's emphatic declaration at the London Meeting of the British Medical Association'^hould not be forgotten, that the few patients whom he had known to recover owed their lives to being kept in a current of fresh air. Whenever suppuration or puriform deposit takes place, incisions are necessary, on the same principle as in phlegmonous erysipelas. SECTION IV.—PHLEGMASIA ALBA DOLENS. This disease apparently depends on the reception of poisonous fluids into the veins, the coagulation of the blood in them, and the exudation of fibrinous matter into the tissues in which the affected veins and their branches are situated. The symptoms are peculiar, and well expi-essed by the threefold name. There is swelling, considerable, firm, and not (Edematous ; with * See Robert Ferguson on Puerperal Fever, Lend. 1839; Arnott, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xv.; Henry Lee, Med. Gaz. vol. xxxviii.; London Jouinal of Medicine, March and July, 1850; also Med. Chir. Trans, lor 1852.