SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. 336 SECTION II.—SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. Secondary HiEMORRHAGE may be defined to be that which comes on after the lapse of a few hours, or later, after an injury. There are several varieties. 1. It often happens that in a few hours after a wound has been bound up, and the patient put to bed and become warm, sundry small arteries bleed. This case is easily managed. The wound must be opened ; any vessels must be tied that require it; the surface be sponged, with cold water, and then be exposed to the air for a few hours. 2. A second variety is that which has been so ably described by Mr. Guthrie,* and which occurs when a wound of the femoral artery is treated like an aneurism, by tying the vessel at a distance, instead of tying it immediately above and immediately below the wound. Mr. Guthrie lays down the following propositions, viz., That although any artery in the vpper exti'emity may be tied anywhere with very little risk of gangrene, yet that gangrene of the foot and leg often follow, when a ligature has been placed high upon the femoral artery, in con- sequence of a wound. This is not the case when the ligature is applied for an aneurism, because then the collateral circulation has had time to enlarge before the operation. But if after ligature of the femoral, the collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the life of the limb, the blood will pass into the large arteries below the part tied. Then if there be nothing to hinder it, the blood will escape from the lower orifice of the wounded artery. Mr. Guthrie shows also that the processes by which the ends of a divided artery are healed, are less perfect in the lower end than in the upper. The artery does not contract so much, neither does it retract, neither is there a perfect internal coagulum, neither is there an exuda- tion of such plastic lymph. Hence when blood begins to pass into the lower part of the vessel through the collateral circulation, the wounded part gives way to the pressure. The characteristics of this kind of haemorrhage are, that the blood (to quote from Mr. Guthrie) " is of a venous colour, and flows or wells out in a continuous stream, as water rises from a spring, and not with an arterial impulse." It may come on at almost any interval till tire wound is healed. The prevention of this accident will consist in observing Mr. Guthrie's rule, to tie every wounded artery both above and below the wounded part, if practicable. If haemorrhage does occur, the vessel should be cut down upon and secured. Nevertheless, in no case, says Mr. Guthrie, should an operation be done on a wounded artery unless it bleeds. For if it does not bleed, rest and pressure may avert the necessity of any operation at all. But on this point, see p. 147, * Commentaries on Military Surgery, 6th ed., p. 190 et seq.