50 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. The material that closes up the gap is called a cicatrix: it is a band of tibrous tissue covered with cuticle. It has no thickness, for granulations do not really fill up gaps, as is sometimes said, and seldom form a layer more than one-third of an inch thick ; and in the case of an extensive gap the cicatrix is closely glued to the bone or fascia beneath. It afterwards shrinks, becoming paler and likewise looser, through atrophy of the deeper portions. The most favourable granulative cicatrization is attended with little, if any, waste of material in the shape of pus. Adhesions and Cicatrices are extremely liable to shrink, and be- come atrophied. Thus, the extensive cicatrices left after severe burns always contract greatly ; and adhesions between serous surfaces may, in the course of time, disappear entirely. After the liver or kidney has been infiltrated with fibrinous effusion the whole organ is liable to waste. During certain states of constitutional cachexy (as the scurvy), old fractures have become disunited, and old cicatrices have broken out afresh into wounds; showing that the new tissue has less vitality than that of original formation.* Treatment.— If it be wished to remove adhesions, or thickening, the results of previous acute or existing chronic inflammation, the general rules must be attended to which were laid down for the treatment of chronic inflammation. Mercury has a reputation for removing indura- tion : but, as we have before said, it should be used as an eliminative, and not to accumulate and cause ptyalism, F. 87. The local means that may be used to remove the thickening left by a quite subdued inflammation of any external part, are friction, stimulating liniments, F. 143, 150; gentle exercise; shampooing; pressure by bandages or otherwise; cold affusion ; electricity and galvanism ; discutient lotions, especially those of zinc, F. 117, or muriate of ammonia, F. 118; blisters, or other counter-irritants—always taking care not to produce active inflammation by too violent stimulation. CHAPTER X. SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. SECTION 1.—SUPPURATION AND ANALOGOUS PROCESSES. , Suppuration.—According to the doctrines stated in the preced- ing chapter, when an inflammation continues to be excessively acute, or when there are certain defects in the composition of * In examining the body of a madman who had stabbed himself in the abdo- men fifteen different times during his life, the parts near the most recent wounds were found united by considerable false membranes;—at the situation of some that were older, there were only a few thin cellular adhesions; whilst at the oldest, there was no trace of adhesion or ialse membrane whatever. Andral, Anat. Path, vol. i. p. 486.