DISEASES OP THE BLADDER. 630 believe his bladder to be empty, although all the while it is enor- mously distended. No surgeon will fail to put his hand on the pubes when he sees the urine dribbling away. The obvious remedy is the catheter. V. Hysterical Retention op Urine.—There is one form of palsy of the bladder which is not unfrequent in hysterical women, and which consists in a deficiency of will rather than of power. They are not unable to empty the bladder if they try—but they are unable to try. These cases must be treated with purgatives, and fetid medi- cines, both internally and as enemata, F. 102. If the catheter is not employed, the patient will generally begin to make water so soon as she suffers much from distension. VI. Acute Inflammation of the bladder {cystitis) in young per- sons is most fi-equently a consequence of neglected or ill-treated gonor- rhoea ; in oldei- persons it may arise from gout; or it may be an aggra- vation of persistent chronic inflammation from stone or stricture. The symptoms are pain, referred to the perinseum and sacrum, tenderness of the lower part of the abdomen, micturition exceedingly frequent, at- tended with great straining, and followed by an aggravation of the pain, a mucous or muco-purulent sediment in the urine, and fever. (See p. 634.) Treatment.—Leeches to the lower part of the abdomen or perinjEum, hot baths, and warm fomentations; a good dose of calomel, followed by castor-oil, to divert irritating matters from the kidneys; opium by mouth, or by enema, or suppository, in sufficient doses thoroughly to allay pain, and the bicarbonate of potass, neutralized with lemon-juice, or F. 58, 78. VII. Chronic Inflammation of the bladder (catarrhus vesicce) is a very frequent consequence of irritation from stricture, diseased prostate, or stone, and from gout. Symptoms.—Micturition fi-equent, and attended with scalding pain ; the urine loaded with muco-purulent matter, which is sometimes tinged with blood, sometimes yellowish and puriform, but more gene- rally grayish, streaked with white, alkaline, and excessively viscid, so as to stick to the bottom of the chamber-pot when turned upside down. In the early stages there is but little mucus, and the urine may remain acid; but as the disease advances, the quantity of mucus becomes enormous, and the urine is voided of a brownish hue, and of a most offensive ammoniacal odour. Moreovei-, it may clog the urethra, and cause retention of urine ; a kind of retention difficult to manage, because the mucus clogs up the eyes of the catheter. In this stage there is very frequent desire to make water, and constant pain above the pubes.- In general, the mucus contains johosphate of lime, which may be seen in it in white streaks, and which is apt to collect and form a stone in the bladder. Ulceration.—Pei'haps the mucous membrane of the bladder may ulcerate, and after death it may be found as cleanly dissected from the muscular coat as if it had been done with a knife. This will be attended with an intense aggravation of the pain and frequency of