263 FRACTURE OF THE ACROMION. in moving the shoulder, and crepitus; which may be detected by placing one hand on the acromion or spinous process, and moving the shoulder or the inferior angle with the other. Treatment.—'A roller must be passed round the trunk over a large flat pad or napkin placed upon the scapula, and a few turns be made round the humerus, so as to fix the arm to the side, and prevent all motion. Opium and quietude, perhaps purging and low diet, will be required to avert inflammation of the chest. Fracture of the Neck op the Scapula, by which is meant an oblique fracture, detaching the coracoid process and glenoid cavity from the rest of the bone, is a rare accident, insomuch that some surgeons have doubted its existence.* The symptoms described by Sir Astley Cooper are the following:— The shoulder appears sunk, and the arm lengthened ; the acromion is usually prominent, and the deltoid dragged down and flattened ; the head of the humerus can be felt in the axilla ; and on placing one hand or one ear on the acromion, and moving the shoulder, crepitus may be detected. Crepitus may also be felt on pressing the coracoid process, which is situated deep below the clavicle, between the margins of the pectoral and deltoid muscles. The accidents with which this fracture is most likely to be confounded are fracture of the neck of the humerus, and dislocation of the shoulder joint; the symptoms of which should be carefully studied and compared. The existence of crepitus, and the fact that the surgeon can move the shoulder freely (although with great pain), are the chief points of diagnosis between this accident and dislocation. Treatment.—The shoulder must be supported by the same sling, bandage, and pad that are used for fracture of the clavicle ; but a short sling from the axilla of the injured side to the opposite shoulder should be used in addition to the long sling from the elbow to the shoulder. Union may occur in seven weeks. Opium, rest in bed, and warm fo- mentations ; perhaps, leeches and purgatives, will be necessary for the contusion with which this fracture is accompanied. Fracture op the Acromion is known by a flattening of the shoulder, because the fractured portion is drawn down by the deltoid; and by an evident inequality felt in tracing the spine of the scapula, with total inability to raise the arm outwards. It may be distinguished from any dislocation, by noticing that the humerus may be freely moved in any direction, and that, on slightly raising the shoulder, the fragment is restored to its place. This is also a rare accident; and Mr. Fergusson believes that, in some of the supposed cases of ligamentous union, the detached portion was never united by ossification to the rest of the bone from birth. Treatment.—The same bandages, &c., are to be applied as for frac- ture of the clavicle; but great care must be taken to raise the elbow * See a case by Mr. May, of Reading, Med. Gaz., 8th Oct. 1842. Mr. Wor- mald possesses a specimen, of which many casts have been taken by Mr. Wilmott, of St. Mary's Hospital Museum.