INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. 377 Guthrie describes two varieties of it. In the first, which occurs within two days, the tumour is composed of coagulated blood, and is caused by- haemorrhage into the brain near its surface. It is accompanied with delirium and phrenitis, and is generally fatal. The best treatment is, to shave it off level with the surface, so as to permit a free discharge of blood. The other kind of tumour consists of brain itself, infiltrated with lymph and blood. If the dura-mater is still entire, the tumour causes it to slough by its constant pressure, and then protrudes through the aperture in the skull. As it increases in size, it suffers constriction from the apei ture through which it passes, and sloughs; but is speedily succeeded by a fresh growth of brain and of fungous granulation, which undei-goes the same processes, till the patient dies of the irritation. Treatment.—In order to prevent this tumour, a well-regulated pres- sure, just sufficient to afford a natural support, should be made upon the brain by means of compresses of soft lint oiled, in all cases when the skull is perforated. If the fungus has already protruded, the best application is liq, calcis, with which the lint may be wetted. If this fail, and the degree of pressure requisite to prevent increase cause symptoms of cerebral oppression, the part should be shaved off level with the scalp, and any further growth be prevented by the liq, calcis and lint, and pressure, as before. Fungous granulations proceeding from the exposed pia- or dura-mater must be carefully distinguished from true hernia cerebri. These are best treated by the application of lunar caustic frequently. SECTION VI. ^TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. General Description.—Inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes rarely makes its appearance till a week after an injury, fre^ quently not till three weeks, or even later. Its symptoms and progress are vei y various; sometimes sudden, violent, and soon terminating in destructive suppuration; sometimes slow, insidious, and unsuspected, till suddenly manifested by fatal coma or palsy. Symptoms,—First stage.—The patient complains of tightness and pain in the head, aggravated by heat, motion, and anything that causes excitement of mind or body, together with a disagreeable sense of lan- guor or weakness, confusion of ideas, quick pulse, disturbed sleep, nausea, and want of appetite, and alternate flushing and paleness. Second stage.—The symptoms having lasted a day or two, there comes on a violent rigour, followed by burning heat of the skin : the pulse is hai'd and frequent; the carotid and temporal arteries pulsate vehe- mently; the headache becomes most intolerable and throbbing; the pupils are contracted ; light is unsupportable to the eyes, and sound to the ears; the tongue is dry, the bowels obstinately costive, and the stomach rejects everything with frequent retching. Besides these symptoms, violent delirium or convulsions come on at intervals, or perhaps coma. If they are unrelieved, the third stage soon follows.