CARIES. 247 separation of a superficial layer of bone, or of the extremity of a bone —of a phalanx, for example, or of the end of a bone after amputation —without the formation of a shell of new bone, as in necrosis. It is generally caused by some mechanical or chemical injury, or by stripping off the periosteum. Not, however, that stripping off the periosteum is invariably followed by exfoliation; for the bone may remain jed and moist, and throw out granulations; whereas, if it be about to exfoliate, it becomes white and dry. Treatment.—A lotion of weak nitric acid may be useful; and the exfoliating portion should be removed as soon as it can be detached. SECTION VI.—CARIES. Caries is an unhealthy inflammation, through which the cavities of bone become the seat of various exudations, which interfere with the vitality of the bone substance, and cause it to be absorbed, or else to ulcerate. On examination the bone is soft and dark red; its cells are filled with a red serous or thick glairy fluid, or with soft granulations of feeble vitality, part of which may die and be converted into "cheesy tubercle."—(See p. 92.) After a time sup- puration occurs; an abscess breaks, and the cai-ions portion of the bone, already softened and spongy, gradually perishes in minute scales, which are thrown off and discharged with the pus. The bone, when macerated and dried, looks soft and spongy ; eaten into hollows, and thrown into irregular elevations ; the latter marking the site of granulations, and of attempts at reparation. Si/mptoms.—" The external character of the limb," says Mayo, " is the same in necrosis and caries. The bone appears enlarged, and one or more sinuses open from it at points that are soft, and red, and sunken." If a probe is passed into these, it will readily break down the softened texture of the carious bone, which yields a gritty feel. Causes,—Caries most frequently attacks bones of a soft, spongy texture ; such as the vertebrcE, the round and flat bones, and the articular extremities of long bones. Its genuine cause is some constitutional disorder, scrofula, syphilis, or mercury. Treatment.—The indications are twofold ; —to rectify constitutional disorder, and to remove the local disease. The former object must be accomplished by change of air, tonics, and alteratives, sea air and sea water, and the measures that