ABSCESSES. 597 X. Abscesses near the rectum may be caused by the irritation of foreign bodies, or by caries of an adjacent bone, but they are much more frequently the result of the various causes of disordered circulation in the hsemorrhoidal vessels that were mentioned as producing piles, and especially of that morbid state of mucous membrane which accompa- nies pulmonary tubercle or the tendency thereto. They may either be large and deep-seated, or small and superficial. 1. Deep-seated ab- scesses are attended with great aching and throbbing, difficulty and pain in evacuating the faeces, and fever, and on internal examination an elas- tic ill-defined tumour or fluctuation may be felt. If these abscesses are left to themselves, a vast quantity of matter may accumulate in the loose cellular tissue of the pelvis, and severe irritative fever result from its confinement. 2. Superficial abscesses are attended with more or less pain, tenderness, and throbbing, and swelling around the anus. Or either may be quite chronic and indolent. Treatment.—In acute cases leeches and fomentations may be tried at first; but if they do not very soon remove the pain and tenderness, or if there is the least suspicion that matter is forming, a bistoury should be pushed home into the inflamed part, and if it be at all extensive, two or three punctures or counter-openings in the most depending parts, or where pointing occui's, should be made. XI. Fistula in Ano signifies a fistulous track by the side of the sphincter ani. It is extremely difficult to heal, both because the con- stant contractions of the sphincter and levator ani interfere with the union of its sides, and because of the passage of fascal matter into it from the bowel. There are three kinds spoken of in books. 1. The complete fistula, which has one external opening near the anus, and another into the bowel above the sphincter, where it may be felt like a small papilla. 2. The blind external fistula, which has no opening into the bowel, although it mostly reaches its outer coat. 3. The blind internal fistula, which opens into the bowel, but not externally, although its situation is indicated by a redness and hardness near the anus; or pei'haps the aperture is so small as to be scarcely perceptible. This atiection is a common result of abscess by the side of the rec- tum. Brodie's opinion is, that it always commences with an ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane of the rectum, and an escape of faecal matter into the cellular tissue, which gives rise to abscess, and the abscess to fistula. But most other surgeons believe that it may be the result of abscesses around the anus, which have no connection with the rectum. Besides, there may be openings near the anus, lead- ing from the tuber ischii, which may be carious. Treatment,'—The grand remedy for this affection is division of the sphincter ani, so as to prevent contraction of that muscle for a time, and division likewise of the internal orifice, if any. The digestive organs and secretions must first be put into good order, and the bowels be well cleared by castor-oil and an injection, so that they may not want to be disturbed for two or three days. Operation.—The patient being placed on his knees and elbows on a bed, or being made to kneel