DISEASES OF THE UEINARY ORGANS. 614 rod, E, and on this directing-rod, under cover of and between the two separate blades, a dilating-tube, F, can be passed down to and within the stricture after the staff in its undilated state has been passed. Mr. Holt's instrument has been improved in the last few years. The directing-rod, E, is made hollow, with an opening at the back of the curve of the dilator, and is fitted with a stylet. Thus urine will flow through it so soon as it has reached the bladder, and this fact will be made clear. This was devised by Mr. Smyly, of the Meath Hospital. Mr. Holt begins by ascertaining the permeability of the canal, and the gauge of a sound that will fit the orifice of the urethra, A dilating tube of the same size is then chosen, and some screws in the handle (which do not appear in our figure) are then set at such a distance as to let the dilating tube pass, but not to allow the urethra to be stretched further. The instrument is then introduced closed. When the bladder is reached, the dilating tube is pushed home quickly so as to split and not merely dilate the stricture. The dilator is a little rotated to insure separation of the split, and is then withdrawn : a catheter introduced to draw oS the water, and the patient sent to bed with directions to take every four hours two grains of quinine and ten minims of laudanum. A catheter should be introduced once a day for a week, and then occasionally, to keep the passage open. Mr. Holt believes this process to be as safe as it is easy and expeditious. Mr. Coxeter has an instrument consisting, like the foregoing, of two blades, joined at the smaller extremity. The upper blade. A, is con- nected with a rod, E, which works within the lower blade, B, by several small bars riveted at each end, whose action is like those in the well-known instrument called the parallel ruler. By turning the nut D, the rod, E, which ends in the screw, F, is pushed forwards ; thus the connecting bars cause the upper blade, A, to separate from the lower. 8. If a small catheter is retained in the bladder for two or three days, the passage suppurates and dilates remarkably; just as the lachrymal duct does from the presence of a style, this method of cure may be attempted when the stricture is very gristly and car- tilaginous ; or when the urethra is irregular, or has had a false pas- sage made in it. The catheter should be of silver, and should be retained by means of two strings, which may be passed backwards between the thighs, and be fastened to a band round the waist. It should be removed in two or three days, and a larger catheter should * Coxeter's Stricture Dilator.