MINERAL AND VEGETABLE IRRITANTS. 168 Treatment.—After injury from any of these acids, the first thing to be done is to wash it away, and neutralize it by repeated ablution with warm soap and water, with a little carbonate of soda; then to apply poultices or any simple di-essings to the ulcers that remain. The pain of these injuries is greatly increased by cold. II. Alkalies AND Caustic Earths.—These, like the acids, appear to destroy animal matter by combining with its water. They also form a soap with the fat. Caustic potass, in the form of liquor potassce and quickhme, are the substances of this class which most frequently give rise to accidents. The liquor ammonias produces almost instant vesica- tion and great pain when it touches the skin ; it is, therefore, much to be prized as a speedy and efficient counter-irritant. Treatment.—Ablution with weak warm vinegar and water, followed by poultices and simple dressings. III. Metallic Compounds.—The bichloride of mercury acts by its tendency to combine with albumen ; and the chloride of zinc and chlo- ride (or butter) of a7itimony probably produce their cauterant effects in a similar manner. The nitrate of silver is remarkable for the super- ficiality of its effects. It may vesicate the skin, or destroy a film on the surface of a sore, but its action does not spread. It suffers decom- position at the moment of its contact with the animal tissue ; its acid appearing to be separated, whilst the metallic oxide combines and forms a white crust with the animal matter: and this soon becomes black, because the silver loses its oxygen, and is reduced to the metallic state. Treatment.—The bichloride of mercury is rendered inert by white of egg mixed with water; the chloride of antimony is decomposed by water; the nitrate of silver by common salt; and the chloride of zinc by a solution of alkaline carbonate. These, therefore, would respec- tively be the proper applications for external injuries caused by these metallic compounds; although such cases very rarely come under the surgeon's cognizance. Arsenic, locally applied, not only produces inflammation, or spha- celus, but may also be absorbed into the circulation, and produce its ordinary constitutional effects as well. The surgical treatment of any local injury from this mineral must consist in removing it as much as possible by ablution with lime-water, or with water holding the hydrated peroxide of iron in suspension, and then applying fomentations, or whatever other dressings may be most appropriate. IV. Acrid Vegetables.—The inflammation excited by these sub- stances requires merely soothing fomentations and emollient dressings. The smart from the sting of nettles may, it is said, be allayed by a weak infusion of tobacco, or the cut surface of a raw onion, if severe enough to require any remedy at all. If an irritating fluid have been injected into the cellular tissue, free incisions must be made, both to allow its escape and to afford exit to pus. By this means sloughing of the skin may often be avoided, although very likely to occur when the subjacent tissue is extensively disorganised.