ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 212 with a red and moist surface lilte that of mucous membrane, exuding a thin acrid and ill-smelling discharge. The most frequent situation is the neighbourhood of the genitals, or any other place Avhere two surfaces of skin are in contact. They seem to consist of patches of psoriasis, modified by the moisture of the situation. (See p. 69.) They are most common about the anus and sci'otum ; and especially the vulva and perinaBum in women, on the throat and soft palate, on the lips and nostrils, and between the toes (rhagades). They are eminently con- tagious to the patient and others, and often accompanied with warty growths, by which the genital organs of common prostitutes are con- verted into huge stinking masses of thickened tissue. Syphilitic Sore Throat.—1. Next to the mucous patch, the mildest variety is a superficial excoriation of the mucous membrane of the tonsils or some other part of the mouth or fauces. The parts affected are swollen and sore, usually red and glazed, and stripped of the natm-al epithelium : this state may exist in a mere patch, or may extend over the tongue, and inside of the lips. When attended with patches of thickened copper-coloured and vascular skin, and redness of the conjunctiva, and soreness of the nostrils and ears, it has a very characteristic appearance. 2. The excavated ulcer looks as if a piece had been scooped out of the tonsil. Its surface is foul and yellow, its edges raised, and ragged, and swelled. There is remarkably little inconvenience fi-om it, and very little constitutional affection, unless it be attended with eruption likewise. The patient has a peculiar guttural way of speaking, and often complains of pain in the ears. 3. The sloughing ulcer begins as a small aphthous spot, which rapidly ulcerates, and is attended with great pain and fever. 1'he surface of the ulcer is covered with an ashy slough, and the surrounding mucous membrane is dark, livid, and swollen. The lingual artery may be opened by the spread of the ulceration, and the patient may die of hsemorrhage, unless the common carotid is tied. A complication of tertiary syphilis in a broken-down system. III. Syphilitic Ulcerations of the nose and palate commence with excoriations and mucous patches, which in cachectic persons may be followed by ulcerations of the mucous membrane, similar to those of the throat, which may denude the periosteum, and then produce exfoliation of the bones, with profuse fetid discharge and odious de- formity. Ulceration of the nose generally begins with a sense of heat, and dryness, and snuffling. Syphilitic ulceration of the larynx is characterised by tenderness, great huskiness of voice (which frequently degenerates into a mere whisper), suffocative cough, and expectoration of bloody purulent matter ; there is great loss of flesh and strength, and life is often terminated b}' suf- focation from contraction of the ulcei'S when cicatrizing. IV. Syphilitic Disease of Periosteum and Bone most fre- quently attacks the tibia, ulna, os frontis, clavicle, and other superficial bones. It commences with tenderness of the affected bone, and severe