715 CHLOROFORM. The following hints may be of use to beginners :—The chloroform should not be allowed to touch the lips, or it may blister them. The patient should not be chloroformed within two hours of a full meal. This precaution may prevent the annoyance of vomiting. He should be narcotized before he is removed to the operating-table, and before he can see any preparations or knives. The humanity of this precaution, if a timid patient is to be brought into the operating theatre of an hospital, is evident. He should be taken back to bed again in a state of unconsciousness. There should he no hurry, because complete in- sensibility to pain, and absence of involuntary movement and wincing, are more safely obtained after the vapour has had time to permeate all the capillaries and benumb all the peripheral nerves. Dr. Snow makes the most valuable observation, that insensibility to pain cannot be ob- tained in a very rapid manner without a dangerous degree of narcotism of the nervous centres. The inhalation should occupy at least from four to seven minutes before the third degree of narcotism is esta- blished ; and then it will usually be another minute more before the surgeon should begin—eight minutes altogether. The loud talking or violence of the intoxication stage is no cause of alarm ; quite the re- verse ; it shows that the vapour has not produced a dangerous eftect, and that a slight increase is neressary to produce the next degree. At every operation the management of the chloroform should be committed to one competent person, whose duty it should be to attend to it, and nothing else, with his eye on the breathing, and his finger on the pulse. The class of patients on whom chloroform acts most pleasantly and safely are women in childbirth; next, children, in whom it scarcely ever causes either mental excitement or struggling. Moreover, immu- nity from pain is obtained with less narcotism of the nervous cent)'es than in adults. It does not work so well on infants. The very aged are long in recovering their consciousness after inhalation. The more feeble a patient is, the more quickly and pleasantly does the vapour generally act; if very strong and robust, considerable mental excitement is apt to occur in the second degree of narcotism, and struggling or rigidity of the muscles in the third. Some patients hold their breath for some seconds. In this case, the first deep inhalation should be of pure air only. The cases in which the inhalation of chloroform is useful, comprise, in the first place, every surgical manipulation attended with pain; of which it seems not only to render the patient unconscious, but also, by preventing its effects on the mind, to neutralize its depressing power on the body. To lull the pain during operations as well as the smarting after them ; to lull the pain and shock of violent injuries, and of the surgical examination and setting of fractures which follow; to facilitate the reduction of hernia and dislocations and the passing of catheters, and to detect feigned disease; these are its chief surgical uses. But its benefits are not confined to the abolition of pain; there is great reason for hoping that it renders operations less mortal; it en-