789 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. pezium; taking care not to wound the radial artery where it passes between the first and second metacarpal bones. VI. Amputation at the head of a metacarpal hone is effected by making an incision on each side of it (as in amputation of the fingers at the joint, but extending rather higher up), and then cutting through the bone with the cutting-forceps. Mr, Fei'gusson recommends the head of the metacarpal bone to be removed in almost every in- stance where the entire finger is abstracted, because the de- formity is much less. But the part need not be removed high enough up to divide the trans- verse ligament. Care must be taken during the cure to keep the fingers parallel, and prevent them from crossing at their tips. VII. Amputation of the metacarpal bone of the little FINGER is performed thus:—An incision is made along the ulnar bor- der of the dorsum of the bone, and is carried round the root of the little finger. The skin and flesh are dissected off, as closely as possible, and the bone divided or disarticulated. (See amputation of the meta- tarsal bone of the left toe.) If a part or the whole of the shaft of one or any of the metacarpal bones is to be removed also, an incision should be made along its dor- sum, to the point where the two former ones meet; and then the flesh being dissected away on either side, the bone may be cut through or disarticulated according to circumstances. In dividing the metacarpal bone in these amputations the forceps should have their handles in- clined backwards, so as to slope the cut surface of the bone obliquely, and prevent a prominent angle above. section XI.—AMf^UTATIONS OF THE FOOT. I, Amputation of the toes at any of their joints is performed in precisely the same manner as amputation of the fingers, in remov- ing a single toe from its metatarsal bone, the surgeon should take care first of all to ascertain the exact situation of the joint, which lies rather deeply. Moreover, he should not lemove the head of a metatarsal bone, if possible to avoid it, because it is important to preserve the entire breadth of the foot.* * Mr. Haynes AValton has favoured the writer with a vahiable note to the effect, that it is desirable to explore the real seat and amount of disease about