120 CANCER, number of cases. 2. Sex: for cancer is at least from ^ to J more prevalent in the female. 3. Age: because nearly half of the entire number of cases occur between 40 and 60. Lastly—although cancer is not contagious in the ordinary sense of the term, there seems reason for believing that, if fresh cancer cells are introduced into the blood, they may be deposited and propagate themselves. The experiment has been tried on dogs by Langenbeck and by Lebert; and cancerous tumours were found in various parts, when the animals were killed some time afterwards ; yet it must be remembered that some of the tumours found in these cases may have existed before the inoculation. General Pathology.—The ancients considered scirrhus to be a consequence of inflammation, acute or chronic;—or to be a consequence of black bile. During the Hunterian era, it was supposed to depend on a peculiar action of vessels. Then it was believed that the cancer cell was something quite heterologous, alien to the human body, and specific;—now the opinion of pathologists is veering round to the old opinion—that cancer belongs to the same class of changes, as tubercle, chronic inflammation, &c.; and that it arises as they do, by unhealthy proliferation of existing cell or germinal elements. We know nothing of its essential nature. We say that it is the consequence of some un- known condition, to which is assigned the name of the cancerous dia- thesis. The type, and the most frequent variety, is the encephaloma; for although most of the cancers of the female breast are of the scir- rhous variety, and although this is common in the periosteum, dura mater, and pylorus, yet in every other tissue and organ the encepha- loid largely prevails. Cancer may occur at any age ; Lebert has seen it in the brain of a child of seven months; and believes it may be de- veloped in the foetus in utero. Cancer of the eye is most frequent under 15 ; that of the female breast and of the uterus (which form more than a fourth of the entire cases of cancer) between 40 and 60; of the tes- ticle between 20 and 50 ; of the intestinal tube in advanced life; whilst cancer of the bones is equally frequent at all ages. The Progress of Cancer may be divided into three stages:— 1. In the first, it begins insidiously, giadually increases, and may remain for a time unnoticed, if in an organ (such as the skin or breast) whose functions are not active. In this stage the constitutional symp- toms may be slight, if any. 2. The second is a stage of ac^/w local progress. The tumour grows faster; begins to adhere to and to infiltrate neighboui'ing tissues and the nearest lymphatics. And now, not only the functions of the organ affected, and of the others implicated by contiguity, become more de- cidedly deranged, but other symptoms manifest themselves peculiar to the morbid growth. Pain of a most severe, intermitting, neuralgic sort; gradually increasing in seveiity ; felt in the tumour itself as a sharp, stabbing, or burning sensation; in the muscles and bones as a wearing rheumatic pain, often disturbing the sleep at night; some- times preceding all local disease; sometimes not felt till it is far ad- vanced, is one of the most marked symptoms of cancer. This is quite independent of other pain arising from pressure, distension, or stagna-