341 ANEURYSM. When a large artery is blocked, the symptoms, which formerly were ascribed to arteritis, are, tendeiness and swelling of the affected artery, violent pain and numbness and tendency to gangrene in the parts supplied by it. The author some time since treated a young man for dysentery; and, during convalescence, the axillary artery in the last part of its course suddenly became swelled and painful, and the hand cold, with no pulse. The patient was treated with small doses of mercury, and the circulation was completely restored in three weeks. Dr. Crisp relates several cases of far greater severity. A girl, aged 22, suffered from violent fever, fainting, profuse perspii'ations, great pain in the limbs, and tenderness in the course of the arteries. After some days, no pulse could be felt in the axillary from an inch below the clavicle, or in the popliteal. Both feet became gangrenous, especially the left, which was amputated below the knee eight months after- wards : at the time of the operation no pulse could be felt in any of the extremities. Very little blood came from the larger arteries, and that not per saltwn, but the smaller vessels bled profusely. On examination of the leg, the arteries seemed smaller than natural, but not otherwise diseased. In another case, the patient died with rheumatism and diseased heart; the brachial artery was enlarged and plugged with fibrine. In the dry gangrene of the aged, the main artery sometimes, but not always, contains solid fibrine. In a case, recorded in the Provincial Medical Journal, 23rd April, 1842, sudden obliteration of the left axillary artery, with intense pain and numbness of the arm, and sloughing of the end of one finger, followed the haemorrhage of abortion in a young lady of 24. SECTION VI.—ANEURYSM. Definition.—An aneurysm is a pulsating tumour formed by a sac filled with blood coagula, and fibrinous laminas, and communicating with an artery, by the rupture or dilatation of which it has been produced. Varieties.—In the first place, a distinction must be made between aneurysm, which consists of a dilatation of an artery, for a i^art only of its circumference; and the general dilatation, which consists of a bulbous expansion of all the arterial tunics for the whole of their cir- cumference, and which differs from true aneurysm in containing no laminated fibrine or coagula. The true aneurysm consists of a sac formed by one or more of the arterial tunics. The false and diffused aneurysms, so called, which result from wounds of arteries, have been described in the 3rd section of this chapter. Besides these kinds, authors speak of a sacculated aneurysm; that is, one which is formed into pouches by an unequal dilatation of its' parietes; and of a dissecting aneurysm, that is to say, one in which the blood finds its way between the arterial tunics, and may even open into the artery at another part. Pathology.—Aneurysm generally commences by a giving way of the