57 CHRONIC ABSCESS. If.the hectic arise from a local disease, it may cease instantly, on the removal of the disease, by operation or otherwise. But if the causes continue, and the malady increase, the diarrhoea and perspira- tions become more and moi'e profuse and exhausting, the throat becomes aphthous, and the patient sinks. Causes.—Hectic fever, more or less well marked, attends several of the great assimilative disorders of the blood, as diabetes. But that which interests the surgeon is its connection with suppuration; and there is no doubt that true severe hectic depends on the absorption of decomposing pus into the blood, and that the perspirations and diarrhoea are the means by which nature eliminates the poison. In the case of certain deep abscesses (the writer, from his midwifery practice, has seen it in the breasts more often than elsewhere) there may be a daily attack of cold shivers, succeeded by heat and profuse fetid perspiration, and attended by great debility, red tongue, and diarrhoea ; and these symptoms, after lasting for days, may be relieved at once by opening the abscess. It is often said that shivering is a sign of suppuration. This is not true absolutely, for pus may be formed without shivering. But shiver- ing is a sign that matter, if formed, is beginning to be absorbed in a condition that renders it poisonous; and the occurrence of it, espe- cially if attended with the other signs of hectic, renders it the surgeon's duty to look for local mischief. Treatment.—The first indication is to remove the local disease if it can be done. The second is to support the strength. The third to treat symptoms. The first may often be fulfilled by letting out pus, or cutting out a diseased part, or such other operation as may suit the individual case. The second, by abundance of food, especially animal food, and good beer or port wine. Preparations of isinglass, or other fish or animal jelly, seem also to supply waste; and there are some cases in which feverishness is so great that the patient can take only milk and fari- naceous food, as arrowroot, bread, &c. The best tonics are bark and steel, especially the decoction of bark with nitric acid, F. 1 ; and the Mixture of Moses Griffith, F. 19. Diarrhoea is best combated by pure meat diet and sulphuric acid, F. 24, 25; with small doses of opium. Sometimes the old-fashioned soothing medicines, chalk and bismuth mixtures, &c., are useful, and sometimes gallic acid. Perspirations are relieved, also, by sulphuric acid, and oxide of zinc. SECTION IV.—CHRONIC ABSCESS ; AND TYPHOID SYMPTOMS FROM PUTREFACTION OF PUS. General Description.—Chronic abscesses may be the result of an exudation produced by a low and unsuspected degree of inflammation, or of some non-inflammatory scrofulous deposit. They most frequently are the result of diseased bone. They are mostly lined with a thin,