OX VENEREAL DISEASES. 194: 4. Plurality of Poisons.—Having thus shown the distinction be- tween gonorrhoea and syphilis and between the non-infecting and in- fecting kinds of chancre, we may ask whether the varieties (^venereal disease depend on variety of poisons. We know what tlie poison of gonoi-rhoea is. It is the pus of an inflamed mucous membrane, and has nothing specific in it. What the poison of syphilis is, we know not, and may imitate Mr, Lee's philosophic caution when he says that we know not whether there be many poisons, or one poison actmg in different ways. 5. Lastly, as part of the general history of syphilis, the student should know that quicksilver was brought into use by the Arabian physicians a thousand years ago as a remedy for vermin and skin disease, and that it was used, from analogy, almost upon the first out- break of syphiHs. It was at first employed by inunction and fumiga- tion ;—afterwards internally ; but at first by very coarse and corrosive preparations. It was immensely abused by quacks ; and guaiacum and sudorific decoctions of sassafras, china and sarsaparilla, with copious sweatings, were early substitutes. There is no doubt but that mercury has done more good than any other remedy, though it was for a long time coarsely used even by I'egular practitioners, who caused patients to spit half a dozen pints a day. Still it has taken three hundred and fifty years of the most actively observant period of man's history, to clear uj) the nature of syphilis, and that during that time, although we have improved in the mode of using old remedies, we have but one new one, the iodide of potassium.* SECTION II.—GONORRHCEA, OR CLAP. Definition.—A gonorrhoea signifies a suppuration of the mucous membrane of the male or female geqitals ; produced by contagion from tlie pus of a membrane in the like state. Symptoms.—In tlie first stage, the patient notices a little itching at the orifice of the ujethra, with a slight serous or thin whitisli discharge. If the disease is not checked, it passes after a few days into the second, or acutely inflammatory stage. The discharge be- comes thick and purulent, and when the disease is at its height is greenish, or tinged with blood. The penis swells; the glans become of a peculiarly cherry colour, is intensely tender, and oft-en excoriated, lu consequence of the tumefied state of the urethra, the stream of urine is small and f()rked, and passed with much straining and severe pain and scalding. Ail the j^arts in the vicinity of the genitals, the * The author must record his obligations to Hennen's Military Surgery; Carmichael on Syphilis ; Bacol's Treatise on SyphiHs; Ti avers on the Venereal; Titley on Diseases of the Genitals of the Male; Judd's Treatise on Urethritis and Syphilis (Plates); H. J. Johnson, in Med. Chir. Review; Colles on the Venereal; Ricord, Traite des Maladies Vdn^riennes, Paris, 1839; Mayo on Syphilis, Lond. 1840; Lane's Lectures in the Lancet, 1841 and 1842; Egan on Syphilis and Inoculation, London 1853; Tyler Smith, Lancet, 1853, vol. ii. Becket's Papers on the Antiquity of Syphilis, Phil. Trans. 1714-24; Bumstead on Venereal Diseases, Philadelphia, 18G4.