768 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. To tie the vessel in the upper part of the leg, an incision four inches long, or even longer, should be made through the skin, midway between the spine of the tibia and the external edge of the fibula, half of which should be in the upper third of the leg, and half in the middle. The intermuscular septa, between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, must be sought for, raised on a director, and divided. It will facilitate the future steps of the operation to cut the fascia a little transversely at one or both extremities of the incision. The heel should be fully brought down, and the muscles then separated wit^ the finger, fi'om below upwards. It must not be forgotten that at the lower part of the incision, the extensor proprius pollicisis to be separated from the tibialis anticus, as about the centre of the leg it intervenes between the extensor communis digitorum and tibialis anticus. The rule is to keep close to the fibres of the tibialis anticus. The artery is deeply seated, lying on the inter- osseous membrane, accompanied by its two veins, and having the nerve in front and in close contact. The nerve is superficial in its entire course, and often changes its situation from one side to another. To tie it in the lower part of the leg.—An incision three inches in length, commencing at about the junction of the middle with the lower third of the leg, just half an inch external to the spine of the tibia, must ]be made obliquely upwards and outwards, as is shown in the second illustration (p. 769). The fascia covering the tibialis anticus must then be divided, and the artery will be found lying on the bone external to the lewer portion of this muscle or its tendon, surrounded by the vense comites, and with the nerve directly in front. At this place, in a muscular subject, the artery is apt to be covered by the muscular fibres of the extensor pro- prius pollicis, which crosses completely to its inner side a little below. ShouM it be found necessary to tie the artery lower down, the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis had better be drawn to the outside, while that of the tibialis anticus is drawn in the contrary direction, and the connecting fascia divided. Here the vessel rests on the outer surface of the tibia. VI. The Dorsal Artery of the Foot can rarely require to be tied. This vessel, superficial though it be, is, from its diminutiveness and the tightness of the fascia on the dorsum of the foot, very difficult to be taken up even in the dead body. The posterior extremity of the inter- osseous space, between the first and second metatarsal bone, being found, an incision should be carried directly upwards for two inches or more. The fascia having been divided on a director, the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis and the inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum •will be exposed, between which the artery lies. The last-named tendon is a certain guide, as it is first external to the vessel. In wounds of the arteries in the sole of the foot (except perhaps of the external plantar, opposite the base of the little toe), before enlarging the wound with the view of securing the bleeding point, methodical pressure may be applied after the manner recommended at p. 335; if