690 CANCER OF THE BREAST. it as a means of procuring about a twelvemonth's relief from the weari- ness and anxiety of disease; provided, 1, that the internal organs are sound, and the health such that the operation itself is not likely to be mortal; and 2, that the bi'east is yet not so adherent, nor the skin and glands not so diseased as to render it unlikely that the wound will cicatrize. Again, an exceedingly rapid progress, especially of soft can- cer, in young persons, may render the operation hopeless; whilst an exceedingly slow progress in the old would render it unnecessary. Palliatives.—But, in proportion to the hopelessness of cure, so ought our efforts to be strenuous in devising means for assuaging the bodily torments, the loathsomeness, the mental despondency, which render the sufferer insupportable to herself and to others. In addition to the di- rections which we have already given (p. 123), we may subjoin the following brief hints to the younger practitioner. In the first place, study the effects of opium and other narcotics on each individual patient. Learn the form and combination which serve in smallest doses to procure sleep by night, and to allay pain by day, with least headache and loss of appetite. When the ordinary forms of opium or morphia do not agree, try the black drop; the preparations of Squire, Battley, or Jeremie ; make great use of opiates locally (F. 26 to 32). Try chlorofoi-m inhalation in its mildest degree. We have observed great relief to the miserable rheumatic pains from daily administration of sul- phuric or chloric asther; or of negus or good beer. Lebert speaks highly of the value of sulphate of quinine for the same purpose (F. 3). Thus death will be postponed so far as it is induced by the exhaustion of pain. In the next place, for a disorder whose starting-point is some error of nutrition, it is more than probable, that, if any remedy is to be found, it will be in some article of diet, which shall supply to the cancer matter, the 'complemental material required for its conversion into healthy plastic matter. Besides the articles mentioned at p. 94, turtle soup, eels, American oysters, Edinburgh ale. Tent or Constantia, oatmeal porridge, with wine or beer, may give a stimulus to nutrition. As to particular symptom.s, the oedema of the arm, which is often such a distressing complication of the later stages of this disease, may be somewhat retarded by bandages, and by keeping the limb in an ele- vated posture. Blisters near the shoulder, and punctures of the skin, may be tried when it becomes excessive. Itchings may be allayed bv glycerine, infusion of tobacco, tincture of aconite or of belladonna painted on the part; or by baths of bran or gelatine; or by the local application of chloroform, and especially by astringents, as the tincture of galls, or solution of tannin. It is important to save the skin from excoriation as long as possible, by tannin, black wash, bismuth, &c. XIV. Extirpation of the Breast is thus performed:—The patient being narcotized and on a convenient couch, an assistant takes the arm of the affected side and holds it out, so as to put the pectoralis on the stretch. The surgeon then makes a semi-elliptical incision below the nipple along the lower border of the pectoralis major, and another on the upper and inner side of the nipple, so as to include that part