770 AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. pressure should have a fair trial; or Mr. Pollock's plan of compressing the femoral, and leaving the wound open to the air (p. 756). We have described the various methods of acupressure (p. 333) pro- posed by Dr. Simpson as substitutes for the ligature. To these we ought to have added an account of Mr. Dix's wire compress.* Instead of pins he uses thin iron or silver wire passed by means of two straight needles round the artery, directly through the tissues of the flap to the surface of the skin, and then fastened over a cork by the ends twisted. Very little traction suffices to close the artery, and the wire can easily be withdrawn by cutting one end even with the skin, and making gentle traction upon the other end. Thread may be substi- tuted for wire. Mr. Wood has applied a double acupressure to the continuity of the smaller and superficial arteries to stop haemorrhage and cure aneurysms exactly in the same way and by the same means as he uses to obliterate varicose veins (see p. 362), and has found the process all that could be desired, saving much pain to the patient, and much time and trouble to the surgeon. It is to be hoped that surgeons will accept the fruit of Dr. Simpson's labours, and perfect the method of stopping the current of blood through arteries, whether in wounds, or in the continuity of the limb, by the simple means of thread, wire, and needles. Thus operations for exposing and tying arteries will be avoided ; wounds will not be kept open by ligatures; so soon as the artery is closed, the thread or wire will be withdrawn, the sloughing of the tied portion will be done away with, and tlie consequent risk of pyjemia, as well as all the tedious- ness of waiting for the separation of ligatures. Care must of course be taken that the needle or wire do not strangulate the enclosed tissues, and thus prevent adhesion at that part. We must lastly mention one of the greatest triumphs of modern medicine,—the cure of aneurysm of the abdominal aorta, by pressure kept up for five hours under chloroform. This, the first achievement of its kind, and the greatest, was the work of Dr. William Murray of Newcastle.! CHAPTEE VL AMPUTATIONS. I. Amputation op the Thigh.—It will be convenient to describe this amputation first; and to embody in the description of it such general precepts as are applicable to the other amputations. In the first place, the surgeon should have his tourniquets, ampu- * See Med. Times and Gaz., 24th Jan. 1863; also Professor Simpson's work on Acupressure, Edinburgh, 1864. f Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xlvii.