DISEASES OF THE CHOROID. 439 sclerotic becomes much distended, it may be punctured with a needle —the instrument being introduced for one-eighth of an inch towards the centre of the eye, so as not to wound the lens; this will cause' temporary rehef. II. Weakness of Sight, or Asthenopia: Musc^ Volitantes. —Persons of delicate constitutions and sedentary habits, especially if they are in the habit of writing much, or otherwise exerting their eyes on minute objects, are liable to suffer from dimness of sight; un- easiness on exposure to a strong light; and the vision of floating black specks or streaks, which, from their resemblance to flies, have acquired the name of muscce volitantes. In one form of the affection the patient is unable to continue for any length of time to look at minute or near objects; partly on account of the confusion and obscurity which over- spread them, and partly from a sense of fatigue in the eyes. A short interval of repose is sufficient to recruit the eyes, so that the power of vision returns. The disease is apt to increase unless the particular em- ployment that seems to produce it be abandoned, but it never ends in total destruction of sight, and must not be confounded with amaurosis. It is often improperly called Choroiditis. These symptoms evidently depend on weakness of organization, either original or pi'oduced by over- exertion ; and the principal measures to be adopted are tonics, aperients, shower-bathing, and change of air, with perfect rest of the eyes, which afterwards should not be used too long at a time. It is almost al- ways associated with hyperemia of the optic disc; see page 437. Weakness of sight, with intolerance of light, is very commonly an ac- companiment of short sight; it may always be recognised by an uneasy bashful look about the patient's eyes, the lids of which are half-closed, and perpetually winking, and the brow contracted. Dr. Mackenzie has shown that the appearance of muscse is caused either by globules of mucus on the surface of the cornea, or by minute particles floating within the eyeball.* This is confirmed by the ophthalmoscope, although in all cases the floating particles cannot be seen. The surgeon should take care not to mistake the effects of mere fatigue of the eyes, such as aching, increased vascularity, intolerance of light, and muscae, for inflammation; and not to treat such symptoms indiscriminately by depletion. III. Synchysis' (often attended with shrinking of the eyeball) is an unnatural fluidity of the vitreous humour, apparently from the breaking up and absorption of its containing tissue; it may or may not be also discoloui-ed. The eye feels soft and flaccid, the iris is peculiarly tremulous, shaking backwards and forwards like a rag in a bottle of water, the retina becomes insensible, and the lens opaque. This affec- tion is sometimes the result of wounds or concussions, and sometimes comes on without obvious cause. It is supposed to depend on slow in- flammation. It is irremediable. It sometimes follows operations for cataract in which the needle has been too freely used. But although * Mackenzie, Edin. Med. and Surg. Joum., No. 164.