CANCER. 114 from the lungs has been stated to contain from 80 to 90 per cent, of carbon ; to resist sulphuric acid ; and to be converted by the nitric acid, and by chlorine, into a brown substance resembling ulmine. The surgical relations of pigment are these,—1st. It is often to be met with in degenerating growths of any kind. 2ndly. It is of frequent occurrence in those small patches of hypertrophied skin called moles. Srdly. It is often abundant in cancer; so much so as to constitute a variety, called melanotic, or black cancer. 4thly. There is a melanic diathesis in which large quantities of pigment may be deposited or in- filtrated through many organs in the same individual, either alone or in conjunction with fibrous or fibro-plastic elements. This is a very com- mon malady in old bay and gray horses. But although these tumours may pervade the entire body, and occasionally soften, they have no other malignity. See Melanic Cancer. SECTION IX.—CANCER. Definition.—Cancer is a disease evidenced by the development of 'peculiar cells, called cancer cells, or of their nuclei. These, combined with a liquid, or semi-liquid substance, called the cancerous juice, and contained either in a stroma of new fibrous tissue, or in the interstices of some other already-existing tissue, constitute a cancerous growth. The common characters of all cancerous growths, are the fifteen cha- racters of malignancy which we have given at page 99. t Cancer Cells.—These, which form the characteristic element of cancer, are, in their best examples, regular spheres, about ^^j^ inch in diameter, with an oval excentric nucleus, occupying the half or more of the interior, and containing one or more large nucleoli. The outline of the cell is pale and fine—that of the nucleus, bold and well marked ; the contents of the cell finely granular. Acetic acid renders the cell pale and transparent, and the nucleus more distinct. But from the typical form there are many variations,—for the cancer cell may vary in size from the to the ^oVo of an inch ; in shape it may be ovoid, triangular, fusiform, or elongated into one or more spurs, exhibiting a much greater variety of form than any other known cell; * Cancer cells traced by the author with the camera; magnified 200 diameters, a, nuclei; scale of -ooi inch. t Typical Cancer cells and nuclei from nature.