OVAKIOTOMY. 537 away its secreting power, and cause tlie cyst to wither. The pain which follows the injection may be relieved by opium, and fomentations. But it stands to reason that this is not a radical remedy, and that it is not a safe remedy, unless there be but one cyst. To ascertain the last point. Dr. Gi-aily Hewitt uses an exploring sound, which may be passed into the interior of the cyst, through the canula of a trocar; which is provided with an india-rubber diaphragm to prevent the escape of the liquid, till the whole interior of the cyst has been exploied.* {g) There is another operation of fair promise which was proposed by Dr. Tanner, for cases in which the presence of extensive adhesions renders it impossible to remove the cyst. This consists in tying tightly the pedicle of the tumour after the fluid has been removed by tapping. Thus it may be hoped, that whilst the supply of blood furnished to the cyst by its adhesions will be sufficient to prevent gangrene, the ob- struction of the main arterial channel might prevent the fluid from being secreted anew. 3. Ovariotomy.—The remaining remedy is extirpation. But before describing the operation we must, as a part of the history of our pro- fession, give an account of the objections which have been raised against it. Some of these were fair enough twenty years ago, and were raised in thorough good faith. The early difficulties and misadventures of ovariotomists appeared great; and it was fair enough to say, that although the disease did lead to a miserable death by itself, that this was no reason for submitting the patient to a cruel and hopeless operation . The increased skill in diagnosis, the improved details of treatment, nay, the general improvement of all surgery, have now done away with these objections in the minds of rational men. But our profession, like every other, contains a few persons whose bigotry and prejudice are invincible. They admit that they cannot themselves remove this burden on their fellow-creatures' lives, and yet, like the old Pharisees, they will not allow any one else to try. With minds thoroughly fossilized, incapable of making one advance in science themselves, their sole pleasure is to revile those who do; to excite odium against them ; to use vituperative expressions, such as " belly-ripping," where argu- ment fails; and to delight themselves in the miserable notoriety which they gain by their frantic attacks on scientific men. Such men continue to rail against ovariotomy, as they do against every other improvement. Let us, then, see what objections can now, or may have been formerly raised against ovariotomy. They were threefold. First, the difficulty of diagnosis] as proofs of which used to be cited a number of cases in which the belly was laid open for what was no ovarian tumour at all. Secondly, the impos- sibility, in some cases, of removing the tumour, through adhesions, even though it were ovarian. Thii-dly, the mortality. In support of these objections there used to be cited the case of four patients operated * See remarks by Dr. Simpson quoted in Prov. Med. Journ., 1854, p. 1067 ; case by Spencer Wells, and description of Dr. Graily Hewitt's instrument, Med. Times, 1859, vol. i., p. 549.