FRACTUKE OF THE PATELLA. 283 patient are, the feeling as of a blow or sudden snap, and inability to straighten the knee. The surgeon, on examination, finds a chink be- tween the broken parts, into which he can press his fin- ger, and which is increased by bending the knee. This, as we have already said, is one of the fractures in which it is very difficult to produce reunion by bone, in consequence of the diffi- culty of bringing the broken surfaces into exact appo- sition. And not only so, but even when the patient's recovery is considered com- plete, the fragments are apt to be left in a state of very wide separation ; the power of the extensors, and, con- sequently, of straightening the knee, and of keeping it straight, is lessened or almost lost, and the patient is not only lame, but in constant danger of falling, and of again rupturing the connec- tion between the fragments, or else of breaking the opposite patella. The exact pathology of this accident has been very minutely studied by Mr. William Adams, who has shown, in the first place, that th e fragments may be united by true ligamentous substance, a firm mass of new tissue, generally from half an inch to an inch long, and passing between the broken surfaces. This is represented in the diagram A (p. 284); and if the ligament is short, the cure is a good one. But, in the second place, Mr. W. Adams has shown that in the cases in which the patient recovers with wide separation of the frag- ments (and in some cases this is so much as four or five inches), there is no ligamentous union at all; but the fragments are merely held together by the subcutaneous fascia in a thickened condition. So that what is commonly called union by a long ligament is in reality no union at all. * This cut represents an old fracture of the patella, with wide separation of the fragments. The patient fractured the bone twice. The first time he was treated with bandages, &c., to bring the broken parts together, and they united well. The second time the limb was laid in an easy position without bandages. The result is here shown:—The upper fragment high up in front of the femur ; the lower one down in front of the tibia; the power of extending the joint lost. When the knee is bent, as in the above cut, the condyles of the femur are seen with the skin tightly stretched over them.