ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 41 to be placed in a trough or piece of oilcloth, with a piece of lint on the inflamed part. A large vessel of cold water being then placed on a table by the bedside, one end of a broad strip of cloth should be dipped in the water, and the other end (which should be cut to a point) laid on the lint; and so the water will be carried in a constant gentle stream down to the inflamed part. Cold is well adapted to inflamma- tions of the head, and of the skin or external parts : but if it should not be agreeable to the patient, tepid or warm applications should be sub- stituted. 5. To control changes in the exuded fluids and new cell growth.— There are some remedies which are believed to have the power either of destroying or removing that element in the blood which is the cause of disease, or else of so acting upon the morbid effusions as to cause their dispersion and absorption. Mercury is the chief remedy of this class; and the popular doctrine is, that, in acute inflammation, espe- cially of serous or parenchymatous structures, mercury causes absorp- tion of lymph, or of the effused fluids; and that for this purpose it should be administered in repeated doses, with sufficient opium to pre- vent it from running off by the bowels, and that it should be continued till the mouth is affected. F. 62—67 will show the common mode of administration. This plan of giving mercury crept in at the beginning of the present century. One of the earliest notices of it is given by Sir J. M'Grigor, who considered it as much a cure for hepatitis as for syphilis. It was also largely used in tropical dysentery, and was given unsparingly till the patient was salivated.* Indian practitioners abused it largely. The author believes that the absorbefacient and antiphlogistic vir- tues of mercury have been grossly exaggerated, except in the case of syphilitic inflammation of the eyeball. All salivation is a cruelty and a mischief. The author has seen low pneumonia arise in a case where the system was thoroughly impregnated with mercury. Hence it is no antidote. The truth seems to be: 1st. That much of the benefit arising from " calomel and opium " is due to the opium. 2ndly. That the calomel does good to some extent, as an eliminative. 3rdly. That mercury possesses some absorbent or rectifying virtue, in lingering in- flammations ; but that very small doses suffice. F. 63. In the case of children, calomel should be given in continuous doses, till it causes green, chopped-spinach-like stools. Tartar emetic may be used either in nauseating doses, F. 68, to depress the heart's action and cause perspiration, or else in emetic doses, to purify the blood by vomit and stool and promote expectoration ; or it may be combined with purgatives, of which it greatly increases the action, F. 40, or with mercury, F. 62, or lastly, as a direct antiphlo- gistic, after the manner invented by Marryatt, and detailed under F. 68 in the Appendix. Antimony, like bleeding, is best adapted for the early stage of inflammation, before effusion has occurred. * Sir J. M'Grigor's Medical Slcetches, Lend. 1804, p. 174. Dr. Farre, Sen. Theory of the Action of Mercury, in Dr. Ferguson's Essay on Puerperal Fever.