382 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. of standing at ease on the right leg, with the left knee a little bent; a common habit with all persons who stand long. By this means the left side of the pelvis is thrown up, and the right shoulder raised. Awkward one-sided postures in sitting whilst writing, or at needle- work, are also causes. We may add, that there are some circumstances which may possibly cause distortion, even in the healthiest adult; such as one leg being shorter than the other, or walking with a wooden leg. Why one-sided postures should cause distortion must be evident, when it is considered that the intervertebral substance is compressible, to such an extent, that an adult man of middle stature loses about an inch of his height after having been in the erect posture during the day, and does not regain it till after some hours of rest. " Since the united thickness of the intervertebral substance in an adult man is about 3 • 875 inches," we see that tliey lose nearly one-fourth by com- pression, which they do not recover till after some hours of rest. But if the weight of the body falls unequally on the spine day after day, it must be evident that they will become compressed on one side more than on the other; and that if their elasticity be impaired, and the muscles and ligaments be weak, and the bones soft, as they are in young persons who have not a sufficiency of fresh air, wholesome food, and active exercise, this lateral distortion will become permanent.* Curvature from Rickets.—There is another form of curvature from debility, which chiefly affects young children of the lower orders, and arises from rickets. It is generally distinguished by the general rickety aspect of the patient (vide p. 239), and by the distortion of the limbs that is also present, as well as by the circumstance that the spine is not simply curved laterally, as de- scribed above, but is often curved directly forwards ; the seat of this curvature being the upper part of the back ; or perhaps it may be curved backwards. Treatmeiit.—The flrst and most essential measure is to strengthen the bones and muscles, by means of good diet, sea air, steel, cod-liver oil, or phosphate of lime, F. 201 ; the shower-bath ; sluicing the back with cold salt and water in the morning ; a hard mattress instead of a soft feather-bed ; early rising, * Bishop, Lancet, 1846, vol. i., p. 215. t From a preparation of Mr. Fergusson's, in the King's College Museum.