ACUTE TETAKUS. to cold damp night air during warm weather, or in a warm climate ; consequently, tetanus is much more prevalent and fatal in India and other warm than in cold or temperate climates. The same causes, cold and visceral irritation, namely, which pre- dispose to the traumatic, may of themselves produce the idiopathic tetanus. Thus the latter may be a consequence of various visceral irri- tations, especially of the womb. Whytt gives the case of a girl, aged twenty, who caught cold during the menstrual period, and died of tetanus in eighteen hours; and the author knows a case in which fatal ti'ismus followed abortion.* Tetanus may also be caused by certain poisons, especially the nux vomica. Pathology.—The spasms of tetanus affecting as they do all the voluntary muscles, must evidently depend on some morbid condition of that central organ, the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, from which all the voluntary muscles are supplied with nerves. What that con- dition is, is unknown. It is most probably dependent on a peculiar state of blood, inasmuch as we know that when blood containing strychnine circulates through the nervous centres, it causes tetanic symptoms. There is the further argument from analogy, that inas- much as chorea has a decided alliance with rheumatism, so may tetanus with some similar blood-disease. Or it may depend on some disturb- ance in nervous action, independently of the blood, of which we are profoundly ignorant. Such nervous disturbance may be centric, that is, may depend on causes affecting the spinal marrow itself; or excentric, that is to say, may depend on irritation of some other part of the body, which irritation is conveyed to the spinal cord by the sentient or afferent, or, in Dr. Hall's language, excito-motor nerves. It is quite certain that the morbid condition cannot be regarded as inflammatory in the ordinary sense of the word, because the spinal cord is often found after death without a trace of vascularity, and because tetanus may be established during a state of depression and collapse that would be quite incompatible with inflammation. Although, however, it is most certain that inflammation is not essential to the existence of tetanus,, still it is equally certain that there is one class of tetanic cases which presents a well-marked in- flammatory character. They commence with shivering and pain, ai-e attended with fever, and, if fiital, display on inspection, congestion, serous effusion, softening or purulent deposit, in some part of the brain or spinal cord.f But this class is a small one. Treatment.—The indications are, 1st, To remove, so far as we are able, all conditions, known or believed to have the power of creating the tetanic state; 2nd, To give the patient every chance of spontaneous recovery, by husbanding his strength till the disease shall cease of itself; 3rd, To use any special sedative or other treatment, which the surgeon * See Cooke's Morgagni, vol. i. p. 129 ; and the Lancet for June 2nd, 1838. f For cases of inflammatory tetanus, vide Med. Gaz. vol. i. p. 645; Foumier- Pescay, op. cit.; Burmester in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii.