INFLAMMATION. 35 Bright's disease. Cold is a frequent cause of inflammation. It checks the secretion of the sJvin and deranges the chemical actions going on in the blood. The organs which first receive the chilled blood, viz., the lungs, are the first to suffer, then the gelatinous tissues, bones, joints, &c., as in rheumatism. Grief and anxiety of mind impoverish the blood and poison it with effete matter. Lastly, embolism, the transplan- tation of venous clots, or of concretions from the heart. Clots from the veins, after parturition or severe injury, or clots which form in limbs (Edematous and motionless as in phthisis, may find their way to the heart, and if not large enough to block up the pulmonary artery will be carried into the lung and create disease. The fact that the lungs receive venous blood, which may be chilled or mixed with putrescent matters from a wound, renders it wonderful that they do not inflame oftener than they do. There is the term metastasis employed to signify, not the successive participation of several organs in one general inflammatory attack, as in rheumatism, but the cessation of inflammation in one part, and its transference to another; as, when in gout, pain in the heart or stomach ceases if the great toe become inflamed. SECTION VI.—CAUSES AND VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. The Varieties of inflammation depend on the cause, and on the kind of constitution conjointly. Thus we read of Sthenic, or active inflammation, which is the disease as it affects a vigorous person. Asthenic, or low, or weak, which is the disease of a weak, asthenic person: or which may be produced by certain causes of a lowering nature, as hospital air, and other poisons. It is more obstinate and less amenable to treatment than the active or sthenic. Common inflammation is that which may be produced by ordinary causes in most individuals. Specific inflammation requires a specific set of causes, chiefly animal poisons, or a peculiar state of blood, and cannot be produced at will. The chief specific inflammations are gout, rheumatism, syphilis, scrofula, diphtherite, erysipelas, phlegmasia dolens, glanders; boil and carbuncle; erythema nodosum, eczema, lepra, and most skin diseases. It must be laid down as an axiom that every different cause produces its own specific set of consequences. This point is very clearly stated by Dr. Budd.* Take inflammation of the knee-joint for an example. If caused by a penetrating wound, with admission of air, rapid suppura- tion and destruction of the joint usually follow. If caused by the pre- sence of pus or decaying fibrine in the blood, there will be little swelling, but suppuration so rapid as to encourage the belief that the pus, instead of being formed in the joint, is brought there. If caused by rheuma- tism, there is severe pain, and much effusion; but that effused fluid is never purulent, and is almost always absorbed as the patient recovers. If of gouty origin, there is more pain and considerable effusion, which * On Diseases of the Liver, 2nd ed. Ijond. 1852, p. 65.