406 GONORKHCEAL OPHTHALMIA. of the last species; but the disease seems to begin in the ocular rather than in the palpebral conjunctiva, the chemosis is greater, lymph being generally eft'used into the subconjunctival areolar tissue, the discharge thicker and more abundant, the constitutional disturbance more severe, and the cornea much more apt to slough. It is sometimes said that one eye only is usually affected, not both, as in the Egyptian variety ; but both eyes are often affected, although usually at an interval of a few days, and that which is attacked last generally suffers the least. Cause.—This disease arises without doubt from the application of gonorrhoea! matter from the urethra to the eye. Prognosis.—This is very unfavourable. The sight of the affected eye will either be lost, or excessively impaired, unless treatment be very early and efficacious. Diagnosis.—If a patient applies with violent conjunctivitis, and there is a suspicion that he has a clap and has infected his eye, the surgeon should insist on an examination of the penis, however strongly the patient may deny the fact of his having any disease. Consequences.—The most frequent and detrimental is sloughing of the cornea. The sloughing generally occurs quite suddenly; the cornea may be clear in the morning—cloudy and flaccid in the evening —and by the next morning it may have burst; and this change may supervene at any time ti-om the second day of the disease till the last. After this has occurred, the swelling of the lids subsides, the discharge diminishes and becomes thinner, and the pain greatly abates. If the slough is very small, the iris may protrude, and close the aperture, im- perfect sight remaining,—but generally the greater part of the cornea perishes; a fibrous deposit takes place on the iris, and becoming dis- tended produces staphyloma: and all useful sight is lost. Treatment.—There are three sets of measures which maybe adopted in this very hazardous disease; viz., antiphlogistic remedies, scarifica- tions, and astringents. If the patient applies at the very commencement, the use of an alum or a nitrate-of-silver lotion several times a day, indeed every hour, and fomentations of poppy, together with a low diet, antimony, and confine- ment to bed, may suffice to check the disease. But if the disease has reached its height, and there is great fever and headache, with full bounding pulse, it may be right to bleed locally by means of leeches to the temples, to purge, and to administer nauseating doses of antimony, and Dover's powder, at bedtime, to allay pain. The patient must be kept in bed, in a darkened room, with the head elevated, and on low diet. But experience has shown that antiphlogistic measures are not very generally applicable in the treatment of this uisease. Indeed, in the contagious form, there is often an amount of prostration, moral and physical, which lequires the most active tonic treatment from the very commencement. In such cases, quinine, ammonia, nourishing diet, and alcoholic stimulants, may save a cornea which would inevitably slough were a depressing treatment adopted. If these measures, combined with the local applications to be mentioned