INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 759 it is always raised along with the peritoneum, the two being closely united. Having gained the soft brim of the pelvis, the operator may seek the external iliac, and if not very much diseased, it will be readily found, and form a good guide to the common trunk. The sheath of the vessel must be opened just above the bifurcation, and the needle be passed, if possible, from within to without.* Another, or posterior operation, was proposed by Sir P. Crampton.t It has not yet been successful, but is certainly not without apparent merits. By it the peritoneum is very much less disturbed, and the vessel is fully exposed. The walls of the abdomen, too, are opened at a part where it is less likely that hernia will ensue. But further trial must determine its merit. The following is the manner in which it was performed by Mr. Stanley at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in 1846, as detailed by Mr. Si<ey. The patient, a middle-aged man, was placed on the operating-table, with his body inclined over to the right or sound side. The shoulders and trunk were bent a little forwards, for the purpose of rendering the lumbar integument tense. The line of the last false rib having been ascertained, an incision of three or four inches in length was made from its cartilage or nearly its point, in a line downwards, and somewhat forwards, to the crista ilii. The skin and fascia, then the external oblique, internal oblique, and ti'ansversalis muscles were singly and successively divided. The external incision was then carried along the line of the crista ilii, to the extent of about three inches more, and the division of the three muscles from the bone completed. There was but little blood lost. Returning to the situation of the first incision, Mr. Stanley then divided the transversalis fascia to the entire limit of the external wound. He then raised the mass of intestine enveloped in the peritonaeum, and pushed it inwards, bringing into view the psoas magnus, left ureter, and finally the common iliac artery, around which he passed a ligature, without apparent difficulty. III. The Internal Iliac Artery.—Of the seven cases in which this artery has been tied for disease of its branches four have recovered. The operation is necessarily attended with the greatest difficulty, on account of the position of surrounding parts. The internal iliac vein is closely in contact with the artery, each vein being a little posterior to the corresponding artery and to its right side, while each artery crosses the course of the external iliac vein. Then the internal iliac veins have their coats very thin, they lie loosely about the artery, and * The common iliac artery was tied by Mr. A. M. Edwards, of Edinburgh, in a case in which an aneurysm of the external iliac artery had burst internally, and the patient was bleeding to death. Mr. Edwards made the incisions de- scribed in the text, and with great difficulty reached the common iliac artery through a mass of clots, with his left forefinger. Having commanded the artery, the clots were turned out, and a ligature passed. Unluckily the patient died of secondary hemorrhage from the ruptured aneurysm. Possibly he might have recovered had a ligature been placed also below the aneurysm ; but at all events, imminent death was averted, and life prolonged for twentj'-four days. Edinburgh Med. Journal, Jan., 1858. t Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xvi.