DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 398 dissected clean off the cartilage, and the edges of the wound brought together by sutures.* VI. Ectropion, or eversion of the eyelid, may be caused, 1. By a - ^Ajc^enm^ of the conjunc- tion that ensues; and it may be necessary besides to cut out a tri- angular slip from the tarsus. In the aged, the eyelid falls down from paralysis, and the exposed conjunctiva becomes thickened. 2. It may be caused by a cicatrix on the cheek,—that resulting from a burn, for instance. But by far the most common cause is the cicatrization result- ing from the healing of abscesses at the edge of the orbit. Various operations have been suggested and practised for its removal, one of which consists of the removal of the cicatrix, and the subsequent trans- plantation of a portion of skin from the temple or the cheek, after the manner described in the observation on lost noses. It is a simpler and better plan to transpose the skin, as Mr. Walton calls it,—that is, to separate it freely to a considerable extent around, draw it to the position required, and retain it by sutures. It may also be necessary to I'emove a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsal cartilage. VII. Lagophthalmos (hare eye) signifies an inability to close the palpebrje. Sometimes it arises from the contraction of cicatrices, and requires the same treatment as ectropion, when arising from the same cause. But it sometimes depends upon inaction of the orbicularis muscle, thi'ough palsy of the portio-dura; so that the levator palpebrse being unopposed, keeps the eye open. This may be caused by exposure to cold—on the outside of a coach, for instance : in which case it is at- tended with numbness of the cheek, and generally subsides in a few days with aperients, nursing, and perhaps a blister behind the ear. But it may be caused by a tumour in the course of the nerve ; by disease of the part of the temporal bone through which it passes ; or by congestion within the head, like the following disease :— VIII. Ptosis signifies a falling of the upper eyelid from palsy of the third nerve. Sometimes it is attended with headache, giddiness, and * Vide Wilde on Entropion and Trichiasis, Dublin Jouvn. Med. Sc., March, 1844; Haynes Walton, Operative Ophthalmic Surgery, Lend. 1853, p. 157. ttva, owing to long-continued inflammation. The weak ung. hydr. nitric, oxyd., or lotion of arg, nit. (gr. ii. ad ^i.), may be tried first, in order to bring the con- junctiva into a healthy state; but if they do not succeed, a portion of the thickened conjunctiva must be removed by a careful dis- section along the edge of the lid ; so that the parts may be braced up by the contrac- \