642 VARIOUS KINDS OF STONE. 2. There are few remedies comparable to change of air, including, as it must, change of diet, water, habits, and occupation, for the cure of all disorders of mal-assirailation. 3, Alkalies, such as F. 77, 79, may be given in small doses after meals to the infinite comfort of the stomach, if the patient complains of sour eructations, flushed face, flatulence, &c,, and this, no matter whether the urine is ammoniacal or not. 4. But the most important medicines are Tonics. Of these one of the most useful is the nitromuriatic acid, F. 22, which may always be given with benefit on an empty stomach, if the patient likes it; if he feels that it takes away that nauseous, flabby, alkaline condition of mouth which so commonly accompanies a low digestive power. But the other mineral acids—bark, quinine, nux vomica, and other bitters ; the sulphates of zinc and iron; and the muriated tincture of iron—will all be found useful. 5. Conium, or even opium, introduced into the rectum as a sup- pository is sometimes necessary to allay local irritation, especially in phosphatic and oxalic case^. It may also be necessary as a means of procuring sleep, and preventing the nervous system from being worn out by its own irritability. 6. The diet should consist of those sub- stances which are most readily convertible into good flesh and blood, and least liable to undergo degenei-ation during their solution in the stomach. Meat, good soup, milk, eggs, good bread, cruciferous vege- tables—brandy and water, pale sherry, good Bordeaux, and bitter ale— show the kind of substances to be preferred; and pastry, sago, slops, and bad wine the things to be avoided. SECTION IX.—THE VARIOUS KINDS OF STONE. The various deposits spoken of in the preceding section may, as we observed, lodge in some part of the urinary organs, and concrete into stone. There are altogether fourteen species, many of which are exces- sively rare. The principal ones are, the lithic, phosphatic, and mul- berry. I. Lithic Acid stones are genei-ally oval, flattened, fawn or maho- gany coloured, and on a section are seen to be composed of concentric laminae. Tests.—This acid may be dissolved by boiling in liqiior potassa;; it burns away almost entirely befoi'e the blowpipe with an odour of burnt hom, and if digested in a small quantity of nitric acid, and evaporated at a very gentle heat, it leaves a residue, which, when cold, becomes purple, if exposed to the vapour of ammonia (murexide). II. Lithate op Ammonia rarely forms a stone, because it is tole- rably soluble in warm urine. Tests.—It may be known by the same tests as the preceding, and, besides, it evolves ammonia when treated by liq. potassse. III. Phosphate of Lime or bone-earth stones are rare. They are pale brown, friable, and laminated. Tests.—Soluble in nitric or muri- atic acids, and precipitated by liq. ammonias; quite infusible. (Beale.) IV. Triple Phosphate (o/ammonia and magnesia) i'orms white or pale-gray stones, composed of small brilliant crystals. Tests.—Evolves