FIBRO-NUCLEATED TUMOUR. 104 bodies from "OOl to '003 inch, enclosing from two to ten or twelve fibro-plastic nuclei. These cells are called myeloid by Paget, from their resemblance to cells found in the marrow of foetal bones; and the tumours in which they are formed he also calls myeloid. 5. Fibrillary matter, more or less perfectly developed into tissue, inclosing the cellular elements ; sometimes very scanty, sometimes abundant, soft, and gelatinous [fibro-gelatinous, or fibro-colloid tumour). 6. Well- developed areolar tissue enveloping the tumour, and forming boundaries to its various lobules. In external characters, fibro-plastic tumours are usually smooth, lobulated, and globular. They may be situated in the skin ; in the subcutaneous, or submucous, areolar tissue ; deep amongst the muscles (especially of the thigh), in or upon bone, especially the maxillae ; or on the dura mater ; or in the mamma or other secreting glands, or in the lymphatic glands. They generally, but not always, grow slowly ; they may attain enormous size ; may undergo calcihcation; or may inflame and ulcerate, or slough, and so prove fatal. They usually are single ; may occur at any age ; they sometimes seem to arise fi om a syphilitic taint. As regards origin, some seem to follow an obscure inflammation, which has produced exudation into a lymphatic gland, or the testis. Others are of independent spontaneous or unknown origin. If extirpated they are exceedingly apt (much more so than the fibrous tumour) to return in the cicatrix, but very raiely in any other part; yet they may do so, or may be diffused over the system in the same manner that cancer is. The tumours most likely to become thus malignant are those of spontaneous origin, which yield most varieties of embryonic cell-forms. Fibro-plastic elements are also found in abundance in glandular, and most other rapidly-growing tumours. The treatment consists in extirpation, repeated if the disease returns; and the prolonged use of iodide of potassium. Some fibro-plastic tumours soften down and become converted into the thin purulent and flaky contents of scrofulous abscess ; a few disappear spontaneously. V. The FiBRO-NUCLEATED TUMOUR, of * Hughes Bennett, is a tumour composed of fila- ^^^^^^^gf' mentis infiltrated with abundance of naked nuclei. i^^^^^^^^^r In outward appearance it may resemble the ...z^^^^""^ fibrous, or fibro-plastic tumour, or cancer ; but micioscopically exa- mined the presence of nuclei, instead of cells or fibres, distinguishes it from the former two growths, and the absence of cancer cells from the last. Its clinical history is identical with that of the former tumours. VI. The Fibroid Tumour is one in which the cell elements have developed themselves into a coarse resemblance of fibres. VII. The Fibrinous Tumour is composed of almost structureless decolorised blood-clot, and is the result of extravasation of blood. It forms a soft tumour, and may generally be distinguished by its history and by its sudden origin. A tumour formed of extravasated blood * Fibre-nucleated turaour. From an ass.