FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 260 parts ; a circumstance which should be looked to, if there is much The patient for the first fortnight must be fed en- tirely with broth, gruel, bread-pap, &c. The cure generally occupies five or six weeks. III. Fracture of THE Clavicle is most frequently situated at the middle of the bone, and is generally caused by falls on the arm or shoul- der, when it is usually ob- lique in direction; some- times, however, by direct violence, when it is gene- rally situated near the acromial extremity, and transverse to the axis of the bone. When fracture of the acromial end of this bone is situated between the coraco-acromial ligaments, there is very little displacement, and often little or no crepitus from impaction of the fragments) but when the fracture is external to these ligaments, the acromial extremity of the bone is apt to turn round at right angles to the sternal portion.* Symptoms.—The patient complains of inability to lift the affected arm, and supports it at the elbow; the shoulder sinks downwards, forwards, and inwards ; the distance from the acromion to the sternum is less than it is on the sound side ;—and the end of the sternal frag- ment of the bone projects as though it were displaced, although it is not so in reality, but merely appears to be so, in consequence of the sinking of the shoulder and of the outer fragment. Treatment.—The shoulder must be raised, and must be supported in a direction upwards, backwat^ds, and outwards. The broken parts may be reduced, either by putting the knee between the scapulae and drawing the shoulders backwards ; or by placing the elbow close to the trunk and a little forwards, and then pushing it upwards. To support the parts during the cure, the most common apparatus is— The stellate, or figure-of-8 bandage, represented in the cut (p. 261). In the fii-st place a thick wedge-shaped pad must be put into the axilla, with the large end uppermost. Then a long roller must be passed over each shoulder alternately, and be made to cross on the back. In the next place, the arm must be confined to the side by two or three turns of * A Treatise on Fractures in the vicinity of Joints, by Robert William Smith, M.D. &c. Dublin, 1847. A most complete and masterly work. difficulty in fitting them together.