405 GONOREHCEAL OPHTHALMIA. eyeball; because if the cornea is beginning to suppurate, it might easily be burst, and the lens be squeezed out. The bowels should be cleared with a grain of calomel or gray powder, followed by a little castor-oil or I'hubarb. If the disease has been neglected, and there is great tume- faction, a leech maybe appHed to the temple, and halfa grain of calomel be given every eight hours, for three or four doses. If the insides of the lids become thickened, a condition called granular conjunctiva, which never happens unless too strong a lotion has been used, the proper plan is to leave the injured eye alone, and to lay a few threads of cotton, spread with blistering plaster, between the external ear and the head, so as to create a discharge. If the cornea ulcerate or slough, or if the discharge be obstinate, tonics are required (quin. sulph. gr. fs. —vel ext. cinchon. gr. iii. ex lacte), and the astringent collyria should be persevered with. IV. Purulent Ophthalmia in Adults {Contagious or Egyptian Ophthalmia). Symptoms.—This disease begins with stiffness, itching, and watering of the eye, with a sense of dust in it, and slight swelling of the lids, which stick together during sleep, and on examination of their internal surface, the palpebral conjunctiva is found to be intensely red, thick, and villous, like a foetal stomach injected. As the disease advances, the conjunctiva covering the globe becomes also intensely red, swollen, and villous, and discharges a copious secretion of pus. The swelling of the ocular conjunctiva is called chemosis. It is produced by effusion of serum and lymph into the cellular tissue which connects the conjunctiva to the sclerotic; and it elevates the conjunctiva into a kind of roll around the margin of the cornea, which sometimes overlaps it entirely. These symptoms are accompanied with severe burning pain, extending to the cheek and temple, and great headache, fever, and pros- tration ; the palpebral also are swollen, tense, and shining, so that the patient cannot open the eye. Consequences.—This affection may lead to ulceration or sloughing of the cornea; and very commonly to some impairment of vision, from ex- tension of inflammation to the internal parts of the globe. Causes.—It may be produced by severe local iiTitation, as the intro- duction of lime, for instance, or a blow. It is endemic in Egypt, owing to the glaring sunshine and the particles of sand with which the air is loaded. It may also be produced by the close damp atmosphere, saturated with animal vapour that results from crowding many persons together in a confined space, and fi'om the neglect of cleanliness and ventilation ; hence, its prevalence amongst the military in barracks; in ischools; and on board ship—especially amongst the wretched inmates of slave-ships. But when once produced, by any cause whatever, it is most probably both contagious and infectious; that is, capable of being propagated both by contact with the purulent secretion, and by exposure to the floating particles of pus in the air of crowded and fetid dormi- tories. V. Gonorrhceal Ophthalmia is the most violent form of puru- lent conjunctivitis. The symptoms are essentially the same as those