CATARACT. 424 perfect a state of health as possible. The state of the biliary, and more especially of the urinary excretion, should be examined, and purging, exercise, and low diet be enjoined, if the habit is inflammatory. But no rude lowei'ing measures, or violent purgation, or sudden change of diet should be resorted to indiscriminately; and many patients require a better diet, with tonics and wine. There are three established methods of operating for cataract;— 1, extraction; 2, displacement (or couching); and 3, solution, or the operation for causing absorption. Two new operations have lately been introduced, linear exti action, and Sc/mft's operation. These appear to be still on their trial. I. Extraction.—The object of this operation is, to make an inci- sion through half of the circumference of the cornea, almost close to the sclerotic ; to lacerate the capsule of the lens ; and then to extract the cataract entire, through the pupil. Its advantage is, that it effec- tually removes the cataract; but it is the most difficult of all the operations for cataract, and demands, for its success, much knowledge and much practice. It is best adapted for hard cataracts in elderly people. But it should not be attempted, 1st. If the patient is very feeble, in case the wound of the cornea might not unite. 2ndly. If the anterior chamber is very small and the cornea very flat, so that a sufficiently large opening cannot be made in it. 3rdly. If the iris adheres to the cornea, or if the cataract pushes it forward against the cornea, thus rendering it impossible to incise the cornea without wound- ing the iris, or if the pupil is habitually contracted. 4thly. If the eye is sunken, or if the fissure of the lids is preternaturally small. 5thly. If the eyes are very unsteady, or if the patient is subject to habitual cough or asthma, or is unmanageable in consequence of idiocy. Some practitioners direct that one eye only should be operated on at a time, the other being kept as a reserve, whilst others operate on both together. Operation.—In the precise manner of performing this, there are very many varieties. Some surgeons incise the lower, others the upper, part of the cornea; some sit before, others behind the patient; some are ambidexter, others use the right hand only. But, referring those who The instruments required are, 1, u knife having a triangular blade ; M may wish for fuller information to the various works on ophthalmology before quoted, p. 419, we shall content ourselves with describing one method of operating, which is, we believe, most generally em- ployed at the present day.