PARTICULAR FRACTURES. 258 necessary, the wound may be dilated for this purpose. If suffered to remain, they greatly aggravate the inflammation and danger of tetanus, and may produce long-continued disease of the bone. If the pro- truding bone or its periosteum be not injured, and the size of the wound does not permit it to be replaced, the wound may be dilated for that purpose. After reduction, the great object is to close the wound as nicely as possible, so as to heal it up, and to convert the compound fracture into a simple one, and the best application is a piece of lint dipped in blood, collodion, or in compound tincture of benzoin; then bandages and splints are to be used. If necessary, the splints should have apertures corresponding to the Avound, so that it may be dressed without disturbance to the whole limb. When swelling comes on, the bandages must be loosened, and cold be applied if agi'eeable. Pain and restlessness must be relieved by full doses of opium; thirst by saUne draughts, F. 58; and the bowels be opened, if necessary, and if it can be done without disturbance. The catheter should be used, if required. But perhaps reaction is not fully esta- blished.—" We notice irregular action of the heart; the pulse does not rise as it should do; in the state of sympathetic fever the artery is left subdilated, weak, and its beats are fluttering and uncertain; the tongue is coated to a certain degree; the expression of the countenance agitated, and unsteady in its direction ; and the sensorium seems faltering iu its powers. The patient does not clearly understand his real state, and usually declares that he feels well; he does not sleep much, and is wandering when he does. The wound is dry, and the parts about it assume an ashen colour, with the feel of pufiiness in the parts about it.' * For this condition brandy and beef-tea are the remedies. The great object in the subsequent ti-eatment is to prevent the lodgment of matter, by sponging and pressing it out carefully at each dressing, syringing with weak zinc lotion, and applying compresses to prevent its aceumu- lation, and, if required, by making depending openings for its discharge. But if, notwithstanding the employment of tonics, wine, and good diet, the patient seems likely to sink under the discharge and irritation, ampu- tation is the last resource. SECTION XI.—PARTICULAR FRACTURES. T. Fractures of the Ossa Nasi, and of the Malar and Superior Maxillary Bones, may be produced by violent blows or falls on the face, or by gunshot injuries. Treatment.—Any displacement of the fractured portions should be rectified as soon as possible, by passing a strong probe or female cathe- ter up the nostril, and by manipulation with the fingers. A depressed fragment may often be conveniently raised by passing one blade of a dressing forceps up the nostril, and applying the other externally, so as to grasp the fragment between them. Some practitioners are in the habit of introducing tubes or plugs of oiled lint, in order to keep * Vincent, op. cit. p. 127.