DISEASES OP THE RECTOM AND ANUS. 590 may last permanently, and lead to organic thickening and stricture of the anus. It is very frequently connected with ,piles, or with fissure of the anus, or ulcer just within it. Proctalgia, or neuralgia of the anus, is a very common disorder of children and of gouty adults, and in either case is best treated by purgatives. ]V. Fissure op the Anus is a small chap, or crack, or ulcer, giving intense pain during the passage of the motions, frequently continuing two, four, or even eight hours after the evacuation. Introduction of the finger causes greater suffering in this than in any other affection of the rectum. A piece of hypertrophied skin, probably the remains of an external pile, and generally situated behind, leads, in many in- stances, to the fissure. Immense relief is produced by free purgation. If, after a fair trial of purgatives, and the local use of sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, or of tannin lotion, or ointment of galls with lead, the symptoms continue unabated, recourse must be had to the knife. (See next paragraph.) V. Ulcer of the Rectum, if influenced by the sphincter muscle, is seldom cured without the use of the knife. If, however, it be situated at a distance, and out of reach of the action of the muscle, it may heal up by the local application of stimulants, and attentive regulation of the bowels. In the first place, probably a dose or two of calomel, followed by castor-oil, should be administered, and after this blue pill, dandelion, nitro-muriatic acid, and such other remedies as may be necessary to bring the secretions, especially those of the liver, into a healthy condi- tion. 2, Meanwhile, an attempt may be made to soothe the local irritation by washing out the rectum with a pint of thin arrowroot and water after a motion; or by injecting, by means of a glass syringe, about two fluid drachms of purified glycerine; or by using a lotion of borax and extract of poppies, F. 122, or belladonna liniment, F. 149. 3. Stimulating applications, such as nitrate of silver and citrine oint- ment, may be tried to the fissure or ulcer. 4. Other means failing, an incision should be resorted to. The left forefinger should be intro- duced, and a straight, nariow, blunt-ended bistoury by its side ; with the latter, an incision should be made through the fissure, or ulcer, so as to divide the mucous membrane, and in severe cases, part of the sphincter. A little flake of cotton wool should then be laid in the wound, so that it may heal by granulation.* VI. H.55MORRHOIDS, or PiLES, are small tumours situated near, usually within, the anus. They consist of folds of mucous and sub- mucous tissue in various stages of inflammatory swelling, congestion, infiltration, or permanent hypertrophy, and usually contain enlarged veins. Sometimes there is a little varicose knot with the cellular tissue around thickened. Sometimes the blood in a dilated vein coagulates, * See observations by Richard Quain, F.R.S., quoted in Eanking's Abstract, vol. xvi.