ANEURYSM. 346 the blood on the unnatural snrface, and tending to become organized and to remain permanently as a false membrane, and to check the disease; and the formation of this is promoted, as we have just said, by everything that renders the circulation at that point languid, without stopping it altogether. The passive clot, on the contrary, is a mass of coagulated blood, such as may be produced by cutting off any quantity of blood from the circulation, as in ecchymosis ; and this, as we have shown (see Ecchymosis), is rarely susceptible of becoming organized, but usually is dissolved and absorbed: or not seldom gives rise to sup- puration and is discharged. Yet a second mode of spontaneous cure is sometimes found to be caused by violent inHammatioa or abscess, in which the aneurysm and artery are involved ; so that the blood in the sac is made to coagulate, and the artery obstructed by the coagulum. 3rdly. It has happened, in a few lucky cases, that a portion of clot has been detached from the interior of the sac by some accidental violence, and has effected a cure by blocking up the opening into the aneurysm, or by embolism in the main trunk of the artery itself below the aneu- rysm. 4thly. The artery has become obliterated by an accidental pres- sure of the aneurysm upon it, above or below the opening of communi- cation, under the resisting tension of a strong aponeurosis; or by the pressure of blood escaping from it on its bursting into the cellular tissue. Treatment.—The indications are to imitate the natural modes of cure, and especially the first. 1. By Compression. This very simple and obvious mode of treat- ment was employed long since by Guattani and others, and with some degree of success ; but it was usually applied immediately on the aneu- rysm itself, and was both imperfect and violent, so that it more fre- quently failed than succeeded, and often caused considerable mischief. During the last few years, however, it has been revived by the Dublin surgeons, Hutton, Cusack, and Bellingham, and has been rendered so safe, painless, and speedy a remedy, that it ought to supersede the liga- ture in popliteal aneurysm, and, in fact, in any case v/hatever in which it can be applied. And it is used mediately; that is, on the sound artery between the aneurysm and the heart; and in such a way as to retard the circulation and so cause an active clot; not to stop it sud- denly, and so produce a passive clot. The instrument employed to cause the pressure, may be either Signoroni's tourniquet (shown in the sketch, p. 347)—an arc of steel, with a joint in the middle, and a screw by which the extre- mities of the instrument are pressed together; or else a solid clamp of steel, having a wooden splint at one end, and a pad with a screw at the other. But as these are liable to slip, Carte's circular tourniquet, which envelopes the whole pelvis firmly, and in which the severity of the pressure is mitigated by India-rubber bands, is the favourite instrument at present. In some cases a common four-pound weight may be placed over the artery in the groin, with a pad intervening; or the pressure may be effected by the fingers.