DISEASES OF THE HANDS AND FEET. 691 between them. He next dissects out the lower and outer part of the gland, quite down to the pectoralis (taking care not to get behind that muscle), and then, cutting from below upwards, he separates the re- mainder. If an adjacent gland is enlarged, the incisions should be managed so as to include it also. When the mass is removed, its sur- face should be wiped and examined, and the wound should also be well examined, to ascertain that no part of the gland, and that no hardened or discoloured portions of cellular tissue or of muscular fibre, are left behind. Arteries are then to be tied, and the patient to be put to bed, and when all oozing has ceased, sutures and a few strips of adhesive plaster may be applied. If desirable to effect gentle pressure on the wound, to stop oozing, a small flat sand-bag, says Mr. Birkett, may be placed upon the flaps. XV". Men occasionally suffer from cancer of the breast, and other morbid growths, which manifest themselves in the same manner, and require the same treatment as in the female.* CHAPTER XXIV. DISEASES OF THE HANDS AND FEET—CLUB-FOOT, AND OTHER DEFORMITIES OF THE LIMBS. 1. Club-foot (Talipes) signifies a deformity of the foot, produced by rigidity and contraction of various muscles of the leg. 1. In the most simple and most common variety, talipes equinus, the heel mei-ely is raised, so that the patient walks on the ball of the foot. 2. In the talipes varus, which is the more common congenital form of club- foot, the distortion is much more complex. In the first place the heel is raised; secondly, the inner edge of the foot is drawn upwards ; and thirdly, the anterior two-thirds of the foot are twisted inwards ; so that the patient walks on the outer edge, and in confirmed cases, on the dorsum of the foot, and outer ankle. 3. In the talipes valgus the outer edge of the foot is raised up, and the patient walks on the inner ankle. (See fig. 3, p. 693.) 4. In the talipes calcaneus the toes are raised and the heel is depressed, so that the patient walks upon it. There are also compound varieties; as the talipes equino-varus, equino-valgus, and calcaneo-valgus; whose names sufficiently point out their nature. Each of these deformities may be congenital, or may come on after birth, with the exception of the talipes equinus, respecting which, it is very doubtful if it is ever congenital. Causes.—Their origin may be traced to contraction and shoi tening * For all necessary infonnation, see Mr. Birkett's Treatise on Diseases of the Breast; Lebert, op. cit,; Paget, Lectures, vol. ii.