524 BRONCHOCELE. the coast, and warm ses^-bathing, are mostly advantageous. Particular attention should be paid to the mental condition, to the uterine func- tion, the appetite^ and digestion, the sleep, and the state of the heart; and steel with aloetic purgatives, or contrariwise, conium, valerian, and remedies that abate nervous excitement, with good diet, and country air, should be advised. This last plan of treatment (without iodine) is applicable to the exophthalmic cases.* Instead of iodine, the burnt sponge, the bromides of potassium and of iron; chlorides of barium and calcium ; iron; solution of potass or soda; digitalis, hyoscyamus, and belladonna; and sea-water, have been used. If medicine proves ineffectual, and the tumour enlarges rapidly, so as to threaten suffocation or apoplexy, surgical operations must be resorted to, but not otherwise. There are three which have been pro- posed and practised:—viz., the introduction of setons ; ligature of the arteries which supply the gland ; and extirpation. The general results of these operations may be stated thus ;—All three of them have at different times succeeded; all of them are hazardous to life, and have proved fatal; and the first two have, in some instances, failed to lemove the disease, although the patient has recovered with his life. If a seton be passed, it should be of silk, and large enough to fill the wound made by the needle, so that there may be no fear of bleed- ing. The needle should be long and narrow. If after the seton has remained for some time, it ceases to produce a diminution of the gland, it should be withdrawn, and be reintroduced in another place. Extirpation of the gland is performed by making an incision in the middle line of the neck ; the skin and muscles must then be dissected from the tumour; and every artery be tied as soon as it is divided. Then (as it is mostly enlargement of the isthmus, or middle lobe, that requires this operation), a strong double ligature should be passed through it, and should be firmly tied on each side of it, before it is cut out. Encysted Tumour.—The cysts, which are formed in this gland, and which contain a glairy matter or blood, often require treatment. If necessary, they may be punctured, when they will most likely in- flame, suppurate, or lose their lining membrane by sloughing, and contract. If this does not answer a seton should be passed. They are apt, after puncture, to give exit to a great quantity of arterial blood ; if this prove troublesome, the wound must be filled with lint, when it will readily cease. In a case of cyst in the thyroid gland, which occurred to Mr. Fergusson, he could distinctly feel some- thing of atheromatous consistence within it. An incision having been made, this turned out to be a cauliflower intracystic growth, so ex- tremely vascular, that the wound was obliged to be closed. Similar * For a capital account of the exophthalmic goitre, see a paper by Dr. J. 0. Fletcher, of Manchester, Brit. Med. Journ. for 1863, vol. i., p. 529.