FKACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 277 cases in which the same ill consequences have followed bruises without fracture.* Treatment.—If the patient is very old and feeble, it is of no use to sacrifice his little remnant of health and strength, and run the risk of producing sloughing of the nates by long conHnement to bed, in the hope of procuring union by bone. But he should be kept in bed for a fortnight, till pain and tenderness abate ; with one pillow under the whole length of the limb, and another rolled up and placed under the knee, or he may be placed on a fracture bed. Then he may get up and sit in a high chair, and shortly begin to crawl about with crutches ; and in time he will regain a tolerable use of the limb, especially if not very corpulent. The sole of the shoe must be made thick enough to counteract the shortness of the limb. It must be added, that this injury often proves fatal during the first three weeks from the shock to the constitution, or from the bruises inflicted on the limb. (2.) Fracture external to the capsular ligament is caused by dii-ect violence, such as falls or blows on the hip, bv which the neck of the femur is broken otF, and driven into the cancellous structure of the great tro- chanter ; and at the same time one or both trochanters are spHt through likewise. If the cervix be firmly im- pacted, and the trochanters are still adhering by untorn periosteum, the diagnosis of this fracture presents obvi- ous difficulties, for there is no crepitus; the limb is shortened, but yet cannot be brought to its natural length by any justifiable amount of extension, and is not so everted nor so powerless as is usual in fracture ; yet if the distance of the trochanter from the anterior superior iliac spine be measured, it will be found less than on the opposite side: the projec- tion of the trochanter is also somewhat diminished. If, however, this fracture be so comminuted, that the cervix is not impacted in the shaft, the shortening and eversion are well marked, and crepitus can be pro- duced on extension and rotation. (3.) Oblique f racture through the Great Trochanter.—This accident may occur at any period of life, and is attended with the following symptoms:—the limb is everted, but very little shortened, and the shaft of the bone may be felt widely separated from the trochanter. This fracture unites readily by bone; and the treatment required con- * Smith, op. cit.; Canton, on Interstitial Absorption of the Neck of the Femur from Bruise, &c. Med. Gaz., Aug. 11, 1848.