ORGANIC DEPOSITS. 634 be alkaline, this test will fail, because then heat alone will not coagu- late the albumen ; and, moreover, heat alone may cause a deposit of white phosphates; therefore a few drops of nitric acid should be added after the boiling, which will dissolve the precipitate if phosphatic, but not if albuminous, and will throw down the albumen if the urine is ali^aline. 3. Fibrine in the urine, when present in large flocculi from any- ulcerated surface in the bladder, is readily distinguished. This sub- stance, however, is most interesting when moulded in the tubules of the kidney, and accompanying albuminous urine ; thus giving evidence of the seat of the effusion. These fibrinous casts of the tubuli uriniferi may vary much in size and appearance. They may be small and trans- parent, or large and transparent; or they may contain kidney epithe- lium in large or small quantity. When small, they show that they have been moulded in tubules not deprived of epithelium. 4. Epitheliumy from any part of the urinary organs, may be pre- sent in urine. Here we may recall to the recollection of our readers, that under slighter degrees of irritation the uniting medium which gives consistence to any epithelial or cuticular layer becomes loosened, the epithelium is formed in greater abundance, and is shed or des- quamated more rapidly than natural. Under higher degrees of irrita- tion or inflammation, the entire epithelial covering is stripped off or excoriated—a state of things usually followed by the evolution of pus globules on the inflamed surface. 1. The small round gland epithe- lium from the kidney, and the nuclei of disintegrated epithelium cells, are often found in small quantity in the urine when containing oxalate of lime, or when irritating from any other cause. 2. The kidney epithehum may be agglutinated by fibrinous effusion, and may be found in the sediment of albuminous urine in the form of epithelial casts, in those acute and chronic inflammations which Dr. G. Johnson calls desquamative nephritis. 3. The same epithelial cells and casts also may be found loaded with oil globules in certain stages of some varieties of Bright's disease. 4. The .epithelium from the pelvis, ureters, and especially from the bladder, is often found in great abundance when these parts are irritated by the urine, or by any other cause. The writer has found immense quantities in the urine after difficult labours ; it presents itself as a purulent-looking deposit, seen under the microscope, to consist of columnar or oval cells, of very various shapes and sizes, with single nuclei, the larger and older cells often full of granular matter, and almost disentegrated. The urine is not albuminous of necessity. (See fig, 3, p, 633.) 5. Mucus, a viscid, stringy, structureless substance, coagulated by acetic acid; alkaline in its reaction, when proceeding from the bladder and fauces; acid, when coming from the vagina; not albuminous; often containing large quantities of phosphate of lime, and having the property of rendering the urine alkaline, and of precipitating triple phosphate. It usually contains some amount of desquamated epithe- lium, and a few globules, perhaps epithelial nuclei. 6. Pus may be present in the urine, thi'ough suppuration of any