PREFACE. X which affect the act of respiration, and acts by diminishing the quantity of blood that need circulate in the lungs. But there is a fact I mention in these pages, which has been little noticed, and which may account for the perseverance with which blood was drawn in maladies where blood should rather have been injected—this is, the delicious sense of lan- guor and ease which follows the abstraction of blood, as it does the Turkish bath. This delusive benefit was probably the real excuse for a custom which was kept up in compliance with the so-called " scientific principles " of that day, although if practitioners had calmly looked at results, they would have doubted their principles. Whoever will take the trouble to look at " Butter on Irritative Fever," will see the depleting practice of 1824 in its chmax. He will see the fallacy of the theory which ascribes the discontinuance of bleeding wholly to ^' change of type " of disease. For patients were then bled repeatedly for a disease of a low, gangrenous type, in which we now, like the great practitioners of an earlier generation, should give bark and wine. Bleeding was then done to excess because our fathers had let themselves - be led cap- tive by the plausible " scientific principles " of CuUen and Hunter; and bleeding is not carried to excess now, because homely observation has shown those principles to be but par- tially true. Whilst I thus unsparingly exhibit what I believe to be the errors of our fathers, I do so because they are in essence our own too. The vices of the human mind remain, tliough their manifestations may vary. The worst error of all is that of imagining that our predecessors were all wrong, and ourselves all right. If my reader will have the goodness to refer to what I say at p. 36, he will see grounds for humility. New medical theories ought to include the old, and not to upset them. Our fathers' theories (say that of " action of vessels were partial glimpses—or glimpses at one aspect of an enor- mous subject. Ours are glimpses at another, perhaps a more advanced prospect. But it does not follow that because their theories did not include so many phenomena as ours, that they were wholly wrong or useless, or that their practice was all bad. I have ventured to denounce Hunter's theories, but I have the profoundest veneration for him as an observer and a practitioner. In fact, I have the fullest faith in the Art of Healing as practised by men of sense and sagacity in all ages ;—men strong enough to act on their own instincts of what was right, spite of the theories of the day, which, like