746 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. strong fascia, which next appears, must be cautiously sci atched through, and the carotid be traced with the finger, down to its oiigin. Then the vena innominata being depressed, a ligatuie may be carried from without inwards, round the artery, close to its bifurcation, taking care to avoid the vagus, recurient, and cardiac nerves.* Jn Aneurysm of the Innominata it is impossible, or if possible fatal, to place a ligature between the tumour and the heart; and the ligature of the carotid or subclavian, or both, seemed the only resource, till Mr. Edwards, of Edinburgh, attempted to give relief by pressure. An unhealthy woman of 60 had a tumour the size of an apple situated between the sterno-mastoid muscle and the middle of the neck, pulsating violently, soft and compressible, feeling like a vul- canized india-rubber ball, which, though compressible, expands the moment pressure is withdrawn. Another pulsating tumour rose in front of the trachea: they were the evidently distinct bulgings of one aneuiysm, as pressure on one increased the size of the other. Thesf tumours wei e of two months' growth, increasing rapidly, and attended with great dyspncea. Brasdor's operation was contemplated, but abandoned because aneu- rysm of the aorta was suspected. Then Mr. Edwards determined to apply pressure to the carotid and subclavian artea ies. This was accomplished by two conical pads of cork ; one attached to an arc of steel in which the neck rested, and which was supported by an upright rod, attached to a very firm broad gii th round the chest; the other to a band over the shoulder. The instrument was so adjusted as to stop all pulsation in the branches of the external carotid, and of the wrist of the affected side. Every morning for the first two weeks, Mr. Edwards i-oughly manipulated the sac for the purpose of breaking up the fibrine. Foi-the first two days, the tumour seemed to become thinner, and the pulsation more violent; after that it became more solid ; and in three months the aneurysm of the innominata was viitually cured, whilst that in the aorta had made little piogress.f Dr. William Wright, of Montreal, has published an interesting ac- count of a case in which he prolonged a patient's life for a month, by ligature of the right carotid, when death was imminent from a bursting * This operation was first performed by Mott, at the New York Hospital, in 1818. The patient walked out on the 20th day, bleeding from the wound occurred on the 21st, and he died on the 26th. The arch of the aorta was extensively diseased. Dr. Graele performed it in 1822 at Berlin; the patient died of hiemorrhage on the 67 th day. See Cooper's Surgical Dictionary, Art. Aneurism; South's Chelius, vol. ii., contains details of half a dozen cases. The operation was successfttlly perfoimfd by Dr. A. W. Smith, of New Orleant-, in May and June, 1864. The innominata and right carotid were tied on May 15, and the vertebral artery on the 9th July. This last operation cut off the supply of blood from the sac; bleeding from the wound ceased, and the patient was well on the 19th. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 24,1864, from American Medical Times. f Case of Mrs. Denmark, by Wardrop (ligature of subclavian), quoted in Cooper's Surg. Diet.; case by Mr. Evans, of Belper, in which the carotid was tied, ibid.; case in which Mr. William Wickham, of Winchester, tied the carotid and then the subclavian, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxiii.