DOUBTFUL AND MIXED CASES. 223 Soft plus hard chancre. " It must always be borne in mind," says Mr. Lee, " that the character of a sore at one time is no ceitain indica- tion of what it may previously have been, or of what it may ultimately become." It is therefore unsafe, even when a chancre has been watched from the first, and is pronounced soft, to promise exemption from secondary symptoms. For there may have been a twofold inoculation, and each disease may exist in one spot.* Hard plus soft chancre. A " hard," true infecting chancre, may have the ulcerative and suppurative characters of the soft" super- added to it; from intense local irritation, dirt, &c., as frequently happens with sores on the skin of the penis; or from cachexy. Such sores are inoculable, and leave little if any induration. Infecting sore ^\w& suppurating bicbo. Constitutional syphilis may follow a sore which has been attended with suppurating bubo, if the constitution is scrofulous, or there has been much local irritation, or hard is mixed with soft chancre. Bubon d'emhlee followed by constitutional sj/philis. Thei-e is no doubt of this fact according to Benjamin Bell, Marston, and other authorities, although whether j3os^ or propter be doubtful. Gonorrhcea followed by infection. Chancre may occur in the urethra, and if too far down to be visible, may be indicated by more or less pain, soreness and hardness at one spot, and detected by external examination, or by the bougie. Still there are cases adduced by Marston, showing that infection has followed cases of apparent gonorrhoea, with indolent glandular enlargement, but without anything like ulcer. Such cases are most explicable, accoiding to Dr. Marston, by considering them analogues of the very superficial and diffuse irri- tation of the glans, which accompanies a small patch of infecting sore. Hunter,t as is well known, succeeded in inoculating himself with an infecting sore and constitutional syphilis by means of the matter from a gonorrhoea. Whether, as Ricord suggests, the patient from whom the matter was taken had concealed chancre, or, as Marston suggests, a true syphilitic gonorrhoea, or, as Mr. Babington suggests, whether the sore were inoculated by means of a dirty piece of caustic, will pro- bably never be known. The fact remains. * Whilst these pages are ni the printer's hands, the author has been favoured with the following note by Dr. Jefteiy Marston :— " The most useful description as well as the most truthful, of the infecting sore is, that it originates in a pimple, a papule, an erosion or abrasion, a crack or a fissure, around which a thickening or induration ensues, but that hardness is not essential to the infecting sore. This hardening, according to Sigmund, occurs in one or other of the three following conditions :—1. Hardening or in- duration of sore and glands; 2. Hardening and induration of cicatrix and glands; 3. Hardening and induration of lymphatic glands only, the original local lesion never having become bard. In doubtful cases I place a great deal of reliance upon the state of the inguinal glands, and Sigmund, who seems to me to have studied the subject very carefully indeed, looks upon this indura- tion of the lymphatics as of more importance than the character of the sore or its discharges." " Constitutional syphilis ma]) appear whilst a patient has a soft sore, and yet have nothing to do with it." f On the Venereal Disease, part vi. chap. ii. s. 2.