POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 763 tissue. At the outer part of tlie wound lies the edge of the sartorius muscle ; this should be lifted and held outwards by a retractor. Then clear away the areolar tissue with care, and lifting up a portion of the aponeurotic sheath with the forceps divide it with the knife held hori- zontally. Introduce the director, and when the sheath is divided, the artery will very readily be found in a posterior position. The femoral vein is behind it. It is hardly necessary to allude to the possibility that the anastomotica mfigna might be taken up instead of the femoral artery : this branch arises from the trunk just before the latter per- forates the adductor magnus to become the popliteal. The ligature should be applied on the upper portion of the artery. II. The Popliteal Artery,—It is rarely necessary to tie this artery, but if called for it may be tied by cutting through the skin and fascia lata for the extent of three inches on the outer border of the ten- don of the semi-membranosus muscle, the patient being placed on his face, with his knees straight. On piessing that tendon inwards, the artery may be felt. Its vein, which lies superficial and rather external to it, must be cautiously separated and drawn outwards, and the needle passed between them. This operation is very seldom performed. The writer witnessed an accident in the person of his friend Dr. Norton, by which it would be very possible for the popliteal vessels to be wounded. In drawing a tight cork, by means of a common cork- screw, from a bottle held between the knees, the bottle was crushed, and the sharp edges driven between the inner hamstrings and the bone into the popliteal space. The patient was most kindly and skil- fully attended by Mr. Hodgson and Dr. E. Smith, and made a good recovery ; but the haemorrhage was immense, and the danger for a time great. III. The Posterior Tibial Artery.—As we have often said, a wounded artery should, if possible, be tied at the wounded part; and in most cases the wound may be enlarged, and its track pursued till the bleeding vessel is reached. Yet there are exceptions to this latter rule ; for example, the posterior tibial or peroneal artery may be wounded by a narrow instrument thrust through from the front of the leg; and to meet such cases, as well as others in which these vessels may require ligature for nsevus, the surgeon must be prepared to cut down upon them from the calf. To tie the Posterior Tibial in the upper part of the leg.—The course of the artery corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the popliteal space to the middle of the space between the heel and inner ankle. The patient should lie on his back, with the injured limb resting on its outer side, the knee half bent, and the foot on a pillow, and the heel raised, in order to relax the muscles of the calf to the utmost. Supposing the leg to be divided into thirds, an incision four inches long, half in the upper, half in the middle third, and an inch from the inner edge of the tibia, should be made through the skin and supei ncial fascia. When the calf is very large, the cut should be taken more than