626 ENLAEGED PROSTATE. The enlargement, further, may be due to an increase of the organ generally; or to the development of one or many masses of fibrous TUMOUR; exactly similar in structure to those concentric masses of muscular fibre which are developed in the womb, and are commonly known as fibrous tumours. One or more of these masses, involving more or less glandular tissue, may be developed alone, and may project as a pedunculated tumour; or may be contained within the prostate, capable of enucleation, and may constitute the whole disease; or may be combined with general hypertrophy. The symptoms of this disease may be divided into those which the surgeon ascertains by physical examination, and those of which the patient himself makes complaint. On examination, by means of a well- oiled forefinger introduced into the empty rectum, the surgeon ascer- tains the existence of the tumour; and on using the catheter, finds an obstruction at the neck of the bladder. Most probably, too, after the patient has voided all the urine that he can, the catheter will relieve him of a further quantity. The symptoms which the patient describes are slowness and dif- ficulty in making water, sense of weight in the perinseum, and tenes- mus; so that, as Coulson observes, he often believes he has internal piles. In the next place, the bladder becomes irritable, and the calls to make water are oftener than before. Tlien, as the patient cannot empty the organ completely, iu consequence of the projection foi-med by the tumour, a portion of urine always remains behind, and decom- poses, and becomes ammoniacal. Sometimes a fit of complete retention ensues, and it may be brought on by exposure to cold or excess in venery. Next the mucous coat of the bladder, irritated by the fie- quent strainings, and by the alkaline urine, inflames and secretes a viscid mucus. Finally the obstacle continuing to increase, the bladder is con- stantly distended, the urine perpetually dribbles away, the uretei's be- come dilated, the kidney disorganised, the patient's little remaining strength is exhausted, and he dies. Abscess in the gland, or ulceration of that surface which projects into the bladder, sometimes adds to the patient's misery, and hastens his death. The causes of this hypertrophy are as unknown as those of any other tumour. It generally commences, as Sir B. Brodie observes, about the time that the hair turns gray, and when earthy specks begin to be de- posited in the coats of the arteries. Not, however, that all old men have enlarged prostates; on the contrary, as Mr. Thompson observes, the change is abnormal and exceptional. Out of forty-tliree specimens from men of 50 and upwards, he found two atrophied; nine enlarged slightly ; and only five considerably, or to such a degree as to have given rise to symptoms during life. He believes that the change rarely begins before 55, or after 70. Treatment.—This must be palliative. The patient should avoid irregular diet, fatigue, and exposure to cold. The bowels must be kept easy, so that there may be no straining at stool;—irritation of the bladder must be alleviated by the measures we shall speak of in the