818 APPENDIX OF FORMULJi;. more. An uncertain, hut very often efficacious narcotic in tetanus, neuralgia, and other painf ul maladies. R. Tincturse cannabis Indicse rn.x.; mucilaginis f3j.; aquge f3vij. Mise fiat haustus. 30. Compound Soothing Pills. R. Pulveris ipecacuanhae compositi, extiacti conii, singulovum ^j.; misce et divide in pilulas xxiv.; quarum sumantur una vel dua^ su- binde. In painful ulcers, chronic rheumatism, stricture, ^c. {C. Mayo.) R. Extracti hyoscyami, extracti conii, extiacti papaveris, siugulorum ^j. Misce et divide in pilulas xij. In similar cases. 31. Pulvis Sudorificus Salinus. R. Pulveris ipecacuanha; compositi grana quindecim; potassaj nitratis grana quindecim ; potassse bicarbonatis grana qninque. Misce, fiat pulvis, bora somni sumendus, e cyatho ptisanse.* 32. Compound Opiate Mixtures. R. Liquoris opii sedativi TY|^xx.; spiritus ammonise aromatici, spiritus setheris nitrici, singulorum fjiss.; syrupi f3ij.; misturae cam- phorse f^vss. Misce. Dosis, pars quaila, quartis horis. R. Morphise hydrochloratis gi'anum; acidi hydrochlorici diluti guttas duas; aquaj f^viiss.; syrupi zinziberis f^ss. Misce. Dosis, pars octava. R. Syrupi papaveris f3iv. ; magnesiae cavbonatis 3ss.; spiritus fctheris nitrici; tincturas hyoscyami, smgulorum f3ij.; misturae cam- phorae f^vij.; Misce. Dosis, pars sexta subinde. To tranquillize the system after injuries, operations, accouchements, hcemorrhage, violent mental excitement, ^c. {Dr. Gooch.) Mr. Cole's Stimulating Narcotic Draught for Delirium Tremens. R. Extracti opii (Hill) gr. ij. vel iij; aquae ferventis f^iv.; tere in mortario et adde brandy il^xss.; sacchari q. s. Misce. The patient should he allowed to sip this out of the tumbler, like a glass of grog. Cole's Mil. Surg., p. 59. * "We offer this as a substitute for the original Pulvis Doveri, the recipe for which is as follows:—" Take opium an ounce, saltpetre and tartar vitriolated each four ounces, ipecacuanha one ounce, liquorice one ounce. Put the saltpetre and tartar into a red-hot mortar, stirring them with a spoon till they have done flaming: then powder them very fine ; then slice in your opium, grind these to a powder, and mix the other powders with these. Dose from 40 to 60 or 70 grams in a glass of white yvine posset, going to bed; covering up wann, and drinking a quart or three pints of the posset-drink while sweating." Dr. Dover accounts for the largeness of the dose by saying, that the properties of the opium are mitigated by the other ingredients; but in the present day, four, six, or seven grains of opium would be a dangerous dose, spite of the other ingre- dients. But if this is a true copy of the recipe, it is very difficult to understand how the saltpetre and vitriolated tartar can Jlame when heated together. Possibly the cream of tartar was used, and not the sulphate of potass.—See 'The Ancient Physician's Legacy to his Country,' by Thomas Dover, M.B. Fifth edition. It33.