TREATMENT OF POISONED WOUNDS. 171 dyspnoea, stupor, paralysis of the extremities, and coma came on, and the patient died in 95 minutes. Artificial respiration and galvanism were the remedies employed. The chief points of interest in the post- mortem examination were a dark, alkaline, and fluid state of the blood, which emitted a peculiai'ly sour and sicidy smell; and intense con- gestion of the lungs, spleen, and other internal organs.* Mr. Buckland, in dissecting an animal which had been bitten by a cobra, became in- fected through a scratch on the finger, and felt great prostration, which he relieved by ammonia.f Rattlesnake.—This snake, unlike most otheis, is capable of poisoning itself. Capt. Hall made one bite itself, and it died in eight minutes. Its effects, according to Sir E. Home, may be divided into two stages, either of which may prove fatal. During the fit^st, which may last for sixty-two hours, the symptoms are those of great prostra- tion of the nervous system, and contamination of the blood ; vomiting, deadly coldness, faltering pulse, the skin livid or jaundiced, bleeding from the nose, fainting fits, convulsions, and delirium. Meanwhile the bitten part swells immensely from effusion of acrid serum, and becomes mottled with blood, extravasated under the skin ; and this swelling extends to the trunk. Sometimes it is attended with excruciating pain, sometimes with mere numbness or coldness. During the second stage, large diffused abscesses form in the swelled parts, which contain bloody unhealthy pus and sloughs of cellular tissue, and are attended with low fever. After death the body putrefies very rapidly.J SECTIOISr II.—TREATMENT OP POISONED WOUNDS. In the fil'st place, measures must be taken to remove the poison from the wound or to destroy it. This may be attempted by passing a ligature tightly round the limb, as near as possible' to the wound, and between it and the heart, or by cutting the poisoned part clean out: then by thoroughly sucking the wound and bathing in hot water, to encourage bleeding ; or by putting an exhausted cupping-glass over it; or, lastly, by cauterizing it. This may be done by liq, ammoniaj, caustic potass, or nitric acid; or if the patient can be chloroformed, there need be no scruple in using a red-hot iron. The treatment of snake-hites consists in the administration of power- ful diffusive stimulants, such as hot brandy and water, whisky, am- monia, or the eau de luce, which should be given abundantly in as large quantities as the patient can swallow them. In America, what is called the Western Cure consists in making the patient drunk ; and very large * Lancet, Oct. 30, 1852. t Buckland, F., Curiosities of Natural History, Lend. 1857. X Sir Everard Home, Pijil. Trans, vol. c. Case of T. Soper, who was bitten by a rattlesnake. Hall on the Poison of Rattlesnakes. Phil, Trans, vol. xxx. p. 309. Case of Mr. J. Briental, who was bitten by a rattlesnake, reported by himself, Phil. Trans, vol. xliv. p. 147. Case of a man bitten by a rattlesnake to cure lepra, Ckurke, Lancet, Dec. 15, 1838.