DISEASES OF THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 292 acute form, and by a dull aching pain, usually increased at night, and often attended by sudden startings of the limb, accompanied with a sense of weakness and relaxation, and not usually aggravated by pressing the articular surfaces against each other. The swelling always comes on in a few days after the pain ; and sometimes, in long-continued cases of an indolent character, it is the only symptom present: these cases are called hydrops articuK or hydrarthus, and are rheumatic in their origin. If the disease proceed, the synovial membrane and surrounding tissues may become thickened and gristly, and the swelling lose its softness and fluctuation. This constitutes probably the condition described by Sir B. Brodie, as pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane ; a slow thickening from deposit of unhealthy exudation, which is liable to lead to ulceration of the cartilage and destruction of the joint. Some of these cases have their origin in necrosis, caries, or abscess in the bones forming the joint close to the articulation, gradually implicating the synovial membrane and setting up destructive action in the joint. The causes are the same as those of the acute form, of which it may be a sequel. Treatment.—The indications are, first, to correct constitutional dis- order ; secondly, to reduce inflammation ; and thirdly, to produce ab- sorption of the effusion and thickening, and restore the part to its proper uses. In the first place, thei"efore, if the complaint is constitutional, and depends on gout, it must be treated by colchicum and warm aperients, especially the decoction of aloes and alkalis. F. 70, 94, &c. If the habit is rheumatic, colchicum, or the iodide of potassium, or guaiacum, F. 56, 57, must be resorted to ; and in most cases, especially those fol- lowing syphilis or gonorrhoea, warm-bathing, change of air, sarsaparilla, and carefully-regulated diet will be indispensable. See Part II., Chap. VI., Sect. X. Secondly, in cases arising from local injury; whilst there is any activity about the inflammation (especially an increase of aching pain at night), the part should be confined by a splint or starched bandage, and should be bathed with cold lotions, and blood should be repeatedly taken by leeches or cupping. Mild alteratives should also be adminis- tered, F. 63, &c. The third indication is to be fulfilled by counter-irritants, beginning with blisters ; which are as serviceable in the chronic as they are detri- mental in the acute disease. They should be applied in succession, and be quickly healed up; and should not be put too near the joint, if it is superficial, as the knee. The strong acetum cantharidis will often be found a very convenient substitute. After the blistering, when the activity of the disease has subsided, the iodine paint; the linimentum hydrargyri; or stimulating liniments, F. 143, &c.; the douche, or affusion with hot water; and the vapour-bath will complete the cure. But all stimulating applications must be at once abandoned, if they cause an aggravation of heat and pain. The ointment of Scott, F. 160, the ceratum hydrai^gyri comp. of the Pharmacopoeia, is one of the most