501 CHAPTER XV. SURGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NECK. SECTION I.—SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE FAUCES, TONSILS, AND rVULA. 1. Acute Tonsillitis, Quinsy, or Inflammation of the Tonsil, is known by rapid swelling of the part, considerable throbbing pain ; deglutition difficult, perhaps impossible; headache, foul tongue, and fever. It must be treated by poultices, a dose of calomel followed by purgatives, inhalation of the steam of hot water, and gargles calculated to promote the secretion of saliva (F. 107). If the gland continue to swell, or if it occasion any embarrassment to the breathing, an incision should be made into it to unload the vessels, and give exit to matter. The tongue should be kept down with one forefinger, whilst a straight bistoury, wrapped round with lint except an inch and a half of its point, is plunged directly into tne tumour, and made to cut its way out towards the median line. Abscesses behind the pharynx require similar treatment. II. Chronic Enlargement of the Tonsil is a frequent sequel of inflammation, especially of reiterated catarrh in scrofulous children. It causes sundry inconveniences. The parts are liable to fiequent attacks of acute inflammation ; deglutition is impeded; the voice is rendered hoarse ; respiration is noisy and laborious, especially during sleep; the diseased state of mucous membrane is extremely liable to be continued into the ear, as we explained when treating of throat deafness, and to lead to disoi-ganization of the delicate structures in the tympanal cavity ; and suffocation has even been caused by viscid mucus entangled between the swollen glands. Treatment.—In the first place the system must be strengthened, and the secretions be kept up by proper tonics and alteratives. Steel, espe- cially the iodide, bark, cod-liver oil, or F. 87, 65, 41, 37, &c,, may be administered with benefit. At the same time contraction must be pro- moted by astringent gargles, F. 109, by swabbing the throat once a day with a lotion of arg. nit. ^j, aq.dest. ^^j., or liq. iodinii, and by apply- ing stimulating or ioduretted liniments to the skin. The method of swabbing is simple. A piece of sponge the size of a walnut must be put over the end of a stick, cane, or whalebone, in such a way that it completely covers the end of the stick ; and it must be firmly sewn or fastened on. The patient sitting, opens his mouth, and the surgeon having made the sponge to imbibe a solution of nitrate of silver, presses down the tongue with the left forefinger, introduces the sponge into the pharynx, and fairly swabs out every part of it. Inhalation of vapour is another remedy of the gi-eatest possible efficacy when the mucous membrane of the fauces, mouth, and tonsils