ACUTE ABSCESS. 55 irritant fluids; or when it contains an unhealthy matter, which might diffuse itself and spread the disease : as in carbuncle. 3. When an abscess is formed in loose cellular tissue (as around the anus), which would readily admit of great distension and enlarge- ment of the sac, and more especially if the cellular tissue is partially covered with muscles (as in the axilla), under which the matter might burrow. 4. In suppuration near a joint; or in the parietes of the chest or abdomen ; or under the deep fascia of the neck ; lest the abscess burst into the serous cavities, or the trachea ; or cause compression of, or burst into, the trachea, oesophagus, or jugular veins. 5. In suppuration of very sensitive organs, as the testis. 6. When it is desirable to avoid the scar which always will ensue when an abscess ulcerates spontaneously. And in the first three of these cases it is much better to make an opening before matter has formed, than to delay it for one moment afterwards. Abscesses may be punctured with a large lancet, used as in vene- section, or with the sickle-shaped bistoury, commonly called Symes; or, if deep and extensive, by a straight-pointed, double-edged bistoury. Holding it like a pen, the surgeon should gently plunge it in at a right angle to the surface, till it has entered the cavity, which may be known by a diminution to the feeling of resistance, or by gently turning the instrument on its long axis, so that a drop of pus may well up by its side. Then the aperture may be enlarged sufficiently as the instru- ment is being withdrawn. The puncture should be made at the lowest part, so that the abscess may empty itself, or else where the matter points most decidedly and the skin is the thinnest; and a very fine strip of oiled lint (called a tent) may be gently introduced between the edges of the opening, and be allowed to lemain for the first forty- eight hours to prevent them from closing again. The matter should not be rudely squeezed out; but when the surgeon has given vent enough, he should let it gently flow out into a poultice or fomenta- tion. The poultice may be continued till all the pain has subsided, and not longer. And then the best plan is to apply a compress of linen or cotton- wool, and strips of plaster or a bandage, to bring the sides of the cavity together, and keep them so. If the cavity does not contract speedily, it must be treated as a fistula. If the suppuiation continues profuse, tonics, change of air, and a good diet are advisable, in order to prevent hectic, and enable the constitution to repair the local mischief. Mr. Hilton s Method for Deep Abscesses.—Supposing deep suppui a- tion in the axilla, there is this dilemma: if the surgeon " plunge in a bistoury," he runs great risk of wounding a large blood-vessel; if he wait till the abscess come to the surface, the patient may die of irrita- tion. In this case, says Mr. Hilton, " I cut with a lancet through the skin and cellular tissue and fascia of the axilla, about half or three- quarters of an inch behind the axillary edge of the great pectoral muscle.