I DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 323 4. In the dislocation upwards and forwards (on the pubes); the limb is shortened about an inch ; very moveable; it is drawn away from the other, and the foot points directly outwards ; the head of the bone may be plainly felt below Poupart's ligament; and by this cir- cumstance this dislocation may be distinguished from fracture of the cervis femoris. Treatment.—Flexion may be tried; putting a bedpost between the patient's thighs, and abducting the limb, so as to throw the head of the bone downwards. If the pulleys are used, the patient is to be laid on the sound side; exten- sion should be made in a direction backwards and out- wards, the counter extension being in front of the patient; and after it has been con- tinued a little time, the head of the bone should be lifted over the edge of the acetabulum by means of a napkin. Sir Astley Cooper decided that eight weeks is the latest period after which it is justifiable to attempt the reduction of a dislocated hip, except in persons of extremely relaxed fibre or of advanced age ; and numerous instances are on record of death from abscesses or phlebitis, occasioned by violent extension at a later period. With respect to the relative frequency of these dislocations, Sir A. Cooper believed that out of twenty cases, twelve would be on the dor- sum ilii, five in the ischiatic notch, two in the foramen ovale, and one on the pubes.f Unusual Dislocations.—Besides the above four varieties, a dis- location directly downwards on the tuberosity of the ischium; one directly backwai-ds on the spine of the ischium ; and one directly up- wards on tJie space between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium, have been known to occur, although very rarely. In a case of disloca- tion directly downwards, recorded by Mr. Keate, the limb was length- * Dislocation forwards. From Sir A. Cooper. t These dislocations generally happen to adults. In very old people it is more common for the cervix femoris to give way. They are also rarely met with in children—although Sir A. Cooper relates one case which happened to a boy of seven; Mr. Travers, jun., one to a boy of five ; and the late Mr. Place, of Wimborne, was good enough to communicate to the author the particulars of a case of dislocation on the dorsum ilii happening to a boy of ten.