DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 411 * Op. cit., pp. 37, 117. Superficial Opacities—" There are some varieties," says Mr. Bow- man, " which appear to be on or near the very surface of the cornea, and which it is probable may occupy the anterior elastic lamina. The very opaque chalky-looking films which often follow the application of quicklime or new mortar to the eye, seem to be of this kind, and so, also, do those which have been supposed by some to be stainings of the surface of the corneal tissue by a deposit of the lead lotion in common use. Occasionally we have a superficial excoriation of the cornea—one can hardly call it an ulcer—which the epithelium limits with abrupt edges, thus favouring the accumulation, on the depressed surface, of the frothy mucus or sud which the movements of the lid furnish. " The opacity thus produced is often very opaque, and unless you were aware of its cause, might seem more serious than it really is. A lens, or the point of a needle, will inform you of its real nature. "There is another form of opacity, which I believe to have its seat in the anterior elastic lamina, although it is vain to endeavour to prove it, except by a section of the parts. It has a silvery lustre, and a very fine texture of interweaving stria;, and it creeps very gradually from near the border, over the surface of the cornea, towards the centre. The epithelial surface retains its smoothness and lustre, and the opacity does not appear to have much depth. Other varieties of opacity, vei'y chronic in their course, and evidently not inflammatory, are Hable to form, as I believe, in the same tissue. They may be of a brown tint, with an indefinite margin, and may atfect both corneas at the same time." Superficial opacity, caused by a thin film of earthy matter, has been successfully removed by operation by Mr. Bowman,* Mr. Dixon, and Mr. Haynes Walton. If the acetate of lead is used as a collyrium when there is any abra- sion of the conjunctiva or cornea, a white precipitate is formed, which is liable to become fixed in the cicatrix as a dense white spot. The film may, however, sometimes be removed by a needle. The nitrate of silver, if applied too long, is apt to turn the conjunctiva of a deep olive hue. V. Onyx signifies a suppuration between the layers of the cornea, and is an occasional result of acute ophthalmia, especially of the ca- tarrho-rheumatic, but more commonly follows slight injuries. It is liable to extend rapidly, and to destroy the whole or great part of the cornea by sloughing. It indicates a debilitated constitution, and must be treated with tonics and stimulants, e. g. quinine and ammonia. If there be much tension of the eyeball, the aqueous humour should be evacuated, care being taken that the puncture is made in a sound part of the cornea. VI. Ulcers of the cornea may be the results of the jMyctenula of scrofulous ophthalmia, or they may arise from mechanical injury, or from any form of conjunctival inflammation. They may likewise com-