SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. 298 bones, conversion of that part of the synovial membrane which lines the ligaments into a yellow gelatinous substance; softening and ulcer- ation of the ligaments; and conversion of all the tissues around the joint into a gelatinous substance, riddled with abscesses, in which all natural distinction of structure is lost. This condition may be produced in the scrofulous adult by an insi- dious idiopathic disease, which was formerly called chronic ulceration of cartilage. Symptoms.—For the first few weeks (or perhaps months) of this disease the patient complains only of slight occasional rheumatic pains, perhaps flying about and affecting several joints, but at length settling decidedly in one. After a time, the pain increases in severity, espe- cially at night, and it is generally referred to one small spot, deep in the joint, and is compared by the patient to the gnawing of an animal. Moreov^er, it is usually accompanied by an aching of some other part of the limb: thus, when the hip or elbow is affected, there is an aching of the knee or wrist; but it is important to notice that both the pain in the affected joint and the sympathetic remote pain are always aggra- vated by motion of the joint, and by pressure of the articular surfaces against each other. As the disease proceeds, the suffering becomes most excruciating, and is attended with painful spasms and starting of the limb during sleep; so that the patient's rest is broken, his spirits ex- hausted, and his appetite and general health rapidly impaired. At first the pain is unaccompanied with any swelling; in fact, this symptom never appears in less than four or five weeks, and often not for as many months, and when it does appear it is slight; and as it depends on an infiltration of the tissues around the joint, and not on effusion into it, the shape of the joint is not so much altered at first, but soon becomes more rounded, pulpy, and equally soft at all points, till it finally assumes the appearance of a globular enlargement which contrasts very strongly with the wasted condition of the limb above and below. The tissues are then brawny and exsanguine, giving a white appearance to the joint, marbled by blue veins upon the surface. Terminations.—In fortunate cases, that are subjected to judicious treatment at an early stage, the disease may be arrested, and the patient recover with a stiff or anchylosed joint; but in unfavourable cases, the * Sketch of diseased knee, from a patient of Dr. Paul's, at Camberwell House Asylum. The tibia and fibula dislocated backwards.