OPERATIONS FOR TYINQ ARTERIES. 744 round the vessel from without inwards, the point of the needle being kept close to the vessel in order to avoid the vagus nerve. When its point appears on the inner side, the surgeon seizes the ligature with forceps, and withdraws the needle ; ascertains that the uervus vagus is not included in the ligature, and then ties tightly a double l^not as re- presented at page 35. One end of the ligature may then be cut off close to the knot, and the other be left hanging out of the wound, which is to be closed with plaster when bleeding has ceased. The patient must be kept at perfect rest in bed till the ligature separates. As a rule, on the right side the ligature should be applied as high as possible : on this side too there may be no trouble with the internal jugular. On the left side, this vein will, in all probability, get in the way and require to be drawn outwards. On this side too the relation of the oesophagus internally, and of the thoracic duct posteriorly and externally must be remembered, as these parts must be avoided care- fully. To tie the Common Carotid in its upper part.—The patient is placed in the same position as before, but with the head more thrown back. An incision of three inches is made through skin and platysma, on the antei'ioi' edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, from a little below the coi'ner of the lower jaw to opposite the cricoid cartilage. The deep fascia, here very dense, is to be pinched up, opened, and further divided on a director most carefully, in consequence of its intimate connection with the sheath of the artery and with the veins. The edges of the wound are now to be drawn asunder, the pulsation of the artery sought for, and the sheath opened over it, in the manner and with the precautions before described ; a small portion only of the vessel must be exposed, and the ligature passed as before directed. The jugular vein will be more difficult to avoid here than in the lower part of the neck. II. The External Carotid may, if wounded, require a ligature; or if any of its branches are wounded, and cannot be tied; but such an operation is very rarely, if ever, practised, ligature of the common carotid being preferable. An incision of the same length and direction as in the two preceding operations should be made through the skin, platysma, and sheath, so as to tie the vessel near its origin, below the part where it is crossed by the digastric muscle and ninth nerve. To tie the external carotid above the digastric muscle, before it has gained the parotid gland, the head should be well extended, and an in- cision made from the lobe of the ear to the great cornu of the os-hyoides, successively through the skin, platysma, and superficial fascia. The student must not expect to meet with the deeper parts in this situation disposed, as they appear in the dissecting-room, after they have been dissected, when in fact they are completely displaced and pulled down. The parotid gland first comes into view, by raising the border of which, the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid is exposed, and also the posterior beUies of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Along the upper edges of the latter the vessel may be found entering the parotid. Con-