FISSURE OF THE PALATE. 484 in sucking and swallowing, and great risk of losing the child through starvation; if the child grows up, it causes a very serious impediment to distinct articulation. Treatment.—When the fissure of the palate is combined with hare- lip, and the gap extends from back to front entirely through the hard and soft palate and lip, the lip should be operated upon soon after birth, in the manner described when we spoke of hare-lip; and the observa- tions then made should be attended to, as to the saving and pushing together any projecting bone. During childhood, trusses should be worn to bring the edges of the bony fissure nearer together. If, however, the fissure at birth should be discovered to be in the soft parts only (as shown in the next cut), the surgeon may adopt M. Cloquet's plan of cauterizing the angle of the fissure for a very limited extent, and allowing it to cicatrize ; then repeating the operation again and again till the contraction following each cicatrization has closed the whole fissure. The cautery should be a small iron, at a black heat. M. Cloquet had tried this method upon four patients at the date of the publication of this paper, with success. The author is not aware that it has yet been adopted by any English surgeon, but hopes that this will soon be the case; as it will be a most important boon to patients, if their malady can be relieved during infancy, before they have acquired a defective mode of speaking, and so if they can be spared the misery which this deformity and the usual operation inflict upon them.*—See Canterij, in Part v., chap. iii. The method heretofore adopted has been to leave the patient to attain the age of puberty, and then to perform the operation of Staphyloraphy, or suture of the uvula. This is always a difficult, and in former days anything but a successful, operation, owing in great measure to the difficulty of preventing the flaps, when united, from being dragged asunder by the muscles. Mr. W. Fergusson, who for the first time carefully examined and dissected the malformpd parts, ascer- tained exactly what the forces and effects of the muscles really are, as follows:— It had been often remarked that the action of the muscles upon the edges of the fissures in the soft palate was difficult of explanation. If the defoi'med part is examined whilst perfectly quiescent, the gap is seen conspicuously, the lateral flaps are distinct, and the posterior nares, with the upper end of the pharynx, are observed above and behind them. If now the flaps are touched, they will in all probabi- lity be jerked upwards; and if they be still further irritated, each flap will be still more forcibly drawn upwards and outwards, so as hardly to be distinguishable from the rest of the parts forming the sides of the nostrils and throat. But, on the other hand, if the pharynx be irritated, and made to perform the act of deglutition, the margins of the fissures will be bi-ought together. Now it is easy to understand that the separation of the flaps must * See abstract of M. Cloquet's paper in Gaz. Med., March 3, 1855; Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., July 1855 ; Ranking, Abstract, vol. xxi.