301 ARTICULAR CARIES. whole joint, is also of great value as a stimulating counter-irritant of much power. If the knee is affected, a small caustic issue may be established on each side of the head of the tibia, and may be kept open by an occasional touch with caustic potass or sul- phate of copper. The actual cautery is exceed- ingly efficacious as a counter-irritant, and the patient may be rendered unconscious of it by chloroform.* Sir B. Brodie has shown that issues, when long established, sometimes irritate the constitution, bringing on a return of the pain which they relieved at first, and which will again depart if they are healed up. It is a practical rule, therefore, to give them up for a time, before condemning a joint to excision. For children, if counter-irritation is deemed neces- sary, blisters answer very well. 4. The oint- ment of Scott, applied as described in a preceding page, will often be found a useful auxiliary to time and quietude. 5. Mercury, given so as gently to aftect the system, was believed by Sir B. Brodie to be of great benefit in the case of adults.t 6. In other cases, the treatment must be that which we have prescribed for scrofula: cod-liver oil; iodide of iron or of potassium; sarsaparilla; nutritious food; and sea-air, so soon as the patient is able to go out. Pain must be allayed by hemlock or opium. 7. There can be no doubt that recovery is often prevented by the presence of pus, and of the debris of bone and cartilage in the cavity of the joint. When suppuration, therefore, has taken place, it seems rational not to let the matter burrow and establish sinuses, and disoi-ganize the surrounding^ textures, but to adopt Mr. Gay's plan, and freely lay open the joint by longitu- dinal incisions, or else introduce Chassaignac's drainage tubes. Thus, an exit being provided for discharge, the parts will be relieved of one obstacle to recovery. Besides, weak injections of iodine, dilute nitric and phosphoric acid, and other applications, may be made to the diseased surfaces, and carious or necrosed portions of bones be removed. 8. If all other measures prove unavailing, and the health is sinking, the diseased articular surfaces should, if possible, be cut out; otherwise, the limb should be amputated. * Refer to the Index. t Lectures, Med. Gaz. vul. xx.wii.