SHORT AND LONG SIGHT. 446 is, in fact, no anomaly of refraction, but only a narrowing of the range of accommodation ; the near point is removed too far from the eye, and hence the difficulty of accurately distinguishing small objects.* Far-sighted persons ought to take to the use of spectacles as soon as they find that they cannot read at the usual distance without i'atigue to the eye. Lenses should be selected which cause the type to appear bright and distinct, but not larger than natural, when held at from ten to twelve inches from the eye. III. Hypermeteopia.—In hypermetropia the refractive power of the eye is too low, or the optic axis is too short. The effect of either of these conditions is that parallel rays are not brought to a focus on the retina, but behind it. It is, in fact, the converse of myopia. This aflection was first clearly described by Grjefe, and has since received much attention from Donders. The subject is one of very great im- portance, as these authors have clearly shown that hypermetropia is one of the most common causes of that most inconvenient and intract- able affection, asthenopia, and a very common cause of convergent strabismus. Parallel rays being focused behind the retina, it follows that even for distant vision the power of accommodation must be exerted, and when the eye is employed on near objects, as in reading, writing, &c., the rays being divergent, a much greater exertion is necessary. The ciliary muscle is thus subjected to a strain which it cannot bear, and after a longer or shorter period of employment the print becomes dim, the lines run into each other, the eye feels hot and full, so that the patient feels relief from rubbing or pressing them, and in many cases there is dull frontal headache. There are few surgeons who are not aware of the intractability of this complaint under the usual mode of treatment, and of the numbers of sempstresses, engravers, pi-inters, &c., &c., who are more or less incapacitated by it from following their employment. It is, therefore, very satisfactory that the true nature of this atfection has been discovered, and that it can be simply and effectually remedied by the use of well-selected convex spectacles, by which the ciliary muscle is relieved from all unnatural strain. The frequent association of convergent strabismus with hyper- metropia is accounted for thus: Convergence of the optic axes in- creases the power of accommodation; the patient, therefore, uncon- sciously exerts the internal recti when looking at near objects, and, to avoid the inconvenience of double vision, one is contracted more than the other, so that the image, falling upon a less sensitive part of the retina, may be mentally ignored. The habit leads finally to confirmed strabismus. An excellent account of the varieties of abnormal or impaired vision which may be remedied by the use of spectacles will be found in the work of Mr. Soelberg Wells, on Impaired Vision, already referred to. * Impaired Vision, by Soelberg Wells, p. 15.