ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 208 be a small abscess within the gland, which is caused by absorption from a chancroid, yields inoculable matter, and when let loose converts the whole abscess into a chancroid sore, with ragged elevated edges, foul cavity, &c. 3. Indolent bubo.—This occurs in persons, weak, scrofulous, or worn out, and may accompany any kind of sore or surface derangement, or may come from constitutional causes only. Glands enlarge; the tissue between them and the skin is slowly infiltrated; imperfect sup- puration takes place at various points, undermining the skin, which perishes by slow ulceration. It must be recollected that a venereal sore may be complicated with a glandular swelling below Poupart's ligament, arising from irritation about the foot. Bubon d'emblee.—This is the name given by the French to a bubo, supposed to arise from absorption of virus from the skin, without ulcer or breach of surface. It is a point surrounded with difficulties, which wants years of close observation to make out. It will be recollected that although suppurating bubo does not usually accompany the primary syphilitic sore, yet that it is liable to happen fi-om general causes, to syphilized patients, and cannot be taken as evidence against the existence of constitutional syphilis. Treatment.—Acute bubo must be treated as an acute abscess ; by rest in bed, aperients, hot fomentations, or an ice bag—whichever the patient finds most agreeable; soothing applications to the original sore; and perhaps a few leeches. If these measures diminish the acute symptoms, without dispersing the tumour entirely, it will be well to try irritation of the surface by iodine paint; pressure by means of a pad and bandage; or by a weight applied as the patient lies in bed; and combinations of tonics with aperients, F. 41. If, spite of these measures, the skin becomes thin and shining, the matter should be let out by a sufficiently free incision. Then after a day or two, lint dipped in solution of nitrate of silver may be passed down to the bottom of the wound with a probe. The indolent bubo, when followed by infiltration and threatening abscess, may also be treated with tonics and aperients, steel, cod-liver oil, and good diet; and iodine paint, or a small blister may be applied. Should matter form and the skin become thin, an incision should be made. There are three sources of difficulty in treating the later stages of bubo. One is loose thin bluish skin undermined with sinuses. This may be dealt with by laying open the sinuses, and destroying red ulcer- ating flaps of skin with caustic potassa, or the strong iodine paint. Secondly, indolent glands left at the bottom of sinuses, or projecting into the midst of the sore, denuded of skin, and incapable of granulat- ing. These may be attacked with solid nitrate of silver, or a grain or two of red precipitate be sprinkled on them; some surgeons detach them with- knife or scissors, or the finger nails. Thirdly, the superven- tion of phagedjEnic or serpiginous ulceration, which requires change of air, opiates at night, bark or steel, good diet, &c.; and the local reme- dies we have before pointed out (pp. 71, 203).