395 DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. surgeon possess tlie requisite skill and instruments, which are those required for the extraction of cataract. Mr. Bowman finds a drop of castor-oil the most soothing application in those very painful cases, in which the epithelium has been scratched or roughly stripped off from the surface of the cornea.* IV. Prolapse op the Iris, in consequence of penetrating wounds of the cornea, may be attempted to be i-educed by closing the eye, and very gently rubbing the lid against the cornea, so as to press on the prolapsed portion, and afterwards by exposing it to a strong light, so as to cause the pupil to contract. Or a solution of atropia, F. 198, or of the extract of the Calabar bean, may be applied to the con- junctiva, and this, whether a portion of the pupillary margin be or be not prolapsed. In either case, if dilatation or contraction can be effected, there may be a favourable issue. Mr. H. Walton relates an instance in which reduction was effected by means of a probe. Dr. Mackenzie thinks that if the little bag of iris were emptied of its aqueous humour, it would often return immediately to its place, and suggests an attempt to empty it by pressure. Unless the reduction can be attempted immediately after the prolapsus, all chance of returning it is lost, because it soon becomes strangulated. When the prolapsed part cannot be returned, some surgeons have advised that it be snipped off, lest it irritate the eye; but in doing so there is likelihood of pro- ducing further ]}rotrusion. In some rare accidents when a a large part or nearly the whole of the iris hangs out, it may be prudent to remove apart; but, generally, the safer plan is to let it remain; all that is not required to plug up the opening v/ill very soon be removed spon- taneously. The protruded part, says Mr. Walton, rapidly cicatrizes over, with a partly opaque, and partly transparent cicatrix. Any appUcation (such as the lunar caustic formerly recommended) interferes with the natural process. SECTION III.—DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. I. HORDEOHJM, or sty, is a small painful boil at the edge of the eyelid, having most probably its seat in a ciliary follicle. Treatment.—Poultices or fomentations ; subsequently ung. hydr. nitrat. dilut., to remove any remaining hardness. Aperients, and afterwards tonics and alteratives, are always necessary, as the com- plaint always arises in debilitated constitutions. II. Ophthalmia Tarsi is an inflammation of the palpebral con- junctiva and the edge of the eyelids, with disordered secretion of the Meibomian glands—so that the eyelids stick together, and become encrusted with dried mucus during sleep. It may be acute—attended with great pain and soreness,—but in general it is chronic and obsti- nate, and attended with itching. It commonly occurs to weakly persons with disordered digestive organs. It may lead to ulceration of * Bowman, Lectures on the Parts concerned in the Operations on the Eye, Lend., 1849, p. 120.