59 CHRONIC ABSCESS. be made to let out the raspberiy-cream-looking matter and the flakes floating in it; and some strips of adhesive plaster should be passed round the part, so as to keep the sides of the sac in apposition with a modei'ate degree of pressure. Thus a free and depending aperture being provided for the pus, the opposing surfaces of the cavity will often gi'anulate and adhere; then the external aperture heals, and the case is cured. If this adhesion does not take place, stimulating injec- tions may be used, such as F. 117 diluted ;—or the cavity may be slit up, and made to heal from the bottom. Large Chronic Abscesses.—If the abscess is very large, or if it is connected with disease of the spine (as in the case of psoas abscess), the surgeon must take care not to let air into the sac; nor to empty the sac suddenly, and leave its sides unsupported ; else when the fluid pressure within is removed, blood will very probably ooze from the delicate vessels, and putrefy. A small puncture should be made at the most depending part of the tumour. Mr. Vincent recommends a trocar. As much matter as flows spontaneously should be permitted to escape, the parietes of the abscess should be brought together by careful bandaging, and then the puncture should be cai-efully closed by collodion or plaster, and the patient be kept at rest till it is healed. During the flow of the matter, the greatest care ought to be taken to prevent the admission of air into the sac. At the expiration of ten days or a fortnight, when it is nearly refilled, a second puncture should be made (but not too near the former), and should be healed again in like manner. This operation should be repeated at proper intervals, taking care never to let the abscess become so distended as it was befoi'e the previous puncture,—and using moderate support by bandages in the intervals. Thus, in fortunate cases, these repeated partial evacuations, combined with proper constitutional measures, may cause the abscess gradually to contract;—so that it either becomes completely obliterated or degenerates into an insignificant fistula.* Perhaps a still safer method is to pass a long narrow knife through the skin, at a little distance from the abscess; then under the skin into the sac, so that the pus may pass through a subcutaneous canal, that shall be thoroughly valvular and exclude the air.f M. Chassaignac's Drainage.—Large chronic abscesses in which there may be risk from sudden emptying of the sac, are just the cases for which the drainage tubes of M. Chassaignac are adapted. These are india-rubber tubes, about ^th inch in diameter, and perforated with numerous holes. Let us suppose a large chronic abscess. M. Chas- saignac takes a long trocar, introduces it at the top of the abscess, and brings it out as near the bottom as may be. Through the canula a drainage tube is inserted ; the canula is withdrawn, leaving the tube, whose ends are tied together for security. Pus oozes out constantly drop by drop, through the tube ; thus the abscess is gradually emp- * William Fergusson's Practical Surgery, 3rd ed. p. 92; and Lancet, Nov. 6, 1841. t W, Adams, Subcutaneous Surgery, p. 48. Lond. 1857.