760 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. are joined by other veins of large size, so that no sharp instruments should be used in the latter part of the opei-ation. It has been found in old subjects that the peritonseum has not escaped lacei'ation, while being separated from its connections, even with the greatest care. Taking these circumstances into consideration, together with the fact that the artery may be shorter than usual, (it is very irregular), and that it may lie deep in the pelvis, several very excellent surgeons have expressed their conviction that under most circumstances it will be more prudent to tie the common iliac, although the direct supply of blood to the leg should be cut off. The artery and vein are covered by, or surrounded with, a proper sheath. The ureter is, in some subjects, closely connected with the artery; usually it is placed internal and a little posterior. The operation described for tying the common iliac is that by which this vessel may be the most readily reached, and it has the advantage of enabling the common trunk to be tied in case the operator should afterwards desire it. While the vessel is being secured, it should not be immoderately pulled, as the ilio-lumbar artery may be torn through. In all these operations the advantage of the patient being under the influence of chlorofoi-m, whereby respiration goes on tranquilly, and the descent of the intestines is to a great extent pre- vented, must be obvious. We may add, that the aorta may be reached by the same operation by which the common iliac is tied, should it be necessary to do so, and that, as Mr. Guthrie suggests, it may be possible to reach either common iliac from the opposite side of the pelvis, should the position and size of an aneurysm render it impossible to do so on the same side. (See p. 770.) IV. The Gluteal Artery may be tied by placing the patient on his face, with the toes turned inwards, and making an incision from an inch below the posterior spinous process of the ilium, and an inch from the sacrum, towards the great trochanter. This incision should be about four inches long. The fibres of the gluteus maximus having been cut through or separated to the like extent, and a strong fascia beneath having been cut through, the vessel will be found emerging from the upper part of the sciatic notch. The Sciatic artery may be found by making an incision through the same parts and for the same extent, but an inch and a half lower down. Both these operations are extremely difficult, from the great depth to which the dissection must be carried, the unyielding nature of the surrounding parts, and the haemorrhage from the numerous blood-vessels that must necessarily be wounded. They should be attempted, however, in case of woimds; but for aneurysms of these arteries, it is necessary to tie the internal or common iliac. SECTION IV.—THE FEMORAL AND ITS BRANCHES. I. The Femoral Artery extends from Poupart's ligament to the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, where it passes