477 NASAL POLYPUS. the head, which is increased in damp weather. If he force his breath strongly through the affected nostril, whilst he closes the other, the polypus may be brought into view. There are very often more than one of these tumours, and they are very liable to return when re- moved. If polypus be permitted to remain, it continually increases in size, blocks up the nostril, displaces the septum, and obstructs the other nostril, causes prodigious deformity of the cheek, prevents the passage of the tears, and may even cause death by pressure on the brain. The structure of these polypi is fibro-cellular or areolar tissue, covered with ciliated epithelium. The most usual point of attachment is one of the superior turbinated bones. Treatment.—A probe should be introduced to feel for the neck of the polypus, which should then be seized with forceps, and be gently twisted olf. If, as sometimes happens, it projects backwards into the pharynx, it must be extracted through the mouth with curved forceps if requisite, or a loop of stout twine may be passed, by means of a bougie, along the floor of the nostril into the pharynx, where it may be passed around the tumour by the fingers; and the tumour may be dragged forwards through the nostril. The double hook depicted here may be stuck into a polypus, and twisted round and round so as to tear it off. Such hooks are made b}'' Savigny, of various sizes, for polypi of the ear, nose, and uterus. Wilde's snare for polypus of the ear, depicted at p. 456, may be useful. Formerly surgeons used to strangulate these tumours by passing the ends of the ligature through a double canula, in the same way in which it was customary to treat uterine polypi. But clean evulsion is a far prefei'able operation, and tliere is no fear of any bleeding that cannot be checked by iced water or by plugging. In a few cases it may be necessary to slit up the ala of the nostril where it joins the cheek, in order to get at the root of the tumour. Polypus, it must be observed, is a coarse old-fashioned word em- ployed to signify any sort of pedunculated tumour attached to a surface, to which it was supposed to adhere like a parasite with many claws. Thus fibrinous clots attached to the interior of the heart used to be spoken of as polypi of the heart. But the most frequent seat of polypi is mucous membrane; and the most common and legitimate species is that fibro-cellular tumour, developed in the submucous tissue, and covered with entire mucous membrane, which we have just described. 2, Another variety is composed of fibro-plastic cells, and is, in fact, a mass of granulations, not developed into fibro-cellular tissue. This is, unlike the preceding, often caused by local irritation. The common aural polypus is an example. 3. Warty and epithelial growths with narrow necks constitute another variety. 4. Lastly,