101 FIBROUS TUMOURS. such local hypertrophies of fat in the neck more commonly than else- where, and gives the case of a servant, in whom such an oveigiowth was aggravated by iodine, and cured by liquor potassse. The dose is a fluid drachm, thrice daily in table-beer. But neither this nor any other medicine has any effect on the true fatty tumour. Sometimes a fatty tumour on the cheek has been caused to waste in suppuration by means of a seton passed through it; but, for most cases, extirpation by the knife, after the manner described in the last Part, Chap. II., is the only remedy, and an effectual one ; for this of all tumours is the least likely to return. SECTION III. THE FIBROUS, PAINFUL SUBCUTANEOUS, FIBRO- CELLULAR, FIBRO-PLASTIC, FIBROID, FIBRINOUS, FIBRO-NU- CLEATED, AND COLLOID TUMOURS. 1. The Fibrous Tumour {desmoid tumor) is composed of fibrous tissue, identical with that which forms the normal tendinous structures of the body, and which it perfectly resembles in naked-eye appearances. In many tumours the fibres are arranged in bands or loops, or perhaps in concentric circles lound numerous centres; in others tiiey are in- extricably matted together. Some are vascular and pinkish, but the majority almost destitute of blood-vessels. Microscopically they are seen to consist of fibrous tissue, which when rendered transparent by acetic acid, usually reveals numerous nuclei scattered amongst the fibres. The most frequent habitat of these tumours is usually said to be the womb. But the so-called fibi ous tumours of this part consist in reality of unstriped muscular fibre. Fibrous tumours are com- mon in connexion with the pe- riosteum, especially about the jaws, or may grow in the interior of bones; in the subcutaneous cellular tissue; in the breast, and particularly in the nerves, where they receive the name neuroma. On examination these tumours are usually firm, free from ten- derness, smooth, oval, or pyriform ; slightly lobulated ; of slow growth ; lasting any number of years, and attaining almost any size; gene- rally single as to number, or, if multiple, affecting but one and the same organ. Their origin is usually quite spontaneous, and cause unknown * Section of " fibrous tumour" from the uterus, treated with acetic acid.