533 PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. air in the bowels may be perhaps felt; and as Dr. Tanner remarks, in some MS. notes with which he has favoured the author, it is more likely that ascites Avill be taken for o.varian dropsy than the converse. In any case of doubtful diagnosis, therefore, the probabilities are in favour of ascites. Some degree of ascites is frequently present with ovarian dropsy. Moreover, fluid may escape into the peritoneal cavity from the ovarian tumour, as stated by Hughes Bennett. Thirdly. A microscopic examination of the fluid which is removed will, in ovarian dropsy, most probably reveal the old disintegrated blood- globules, the epithelial cells, the large compound granular masses, and heaps of granules, oil-cells, and crystals of cholesterine, which abound in the liquid of old ovarian cysts. Lastly, there are the history and general symptoms, the uterine derangement, and pelvic tumour felt in the early stage of the ovarian disease ; the impaired health, oedema of the legs, and enlargement of the liver, which probably precede ascites. Into these it is not our province to enter. Operation.— The rule generally given is, that the patient must be seated in a chair,—that a broad towel must be passed round the lower part of the abdomen, its ends fobe crossed behind and intrusted to two assistants, who are to be instructed to draw it tight and support the belly as the fluid escapes. These precautions are taken, because of the risk that the removal of the compression to which the abdominal veins have been habituated, might cause the blood to gravitate into them from the heart and induce syncope, or that perhaps they might burst, and occasion a fatal hemorrhage. But this risk is entirely avoided if the plan be adopted of placing the patient in the recumbent posture on her side, at the edge of the bed, and turning her over as the fluid escapes ; and this plan is not only safer and more convenient, but more eflectual for getting rid of the fluid. But be this as it may, the surgeon, holding a trocar in a canula in his right hand, with the end of his forefinger about two inches from the point of the instrument, plunges it through the linea alba, two inches below the umbilicus; then holding in the canula with his left hand, he pulls out the trocar with his right. Modern instruments are provided with an India- rubber tube at right angles; so that the fluid may pass into a con- venient receptacle, without noise or splashing. Mr. Spencer Wells's syphon trocar has the additional advantage of permitting escape of fluid without the delay of withdrawing the trocar, a point of some