81 LUPUS EXEDENS. be given just before the menstrual period. If the surface form a scab, the writer finds it best to use no application at all. XVI. Lupus Exedens ( Corroding ulcer of Clarke, ulcere Rongeante, Rodent ulcer of Paget; Cancroide of Lebert; Esthiomene of Huguier ; chancrous, or cancerous ulcer, and Noli me tangere of older writers*) is an ulcer characterised by slow but constant increase, rebellious to all mild measures of treatment, and ultimately leading to fatal consequences, if not checked. Examples of it are found in the corroding ulcer of the uterus ; and in the lupus, or so-called cancroid ulcer of the skin of the face. It may aftect pharynx, oesophagu;5, or rectum. The exact pathology and cause of the disease are unknown. It is not cancerous ; there is no infiltration of cancer cells nor yet of epithelium ; the part affected ulcerates cleanly away, as if cut out with a punch, but up to the edge of the ulcer the tissues seem healthy, or at least contain such elements as are found in the base of all ulcers ; and there is neither swelling nor hardness nor adhesion of the part, nor of the ad- joining lymphatics. The corroding ulcer of the uterus is most common in women past child-bearing ; lupus exedens of the face in persons above forty, especially women. The parts of the face most commonly affected are the nose and the cheek below the eye. The disease may begin as a small vascular wart, as a smooth red shining tubercular swelling of the cutis vera, as a little elevation like a mole covered with dried cuticle, or as a small chap, or fissure. In this condition it may last for an almost indefinite time, till at length it spreads, forming a foul excavated irregular ulcer, with glassy non-granulating surface, and scanty ichorous discharge, eating away all before it in breadth and depth, till not merely the nose, or cheek, or eyelid may have perished, but the entire face is converted into one horrid chasm, with the eyeball dropping into the mouth. Treatment.—Everything may be hoped from free and early caute- rization ; but recollecting the name noli me tangere, the surgeon must be careful to destroy thoroughly, and not irritate by inetiicient mea- sures. Of caustics, therefore, the most energetic should be chosen, such as acid nitrate of mercury, F. 195; the Vienna paste (or compound of caustic potass with quicklime); the chloride of zinc, or arsenic. Of these, the arsenic is that which from long experience is believed to be the most efficacious. The most convenient mode of applying it is in the form of Manec's paste; which is composed of 15 grains of white arsenic, 75 of cinnabar, and 35 of burnt sponge, made into a thick paste, with a few drops of water. This should be thinly spread on the whole surface (previously cleansed from discharge and scabs) of the ulcer, if small ; or on a small portion of its surface if large, and be coveied * TJre on Lupus and the Chloride of Zinc, Med. Gaz. vols. xvii. and xviii.; and Cyclop. Pract. Surg. Art. Cauterants ; Earle, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii.; Travers, ib. vol. XV.; Burgess's trans, of Cazenave, p. 250; Brodie, Surgical Lectures; Walshe, on Cancer, p. 548; Liston, Lectures in Lancet, 18-14, vol. i. p. 775 ; Lebert, Traite'Prat, des Maladies Cancere'uses, 1851, pp. 591 and 658 ; Pagel'.s Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 452. D G