73 INDOLENT ULCER. The frequency with which the dressings should be changed must depend on the state of the discharge ; for if that be profuse they should be changed every day; otherwise from twice to four times a week will suffice. One thing scarcely noticed by writers, but perhaps of more con- sequence than most plasters, is the observance of perfect cleanliness. When it is considered how filthy the habits of many persons are, who often leave their legs and feet unwashed for weeks and months to- gether, it cannot be wondered that skin so neglected should, in the decline of life, possess a very imperfect vitality; and the author is convinced by experience, that daily washing the lower limbs with a piece of flannel and yellow soap and water, is one of the best means of reviving their decayed powers. During this plan of treatment, the patient may, after the first few days, walk about moderately; but he should not stand about, nor sit with the leg hanging down. If the common strapping irritate tlie skin, the empl. plumbi, spread upon cheap thin split leather, or the isinglass plaster, will answer better. But although the plastering and bandaging are adapted for most cases, the immediate application to the ulcer will require to be fre- quently varied. Sometimes the strapping may be applied without anything else ; or dry lint may be placed under it; or lint imbued with lotions of sulphate of copper, or alum ; or with lotions made by adding half an ounce of the tuicture of myrrh, or of benzoin (comp.), or aloes (comp.), to four ounces of water; or the balsams of copaiba or Peru; but metallic preparations agree better in general than the vegetable. The author fancies that resinous lotions and ointments are best when the skin is irritable and eczematous, or covered with scales of cuticle which readily peel off. In such cases plasters cannot be borne. The ung. hyd. nitric, oxid. is very useful;—and the ung. hydrarg. nitrat. dilut. is praised for its efficacy in reducing thick cal- lous edges. The green ointment is worth a trial. F. 171. Particular Plans of Treatment.—From the middle of the last cen- tury, when the surgeons of St. Thomas's Hospital were in treaty with an apothecary in Half Moon Street for the purchase of an infallible method of healing ulcers, or rather from time immemorial to the pre- sent, the multitude of plans recommended for the treatment of ulcers shows but too truly that they all often fail. Pressure forms the basis of many plans ; as Baynton's and Scott's, according to which the affected limb is enclosed in strips of plaster, regularly applied fi'om the foot upwards.* A well-applied calico bandage is always of service. A laced stocking, or elastic stocking, is still better. Pressure may be combined with exclusion of the atmo- * Baynton, T., Descriptive Account of a New Method of Treating Old Ulcers of the Legs, Bristol, 1797 ; Burnes, Lancet for 1847, vol. i.; Critchett, James Arnott, Chapman, and others in Lancet for 1848 and 1849 ; Burgess's Cazenave, p. 288 ; Gay, Lancet, 1853, vol. i, p. 566.