30 INFLAMMATION. tlie red particles time to sink and leave the tipper surftxce of the clot colourless. 2. There is an increased attraction of the red particles for each other, so that they form themselves into a network of rou- leaux, and sink with unusual rapidity: this is the view of Mr. Wharton Jones and Mr. Gulliver. 3. On Dr. Richardson's theory am- monia is the solvent of fibrine in blood, and the slow coagulation may depend on excess of the solvent, or on slow evolution thereof. 4. There is in inflammation an excess of fibrine in the blood ; a state to which the name hypermosis has been given. 5. The white particles of the blood sometimes constitute a great part of the buffy coat. The chemical composition of inflamed blood differs, according to Ancell, Simon, Becquerel, and Rodier, from that of healthy blood, in a diminution of the red particles and an increase of fibrine. Becquerel and Rodrer state that in tlie phlcgmasice the fibrine is increased invari- ably ; that the increase begins with the beginning and hists to the end, and is proportionate to the intensity of the inflammation; that it is present vvlietlier inllammation be the sole disease or be an acci- dental complication ; that blood-letting does not lessen its over-propoi - tion. It must be remarked that the buffy coat is especially found in acute rheumatism, pleurisy, bronchitis, and pneumonia, and that it is found in most inflammations. But it is also found in erysipelas, puer- peral phlebitis, phlegmasia dolens, tubercular phthisis, and in preg- nancy. It is the noinial condition in the horse. The proportion of fibrine may be increased from about 2 "5, the normal proportion, to 5, 7, or 10 grains per 1000. In typhus fiever, typhoid, and the ex- anthemata, an opposite state exists, called hypinosis. Agreeing that the buffy coat is present in inflammation, the next question is, what is the connection? Animal chemistry has endea- voured to supply the answer to this question. It has been supposed that fibrine is a deutoxide or tiitoxide of protein; that it is the pro- duct (as Becquerel and Kodier teach) of oxydation of albumen ; or (according to Simon) of the blood corpuscles. It has been proved that the fibrine and blood corpuscles are generally in the inverse ratio, one of another; and that this is due to the quickened circulation and re- spi)-ation, and increased oxidation and metamorphosis of the cor- puscles.* Vii chow, however, altogether denies the " orthodox" doctrine of hyperinosis. Instead of believing that the change in the blood is pri- maiy and intrinsic, he believes it to " depend upon the local inflam- mation. Certain oi gans and tissues have inherent in them in a higher degree the power of producing fibrine, and of favouring the occurrence of large quantities of fibrine in the blood." There must also be * See W. Hewson's Works, a medical classic that well deserves study; Sydenham Society, ed.; Wharton Jones, Guy's Hosp. Rep. vol. vii. N.S.; Richardson on Coagulation of Blood. Lond. 1858. Simon, op. cit.; Gulliver's Lectures on Blood, &c., Med. Times and Gaz, X863, vol. ii.; an admirable vindication of the English school.