DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 235 Treatment.—Rest, leeches, fomentations, and purgatives ; by which, if the pain and swelling are not relieved, a free incision should be made into it. XIV. Loose Cartilages, and melon-seed-shaped excrescences, are sometimes formed in the synovial sheaths of the hand and foot as they may be in the joints. They may be removed by subcutaneous incision. CHAPTER IV. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LYMPHATICS. I. Acute Inflammation of lymphatic .^^awfis has already been ex emplitied when speaking of bubo. The inflamed gland enlarges rapidly, and forms a hard, tense swelling, with great pain and fever. If it suppurate, there may be shivering, delirium, and intense constitutional disturbance, till the pus is evacuated. The affection may be caused, 1. Like any other acute abscess, by constitutional disorder. 2. By local violence, such as blows or kicks. 3. By the irritation or absorption of acrid matter from ulcers, blisters, or eruptions of the skin. 4. By simple injuries, a clean prick, for instance, in persons whose health is deranged. 5. By punctures inoculated with some irritant fluid, per- haps from a putrid body. When the disease arises from ulcers or punctures, the inflammation generally begins in the lymphatic vessels leading to the glands, which appear as red lines under the skin, and feel hard, cordy, and tender. If one of the Angers has been poisoned, there will be inflammation at the seat of injury, tender red lines extending up the front of the forearm, and a tender enlarged gland just above the inner elbow. When pain and fever are intense, it will be right to apply leeches, and afterwards warm fomentations; but in most cases, especially when the cause is constitutional, and the disease is allied to idiopathic abscess, it will be better to induce suppuration as soon as possible, by fomenta- tions and poultices ; and so soon as pus has formed, it should be dis- charged by free incision. The constitutional treatment must include moderate purgation, vegetable salines, F. 58 ; and the other measures directed for acute abscess, and for dissection wounds, II. Chronic Enlargement of these glands, is, 1, most frequently caused by deposit of exudation in scrofulous persons. One or more glands become enlarged; usually the submaxillary or cervical; during the early years of life they may suppurate, or the swelling may en- tirely subside, or may remain during the whole of life.—See Scrofulous Diseases. 2. Hjipertrophy, or infiltration with fibro-plastic matter, may con- vert one or more glands, especially in the neck, into hard, indolent, slowly-growing tumours; to be treated by cod-liver oil and iodide of iron or of potassium ; and if these fail, by the knife.