337 VARICOSE ANEURYSM. 3. There may be general oozing of blood from a wound, owing to some disorder of the general health, such as malarious fever in hot climates. Its causes and treatment are described in the Chapters on Hasmorrhage and Gunshot Wounds, p. 146. The surgeon must recol- lect its liability to occur in the female from the menstrual nisus, 4. Haemorrhage may occur from sloughing or from ulceration of an artery ; or from imperfect closure of an artery when a ligature sepa- rates ; through the influence of some diseased state of the artery or of the constitution, which has prevented the healthy process of adhesion. This form of hgemorrhage will be more likely to occur if the ligature was coarse, thick, and ill applied, so as to bruise the internal coats in- stead of cutting them evenly; or if the artery was much disturbed iu its sheath daring the operation. In such a case the only remedy is to cut down upon and tie the bleeding orifice; or, if that cannot be done, or the vessel be too diseased to hold the ligature, carefully-graduated pressure and styptics may be tried. A small button of lint, imbued with turpentine or with solution of perchloride of iron, may be put on the bleeding point (or the latter may be touched with a black-hot iron first), over that a larger compress, and so on, till Arm pi'essure can be produced. Should all these measures fail, the trunk must be tied above at tlie nearest point to the wound that is possible. In the case of haemorrhage from an artery laid open by hospital gan- grene or phagedaena, the actual cautery, with the free application of nitric acid, turpentine, or bromine, and pressure, are the best remedies. SECTION III.—I^FFDSED AND TRAUMATIC ANEURYSM, AND ANEURYSMAL VARIX. I. Diffused Aneurysm.—When an artery has been lacerated, by a broken bone, for instance, without a wound of the skin, or when an artery has been stabbed, and the wound in the skin has healed, but that in the vessel remains open, so that the blood escapes into the cellular tissue, a diffused aneurysm is said to be formed. But this term is not at all descriptive of the real state of things, and is very liable to lead the young practitioner into the error of treating the case as if it were a real aneurysm. The fact is, that a real aneurysm has a sac ; the dif- fused aneurysm has none. Hence the escape of blood from the wounded part may be unlimited. A true aneurysm may, however, become dif- fused by its sac being burst by a blow or giving way under the pres- sure of the forces of circulation. The symptoms are, a dark-coloured swelling of the limb; perhaps fluctuating; perhaps yielding some degree of pulsatory thrill, if the aperture in the artery is large; and most probably, if a main trunk is wounded, there will be coldness, numbness, absence of pulsation, and tendency to gangrene in the parts below. The case must not be treated as if it were an aneurysm, by a ligature high up ; but the main artery being compressed with the fingers, the swelling must be laid open, the blood removed, and the wounded part of the artery secured by two D Z