647 LITHOTKITY. Guido de Cauliaco, Hildanus, Haller, and others, down to the end of the eighteenth century. The attempts, however, were, as Mr. Coulson observes, isolated, and fruitless, till, in 1813, Gruithuisen, a Bavarian surgeon, published two memoirs on Lithotrity, and described his in- struments, consisting of "• a sti'aight canula, intended to pass into the bladder and serve as a conductor for a perforator, which was either lance-shaped or dentated ; a wire for seizing and fixing the calculus, a handle rapidly moved by a bow-drill, a branched forceps, and a hook for the purpose of crushing the fragments of stone when divided by the perforator." It does not appear, however, that these instruments were used either on the dead body or on the living, and the project was soon forgotten.* Following the historical summary prefixed to Mr. Coulson's very complete and elaborate Lectures on Lithotrity, originally published in the Lancet for 1852, and since collected into a separate volume, we find that the person who next toolc up the subject was Civiale. In the year 1817, then a poor student, he constructed the models of some in- struments, and the next year applied to the French Minister for pecu- niary aid towards carrying on his experiments. His chief instiument was a double metallic tube, the inner tube having six elastic steel branches at its extremity : these weie intended to grasp the stone, which was then to be bored by a lance-shaped lithotriteur. Pursuing his researches, Civiale, in 1819, reduced the six branches of his instru- ment to four, and in 1820 to three. He added a bow-drill; and with these improved instruments experiments were publicly made in 1822, at the Hospital of La Pitie', and in the dissecting-rooms of the Faculty. In 1819, Mr. Elderton published in the April No. of the ' Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal' a proposal for attacking calculi with a curved two-branched instrument and perforator. But Elderton's proposal, like Gruithuisen's, was unfruitful ; Civiale's was more fortunate. In April 1822, M. Amussat described an instrument which he had constructed for crushing stone. This was a strong two-bladed forceps acting laterally, concealed in a canula, and worked by a lever. In June of the same year, M. Leroy, now better known as Leroy d'Etiolles, produced an instrument, consisting of a double canula, of four long watch-springs, attached to the extremity of the inner canula, to catch the stone, and of perforators worked by a bow-drill. In April 1823, M. Leroy produced an improved instrument. The appearance of this drew M. Civiale from his retirement; but not till May 1823 did he publish an account of his process. On January 10, 1824, he performed his first operation in the presence of Barons Percy and Chaussier, commissioners appointed by the Faculty. The patient was relieved of his stone in two sittings; a third equally quickly. Thus Civiale is to be regarded as the inventor of lithotrity. Hitherto we have spoken chiefly of boring instruments. The first * Coulson on Lithotrity and Lithotomy, Lend., 1853.