183 HYDROPHOBIA. explain the mass of symptoms, which must depend on a peculiar change in the blood, or nervous system, or both.* Diagnosis.—The chief diagnostic signs are the spitting, and especially the influence of slight currents of air in bringing on the convulsive attacks. In July 1854, the writer saw a case with his friend Dr. Challice of Bermondsey. The patient, a middle-aged woman, had been bitten in the foot by a cat in the Apiil preceding. She was lying in bed, rational and tranquil, and nobody could have seen at the first glance that she ailed much. The writer took her hand to feel her pulse; and whilst doing so, breathed on it as gently as possible. In- stantly the poor woman started up in bed choking with spa.sm in the throat. This was sufficient for the diagnosis. Preventive Treatment.—As soon as possible after the bite of a suspected animal, the whole wound should be sucked, and so soon after as may be, should be excised or cauterized, or both. IMr. Youatt re- commended the nitrate of silver; and he certainly had a right to speak in fivour of it, since he was bitten many times, and escaped, though he used no other preventive ; and since he gives instances in which out of several animals bitten by the same dog, those which were cauterized by the nitrate of silver escaped all further mischief, whilst some which had the wound excised, or cauterized with a hot iron, were subsequently infected with rabies. These are certainly strong facts in favour of using the niti'ate of silver ; but cases have occurred in which the immediate and free application of it was useless. The rule generally given, however, is that the bitten part should be cut out, care being taken to carry the knife wide of the bite. After this, bleeding should be encouraged by the application of a cupping- glass ; or the wound should be long and diligently washed in warm water. And then (especially if the bite has been irregular, so that it is uncei'tain whether the excision has been complete) the raw surface may be cauterized by the nitrate, or by nitric acid; or by caustic potass. Chloroform will aid the surgeon in carrying out these dis- agreeable processes coolly and efficiently. When we consider that substances introduced fairly into the blood may find their way all over the body in an inconceivably short space of time (pro- bably in nine secondsf), it will be readily seen that excision or cauterization, although performed as soon as possible after the bite, may be of no avail. Yet they should never be omitted, let the interval be what it may. And one case is recorded in which it is said that the patient was saved although the parts were not cut out till the thirty-first day, and not till the symptoms had actually made their appearrance. This, however, is doubtful.J * A case of real hydrophobia, supposed to have occurred without any infec- tion, is quoted from the Trans, of the Coll. of Phys. of Philadelphia, in Prov. Med. Journ. for 1850, p. 225. But if the poison can be so readily imbibed, as we have shown, through a slight scratch, or through the unbroken skin, it is more probable that the disease in this case arose from infection, unsuspected, than that it was of spontaneous origin. t Blake, Edih. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. 1840. X Thompson, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii., and Lancet, Sept. 23, 1837.