787 AMPUTATIONS OF THE HAND. and thumb; consequently, in cases admitting of it, flaps may be made from the soft parts wherever practicable, and then the bone cut with forceps, Teale's plan of making a flap from the dorsal surfece has been adopted by Mr. S. Hey, with great advantage. Jn many cases a circular operation will preserve a longer stump than a flap. IV. Amputation op a finger at the metacarpal joint may be effected thus:—The surgeon should make out accurately the situa- tion of the joint between the head of the metacarpal bone or knuckle and the base of the first phalanx. If he looks for the transverse lines on the palmar aspect, that mark the flexure of the joint and divide the finger from the palm, he may calculate that the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, at which he is to amputate, is about half an inch nearer to the wrist than this line is. Tlien he may begin by making a semilunar incision on one side of the prominence of the knuckle, a quarter of an inch beyond the joint, and should carry it round in front of the joint to the web on the other side, thus encircling two-thirds of the joint. The finger should now be drawn to the other side, the extensor tendon cut through, and the point of the bistoury passed into the joint, and made to divide its ligaments. This will allow the head of the bone to be turned out, so that the bistoury being placed behind it may cut through the remaining attachments and make another flap. This operation may also be performed by making an incision on one side of the joint (as in the method just described), and then bringing it across the palmar surface, and round the other side, to terminate where it began. The tendons and ligaments are now to be divided, and the head of the bone turned out. The digital arteries must be tied, and after bleeding has ceased, the wound may be closed by confining the adjoin- ing fingers together. In patients for whom it is desirable to save the hand from much evident deformity, the head of the metacarpal bone should be cut off with the bone forceps, either instead of cutting through the joint or after this has been done. This enables the other fingers to be brought closer together after the amputation, so that the loss of the digit is less observable. Since, however, some of the strength of the hand is thereby sacrificed, this should not be done on the hand of a labouring man. Mr. Wood performs this operation by making two separate deep cuts with the bistoury on each side of the joint, meeting each other at each end, from the palmar to the dorsal aspect, and then severing the tendons and bone or joint. V. Amputation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb may be performed thus:—The thumb being held out, a bistoury is in- serted near the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, its point is thrust between the bone and the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and as close to the bone as possible, and brought out just above the articulation with the trapezium. This step is shown in Fig. 1. Secondly, the bis- toury is made to cut its way outwards. Thirdly, an incision, begin- ning at the upper extremity of the last, is carried along the bone, and round and behind the metacarpo-phalangeal joint to meet the other in- cision at its commencement (see Fig. 2). Fourthly, the bistoury