TUMOURS OF THE SKIN. 227 not always corns, but excessively irritable fungous warts, and con- sist of a growth from the cutis vera, not of a mere thickening of the cuticle. Treatment.—The points to be attended to are, to have the boots or shoes properly adapted to the shape and size of the feet;—to wash the feet every night, and to rub the corns every morning v/ith a little Naples soap, or some other kind of soap just moistened. If very pain- ful they may be poulticed at night, and kept moist by day with glyce- rine, so that they may be kept soft and pliable, not hard and dry. If these measures be adopted, and the part relieved from pressure, the corn will soon peel off. But some feet are so misshapen originally, or the toes are so crowded together by wearing small, low, pointed shoes, that it is impossible to contrive any shoes that will not press and create corns somewhere. In some of these cases the application of a plaster of thick soft leather, having a hole punched in it to receive the corn and relieve it from pressure, is a very useful device. If the corn is on the sole of the foot, a piece of felt, or small fold of flannel may be arranged so as to relieve it from pressure. For the soft corns between the toes, and for very irritable corns, the nitrate of silver is the best application. When a corn inflames, and matter forms beneath it, the pain is most excruci- ating, and only to be relieved by paring it down and letting out the fluid.* IV. Horny Tumours are formed by an inspissation of the matter of the sebaceous follicles, and by laminated growths of epithelium from their interior. They ai-e easily removed by two oval incisions.f V. Wens are encysted tumours, most common on the head, face, and shoulders, consisting of obstructed sebaceous glands (whose orifice may often be found in the form of a small black spot or crust), or else of erratically-developed cutaneous cysts. The matter contained is a collection of epidermic scales with hairs, oil-globules, and crystals of cholesterine, and has received the name atheroma or steatoma, from its I'esemblance to gruel or suet. Distension, suppuration, ulceration, and fungous granulation of the interior of the cyst sometimes occur. Treatment.—if an aperture is visible, and the tumour is not very large, it may be opened by a probe or director, and the contents be pressed out. Otherwise, it may be extiipated entirely by running a scalpel through it, seizing the cut edge of the cyst, and gently tearing it out with a touch or two from the knife. If the wen is much in- flamed, it may be laid open by a free incision, and be allowed to dis- charge its contents into a poultice, then to suppurate and contract. VJ. CiiELOiD Tumour (Kelis).—This consists essentially in an hypertrophy of the tissue of the true skin, intermixed with fibro- plastic matter. It presents itself in the form of one or more project- ing tumours, or of thickened reddish patches, in the substance of the * Brodie, Lecture on Corns. Med. Gaz. vol. xvii. p. 775; Key on Bunion, Guy's Hosp. Kep. vol. i. p. 416. t Vide Erasmus Wilson, Med. Cijir. Trans, vol. xxvii.