682 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. vent its reproduction. But, immediately after the caustic, a sponge dipped in diluted vinegar should be applied, in order to prevent injury to the surrounding sound parts ; and if it is necessary to introduce the caustic within the urethra, it must be by means of a tube which has an aperture in it corresponding to the diseased surface. VIII. Imperforate Hymen.—Sometimes this membrane com- pletely obstructs the vagina, and causes the menstrual fluid to accu- mulate and distend the uterus. The impediment is easily got rid of by a crucial incision. Then all the black treacly fluid that has accu- mulated should be immediately syringed out with warm water, other- wise it might putrefy, and cause typhoid fever and death. The abdomen should be bandaged, and the patient be confined to her bed till the uterus has resumed its healthy size. IX. The Labia may be the seat of acute inflammation, and of en- cysted tumours, which perhaps may be connected with the round ligament; of hernia, and of fibrous or fatty tumours. The treat- ment of these cases requires no distinct comments. The clitoris and nymphse, if they grow to an inconvenient size, should be curtailed by excision. X. Varicocele.—Enlargement of the veins of the labia, forming a soft tumour, which enlarges when the patient rises, and increases so as to form a most painful impediment to exercise, but disappears wheri she lies down. Treatment.—Cold bathing, and support by a firm truss, or T bandage with a pad. XI. Prolapse of the Vagina is a consequence of structural de- bility, and is liable to follow parturition, and to accompany and aggra- vate congestive diseases of the womb. When the posterior wall pro- lapses, bringing with it the rectum, there is great distress and difficulty in getting rid of the motions ; when the anterior wall with the bladder prolapses, there is a great irritability of the bladder; difficulty of emptying it; decomposition of residual urine, and other ill conse- quences. Cold astringent injections, tonics, baths of alum water, and firm perinseal bandage (see Bandages), are the first set of remedies. Should these fail, it may be necessary to resort to a pessary—a thing which no one, however, should use if he can help it. Lastly, there is the ingenious operation of I. B. Brown, which consists of two parts; first, in contracting the circumference of the vagina; secondly, in uniting the posterior portions of the labia, so as to bring forward the perinseum, as it were, to act as a natural cushion and support to the prolapsed parts. The first object is accomplished by denuding a longi- tudinal slip each side of the vagina, bringing the cut surfaces together longitudinally, and uniting them by suture; the second, by denuding and uniting the inner surfaces of the posterior halves of the labia, as in the operation for ruptured peringeum. XII. Cancer, of the Vulva ; fungoid bleeding projection, or scirrhous thickening, leading to deep and rapid ulceration, with adherent and hard base; must be treated as directed at p. 122. XIII. Corroding Ulcer, Epithelioma, Esthiomene of Eu-