184 THE GLANDERS. Whether the wound, after excision or caustic, should be allowed to heal, or be kept open, and made to suppurate by irritating ointments, is a disputed point. The weight of authoi'ity certainly favours the latter practice, and beyond the inconvenience it can do no harm. As for any other preventive treatment, all that can be done is to keep the patient in as good a state of health, and in as good spirits as possible. But there is not one of the innumerable so-called specifics that is worth a moment's trial. Curative Treatment.—Here we are met at the outset with the doubt whether hydrophobia can be cured at all; whether, like the plague and small-pox, it will not run its course, without the possibility of checking it. Mr. Youatt says that he believes he has occasionally prevented it in the dog, and that he has occasionally seen a case of spontaneous recovery; but that he has never cured it. Dr. Elliotson believes that the premonitory symptoms may show themselves in men and the disease go no further. But although it cannot be denied that a few rare cases have recovered, or have been reported as recoveries; for instance, one after enormous bleeding ; one fiom violent salivation ;* one from the use of lead in large doses ;f still the remedies that were supposed to be successful in these cases have been used again and again in others without benefit. Pages might be filled with an account of the remedies which have been resorted to in vain. Bleeding, which is quite inadmissible; the injection of warm water into the veins, which in Majendie's hands certainly proved a palliative; opium, which sometimes affords tempo- rary relief; Indian hemp :—of all which it may be said, that although they may mitigate the patient's sufferings, yet, that the disease seems to have in it some soui ce of mortality quite independent of outward or local symptoms, and not to be neutralized by any remedy yet within our reach. In the present state of our knowledge, the principal object is to allay the patient's sufferings. This should be done by keeping him perfectly quiet, and in the dark ; by the very gentle and protracted administration of chloroform, by food per anum, stimulants, and ice to the spine by means of Dr. Chapman's bag. For further details we may refer to the Chapter on Tetanus, with which this disease has the closest analogy. SECTION II.—THE GLANDERS. Definition.—The glanders is a disease of the horse tribe, commu- nicable to man and other animals. It is chiefly manifested by un- healthy suppuration of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavities, pustular eruptions on the skin, and unhealthy abscesses in the lym- phatic system. * Account of the effects of a bite of a wild jackal in a rabid state, as the same occurred at Kattywar, in the East Indies, in 1822. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii. 1825. t Med. Gaz., April 14, 1838.