206 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. where; and he will look to the nearest lymphatics—above the elbow if the finger be infected, below the jaw if the lip.* The following are the local affections which the patient is most likely to mistake for venereal sores. It must be remembered that he may have any of them and a venereal sore or sores besides. 1. Gonorrhcea externa, or balanitis, is an inflammation of the sur- face of the glans and inside of the prepuce, with profuse purulent dis- charge, and excoriation. It generally affects dirty people with long prepuce, and is caused either by the acrid secretions of the part, or by contact with unhealthy secretions in the female. Sometimes, however, it occurs to healthy people whose health is disordered. The thick, profuse discharge, the peculiar smell, the superficiality of the excoria- tions, distinguish this complaint from chancre and chancroid. The surface should be well washed, then dabbed with an astringent lotion, then be covered with bismuth powder or dry cotton wool. A pur- gative should be given. Lime-water is the best lotion if there is much in- flammation, and a grain of corrosive sublimate to an ounce and a half of lime-water if there is not. If the cure is not effected in two or three days, the excoriations should be touched with nitrate of silver. Some- times balanitis is attended with great inflammation and fever, and with phyimosis, from the great swelling of the prepuce; and the pain may be so severe and gnawing, as to make the surgeon uncertain whether there is not a phagedaenic ulcer concealed by the foreskin. The thick discharge, and the pain being general and not confined to one spot, form the chief means of diagnosis; and repeated injection of warm water and astringent lotions under the foreskin are the remedies. 2. Minute aphthoas-looking points, sometimes in clusters, sometimes surrounding the glans ; some of them healing, whilst others break out. They are totally devoid of pain ; and although they may last a long time, do not lead to ulcers. They are best treated by black wash or mere lime-water, or lotions of arg. nit. or cupr. sulph. and alteratives and aperients. 3. Herpes prceputialis^ begins with extreme itching and sense of heat. The patient examining the part, finds one or two red patches, about the size of a split pea'. On each patch are clustered five or six minute vesicles, which, being extremely transparent, appear of the same red colour as the patch on which they are situated. In twenty-four or thirty hours the vesicles become larger, milky, and opaque ; and on the third day they are confluent and almost pustular. If the eruption is seated on tlie inner surface of the prepuce, the vessels commonly break on the fourth or fifth day, and form a slight ulcer with a whiti * In the words of Ambrose Pare, " Qnand le malade a quelque vlcer malier aux parties hauteuses, calleux, dur, et difficile; et encore quand les viceres.soient consoliders, ( t qu'il y reste certaine durete " . . ."tumeurs aux aines, qui s'en returnant dedans le corps, sans de suppurer,"—CEuvres d'Ambrose Pare, par Malgaigne. Vol. ii. Paris, 1840. The English have characteristically claimed for Hunter the credit of pointing out the hardnets which had long before been observed by others. f Bateman on Cutaueous Diseases, 5th ed. p. 238; Burgess's Cazenavc, p. 88,