348 ANEURYSM. at rest by limiting its diastole. This may be left to the patient himself, if intelligent and made acquainted with the exact object of the process ; but he must be cautioned of the danger of sloughing from too violent compression. It may generally be left off at night. If the case goes on favourably, the aneurysm is, after a time, found to have lost its pulsation, and to have become solid. This happy event may occur in three or six days, or perhaps may require as many weeks; after which the tumour wastes slowly, and the lim.b may be brought into use again. In cases which do not admit of pressure being applied mediately, it may be tried cautiously on the tumour itself, or upon the artery below it. Cases are recorded which give room for hope from such measures.* 2. Continued Flexion was first proposed by Mr. Ernest Hart, and is one of those simple, common-sense methods which really are more difficult to hit upon than many complex and elaborate ones. The limb must be bandaged well, and evenly, from foot to thigh; the patient be quieted by opiates, and the knee-joint (if it be a popliteal aneurysm) gradually bent, and kept so. Thus the artery being bent transversely at right angles, has its calibre diminished. Digital compression may be used as an aid. This plan was first tried in this country by Mr. Hart in 1858 ; then by Mr. Shaw, of the Middlesex Hospital; Spence, of Edinburgh ; Pemberton, Durham ; and many others.f 3. By Ligature.—In cases in which the above plans are inapplicable or unavailing, the artery must be tied between the aneurysm and the heart. The operation, it is generally taught, according to Hunter, should be performed neither too near the aneurysm, so as to place the ligature on a portion of the vessel that is diseased, nor too far from it, lest the circulation through it be kept up too freely, by means of collateral branches. After the operation, the temperature of the limb falls two or three degrees; but in a few hours it rises rather higher than that of the opposite limb, because the blood is forced to circulate through the superficial capillaries. Subsequently it sinks again rather below the natural standard. Therefore the patient should be placed in bed, with his limb in an easy position; wrapped up in cotton wool, to preserve its circulation ; and though it become rather swelled (which is not unlikely), cold must on no account be applied. After the operation the limb may become gangrenous. If the gangrene spread beyond the fingers or toes, amputation should be performed at the level of the ligature. Brasdors operation.—\Yh.en. a ligature cannot be applied—as in aneurysm of the carotid, innominata, or subclavian—between the * For the earlier cases, see Dr. 0. B. Bellingham, Dublin Journal, May 1845; Greatrex and Robinson, M. C. T., vol. xxviii.; Carte, Dublin, Med. Press, May 16, 1849 ; case of axillary aueurism cured by compression on the distal Side, by Dr. M. Goldsmith, of America, ib.; for the later, Bellingham, Med. Chir. Trans., xxxiv.; and cases by Tuffnell, Cock, B. Phillips, and others, in Ranliing, vol. xvii. For a summary of objections see Mr. Syme's Contributions. f See Hart in Med. Cliu*. Trans, vol. xlii. ; also Med. Times, 1862, vol. i. p. 145 ; also report of paper read at Med. Chir. Soa Dec. 8, 1863; Med. Times, 1863, vol. ii. p. 657.