138 CHAPTER III. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. SECTION I.—GENERAL DESCRIPTION. Definition.—Under the term gun-shot wounds are included all the injuries caused by shot and other substances discharged from fire-arms, by fragments of stone or splinters of wood struck thereby, and by the bursting of fire-arms, and of shells. *' The cannon-shot," says Mr. Cole, " for the first five or six hundred yards grinds to powder and destroys everything that opposes its hissing course."* If it strikes a limb it either carries it away or completely smashes it, pulpifying all the tissues with which it comes into contact. The shock in such cases is always very severe, and often fatal of itself. The haemorrhage is usually slight: a gush of blood escapes at the moment the injury is inflicted, but the torn vessels soon retract, and the bleeding for a time is stopped. There were, however, a few instances, during the Crimean campaign, in which fatal haemor- rhage from the femoral artery was caused by cannon-shot injuries. When the shot has travelled some distance, so as to have lost a por- tion of its impetus, the injury which it inflicts is often even greater. Instead of going right through the part struck, it will allow itself to be guided, or its course to be changed, by objects which it may meet in its way, and will thus give rise to wider and more seiious injuries. This happened in the case of a private in the First Eoyals, who was working in the trenches before Sevastopol. He was in the act of shovelling up some earth, with his body bent, and his right hand, in which he held the handle of the shovel, low down in fi ont of the space between his legs. In this position he was struck by a round shot. It shattered his arm, leaving it hanging only by the integuments, and, passing between the thighs at their upper part, it tore away from each of them a large mass of the integuments and muscles, and laid bare the femoral artery on one side. It carried in front of it the penis, and scrotum, and anus, and, guided by the curve of the buttocks, it swept away a large portion of the glutaii of one side. Cannon-shot when nearly spent may produce severe injury without breaking the skin. Bones may be broken, or the deep tissues so con- tused as to lead to sevei e sloughing and loss of the parts. However near the end of its career a round shot may be, it still carries destruction with it; and many a soldier's foot has been knocked off, when put out to stop a shot, slowly ricochetting along like a cricket-ball. * Cole, J. J., Military Surgery, or Experience of Field Practice in India during the years 1848 and 1849. Lend. 1852.