GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 141 which it entered. In a similar manner balls will run along concave surfaces: thus a soldier may be struck in the wrist, when the arm is bent in the act of firing, and the ball may graze along the arm, and fly off at the shoulder : or a ball may enter the thorax or abdomen, glide along the inner surface of the peritoneum or pleura, and pass out or be lodged near the spine. If a ball has passed through a part, an orifice of entrance and one of exit is usually found. The orifice of entrance is generally smaller than the ball, with its edge livid, and inverted. That of exit is a larger and more ragged opening, with its edge somewhat everted. The difference in appearance between the entrance and exit of the ball is, however, much modified by the speed at which the ball is travelling when it strikes the patient, and by the resistance of the parts perfo- mted in its course through. The increased velocity with which the new rifles propel the balls, causes them to enter and leave a body without its offering sufficient resistance to produce a difference in the appearance of the two wounds. If, however, the speed of the ball's course be diminished, and a limb be then perforated by it, we have the characteristic appearances of its ingress and egress well marked. The ball in its passage through a part leaves a track which is often indicated by a bluish or dusky-red line or wheal on the skin, or some- times by a peculiar emphysematous crackling. Along this track the tissues are bruised and broken down, and their vitality greatly de- stroyed, and lying in difTei'ent parts of it are the fragments of foreign bodies which the bullet may have carried before it. SECTION II.—LODGMENT AND EXTRACTION OF BALLS. Lodgment of Balls.—Wounds by gun-shot missiles may be either penetrating, usually attended by lodgment of the missile in some part of the body, or perforating, in which the missile passes through and out of the body or limb. It is always imporfcmt to ascertain whether the shot has passed out of the body, or whether it has lodged ; and sup- posing that there are two holes, it must be considered whether they are produced by the entrance and exit of one, or by the entrance of tv:o distinct balls. If there are two holes, and they are distant from each other, some light may be thrown on the question by ascertaining the position of the patient at the time he was wounded, and the posture of his assailant. Thus, a soldier has presented himself with two shot- holes, one on the outside of the ankle, the other near the trochanter ; but they were both caused by the same ball, which entered at the ankle when the foot was raised in the act of running.* In another in- stance, a soldier, who was ascending a scaling-ladder, was wounded in the right arm, and the ball was found under the skin of the opposite thigh.t As a rule, one opening only being present indicates that the ball has lodged, but, in some instances, it may have escaped by the hole at which it entered, after having made the circuit of the body. Or * Guthrie, op. cit. p. 17. f Hennen, op. cit. p. 35.