ULCERATION. 69 of the cervix uteri. Some say that a given disease is ulcer, others that it is not. We shall endeavour to be precise, by separating excoriation or epithelial sore, or chafing of skin or mucous membrane, from ulcer. (1.) By excoriation, we mean a loss of epithelium, or change in the character of epithelium. Thus, if the skin in the chinks and creases of a fat child's thighs be kept moist and dirty, the dry cuticle is replaced by a secretion of purulent stuff. If the cuticle be stripped off the skin by violence, or if it be raised by scalding water or any other vesicant, the same happens. A mucous surface may have en- larged papillge and copious secretion of epithelium and pus, and look like an ulcer, but no loss of substance. Hence, in many so-called ulcers of skin and mucous membrane there is no chasm or loss of sub- stance, rather the reverse. Enlarged papillae and profuse secretion of epithelium of all grades between healthy epithelium and pus, constitute the patches known as intertrigo, raised ulcer, and mucous tubercle. There are many conditions of the skin, such as psoriasis, in which there is increased vascularity and copious growth of epithelium, which do not resemble ulcers, because the epithelium is dry; but if similar patches appear on the fauces, or any other moist surface, they look like raised ulcers. (2.) True ulcers generally begin as excoriations. Then the skin beneath begins to melt away, its surface being covered with a tenacious slimy matter. If this is wiped off, or separates, the surface underneath is seen to be red, and it easily bleeds. Supposing the case to pi'oceed, there is formed a chasm, eaten into irregular hollows with intervening red eminences, which easily bleed if touched; its edges are ragged or undermined; the surrounding skin red, hot, and swollen ; there is a thin serous or bloody discharge, and a severe gnawing pain. An ulcer having these characters is called inflamed, or irritable, and may always be considered as extending itself. Pathology.—The ulcerative process consists, as was shown bj Goodsir, of two apparently incompatible processes—one formative, one destructive. It usually happens that a part whose vitality is already impaired, such as the skin of the leg of a dirty old woman whose veins are varicose, becomes inflamed. It becomes somewhat infiltrated with lymph or cell growth ; this softens and perishes, and the infiltrated skin with it bit by bit. In some ulcers very little of the formative element is seen, healthy or morbid. Such ulcers are indol&nt. Such are the ulcers of the mucous membrane of the stomach, of the cornea, &c., which have sharp edges, looking as if punched out, but with no swelling, redness, or other sign of action. Others evidently depend for their spread on the increase of a morbid cell-growth with which they began ; such as the syphilitic, scrofu- lous, epithelioma, cancerous, typhoid and tubercular ulcers of the intestines, &c. The morbid cell-growth in the form of granulations often attains such dimensions as to be called fungous; and as it resembles fungi in cellular structure, so it does also in the rapidity with which it may perish and rot, or slough.