20 CHAPTER III. NERVOUS PAIN. As all hyper£cmia is not inflammation, so neither is all pain. Pain may arise from muscular spasms or cramp, or from some diseased condi- tion of the nerves, or of the nervous centres, without the existence of the least inflammation. Such pain, nervous pain, as it is commonly called, may often be known by its capriciousness; by its coming and going without apparent cause, or with no other cause than the patient's mind being directed to it. It is often intermitting. It is often re- lieved by measures that would aggravate inflammation, such as sti- mulants, pressure, and friction; and almost infallibly aggravated by leeches, blisters, and other remedies that would relieve inflammation if it existed. It is often intense in proportion to the anaemic and debili- tated condition of the patient. It is often intense out of all proportion to heat, swelling, and redness, even if they are present at all. In its character it is often violently plunging or shooting, and is compared by the patient to the running through of a red-hot wire, or the passage of an electric shock. It may last for weeks or months without being fol- lowed by any of the changes of structure which are commonly called inflammatory. Lastly, it may be felt in parts quite remote from any morbid action, or may be refierred to parts of the body destitute of sen- sation (thus after fracture of the spine severe pain has been felt in the legs, though quite insensible to the touch), or may be referred to parts that have no existence, of which the pain felt in limbs long since ampu- tated may be an example. The treatment of this condition will be found in Part IV., under the head of Neuralgia. CHAPTER IV. EXUDATION, CELL GROWTH, AND GENESIS OF DISEASE. There are few surgical diseases in which the part affected does not suffer enlargement or tumour. Some kinds of tumour are caused by mechanical conditions, as the enlargement of arteries io aneurism, that of veins in varix, that of hernia, or protrusion of the bowels, &c. Some other tumours may be caused by the intrusion of air, as in em- physema, or of blood, as in ecchymosis, or of serum which has oozed from distended veins, as in cedema. But there are other swellings, which seem to depend, not on mere misplacements or mechanical con- ditions, such as the foregoing, but on increase of the structural ele- ment of the part affected, or iipon the presence within it of structural elements in various states of development which often seem to be intruded into it. Of this kind of tumour are 1st, The hypertrophies,