428 CATARACT. This operation may also, according to Mr. Tyrrell, be occasionally re- sorted to, in order to diminish the size of the lens, previously to depres- sion or extraction. IV. Linear Extraction consists in removing the lens through a small opening in the cornea. It was originally introduced by Mr. Gibson of Manchester; but had long fallen into disuse, when it was again brought forward by Mr. Bowman in this country, and by Pro- fessor von Grsefe in Germany. A small opening is made at a little distance from the margin of the cornea, the capsule is freely lacerated, and the fragments of the lens are removed by the curette. As the use of the curette is liable to excite inflammation of the iris, Professor von Grasfe commences his operation by removing a small portion of it {iri- dectomy), so as to facilitate the removal of the nucleus. V. Schuft's operation is essentially the same as that of Professor Grsefe, but he has introduced several modifications, especially the use of a new form of scoop, by which he maintains that the operation, which was formerly considered as applicable only in soft cataracts, may be employed with advantage even in the hardest lenses. The removal of a portion of the iris, and the risk of bad consequences from the free use of the scoop, constitute serious objections to these operations in the minds of some surgeons. Operation on Infants.—Congenital cataracts should be operated on early—within four months, if possible, lest the eye, which, when born blind, habitually oscillates from side to side, may never acquire the power of being directed to one particular object. The pupil being well dilated, the child, narcotized by chloroform to insure quietness, should be placed on a table—the head on a pillow, and rather hanging over it—one assistant holding the legs and trunk, a second the arms and chest, a third, fixing the head between his two hands, and a fourth, depressing the loicer eyelid with one hand, and steadying the chin with the other. The operator then, seated behind the patient, performs the operation for absorption as before described. Care must be taken not to dislocate the lens. The operation on children, and, in fact, on per- sons under twenty, generally excites so little inflammation, that both eyes may be operated on at once, but the bowels must be kept open, and leeches should be applied if there be pain. Capsular Cataract.—When congenital cataract of the capsulo- lenticular sort is left to itself, the lens often becomes absorbed, and the capsule, which is mostly tough or opaque, remains in the field of vision ; and it sometimes happens that an opaque capsule is left, or that it be- comes opaque after one of the operations for cataract. There are three plans of treatment. 1. One needle, or better, still, two, as recom- mended by Mr. Bowman,* may be introduced, as for depression; and then may be made to tear through the opaque capsule, which then may shrink and leave the pupil clear. 2. The upper part of the capsule, for four-fifths of its circumference, may be detached by the needle from the suspensory ligament, and then be pushed down below the * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxvi.