723 INTENSE COLD. operation, or the extraction of teeth, painless. Galvanism and electri- city have been tried, and failed; and a combination of narcotic appli- cations with galvanism has been tried by Dr. Richardson with very unsatisfactory results. Creosote soothes decayed teeth, and carbonic acid the surface of ulcers. A small quantity of chloroform put into a spoon, and evaporated over a candle, will allay the pain of an ulcer. But the most efficient local anaesthetic we are at present acquainted with, is Intense Cold, the properties of which have been explored by Dr. James Arnott. The writer has witnessed his mode of applying it, and has applied it himself, thus :— The operator must be provided with about a quarter of a pound of ice, broken quite fine, which may be effected by putting it into a small canvas bag, and using a mallet or flat iron. "The pounded ice having been placed on a large sheet of paper, any loosely cohering particles may be separated by a paper-folder, and the unreduced larger bits re- moved. Beside it, on the paper, about half its weight of powdered common salt is placed, and they are then thoroughly and quickly mixed together, either by the folder while on the paper, or by stirring them in a gutta-percha, or other non-conducting vessel. If the mixture be not quickly made, the extreme cold of part of it may again freeze other parts of it into lumps.'' There must be in readiness a small net of thin gauze, into which the mixture is put; and as soon, says Dr. Arnott, as the action of the salt upon the ice appears by the dripping of the brine, it is ready for use. The part to be benumbed should be held horizontally, and the net should be laid over it; but it is as well to raise the net once in every three or four minutes, in order to watch the effects, and render them equal. A sponge should be held so as to catch the briny fluid that escapes. The process requires a little nicety, which one or two trials will give. If it be nicely performed, it makes the skin immediately pale and benumbed, but gives no disagreeable sensation. This efi^ect gradually increases, till the skin is shrunk, of a peculiar tallowy corpse-like pale- ness, perfectly insensible, and stifiish. Dr. Arnott believes that, by protracted application of the ice, the fat is congealed. The process, as the author can testify, is rapid and painless; and when the effects or the cold have passed off, if the part be bathed with cold or iced water, or covered with a bladder containing it, there will be very little ting- ling or inflammation ; possibly a little redness. Unquestionably, if the application be continued for an unreason- ably long time—say for an hour or two—or if heat be incautiously applied too soon afterwards, the same effects may ensue as those which we have described at p. 165, under the head of frost-bite, parti- cularly if the patient be of a bad or weakly constitution. But the moderate and judicious use of cold is followed by no ill consequence whatever, and it seems to promote the process of healing. As an anaesthetic remedy, it appears amply sufficient, and well adapted for most of the minor operations, such as those on small tumours, abscesses, warts, inverted toe-nails, fistula, piles, varicose