502 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONSILS. is flabby and swollen; as well as in the catarrhal rhinorrhoea, in throat deafness, and in coughs attended with copious expectoration. In order to inhale etiectually it is necessary to have some apparatus; and the essence of all such apparatus is, that they have one passage for introducing the external air below the sur- face of the liquid whose vapour is employed; another through which the patient can draw the air mixed with vapour into his mouth. The cheapest and most efficient inhaler the author is acquainted with is a simple double tube with mouthpiece, sold by G. Mawe, of Aldersgate Street. But, for the sake of the poor, he lecommends one to be made thus:— Take any large stone or glass bottle with a wide mouth, and a soft cork ; take two pieces of German glass tubing; bend the shorter one at an angle to serve as mouthpiece; put the ends into a gas flame, to melt off" any sharp edges; boi-e' the cork, by means of a ]-at's-tail file, with two holes for the tubes to pass thi'ough; put the necessary liquid into the bottle; insert the cork with the tubes, and the machine is ready for use. The most efficient vapours are evolved from boiling water, to which twenty drops of creosote, or the same of tincture of iodine, have been added. If these measures fail, and such an operation is deemed necessary, part of the gland should be removed with the knife—a much more ex-^ I)editious and cleanly method than the ligature. The surgeon seizes the tumour with a hook or forceps (depressing the tongue with its handle), then introduces a blunt-pointed curved bistoury, and shaves a thin slice off", cutting upwards, parallel to the isthmus faucium. The nearest half of the blade of the bistoury should be wrapped in lint, to prevent the lips from being cut; and in operating on the right side, the surgeon will find it most convenient to cross his hands, the left, holding the forceps, being undermost. Very little should be removed ; not only to avoid heemorrhage, but likewise because of the possible truth of Mr. Harvey's theory that removal of the tonsils interferes with the development of the genital organs. There are certain guillo- tine instruments which can also be very adroitly used for this purpose. Specimens of excised tonsils which the author has examined have been infiltrated with cells, most of them exactly resembling pus. III. Enlargement of the Uvula produces tickling cough and expectoration by irritating the larynx. If it does not yield to the treat- ment directed tor enlarged tonsil, it should be stretched and steadied with a Ibrceps, and be cut through the middle with a pair of long; scissors. Our design being to describe such affections only of these parts as