APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 827 R. Antimonii potassio-tartratis gr. iij.; tincturae opii f3ss.; aquse f^vj. Misce. Dosis, cochleare unum omni semihoia, vel majori in- tervallo donee delirinra cessaverit. Tn certain cases of delirium tremens and fever in which depletion is inadmissible, and excitement great, and strength sufficient. See Dr. Graves's Clinical Medicine. 69. Colchicum Draughts, R. Vini radicis colchici f3ss.; syrupi f3ss. ; aquae f^j. Mi^ce, fiat haustus quartis—sextis horis sumendus. 70. Colchicum and Magnesia, R. Vini colchici f3ij.; solutionis magnesite* f^iss.; misturaj camphorae f^ivss. Misce; sumantur cochlearia duo quarta quaque hora. Et. Magnesise carbonatis, sodae sesquicarbonatis aa ^^s.; vini semi- num colchici TY\xv.; aqua3 piraentas t^jss. Misce, fiat haustus ter die sumendus. 71. White Purgative Draught with Colchicum. R, Aceti colchici f5j.; magnesiae sulphatis 3ij.; magnesiae carbo- natis 3j'; syrupi zinziberis f5j.; aquae anethi f3x. Misce. {Sir C. Scudaviore.) 72. Antilithic Pill. R. Extracti colchici acetic), hydrargyri cum creta aa gr. j.; extract! colocynthidis compositi gr. ij. Misce fiat pilula omni nocte sumenda. Sir A, Coopers Prescription for Chronic Gout and Pheumatism. R. Potassae bicarbonatis 3ss.; tincturae aurantii f3ij.; decocti aloes compositi t'^viij. Misce ; sumatur cyathus vinarius omni mane. 1816 by Sherwood. The author says, page 5, " Any fever may soon be extin- guished by the use of the following powders:—Take of tartarized antimony five grains; white sugar or nitre a drachm. Let them be well rubbed in a glass mortar, and be divided into six powders; one to be taken every three hours, notwithstanding the nausea the first may probably occasion. If they bring on a diarrhoea they should still be conthiued, and it will soon cease. If these are taken (which is most commonly the case) without any manifest inconvenience, let there be seven grains in the next six powders, and in the next, ten. Here I beg leave to retract what I said in some former editions of this work: viz., that till sickness and vomiting was excited, this noble medicine was not to be depended on. For 1 have seen many instances wherein a paper has been given every three hours (of which there have been ten grains in six powders), with- out the least sensible operation, either by sickness, stool, urine, or sweat, and though the patients had been unremittingly delirious for more than a week with subsultus tendinum, and all the other appearanc es of hastening death, they have perfectly recovered without any other medical aid, a clyster every other day excepted." * Made by Murray or Dinneford.