74-5 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. siderable venous haemorrhage will be encountered in this operation, which is very difficult to execute well, even on the dead body. in. The Internal Carotid is sometimes wounded by gashes, stabs, or shot from without, or by punctures from within, as may happen when a person falls down with a tobacco-pipe in his mouth, and drives it through the back of the pharynx. In such cases, ligature of the common carotid is a very uncertain remedy, and Mr. Guthrie proposes (in compliance with the rule of always securing a wounded artery by two ligatures, one above and one below the wounded part) to reach the wounded vessel by operation. The leading feature of this operation is, the removal of the second molar tooth, and division of the lower jaw-bone, so that the angle of that bone may be everted, and room be given for reaching the vessel. Mr. Mayo once tied this artery, and in order to reach it cut through the styloid process of the temporal bone.* ly. The -Lingual Artery may be tied by making a transverse incision along the os hyoides, from a little below the symphysis of the jaw to near the border of the sterno-mnstoid muscle. The skin, pla- tysma, and fascia being divided, and the lower border of the sub- maxillary gland turned up, the artery must be looked for where it lies upon the greater cornu of the os hyoides, below the digastric muscle and ninth nerve. This artery has been tied in cases of tumours and wounds of the tongue; but, considering the depth at which it lies from the surface, the irregularity of its origin, and the important parts in its vicinity, it is much better*, as a general rule, to tie the external or common carotid. V, The Facial Artery may easily be tied by cutting through the skin and areolar tissue that cover it where it turns over the jaw, at the anterior border of the masseter; but such an operation can hardly ever be requisite. section II.—the innominata, subclavians, and arteries of the arm. I. The Arteria Innominata has been tied in cases of aneurysm of the right subclavian, extending inwards as far as the scalenus. The patient being placed on his back, with the shoulders raised and the head thrown back, one incision, two inches in length, is to be made along the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, terminating at the clavicle, and another across the origin of that muscle, meeting the former at a right angle. The flap of integument thus formed is to be turned up, and the sternal and part of the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid are to be divided on a director, which is to be passed behind the muscle, and kept as close to it as possible. The areolar tissue and fat which now appear, being turned aside, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles must be separately divided on a director. A * For further particulars of Mr. Guthrie's operation see Lancet, 1850, vol. ii., p. 143.