AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 792 the articulation of the great toe to the inner cuneiform bone (to which the tendon of the tibialis anticus may serve as a guide) being ascer- tained, a semilunar incision, with the convexity forwards, is made down to the bone, across the instep, from a point just in front of the aforesaid articulation, to the outside of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. The flap of skin thus formed being turned back, the bistoury is first to be passed straight across the tendons and vessels so as to cut them a little shorter than the integuments, then to be passed round behind the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone, so as to divide the external ligaments which connect it with the cuboid. The dorsal ligaments are next to be cut through, and then the remaining ones, the bones being depressed. The fourth and third metatarsal bones are to be disarticu- lated in a similar manner, dividing their ligaments with the point of the knife, and taking care not to let the instrument become locked be- tween the bones. The first metatarsal is next to be attacked, and lastly, the second, the extremity of which, being locked in between the three cuneiform, will be more difficult to dislodge. Perhaps it may be convenient to saw it across. When all the five bones are detached, the surgeon completes the division of their plantar ligaments, and slightly separates the textures which adhere to their under surface with the point of the knife, and then, the foot being placed horizontally, he puts the blade under the five bones, and carries it forwards along their \ inferior surface as far as the root of the toes, so as to form a flap from the sole of the foot sufficient to cover the denuded tarsal bones. V. Amputation through the tarsus, so as to remove the navicular and cuboid bones, with all the parts in front of them, is com- monly called Choparfs operation. In the first place, the articulation of the cuboid with the OS calcis (which lies about midway be- tween the external malleolus and the tuber- osity of the fifth metatarsal bone), and that of the navicular with the astragalus (which will be found just behind the prominence of the navicular bone in front of the inner ankle), must be sought for; and a semilunar incision be made from one to the other, as in the last-described operation. The flap of the skin being turned back, the internal and dorsal ligaments that connect the navicular to the astragalus, are to be divided with the point of the bistoury, recollecting the convex shape of the head of the latter bone. The liga- ments connecting the os calcis and cuboid are next divided, and, lastly, a flap is to be pro- cured from the sole of the foot. It may be expedient, after this opera- tion, to divide the tendo Achillis if the heel is drawn backwards.