255 NON-UNION OF FRACTURE. swelling comes on, and be afterwards tightened sufficiently to keep the parts steadily in their place; and care must be taken to prevent pain- ful pressure on any particular spot, and to rectify any displacement as soon as it may occur. If the fingers or toes become blue or benumbed, the surgeon should remember the possibility of gangrene from too tight a bandage. If through mismanagement, a fracture has united crookedly, the pa- tient should be narcotized by chloroform, and the uniting or united part be bent, or even broken, if necessary, so as to restore the right shape. Such a proceeding may easily be effected before the fourth week, and the author knows cases in which it was done successfully after many months. Habitual Deformity must not be confounded with fracture or dislocation. When a person who has met with a fall, or other accident, is found to have a limb shortened or misshapen, the surgeon should always ask whether or not there was any deformity before the accident, else he may fall into the ridiculous error of treating an old deformity as if it were a recent injury. SECTION IX.—NON-UNION AND FALSE JOINT. . There are some cases in which fracture of the shafts of bones does not unite by bone. This is liable to happen:— 1st. If tlie fractured part is subjected to frequent motion and dis- turbance ; in which case the effused lymph, instead of ossifying, will either be converted into bands of fibrous tissue, uniting the broken ends, or else a false joint will be formed ; the ends of the bones being covered with synovial mem- brane, and surrounded with a liga- mentous capsule. 2nd]y. The reparative processes may be deficient if the vital powers are exhausted by age and debility; or if the system is under the influence of gout, syphilis, or cancer; or if an acute disease or fever comes on; or if the part be deprived of its nervous influence. Thus Mr. Travers relates a case in which a patient had a fracture of tlie arm and of the leg, and like- wise an injury of the back, which palsied the lower extremities. The arm united readily enough, but the leg did not. In some cases of women, pregnant or suckling; broken bones have not united; but they more frequently do so. But yet there are some cases which it is as diflicult to account for as it is to remedy.