GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 145 During the stage of collapse, the patient presents a blanched sur- face ; the face pale, pinched, and anxious ; the extremities cold ; the pulse small, weak, often irregular and fluttering; the voice feeble. Such is the usual condition of the patient, varying of course in degree, when he is first seen by the surgeon. It is a question, therefore, of great moment whether it is best to rouse him from this state of collapse. The nature of the wound must answer this question. If the ball has penetrated the thorax or abdomen, it is best not to attempt to rally him too soon ; vessels may be wounded which it is impossible for the surgeon to secure, and this depressed state is most favourable for nature to form a coagulum, and arrest h£emorrhage. The patient should be placed in bed, with his head low, and be carefully watched, in order, by the judicious application of stimu- lants, warmth to the feet, &c., to prevent the collapse proceeding to too great an extent; in feet, to save him from sinking from the efiects of tliat which, if not carried too far, is most favourable for his ulti- mate recovery. The same rules apply to all cases where large vessels have been, or are supposed to be wounded. When, however, the injury is superficial, or even when it is deep without affecting important vessels, the patient should be rallied from the shock he has received as soon as possible, as reaction is generally in proportion to the amount of depression. SECTION IV.—HyEMOURKAGE FROM GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. HAEMORRHAGE.—Primary or immediate haemorrhage following gun- shot wounds, especially if they are severe, is of comparatively rare occurrence. There may be some slight bleeding at the time the wound is in- flicted, but not, as a rule, in any dangerous quantity. During the Crimean war there were frequent instances in which the upper or lower extremities were torn otF by round shot or shell, and left hanging merely by the integuments, and yet, in the majority of such cases, no immediate haemorrhage resulted which at all jeopardized life. After gun-shot injuries in which the blood-vessels are involved it is usually found that they are much lacerated, and retracted within their sheaths, and thus hasmorrhage is checked for a time. Occasionally cases occur where the femoral or some large vessel has been wounded, and htemorrhage has rapidly proved fatal. In such instances, it is pro- bable that the ball carried away a portion of the calibi'e of the artei y, without entirely dividing it. The very elastic nature and yielding attachments of arteries and veins in certain parts allow of an injury very near without opening the tube of the vessel. In one case given by Mr. Guthrie, a musket ball passed transversely across the middle of the thigh and directly between tlie femoral artery and vein, bruising but slightlv the coats of these A-essels. D ' L