22 EXUDATION AND CELL GROWTH. in considerable quantity, and serves as a sort of fiamework, in which the vessels and tubes and follicles, with their epithelial contents, are imbedded." According to this school, the cell-structures which cha- racterize the so-called inflammatory exudations, the eil'usions in repair and in tumours, arise from the nuclei of the connective tissue and of other tissues, as tendon, cartilage, muscle, &c. 3. If the first set of doctrines may be called the " coagulable lymph pathology,"* and the second, the " cellular pathology," there is yet a third which may be called " germinal pathology." f This regai ds the mass of the animal body as composed of two sorts of substances—one the active living growing formative, or germinal material—the other, the formed matter, which has been elaborated by the vital agency of the first, and lasts a given time, forming the bulk of structures, and in the end decays, and is absorbed. The pulp of teeth, or rather the matter which fills the dentinal tubes, the nuclear matter in the lamina; of bone, and nuclei generally, ai-e examples of the germinal material ; the earthy matter of tooth and bone, the intercellular, or internuclear portions, are examples of the portions which are formed and have no inherent vital force. The germinal matter exists in masses corre- sponding usually with nuclei, but the existence of actual nuclei, or of cell forms, is not essential. Germinal matter can only be produced by geiTninal matter, and may exist in the blood and elsewhoe in a state of division so minute as to be invisible by the highest glasses; it is the living, moving, formative element, distinguished after death by the ease with wliich it takes coloration by carmine; it attracts material from the blood, and converts it into tissue. If, as the last doctrine assumes, " germinal material," living matter, may exist in the blood in a state of sub-division so minute as to be invisible to the highest microscopes, and to be able to transude the capillaries without rupture, there is little difference between the "lymph pathology" and the "germinal pathology" in accounting for the origin and nature of many diseases. For examjjle, we may speak a. Of local diseases—changes which originate in the minute living structures of some part, and are confined thereto, e.g. many tumours throughout their course; possibly some cancers in an early stage ; simple, slight injuries, and the operations for their repair. 6. Local disease with constitutional disturbance ;—extreme pain, produces great exhaustion, shivering, disturbance of the nervous system, and destruction of some part of the blood; moreover, fluids which have undergone change, and germinal or cell matter developed in a diseased part, may be received into the blood, and produce sym- pathetic fever. c. Disease occasioned by distant nervous disturbance; as, for example, * The doctrines of John Hunter, and the English school down to Paget; and of the Vienna and Edinburgh schools, Eokitansky, Hughes Bennett, Lebert. t Dr. Lionel S. Beale. See an abstract of his Lectures delivered at the Royal College of Physicians in 1861, Medical Times and Gazette, 1861, vol. 1. Also Beale's Archives, British Medical Journal, &c., passim.