822 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 42. Fulvis e quaiuor Salibus, or " German Fovcder." R. Sodii chloridi, sodse sulphatis, magnesiao sulphatis, potassae sul- phatis, singulorum partes sequales. Optim e misceantur, et desiccentur ante ignem. Dosis gj.—ij., ex oyatho aquae caiidse. An agreeable saline aperient. A grain of sulphate of iron or quinine may be added to each dose, with sugar or ginger, if agreeable. Some of the author's patients have named it German Ponder from its resemblance to the water of chalybeate aperient springs. 43. Hospital House Physic. R. Magnesise sulphatis ^ij. ; pulveris rhei, jalapse aa 3j.; aquse men- thse piperitai ',^vij. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta. 45. Castor Oil Mixture. There is nothing offensive in the taste of castor oil, but it is indi- gestible and creates unpleasant eructations. People of sense take it floated in a little brandy, or in an acid effervescing draught. They who want it disguised may adopt the following draught, the pi'oportions of which we copy from Parrish. R, Pulveris gummi acacise, sacchari albi, singulorum 3iij.; olei menthse piperitse guttas quatuor ; olei ricini f^j. Rub the gum, sugar, and mint into a powder ; add about 3vj. of water, then the castor oil by degrees, with a little more gum or a little more water as may be necessary to make a perfect emulsion. Tlien add water slowly to bring the quantity to ^iv. Dose ^ss.— Castor Oil and Turpentine Mixture. Substitute half an ounce of oil of turpentine, for half of the castor oil in the above. 46. Aperient Electuaries. Pulveris potassae supertartratis ^ss.; sulphuris precipitati 3ij.—iv. ; confectionis sennse ^.; syrupi zinziberis, quantum satis sit. 1^. Magnesias ustae, potassse supertartratis, pulveiis rhei, aa 3j.; pulveris zinziberis 3ss.; theriacas, quantum satis est. R. Mannae, confectionis sennse, aa ^.; sulphuris 3iij.; syrupi quan- tum satis sit. Dosis 3j.—iv., omni nocte hoia somni. For piles, ^c. 47. Pilules Cathartica;. R. Aloes ^ss.; pulveris colocynthidis, cambogiae aa 3j.; jalapae 3ij.; saponis 3j,; antimonii tartarizati ^ss. ; olei caryophillorum nr\^xx.; contuude simul, et divide in pilulas, pondere granorum quinque. A thorough but easy purge.