OVARIOTOMY. 535 Once in existence, three courses are open to this disease. 1. It may subside after tapping, or after accidental rupture of the cyst into the peritonasal cavity. The latter event, however, has proved fatal thi ough peritonitis in most of the instances in which it has been noticed. In some cases relief, more or less great, has followed the ulceration of the tumour, and the discharge of its contents through the navel or into some part of the bowels. But each of these cases is rare. 2. The disease, although incurable, may lemain stationary, the system become habituated to it, and life go on almost as though the burden existed not. The writer in former editions mentioned the case of a lady, aged about 60, of tall commanding figure, in whom an ovarian tumour, of immense size, has existed for more than thirty years. Her health had been for years pretty good, although when the disease first made its appearance, before the diagnosis was fully made out, she suffei-ed for three years from all the remedies that the physicians of George the Fourth's time could devise for the dispersion of the swell- ing. Since the last edition she died of suppuration of the cyst. 3. But unhappily such cases as these are the exceptions. In by far the greater number the tumour continues to increase; fills up the abdomen ; interferes with the breathing ; makes the patient's existence a misery ; and at last wears her out from pain and irritation, and especially from vomiting, which seems to set in when the tumour has reached its climax. Or the tumour may undergo degeneration and suppurate; and shiverings, hectic, and perspirations indicate absorption of noxious matter. Haemorrhage from the utei'us is of frequent occur- rence in the advanced stages, and so far as the writer has observed, it should not be interfered with, unless very profuse. The fatal issue will be, of course, much quicker if the malady is of a cancerous nature ; in which case, instead of remaining free and unattached in the peritonseal cavity, or even instead of being bound down by more or less numerous bands of adhesion, the tumour becomes amalgamated with the abdominal wall, with the liver, and with other visceia, and communicates a can- cerous infiltration to every part that it adheres to. The question then is, what can our art do to cui'e the patient, or to mitigate her sufferings; and there are three things that lequire mention, viz., Istly, tapping ; 2ndly, various medical and surgical measures adopted in the hope of producing atrophy of the tumour; and, 3rdly, extirpation, or ovariotomy. 1. Tapping.—This is the simplest mode of procuring relief; and in some few cases the tumour, emptied by this means, continues quiescent for years or for life. But far more commonly the operation r equires to be soon repeated. Cases aie extant, in one of which the patient lived to be tapped 06 times at intervals of about a month ; and, in another, 128 times at intervals of six weeks ; but taken as a general rule, it may be affirmed that few patients survive more than four years after the first tapping. After the first operation, the patient feels quite well ; but the riuid collects, say in six months. Then follows a second tap- ping; the patient remains pretty well for four months. Then a third,