TREFACE. XV sible to decant into these pages all the working details that are familiar to Charles Hawkins or Henry Thompson. The chapter on the Surgery of the Female Generative Organs is also confessedly imperfect, and contains such points only as belong to ''General Surgery/' without making it distinctly obstetrical. It had been my intention to have written a complete chapter on the examination, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases of those organs; but after encountering the drudgery of the foregoing 650 pages, I shrank from the labour. Besides, the additions judged necessary to the other parts of the book rendered it difficult to add much to this. The chapters on Chloroform and on Operative Surgery have also been revised and much added to. I wish I could even barely count up the improvements in the operative parts of Surgery begun or perfected in the last twenty-five years :—such as the merciful sleep under chloro- form contrasted with the groans of yore: the more finished style of operating, which, though London never wanted good operators, was greatly promoted by Listen and W. Fergusson : the new mode of division by the ecraseur : lithotrity and ovariotomy, once sneered at, now perfected: the mechanical details worked out for the union of cleft palate and of vaginal fistulas: the bolder treatment of diseased joii:its by incision, with excision to fall back upon, instead of amputation : the more summary modes of dealing with stricture : the whole treatment of deformities worked into a scientific system : and withal the causes of death after operations better understood and guarded against. For many years past my practice has been confined to medicine and midwifery. I have therefore had the greatest part of this edition, as of former ones, and especially all parts that relate to pure or operative surgery, submitted to the revision of an accomplished hospital surgeon, so as to relieve myself from responsibility, and increase the confidence of my readers. The great kindness with which former editions have been received has made me the more anxious that this should not fall behind its predecessors; yet I am painfully conscious of its imperfections—even of those which arise from the narrow limits in which I am obliged to write. Surgery can now be condensed within no small space, and at best this work can but pretend to be a series of memoranda, sufiicient perhaps for most maladies which fall