THE GLANDERS. 186 extends over the scalp, and closes the eyes. Then the characteristic features of the disease appear;—an offensive, viscid, yellowish dis- charge, streaked with blood, issues from the nostrils ; and a crop of large and remarkably hard pustules (compared by some to those of the small-pox, and said by others to be about the size of a pea) appears on the face. In the meanwhile the swelling and inflammation increase ;—a portion of the nose or eyelids mortifies ;—the discharge becomes more and more profuse and offensive;—the pustules spread, and extend over the neck and body; fresh abscesses form and suppu- rate ; the thirst is most excruciating; and low murmuring delirium and tremors usher in death—much to be wished for. (2.) The chronic glanders is characterised by a viscid and pecu- liarly foetid discharge from one nostril, with pain and swelling of the nose and eyes;—and emaciation, profuse perspiration, and abscesses near the joints, from which the patient slowly sinks. (3,) In the acute farcy, the patient receives the poison through a wound or abrasion, which inflames violently, together with the lym- phatics leading from it. The symptoms are attended with consider- able fever, and are generally soon followed by the diffused abscesses, pustular eruption, and nasal discharge, that characterise acute glanders. (4.) In the chronic farcy, a wound poisoned by glanderous matter degenerates into a foul ulcer; the lymphatic vessels and glands swell and suppurate ; abscesses form in difierent parts of the body ; and if the disease is not cured, or does not destroy the patient first, it termi- nates in acute glanders.* Causes.—In the horse this disease may, without doubt, arise spon- taneousl}', when the animal is subjected to the usual influences that generate putrid poisons ;—namely, insufficient and unwholesome food, close confinement, and fll ventilation, especially on board ship. Mr. Youatt believes that it may arise, if the animal is kept in a poor state of health, as the climax of constitutional weakness and derange- ment. In man, it is generally produced through inoculation of the matter into a wound ; and the matter from the abscesses or nasal cavities of human beings is capable of communicating the disease both to men and animals. A man died of glanders in St. Bartholomew's Hospital,'in 1840, and the nurse who attended him inoculated her hand, and died of it also in a very few days; and two kittens which were inoculated from the nurse, became affected likewise. Moreover, the blood of a glandei-ed horse injected into the veins of a healthy one communicated the disease, although no abnormal appearance could be detected in it by the microscope.f The time at which the disease appears after inoculation varies from three days to a mouth. Prognosis.—This, in the acute disease,is highly unfavourable; the chronic, however, may be recovered from. * Case of Mr. Turner, Travers, Constitutional Irritation, p. 399; Case of Farcy ending in Acute Glanders in seven montlis, L'Exp^rience, Jan. 1839. f Reynault, quoted in Provincial Medical Journal, 18th Feb. 1843, from the Report of the French Academy for Feb. 2, 1843.