74 INDOLENT ULCER. sphere; as in the plan of Mr. Stafford, who recommends old, deep, in- dolent ulcers to be treated by filling up their cavity with a mixture of one part of Venice turpentine, and four of bees'-wax, melted, and poured in warm. Mr. Syme covers an indolent ulcer with a blister. M. Malgaigne is said to use in some cases a warm ii'on held at a little distance from the ulcer, so as to dry its surface. Heated air, ov fiimigation with vapour of suiphuret of mercury, or of iodine with sulphur, has been used by Mr. G. A. Wallver and others. The affected limb is put into a tin case, or large jar, provided with a heated iron at tlie bottom, and with a grating above this, to prevent the patient from being burnt. On the heated iron there is to be sprinliled, just before the patient's limb is subjected to the treatment, a powder composed of thirty grains of sul- phur, six of cinnabar, and two of iodine ; and the top of the apparatus should be covered with a thick cloth, to prevent the vapour from escaping. The limb may be thus fumicrated for fifteen minutes every day, and the quantity of iodine gradually increased fourfold. Mr. Gay has called attention to the fact that cicatiization proceeds only from the cutis vera, and, consequently, from the edges of an ulcer ; that there appears to be great difficulty in cicatrizing a wide surface ; and that nature causes the skin to contract, so as to cover the vacancy, in preference to forming a large cicatrix ;—and that the healing of many ulcers is delayed because the surrounding skin cannot contract; either through adhesions which bind it down to the subjacent parts, or through extensive loss of skin, or from the fact that the sore is situated on a projecting part, as the ankle. Hence he proposes, in some cases, to liberate the edges of the sore by incisions parallel to, and at a little distance from them ; or to excise the edges and surface of the ulcer, when firmly bound down by hardened tissue. Should old ulcers be healed?—The propriety of healing old ulcers has ot'ten been made a question, inasmuch as certain diseases, and especially apoplexy, palsy, and mania have been said to come on after- wards. Sir E. Home specified the following cases in which a cure ought not to be attempted. 1. If the ulcer be "evidently affected with the gout, having regular attacks of pain, i-eturning at stated periods; and those attacks similar to what the patient has experienced from gout in other parts." 2. If an ulcer habitually occur whenever the constitution is disordered. 3. If the patient be very infirm and old ; for under these circumstances the removal of an habitual source of irritation, or the diversion of an habitual afflux of blood may prove fatal; more especially as very old ulcers have been known to heal spon- taneously a short time before death. To these cases must be added that of ulcers on the legs of stout women, about the critical time of life, and displaying a tendency to discharge copiously as the periodic uterine flux diminishes. On this point we may observe, 1, that in the case of every habitual ulcer, purgatives should be freely used during the cure, and for some time after it. 2. That if, spite of this, there be symptoms of conges- tion in the head, an issue or a seton in a convenient situation may