TREATMENT OF CONSTITUTIOXAL SYPHILIS. 219 answer best as local applications, without reference to any constitu- tional effect. For the loss of hair, a pomade containing a very small proportion of ung. hyd. nitr. scented ;—and the roots of the hair should be well cleansed by rubbing with a bit of soft flannel dipped into vinegar. For the common excoriated sore throat, any soothing detergent gargle will do—F. 107, 108. When there are ulcers, it is advisable to use gargles of corrosive sublimate (F. 112); and when the ulcers are indo- lent they may be touched with the liniinentum ceraginis. Mercurial fumigation may be used to the part affected. When a foul ulcer is seated on the velum, or roof of the mouth, or pharynx, or alae nasi, an attempt may be made to check its ravages, by destroying its surface and edges with nitric acid. Ulceration of the larynx is occasionally benefited by similar fumigation, but mercury so as to affect the mouth is almost always injurious; as it is in other cases of rapid ulceration. Sarsaparilla and sedatives, blisters to the throat, and occasional leechings, swabbing with solution of arg. nit., and the operation of tracheotomy, if the breathing becomes much embarrassed, are the necessary measures. Mucous tubercles about the genitals should be washed with solution of chloride of soda, and then be sprinkled with diy calomel. The pain of nodes is often relieved by blisters, and so are rheumatic pains of venereal origin. Acute inflammation of the periosteum or peri- cranium is best treated by iodide of potassium, in doses of three grains every four hours, and Dover's powder; the use of mercury requires the greatest caution, and is only admissible if the patient has a sound con- stitution, and has never taken a course of it. It is peculiarly noxious when there is caries of the bones of the nose. When nodes are very tense and full of fluid, it may be necessary to puncture them, but it is better to adopt Mr. W. Fergusson's plan of subcutaneous incision, instead of direct puncture. If during secondary syphilis, the nose becomes tender or painful, the greatest benefit will be derived from the application of one or two leeches twice or three times a week to the inside of the affected nostril. At the same time the patient should take plenty of sarsaparilla, with iodide of potassium, and should have the benefit of country air, and a nutritious diet. By these means, any further mischief will sometimes be averted. If, however, ulceration does occur, it is of the utmost consequence to remove any loose or carious portions of bone as soon as possible. The practitioner who treats obstinate tertiary symptoms has need of some knowledge of cookery. We particularly commend various soups, taken as medicines in large quantities : their effects are soon evident on the skin and kidneys. Whey; diet drinks with hartshorn shavings; isinglass, &c.; sweet wort, good stout; &c. (F. 85, 196, &c.) Lastly, whenever a case is doing badly, and irritable inflammation or ulcera- tion spreading, in defiance of ordinary remedies, the surgeon should cinchonize the patient; that is, give five grains of quinine every four hours till the ears ring, F. 3.