ELEPHANTIASIS. 664 leaving the fissures known as cleft-palate and hare-lip, so the cor- responding parts of the sacral series, if ill developed, leave fissure, ill that region. 1. The pubic bones may be imperfect at the sym- physis, leaving a gap, completed by ligament. 2. The two sides of the penis may be separated—which the surgeon may attempt to unite, but will haidly succeed. 3. There may be complete absence of the anterior wall of the bladder, the abdominal wall, the pubic symphysis, and of the upper surface of the penis. This is a horrid case: there is a deep gap at the lower part of the abdomen, from which the red mucous membrane of the bladder protrudes, and the urine is in- cessantly dribbling. 'J'he testicles and scrotum may be well developed. The surgeon may content himself with mechanical appliances for palliating the patient's inconveniences; or he may attempt, if he thinks it prudent, a radical cure, such as that which Mr. Simon devised and executed. This consists in first establishing a fistulous passage from the imperfect bladder into the rectum, and then in closing the edges of the fissure. The results of the operation were not proportionate to the ingenuity and skill evidenced in its invention and execution, as the patients eventually died.* Mr. Wood has recently operated on two of these cases with complete success. This surgeon does not attempt to open the bladder into the rectum, but closes the gap in the abdominal wall by transplantation from the groin and scrotum, leaving a small opening above the imperfect penis to act as an urethra, to which an india-rubber bottle can be fixed. Mr. Holmes, of St. George' Hospital, has also succeeded in a like operation in two cases out of four. VI. Hypospadias is a deficiency of the parts constituting the under surface of the urethra. It is very common indeed for the last half inch or inch of the urethra to be impervious, there being an orifice about the situation of the frjjenum ; but this requii es no treatment. If the gap is so extensive as to interfere with the proper use of the genitals, it may be attempted to be relieved by paring the edges of the skin on each side of the fissure, and uniting it by suture, provided that the urethra is pervious to the end of the penis. An American surgeon has proposed to unite the edges of the fissure by cauterizing them with nitrate of silver, and then scraping off the black eschar; by,which means the surfaces are made raw without hemorrhage or loss of substance. VII. Elephantiasis.—The natives of India are liable to this dis- ease in the areolar tissue of the penis and scrotum, which parts become completely buried in the enormous tumours which are developed, and which may weigh possibly 601b. to 1801b., hanging down to the patient's knees, or even to the ankles. (See p. 683.) The malady generally begins in tlie prepuce, from which it spreads and involves the areolar tissue of the scrotum. The skin is wrinkled, and there is a kind of aperture from which the urine escapes. The * Mr. Simon's case, Lancet, 1852, voL ii., p. 568; case by Mr. Lloyd, Lancet, 1851, voL ii.,p. 370.