34 INFLAMMATION. position to the fluids of wounds ; zymotic poisons so-called, which re- produce in the Jiving body a fresh crop of living matter containing the same poisons; the transplantation of epithelial cells undergoing change, as in gonorrhoea, &c.; lastly, amongst local causes of inflam- mation may be mentioned original mal-development. Thus the ill- grown bi ains of rachitic children are liable to hydrocephalus, &c. 2. Altered innervation as a cause of inflammation. This is a very obscure subject, and not yet half worked out. It is commonly stated in books that division of nerves will in some instances produce inflam- mation, or some other destructive change in the part supplied by those nerves. But it is clear that division of spinal nerves, or paralysis of sense or motion per se, has no necessary effect in inducing inflam- mation. Wounds of paralyzed parts heal as other wounds do. Most inflammations of paialyzed parts are consequences of injuries, not of mere paralysis; for instance, a palsied eye is unconscious of the presence of foreign particles, and cannot cleanse itself. But (1.) division or paralysis of vaso-motor nerves causes relaxation of the capillaries and profuse circulation of arterial blood. Thus if the cervico-cephalic branch of the sympathetic have been divided, the ear and side of tlie face become hot, red, and vascular. Then, says Claude Bernard, if the animal be starved, inflammation is set up, the con- junctiva and pituitary membrane run into suppuration. The blood being defective, absorbs greedily from the organs it traverses. (2.) Some injuries produce reflex irritation of the nerves which ci eate afflux of blood. This has been given by Brown Sequard as the cause of that ulcei-ation of the duodenum which follows burns. (3.) Lastly, there are some nerves which if irritated contract the capillaries and cut ofl' the supply of blood, and thus may cause gangrene. 3. Constitutional causes.—The blood may be too abundant, per se, or overcharged with material prone to decomposition. Then if the action of the excreting glands be checked, the impurities of the blood seem to fly to some organ and excite inflammation. Or it may be deficient in quantity and quality. For one inflammation that arises from exuberance of blood, there are in the author's experience fifty which arise from poverty. It may be poisoned. Every poison that can be admitted into the blood seems to have some favourite organ which it vexes, and through which it is eliminated; mercury, the bowels and mouth ; aloes, the rectum ; savin, the womb; iodine, the air passages; turpentine, the kidneys, and so forth. As every blood-poison has its special seat for action, so more particularly have those of zymotic and organic origin, as the poisons of small-pox, scarlatina, syphilis, and the like. There are many blood-poisons which have never been isolated, but whose existence is inferred from the constancy of their effects, as the poisons of syphilis, &c. The most frequent class of blood-poisons are those which arise from imperfect assimilation, or from secondary changes in ill-assimilated blood, or fi-om defective excretion by a hidebound skin or diseased kidneys ; hence gout and its allied disorders ; hence the serous inflammations in