353 tually. Mr. Fergusson sometimes passes a needle under a small nffivus, and twists a thread over it, so as to cause considerable pressure, allowing it to remain for forty-eight hours or longer, after the manner used for the reUef of varicose veins. Congelation, after Dr. James Arnott's method, will sometimes check the growth of a nasvus. The injection of an astringent fluid, by means of Anel's syringe, was pro- posed some time since, and a solution of sulphate of zinc, so employed, caused the patient's death by convulsions. The obvious conditions necessary for the safety of this plan are—that the liquid employed shall not be poisonous in itself; that it shall be capable of at once curdling the blood, so that there may be no chance of its being diffused through the circulation ; and that it shall not cause abscess or render the clot incapable of being afterwards absorbed with safety. The neutral solution of perchloride of iron, recommended by Pravaz, may be employed; but experiments are wanting to decide upon the substance most suitable. Probably a solution of matico or some astringent vege- table might answer. Mr. Haynes Walton has used a solution of tannin with success in a case of najvus of the orbit. The solution of perchlo- ride of iron has been used with success by Mr. W. Adams in a case of traumatic aneurysm ; and Dr. Brainard, of Illinois, has published a case in which, after ligature of the common carotid had failed, he pro- duced a cure of a rapidly-increasing navus of the orbit by injecting a solution of 8 grains of lactate of ii'ou in a fluid drachm of water. Vac- cination has also been used for this disease; but it requires that the whole surface of the tumour and some of the skin around should be inoculated, so as to cover it with a confluent vesicle, which excites great fever ; and the opportunity of doing so must be rare. A very small nsevus may also be destroyed by touching it with a glass pen dipped in nitric acid: this is also a good method of removing little red spots on the face, formed by a distended vessel with radiating branches ; but immediately after applying the acid, the part should be sponged with a solution of carbonate of soda, to prevent too wide a destruction of the skin, and consequent scar. The tumour composed of dilated veins is best treated by subcuta- neous incision, so as to divide it in several places, and by continued bandaging. If small, and not growing, it should not be meddled with. Extirpation of these tumours by the knife is advisable only when they are of the cutaneous variety, or when they can be lifted up from the parts beneath, so that their whole extent can be ascertained. Two elliptical incisions should be made, to include the whole of the diseased growth, and a little of the sound tissues around. For, to use Mr. Guthrie's words, " it cannot be too forcibly impressed on the mind of the surgeon, that if the diseased part be cut into, the bleeding will be terrific and difficult to stop." But it is generally considered that the ligature is the safest and best method. With this proviso, that skin should not be included in a liga- ture and allowed to ulcerate ; but that it should either be dissected back D 2 A