12 HYSTERIA AND HYPOCHONDRIASIS. the seat of pleurisy ; sometimes pain and tenderness of the abdomen. Now although the patient may describe the sensations of pleurisy or peritonitis, and A-ery likely may feel them, yet positive pliysical signs are absent, and many, symptoms may be elicited by art which are quite incompatible with the existence of serious organic disease. Thus the patient with hysterically simulated laryngitis, though breathing fast and noisily, if she speak, may speak without hoarseness, and will not dis- play in the face the signs of approaching asphyxia. A patient with hysterical pleurisy will expand the ribs freely; and in hysterical peri- tonitis, as in other hysterical diseases, the patient flinches from a slight touch, and yet, if her attention be engaged, will bear firm pressure without complaint. In the same manner, any one of the limbs or joints may be affected with pain, tenderness, and spasm, as if one of the joints were diseased ; or there may be pain in the spine, with great sensitiveness of some par- ticular vertebra, tympanites of the belly, and difficulty of making water, or irritation along the nerves corresponding to the vertebra affected ; a condition known as spinal irritation. As we are not writing a treatise on Hysteria, but merely giving some hints on the possible diliiculty of diagnosis arising from its presence, we will only remark, in addition to the exaggeration of the sensational symptoms, and the absence of physical signs, that the practitioner should notice the hysterical ])hysiognomy, and consider whether the duration of the symptoms accords with that of known diseases. There are two mental conditions generally found in hysteria, although they are not peculiar to it, but belong rather to invalidism in general. One is a tendency to imitation, in which the patient believes that he or she is afflicted with any disease whatever which may strike his imagina- tion, or which he chances to hear of, or which is the subject of general conversation. The other is a diseased egotism, which makes the patient delight in being ill, so as it secures the undivided attention and sym- pathy of those about her. This is at the bottom of those marvellous and otherwise unaccountable tricks which hysteric patients resort to in feigning disease. Treatment.—Our limits do not allow us to do more than glance at this part of a very large subject; but we may observe—■ 1st. That there are no drugs which are specifics for hysteria, but that every case must be treated on its own merits. The state of the digestive organs, of the colon, of the urine, and uterine function ; of the blood, whether impoverished or not; and of the mind, must all be re- garded. Aperients, good diet, and, above all, change of residence, and warm aromatic medicines, especially valerian, are the measures most likely to do good. 2ndly. That all heroic measures, leeches, blisters, issues, setons, examinations with the speculum, and other things justifiable in cases of true organic disease, do infinite harm in hysteria. 3rdly. That warm soothing liniments, as F. 148, &c., are the best local applications.