404 PURULENT OPHTHALMIA. laries must be unloaded by occasional leechings, and be excited to contract by stimulants and astringents, such as the various collyria in F. 140, &c., which should be used with an eye-cup; or the vinum opii (which Mr. Walton dilutes with an equal quantity of water), and of which a few drops may be put into the eye daily. The edges of the eyelids should be smeared every night with weak ung. hydr. nit. ; and blisters should be applied behind the ears, if the case is obstinate. III. Purulent Ophthalmia, or purulent conjunctivitis, is a very violent form of inflammation of the conjunctiva, and is attended with a thick purulent discharge, which supervenes in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the commencement of the disease. There are three varieties of it:—1, the purulent ophthalmia of children ; 2, the common purulent ophthalmia of adults; and 3, the gonorrhceal ophthalmia. The Purulent Ophthalmia of Children, or ophthalmia neona- torum, always begins to appear a few days after birth ; generally on the third day. Symptoms.—At first the edges of the lids appear red, and glued together; their internal surface is red and villous, and the eye is kept closed. Then the conjunctiva of the globe becomes intensely scarlet and much swelled, sometimes so much so as to cause eversiou of the lids; it secretes a thick purulent discharge, and the child is very restless and feverish. If neglected, this disease may occasion opacity or ulceration, or perhaps sloughing of the cornea ; but it generally yields to early and proper treatment. Yet sometimes the interior of the eye is very much damaged, and the retina is left very feeble. Causes.—In most instances in which the author has seen this disease, the mother has complained of some amount of discharge during her pregnancy. In some well-marked cases the husband has also had gleet; therefore it is not unfair to infer that this ophthalmia is caused by the contact of vaginal secretion during birth. Possibly irritation of the eyes from neglect of cleanliness may be a cause in other cases. Treattnent.—This disease, if submitted to early treatment, is easily cured by great attention to cleanliness, and by incessantly washing away the discharge with some mild astringent lotion. Either of the weak collyria (F. 117) will answer; and a large drop of a solution of one grain of nitrate of silver to an ounce of distilled water may likewise be put between the lids once a day with a camel's-hair pencil. The practice pursued at the Central London Ophthalmic Hospital, is to wipe away from the eye with a soft rag and warm water as much discharge as possible, then to apply with a syringe a lotion of four grains of alum to an ounce of water ; after that, the edges of the lids are smeared with lard to prevent them from sticking together, and these proceedings are repeated every half-hour. Neither blistering nor leeching is resorted to. When the discharge is on the wane, the lids may be smeared at night with weak citrine ointment. The eye should be opened with very 2;reat delicacy by resting the fingers on the edges of the orbit, and then drawing open the lids in such a way as to avoid any pressure on the