POLYPUS OF THE EPIGLOTTIS, ETC. 517 5. Cases that simulate Laryngeal Disease.—Some yeai's since, the medical journals made themselves merry at the expense of the house- surgeon to one of the largest hospitals in London, who, being summoned in the night to a patient apparently dying of dyspnoea, immediately performed tracheotomy, but without avail ; for the man expired very soon afterwards; and on a post-mortem examination it was found that there was nothing the matter with the larynx, but that a large aneurism existed on the arch of the aorta. What was the use, it was said, of cutting the throat of a man who was dying of aneurism ? The house-surgeon, however, was not to blame, because, as is now very well known, tumours about the aortic arch may produce spasm of the glottis, by interfering with the recurrent nerves. But now that this fact is known, every surgeon should carefully scrutinise the chest in obscure cases of dyspnoea, to see whether it arise from this cause. No permanent good can then result from tracheotomy; yet the author heard of a case lately, at the Winchester Hospital, in which it certainly rescued a patient from immediate death, although he died shortly after- wards from other effects of the aneurism. But the operation is not admissible in that spasm of the glottis which often alfects children during teething; nor yet in cases in which the symptoms of laryngitis are mimicked by hysteria.* The laryngoscope will show the absence of disease of the larynx. IV. Polypus of the Epiglottis, Larynx, and Trachea.— Professor Ehrman of Strasbourg collected the histories of thirty-one cases of polypus in these parts of the human subject, three in the cow, and two in the horse, in an interesting monograph. The early symp- toms are hoarseness, and perhaps loss of voice, especially if the tumour be situated near the chordae vocales ; cough of a croupy, suffocative character ; sense of obstruction in breathing, speaking, or swallowing; dyspnoea, gradually increasing with the growth of the tumour, next coming in terrific fits of sufi'ocation, at last fatal: when the tumour, if within the trachea, is driven up between the chordae vocales by ex piration ; or if attached to the epiglottis, is drawn down by inspira- tion. The most distinctive symptom is a valvular flapping sound heard or felt when the tumour moves during respiration. In more than one case the tumour, or a portion of it, has been torn off and coughed up : this of course decides the diagnosis. In a case by Mr. Stallard, the tumour was detached within the trachea, and the patient died suffocated. Polypi here, as elsewhere, are usually fibro-cellular, fibro-plastic, or epithelial. The laryngoscope here substitutes sight for faith. Instead of inferring that a tumour probably exists, the surgeon may see that it does.f * Coxeter's Laryngeal Syringe, for introducing a few drops of caustic solution into the larynx, is a good substitute for the pencil. t Histoire des Polypes des Larynx. Strasburgh, 1850; Case by Mr. Stallard, Med. Gaz,, 19th May, 1843. There is a preparation of it in the King's College Museum from Mr. Mayo's collection. Lr. Gibb has collected a list of thirty other preparations in museums, of laryngeal growths and excrescences. On Throat and Windpipe, 2nd edition.