DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 505 follows:—The patient sits upright, with the head thrown as far back as possible, and the mouth wide open. The bougie, which should be previously warmed in the hand and oiled, and gently curved, is passed down into the pharynx in such a manner that its point may slide along the vertebrae. In order that it may not excite cough by interfering with the epiglottis, the patient should be directed to protrude the tongue from the mouth as far as possible ; or to perform the act of deglutition just when the bougie is entering the pharynx. If it meets with an obstruction in its descent, the surgeon should slightly withdraw it, then again press it gently against the obstruction, increasing the pressure for a few minutes if it gives no pain. If it fail to pass, a smaller one should be tried. V. Ulceration.—" Simple but fatal ulceration," as Mayo correctly called it; that is to say, phagedcenic or corroding ulceration, without the pre-existence of epithelioma or of cancer (compare pp. 80, 113), is liable to affect the pharynx at the level of the cricoid cartilage, or the oesophagus lower down. If the finger or a bougie is passed, its point returns marked with bloody pus. The consequences are always the same ;—exhaustion from the irritation of the disease, and from the inability to swallow; or possibly a more speedy death from perforation of the aorta or of the pleura. VI. Epithelioma and Cancer also sometimes affect this part. The symptoms are alike : burning pain between the scapulae ; and dif- ficulty of swallowing. Treatment.—A deposit of hard cancer into the walls of the (eso- phagus will at first be scarcely distinguishable from stricture, and must be treated like it; but when burning pain indicates ulceration, then nutrient enemata, belladonna plasters to the back, opium, ice-cream, &c., should be used to relieve the pain; and a very careful diet, in- cluding eggs, meat beat to a pulp, and other nutriment of small bulk. VII. Tumours pressing on the oesophagus, whether abscesses, polypi, aneurisms, bronchocele, or enlargement of the bronchial lym- phatic glands, will produce all the symptoms of organic stricture. Aneurisms and abscesses have been burst by the passage of bougies—■ with, of course, instant death in the former case, and relief in the latter. Before performing this operation, therefore, the chest ought to be well scrutinized by auscultation, to detect any unnatural pulsation or hruit; and any signs of embarrassed circulation or respiration should not be overlooked. Polypus.—Cases are recorded of polypous tumours projecting into the pharynx or oesophagus.* VIII. Foreign Bodies, when fixed in the pharynx, or about the * Vide Sir E. Home on Strictures, vols. i. and ii.; Monro on the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, &c.; Brodie on Local Nervous Affections {spasmodic stricture)'^ Mayo's Pathology ; Stokes in Cyclop. Pract. Med., vol. ii.; and Sir C. Bell's Institutes of Surgery, vol. i.; Arrowsmith's case of Polypus in Oeso- phagus, Med. Gaz., N. S., p. 165. There is a case of congenital imperforate CEsophagus in the Musee Dupuytren, at Paris ; it was continuous with the trachea.