HECTIC OR SUPPURATIVE FEVER. 56 At this point, we can meet with no large blood-vessel. . . . Then I push a giooved probe, or grooved director upwards into the swelling in the axilla ; and if you watch the groove, a little opaque serum or pus will show itself. Take a blunt (not a sharp) instrument, such as a pair of dressing-forceps, and run the closed blades along the groove in the probe or director into the swelling. Now opening the handles, you at the same time open the blades situated within the abscess, and so tear open the abscess. Lastly, by keeping open the blades of the forceps during the withdrawal of the instrument, you leave a lacerated track or canal communicating with the collection of pus, which will not readily unite, and will permit the easy exit of matter," Mr. Hilton gives instances of the same method successfully employed in a deep abscess of the orbit, after fractured base of skull;—in deep cervical abscess ; post- pharyngeal abscess with disease of cervical vertebrje ; in abscess under the iliacus internus descending behind the femoral vessels into the thigh ; and in deep abscess under the glutei. He has done it over and over again in abscesses formed upon or under the periosteum in the thigh. He often sees, he says, after dividing the fascia lata, the healthy muscles stand up boldly and clearly in the wound; and, instead of cut- ting thronuh tlieni, he runs his director right through them into the collection of matter, and then dilates the wound with the dressing-for- ceps. He advises the same course also in abscess on the interosseous membrane of the forearm.* Absorption of Pris.—It occasionally happens that acute abscesses are cured bv the absoi ption of their pus. This is likely to happen when, after acute inflammation, the matter remains without tending to come to the surface, and without pain: the means best adapted to promote it are moderate pressure, purgatives, and tonics. Bv these means, in fortunate instances, the liquor puris may be ab- sorbed, the pus corpuscles undergo degeneration and disintegration, and after remaining for some time as a fatty or cheesy mass, may pass again, in a molecular form, into the blood-vessels. SECTION III.—HECTIC OR SUPPURATIVE FEVER. Definition,—Hectic (a Greek word signifying habitual) fever is a remittent fever, marked by daily paroxysms. It depends on a disordered state of the blood, whether from obstinate malassimilation, or from severe local disease with suppuration. Symptoms.—The patient generally displays great loss of flesh and strength, the skin is muddy, and the eyes hollow. Usually every afternoon or evening he has a tit of shivering, more or less severe, followed by heat and thirst, which render the early part of the night restless; then sleep and profuse sour perspiration come on. The tono-ue is red, and there is a marked tendency to diarrhoea. The pulse above 80 and soft. * On the Influence of Mechanical and Physiological Rest in the Treatment of Accidents and Diseases. By John Hilton, F.R.S., &c., p, 121. Lend. 1863.