506 (ESOPHAGOTOMY. aperture of the larynx, or in the oesophagus, produce a sense of choking, and fits of surtbeative cough. This accident, if unrelieved, may prove fatal in two manners. The patient may either be suffocated at once, by spasm of the glottis, or, if the foreign substance remains impacted, it may produce ulceration of the parts, attended with exhausting cough and dyspnoea, and profuse fetid expectoration. Treatment.—The patient should be seated in a chair, with the head thrown back, and the mouth wide open. The surgeon should then in- troduce his finger, and should pass it swiftly into the pharynx, and search the whole of it thoroughly. When the substance is felt, it may perhaps be entangled in the point of the nail, or curved forceps may be guided to it by the finger. Pins and fish-bones are often entan- gled about the velum, or in the folds of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and tongue. If the patient has false teeth, the surgeon should take them out, and thus will pass his finger in another inch; and he should remember the proneness people have to swallow false teeth. If the body has passed into the oesophagus, and it is small and sharp (a fish bone, for instance), it may be got rid of by making the patient swallow a good mouthful of bread. If large and soft (as a lump of meat), it may be pushed down into the stomach with the probang. But large hard bodies, especially if rough and angular (such as pieces of bone or glass, &c-), should be brought up if possible. A pair of long curved forceps, or a piece of whalebone armed with a flat blunt hook, or with a skein of thread, so as to form an infinite number of nooses, are convenient instruments. If the stomach is full, a dose of tartar emetic dissolved in a very small quantity of water may be adminis- tered, in the hope that when the contents of the stomach are vomited, they may bring up the offending substance with them. One case is on record in which a chicken-bone lodging in the oesophagus Avas dissolved by making the patient swallow large quantities of dilute acid. If a foreign body has got into the stomach, the patient should eat plenti- fully of rice, potato, and suet pudding, so that it may pass through shielded by plenty of faeces. If all means fail, however, and the sub- stance can neither be brought up nor down, and if it be lodged in the cervical portion of the tube, it must be extracted by the operation of cesophagotomy in the following manner. IX. (EsoPHAGOTOMY.—Tlie operation should be performed on the side towards which the foreign body projects. Its situation having been ascertained, an incision of sufficient length must be made through the skin and platysma between the sternomastoid muscle and trachea. The cervical fascia must next be divided on a director. The surgeon must then divide the cellular membrane with a blunt knife, or lacerate it with his fingers, avoiding the carotid and thyroid arteries and the recuri-ent nerve. A common silver catheter may then be passed down the throat, and be made to project in the wound, so that the oesophagus may be opened by cutting on it. This small wound in the oesophagus should be dilated with forceps, in order to avoid h.'emorrhage, and the foreign body should then be extracted. This operation has occasionally