FRACTURES OF THE LEG. 287 limb; another to the inner side; and if there is any projection of either fragment, it should be kept in its place by a third slight splint to the shin. The outer splint should have a foot-piece, which should be carefully padded in such a manner as to prevent the foot from turn- ing either inwards or outwards, especially the latter. There is a very useful rule, which should be attended to in all cases of injury below the knee ; it is, to keep the great toe in a line with the inner edge of the patella. (2.) By the Macintyre's leg splint, or some of the numberless varieties of it in existence, as improved by Mr. Liston and other sur- geons. The adjoining cut represents it as applied to a patient of Mr. Fergusson's in the King's College Hospital, with a compound fracture, which is left uncovered by the bandages. It is straightened out by means of the screw under the knee, as Mr. Fergusson prefers the straight position in almost all cases of fracture of the lower extremity. Before its application, it must be made to correspond to the length of the sound limb, and must be well padded. (3.) By the very convenient side-splint of Mr. Fergusson's, de- scribed in a preceding page. Tliis may be applied either on the inner or outer side, according to circumstances. (4.) By iiiQ junks.—This very simple but efficient contrivance con- sists of a piece of old sheeting, with a bundle of reeds rolled together from either end. But it is more easy to comprehend it from seeing it once than from a page of description. (5.) By the starched or plaster of Paris bandage.—In simple cases of fracture of the leg, the patient may leave his bed at the end of a week, with the fracture supported by the starched apparatus. When this has become dry, the patient may get up, and move to his chair or sofa with crutches, but the foot must be suspended from his neck by a sling; and he must be particularly cautioned not to attempt to move it by his own efforts. (6.) In the United States fractures of the leg are usually treated by Dr. Buck's method. This consists, first, in placing on each side of the