778 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. of hasmoiThage, and drawn upwards. The anterior part of the capsular ligament being laid bare was easily divided ; the head of the bone was then partially dislocated by rotating the limb outwards and extending it backwards; the ligamentura teres was at once cut through, and the dislocation of the thigh-bone completed. The knife was then carried through the joint and over the trochanter, and the posterior flap was made. In doing this I took care to have this flap somewhat small and thin, well knowing by experience that a large posterior flap tends by its weight to drag the cut surfaces apart in the progress of healing. As I completed the posterior flap, dry sponges were stuffed into the wound by assistants, and thus all hsemorrhage was at once stopped." Plenty of ligatures securing every bleeding vessel including the femoral vein; sutures and plasters, completed the operation. The patient, a lad of 16, left the hospital in a month. In this case, as in one operated on by Mr. C. G. Guthrie, the entire thigh-bone was removed in order to give the patient a greater chance of security from the return of cancer than would have been given by amputation through the affected bone. In any such case, the sui-geon probably will be able to plan his lines of incision as he pleases ; and the limb can be moved in any direction, to facilitate his proceedings.. Not so in cases in which there is extensive destruction of soft parts and smashing of the neck of the bone. Here the surgeon must be guided by the direction in which he can secure the best covering of skin.* SECTION III.—AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT. This opei'ation may be substituted for amputation in the lower third of the thigh, in cases in which excision of the knee-joint is impracti- cable. 1. Byrne's operation.—A semicircular incision is made through skin and fascia over the patella; next, the knife is thrust horizontally across immediately behind the joint, and is made to cut a long flap from the calf of the leg; next, the anterior flap being lifted up, the extensor muscles are severed from the upper border of the patella ; the remain- ing soft parts are divided, and the femur sawn through the condyles, immediately above the joint. 2. If circumstances permit it, an anterior flap may be made includ- ing the patella, by a semicircular incision through the tissues in front of the joint, beneath the patella from the posterior part of one condyle of the femur to the other. Then the ligamentum patellae is cut through, the patella lifted with the anterior flap, the joint opened by cutting through the lateral and crucial ligaments; and lastly, a sufficiency of under flap cut from the calf. The interarticular cartilages should always be removed, and the surface of the patella, or femur, if diseased. The popliteal artery should not be wounded above the part at which it * For details of other modes of performing this operation, see Guthrie's Com- mentaries and South's Chelius, vol. ii.