333 WOUNDS OF AKTERIES. When the wound in the skin is not sufficiently gaping to expose the bleeding part, the finger or a bougie should be first passed down as a guide to it, and then it should be laid open by a sufficiently long inci- sion upwards and downwards. But if it is clear that a vessel is wounded by a stab from the remote side of the limb (as if the femoral is pierced by a wound at the bacljof the thigh), a bougie may be passed in, as before, as a guide for the incisions, but the operator may lay the vessel bare at the side where it is most easily accessible.* Aoupressui^e.—Great as are the advantages of the ligature over the searing irons which preceded them, yet it has some disadvantages; and in order to escape these, a process termed acupressure has been pro- posed by the fertile and ingenious mind of Professor Simpson. The disadvantages of the ligature are, 1st, that being composed of porous and decomposable materials, it is liable to become saturated with putrescent matters, and act as a seton of the worst kind; 2ndly, it of necessity causes sloughing, more or less, of the tissues encircled in the knot; 3rdly, it is sometimes most tedious in coming away. It may be remembered that Lord Nelson Avas ill for weeks through a ligature applied after the amputation of his arm, which did not come away. Thus ligatures keep open wounds for long periods, and render them, whilst open, prone to those states of decomposition which j'esult in low inflammation and pyaemia. Professor Simpson proposes, 1st, to employ metallic instead of textile substances; 2ndly, to use them in such a way as allows them to be removed at will, so soon as the occlusion of the artery is complete, which may be at the end of 48, 60, or 120 hours, according to the size of the vessel. The method of employing simple acupressure is by passing a long needle through one of the flaps of a wound, in such a way that it shall compress the bleeding artery, just, says Professor Simpson, as we do the stalk of a flower when we fasten it into the lapel of our coat with a pin. The engravings show what is meant better than description. Fig. a shows the outer surface of a flap, with the needle passed through it; fig. h shows the mouth of the artery on the wound-surface of the flap, bridged over and compressed. The needle, which must be from 3 to 6 inches Fig. a. Fig. h.