PROLAPSUS ANI. 599 carefully washed, and then be replaced by pressure with the hand. If there is any difficulty in doing so, the forefinger, oiled, should be pushed up into the anus, and it will carry the protruded part with it. If, however, as sometimes happens, a larger portion than usual has come down, and it is so swelled and tender from the constriction of the sphinc- ter, and from being irritated by the clothes, that it cannot be returned, the patient should be put under chloroform, and so reduction be effected; but should the prolapsed portion come down again, the patient must keep in the recumbent posture, and assiduously apply iced water. In other cases, leeches, fomentations, and a dose of calomel and opium may be requisite. To keep the bowel up, it is a good plan, especially in children, to press the nates together with the fore- tinger and thumb, and to carry a bioad strip of adhesive plaster from one side to the other, to be kept on till an evacuation is desired, and then replaced. To cure this affection radically, the bowels should be so regulated as to prevent costiveness and straining; injections of dec. quercus, or of F. 128; sponging with cold water—tonics, especially steel, and support by pads and T bandages, may be used to give tone to the parts. Dr. MacCormac of Dublin recommends that when the stools are passed, the skin near the anus should be drawn to one side with the hand, so as to tighten the orifice. If the prolapsus be combined with piles, that which extirpates them will probably cure it. Otherwise two or three folds of the flabby mucous membrane on the protruded bowel may be pinched up with forceps, and tied tightly with ligatures. 2. Or ligatures may be passed by needles through several folds of skin just at the margin of the anus, which are then to be tied up tightly. Or 3, a small patch of relaxed mucous membrane may be destroyed by acid. Either of these operations may be repeated as often as necessary. Their effect in producing adhesion and consolidation of the relaxed tissue must be obvious. There is a French operation, which consists in excising a portion of the sphincter ani; but when this * This cut, from a preparation in the King's College Museum, shows a sec- tion of a prolapsed rectum—the whole circumference of the lower part of the bowel being everted and extruded. The mucous membrane is excessively thickened from the irritation of exposure.