DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND AKUS. 592 Causes.—The predisposing causes are any circumstances that pro- duce fulness of the abdonainai vessels, or that impede the return of blood from the rectum—such as luxurious and sedentary habits of life —pregnancy, habitual constipation, and disease of the liver. The excit- ing causes may be anything that irritates the lower bowels—particu- larly straining at stool—and violent doses of purgative medicines; among which aloes is blamed more than it deserves to be. Since this medicine is so valuable and in such common use, and yet so little understood, the writer will, for the sake of his younger readers, state briefly what the use of aloes is, and in what its misuse consists. Aloes is what was formerly called eccoprotic; that is, 'an expeller of faeces. When taken into the stomach it is readily dissolved and absorbed, and is eliminated through the colon and rectum, which latter parts it stimulates to unload themselves of their contents; and if they contain faecal matter, which from torpidity they do not expel, aloes is an effectual and unirritating remedy. But if these parts are already active and empty, aloes can but irritate them fruitlessly, caus- ing straining and tenesmus, and also probably piles. Lastly, piles are most frequent in women, and are I'are under puberty. General Treatment.—The grand objects are to remove the predis- posing and exciting causes. The patient, if stout, plethoric, and of sedentary habits, ought to live abstemiously, and take plenty of exer- cise. The bowels should be regulated by some mild aperient, capable of producing daily copious soft evacuation without straining or grip- ing. Senna, sulphur, cream of tartar, and magnesia, in the form of electuaries, F. 46—55, or compound colocynth pill, are frequently used for this purpose ; or pills of rhubarb and soap, w^ith ipecacuanha, taken twice a day, F. 52 ; or a small dose of castor-oil or PuUna water, F. 42, in the morning. It is a good plan to inject the rectum with cold water both before and after the motions. In some cases it is advisable that the patient have his regular daily evacuation at night, just before bedtime, so that the prolapsed and irritated parts may have time to become quiescent during the night. In cases of long standing, in which the mucous lining of the rectum is relaxed, cubebs, or Ward's paste, or the confect. pipei'is. comp,, may be given with great benefit in doses of 5j ter die. In similar cases, especially if the patient is advanced in years, and the piles are attended with a flow of mucus, copaiba may be given in the dose of thirty or forty drops every morn- ing in milk ; and a scruple of common pitch may be taken in pills every night at bedtime. Old people rarely dislike the taste of copaiba. If the piles are inflamed, leeches to the anus, or cupping on the sacrum, a dose of calomel and opium at bedtime, followed by castor- oil in the morning ; low diet, rest in bed, warm hip-baths, fomenta- tions, and poultices. Cold lotions of lead, with a little laudanum, may be substituted for the warm applications, if more comfortable. If there is a tense, bluish, solid tumour, evidently containing coagu- lated blood, it may be punctured ; but perhaps it is better not to do so.