IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. 556 tracted and finally closed, and the neck of the sac oblitei-ated. This cure may perhaps occur in two or three years ; but, as a measure of precaution, the truss should be worn for two or three years more. This is most fre- quently the case with the umbilical and other hernias of infants. But the herniEe of older patients have commonly till of late in this country been considered as admitting of palliative treatment by truss only ; and the patient has been doomed to wear the instrument for the rest of his days. Modern surgery, however, has placed some means of radical cure at our dis- posal, which we shall describe more conveniently under the head of re- ducible inguinal hernia. SECTION III.—IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. Definition.—Hernia is said to be irreducible, simply, when the pro- truded viscera cannot be returned into the abdomen ; although there is no impediment to the passage of their contents, or to their circulation. Causes.—Hernia may be rendered irreducible, 1, by an adhesion of the sac to its contents, or of the latter to each other, or by membranous bands formed across the sac. 2. By enlargement of the omentum or mesentery—whether from simple deposition of fat, or from sarcomatous or other organic change. 3. Omental hernia may be rendered irre- ducible by a contraction of that portion which lies in the neck of the sac, so that it is not stifl' enough to stand against the pressure intended to push it back into the abdomen, but doubles up under it. Consequences.—Irreducible hernia may produce sundry inconve- niences. In the first place, the patient is often liable to dragging pains in the abdomen, or perhaps attacks of vomiting, which come on after food, or when he assumes the erect posture, because the protruded omentum or intestines being fixed, resist all distension or upward move- ment of the stomach. These inconveniences will be gi-eatly aggravated, if the patient increase in corpulency, or become pregnant. Moi-eover, the protruded bowels being deprived of the support naturally aflbrded them by the abdominal muscles, their fgeculent contents are apt to lodge in them, and frequently cause colic or constipation. Lastly, the bowel is greatly exposed to external injury, and inconstant hazard of strangu- lation. Treatment.—This may be either palliative or radical. 1. The palliative treatment consists in applying a hollow bag truss, or else a truss with a hollow pad, or circular India-rubber water pad, that shall