491 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE, author believes the following case will supply a practical hint. He was some time since consulted in a case in which the tongue had protruded largely from the mouth, in consequence of severe salivation. He found that the continuance of the protrusion was owing, first, to the impaired function of the recently-inflamed organ; and, secondly, to some amount of constriction by the teeth ; but gentle pressure easily caused it gradu- ally to return into the mouth. Had it been left to itself it might, to all appearance, have remained protruded for ever. Hence, in all such cases, the surgeon should replace the tongue, as soon as the acutest stage of inflammation has passed, and should not wait for it to go in of itself. Treatment.—Steady compression should be first tried, by compress and bandage. Should this fail, a ^-shaped piece should be removed, by the ecraseur. VI. Ulceration of the tongue presents many varieties. One of the commonest is that which arises from the irritation of decayed teeth, and is usually soon cured by removing the cause, and using aperients and an astringent gargle. A more troublesome sort begins with aphthous spots on the tongue or any other part of the inside of the mouth, which produce excessively irritable and tedious ulcers in suc- cession. Aperients and tonics, and the application of nitrate of silver, or lin. teruginis are the remedies. Secondary and tertiary syphilis are also liable to cause ulcers here ; which are to be recognized by the his tory of the patient, and by the benefit probably derivable from sarsa- parilla with iodide of potassium. VH. Cancer of the tongue usually soon produces a deep excavated ulcer, which will be distinguished from either of the simpler kinds by its having been preceded by nodular enlargement, and by pain and embarrassment in the use of the organ. In the case of the late Bransby Cooper, neuralgia of the right side of the neck and face was the first symptom ; followed by difficulty of swallowing and articula- tion, fetid breath, and loss of flesh. Death occurred from arterial hemorrhage in ten months. There was found a deep excavation at the root of the tongue ; the tissues around, as well as the muscles about the OS hyoides and some adjoining lymphatic glands, infiltrated with cancer. VIII. Epithelioma of the tongue may be scarcely less fatal than cancer, from which it may be difficult to distinguish it except by microscopical examination. A typical case of it occurred in the person of the late Professor John Reid, of St. Andrew's. His age was 39, and health good. In December 184-7, he noticed a small ulcer on the right side of the tongue ; it slowly extended and acquired hard everted edges, but caused little inconvenience. In July 1848, it had attained the size of a five-shilling piece; its surface and edge were ragged, and it caused considerable pain, especially at night. A hard ridge could be felt all round the ulcer, and glands enlarged beneath the jaw. The health, by the end of August, had completely given way from the pain, when the diseased part of the tongue was excised by Mr. Fergusson. In less than a month the wound had healed, and the health was re-