76 PHAGEDENIC ULCER. times there is a constant desquamation of the cuticle, with serous dis- charge, for whicli the best remedies are equal parts of lime-water and! milk, or the ointment of chalk, F. 164, or oxide of zinc, or F. 131, or 188. VIII. The Sloughing Ulcer is formed whenever either of the other varieties of ulcer is attacked with sloughing,—which is particu- larly liable to occur to the indolent^ when subjected to undue irritation. Or, this name may be given to ulcers originally produced by a slough- ing of the skin,—as on the legs of the dropsical. Treatment.—The best applications are warm fomentations of poppy decoction, to which a little spirit has been added ; poultices of yeast or carrots; or the nitric acid or chloride of lime lotion on lint; or the creosote ointment, F. 163, which the author particularly recom- mends. IX. Phagedena is a peculiar variety of ulceration in which copious exudation, and infiltration of the affected part, go hand in hand with rapid decomposition. The surface of the sore is irregular, generally whitish or yellowish ; the discharge serous or bloody, and often extremely pro- fuse ; and the pain extreme. Some cases are attended with fever and acute inflammation, the margin of the sore being highly painful, swelled, and red,—others with atony and debility, the margin being pale, dusky, or livid. Causes.—This disease may be induced either by extraordinary local irritation, or by some peculiar constitutional disorder. It may attack primary or secondary venereal sores, in consequence of filth, intemper- ance, the abuse of mercury, or of a weakened and vitiated, or scrofulous habit, or of some peculiarity in the venereal virus. Sometimes it appears in the throat after scarlatina; it may attack a blistered surface when the constitution has greatly suffered from an acute and exhausting disease, as measles, &c. ; sometimes it affects the mouth or genitals of children, constituting cancrum oris, noma, &c. Treatment.—One of two courses may be taken. The soothing, con- sisting in the administration of opium with bark, wine, and good nourishment, and the local applications directed for irritable ulcers, especially a weak solution of tannin, F. 131. This will often be found successful; if not, recourse may be had to the destruction of the diseased surface by caustics, in the manner described in p. 78. X. Sloughing Phagedena, or Hospital Gangrene, is a state most closely allied to diphtherite, or to the dry rot in timbex-, in which there are rapid propagation and decay of some parasitic growth, and of the tissue which it infests. Its causes are, (1) great local irritation^ combined with a vitiated state of the constitution. (2) Contagion ; that is, the application of poisonous matter to a wound: and (3) infection ; that is, the reception of poisonous miasmata into the blood. We shall first treat of it as it occurs sporadically in civil practice, where it bears the name of sloughing phagedcena: and next, of those more serious visitations that decimate the patients in crowded naval or