661 STONE IN WOMEN. urethra up to the prostate. Then comes into play the peculiar staff of his invention, the blades of the grooved portion of which can be separated in the prostate, so as to stretch the passage and allow the surgeon's left forefinger to be gradually insinuated into the bladder. The in- cisions are limited, the vessels safe, and the operator cannot miss his road nor push his finger in any wrong direction. The writer will say, in conclusion, that the general history of medicine and surgeiyis in favour of such methods as spring from experience, rather than from d priori considerations. III. The Rectovesical Operation consists in cutting into the bladder from the rectum, in the middle line behind the prostate. M. Chassaignac has twice performed a recto-vesical lithotomy in the middle line, by means of the ecraseur* IV. The High Operation is performed by making an incision through the linea alba, and opening the bladder (which is projected upwards on the point of a long catheter) at its fore and upper part, where it is not covered by peritonsBum. This operation may be occa- sionally resorted to when the stone is of great size, and the prostate much enlarged, or the space between the tuberosities of the ischia contracted. SECTION XV.—STONE IN WOMEN. Stone in women is much less frequent than it is in men, and when a renal calculus reaches the bladder, it is much more easily voided. If, however, there be one too large to escape, it must be removed. 1. The surgeon may employ lithotrity. 2. The orifice of the urethra may be simply dilated, which may be effected by Weiss's female dilator, slowly or quickly, as may be desired, 3. Not to mention the plans for cutting into the bladder from the vagina, or other parts, the orifice may be incised. 4. Incision may be combined with dilatation. The great evil is the almost certainty that more or less incontinence of urine will follow. Mr. Fergusson recommends that the dilatation should be effected very slowly, by means of a metallic or some other dilator, till the urethra is capable of admitting the forefinger, when a forceps may be introduced to seize the stone. If this should not answer, and it seems necessary to make an incision, he recommends that the anterior half of the urethra—not its whole length into the bladder—should be divided to the extent of half an inch with a probe-pointed bistoury; after which sufficient dilatation may be effected with the forefinger oiled. The outer part of the urethra, which is the most imdilatable part of it, would be alone divided by this operation, and the neck of the bladder, unless very roughly used, would speedily acquire its tone and use. In this way the eminent surgeon just quoted has extracted a stone three inches in circumference, and the patient had the power of retaining her urine immediately afterwards.f * De la taille Recto-Vesicale par ecrasemeat lineaire, par Emile Servoin, D.M., &c. &c. Paris, Rignoux. 1862. t Fergusson, Practical Surgery, second edition, p. 135.