455 CATAERHAL INFLAMMATION. and accurately, so that no air-bubbles may be squirted in; the patient should be carefully protected by towels; and the water injected should be clean, and in a separate basin ; the dirty water that has been already used should not be injected over again.* A large metal syringe is the best instrument for washing out accu- mulations of wax; a small elastic bottle is the best for applying lotions or injections ; and one of the small elastic suction-bottles with a tube, commonly known as Margetfs, is a capital thing to enable patients themselves to pass a gentle stream of warm water into the ear, as a fomentation, in any case of pain or inflammation. This is a most soothing process. Margett's syringe is also useful for douching the eye. HI. Catarrhal Inflammation of the lining membrane of the meatus. This is often excited by cold or stomach disorder, and is most frequent in children whilst cutting their teeth ; it may accompany strumous ophthalmia, porrigo, and other eruptions; or it may be a sequel of either of the exanthemata, or, in fact, of any weakening illness. The little patient is feverish and complains of earache; the meatus is swelled and vascular ; and these symptoms are soon followed by thin yellowish discharge. A purgative should be given ; during the early stage the ear should be fomented or soothed with a large bi'an poul- tice ; the discharge should be constantly washed away : and if it con- tinue after the health is restored, astringent applications must be used combined with mild counter-irritation, F. 135, 136, 140. The sur- geon should not allow the parents to believe that an habitual discharge is salutary, or that there is any fear, under proper treatment, of " driving it in upon the brain." If at any time during the treatment, an attack of acute pain and fever should come on, and the discharge should stop suddenly, leeches, pur- gatives, and fomentations must be resorted to, and all astringent appli- cations be abandoned till these acute symptoms have subsided. IV. A THICKENED state of the epidermis lining the meatus is not uncommon. The flakes of cuticle that sometimes till the meatus, with or without disciiarge, must be removed by syringing with warm water ; and then the membrane should be brushed over with a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and afterwards with dilute citrine oint- ment (F. 168) melted and applied warm with a brush. Cleanliness is of the greatest consequence, as this afiection is very apt to return if it is neglected. The epidermis often accumulates in exceedingly hard masses very difficult to remove. Warm oil or a lotion of carb. sod£B should be frequently applied, and gentle syringing repeated as often as is necessary. V. Small follicular abscesses often form within the meatus, especially in persons of weakened constitution. They are exceedingly painful, and very apt to recur. The constitutional condition should be looked to. Fomentations as hot as can be borne, and the local applica- * A simple kind of water-spout is made by Coxeter, which may be applied to the ear, and entirely prevent the patient from being wetted.