HYSTERIA AND HYPOCHONDRIASIS. 13 We will conclude witli three rules, which we entreat the young prac- titioner to observe, assuring him, from ample experience, that they will save him much trouble. 1st. Be sure that you do not treat hysterical sensations as organic disease. If you do, you lead the patient into endless debility and trouble ; especially if it is the womb which is believed to be diseased. 2ndly. Never treat an organic disease as if merely hysteric. If so, you may lose your character and the patient's life or limb. 3rdly. Remember, that organic disease may exist, and hysteria too; and that the presence of hysteria is no proof that the whole case is hys- teric. Therefore, in any case of local pain, long continued, if the health and flesh fail, suspect that there may be some organic cause, though the bulk of the symptoms be hysteric. To order sea-bathing and horse- exercise for an hysterical girl with pain in the back, and to discover vetebral caries afterwards, is not good. Here is a practical rule. If a patient gets fat or keeps so, the diagnosis of hysteria is probably right: if she lose flesh, the search for organic disease should be renewed.* IV. Hypochondriasis is alow, desponding state of mind, generally accompanied by a vitiated state of blood and imperfect excretion, or by some cause of exhaustion. The patient is apt to imagine himself the prey of a variety of diseases. By way of example we may refer to Syphilophobia. A patient consults the surgeon, assuring him that he is labouring under a severe and confirmed secondary syphilis. On being questioned, it may be found that there is no satisfactory evidence that he has had primary syphilis; and he will point to a small pimple as his secondary symptoms. He ascribes every sensation, however innocent, to the working of the poison in his veins, and cannot be convinced to the con- trary. The three rules we have laid down regarding hysteria are here of immense utility. A patient may be fanciful, yet his maladies may not be all fanciful, and the surgeon who overlooks this possibility is guilty of carelessness and cruelty. One more rule we must lay down with respect to confirmed hypochondriacs—Never attempt to argue them out of their belief. If the diseased sensations could be argued away, the patient need not have come to you. Treat the case on the principle, that the patient's sensations and mental powers are disordered by sei'ious aberration in the bodily health, or by some mental trouble ; it may be grief, or low living, or exhausting fatigue, or a gouty taint. Do not ridicule or ignore the patient's statement. Many an inexplicable sensa- tion, put down to nervousness, has been the forerunner of oiganic disease. Therefore, examine the local symptoms carefully, and if you find no local disease, treat the general health on common principles. * See T. Holmes, Path. Trans. 1863, xiv. 12 ; case of hysteria with spasms and disordered sensation in legs; death ; post mortem tubercle, found in spinal cord.