726 THE ECRASEUK. would be very tedious and difficult. Again, in the former case, it is necessary to cut quite wide of the diseased mass, and remove plenty of * the surrounding tissue; in the latter case, the incisions should be carried through the cellular cyst of the tumour. Then after a fi*ee incision through the cyst, the tumour may often be squeezed or twisted out, and its connections be torn, with the assistance of one or two touches of the knife. In all cases it is a better plan (unless the tumour is exceedingly large) to caiTy the dissection at once boldly to the deepest part whei'e the largest vessels enter than to tie the different branches as they are divided, by which means some vessels may perhaps be tied more than once. Again, it is requisite in every case that the extirpa- tion be complete, because if tlie smallest portion is left, it may become the nucleus of a fresh growth. If, therefore, it is found that there is any portion of a tumour which cannot be cut out without fear of dan- gerous hsemorrhage, a double ligature should be passed through its base, and be tied tightly on each side of it. The serrefines of wire and the small forceps here depicted, which hold on by their own elasticity, may be of service to check bleeding in extensive operations. 11. The EcraseuPw—As the act of biting the umbilical cord by an animal is to the cut of the knife or scissors, so is the effect of this in- strument to that of the knife. It is a machine, consisting of a fine chain (perhaps wire or whipcord), and of a screw or rack for tighten- ing it; so that when the chain is made to surround any tumour it is made slowly to crush or bite its way through. The advantage of the instrument is, that it causes little or no bleeding. The cases in which it is applicable are those of cancer of the tongue, piles, vascular tumours, polypi and other tumours of the womb and rectum, and the division of the pedicle of an ovarian cyst. In the case of a tumour witli a pedicle, its application is easy; if the mass is solid, or it is desired to extirpate a portion of the side of the tongue, for example, the chain may be * A well-constructed forceps by Matthews, for operations and resections. The teeth hold like those of the shark, on which they are modelled.