473 CANCRUM ORIS. classical V incision, as Lebert terms it, may therefore be abandoned; and a clean sweep made with the knife. 'J'he wound must be brought together vertically by pins and the twisted suture; and, if desirable, in order to facilitate this, incisions may be made at each corner of the mouth. The operation may be successful; at all events the cure may last the patient's life; but quite as often, or more so, a relapse occurs within the space of from six months to two years. The more quickly the disease has relapsed, the more quickly it is likely to do so, after a second operation ; yet the operation should be boldly repeated, and the glands or jaw-bone be removed, if necessary. Hannover relates the case of a man who was operated on for the first time in May 1834, for a disease of two years' duration ; the second time in 1846 ; the third in 1849 ; the fourth in 1850 ; with good results up to 1852. tio instance is known of a spontaneous cure of ulcerated epithelioma of the lower lip ; and the knife, under chloroform, is infinitely less formidable than the daily miseries of the disease. In cases not fit for the knife, the pallia- tive treatment of cancer must be adopted.* VII. Corroding Ulcer op the Face ; Lupus Exedens ; Can- croid.—Epithelioma proves fatal, as we have just narrated, by the supervention of a corroding and intractable ulceration in a tissue previously infiltrated with epithelium. But we must recall to the student's memory, that a corroding ulcer, proving ultimately fatal, is apt to attack the face, without pre-existing epithelial, or cancerous disease. Lupus exedens is an instance. Another, closely allied, is a sort of corroding ulcer, which is very apt to affect the lower eyelid, nose, or cheek of the aged. It often affects some wart that has existed for years. It produces an irregular dryish glassy ulcer, without the hard base or warty edges of epithelioma, or of hard cancer ; and so slowly progressive that it may sometimes be doubted whether the patient has died of the disease or of old age. The glands are not affected. Excision of such ulcer, or of its precursory wart, may be performed ; but these are the cases in which a permanent cure may be hoped for by the use of arsenic as a caustic. The case of the late Pope, Gregory the Sixteenth, may be an example. He had a corroding nicer on the nose, which was treated successfully with the arsenical paste, by M. Allertz, of Aix-la-Chapelle, so that the ulcer healed, and there was no relapse during the remaining eight years of the Pope's life. True epithelioma and cutaneous cancer may also affect the face, head, or ear; but it seems that in none of these parts is epithelioma so rapid in its progress, or so likely to relapse after opei'ation as in the lower lip. VIII. Cancrum Oris—{Phagedoena otHs, gangrenous erosion of the cheek)—is a phagedseno-gangrenous affection of the lips and cheeks, occurring almost exclusively amongst the ill-fed squalid children of large towns. It appears to be a disease of debility, and to be in- duced by want of proper food and of fresh air, and by neglect of clean- liness. Like other disorders of a similar character, it is very liable * See Paget, Lectures, vol. ii.; Lebert, op. cit.; Hannover, op, cit.