233 GANGLION. XI. Chalkstone Deposits are composed of the lithate of soda ; a white insoluble substance, which in gouty subjects is frequently depo- sited into the texture of the bones, joints, and cellular tissue, but most frequently into the cellular tissue that environs the tendons of the feet or hands. Tiiese deposits may be permeated by exquisitely- sensible threads of cellular membrane. After remaining indolent for a variable time, they may inflame the superjacent skin, and cause the formation of ulcers that are extremely obstinate, and discha]*ge vast quantities of the concretion. They must be treated with simple dress- ings. It is rarely expedient to meddle with these tumours with the knife; but if any one be very inconveniently situated, and be perfectly indolent, it may be extirpated. The wound must be expected to heal very slowly. XII. Ganglion.—This is an encysted tumour formed by the sheath of a tendon, or by a new cyst developed in one of the fringes of the synoval sheaths, or by a bursa, whether original or created by friction. When recent, it is an indolent fluctuating tumour, transparent enough to permit the light of a candle to be seen through it. It contains a clear synovia ; thin, or viscid and semifluid. Not unfre- quently this fluid contains a number of small cartilages of a millet-seed shape, which are found floating loose in a thin fluid, but appear to grow from some part of the lining of the cavity, and afterwards become detached. The ordinary situation of ganglion is that of the various bursse; on the patella or olecranon, or on the inner side of the head of the tibia, or the angle of the scapula; but most fre- quently about the wrist, fingers, and back of the hand in connexion with the extensor tendons. In this situation it is often the result of a sort of hernial protrusion of the synovial membrane lining the sheath through an accidental opening in the fibrous sheath itself. When the general sheath of the flexor tendons at the wrist is affected in this way, it forms a remarkable tumour, which pro- * A ganglion, formed by the synovial sheath of the flexor tendon ot a finger.