442 AMAUKOSIS. Whenever the state of the eye will admit it, the ophthalmoscope should be used not only for diagnosis, but to ascertain the arrest or the progress of the affection. Diagnosis.—Amaurosis may be distinguished from cataract by noticing, 1. That, in cataract, an opaque body can be seen behind the pupil, and that the impaii-ment of vision is, for the most part, in pro- portion to the extent of that opacity; whereas, in pure amaurosis, in young persons, the pupil shows its natural colour. A greenish colour of the pupil has sometimes been considered a diagnostic mark of amau- rosis. On this point, says Mr. Walton, " the paleness or light yellow- ness, that exists behind the pupil after middle life, is often thought to be symptomatic of amaurosis; it is, however, but the effect of the coloration of the lens, and is seeu with or without defective nervous power : young persons with amaurosis never exhibit this appearance. It is this coloration that produces so much difficulty in diagnosis in adults ;" and unless the symptoms be talven into account, it is often impossible, from the mere look of the pupil, to determine between the earliest stages of the two diseases. 2. That, in cataract (with the exception of the radiating variety), vision is simply clouded, and that a lighted candle appears as if enveloped in a mist; whereas, in amau- rosis, objects are seen d'^s-coloured or perverted in shape ; and that a lighted candle seems split, or lengthened, or iridescent; and that muscoB volitantes, and flashes of fire when the eyes are shut, are not present in pure cataract. 3. That, in cataract, vision is better in a dull light, whereas it is generally the reverse in amaurosis. 4. That a patient with cataract is always able to discern light from darkness, and that he looks about him, and moves his eyes, as though conscious that vision still exists, although he may be unable to discern particular objects; whereas, in confirmed amaurosis, there is the fixed vacant stare of utter darkness, and the eyeball is protruded and motionless. 5. That in pure amaurosis in young persons, befbi e the lens has begun to change colour, the three images of a candle are as distinct as in the healthy eye, which is not the case in cataract. In the aged, says Mr. Walton, the catoptric test may enable the surgeon to compare the existing degree of opacity, with the amount of imperfection of vision ; for instance, he may judge the case to be amaurotic if the degree of blindness is great, out of all proportion to the degree of opacity of the lens; but the ophthalmoscope will be found the greatest aid to diagnosis. Prognosis.—This is generally unfavourable—unless the disease depends on some palpable cause which admits of removal, and unless the remedial measures employed very soon produce good effects. Varieties.—Amaurosis has been divided into the functional and organic; the former depending on some sympathetic or other disorder which does not primarily affect the structure of the nervous apparatus of the eye—the latter on organic disease. Causes.—The usual causes of amaurosis are circumstances that overstimulate and exhaust the retina ; such as long-continued exertion