295 LOOSE CARTILAGES. There can be no doubt that these appearances have been occasionally mistaken for the results of injury—such as rupture of the biceps, or unreduced dislocation. This disease may invade almost any joint, but especially the hip, the shoulder, the joints of the hand, and especially that between the thumb and carpus, and those of the spine.t The causes are obscure, but are referred to the rheumatic or gouty diathesis, or both. Young women may be attacked at puberty, or middle-aged women at the cessa- tion of the menses, or persons much exposed to cold and wet; but it is the aged who are the peculiar victims of this disease. Any blow or bruise is liable to act as an exciting cause. See Dislocations of the Shoulder and Fractures of the Hip. The treatment., not very suc- cessful at the best, consists in the use of warm aperients, antacids, and medicines reputed to possess anti-rheumatic virtues, such as the warm purgatives and tonics under F. 37, 38, 55, 56, 72, 73, and 7 ; in fact, rhubarb, beaurae de vie, guaiacum, ammonia, sulphur and bark, with generous diet, opiate embrocations, llannel bandages, and warm douches, especially of the Bath waters. The chloride of arsenic has been recommended. Vapour or Tui'kish baths may be tried. V. Loose Cartilages commence as little pendulous growths upon the synovial membrane, which become accidentally detached. They occur most frequently in the knee. Symptoms.—They can be felt when they present themselves at the surface of the joint; and when they get between the ends of the bones, which they are very apt to do during exercise, they cause sudden ex- cruciating pain and faintness, followed by inflammation. Treatment.—If possible, the loose body should be fixed by bandages, so as to prevent it from getting between the bones, otherwise it must be removed by subcutaneous incision, a plan which seems to have been * This cut shows the head of a femur, the preceding one the corresponding acetabulum affected with chronic rheumatic arthritis; from specimens belong- ing to E. Canton, Esq. t R.W.Smith, on Fractures, &c. near Joints; B, Bell, on Diseases of the Bones, 1828 ; Edwin Canton, Surgical and Pathological Observations, 1855 ; W. Adams, on Enlargement of Articular Extremities of Bones in Chronic Rheu- matic Arthritis, Pathological Trans, vol.iii.; R. W. Smith, on Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis of the Shoulder, Dublin Quarterly, Feb. 1853.