276 FRACTUKES OF THE FEMUR. {d.) In some cases the neck of the bone is driven into, and impacted firmly within, the cancellous tissue of the head; a circumstance which of course renders it difficult to say whether the injury be one of fracture or of mere contusion. The chief cha- i-acters of this injury are those summed up by Dr. Smith :—" 1. Slight shorten- ing of the limb. 2. Slight eversion of the foot. 3. Absence of crepitus. 4. Great difficulty in all cases, and in the majority an impossibility of removing the shortening of the limb by extension; and, lastly, less loss of power than in other forms of fracture of the neck of the femur." Prognosis.'—^This fi-acture does not unite by bone, except in the rare instances in which the broken surfaces are held closely together by the untorn perios- teum, or by impaction ; or in which the fracture is partly internal and partly external to the capsular ligament. In such cases there is no doubt that bony union may occur; but in the majority the fracture either unites by ligament, or, more commonly, does not unite at all; but the stump of the cervix becomes rapidly absorbed, rounded, and covered with a smooth porcellaneous deposit, and plays in a socket formed by the hollowing and absorption of the head. The capsular ligament becomes excessively thick, and so does the obturator externus muscle, so as to support the weight of the body. The reason of this non-union is, probably, the want of apposi- tion and of pressure of the fractured surfaces against each other; to which may be added the age and debility of the patients; the atrophy of the part injured; the imperfect nourishment of the upper fragment, and the general indisposition of bones covered with synovial membrane to throw out callus. Diagnosis.—The surgeon fehould be aware that a fall on the hip is apt to produce interstitial absorption and shortening of the neck of the femur, with disappearance of the cartilage, eburnation of the articular surfaces, and in-egular deposit of bone around the cervix (the same sei'ies of changes which the part undergoes in chronic rheumatic arthritis), with shortening of the limb, and wasting of the muscles ; with most of the conditions, in fact, that follow a fracture. Thus, the patient on recovering from the immediate effects of the injury, finding the limb lame and shortened, may accuse the surgeon of having over- looked a dislocation or fractui-e. Of course the sui-geon must defend himself by proving the absence of the symptoms of these injuries immediately after the accident, and by reference to authenticated * Impacted fracture of neck of femur. St. Mary's Museum.