242 DISEASES OF THE BONES. tism will be considered in the Chapter on the Joints, under the head of Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis. II. Acute Inflammation of bone most frequently attacks the femur or tibia in children, and is usually attributed to cold. It fre- quently affects more than one bone, but is generally confined to the shafts, and does not often extend through the epiphysial cartilage into the articular extremities. Symptoms.—The patient is seized with violent shivering and fever, and with deep-seated severe pain, and great swelling of the aflected limb, the skin of which displays a kind of erysipelatous redness. Mat- ter soon forms, burrows among the muscles, and at last points in one or several places. Sometimes the patient is * destroyed by the violence of the constitutional derangement, or sinks under the profuse suppura- tion that follows; but more frequently life is pie- served, and the bone left in a state of necrosis. On examination of cases that have proved fatal, or that have been subjected to amputation, the shaft of the bone is generally found sei)ai-ated from the epiphyses, and partially or entirely separated from its periosteum; and patches of newly-formed bone are deposited upon its surface, and between the layers of the periosteum. Treatment.—Aperient and febrifuge medicines, with leeches and fomentations, should be assiduously employed at first. So soon as fluctuation can be detected anywhere, a free and depending opening should be made; and it is better to do so too soon than too late. When a free exit is provided for the matter, a bandage should be applied to prevent its accumulation. If the patient seem likely to sink, in spite of tonics, stimulants, and nutriment, the limb must be amputated. Diffused Abscess.—In some instances the medul- lary tube and cancelli of the bone are found filled with pus. This is apt to happen after amputation, excisions, and compound fracture. Sometimes, however, it is induced by cold or bruises, without a Avound. It may be suspected when an entire bone is necrosed, including its articular extremities, which usually escape in common inflammation, although the shaft perishes. The facility with which a communication can be established, between the cancellous structure and the veins of an injured bone, explains the frequency with which symptoms of blood-poisoning, and deposits of pus, and the other symptoms commonly attributed to phlebitis, are apt to occur after injuries of the skull and of other bones. —See Pycemia, * Necrosis of the humerus.