222 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. loss of enamel, which is often seen in the second teeth of strumous persons, but the peculiar appearance here depicted which is the cha- racteristic. " The skin," says Mr. Hutchinson, " is almost always thick, pasty, and opaque. It also often shows little pits and scars, the relics of a former eruption, and at the angles of the mouth are radiating linear scars running out into the cheei<s. The bridge of the nose is almost always broader than usual and low ; often it is remarkably sunk and expanded. The forehead is usually large and protuberant in the regions of the frontal eminences ; often there is a well-marked broad depression a little above the eyebrows. The hair is usually long and thin, and now and then (but only rarely) the nails are broken and splitting into layers. If the eyes have already suffered, a hazy state of the cornese, and a peculiar leaden lustreless condition of the irides, with or without synechijE may be expected. If, however, the eyes have not yet been attacked by syphilitic inflammation, they will present no deviation from the state of perfect health and brilliancy. The occurrence of well- characterized interstitial keratitis is now considered by several high authorities as pathognomic of inherited taint." Frequent abortions and loss of the earlier infants of a family are also suspicious. Iritis, in infants from about six to fifteen months; scrofulous corneitis between the age of eight and fifteen ; inflammations of the deeper structures of the eye; and deafness, are the special symptoms enumerated by Mr. Hutchinson as evidence that the patient has suffered heretofore from syphilitic disease. But as we before said, the syphilitic taint alone produces no visible symptoms unless some actual disease of mouth, skin, eyes, &c., have followed. Hence, a young adult may have truly syphilitic disease of congenital origin, but yet none of the foregoing signs of previous attacks. Whatever form of disease can be provoked by scrofula may be imi- tated by syphilis; in every case, therefore, of inexplicable strumous or strumous looking disease in early life, the evidences of syphilis may be cautiously inquired for. The remedies ai'e mercury, iodide of potassium with ammonia, and tonics. The two former should be used to relieve existing symptoms, but not to prevent future ones. SECTION XI.—DOUBTFUL AND MIXED CASES. Typical Cases.—The student will meet with many cases which answer to the description we have given, and which may serve as patterns:—such are, ordinary gonorrhoea, followed or not by tenderness of inguinal glands, orchitis, and rheumatism ; soft chancre, with or with- out suppurating bubo, and without secondary symptoms; pure hard chanci'e, with indolent glandular enlargement and secondary symptoms in six weeks. But many cases will be met with, in which one of these forms of disease will be combined with some other ; or with the remains of a foregoing infection, hereditary or not, and which it will be extremely difficult to disentangle, and to identify with the pattern cases in books.* * Of all these complications there is a perfect magazine of cases and illus- trations in Dr. Jeffery Marston's papers, Med. Chir. Trans, vols. xlv. and xlvi.