719 CHLOROFORM. the operation he had what was described as alarming syncope. Spite of this, the patient was chloroformed again on the 15th and 19th Dec, by Dr. Snow; whose large experience had given him no room to anti- cipate bad results. On Sept. 15th, 1852, there was occasion for another operation. Chloroform was again given by Dr. Snow. The patient became insensible in three or four minutes, without struggling. The operation was begun. A little of the vapour was given twice or thrice to keep up the effect. After a few minutes great paleness of lips and face were noticed ; but immediately afterwards the face reddened, and the patient strained, as though he telt the operation. Hereupon, a little more vapour, lai'gely diluted, was given. But now after two or three inspirations the breathing ceased. It seemed as though the patient were holding his breath a little, as sometimes happens; but on feelino- the wrist there was no pulse. In a few seconds came one deep inspira- tion ;—a few rapid and feeble pulsations of the heart wore heard, which then ceased; one or two very faint inspirations followed at the interval of a quarter of a minute ; then death. Cold affusion and artificial re- spiration were employed without avail. On inspection the heart was found large, soft, friable, and in a state of fatty degeneration. That death in this, and in other similar cases, is brought about by paralysis of the heart, and not by suffocatiori, was successfully shown by the late Dr. Snow. He showed that death from pure suflbcation is never so quick as death from chloroform has always been ; that in cases of death from privation of air, the heart goes on beating for some few minutes after breathing has ceased; whereas, as a matter of fact, in most cases of death by chloi oform, the breathing has been proved to go on up to the time the pulse stopped, and after it;—that patients have breathed it freely without struggling up to the instant of death; and that sudden paleness is a more frequent phenomenon in these ca^es, than turgescence of the face; although neither is incompatible with palsy of the heart. The writer may add, that in the only case in which any alarming symptoms occurred whilst he was administering chloro- form, the patient complained afterwaids, not of choking, but of the un- mistakeable symptoms of angina,—fixed pain, great oppression, and feeling as of a load in the region of the heart. Thirdly, chloroform may cause death by what the French call by the classical term sideration, to wit, a star-struck or blasted state of the nervous system ; or, in plain English, by a sudden annihilation of the life of the brain and spinal cord. Hence the syncope may be caused by the state of the brain, and not merely by the direct action of the poison on the heart. That the poison has an injurious operation on the nervous centres, is manifest fi om the nature of the thing, and from the vomiting. In giving it to young babies the writer has occasionally noticed squinting, blueness of lips, and tendency to convulsions. In an uncertain number of cases, too, chloroform may have added to the general exhaustion, which has caused patients to sink from the shock of operations.