GENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS FROM CANCER. 127 3. Ulcerated cancer is distinguished from any simple ulcer, and from lupus, by the pre-existenoe of cancerous tumour, and by its hard and immoveable, and extending base. From the ulcer of epithelioma, it is dilFerenced by the warty origin, and the hypertrophy of the cutaneous papillae of the latter. But as the two affections may coexist, and as extirpation is the remedy for each, it is important to attend to the mi- croscopic differences of structure, in order that it may be known whether it is the almost surely fatal cancer, or the possibly curable epithelioma, that the surgeon has to deal with. If cancer, there will be found the cancer cells, or if not, an abundance of cancer nuclei, and in most cases of cutaneous cancer, melanotic infiltration. On the con- trary, in epithelioma there will be found the epithelial cell, in every variety, arranged in adherent laminai, with their large, flattened, and often folded walls, containing, usually, a single nucleus not varying much in size in the different ceils, and there are the concentric loculated arrangements, or nests of epithelium. But as Lebert well observes, it is very possible that some epithelial cells may be found so like some cancer cells that it is hardly possible to distinguish between them. In any case, however, it is the character of the great mass, and not of individual, possibly exceptional, specimens that should be regarded. Moreover, epithelial tumours yield no juice \ or if a liquid be squeezed out, or scraped up, it does not mix uniformly with water, as pus and cancer juice do, but runs into clotty or leafy masses, composed of large numbers of adherent and similar cells, with clear water in the interstices of the masses. It is sometimes stated that cancer may be diagnosed by the micro- scopical appearances of the discharge. But this is fallacious. The cancer cell would perish on an ulcerating surface, and could scarcely be distinguished amidst the pus and ichor present. Ulcerated epithe- lioma may be more easily distinguished, because epithelium i* less de- structible and more likely to come off in coherent masses. The cut at p. Ill represents a papilla from epithelioma of the bladder, found in the urine, and diagnosed during the patient's life. 4. Soft cancer of t\\Q fungus hcematodes variety, when abundantly vascular and pulsating, may be mistaken for an erectile tumour, or aneurism hy anastomosis. But the long, perhaps, congenital dux-ation ol:' the erectile tumour, with the fact that the pulsating cancer must be of very rapid growth, and that the erectile tumour can generally be emptied by steady and continued pressure, are leading diagnostic marks. 5. Glandular hypertrophy may be distinguished by its finely-grained surface, like that of the fully-developed gland during lactation; by its mobility; and by the absence of adherence to the skin, of retraction of the nipple, of swelling of the lymphatics, of much pain, tenderness, or hardness, and of serious derangement of the health. 6. Cystic Sarcoma of the breast {adenocele) or testicle may be dis- tinguished by their slow growth, absence of pain and constitutional cachexia, by their smooth lobulated outline, with frequent cystic.