403 DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. tentionally with such a tumour. Pain, preternatural flow of tears, and a lobulated tumour under the outer part of the roof of the orbit, are the symptoms; careful extirpation the remedy. See Section xviii. Sometimes this gland is extirpated, in order to get rid of the flow of tears, in cases in which the eye has been lost, and the puncta closed by burns or other injuries, so that the tears are incessantly dribbling on the cheek. An incision must be made for this purpose along the edge of the orbit, through skin, orbicularis, and fascia, when the gland will be exposed, and both portions of it must be removed; for it must be recollected that it has two lobes, and that if either of these is left, the purpose of the operator is defeated. SECTION V. DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. I. Common or Catarrhal Ophthalmia consists of inflammation of the conjunctiva. Symptoms.—Smarting, heat, stiffness, and dryness of the eye, with a feeling as if dust had got into it; the conjunctiva of a bright-scarlet redness; the redness superficial, so that the enlarged vessels can be moved by pulling the eyelids ; slight intolerance of light axid flow of tears on exposure of the eye at first, followed by a thin purulent discharge, which in severe cases becomes thick, and doubtless contagious. Causes.—Slight local irritation, disorder of the digestive organs, or cold and damp. Treatment.—A dose of calomel followed by black draught, and pre- ceded by an emetic if the stomach is very foul; the eye to be frequently bathed with poppy decoction, or the weaker forms of F. 140, luke- warm or cold, according to the patient's choice; the edges of the eye- lids to be smeared at night with fresh lard, and with weak ung. hydr. nit. ox. after the first day or two; a green shade to be worn over hath eyes, if there is much intolerance of light; but the patient not to be confined to the house too long, unless the case is very severe, or the weather bad. If there is much inflammation, a large drop of solution of arg. nit. (gr. i. ad _^i.) may be put into the eye twice or thrice a day. If there is much pam, leeches may be applied to the temples; and if the patient is plethoric, and there is much headache and fever, bleeding and calomel in repeated doses may be required. But it is a great mis- take to treat common inflammation of the conjunctiva, when it occurs in delicate subjects, by lowering measures. After the bowels are cleared, a good diet, and exposure to moderate light and cool air, and an astringent lotion, will do more good than black draughts, leeches, and green shades. II. Chronic Inflammation of the Conjunctiva may be a sequel of the acute; or may be caused by some local initation, such as inverted eyelashes ; or by some derangement of the health. Treatment.—1. All local sources of irritation should be removed. 2. The general health should be amended, in the same manner as directed for chronic inflammation generally. 3. The distended capil-