177 HYDROPHOBIA, during the day. Quinine in large doses, or some other form of cinchona, and mineral acids in the latter stages are indicateJ. Local Treatment.—So soon as pain is first experienced in the axilla, warm poppy fomentations should be applied. But so soon as any dis- tinct swelling can be detected, an incision should be made into it,—in order to relieve pain and tension, and to prevent the ditfusionof serum or pus that may have been formed in the meshes of the cellular tissue. Incisions are the sine qua non of the treatment; the point on which success mainly depends : and it is most truly observed by Mr. Stafford, that, in most of the cases that have hitherto occurred, if swelling or abscess formed, and were not opened, the result was fatal. If the patient survive, he should as soon as possible be removed into the country, and be put on a course of tonics and liberal diet. All the collections of matter, which sometimes continue to form for months, should be opened as soon as they are detected ; and the ulcers that remain be dressed with stimulating lotions and bandages. Precautionary Measures.—We need scarcely comment on the expediency of using some precautions in performing post-mortem exa- minations, especially if the operator be out of health, or if the patient have died of any disease of an erysipelatous character. Scratches on the fingers, and hangnails, should be covered with adhesive plaster or collodion, or be touclied with the nitrate of silver to form an eschar, and the entire hands sliould be well smeared with lard. If the operator should puncture himself, or should suffer a scratch or abrasion to come in contact with the fluids of the subject, he should immediately wash his hands, and thoroughly suck the wound. Then the nitrate of silver should be applied to it, in order to decompose the poison and excite a slight inflammation, which will prevent imbibition. CHAPTER IX. EFFECTS OF POISON GENERATED BY DISEASED ANIMALS. SECTION I.—HYDROPHOBIA, Definition.—Hydrophobia is a disease caused by inoculation with the saliva of a rabid animal, and chai'acterised by intermitting spasms of the muscles of respiration, together with a peculiar irritability of the body and disturbance of the mind. Symptoms in the Dog.—Since prevention is better than cure, it is very desirable that every medical practitioner should know the symp- toms of rabies in the dog, and most especially the earliest syraptom.s. These, according to Mr. Touatt, are unusual sullenness, fidgeting, and continual shifting of posture." The cjog retreats to his basket or bed for several hours, where he lies curled up, with his face buried be- tween his paws. Then he becomes fidgety, continually changing his