693 CLUB-FOOT. bruises, injuines, or disease of joints. (See Spurious Anchylosis, p. 303.) General Treatment.—The indications are, first (in non-congenital cases), to remove all causes, and to soothe spasm, and give power to palsied muscles. If any case comes under treatment, before the con- tracted muscles have become fixed in their rigidity, this may be done by purgatives, and other means of sweeping away excentric causes of irritation : or by fomentations and anti-rheumatic remedies, as the case may be. The writer has met, in his practice as an accoucheur, with cases of valgus in newly-born children fiom spasm of the peronaii and other muscles which raise the outer edge of the foot; in which castor-oil and friction, and manipulation, effected a cure ; in other cases, if the spasm has seemed obstinate, he has divided whatever tendons were rigid. In one case this form of spas- modic valgus was associated with wry neck. Both did well. Tonics, especially steel, aie of service with older children. The cases in which deformity arises from paralysis are less promising. But here a distinction must be drawn between local paralysis and general. Local paralysis, such as the blighting and atrophy of an entire limb, from exposure to cold, or even from fever, or irritation of teething, is curable by friction, galvanism, and other means of keeping the muscles from lapsing into quietude and degeneration, combined with tonics and proper nourishment. But when it depends on primary disease of the nervous centres, such as a hydrocephalic attack in a strumous child, and in adult paralysis generally, it is much less so. As to mechanical measures, in slight cases, splints of gutta percha, or of wood, with bandages, and great care, may do everything. Mr. Barwell, of Charing Cross Hospital, advocates a system of treatment by means of vulcanized india-rubber bands, acting like springs, to sup- plement the inefficient action of the weakened antagonistic muscles. The springs are applied over these muscles, and act in their direction ; they have a thin plate of flexible metal at each end, which is attached by adhesive plaster placed round the limb to keep them in place. But in severe cases, delay is injurious ; and from the healthy condition of the muscles at birth, active treatment will be more likely to be satisfactory if adopted early. Therefore if these measures do no speedy good, it is better * Talipes valgus, from Mr. W. Adams's collection.