2 PKOSTEATION, OR COLLAPSE. cotic poison. Nausea and vomiting; hiccup ; suppression of urine ; and in children, convulsions, are also very frequent symptoms. The duration of these symptoms is also extremely various. Some- times they pass oflf very quickly ; but they may remain even for forty- eight hours before reaction is thoroughly established, for the process of recovery from collapse is commonly called reaction. A very familiar illustration of collapse is afforded locally by any severe blow. Suppos- ing, for instance, a sharp blow on the shin, the patient is unable to move his leg for some minutes. We do not know what the exact change is, but we cannot doubt that the blow produces some physical change in the nerves leading to the muscles. A blow on the head produces what is commonly called concussion or stunning; in which the func- tions of the brain are lost through physical injury, and those of the respiratory and cardiac nerves are also more or less affected. In like manner, after a fracture of the leg, a patient may be unable to make water. Women, too, after operations about the perina^um or anus are prone to abort if pregnant. Causes.—Collapse may be caused by every variety of injury to which mind or body is liable;—great and sudden extremes of grief, or joy, or fear, or cold ;—large doses of any corrosive or sedative poison, such as arsenic, or tobacco;—great loss of blood, and mechanical injuries. It is most important that the surgeon should know what injuries are most likely to be followed by fatal collapse, in order that he may have proper materials for giving his prognosis. They are:— Injuries of organs that are necessary to life, as the stomach and brain, or that are intimately connected with the visceral system of nerves, as the testicle and eye ; and it is well known that severe concussion of these organs may extinguish life instantaneously;—extensive injuries of any sort, especially of the skin and joints;—lacerated and gun-shot wounds; — extensive burns; — and injuries that cause very great pain. Severe pain, by itself, is capable of exhausting the vital powers. Lastly. Injuries occurring to the very aged ; or to persons that are enfeebled by excess and intemperance, or by long-standing bodily dis- ease, or mental depression; injuries, moreover, which produce a state of blood unfavourable for reparation, or which find the blood in that state. From this it will be learned that the slightest injury or surgical operation may prove fatal to persons who labour under chronic organic disease, especially of the kidneys ; or who have been harassed by con- tinued anxiety and despondency of mind ; so that in almost any case a firm persuasion that recovery is impossible is almost sufficient to render it so. Treatment.—Supposing a patient to have just received a severe injury, and that independently of haemorrhage, or of any local injury, he is in such a state of faintness and depression as to render his life pre- carious, the indication is, to excite the heart and brain to a moderate and healthy reaction. The remedies are, stimulants, of which hot brandy and water (or Formula 27) is the best;—nourishment, such as beef-tea;—and warmth by means of blankets, or of heated bricks, or