707 ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. in eight minutes, with the purpose of comparing the effects of wine with those of the intoxicating gas ; he also found that it mitigated the pain of cutting a wisdom tooth; and he threw out the hint that as it appeared " capable of destroying physical pain, so it might probably be used with advantage during surgical operations,"* Nothing in good earnest, however, was done: there was no esta- blished or systematic use of ansesthetic means until the year 1844, when Horace Wells, a dentist of Hartford, Conn., U.S., acting upon Davy's suggestion, both inhaled the nitrous oxide gas himself before one of his teeth was extracted, with the effect of producing a complete uncon- sciousness of pain, and administered it to several patients who under- went the same operation, with the same beneficial results. In the December of that year he visited Boston, and made public trial of the administration of the gas, befoie the Medical College of that city. But this experiment failed from want of proper management; and the failure subjected Wells to so great an amount of ridicule, that he fell sick through vexation, retired from practice as a dentist, engaged him- self in stuffing and exhibiting birds and in the sale of shower-baths ; afterwards came to Europe as a picture-dealer, then returned to America, became more and more unsettled in his mind, and died by his own hand in January 1848. But the experiment of Wells, at Boston, fatal as its results were to liimself, was not altogether devoid of fruit. W. G. T. Morton had been a pupil and partner of Wells, and afterwards settled in Boston, where he studied medicine and chemistry for a shoi't time under Dr. Charles T. Jackson, and then pi-aotised as a dentist. He was the person who introduced Wells to the Medical Society of Baston, and a share of the ridicule attached to the unsuccessful experiment fell upon his shoulders. It appears that the idea of finding some means of extracting teeth without pain occupied the attention of both Morton and Jackson, and was the subject of conversation between them. Morton learned from Jackson the use of chloric ether as a local appli- cation to aching teeth. Both had read in Pereira's work on Materia Medica, that the vapour of sulphuric ajther was inhaled in spasmodic asthma, chronic catarrh, and whooping-cough, and to relieve the eflTects caused by the inhalation of chlorine gas. In fact, for these purposes, the inhalation of ether, pure, or medicated with conium or other sub- stances, was a well-known and not uncommon remedy, and had been spoken of by various authors from the time of Beddoes and Kichard Fearsonf in the latter end of the eighteenth century. Jackson himself had inhaled ether to relieve the irritation caused by accidentally breath- ing chlorine gas. Mortons Discovery.^V>\xt the meiit of first employing the inha- * See Memoir of Sir H. Davy, by his Brother, John Davy, M.D., Lend., 1839 ; and Researches, Chemical and Philosophical, by Humphry Davy, Superintendent of the Medical Pneumatic Institution, Lond., 1800, p. =165, et seq. t Short Account of Different Kinds of Airs, so far as relates to their Medi- cinal Use, by Richard Pearson, M.D. Birmingham, 1795.