CAKCER. 124 allowed to keep her bed, but was taken daily into the open air in an easy chair: she lived well, and drank plenty of wine. In December the writer saw her again; she said that the tirst slough had been six weeks in separating, and that it was obliged to be removed by scissors ; that the wound was six months in healing, if healed it could be said to be ; for it had left a large tense red thin cicatrix adherent to the ribs, which cracked and bled every time she coughed. Her breathing was difficult, her cough severe, there were swellings above the clavicle, and evidently cancerous deposit in the chest. She was greatly emaciated ; strength and appetite gone ; pain constant. At the rirst interview she was hopeful, and said she had been relieved of the neuralgic pains above the clavicle; at this second interview she condemned the whole treat- ment as a delusion. She assured the writer that three ladies who had begun the treatment in March, when she did, were already dead; and she followed them in February, 1858. So this poor creature had passed the last year of her life in unutterable torture. So much for extirpation. But the very hopelessness of the disease ought to stimulate the surgeon to use eveiy effort to delay its course and soothe the patient's sufferings. The growth of the tumour may in some cases be checked by the incessant application of cold, by means of bladders filled with ice, or with a freezing mixture, on Dr. James Arnott's plan—or by pressure, with Dr. N. Arnott's slack air cushion. Powerful astringents, as the tannic and gallic acids, may delay the growth of, and check oozing from a rapidly-growing soft cancer. F. 186. 2. Antiphlogistic measures are quite powerless against cancer; but when it is mixed with some degree of common inflammatory effusion, which is apt to give a great impetus to the cancerous growth, a few leeches, cold applications, and alterative doses of Flummer's pill may be of great service. 3. Tonics, and especially the iodide and other preparations of iron, and quinine, are desirable in order to assist in forming healthy blood, and enabling the system to withstand the ra^^ages of the disease. 4. Specific remedies—such as iodine and its preparations, bromine, arsenic, and ergot of rye—are not known to be of service. 5. Narcotics may be given most unreservedly, for the purpose of subduing the gnawing pain and irritation which tend rapidly to exhaust the nervous system. Opium in the solid form, given regularly and boldly, is the sheet-anchor. Conium and other remedies of its class may be tried. 6. As local applications, during the earlier stages, fine cotton wool dusted with iodide of lead, and an occasional painting with tincture of aconite, or application of a bladder of ice, or of a lukewarm lead and opium lotion, to relieve the neuralgic pain. For the ulcerated stage the local remedies may be arranged under the following heads:—1. The soothing, including the opiate and conium lotions, F. 120, on lint covered with oiled silk; poultices, F. 157, me- dicated with the same remedies; chalk, lead, and bismuth ointments. 2. The gently stimulating; as the black-wash, carrot poultice, yeast