ACUTE ABSCESS. 54 of distention, and the constitutional symptoms are much more severe. See Hectic. Although abscesses may burst into serous cavities, or mucous canals if they happen to be near, still their general course is that which is least prejudicial; namely, towards the skin. Causes.—Acute abscess in the areolar tissue is mostly idiopathic, that is, depends on a disordered condition of the blood, and is a frequent sequel of fevers;—it may, however, be caused by blows, ecchynioses, or by foreign bodies introduced into the skin or flesh. The commonest seats of abscess are the lymphatic glands and tissues around ; arising from the arrest of acrid matters brought by the lymphatic vessels. Treatment.—In a case of idiopathic inflammation, likely to lead to abscess, the indication always is to remove, if possible, tlie morbid state of constitution on which it depends, by purgatives, and to hasten the process of suppuration by warm poultices. In abscesses arising from local injuiy, all exciting causes, such as thorns, splinters, &c., should be removed. Ponltices relax the skin, promote perspiration, soothe pain, encourage the format ion of pus, and expedite its progress to the surface. They should be large, soft, and light, and may be made of bread and water, or linseed meal, or of amiomile flowers boiled till they are soft, or of bran sewed uj) in a flannel brig, whicli may be dipped into boiling water as often as it'becomes cold (F. 152), &c. The v:iiriii-w((ter dressing—that is, a piece of soft lint, or folded linen dipped in warm water and covered with oiled silk to prevent evaporation, and the spongio-piline—are good substitutes for poultices in many cases, especially for irritable sores; but when there is much pain, they are not so soothing as the large soft warm mass of a well- made poultice. Respecting the opening of abscesses, it may be laid down as a general rule, that if they point and become pyramidal, without enlarging in circumference, they ma^ybe left to burst of themselves ; but that if they enlarge in breadth and circumference, without tending to the surface, they should be opened. In the following six cases, however, the sur- geon's aid is imperatively demanded : 1, When matter forms beneath fasciae and other dense ligamentous textures, such as the sheaths of tendons. Because these parts are dense, and ulcerate with difficulty, the pus, instead of coming to the surface, will burrow amongst muscles and tendons, extending the abscess to great distances;—producing extreme pain and constitutional disturbance, by its tension of the fasci?e which cover it, and pressure on the parts beneath,—causing risk of extensive sloughing, and impairing the futm-e motions of the part. Hence, as a general rule, all abscesses beneath fasciae, or among tendons, or under the thick cuticle of the fingers, should be fieely opened, as soon as the existence of matter is suspected. 2. When abscess is caused by the extravasation of urine, or other