544 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. and collapse, and by the nature of the matters (if any) that escape from the wound, (6) Wounds of the bowels may perhaps be known by the passage of blood with the stools, but certainly by faecal matter escaping from the wound, or by the symptoms of extravasation of their contents into the abdominal cavity—that is to say, excruciating pain, radiating over the whole belly from the seat of the injury, and attended with signs of great collapse. Fortunately, however, as Mr. Travers has shown, wounds of the stomach and intestines, unless very large, are not so liable to be at- tended with extravasation as was formerly thought. For, in the first place, the mucous membrane protrudes through the muscular, so as to fiill up a small aperture; and, secondly, any tendency to extravasation is counteracted by the constant equable pressure of all the abdominal viscera against each other. Moreover, lymph is soon effused, and glues the neighbouringparts together, and thus the aperture is circumscribed, and any future extravasation is prevented. (c) Wounds of the liver, if extensive, are, from its great vascula- rity, nearly as fatal as those of the heart. Small wounds and lacera- tions may be recovered from. There will at first be symptoms of great collapse, which, if the patient survive, will be succeeded by severe sickness, pain in the liver, yellowness of the skin and urine, great itching, and a glairy, bilious discharge from the wound. {d) Wounds or ruptui-e of the gall-bladder are almost invariably fatal, although there are one or two instances of recovery on record, (e) Wounds of the spleen, if deep, are also fatal, from the great haemor- rhage that follows, although the whole organ has been removed from animals, and from man, without much consequent evil, (/) Wounds of the kidneys are attended with bloody urine. They are exceedingly dangerous, from haemorihage, next from violent in- flammation with excessive vomiting; and lastly, from profuse sup- puration, kept up by the passage of urine through the wound. Very mild laxatives, the warm bath, very light dressings, so as to admit of the flow of urine through the wound, and some unctuous application to prevent excoriation of the surrounding skin, are the necessary mea- sures. (gr) Wounds of the bladder, if communicating with the peritonEeum, are extremely dangerous, owing to extravasation of urine. In fact, unless there is an external wound through which it can escape, they are almost uniformly mortal. The catheter must be worn constantly. Mr. Syme (in his " Contributions") gives a case of rupture of the bladder, below the line of reflection of the peritonaeum, in which the patient recovered, free incisions having been made to give exit to the urine which was extravasated between the abdominal muscles and skin. 3. If the intestines protrude, and are neither wounded nor gan- grenous, they should first be freed from any foreign particles that stick to them, and then be returned as soon as possible. The patient should be placed on his back, with his shoulders raised, and his knees drawn up. If absolutely necessary, the wound must be a little dilated with