330 TEEATMENT OF becomes quite impervious, so that an arm or leg may be torn off by a shot or by machinery, without any loss of blood from the axillary or tibial arteries. For this reason, there is no hjEmorrhage from the um- bilical cord of young animals, which is either torn, or bitten through by the mother. Lastly, it will be readily seen that division of arteries which are diseased, or which are situated in condensed and inflamed tissues, so that they cannot contract or retract, will be followed by profuse bleeding. Hence it is, that after secondary amputation, in which the parts divided are condensed from inflammation, bleeding is much more copious, and many more ligatures are required, than after primary amputation. Treatment.—The first indication is to stop the flow of blood. For this purpose, if the wound is a small one, and there is bone underneath, as in the hand, forearm, or temple, the surgeon may make firm pres- sure on it with his thumb or finger: if the wound is wide and deep, he should poke his forefinger into it, wipe away all clots, and press with the point of the finger on the exact spot the blood issues from ; or he may seize the bleeding orifice with his finger and thumb: in other cases, the blood maybe checked by grasping the limb above, and press- ing the main artery against the bone, with the points of the thumbs or fingers; or by applying the tourniquet ;t or in default of that, by passing a handkerchief round the limb, with a stone twisted in it over the artery, and twisting it tightly with a stick. Immediate danger being averted by these means, the surgeon will probably apply a ligature. Ligature.—When a stout thread is tied tightly around an artery, it divides the middle and internal coats, leaving the external or cellular coat enclosed in the knot. If the student makes the experiment, and unties the knot, and slits up the artery, he will see the results shown in the next cut. Then in the living body, the following series of phenomena occurs. The cut edges of the internal coats unite by adhesion, and the blood between the point tied and the nearest collateral branch coagulates and adheres to the lining membrane : and so the canal is sealed up. Mean- while, the ring of the cellular coat enclosed in the ligature ulcerates; the ligature comes away in from five to twenty-one days (sooner or later, according to the size of the vessel), and, finally, that portion of the artery, which is filled with coagulum, shrinks into a fibrous cord. * Contracted artery from umbilical cord of a calf. f The tourniquet is described in the Chapter on Amputations.