GENERAL DOCTRINE OF REPAIR. 25 transparent and almost invisible, except the nucleus. At first their dimension is about ^ggo ^^'^ inch. They are imbeded in more or less of a quasi fibrinous exudation, pellucid, or fibrillary. These cells wiJl often be spoken of in the following pages as fibro- plastic cells. They are formed in abundance, in all the less perfect examples of repair. They are found as some of the commonest results of inflammation. They constitute granulations. They also constitute the basis of many tumours and morbid growth as the fibroplastic. They are liable to degenerate into pus. And when diseased or perverted they may be supposed to constitute the material of cancerous tumours. But be it observed that although these cells are evolved under cer- tain conditions out of the exudation which takes place during inflam- mation, yet that the absence of inflammation is essentially necessary before they can assume their full degree of development into tissue. Blood organisable, yet not the ordinary material of repair.—In a less perfect state of knowledge it was supposed that the blood was the common medium of reparation. We now know that this is not the case; that effused blood is a hindrance rather than a help; that the clot which is effused from an injury is absorbed before the work of repair is perfect; and that if clots of blood be present in large quan- tity they are apt to decompose, and to cause suppuration. Yet it is quite true that thin clots of blood, under certain circumstances, are capable of undergoing a change into a fibrillated material similar to the nucleated blastema, and of receiving blood-vessels. Mr. Prescott Hewett showed, some time ago, that thin layers of blood effused into the cavity of the arachnoid nfiay become vascular: it was also proved by Hunter, Macartney, Kiernan, and Dalrymple, that clots are capable of receiving blood-vessels.* Mere fibrinous deposits seem to form almost structureless membrane, inert and not vascular. Formation of new vessels.—Twenty years ago, nothing was sup- posed to be organised which had not blood-vessels: and to become vas- cular, and organised, were used as convertible terms. Now, however, we know, as, in fact, what was known but not reflected on before, that blood-vesse's play a subordinate part; and that organisation proceeds to a certain point before they appear on the stage : yet that they are necessary at a certain epoch, in order that the material for fresh growth may be brought within reach. The readiest way for the student to watch the formation of new vessels, will be to examine the lympii found on the edge of a placenta. There he may see the results of the process described by Paget, the budding out of branches from the nearest capillaries, which branches enter the developing lymph, and inosculate with each other, so as to form loops: from which, again, fresh loops are directly given off in like manner. * Vide Palmer's ed. of Hunter, vol. iii.; Catalogue of the Hunterian Museum, vol. i.; Carswell, op. cit.; Macartney, op. cit. p. 51; Home, Phil. Trans. 1818 ; Wardrop on Aneurism, in the Cyclop. Pract. Surgery; Dalrymple, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ix.; P. Hewett, ihid., vol. x.; see also Lancet for 1845, vol. i.p, 219; Paget's Lectures, vol. i.