ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 733 the thread is to be pulled through the wound every day, so as to keep up a constant irritation and discharge. If the discharge is insufficient, the thread may be covered with some irritating ointment before it is drawn under the skin. Instead of threads, a small Chassaignac's drainage-tube may be used (see p. 59). XI. The Moxa is a peculiar method of counter-irritation long prac- tised in the East, and occasionally employed in Europe, for the relief • of chronic nervous and rheumatic pains, and for chronic diseases of the joints. One or more small cones, formed of the fine fibres of the Artemisia chinensis, or of some other porous vegetable substance—such as German tinder, or linen impregnated with nitre, are placed on the skin over the affected part, and then are set on fire and allowed to burn away so as to foi-m a superficial eschar. The surrounding skin must be protected by a piece of wet rag, with a hole in it for the moxa. It is convenient sometimes to use the moxa as a rubefacient or vesi- cant, and not as a cauterant. A roll of German tinder ignited may be held with dressing forceps at a little distance from the skin, the surgeon at the same time blowing upon it with a blowpipe till the skin becomes red. XII. Vaccination.—The matter should be taken on the seventh or eighth day, before an inflamed areola is spread around the vesicle ; and it should be lymph, clear and transparent, not purulent. The operator with the point of a lancet—a sharp-pointed tenotomy knife is better— should puncture, scratch, or abrade the cuticle in five spots, on the out- side of the left arm below the shoulder : each spot may be the size of 0, and the five may be arranged in the form of a cross. Then taking a drop of clear lymph on the point of the knife, he inserts it into one of the spots, taking care that the abraded skin absorbs it; and so with the others. The lymph should be applied directly from one child to another, and should not be carried about on points or lancets. But if the lymph for the first patient is on jjomfo, the surgeon should hold them in the steam of warm water so as to liquefy it, and then wipe one on each abraded spot. Special instruments, such as Spratley's, con- sisting of a grooved needle, mounted on a handle, with an angular point, guarded by a stop to prevent its going too deep, are not so good as a clean sharp-pointed knife or lancet. To preserve lymph safely, it should be dried, not kept moist in tubes or bottles. XIII. Electricity and Galvanism.—In certain cases of defective cii'culation and nervous influence; when the thigh is weakened and benumbed after sciatica ; in cases of atrophy of the extremities after fever ; when the extensors are paralyzed from long disuse, as after disease of joints ; in deficient menstruation ; in loss of voice from