PERMANENT STRICTUEE. C15 be passed four-aud-twenty hours afterwards, and should be introduced often enough subsequently to keep up the dilatation. But the con- tinued presence of the catheter is liable to cause so great an amount of irritation that it cannot always be borne, even with the aid of opium. 4. The caustic bougie is a most powerful agent in deadening the sensibility of very irritable stricture, but is liable, if mismanaged, to produce inflammation, retention of urine, haemorrhage, abscess, and any other conceivable mischief. Two kinds of caustic are used; the nitrate of silver and the caustic potass. The caustic potass is much used by Mr. Wade, who speaks highly of its effects.* 'J'he nitrate of silver may be used by means of a small fiagment inserted into the end of a bougie. There are, besides, instruments lor cauterizing the urethra, especially its prostatic portion, such as the porte caustique of Lallemand : in which a stilette coated with the solid nitrate can be protruded: there is an instrument useil by Henry Smith and others, in which the stilette is covered with sponge, dipped in a solution of the lunar caustic ;—and, still better, a catheter, devised by Mr. Erichsen, for injecting a few drops of caustic solution into any part of the urethra that it may be desired to operate on. 5. Puncturation, or division of the stiicture by means of the lanceted stilette,\ invented by Mr. Stafford, or of'lMr. Fergusson's urethrotome, may be resorted to in some cases of old stricture of small X extent, at the anterior part of the urethra, which resist dilatation. Tlie lanceted stilette consists of a tube, a, straight or curved, which is * Robert Wade on Stricture of the Urethra, 2nd edit., Lond., 1849. See also H. Smith on Stricture, p. 121. The observations in H. Thompson on Sirictm-e, 2nd edit., p. 229, on the measured and observed effect of minute fractional parts ot a grain of the potass, are well worth reading. t Stafford on Stricture, Lond. 1829. Fergusson, Pract. Surg., 3rd edit., p. 190. X -tergusson's urethrotome.