CHEILO-PLASTIC OPERATIONS. 474 to follow the measles oi' scarlatina, or any other severe and weakening illness. Symptoms.—In the instances which have fallen, under the author's observation, it has commenced as a shallow ulcer on the lip or inside of the cheek: with a peculiar dirty-gray or ash-coloured surface, and black edges. Sometimes it is said to commence with an exudation of a pale-yellow fibrinous matter, like that exuded in diphtherite. At the same time the face is swollen, the breath exceedingly fetid, and there is a dribbling of fetid saliva mixed with blood. If the disease proceeds, the ulcer becomes gangrenous, and destroys the cheek and gums ; the teeth drop out, typhoid symptoms supervene, and the patient dies ex- hausted. The swelling which accompanies this disease shows nothing like active or healthy inflammation. It is moderately firm, or what may be called semi-cedematous, and is either pale, or else of faint-pink colour. In the most rapid form of the disease it commences at once as a black spot of gangrene, which slowly spreads, and is not accompanied by any inflammation whatever ; all the parts around being quite pale and wax-like. The constitutional symptoms are at first those of weak- ness, and disorder of the stomach and bowels, and afterwards the rapid feeble pulse and stupor of typhus. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this affection is of some importance, because when a child has died of it, the parents, through ignorance or malice, are liable to bring the surgeon into trouble, by accusing him of having caused death through profuse mercurial salivation. Tiie chief points of distinction are, that in this disease the ulceration or gangrene is circumscribed, and is generally confined to one side; and that it com- mences usually in the cheek, and that it only affects that part of the gums which is in close contiguity, and that the tongue is untouched. Whereas in severe mercurial salivation, the ulceration is diffused; the whole of the gums, and the lining membrane of the cheeks, and the tongue, as well as the palate, being affected from the first. Treatment.—The indications are threefold. 1st. To evacuate and correct the seci-etions of the stomach and bowels by a dose of calomel, followed by rhubarb and magnesia. 2ndly. To keep up the strength by wine, beef-tea, and other nuti itious articles, and by bark or quinine in sufficient doses. The chlorate of potassa has been strongly recom- mended, and may be given in doses of gr. xx.—xl. in the twenty-four hours. 3rd. To excite a healthy action in the diseased part by stimu- lating lotions, especially solution of nitrate of silver, alum, sulphate of copper, or the chloride of lime ; and, lastly, if these means fail to arrest the disease, by applying the strong nitric acid so as to destroy the whole of the diseased part, in the same manner as was directed for hospital gangrene,* IX. Cheilo-plastig Operations, by which are signified opera- tions for the restoration of the lip, may be expedient when the lower * See James on Inflammation, p. 527 ; Marshall Hall, in Lancet for 1839—40, p. 409; P. H. Green, ibid.; and also in Cycl, Pi'act. Sm-g., art., Caucrum Oris; Willis on Cutaneous Diseases; Hunt, Med, Chir. Trans., vol. xxvi.