n HYSTERIA AND HYPOCHONDRIASIS. on Yaws and Tetanus, Edin. 1839. The symptoms are, locked-jaw, spasmodic difficulty of breathing and swallowing, and general convulsions. They are almost invariably at- tended with diarrhoea, and preceded by fretfulness, startings during sleep, and unusual greediness for the breast. Treatment of any kind is seldom successful; but it may be presumed that the warm bath, four or five doses of calomel (gr. i.—ii.) at inter- vals of four or five hours, a teaspoonful or two of castor oil to clear the bowels, and minute doses of laudanum (one-eighth of a minim, cautiously increased) every two hours afterwards, or chloroform, are the measures most likely to be of service.* CHAPTER lY. HYSTERIA AND HYPOCHONDRIASIS. I. Hysteria is a profound disturbance of the nervous system, most usually alfecting women, but not unknown in men. Our limits prevent us from treating of it further than as it is an occasional complication of surgical disease; suffice it to say that it seems to consist in an ex- aggeration or disturbance of the emotions of the mind, and in the sen- sitive functions of the body; and that it may ensue upon disturb- ance of health of any kind, mental suffering, delay in the development of the generative organs, or some chronic form of mal-assimilation, such as a latent gouty or rheumatic taint. It is remarkable for the great diversity of symptoms it may cause, and of the diseases it may simulate. Mental disturbance of all kinds, from the most vivid delirium to the most profound torpor; muscular affections ranging be- tween utter palsy and frightful spasm ; disturbance of sensation, includ- ing the most violent pains and the most perfect numbness; irregularity of the circulation, of the digestion, and of every other function are among its effects. II. As an illustration we may refer to Hysterical Tetanus, A female may be seized with stiff'ness of the muscles of the face and jaws, which may extend to the neck, and gradually invade the trunk and limbs, so as completely to close the mouth, and render the whole body rigid and motionless. The chief points of diagnosis are, the hysterical state of the mind ; and the fact that the muscular contraction, however great, may almost always be overcome for the moment by forcing the patient to exert her volition. The best remedies are gentle aperients, valerian, and other antispasmodics, and henbane. HI. Hysterical Neuralgia.—Hysteria is apt to cause fits of pain, which simulate various acute or chronic diseases. Sometimes it is violent pain in the head, with stupor; sometimes pain in one side, in * See a Paper by Joseph Clarke, M.D., in Med. Facts and Obs. vol. iii. Lend . 1792; Sir H. Holland's Med. Notes and Keflections, 2nd Ed. p. 29; Maunsell and Evanson on Diseases of Children, 4th Ed. Dublin, 1842, p. 219; and Maxwell