253 TREATMENT OF FEACTURE. Then the bed on which the patient is to lie should be made as firm arid level as possible. The patient is to be gently laid on it, undressed, and examined. Before putting on any apparatus, a good washing will be of use. Secondly, the fracture must be reduced or set; that is to say, the broken parts must be adjusted in their natural positions. For this purpose, the upper end of the limb must be held steadily by one assistant, while the lower is extended, or firmly, but gradually and gently drawn in such a direction as to restore the limb to its proper length and shape; the surgeon, meanwhile, by manipulating with his fingers, placing the fragments in their correct position. It is better not to do this until the splints and other apparatus are made ready for fixing, lest redisplacement occur in the meanwhile by muscular spasm and a fresh and painful adjustment rendered necessary. Chloroform sliould be administered to prevent pain and spasm. Thirdly, it is usual to bandage the whole of the fractured limb from its extremity. This is done for tlie double purpose of preventing swelling, and of confining the muscles, that they may not contract and disturb the fracture. Fourthly, it is necessary to use some mechanical contrivances to keep the limb of its natural length and shape, and prevent any motion at the fractured part. It is usual to employ for this purpose splints of wood, carved to the shape of the limb. But every surgeon ought to be able to construct splints out of such materials as the carpenter's shop affords. The surgeon should measure with a tape the sound limb which corresponds to the injured one, and choose splints that are long enough to rest against the condyles or other projecting points at its extremities. These must be padded; and pads are easily made of tow or horse- hair, well shaken or pulled out, and wrapped up in pieces of old linen. But the v^ery best pads are made of old blankets, which should be cut into strips long and wide enough to line the splints; and a sufficient number of strips should be laid on, to give the requisite softness, and they may be arranged so as to press, or not to press, exactly where the surgeon desires it. The splints, when ready, should be firmly bound to the limb with pieces of old bandage or linen straps and buckles; and when they are properly put on, so as to keep the broken part immove- able, and prevent muscular spasms, without being too tight, the patient is sure to express himself as unspeakably comfoi ted. Instead of wooden splints, it is sufficient in some cases to use pasteboard softened in boiling water, so that it may be accurately adapted, and then allowed to dry and stiffen. A good plan used in the Belgian hospitals, is to cover the broken limb with a layer of cotton wool, and, then (keeping up proper extension) to apply a bandage and cover with layers of brown paper, moistened and spread with good paste, to a sufficient thickness to keep up a resisting amount of stiffness. A strong pasteboard splint is thus formed accurately adapted to the normal shape of the limb while under extension. One of the greatest improvements in the mechanical treatment of fracture, especially of the leg, is the starched or gummed bandage.