402 FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. the affection is derived; whilst, fifthly, in old neglected cases the lachrymal or superior maxillary bone may become carious ; but. this is not very common. The fistulous aperture is generally crowded with fungous granulations, and the skin around is red and thickened, from the perpetual irritation of the tears that escape fi om it. Sometimes there is considerable loss of skin. Treatment.—Acute inflammation of the sac must be treated by leeches, purgatives, and cold lotions or poultices. If the pain increase in severity, and become throbbing, the sac should be opened in the manner to be presently described. Chronic inflammation of the sac should be treated by an occasional leech ; by steaming the nose so as to soothe and bring the whole track of mucous membrane into a healthier state, and by the strictest atten- tion to the general health, and especially to the functions of the skin and of the digestive organs. When the sac becomes distended, the patient should endeavour to press its contents down into the nose; and he should also frequently draw in his breath strongly whilst his mouth and nostrils are closed, so as to draw the tears down the duct by the pressure of the atmosphere. The secretions of the eyelids should be corrected with citrine ointment (F. 168), and a few drops of some astringent collyrium (F. 140) should be put twice a day into the inner angle of the eye, so as to be absorbed by the puncta, and carried into the sac. By these means the thickening of the duct inay perhaps be removed, ur, at all events, the patient may go on pretty comfortably. Surgical treatment.—But if the retention of the tears in the sac causes a constant irritability of the eye, or if there is a fistulous orifice between the sac and the cheek, measures should be adopted to restore the obstructed duct. In former days this was effected by means of the style, a silver or silver-gilt probe with a head like a nail, which was introduced through an opening made just below the tendo oculi, and worn for some weeks, or even months. But this mode of treatment has been in a great measure superseded by that introduced by Mr. Bowman, who slits up the canaliculus upon a fine director, and is thus enabled to introduce directly into the sac a series of probes of increasing sizes, oy wnich dilatation is gradually eflected. As this method, how- ever, is apt to be rather tedious, Mr. Hulme, after having slit up the canaliculus, passes a fine wire of virgin silver down the duct into the nostril, bends the edge of it over the lid, and cuts it off with a pair of nippers, leaving a hook about ^ of an inch long hanging externally over the lid, where it may be fixed by a piece of plaster. In a few days a lai'ger wire is introduced, and so on until the largest size will pass, which will be in two or three weeks.* IX. The Lachrymal Gland is very rarely the seat of disease, and the author is not aware of any accurate dissections or microscopical examinations: moreover, it is pretty certain that other tumours in the outer part of the orbit have been mistaken for enlargements of this gland ; and that a healthy gland has been occasionally removed unin- * Med. Times and Gazette, May, 1.859,