AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 772 steady assistant who can be trusted, is sufficient in most cases; and if the limb is amputated so high up that the tourniquet cannot be applied, there is of course no choice; the femoral artery must be compressed against the ramus of the pubes. Both hands should be used for this purpose. Either the thumbs, or else the tip of the fore, middle, and ring fingers in a line should compress the vessel, and when one hand relaxes a little, the other should press more firmly. The handle of a key covered with lint is sometimes used. The common tourniquet consists of three parts: a pad to compress the artery, which should be firm, narrow, and flattish ; a strong band which is buckled round the limb; and a bridge-like contrivance, over which the band passes, with a screw, by turning which the bridge is raised, and the band tightened. The pad should always be placed so as to compress the artery against the bone. Instead of a pad attached to the band, it is prefei-able to use a small, firm roller, about an inch thick; to put this lengthwise over the main artery, and secure it by a turn of bandage; and to apply the band of the tourniquet over this. The band should first of all be buckled tightly ; then by turning the screw a very powerful degree of force is exerted. The screw may be put over the pad, or on another part of the limb ; but it should always be put opposite the buckle of the band. The advantage of the tour- niquet is, that it compresses the smaller arteries as well as the principal trunk; its disadvantage is, that it arrests the venous circulation, and causes a greater loss of venous blood; wherefore it should never be constricted tightly until the incisions are just commencing. Amputations may be performed either, 1, by cutting from the skin towards the bone with a circular sweep of the knife, or with two oval semicircular sweeps; or, 2, by transfixion and cutting flaps outwards; or by a combination of either method. The advantages of the circular method are, a less surface of wound, a more clean and direct section of the vessels, and less liability to protrusion or uncovering of the end of the bone. Those of the flap are, its quicker performance (and with less pain when no anaesthetics are used), and the more perfect coaptation of the cut surface. The vessels, however, are apt to be cut or sliced obliquely, or opened in more places than one. The flap operation enables the surgeon to select a flap where he pleases, so that when the