BUBO. 207 base and rather elevated edges. If this ulcer be irritated by caustic or otherwise, its base may become hard like tliat of a chancre. If left to itself, it mostly heals in a foi tnight; sooner, if situated on the exter- nal skin. The cause of this complaint is either some derangement ot the digestive organs, or irritation within the urethra, produced by un- healthy urine. It is very liable to recur in the same individual, which, of course, if known, will greatly aid the diagnosis. Treatment,—A little dry lint, or goldbeater's skin, at first, and sub- sequently a very weak lotion, with aperient and alterative medicines. 4. l^soriasis prwputii, painful, irritable, and bleeding cracks or fis- sures around the edge of the prepuce; best treated by ung. hydr. nitr. dil., and arsenic internally. 5. Cracks, tears, injuries from a hair, and abrasions, should all be healed up as quickly as possible. Any of them may be the vehicle of chancre or chancroid. SECTION Vir.—BUBO. Definition.—Inflammation of a lymphatic vessel or gland, usually in the groin, and leading from a venereal soi-e. Causes.—1. Inflammation of these glands is of the commonest occur- rence, either after local application of a poison ca}»able of being absorbed, or after an unhealthy inflammation of skin or mucous membrane, as erysipelas, eczema, &c., or, without any special local cause during a period of constitutional cachexia, as the scrofulous or syphilitic. Thus (luringgonorrhoea, or after immoderate sexual indulgence, intemperance, &c., there may be acute suppurating bubo, without the trace of any chancre or chancroid. Again, bubo coming during the existence of a venereal sore may be due, not to it, but to caustic, or some other super- added source of irritation. 2. Bubo may arise during the existence of chancroid, from absorption of its venom, and M'ill almost certainly suppurate quickly. 3. Bubo depending on true chancre is usually multiple and indolent, "affording the sensation of one or more small circumscribed oval or almond-shaped bodies, perfectly distinct from each other, and unaccompanied by any redness of the skin which moves freely over the surface."* This bubo may be afterwards complicated with secondary infiltration of the skin over it, which may swell, and form an abscess or ulcerate, owing to filth, fatigue, abused mercuiial frictions, or other source of local irritation; and thus may be the seat of phageda^nic or other troublesome ulcerations. Symptoms.—Bubo of the penis.—A lymphatic vessel may inflame on the penis, feeling like a quill under the skin, and soon foiming an abscess and open chancroid sore. 2. Acute bubo pursues the course of acute abscess. There is shivering, pain, tenderness and swelling of usually one gland ; the skin becomes red, and points, and matter is discharged. If this bubo be the result of ordinary irritation it may rapidly get well. But in addition to the common suppuration, which in such cases takes place between the gland and the skin, there may * H, Lee, Lecture Assoc. Journal, Jan. 6, 1854.