FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 274 lame the patient and disgrace the surgeon." We must, therefore, treat separately, 1, of fracture of the neck of the femur internal to the capsular ligament; 2, of ft-acture of that part external to the capsular ligament; 3, of oblique fracture through the great tro- chanter ; 4, of fracture separating the epiphysis of the trochanter major; 5, of fracture just below the trochanter; G, of the shaft; 7, of the condyles. or fall the patient finds himself unable to stand, and complains of great pain, increased by motion, and principally seated at the upper and inner part of the thigh. The leg is shorter than the other;—the foot turned outwards ;—the heel rests in the interval between the ankle and tendo Achillis of the other leg: crepitus may be detected if the hand or the stethoscope be placed on the trochanter, whilst the limb is drawn to its proper length and rotated. When extension is discontinued the limb shortens again. The trochanter generally projects less than on the other side ; and if the foot be rotated by an assistant, it is felt to move in a * It is sometimes stated that the neck of the femur is commonly shortened in old persons, and sunk from the oblique to the horizontal postore; but it is doubtful whether this is the case, except when the joint has been affected with chrfynic rheumatic arthritis. In this disease, which often affects old bedridden persons, the acetabulum is expanded and surrounded with irregular bony- growths; the cartilage removed and replaced by porcellaneous deposit; the neck of the femur shortened so that the head is almost in contact with the top of the t^haft; the capsule thickened, with irregular growths of bone around it (which have sometimes been mistaken for a misplaced effort of nature to repair a fractured cervix); sometimes at the part where the capsular ligament is inserted, the bony texture is completely absorbed, and its place supplied with a ligamento-cartilaginous substance; appearances which have been mistaken for united fracture. Smith, op. cit,; Edwin Canton's Surgical and Pathological Observations, Lond. 1855. See page 256. r,jx (1.) Fracture of the cervix '''■'"jfK f^^o^is internal to the cap- W^'^r\ ^^^^ generally caused by '^'t'l'/f;}c. indirect violence; that is, by i^}:/>/j a slight force acting on the ^/''^/''<'i lower extremity of the limb, as happens in slipping off the curbstone; sometimes, how- ever, it is produced by falls or blows on the hip. It is very rare in persons under fifty; but very common in old people, especially old women ; because this part of the femur seems to suffer first and chiefly, from the atrophy and fatty degeneration which all the bones, more or less, ex- perience in advanced life.* Symptoms.—After a blow