606 DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. soda water, with a teaspoonfiil of the bicarbonate added, and other alkaline liquids, are also often of great service iu cases of no great urgency, arising from errors in diet. The muriated tincture of iron, in doses of vrix. every ten minutes, is an empirical remedy, Avhich the writer has often seen used. No one pretends to explain its modus operandi; and as it is seldom or ever given without the warm bath or other means, it is difficult to say what amount of benefit is really due to it. But if these means do not succeed, a catheter must be introduced ; or if the distension of the bladder be very great, it should be done at once, the patient being narcotized by chloroform. A silver catheter, of good size (8 or 9), may first be introduced. (This cut shows the sizes ^ 2 3 ^ s e OOOOOOOOO ot catheters and bougies adopted by Savigny and by most othet makers, ^,No. 1 being "125 and No. 9, '25 inch in diameter J The surgeon should well warm and oil it,, and pass it through the palm ot his hand, so that he may make sure that it is smooth and fit for use. 'J'he patient may either lie down flat, or stand with his back against a wall. The surgeon, holding the catheter in his right hand, raises the penis with his left, and introduces the instrument, with its concavity towards the left groin. Then he gradually raises it till it is perpen- dicular with the abdomen; and then the instrument ought to pass under the pubes into the bladder, whilst the handle comes down to a horizontal position. The instrument should be held lightly, and let make its own way, so to say, along the passage. The surgeon, if neces- sary, may draw the penis well forwards on it, so as to stretch the urethra, and prevent the instrument from becoming entangled. He should make the point slide along the upper rather than the lower sur.^ face of the urethra. On meeting with an obstruction, he should press against it, but very gently ; and by delicate manipulation for five or ten minutes, the stricture will in most cases be made to yield. The oiled forefinger of the left hand introduced into the rectum is a most use- ful help. Some surgeons prefer to pass the catheter without any stretch- ing of the urethra, using one hand only, and holding the catheter with the concavity at first turned downward till the bulb is reached; and then turning it with a sweep in front of the left groin till the point turns upwards. This turn is called by the French the " tour de maitre." If the penis be overstretched, the effect is certainly to narrow the diameter of the urethra, and to retard the catheter. On the upper wall of the urethra, about an inch and a half from the orifice, is a follicle, *' lacuna magna," rather larger than the rest of the " glands of Littr6," in which the point of a catheter may be caught. If the silver catheter does not pass, the surgeon may try a gum