52 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. holding a vast number of globules in suspension. Its usual specific gravity is 1"021—1*040; heat coagulates the albuminous elements of its serum; potass and ammonia convert it into a gelatinous mass. Chemical analyses* show that pus contains water (86*I per cent.), fat, extractive, and albumen. It also contains about 0*8 per cent, of salts; chiefly common salt, and muriate of ammonia. Fus Globules.—When these are examined under the microscope they are found to be opaque spheri- cal globules, apparently granulated like mulberries, but in reality smooth, as may be known by exa- mining their circumference. They measure from l-5000th to l-2000th of an inch in diameter ; some even are larger. They may be shown to consist of cell membrane, contain- ing nuclei, oil globules, and minute granules. If water be added, they imbibe some of it, and become larger, more transparent, and less granular. If acetic acid be added, it brings clearly into view two, three, or four nuclei; and renders the other parts transparent, or so invisible, that they seem to have dis- solved. Besides the globules, other smaller molecules are also found in pus in great abundance. Mucous Pus or Muco-punilent matter.—MviCws consists of a viscid matter coagulable by acetic acid and containing epithelium. Under inflammation, it may be mixed with serum, blood, fibrinous fiakes, epithelial casts, nuclei, and abortive cells and pus. + PURIFORM Fluid is a fluid formed ' by the softening down of a fibrinous ;.• exudation, without the development of real pus globules. It constitutes the . liquid yielded by carbuncles and un- •rz ^ healthy abscesses, by spreading ulcere, •■'V. -y "' find by the fibrinous exudations which occur in the lungs and elsewhere, when putrid fluids have found their way into the blood. It exhibits oil globules, shreds and fragments of tissue, granules, and possibly abor- * Vide Mayo, Med. Gaz., 19th Oct. 1839; Vogel, iiber Eiter und Eiterung, p. 35 ; Davy. op. cit. vol. ii., p. 468 ; Bonnet, Med. Gaz. vol. xxi.; Gueterbock, de Pure et Granulatione, Berol., 1837. f The uppermost group gives a pretty accurate idea of the appearance of pus globules magnified 400 diameters. The middle figures represent globules treated with acetic acid; the lowest represent the appearances when pus is partially decomposed or treated with liq. potassae. These figures were drawn from nature by Dr. Westmacott, under the superintendence of Dr. Johnson of King's College. X This cut represents puriform fluid from a softened lymphatic gland.