554 EEDUCIBLE HEENIA. There are some cases in which the common truss fails to keep up a rupture comfortably, and for these the surgeon should be prepared to recommend other instruments, which are, for the most part, the pro- perty of various individuals, and each of which has some peculiarity adapting it to particular cases. Coles's truss has a spiral spring acting on the pad. The MocMain lever truss has a simple belt passing round the body, thus dispensing with the usual circular spring ; and the pressure on the pad is effected by means of a strap passing under the thigh, and acting on a spring lever attached to the pad. Salmon and Odys self-adjusting truss has a pad revolving on a ball and socket. The Maidstone truss allows the pad to slide on the spring, so that the circumference of the instrument may be adapted to the varying size or movements of the body. Egg's truss is said to be made of old sword- blades : it is very strong, though not irksome, and requires no fastening. Adams's graduated pressure truss has two springs of different curves, by sliding which on one another the amount of pressure maybe varied. In Tod's truss the spring goes round the waist, and curves downwards to compress a pad at the internal abdominal ring. Newsons wire truss has a round wire, instead of a flat steel spring, which renders it less likely to be displaced. Trusses may have French pads, which are of an oblong-triangular shape, instead of oval, like the English ; or pads filled with air ; or with sand, which will retain any shape given to it; or may have springs going entirely round the body. Instead of a steel spring an elastic India-rubber belt may be used, such as are con- structed by Bouijeard. Dr. Arnott has devised a truss, in which^ by means of a wire, external to the steel spring, and capable of being tightened or slackened by a nut and screw, the amount of pressure can be regulated with the greatest possible nicety. Dr. Charles Edwards has invented one, in which the pad is capable both of revolving and of sliding on the spring. For children the India-rubber band and pad generally answer without a spring. A pad of hard polished wood is recommended by Mr. Dartnell. He also uses flannel instead of leather as a covering for the spring, as it can be washed.* The trusses devised by Mr. Woodf have been employed with much success in curing small herniae as well as in keeping up and preventing the increase of herniae for which an operation for radical cure has not been deemed advisable. These trusses are of four kinds, viz,, for inguinal rupture, oblique and direct; for crural, and for umbilical hernia. They are all based on a distinct principle, that of applying a flat and level pressure at the sides of the hernial opening instead of in the axis. Mr. Wood considers that the principle of a convex pad pro- jecting into and exerting its chief pressure in the centre of the hernial aperture is erroneous, and calculated to increase the size of the hernia by invagination, the longer the truss is worn. The truss pad for oblique inguinal rupture is of the shape of an obliquely curved hoi'se- * It is made by Spratt, of Brook Street, Hanover Square. D\: Charles Edwards's (of Cheltenham) is made by Weiss. Dartnell, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. t See Wood on Rupture Inguinal, Crural, and Umbilical, pp. 168, 224,