APPENDIX OF FOKMULiE. 813 told the writer that Sir H. Halford used to combine ginger or cap- sicum with steel, when it was " heavy " for the stomach. Ammonio-chloride. R. Ferri ammonio-chloridi gr. xx. ; tincturse zinziberis f5ij.; am- monise sesquicarbonatis ^j- 5 syrupi f^ss.; aquae destillatse f^vss. Misce. Dosis, f^j. tei- die. In debility, loith acidity and flatulence. The writer finds this the best preparation to allay the craving of drunkards. Mr. Newman Hall, father of the present eminent preacher, ascribes his reformation from intemperance to steel as a tonic. The ammonio-chloride, anciently Flores Martis, is not in the P. B. Citrate of Iron with Ammonia. R. Ferri ammonio-citratis (^m//ocA), 3ss.; ammoniac sesquicarbonatis jss.; tincturai cardamomi compositae, syrupi, singulorum f5iij, Aqute f^vj. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta ter die. In debility, vnth acidity and flatulence. Citrate of Iron for Children. R. Ferri citratis, gr, xij. (Bullock), syrupi aurantii, fluidrachmas duas; aquas destillataa f^iij. Misce. Dosis, f^ss. ter die. 13. Chloride of Iron Mixtm^es. R. Tincturse ferri sesquichloridi f5ij.; syrupi zinziberis ^j.; spiritus setheris nitrici f3ii.; aquas f^vij. Misce. Sumantur cochlearia duo magna bis die. There is no reason why medicine should be made more nauseous than is necessary; and patients describe the taste of the new solution and tincture of perchloride of iron in the P. B. as disgusting. On the contrary, the old muriated tincture of iron has a delicious ethereal perfume, and is the medicine to choose when an energetic and speedy action is desired. In cases of erysipelas and pyaemia, in which it is given in yery large doses, as fgj. every three or four hours, it passes through the alimentary canal, and completely deodorizes its contents. Bestucheff's nervous tiJicture, in which oxyde of iron, hydrochloric acid, and alcohol are exposed to the sun's rays and produce a solution of chloride of iron, ether, and alcohol, is the true type of this prepara- tion. Acetate of Iron. R. Liquoris ferri acetatis {Pharm. Dub.) fluidrachmam; aquse pimentas fluiduncias sex. Sumat ^ger partem sextam ter die. This is a mild and effective vegetable salt of iron, strongly recom- mended by Mr. Goddatxl of Christchurch. 14. Steel and Acid Mixture. R, Ferri sulphatis gr. xij.; acidi sulphuric! diluti f3j.: tincturas cardamomi composita) f^ss.; infusi rosa? compositi l'5vss. Misce, sumantur cochlearia duo magna bis vel ter die.