BRONCHOCELE. 521 presently. If the wound penetrates the trachea or larynx, it should be covered with a loose woollen comforter, or a layer of cotton wool, or, after the first week, with one of Jeffreys' respirators, if it can be nicely adapted. The patient should not be kept too low ; and if the pharynx or oesophagus is wounded, should be fed by a common, large- sized, elastic tube and bottle. But if during the inflammatory stage the attempt causes great irritation, it may be necessary to employ nutrient enemata merely. At all events, no tube should be passed through the wound for that purpose. The great thirst and dryness of the fauces, experienced in these cases, may in some measure be mitigated by sucking a wet rag, or, still better, a lump of Wenham Lake ice. If the patient find great difficulty in expectorating through the wound, he must be taught to close it partially by leaning his head forwards, and placing his fingers on it, whilst he makes an expiratory effort, so that he may expel the air with a sudden gust. In every stage of the cure, difficulty of breathing should be viewed with suspicion. It may arise from several causes. 1. If the wound is above the larynx, it may be caused by the epiglottis being detached from the tongue, and hanging down upon or irritating the rima glot- tidis, or by clots of blood collecting in the pharnyx. 2. It may be caused by an irregular and jagged division of the larynx or trachea, so that some pieces of the cartilage hang into the tube; or supposing the trachea to have been completely cut through, it may be caused by the aperture of the lower portion being overlapped by the upper. In these cases it may be requisite to employ sutures, but they should be passed merely through the cellular tissue around the cartilage, and neither through the cartilage nor the skin. 3. It may be caused by swell- ing of the mucous membrane of the larynx and ti'achea in the acute inflammatory stage immediately after the injury; or by chronic thickening of that membrane from the continued irritation of cold air, if the wound is very slow in closing. In the former of these cases, free antiphlogistic measures must be used; the latter must be prevented by using a proper position, so as to promote the approximation of the wound whilst it is healing. In either case it may be necessary to make a longitudinal division of the trachea to relieve the dyspnoea. 4. Another frequent cause of dyspncea is the passage of blood into the trachea, if the wound is prematurely closed, and especially if it is sewn up or covered with plasters. Even sup- posing the trachea not to be opened, great danger may result from closing a wound of the throat before bleeding has ceased, for the blood may accumulate in the cellular tissue, and coagulate, and compress the trachea. II. Bronchocele {Goitre, Derbyshire neck) signifies an hypertro- phy of the thyroid gland. There are two varieties: the common, which appears due to some quaUties of air and water; the exophthalmiG^ due to nervous ex- haustion. 1. Common Goitre.—Symptoms.—A soft, projecting, elastic tumour