CANCER. 123 not deliquescent, and like the chloride does not attack sound surfaces. The concentrated sulphuric or nitric acid, made into a paste with tow, saffron, sawdust, or asbestos, is an efficient though less manageable caustic; the concentrated solution of chloride of iron, the acid nitrate of mercury, the permanganate of potass, bromine, and various other caustics may be mentioned, but the sulphate or chloride of zinc appears the best. If it be desired to penetrate deeply into a large mass of cancerous tissue, it may be done in three ways,—by deadening the surface with chloride of zinc, and then cutting through the slough nearly down to the living part, and inserting more of the caustic into the incisions— or by puncturing and injecting a few drops of solution of chloride of ii'on, as is done for naevus—or by inserting into the diseased mass small lozenges or stylets composed of chloride of zinc, flour and water, baked till they are hard enough.* In the case of cancerous masses which are so adherent and extensive that they cannot be removed by the knife, and in which the skin is not yet ulcerated, we believe that puncture and the injection, or insertion just described, so as, if possible, to eradicate the tumour with as little destruction of skin as possible, is the best plan, if any plan of extirpa- tion be determined on. During the last ten years, a plan of treating cancer has risen, flourished, and decayed in London, by which the public were promised, not merely that local deposits should be removed, but that the disease should be eradicated from the blood. The means employed were, de- struction of the skin by nitric acid, and of the cancer by chloride of zinc, introduced into incisions made in the first slough. The chloride was mixed with a red root—the sanguinaria—which has some stimula- ting properties, but, so far as cancer is concerned, is inert. What the nature and results of this treatment were, so far as the writer has had the opportunity of learning, may be gathered from the following me- morandum of one case :— On May 15th, 1857, he saw a lady, ast. 46, wife of a clergyman ; childless ; fifteen years ago she struck the left breast; a lump ensued, slowly increased, and became of late very painful; a gland in the axilla was also enlarged and painful; she suffered severe pain in the tumours, and above the clavicle in the neck ; she had been seen by several sur- geons during the last five years, all of whom said that the case was not fit for an operation. In March, 1857, she put herself under the care of a gentleman who professed to ciu-e cancel-. On the 25th, a large portion of the skin of the bosom (including the nipple), and over the gland were destroyed by nitric acid ; after this, the slough was gently cut through, and various substances inserted into the cuts; the pain was most agonising, and brought on violent flooding ; she sat in bed, hour after hour, rocking herself in agony ; the discharge was very pro- fuse ; but an essential part of the treatment was that she was not * Med. Times, Feb. 7, 1857, p. 144. Maisonneuve, Clinique CMrurgicalc. Paris, 1863i p. xliv.