INDOLENT ULCER. 72 III. The Weak Ulcer has large, pale, flabby, and insensible gra- nulations rising above the margin of the skin, and showing no disposition to cicatrize. IV. The Indolent Ulcer has its surface smooth and glassy, and of a pale, ashy colour, like a mucous membrane. Sometimes, however, it displays a crop of weak fungous granulations. The edges are raised, thick, white, and insensible; the discharge scanty and thin. Such ulcers are often stationary for a great length of time; but from any slight cause of irritation, may enlarge rapidly by ulceration or slough- ing ; and even when they have made considerable progress in healing, the granulations and cicatrices that have been months in forming may perish in a few hours from some constitutional disturbance or local injury. Treatment.—The general rules are, to promote constitutional vigour by good diet and tonics, to excite the local action by various stimulants, and to support the venous circulation in the affected part. The following is perhaps the best plan of curing these ulcers. A number of pieces of lint, throroughly soaked in the nitric acid lotion, should be laid on the sore, and be covered with a warm soft poultice. These applications should be changed twice a day, and be continued till the discharge becomes healthy, and granulations begin to arise. During this time the patient should be confined to bed and be purged. Afterwards, when the surface is clean, the following mode of dressing may be adopted. First, some pieces of lint, saturated with the nitric acid lotion, or zinc lotion, or with some other stimulating substance, should be laid on the sore. Then strips of adhesive plaster, about 1^ inch wide, should be applied two-thirds round the limb, from an inch below the ulcer to an inch above it; and in applying each strip, the edges of the sore should be drawn together with a moderate degree of force. Next, a compress of soft linen should be placed over the plaster, and, finally, the limb should be well and evenly bandaged from the toes to the knee; observing that the bandage is to be applied most tightly below, and more loosely by degrees as it ascends.