GLAUCOMA. 429 pupi], 3. If no other plan succeed, an opening may be made in the cornea, through which it may be extracted by means of a small hook or forceps. Mr. Middlemoie has proposed a plan for removing such bodies through the sclerotic. There is great uncertainty of clearing the pupil of capsule by any other mode but extracting it, yet so dangerous has that operation been deemed, from the escape of the vitreous humour, which is almost sure to occur when previous operations have been done within the eye, that the extraction is seldom attempted. To meet this difficulty, Mr. Haynes Walton has introduced into practice a peculiar sort of forceps for the removal of the capsule. The instrument is no larger than a needle, so that the opening in the cornea need not be larger than neces- sary to allow of the exit of the strip of capsule to be removed, and all the objections to extraction are overcome. SECTION XII.—GLAUCOMA. Glaucoma, as it is now understood, means a disease which gradually involves every tissue of the eyeball, and, if it cannot be arrested, ter- minates in disorganization and total blindness. It occurs in an acute and a chronic form, and its victims are generally elderly people, of feeble and broken-down constitution. Acute Glaticoma comes on suddenly, v.'ith violent neuralgic pain in the eye, and throughout the ophthalmic branches of the fifth nerve. There is rapid loss of A'ision. Perception of light may be gone in a few days, or even in a few hours. The cornea is dull and steamy ; the iris, dull and slate-coloured, is bulged forward by posterior pressure against the cornea; the pupil is dilated and fixed ; the sclerotic discoloured and dusky, and traversed by large tortuous veins, purplish, or of a dull-red colour; the eyeball is of stony hardness. The extremely violent cases, in which vision is lost in a few hours, are separated into a class by Professor von Gifefe, as Glaucoma fulminans. It is very important to recollect that the outburst of acute glaucoma is generally preceded during a period of varying duration by premoni- tory symptoms: these are, rapidly increasing presbyopia, piismatic rings round the flame of a lamp or candle, slowly progressive contrac- tion of the field of vision, dull, aching pain ; increased tension, &c. To the last symptom very great importance is attached by Mr. Bowman.* Chronic Glaucoma.—In chronic glaucoma the disease proceeds slowly and insidiously. Pain, if present, is only occasional; the cornea be- comes very much flattened, and in a great measure loses its sensibility. If the eye be examined with the ophthalmoscope while the lens and humours are still clear, there will be found excavation of the optic disc, probably pulsation of the central artery, and sometimes small dotted hemorrhage in the retina. There is stony hardness of the eyeball; sooner or later the lens becomes opaque, and all the tissues more or less disorganized. * Brit. Medical Journal, Oct. 1862.