ARTIFICIAL ANUS. 546 VI. Artificial Anus signifies a preternatural communication be- tween the intestinal tube and skin. It may be a consequence of pene- trating wounds, of abscess or ulceration of the intestines, or of mortifi- cation of intestine in strangulated hernia, and it is sometimes pur- posely made by the surgeon in case of imperforate anus, in order to afford an exit for the faeces. The external opening is irregular, everted, and red, and the surrounding skin excoriated. The aperture in the intestines adheres by its margin to the peritonseum, so that extrava- sation into the abdomen is prevented. That portion of intestine which is immediately above the aperture, and that portion which is immediately below it, meet at the artificial anus at a more or less acute angle, and present two orifices ; one by which matters descend from the stomach, and another which leads down to the rectum. These two orifices are separated by a sort of crescent-shaped septum, formed by a projection of the mesenteric side of the bowel opposite to the aper- ture. Now it may readily be understood that the greater the aperture in the bowel, the more acute will be the angle at which the upper and lower portions meet, and the greater will the septum also be; and that, if the septum is large, it will act as a valve, and close up the orifice of the lower portion of bowel, causing any matters that come down the upper portion to escape externally, instead of passing into the lower.* The consequences of this affection may be, 1st, that the patient may die of starvation, from the escape of the chyle, if the aperture is near the duodenum. 2ndly, that a portion of the intestine may protrude and form a hernia; besides the constant disgusting annoyance occasioned by the escape of ftecal matter and flatus. Treatment.—If the affection is of recent origin, and especially if it is consequent upon strangulated hernia, the patient should remain in bed, and great care should be taken to keep the parts clean; and then, per- haps, the external aperture may contract and cicatrize. If the latter is very small, and if the passage between it and the bowel is of some length (a state of parts termed fcecal fistula), something may perhaps be done by compression, or by engrafting a piece of skin over the aper- ture ; or by making an oval incision in the skin on each side of the aperture, and bringing the outer edges of the incision together by means of needles and the twisted suture ; or by applying the actual cautery to the margin of the wound. But if the loss of substance in the bowel is considerable, and the projecting septum large, the chance of recovery is not great. A pad of simple linen or lint may be worn to compress the aperture, and prevent discharge from it, or sometimes a hollow truss with a leathern or horn receptacle, may be used with advantage. Enemata are useful in all cases. Moreover, a tent may be thrust into both internal orifices, in peral Fever; Griffin's Medical Problems; Holland's Notes and Reflections; Dr. Watson's Lectures ; and Chisolm's Military Surgery. * See the Cliapter on Artificial Anus in Lawrence on Hernia, and Dupuytren in Diet, de Med. torn. iii.