SQUINTING. 448 Thus, it is pretty frequently the precursor of acute hydrocephalus or convulsions in children; and when it is associated with dropping of one or both eyelids, and with unusual sleepiness, or torpor of the intel- lect, or faltering in the gait, some mischief within the head may fairly be anticipated. Treatment.—If the affection be recent, that is to say, of not more than a few weeks' duration, it may perhaps be removed or mitigated by judicious medical treatment, especially by purgatives, antacids, and tonics (F. 37), and by abstinence fiom study, and plenty of exercise in the open fields. Various devices have been proposed for strengthening and exercising the weak eye, by shutting up the sound one, wearing goggles, placing black patches on the nose, and so forth. But if the squint is of long standing and is habitual, and, above all, if there is any disparity in vision, very little, if any good can be done unless the in- ternal rectus muscle is divided. This is easily performed in the follow- ing manner:—The patient, if an adult, and manageable, sits in a low chair; if an unruly child, he should be quieted by chloroform and laid on a table. The instru- ments required are a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, a smooth slightly-curved blunt hook, and a speculum or retractor. Then the lids of the squinting eye being held apart by a spring retractor wire speculum, the surgeon, desiring the patient to look outwards, pinches up a fold of the conjunctiva with the forceps opposite the lower edge of the internal rectus, a little behind its insertion into the sclerotic. This is snipped with the point of the scissors; and next the subconjunctival cel- lular tissue is snipped through, so as to expose the glistening surface of the sclerotic. It must be remarked that this subconjunctival tissue is sometimes so thick as to be mistaken for the muscle. The aperture thus made should be quite small, only just sufficient fairly to intro- duce the blunt hook, which should next be thrust up- wards between the muscle and the sclerotic. Lastly, the tendinous insertion of the muscle, and the conjunctiva which covers it, are to be divided with the scissors. " In order," says Mr. Walton, " to secure effectually every portion of the tendinous expansion of the muscle, the hook should be passed a little below the level of the pupil in its oi-dinary state of dilatation, directed backwards to a sufficient distance, swept along the side of the globe, and its point made to project just a little above the level of the pupil." It should be the desire of the operator to cut no more of the conjunctiva than is required to insure the complete division of the muscle, and of this latter there cannot be the same certainty ex- cept the membrane be cut at the spot directed. Mr. Walton has lately brought the edges of the conjunctival wound together by one or two fine sutures passed through the very margin of the edges. The sutures do not cause the least ii-ritation. They drop out about the third or