THE GLANDERS. 185 Symptoms in the Horse.—It may occur in two forms, which, however, are merely manifestations of the same disease in different parts. When seated in the lymphatic system, it is railed/arc;/—when in the nasal cavities, glanders. But these two forms are essentially identical: the pus of either of them will reproduce the other; and farcy always terminates in glanders, if the animal live long enough, and its progress is not arrested. Farcy begins with hard, cord-like swellings of the lymphatic vessels and glands, called farcy-buds. These slowly suppuiate, and form unhealthy fistulous sores, which discharge a copious thin sanious matter. If suffered to proceed unchecked, farcy leads to glanders, although more frequently the latter arises first. Glanders.—Its symptoms are, a continued flow of discharge from one or both the nostrils (generally the left), which discharge is at first thin and serous ; then thick and glairy, like the white of egg; but after a time becomes opaque, purulent, bloody, and horribly offensive, retaining, however, its viscidity. Soon after it commences, an enlarged gland may be felt under the lower jaw adhering to the bone. The next things noticed are one or more ulcers on the Schneiderian mem- brane, having the sharp edges and scooped-out character of chancre ; these spread widely and deeply, and lead to caries of the bone. Then the lips and eyelids swell, and the conjunctivas suppurate; and the external parts of the face may become gangrenous, and the animal may die in a few days with putrid fever; or he may perish more slowly;— the disease spreading to the lungs, and death being induced by cough, emaciation, hectic, and the formation of unhealthy abscesses in the lungs and all over the body. The distinctive symptoms, according to Youatt, are the continuousness of the discharge, and the adherence of the enlarged submaxillary gland.* Symptoms in Man.—This disease may appear either as glanders or farcy ; either of which may be acute or chronic, (1.) The acute glanders begins with all the symptoms that indicate the absorption of a putrid poison. There are general feelings of indis- position, lowness of spirits, and wandering pains; followed by fever, furred tongue, great thirst, profuse perspirations at night, gi-eat pain in the head, back, and limbs, and tightness of the chest. After some days these symptoms increase : there are severe rigors and delirium, often of a phrenitic character; the perspirations become more profuse, and sour and offensive, and are attended with diarrhoea of a similar character. Then diffused abscesses appear in the form of red swellings about the joints, especially the knees and elbows—the patient com- plains of heat and soreness in the tlu-oat; the tongue becomes dry and brown, the respiration more oppressed, and the fever assumes a decidedly low malignant character. Next (perhaps a fortnight from the commencement of the illness, sooner or later in different cases) a dusky shining swelling appears on the face, especially on one side, * Blaine, op. cit.; Youatt on the Horse.