DISEASES OF THE URESTAEY ORGANS. 618 7. Perinmal Section.—Professor Syme has recommended this opera- tion, not merely for cases in which incision is commonly considered necessary, that is, for cases of impervious and complicated stricture; but for others, in which, although an instrument can he passed, the stricture is excessively irritable, and resists the common treatment by dilatation, or contracts again perpetually, and is wearing out the patient's health by pain, rigors, and other signs of irritation, and in which the patient's state of health is such as to render an operation on these parts safe, and the residue of his life worth enjoying. The patient having been put under the influence of chloroform, and held in the lithotomy position at the edge of a bed, " a grooved director slightly curved, and small enough to pass readily through the stricture, is in- troduced and confided to one of the assistants. The surgeon, sitting or kneeling on one knee, now makes an incision in the middle line of the perin£Bum or penis, wherever the stricture is seated."* It should be about an inch and a half long, and extend through the skin and tex- tures external to the urethra. The operator then taking the handle of the director in his left, and the knife, which should be a small straight bistoury, in his right hand, feels, with his forefinger guarding the blade, for the director, pushes the point into the groove behind the stricture, and runs the knife forward so as to divide the whole of the thickened texture at the contracted part of the canal. A full-sized catheter should be retained for twenty-four hours aftei-wards. The cases in which this operation is allowable are specified above. The amount of fatality at- tending it must be difficult to be estimated precisely: it will be less in private than in hospital practice, and in proportion as the patients are free from renal disease. Outof 219 cases collected by Mr. Thompson, only 15 deaths occurred within two or three months of the operation, and of these, 9 were hospital cases, which proved fatal by pyaemia. This is the greatest danger: hsemorrhage seems not to be so great a source of risk.f 8. Lastly, supposing a case of old complicated gristly stricture, with complete retention from inflammation or spasm, the surgeon must estimate whether it might not be safer on the whole to puncture the bladder by the rectum, and so to give a period of tranquillity to the diseased parts, than to run the risk of a large wound in im'per- * On Stricture of the Urethra, by James Syme, F.R.S.E., Ediu., 1849. t See the very fair and impartial summary of the value of this operation in Mr. H. Smith's worii on Stricture, p. 252; also in Mr. Thompson's work, p. 302.