437 THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. roid are attended always with more or less danger to sight, according to the locality and amount of the effused fluid. The retina may be seen, floating as it were, or lying in folds over the pait, the bright-red cho- roid of course being hidden from sight. As the effusion is over or near the macula lutea, so is a more unfavourable pi ognosis to be feared. The retina is often anemic and even atrophied. M. Desmarres describes an affection which he calls oedema of the retina. It is doubtless afl'ected in secondary syphilis. The Choroid, as may be anticipated from the vascularity of its struc- ture, is most importantly involved in chronic changes in the deep-seated structures of the eye; and although we are by no means disposed to draw any strict line between the inflammation of the different tunics of the eye, as existing independently of each other; yet this structure shows changes so marked that the effects of choroiditis may be safely classed under one head. The principal affections of the choroid aie hypersemia; when, instead of its usual somewhat orange-red colour, it becomes of a bright scarlet, the vessels are enlarged, and the pigmental striations are more or less indistinguishable. The absorption of the pigment from some parts causing white patches, and its redeposition in others forming the black deposits so often met with, are signs of the atrophy and disorganization of this important structure. These black deposits may take place at any part of the fundus, but they are most frequently met with around the edge of the optic disc. They are always situate between the choroid and retina. Atrophy of the choroid when occupying the situation of the macula lutea, is always attended with considerable impairment and confusion of vision, and is of course iri-emediable. Plastic exudations from its surface, pushing the retina forwards, are sometimes seen. The appear- ance of an eye which has been the subject of chronic choroiditis is most striking. The black, white, yellowish, and red variations of colour have been described by Desmarres as the Choroide tigree. Effusions of blood from the surface of the choroid may take place, and probably many of the deposits on.its surface have had this origin. Colloid degeneration has been described by Donders.* An affection often met with in short-sighted pei sons, and involving both the choroid and sclerotic, must be noticed. The sclerotic is thinned at the posterior part of the eyeball, and bulges backward into a conical shape, carrying the choroid with it, and thus altering the antero-posterior diameter of the eye. It has been denominated sclero-choroiditis posterior. It generally takes place near the optic disc, and appears as a semi-lunar white patch, which more or less com- pletely surrounds the optic disc. That the letina is perfect over this white patch is evident from the retinal vessels being continued over it in their normal size and distribution. The Macula Lutea may be the seat of morbid deposits, haemor- rhages, and plastic exudations. Small vessels sometimes enter about * Archiv. fiir Ophthalmologie, 1855-6,