103 FIBRO-PLASTIC TUMOURS. these, the warty and condylomatous growths of skin; and 3rdly, the outgrowths of scars, the cheloid tumours as they are named." \Vhen occurring as distinct tumours, they are felt as soft, elastic, painless masses. Their growth is usually quick, thougli a sudden increase of size may be due to serous infiltration, rather than to increase of tissue. They may attain a very large size ; may accidentally slough or ulcerate, but can be radically cured by excision. IV'. The Fir.iiO-PLASTiC TuMOUR of Lebert (sarcoma) is composed apparently of plastic lymph permanently arrested in its development into areolar tissue. There are two varieties of naked-eye appearances which are often combined in the same specimen. J. The soft variety has a great resemblance to encephaloma, being quite as soft, though more elastic, and not so readily torn; yielding, when cut, a clear serous, and not milky juice; and having altogether the character of flabby granulations, such as are found surrounding carious bones. 2. The harder variety, or i-oal sarcoma, is of firm consistence, like that of muscle, or of carnefied lung, or rather of kidney; but not so firm as the fibrous tumour; on a section it appears homogenous, and finely grained ; its colour varies from reddish yellow to a deep fleshy red ; these tints alternate in patches, and are mixed with spots of ecchymosis ; it is often intermixed with fibrous bands, and contains many blood-vessels, t The microscopic elements of the fibro-plastic tumour are—1. Fibro- plastic cells, spherical or ovoid: with pale cell-wall, well-marked nucleus, and nucleolus in the form of a small dot. 2. Cells elongated into oat-shaped or pyriform bodies ; pointed, or branched, and losing their nuclei. 3. Free nuclei, some elongated ; and small globules. The^e elements are depicted at jiage 24. 4. Mother-cells ; large oval * ^Myeloid cells from a fibro-plastic tumour of the upper jaw, removed by Mr. W. Fergusson, 24th Nov. 1855. In colour and consistence it exactly resem- bled human kidney. t Imperfect areolar tissue, and large cells containing fat globules from a fibro- gelatinous tumour of the calf of the leg, drawn from nature. See a description of the same tumour, Pathological Trans,, vol. v. plate xvii.