254 TKEATMENT OF FRACTURE. This is composed of laj^ers of lint or old linen, or of bandages soaked in thick mucilage of starch or dexti-ine, or of mixture of equal parts of powdered gum arabic and precipitated chalk. These, when dry, form a remarkably light but firm support, A dry bandage should be put on first of all; then layers of wadding to fill up all hollows ; then layers of bandages well soaked in starch. But how is the starched bandage to be got off, or loosened, if too tight? In order to provide for this, a strip of stout tape should be laid lengthwise on the limb before the starched bandage is put on. By lifting up one end of this, the blunt point of a pair of scissors may be got under the bandage without wounding the skin; so that the starched bandage can be ripped up and taken off, as a complete mould; then, if damped with boiling water, it can be softened, and put on again more comfortably. Plaster of Paris is an admirable material, from its faculty of quickly setting. The limb should first be bandaged with strips of paper: outside this, long thick layers of linen well thickened with plaster of Paris and water; extension should be kept up till it has set. Wounds may be left uncovered. Splints may also be made of gutta-percha, softened in boiling water, moulded to the shape of the limb, and then trimmed with scissors, and hardened by cold water: by mixing the gutta-percha in a softened state with a proportion of one-fifth of the sesquioxide of iron, it is made more manageable in working, and sets sooner and harder and more resistant to heat than when in its unmixed state. Or of wire gauze, per- forated zinc, and a hundred other substances, of which perhaps paper cut into strips, soaked in paste, and laid on in layers, is one of the most convenient. We think it right also to mention the straw splints, made by filling a linen bag, of the size of the splint required, with mibroken wheat straw, such as is used in thatching, the straw being cut to the length of the limb, and the open end of the bag then sewn up. This is both splint and pad in one, and may often be of great service in country and military practice.* The remaining treatment of simple fracture must be conducted on general principles. Cordials, to restore the patient from the shock of the injury; the catheter, if he cannot make water, which is common after fractures of the leg ; aperients, if necessary ; cold lotion, if agree- able; and leeches, very rarely, to allay excessive inflammation, must be employed at the discretion of the practitioner. But of all ]-emedies for allaying pain and irritation, preventing spasms and starting and dis- placement of the bones, and enabling the patient to bear tranquilly the penance of long confinement to bed, nothing equals opium, in grain doses, once, twice, or thi'ice a day; given without the patient's know- ledge, and mingled, if need be, with colocynth, to prevent consti- pation. The apparatus and bandages must, if necessary, be loosened when * See some remarks by Mr. Tuffnell, in Kauking's Abstract, vol. iii. p. 240.