AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. 621 be stimulated to granulate by injections of arg. nit., or by passing a heated wire into it; and the external orifice should be occasionally touched with potass, so as not to allow it to heal before the whole track is closed—otherwise fresh abscesses will form. In extreme cases the urethra must be laid open, as before directed. For loss of substance, an incision may be made on either side, and the edges be vivified and brought together by suture. Sometimes there is a blind fistula in perinseo; that is, a small narrow fistula, opening into the urethra, but not externally. It is occa- sionally inflamed and tender; and may be felt as a small tumour in the perinreura ; perhaps the size of a horse-bean. It is attended with more or less discharge from the urethra. The treatment consists in laying the tumour open, and dilating any strictures that exist. Sometimes a fistulous communication forms between the urethra and rectum. This may be known by air, and sometimes liquid fgecal matter passing through the urethra. It is to be treated by dilating the urethra, so that the urine may pass freely ; and then a heated wire may be introduced into the fistula from the rectum, in order to close it by the adhesive inflammation. SECTION IV.—OF SOME OTHER AFFECTIONS OF THE MALE URETHRA. I. Contraction of the Urethra following injuries, such as blows on the perinseum, must be ti'eated in the same way as perma- nent stricture. It usually results in the most intractable form of stricture. II. Contraction of the Orifice of the urethra may be a con- genital affection, or may be caused by the cicatrization of ulcers. It must be counteracted by the daily passage of a short bougie, otherwise it may produce all the evil consequences of stricture further back. If the contraction is very great, and causes retention of urine, one of Anel's probes, a common probe, and a dii ector may be introduced in succession, and then, when the bladder is emptied, the orifice must be dilated by a slight incision downwards. III. False Passage.—This may be produced by using too small a sound, and pushing it out of the urethra, or by the misuse of caustic bougies. There is nothing to be done for the false passage ; but the stricture, which was the origin of it, must be treated either with the metallic sound, or by keeping in a small catheter. When the surgeon suspects that he has pushed an instrument out of the right passage, he ought to leave the urethra untouched for at least a week, when the false passage will frequently close and become obliterated. This usually takes place if a proper passage be kept open for the urine. Injudicious meddling with a small catheter will, however, cause the false passage to remain pervious for a long time. IV. Haemorrhage from the Urethra may be caused by the rude introduction of bougies, or by injuries from without, or by the