399 DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. other signs of congestion in the head, which should be treated by bleed- ing, purgatives, and blisters. Sometimes it arises from debility, and may be removed by tonics. Sometimes it is an accompaniment of that form of amaurosis which arises from organic cerebral disease ; and is attended with dimness of sight, a sluggish dilated pupil> and more or less strabismus : the eye being turned outwards and downwards because the external rectus and superior oblique are the only muscles un- paralysed. If it occurs without any assignable cause, and persists, notwithstanding the employment of every measure calculated to im- prove the health, a portion of skin must be tali:en out from the eyehd, so that the lid may be brought under the influence or action of the occipito-frontalis muscle, and be elevated by it. This must not be done, however, if, as Mr. Walton remarks, double vision should be caused by the eye being thus brought into use. This author says further, that the portion of skin to be removed must be taken near the eyebrow, else the lid may be everted, and should be dissected neatly out with a scalpel, so that there may be no scar. IX. Ancyloblepharon.—Union of the edges of the lids, when complete and congenital (which is very rare), may be removed by an incision ; when partial and consisting of a junction of the lids near one angle, which is sometimes caused by cicatrizing ulcers, it is incurable. X. Symblepharon signifies a union of the lid to the globe, fol- lowing some accident that has caused ulceration of both—the introduc- tion of lime, for instance. It is irremediable, if the adhering surfaces are extensive. Very slight adhesions (fraena) may be divided ; but the raw surfaces are too apt to adhere again. To prevent this, Mr. Walton divides the band vertically through its entire thickness, and brings the edges of each side severally together by sutures. XI. TUMOUP^ of the lids may be of many varieties. Warts, enlarged cutaneous follicles, and vascular tumours, or ncevi, are to be treated the same here as elsewhere. Cysts of hydatids may grow beneath the loose fold of conjunctiva which passes from the inside of the eyelid to the surface of the eyeball. If that fold be divided longitudi- nally, the hydatid will escape, or may be extracted by a hook or for- ceps. There is one small tumour found here, and called, par excellence, the tarsal tumour, the true nature of which the writer has examined, in concert with Mr. H. Walton. It consists of one of the acini of the Meibomian follicles, filled by thick sebaceous matter. If it pi ojects on the inner surface of the lid, it is readily recognized as a small darkish speck, which may ulcerate and discharge its contents. If it chance to project on the outer surface of the so-called tarsal cartilage (for it must be observed that the Meibomian follicles are not, as is usually said, on the inner surface of the cartilage, but are contained within its very substance), then the obstructed follicle, having no means of emptying itself, forms a small tumour, which increases by the addition of fibro- plastic matter to its exterior. Such tumours may be felt under the skin and orbicularis, attached to the outer surface of the tarsal carti- lage. On everting the lid, a shght depression is noticed within, A