PHLEBITIS. 358 has a very small tendency to inflammation, and does not exude lymph as a serous membrane does, was proved by Mr. Lee, by means of the experiment of cramming with wadding a portion of the jugular vein of an ass, from which the blood was excluded by ligatures. A similar piece of wadding was introduced into the peritonaeum. After forty- four hours the ass was killed; when there was found to be abundance of lymph covering the wadding in the peritonagum ; none on that in the vein. This experiment shows that fibrine found on the lining membrane of inflamed or injured veins is deposited from the blood. 2. Mr. Lee has also shown that pus, and other morbid fluids, mixed with healthy blood, cause it to coagulate; that if any such fluid were to find its way into a wounded vein, the blood ought, by coagulating, to seal up the vessel, and prevent it from being carried into the circulation. 3. When a vein is filled with coagulum, thus produced by ad- mixture with morbid mattei', and containing it; if the poison is such that it ought to be eliminated, the areolar tissue around inflames, and becomes the seat of suppuration and abscess; the coats of the vein be- come thickened and softened; and the clot they contain is discharged by means of the abscess thus formed. 4. If the coagulum be disturbed; or if the poison be such as to hinder coagulation ; or if, through some defect in the blood, firm coagu- lation does not take place; or if the coagulum once formed softens down, so as to allow the poisonous fluid to mix with the circulating blood, that general contamination of the blood to which the name Pyoemia is given may follow. 5. Emholism.—Lastly, pathologists are becoming more aware of the mechanical conditions under which local disease of any one part may pro- duce disease elsewhere, or constitutional disturbances. If the clots, mixed more or less with decomposing animal matter, which form in the veins at the site of wound or local inflammation, be disturbed, and mix in small shreds with the whole current of blood, they may induce clotting in the right side of the heart, obstruction of small branches of the pulmonary artery, with consequent lobular pneumonia, and universal blood-poisoning. But if a large clot be disturbed bodily, it may pass through the right side of the heart and block up the pulmonary artery, partially or entirely; producing sudden death, or death after a short struggle. But as Dr. Benjamin Ball has shown, these cases are not quite hopeless; and Dr. Richardson's experiments point to ammonia, from its solvent power over blood-cl(»ts, as the most probable remedy.* Sudden breathlessness, with free and loud entrance of air into the lungs, with great disturbance of the heart's action, coming suddenly in any case where blood may have stagnated and formed a clot in large veins, as in phthisis, are the symptoms. * See Benjamin Ball snr les Embolies Pulmonaires, Paris, 1862 ; Cohn, Klinik der Embolischen Gefasskrankeiten, Berlin, 1860; a Summary of the Subjects in Medical Times and Gazette, 1862, vol. i.; case of Embolism by R. Druitt, Med. Times, 1863, vol. ii.