669 HYDEOCELE. serum, forming a cylindrical tumour, extending up to the abdominal ring, to which the name congenital hydrocele is applied. On raisin^ and compressing it, the fluid is slowly squeezed into the abdomen, and slowly trickles down again afterwards. This case is liable to be complicated with a congenital or encgsted hernia, to prevent which, and to close the communication with the cavity of the peritoneum, a truss should be worn. Sometimes the transparency and fluctuation of hydro- cele are absent in consequence of a thickening of the tunica vaginalis, which may be known, according to Brodie, by noticing that the thickened membrane forms a projection along the epididymis, whei'eas in solid enlargements of the testicle the projection of the epididymis is lost. Sometimes the tunica vaginalis is partially adherent to the testicle. Sometimes loose cartilages are found in the sac; they are easily removed by a slight incision. Treatment.—The remedies for hydro- cele are threefold. 1. Strong discutient lotions (F. 118, &c.), which sometimes assist the cure in children, but cannot be depended on for adults. 2. Evacuation of the serum, or the palliative cure. This may be accomplished by a puncture with a common lancet, or trocar; but the method most commonly adopted at present, consists in making a number of punctures with a grooved needle, so that the fluid may escape from the tunica vaginalis into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, whence it is readily absorbed. This palliative treatment is always sufficient for children, but very rarely so in the case of adults. 3. Radical Cure.—This is performed by injecting certain stimulating fluids, or by introducing setons or other foreign substances into the tunica vaginalis, in order to excite a degree of inflammation sufficient to destroy its secreting faculty. It miist not be forgotten, however, that this 7'adica! cure is totally inadmissible if the testis is diseased, or if the hydrocele is complicated with an irreducible hernia, or if the tunica vaginalis preserves its communication with the abdomen. Mere thickening from previous disease is, however, no objection. Operation.—The surgeon grasps the tumour behind, and plunges a trocar and canula into the sac, pointing the instrument upwards, so * Hydrocele. From King's College Museum.