TREATMENT OF THE DROWNED- 519 kept open by a gag, whilst the fragments, which had been displaced, and had even pierced the mucous membrane of the fauces, were restored to their proper position. Ice may be applied outwardly if haemorrhage is very profuse, or inflammation violent. The trachea must be opened if requisite to provide for breathing, and the stomach-pump if the patient cannot swallow. VI. Scalds of the Glottis, through swallowing boiling water or corrosive fluids, produce the ordinary symptoms of laryngitis—suffoca- tive cough, and dyspnoea. Treatment.—Leeches, ice to the throat, opiates or chloroform to tranquillize, and tracheotomy if required. VII. Hanging may destroy life in three ways. 1. By dislocating the neck. 2. By compressing the trachea, and suspending respiration. 3. By compressing the jugular veins, and inducing apoplexy. Treatment.—Artificial respiration, bleeding from the jugular vein if the face be turgid, dashing cold water on the face and chest, and a current of galvanism passed fi'om the nape of the neck to the pit of the stomach, so as to excite the diaphragm.* VIII. Drowning, Treatment of.—Let the head hang down for two seconds, to let any water run out of the mouth: then lay down the body with the head raised; put two fingers into the mouth and draw the tongue well forwards; wipe out the mouth and throat; strip off wet clothes; wipe the face, nose, and eyes dry; and set people at work to rub the rest of the body dry. If breathing has nearly but not quite ceased, endeavour to rouse the circulation and the respiratory acts by friction of the entire surface, occasionally dashing cold water on the face, neck, and chest, and then wiping quite dry with a warm towel; and by tickling the nose and fauces, to excite sneezing, cough- ing, or vomiting. If breathing should not be thoroughly restored by these means, it should be set to work artificially. In some cases it may be expedient to draw blood from the arm, or jugular vein, in order to lessen the load of the heart; and this opera- tion (or leeches) may be required for congestion of the head or chest, after the immediate peril has passed away. Enemata of brandy may be of service in the early stage, whilst the heart's action is faltering. Hot bottles should be put between the thighs and under the axillse, and the temperature of the limbs be maintained by hot flannels, &c. A case is related in which life was restored by the most persevering friction, which was kept up for eight hours before the humanity of the Hyoid Bone, Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., Philadelphia, vol. xiii., 1833, p. 250; Stethoscope, Richmond. Vir. U. S., June, 1855 ; Pathological Trans., vol. i., p. 199 ; Fracture of Thyroid Cartilage, Brit, and For. Med. Rev., N.S., vol. viii., p. 272. See also Gibb, on Throat, 2nd edition. * For the manner of applying galvanism in these cases refer to Part V., Chap. II.