385 SPINA BIFIDA. in front of the femoral vessels. Sometimes it reaches rs low as the knee ; sometimes passes backwards to the nates; sometimes through the pelvis and sacro-sciatic notch to the nates; and sometimes it has discharged itself through the bladder or rectum.* It all cases of doubtful diagnosis the evidence oi' disease of the vertebrae, and of rigi- dity of the psoas muscle, or of inability to hop on the leg of the diseased side, or to extend it fairly on the pelvis, or to turn the toes inwards, should be looked for. The diagnosis is further alluded to in the Chap- ters on Aneurysm and Hernia. Treatment.—The first indications are, to procure absorption of the matter, to keep up the health, and to remedy the spinal disease. If the tumour enlarges, and threatens to burst in spite of these measures, it must be treated in the manner directed for large chronic abscess. IV. Acute or Subacute Inflammation of the spinal cord may be caused by blows, by twists, or other injuries, and may occur durino- acute rheumatism ; moreover, it not unfrequently attacks persons who are greatly exposed to cold and wet, such as labourers and prostitutes. It is not uncommon in hot climates in the form of peculiar diseases, called barbiers and beriberi. Fever, violent pain in the back, and com- plete paiaplegia, with loss of power over the rectum and bladder, are the symptoms. The treatment must consist of bleeding or cupping; calomel to affect the mouth, and subsequently blisters and warm baths. In subacute and chronic cases the iodide of potassium ; with colchicum or alkalis if indicated by the state of the urine; or the bichloride of mercury with tincture of bark, F. 87. V. Spina Bifida, or hgdrorachitis, is an affection in which the spinous processes and laminse of some of the vertebrse are cleft or defi- cient. The spinal membranes, deprived of their ordinary support, yield to the pressure of the sub-arachnoid fluid which they contain (which also is secreted in unusual quantity), and bulge out, forming a fluctuating tumour in the middle line of the back. Pathology.—This affection evidently has its origin in the earliest stage of foetal existence, and depends on an arrest of development of the neural arches of the vertebras, and generally of the lumbar and sacral. It is found, on dissection, that not merely the spinal membranes are distended, but that the nerves may have very important connexions with the sac, which is usually formed by a distension of tJie folds of pia-mater and visceral aracihnoid, investing the branches of the cauda equina—below the termination of the cord proper. This is well illustrated by a preparation in the St. George's Hospital * See Stanley, op. cit., p. 331. Mr. Stanley points out the diagnosfs between the psoas abscess and the iliac abscess; which latter is a collection of matter in the cellular tissue between the peritonfeum and the fascia and iliaca, or between that fascia and the iliacus muscle. It generally arises from cold, strains, or falls, or from general debility; sometimes from spinal disease, but it is not so regularly connected with the last cause as psoas abscess is. It generally attacks adults, and often women after parturition. It usually points above Poupart's ligament, near the anterior superior spine of the ilium; and the difQculty of extending the thigh, so constant in psoas abscess, is absent. D 2 C