INFLAMMATIOX. 27 and swelling; to which ought to be added, impaired function of the part inflamed. Besides, there is feverishness with every true acute inflammation. SECTION II.—ANALYSIS OF LOCAL SYMPTOMS. 1. Pain or dis-en.se is sure to ensue when anything in the animal economy goes wrong, and the varieties it presents in inflammaUon require careful study. Thus (a) it may vary with the local cause which has produced it: thus patients talk of cutting, burning, stabbing pains. Every idiopathic inflammation also has its own kind of pain. Boil or carbuncle causes a ditfei-ent pain from that of phlegmon. 6. Then the pain will vary with the part inflamed; for each part has a set of sensations peculiar to itself; the bones and ligaments ache; the skin smarts or burns; an inflamed pleura, when stretched, feels as it' torn or stabbed ; the inflamed ear hears unnatural sounds. c. Inflammatory pain is aggravated by preternatural irritability, or receptivity of impressions; thus tenderness is created:—unusual reflex actions also are excited by impressions conveyed to the spine, and spasms are excited, which are so painful a feature in conjunctivitis, croup, and dysentery. d. The intensity of the hyperasmia causes the throbbing of the ves- sels to be painfully felt; particularly in inflammations of dense, un- yielding parts, or of parts confined by fascia. e. Distension by exudation causes intense pain in the like cases. /. Pain may be felt at a distance, along the course of nei-ves irritated. Thus the testicles ache in irritation of the bladder. Similarly, pain mav be felt along the course of lymphatic vessels and glands if they are impregnated by the inflammatory exudation. g. Lastly, pain may be absent in slight cases. Moreover, it must be remembered that pain is a subjective symptom, and exists in the consciousness of the patient; and though the conditions for it exist, it may not be felt if the nerves are severed, or the brain stupefied by disease, alcohol, or narcotics. 2. The heat of inflammation is partly a sensation, and chiefly felt iu inflammations of surfaces. Hunter believed that as an inflamed part receives more blood, so it is hotter than other parts; but yet not hotter than the mass of the blood. Thus supposing that the heat of the entire mass of blood be raised, the inflamed Y>^vt, if external, really be hotter than neighbouring parts, but not than the mass of the blood. On the other hand, Simon* has shown, by a delicate set of ex- periments, that the heat of venous blood proceeding from an inflamed part is greater than the heat of the arterial blood going to it: there- fore that there is a source of heat in the part itself. This is probable, d priori, from the active processes carried on in it. 3. The redness is a consequence of the hyperemia, and its appear- ance depends, in some degree, on the natural arrangement of the ves- * Holmes' Surgery, voL i.