418 DISEASES OF THE IRIS, to be tender, the lymph will generally be found to break up and gradu- ally disappear, leaving the pupil clear. In debilitated or scrofulous subjects, and in tedious cases, tonics, such as bark, cod-liver oil, or iodide of potassium may be given w^ith the mercury. Turpentine in drachm doses, F. 74, has been recommended in iritis instead of mer- cury ; but its efficacy admits of doubt. 3. The pupil should be kept well dilated by means of a filtered solu- tion of one scruple of extiact of belladonna in an ounce of distilled water. But the most elegant way is to drop into the eye a solution of the sulphate of atropine (gr. i. ad. ^i. aquse distill.). Stramonium and hyoscyamus have the same effect, but in a much less degree. 4. The pain must be relieved by nightly doses of opium, and the application of poppy fomentation to the eye, and the rubbing in of the unguentum opii to the temple. In the rheumatiG iritis the secretions of the liver and bowels should first be well cleared out by calomel with warm aperients; then the hyd. c. creta in very small ,doses twice daily, with colchicum, alkalies, and purgatives, and counter-ii-ritants, are the best remedies. Pediluvia containing mustard should be used every night. The same plan of treatment will serve for the gouty iritis, if such a disease should be met with. II. Synechia Posterior, adhesion of the iwea to the capsule of the lens ; Synechia Anterior, adhesion of the iris to the cornea; and Atresia Iridis, or closure of the pupil,—three consequences of organi- zation of lymph from protracted iritis,—may be partially removed by mercury, if recent, but are irremediable, except by operation, if of long standing. But belladonna should always be applied; because if a very small portion of the pupil is by chance unadherent, it may be di- lated, so as to afford a very useful degree of vision. III. Myosis—a preternaturally-contracted pupil—is sometimes met with in persons accustomed to look at minute objects, and is attended with great obscurity of vision, especially in a feeble light, because the iris is unable to dilate. To give repose to the eyes, and attend to the health, are the only available indications of treatment: Mackenzie says that belladonna is hurtful. IV. Mydriasis signifies a preternatural dilatation of the pupil, which does not contract on exposure to light. This state, as is well known, is readily produced by belladonna and many other narcotico- acrid poisons ; it is caused also by any injury of the brain affecting the tubercula quadrigemina, as in apoplexy and compression of the brain ; and is often an attendant of confirmed amaurosis. But sometimes it seems to depend simply on a derangement of the nerves supplying the iris, without diminution of the sensibility of the retina ; and this form of it may also be attended with ptosis ; as a further evidence of paralysis of the third nerve. Sometimes it depends on gastric irritation and general debility, and is lessened as the health improves. If the retina is sound, which will be known by the perception of light, and by vision being improved by looking through a small round aperture in a