ENTOZOA AND PARASITES. 172 quantities are required. Vomiting of bile seems to be a favourable symptom and effort at elimination, and may be treated by more brandy and by a mustard poultice to the epigastrium. If the patient cannot swallow, spirits and ammonia may be injected into the stomach and rectum ; and if the breathing flags, it must be kept up by galvanism or artificial respiration. A7'semc, in doses of a grain in solution every half-hour, for five or six doses, is a remedy which has proved successful ;* but spirits and ammonia are less hazardous. Parts that are swelled should be well nabbed with liniment of am- monia: if abscesses form, early incisions will be requisite. SECTION III.—ENTOZOA AND PARASITES. I. The Guinea Worm.—Dracunculus, or Filaria Medinensis, is a cylindrical thread-like worm, but sometimes as thick as a crow-quill, and several feet long. It is endemic in Africa, India, and other hot countries, whence persons often return to England with this pest about them. The worm appears, whilst exceedingly small, to penetrate the skin and effect a lodgment in the cellular tissue, where it remains dormant for sometime, and gradually increases in size till it can be felt as a little tumour, or perhaps as a cord-like ridge under the skin, feeling like a varicose vein. At last a very painful boil forms, which breaks, and allows the animal's hetid to protrude. Often, at this time, if injured, a considerable quantity of milk}^ fluid exudes fi'om it, which, on examination, is found to be full of small filarise. If the case is neglected, violent inflammation and abscesses ensue; to prevent which the animal must be carefully extracted entire. If the head does not protrude, a cut should be made across the track of the animal, which should be gently lifted up, and then a small roll of plaster be put under it, round which it should be carefully wound, day after day, till it is extracted. Extreme cleanliness, and the application of assafcetida, are said to act as preventives.f II. The Chigoe {Pulex Penetrans) is a minute insect, abundant in the West Indies, which penetrates the skin of the feet, and forms a little cyst beneath it, in which it deposits its eggs. When the cyst is fully formed, it may be of the size of a pea, and is of a bluish colour. The symptoms are a violent itching. The treatment consists in extract- ing the bag containing the creature and its eggs, which operation is dex- terously enough performed by the negroes with the point of a needle, and the cavity left is filled with tobacco ashes. If the bag is broken in the extraction, so that the young chigoes escape, violent inflammation is the result. III. The ECHINOCOCCUS.—This is a minute gregarious animal, in- habiting a cvst, filled with a watery fluid, which is commonly known by the term hydatid. " The cyst of the echinococcus," says Mr. Busk, * A letter to T. Chevalier, Esq., on the effects of arsenic in counteracting the poison of serpents, Med. Chir. Trans. 1813, vol. ii. p. 396. f See a paper by M. Maisoniieuve in the Lancet for 1845, vol. i. p. 152.