GLAUCOMA. 430 Pathology.—The pathology of glaucoma has been carefully inves- tigated by Professor von Grsefeand by Mr. Hulk, who arrive at nearly similar conclusions. Professor von Graefe says: "1 consider acute glaucoma to be a choroiditis (or irido-choroiditis), with diffuse imbibi- tion of the vitreous body (and aqueous humour), and in which increase of the intraocular pressure, compression of the retina, and the well- known series of secondary symptoms, are produced by the increased volume of the vitreous humour." Treatment.—Until within the last few years, chronic glaucoma was considered as beyond the reach of treatment; abstinence from ex- ertion of the eye, and attention to the general health were recommended as palliatives. In acute glaucoma, leeches, cupping, mercury, opium, &c. relieved the pain and sometimes cut short the paroxysm ; but the result was always the same : each attack left the vision more impaired, and sooner or later it was totally lost. In 1857 Professor von Grsefe described a new operation which he termed Iridectomy, and by which he maintained that the abnormal tension of the-eyeball is completely and permanently removed, and the disease arrested and cured. Since its introduction this operation has been extensively tried in this country and abroad, and has excited much discussion. As it consists merely in removing, after a peculiar fashion, a small portion of the iris, its modus operandi is not evident; hence it is still strongly opposed by some eminent surgeons. The extensive experience of others, however, has led them to be satisfied with the results, even though they could not fully explain how they were arrived at; and it certainly seems that even a more formidable operation would be justifiable in such an intractable and destructive disease. It is now established, in the opinion of the great majority of surgeons, that iridectomy is advisable under the fol- lowing circumstances:—■ In the Premonitory Stage, when the intermissions are no longer complete, when the exacerbations are frequent, the tension permanently raised, the field of vision contracting. In such cases, if the operation be performed befoi e structural changes have taken place, complete success may be expected. In Acute Glaucoma, when there is a fair quantitative perception of light. The sooner the operation is performed the better, as in severe cases, destructive changes take place with great rapidity. When per- formed early, under favourable circumstances, permanent recovery may be expected; when delayed, the prognosis varies according to the ex- tent to which degeneration has taken place. In Chronic Glaucoma patients seldom apply until considerable dege- neration of tissue has taken place. This, iridectomy does not profess to remedy ; but, according to the condition of the eye, we may expect im- provement to a variable amount, and, at all events, arrest of the disease, with retention of what sight remains. Those who wish to study this very important subject more fully will find a translation of Von Grgefe's papers in the Sydenham Society's volume for 1859; Mr. Hulke's paper in the Med. ChirurgicalTrans-