627 ENLARGED PROSTATE. next section ; and occasional fits of pain or congestion by leeching and hot batlis. The surgeon must take care that the bladder is regularly emptied, and if not he must introduce the catheter at intervals to get rid of the residual urine. The catheter should be long; its curved portion about a quarter of a circle whose diameter is 4*5 or 5 inches. The handle should be well depressed between the legs as the point is entering the bladder, in order that the point may l ide over the projec- tion. The finger also may be introduced into the rectum to guide it. A small gum catheter which has been kept a long while on an iron wire of the proper curve, may be riseful. If the prostatic urethra be twisted to one side, a very flexible elastic gum or india-rubber catheter of full size, ending in a tapering point with a small knob to it, will be found very useful in finding its way through the devious passage into the bladder. It should be passed with a twisting motion so as to give a spiral course to the point. A silver catheter, with a very short abrupt curve, is recommended by Coulson. In order to empty the bladder completely, it may be necessary to tu]-n the patient on his hands and knees. In any long-neglected case tlie urine may be drawn off in small quantities at a time, and the strength be well supported with tonics, wine, and plenty of nutriment. Radical remedies for producing absorption of the tumour, such as mercury, the iodide and bromide of potassium, and certain mechanical arrangements, have Iteen proposed. But in the present state of know- i ledge, it is not desirable to use any such remedy in any way that shall ] interfere with the patient's health and comfort. \ V. Complete Retention of Ukine from enlargement of the ! prostate. In this case, if there are inflammatory symptoms, cupping from the perina?um, the hot bath, and opium are indicated. The catheter should be passed if possible. If, however, the catheter cannot be passed by the natural route, the surgeon, guiding it with his left forefinger in the rectum, may thrust it through the projecting part of the gland into the bladder, or he may use a lance ted stilette. But if this cannot be done, the last resource is puncture of the bladder; by the rectum, if possible ; if not, above the pubes. VI. Calculi of the prostate are composed, according to Dr. G. Bird, like other calculous concretions on mucous membranes, of phosphate of lime mixed with triple phosphate, and may be deposited either in the dilated urethral canal of an enlarged piostate, or in the ducts and cells of the gland, or in both. The most remarkable instance of prostatic calculus on record is related by Dr. Herbert Barker, of Bedibid, to