DISEASES OF THE BONES. 245 SECTION V.—NECROSIS AND EXFOLIATION. The term necrosis, although signifying the death or mortification of bone generally, is yet usually restricted to one form, in which part of the shaft of a cylindrical bone dies, directly from injury, or else from violent inflammation, and is enclosed in a case of new bone. The term exfoliation signifies necrosis of a thin superficial layer, which is not encased in any shell of new bone. I. Necrosis is a frequent consequence of inflammation of the shafts of long bones in children, especially of the femur and tibia. It more frequently attacks bones or parts of bones of compact tissue, than of spongy. Yet sometimes a small portion of the cancellous tissue in the centre of the head of a long bone, as of the femur or tibia, becomes necrosed, with great detriment to the neighbouring joint. Necrosis of the lower jaw from the fumes of lucifer matches, will be noticed in the Chapter on Diseases of the Face and Mouth. Pathology.—The bone dies ; but its periosteum and the suiTounding cellular tissue, if healthy, together with the articular ^ extremities of the bone, and its medullary membrane —any contiguous healthy parts in fact — effuse lymph, which speedily ossifies, forming a new shell around the dead portion, and adhering to the living bone above and below it. The dead portion (techni- cally called the sequestrum) generally consists of the circumference of the shaft only, and not of the entire thickness; for the interior of the sliaft seems to be atrophied and absorbed after the death of the ex- terior. The inside of the sequestrum is usually rough, as if worm-eaten by the absorbing action of contiguous granulations. In the majority of cases the epiphyses, or articular extremities, are fortu- nately unaffected. After a time, if the sequestrum is removed by art or accident, the newly-formed shell contracts, its cavity is abolished, and it gradu- ally assumes the shape and function of the former bone. Symptoms of Necrosis.—After acute inflamma- tion, the bone remains permanently swelled; and the apertures which were made for the discharge of matter remain as sinuses, from which many sensi- tive, irritable granulations shoot. These sinuous apertures in the skin correspond to holes in the shell of new bone (technically called cloacce). They usually form above and below the sequestrum, or enclosed portion of dead bone; and if a probe be passed into them, the sequestrum may be felt loose * Necrosis of sliaft of tibia; partial formation of new bone; following upon previous caries of the head of the bone. From St. Mary's Hospital Museumf