GUN-SHOT INJUKIES OF THE 148 Treatment.—Perfect rest, and the avoidance of all excitement. The bowels should be freely opened by purgatives, and the patient kept on low diet. Fracture of the skull without depression.—Cases of this nature are of frequent occurrence, but are of far more serious importance than the fore- going class of injuries. They are usually accompanied with considerable contusion or laceration of the scalp. The symptoms which such an injury produces are uncertain: in some instances the patient is rendered in- sensible immediately by the blow, while in others he is apparently but little affected by it at the time of its infliction. The wound should be carefully examined luith the finger, to ascertain if there is any de- pression. Often, when merely a fissure can be detected in the external plate of the skull, an extensive stellated fracture may exist in the inner table. This is usually referred to a greater brittleness of the inner table, but Mr. Erichsen has shown, by reference to the case of a man shot through the head from the mouth, that the external table may be more extensively fractured than the internal one, when the ball impinges on it from within. The chief reason seems to be that the ball in passing through the first table met with in its course has its velocity so much diminished that, in accordance with the usual law before referred to, the aperture of exit from the bone is larger than that of entrance into it. The external plate may, in some cases, be grooved by a ball, im- parting to the touch the sensation of a depressed fi acture. Theprognosis in all these cases is necessarily unfavourable, yet very many patients will recover perfectly. The external table may exfoliate and healthy granulations and perfect cicatrization may follow. In unfavourable cases extensive suppuration beneath the scalp may come on, or the inner table of the skull may die, and abscess be- tween the dura mater and bone, with its concomitant evils, may destroy the patient. Treatment.—If the case is clearly one of simple fracture without depression, but little medicinal treatment is required. Cold applica- tions should be kept to the head, and the bowels regularly opened, if necessary, by purgatives. Perfect rest should be strictly enjoined, and all means of excitement avoided. If, however, abscess be diagnosed beneath the inner table, it should be evacuated by the removal of a portion of bone with the trephine. The period at which urgent symp- toms set in after the injury will assist the surgeon in the formation of his opinion. The occurrence of severe rigors with head symptoms coming on from fifteen to thirty days after the injury, would give rise to a grave suspicion of the formation of pus. Fracture of the skull with depression.—The symptoms of such inju- ries are so various, that it is impossible to lay down any correct laws to guide the surgeon in his diagnosis. In some cases the indications of compression of the brain are strongly marked, while in others the patient, when first seen, appears but little affected. If symptoms be urgent, and there be much difficulty in arriving at a satisfactory conclusion, whether there is depression or not, the wound