650 LITHOTEITY. der neither irritable nor paralysed, but capable of holding five or six ounces of urine, and of expelling it. The gi'eat danger of the operation is mechanical injury to the blad- der. The great aim should be gentleness. It is generally best not to use chloroform unless the patient much wishes it. The operation is not generally painful; if so, it should be cut short. The patient should be placed on his back on a couch, with the head on a pillow, the knees gently raised and supported, and a little apart. The pelvis must be raised above the level of the shoulders ;—-about two inches under ordinary circumstances: but four to six inches if the pros- tate be much enlarged. The object is to get the stone away from the neck of the bladder, which is the part most liable to injury ; much fur- ther away, of couise, if the prostate be enlarged, otherwise it cannot be reached at all. " The centre of the cavity and space beneath it," says M]'. Thompson, " form the area of operation." The bladder should contain from four to six or eight ounces of water, and it usually suffices to desire the patient to hold it for a couple of hours before the operation. The cases in which it is most desirable to inject water, are those of atony and flaccidity of the bladder, so that it hangs in folds instead of being equally round. The instrument, warmed and oiled, is now to be most gently intro- duced, and it must be passed fully into the bladder. The blades must he coaxed almost into the bladder before the handle is lowered. The next step is to seize the stone. There are two ways of doing this, by bringing the stone to the instrument, by opening the blades—depress- ing them into the fundus of the bladder, and getting the stone to roll between them ;* 2. To apply the instrument to the stone, so as to seize it with certainty, without doing more than rotating the instru- ment in the neck of the bladder. This is neater and safer. The rules for exploring the bladder so as to seize the stone are most minute and precise. When the stone is fairly grasped, the screw or other mechanical force employed should be made to crush it. Rules are given for finding and seizing the fragments, which of course fall perpendicularly into a very limited area, and perhaps two or three may be seized and crushed at the first sitting, which, however, should not exceed three or four minutes. At the end of the operation it must be seen that the blades aj-e entirely closed, and not choked by detritus, while the instrument is withdrawn. The subsequent parts of the treatment are these. First, all pain, which is often severe, must be allayed by opium, administered by the mouth, or in the form of enerna or suppository, F. 101, 174. Hip- baths, barley-water and other demulcent drinks, and alkaline medicines may be used with the same intention. The patient should keep in the recumbent position, that the fragments may not fall on the neck of the bladder. The operation must be repeated at intervals, till every fragment is * Brodie, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxviii.; F, C. Skey, on the Merits of the Two Operations for Stone, Lend., 1854.