494 TOOTHACHE. a painful process, the cavity may be again dosed with creosote, till it ceases to discharge. Then it may be stopped by some gutta percha and silica; and lastly, comes one of the neatest processes of scientific dentistry. A fine hole may be bored through the gum into the pulp cavity. Should any discharge foim in that cavity, it will drain out of this aperture, and thus a tooth with the pulp destroyed may continue useful for years. A great deal may be done yet, to abridge the sufferings of children, by looking after caries of the milk teeth. These should be stopped by some varnish on wool to protect them from the food. There is a prejudice against extracting any of the first set of teeth in children, however carious, on the supposition that the jaw might become contracted, and the permanent teeth crowded. Mr. Tomes tells the author that this fear is groundless. These teeth certainly should not be extracted needlessly : but it is better to do so than to allow them to cause much pain, or gum-boils; or to tempt the child to bolt his food from the pain of chewing it. Every case in which teeth decay with rapidity, should be looked upon as requiring medical treatment; and in particular the admin- istration of cod-liver oil, steel, bone-dust, &c.: F. 201. V. Toothache.—(1.) Inflammation of pulp. When the tooth- pulp has been laid bare, it is liable to injury from food which may be forced right down into the fang, or from hot, or cold, or acrid liquids; and will inflame likewise from cold, errors in diet, or anything else that disorders the general health. The pain is most agonizing; the tooth becomes exquisitely tender ; then it rises in its socket from infiltration of the soft tissues there; the periosteum and gum swell and inflame, and if the case goes on, suppuration occurs in the socket and outside it, and an abscess forms. Treatment.—If the tooth is useless it had better be extracted at once ; if likely to be useful, the cavity should be cleared of foreign substances, and then be treated with creosote as above. If the patient is feverish, and the tongue foul, a dose of calomel and colocynth, broth diet, and warm fomentations will do good; so also will washing out the mouth with a tumbler of hot water containing a teaspoonful of bi-carbonate of soda. There aie other measures too, such as a leech ; an incision of the gum on either side of the tooth, down to the bone; solution of tannin in ether, or of camphor in chloi'oform, or of alum in nitric ether; the use of pellitory chewed, &c. 2. Irritable gum.—The gum between a decayed tooth and its neigh- bour, may become spongy and swelled, and excessively sensitive ; giving rise to a very wearing kind of toothache; and causing excruciating pain if a portion of the food happens to be pressed down upon it. This may be reheved by a deep incision through the swollen gum, and the use of tannin gargle, of pellitory chewed, and of aperients, F. 34, 35. 3. Neuralgia—Whether it occurs in teeth that are entirely sound, or partially carious, is to be distinguished by its occurring in pa- roxysms which come and go suddenly, in more or less regular intervals.