DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. 327 the general principles are clear. Reduction must be effected as soon as possible, and for this purpose the patient may either be laid on the injured side, with the knee and hip bent, or on the back, with the thigh raised, and knee bent. Then, whilst an assistant steadies the knee, the surgeon must grasp the instep with one hand, and the heel with the other, and make extension (aided by pressure on the head of the tibia), till he has restored the natural shape of the parts. Then the limb must be put up with a splint on each side, in the same manner as a fracture of the lower part of the leg, taking care to keep the great toe in its proper line with the patella ; and it may be slung, or may be put on its side, according to the judgment of the surgeon; and the starch bandage applied, after swelling has subsided, according to circumstances. Chloroform may be administei-ed to render reduction more easy, and opium in regular doses afterwards, to prevent displacement by twitching and spasm. Compound Dislocation of the ankle-joint is by far the most fre- quent example of that kind of injury. If the wound in the integument does not heal by the first intention, the joint inflames ; suppuration occurs in about five days; much of the cartilage is destroyed by ulcera- tion ; at last the wound is filled with granulations, and the patient recovers a tolerably good use of the foot in from two to twelve months. The first thing to be done is, to wash away all dirt with warm water; to remove any shattered pieces of bone gently with the fingers, and then to reduce the bone to its place; slightly enlarging the wound in the skin, if necessary, in order to effect this without violence. If it is very difficult to return the end of the tibia, or if it is fractured obliquely, or much shattered, or stript of periosteum, it is better to saw it off; as the patient will have quite as good use of the Umb afterwards. Then the external wound should be closed with a bit of lint dipped in the patient's blood, or covered with collodion, and the leg be secured with a tailed bandage placed on a Macintyre splint, or two of Pott's side splints, if the situation of the wound will allow, and be wetted with an evaporating lotion. Care must be taken not to let the foot be pointed, nor be turned to either side. The remaining treatment is the same as that of compound fracture; and the rules which are given as to the necessity of amputation are the same in both cases, XI. Dislocations of the Foot.—The most important of these are the dislocations of the astragalus, which may be separated from its connexion with the os naviculare and os calcis in various ways. Sometimes it is thrown inwards, so as to I'est on the inner surface of the OS calcis; and in this case, there appears an unusual projection below the inner ankle, and a corresponding depression below the outer one, and the whole foot seems displaced outwards. Sometimes it is thrown outwards ; and then the foot seems to be displaced inwards. If these dislocations are simple, reduction should be immediately at- tempted by extension, and chloroform will be needed; perhaps the pulleys, for the reduction is often a work of difficulty; but patience and good management will usually succeed. Chloroform and opium