717 CHLOKOFORM. quickly and entirely eliminated from the system, that there are in most cases no ill effects afterwards ; none of the checked secretions for which opium is, justly or unjustly, so often blamed. Hence, in violent pain and spasms, especially in colic, in spasmodic asthma, and spasmodic cough, dyspnoja, dysui-ia, dysentery, dysmenori hoea, and almost every other compound of dvs, in hysteria and convulsions not depending on fulness of the nervous centres, this remedy may be resorted to. In the violent colic of intants, for example, the sagacious physician, instead of letting the patient shriek itself to death, whilst he is waiting for the effect of remedies, will, by this vapour, stop the pain, which is the element of danger, and remov^e the causes of the illness radically at his leisure." Increased experience compels the writer to say, that although his former opinion stands good with regard to cases of sudden painful ill- ness, in previously healthy persons, yet that chloroform is not always eliminated quickly; and that it often leaves an amount of sickness, headache, and feverishness, which are great drawbacks to its use in cancer, neuralgia, and dysmenorrhoea, cases in which the writer has tried it; and for which sether and camphor, F. 206, is to be preferred. See Tetanus. Cases in which it is inapplicable.—It is generally considered better not to use chloroform in cases of extraction of cataract, in elderly per- sons. There are two reasons for this. First, lest the vomiting which often happens afterwards might force out the whole contents of the eye- ball. But ]\Ir, Haynes Walton has shown that this accident may be prevented if the proper amount of gentle pressure be exerted on the eyelids by means of strips of plastei'. Another more serious objection, is the loss of appetite and digestion which chloroform may occasion in aged persons. In operations on the jaws, or fauces, there is no serious fear that the blood will run into the glottis and sufJbcate the patient, provided the patient's head be turned on one side repeatedly to let it out freely. Full narcotism should be induced before these operations, and it should be kept up as well as it can by inhalation at intervals from a sponge wetted with cold water, on which twenty minims of chloroform have been poured. The cases in which on general princi- ples it should be given with hesitation, are those of chronic organic disease of the brain, atrophy or dilatation of the heart, and embar- rassed circulation through the lungs. But since the shock of an ope- ration is in itself extremely formidable to patients so aflected, it is probable that a cautious administration of the ansesthetic might dimi- nish the danger instead of adding to it. Epileptic patients are liable to have their fits induced by the inhalation. It should never be given to a woman without a witness. Moreover, it should never be adminis- tered by any person to himself, nor yet be used as a plaything or a luxury. If pain is bearable, and not injurious, let it be boi ne. Accidents from Chloroform.—The commonest is vomiting, which, however, is of very little consequence. If it occur during the inhala- tion, the patient's head must be turned to one side to let the vomited matter escape. If very troublesome afterwards, a little brandy and