87 TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. properties of the blood, down to Dr. Richardson.— Vide F. 1, 2, 3, 4, &c. Question of Amputation.—The rule formerly given was, to wait till the gangrene is arrested, and a line of demarcation is formed, other- wise the stump may become gangrenous. And this rule still holds good in mortifications arising from constitutional causes; in that caused, for instance, by loss of blood or fever. But even after the line of demarcation has formed, it is necessary to take care that the patient has vigour enough to bear the loss of blood which must in some degree necessarily ensue. Sir A. Cooper mentions a case in which a mortified leg was separating favourably by itself through the calf, when the projecting bones were sawn off, with a view of ex- pediting the process. A few granulations were accidentally wounded, and the trivial haemorrhage that ensued was fatal.* But it will be proper to amputate without waiting for the line of separation, if the mortification be local as to its cause ; as, for instance, in mortification of a limb fi-om severe compound fracture or from injury or aneurism of the large arterial trunks. This practice is sanctioned by Larrey, Guthrie, Brodie, S. Cooper, Lawrence, Velpeau, James, and Porter of Dublin. We may add, that amputation seems to be justi- fiable as a last resource whenever there appears little or no disposition to limit gangrene, and whenever it spreads rapidly. " Where gan- grene," says Mr. Guthrie, " is rapidly extending towards the trunk of the body, without any hope of its cessation, the operation is to be tried ; for it has certainly succeeded, where death would in a few hours have ensued." f SECTION II. ON SOME VARIETIES OF MORTIFICATION. I. Mortification from Obstacle to the return of Venous Blood.—This form of mortification mostly affects the lower extremi- ties of persons who labour under dropsy from diseased heart, and it is always preceded by great oedema. It may occur primarily, or may be a consequence of inflammation, which if it attacks (Edematous parts is always liable to terminate in gangrene. In the former case, the skin of the (edematous limb, having become pale, smooth, glossy, and tense, assumes a mottled aspect of a dull red or purple colour, from distension of the subcutaneous veins. " Then at some part where the congestion is greatest, or where the skin is less yielding, as over the tibia or above the malleoli, phlyctenge or large bullae are formed by the effusion of serosity, either alone or mixed with blood, under the cuticle. When these burst, the cutis beneath presents a dark-red or brown colour, and very soon is converted into a dirty-yellow or ash-grey slough. After the spread of the mortification to a given extent, inflammation * liectures by Tyrrel, vol. i. p. 237. t Op. cit. p. 132; Velpeau, Lecture in Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 32. X Carswell, Illustrations of Elementary Forms of Disease, Lend. 1837.