INGUINAL HEENIA. 573 thereto is the pressure which may be produced by the screw. The part should be examined every day, by raising the cover, and the pres- sure equaHsed, if need be, by a little cotton wool. The patient must be kept in bed, with his knees and scrotum supported. About the fourth or fifth day, inflammatory redness and swelling are seen around the needle punctures; in another day or two, suppuration follows, and serous fluid begins to ooze from the invaginated skin. Now the instrument may be removed, and it will probably be found, by pulling at the skin of the scrotum, that adhesion has taken place firmly; if not, the instrument may be replaced for two or three days longer. If the pressure is too severe, or unequal, or continued, of course sloughing may occur. " About six or seven days may be allowed," says Mr. Wells, " from the period the instrument is applied, and from seven to fourteen more, till cicatrization is complete; so that the patient must be prepared for a three weeks' confinement to his room. After this, a light truss with a weak spring, and large, well-stuffed pad must be worn for about three months, during which time the patient must abstain from violent exercise." This operation has now been performed in a large number of cases in England, but has not been followed by such a proportion of perma- nently successful cases as to enable the surgeon to reckon with any degree of confidence upon its results, although in some cases, when it has failed of complete success, it has enabled a truss, heretofoi-e use- less, to be worn with benefit. Mr. Wood has shown that the hinder part of the canal remains unobliterated, and that the rupture generally returns by slipping behind the invaginated tissues, and then unfolding the invagination. (Wood on Rupture, p. 84.) Treatment by metallic stitch.—Mr. Spencer Wells, in August 1858, in a case in which Wiitzer's operation had been performed, and had been followed by some bulging, and a threatening of a return of the hernia, pushed a fold of scrotum up to the external abdominal ring, and passed a handled needle along his finger, and for an inch behind the external oblique tendon. The needle was made to penetrate the skin, and draw back an iron wire, each end of whicii was secured by a skein of cotton. After seven days the wire was withdrawn, and it was found that some amount of thickening had been produced: the truss was applied again, and a perfect cure followed. To Mr. Redfern Davies, of Birmingham, is due the credit of apply- ing a simple form of operation to the femoral and ventral hernia. For instance, in a case of femoral hernia, after it has been returned, the finger or fingers are made to carry a plug of invaginated skin and sac as far as possible into the femoral ring. Then a curved tube, contain- ing a needle, is carried on the finger well through the ring ; the needle is made to pierce the double integuments, and to bring through a silver wire suture; one, two, or more such sutures are passed, according to the size of the rupture ; the ends are passed through small pieces of vulcanized India-rubber, and are secured by split shot clamped upon