70 VAEIETIES OF ULCERATION. Predisposing Causes.—^The Tissues most disposed to ulceration are the skin, and the mucous and synovial membianes. The areolar tissue ulcerates very easily, but muscles, blood-vessels, and nerves, very slowly ; so that they often appear to be as it were dissected out in spreading sores, by the destruction of the areolar tissue around them. Tendons and ligaments are also very slow to ulcerate owing to their physical qualities; but cartilage, bone, and the cornea are in certain constitutions extremely liable to it. The serous membranes very rarely ulcerate primarily.* The Constitutions most liable to ulceration are those which are weak. Anaemic maid-servants have ulcers of the stomach ; scrofulous children have ulcers of the skin, cornea, and synovial membrane; and feeble old persons give way in the legs. The parts most disposed to it are those whose circulation is most weak and languid ; such as the legs: and more especially if the veins be varicose. Tall persons are said to be more frequently affected with ulcers of the legs than the short. Defect of nervous influence predisposes parts to ulcerate or mortify. Ulcers of the cornea have followed injury to the fifth, and ulceration of the hand has followed injuries of the median nerve.f (See p. 34.) Exciting Causes.—In constitutions or parts predisposed to it, the slightest irritation may be sutHcientto excite ulceration. In the healthy it may be produced by the continuous application of some irritant, such as continued pressure, or contact with poisonous secretions. Ulcers piospiit manv varieties, which may be classed under three heads. 1. //rn/ini/.—Tliey may be in a state tending to reparation; as the healtiiy nicer. 2. Stationary,—Their surface may have an imperfect form of organisation, under which they may be incapable of healing, though they are not necessarily spreading ; the weak and in- dolent ulcers aie examples. 3. Spreadmg.—They may be under the influence of the destructive process which formed them originally, and which is still causing them to spread; as the phagcda;nic. SECTION II.—the varieties OF ULCERS. I. The Healths or Healing Ulcer is nothing more than a healthy granulating and cicatrizing surface. The granulations are small, numerous, florid, and pointed, and yield a moderate secretion of healthy pus. The edges are smooth and covered with a white or bluish semi-transparent pellicle, which is gradually lost on the margin of the granulations. In favourable cases such an ulcer may cease to granulate and suppurate, and may fill up with moist lymph, which rapidly cicatrizes. Treatment.—The only treatment required will be a little dry lint, * There is a specimen of ulceration of peritonseal coat of stomach. Organs of Digestion, 76, Mus^e Dupuytren, Paris. t See cases quoted by Paget. Med. Gaz. N.S. vol. iv. p. 1023. Paget's Lec- tures by Turner, 2nd ed. p. 32. Hilton, Lectures on Rest, p. 192. Brown Sequard. Lectures on Central Nervous System. Philadelphia, 1860.