GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE 154 spleen, and kidney appear more fatal than those of the hollow viscera ; and wounds of the stomach and large intestine more fatal than those of the small. Symptoms.—The position of the wound is a great gnide as to whether the abdominal cavity has been opened; occasionally a discharge of reddish serum indicates a wound of the serous cavity. If the omentum or intestines protrude, the diagnosis is plain. If the intestinal canal be distended at the time of the injury an escape of flatus or bilious matter or fa?ces from the wound will indicate the nature of the injury; but it is often impossible to tell by a mere examination, and the surgeon is obliged to tound his diagnosis on the symptoms present. Great col- lapse is the first striking symptom ; if the viscera have been wounded, it is very severe, indeed it is a common cause of death in wounds of this region. When death does happen from shock, it is usually found that the intestines have been largely ruptured, or there has been intei-nal haemorrhage. Frequent vomiting is a symptom which is common in wounds of the intestine, particularly if the injured part be high in the alimentary canal. There is usually pain in the abdomen, and frequently passage of blood by the stools. The after symptoms are referi-ible, 1st, to peritonitis, and 2nd, to the organ which may liave been wounded; e. g. the passage of blood by the urine, or the escape of urine from the wound, or of bile, or of any other special secretion. If the intestine be wounded to a small extent, and not pro- truding, the pi-essure of the adjacent viscera is usually sufficient to prevent extravasation. Treatment.—Having carefully examined the wound without much manipulation, place the patient in bed. He should not be hurried from the state of collapse, unless it be so severe as to threaten a fatal termi- nation. Should it be ascei tained that the intestine is wounded, do not search after the wound with the view of sewing up the opening; for if the wound is only to the extent of two or three lines, the protrusion thi'ough it of the mucous membrane is usually sufficient to arrest for a while the flow of the contents until lymph seals up the opening. If larger than this a stitch is usually required. The protruding bowels must be carefully cleansed and returned as soon as possible. The suture used must be the continuous or glover's stitch, including only the pei-itoneal and cellular coats with the serous surfaces turned in, and opposed to each other, so as to adhere by efl'used lymph. The knot must be cut off short, and disposed of between the stitches, so that the end shall fall into the interior of the gut when the included parts slough or ulcerate. The sewn part should be kept as near to the external wound as possible. Occasionally an artificial anus is the result. Few cases occurred during the Crimean war in which sutures were used, and those were fatal. Large and repeated doses of opium are imperatively called for to re- lieve the pain, and to arrest the peristaltic action of the bowels; it serves also to quell the mental anxiety of the patient. The question of general bleeding must be determined by the surgeon. He should re-