GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE 156 (3rd.) Fractures are often caused by large stones, which have been struck and set in motion by round shot, or iragments of shell. Frac- tui-es produced in either of these three ways are always compound and very generally comminuted. The conical ball may occasionally pass through or lodge in the bone without fracturing it, but as a rule, it breaks it into many fragments, or else, in passing through, it splits it for some distance up the shaft. In the passage of the ball or fragment of shell, large vessels or nerves may be divided, adding much to the severity and danger of the injury. 4th. The whole limb may be torn away by a round shot or shell, and be left hanging merely by the integuments. Such cases are very fatal. They produce fearful collapse, from which frequently the patient never rallies. Treatment.—Simple flesh wounds, if not severe, require but little surgical aid. Foreign bodies should be removed, and the bullet or shot, if possible, and the parts covered with a little water-dressing. If, however, they should slough or ulcerate, they must be treated accordingly. Fractures.—If the fracture be a simple one, caused by a spent shot, without much injury to the superficial or deep tissues, Ihe limb should be put up in a splint, and every endeavour made to save it; but if there is severe contusion and destruction of the deep structures, ampu- tation should be resorted to. It should be remembered that in field practice the military surgeon does not enjoy the same opportunities for treating fractures which the civilian does. Men who have been wounded have to be transported to the secondary hospitals for further treatment, or perhaps carried some distance on a march; and as it is the duty of every surgeon to look first to the safety of the life of his patient, he may have to sacrifice a limb, which, under more favour- able circumstances, he could save. Compound comminuted fractures of the lower extremity in the majority of cases call for amputation. The upper is capable of sustaining and recovering from injuries which would prove fatal or require amputation in the lower extremity. The bones of the humerus or forearm may be comminuted; but unless the integument is either severely lacerated, or torn away, or large vessels or nerves injured, the surgeon should endeavour to save the limb. The splintered and loose portions of bone should be removed, and the sharp projecting extremities cut off, and the case then treated as an or- dinary compounil fracture. Frequently, after severe comminution of the bones of the humerus, a large portion will suffer necrosis, but this may either come away of itself or be removed afterwards by the surgeon, and yet a useful arm may be preserved. John Bryan, of the 20th regiment, was wounded at the assault on the Redan. More than an inch of the thickness of the humerus was removed on the 6th August, yet good union followed with little loss of power of the limb.