307 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. ness, with strength sufficient, will be of great service in the early stages, and a grain of grey powder with henbane may be given nightly. F. 63, 64. But the principal dependence is to be placed on cod-liver oil and tonics, and on counter-irritation by means of a succession of small blisters around the hip, or at the anterior edge of the tensor vaginae femoris, or by a seton in the groin. When abscess forms, it should be opened subcutaneously, or by drainage tube, so as not to let the air enter the cavity as the pus escape. The position of the patient in bed is a point of considerable import- ance, since if lei't to himself he is apt to acquire the most distorted and ungainly attitude, " The following contrivance," says Mr. Coulson, " will be found very useful;—a double-inclined plane should be formed by joining two portions of wood together in such a manner that when the child's hams are made to cor)espond with the angle of junction, his legs and feet should extend down one plane, and there be confined to the foot-boards by rollers, whilst his thighs and buttocks extend down the other. The foot-boards will also have the beneficial effect of removing the weight of the bed-clothes from the feet. Opposite the anus a small opening should be made to admit the passage of the faeces. The whole trunk of the child should lie quite horizontally on the bed." The prone position is recommended by Coulson in the latter stages, as it avoids pressure on diseased and ulcerated hips; it allows dressings to be readily applied, and counteracts the patient's habit of lying with the diseased limb drawn up across its fellow. A couch is constructed with an angle, corresponding to the bend of the hips ; it has one part horizontal on which the abdomen and chest repose, while the pelvis and legs hang down an inclined plane. In cases in which a carious head of the femur keeps up constant irritation and discharge, with no chance of benefit from ordinai y local or constitutional remedies, whilst the acetabulum and bones of the pelvis, as well as the lungs, kidneys, and other viscera are so free fi'om ac- tive disease as to give a fair chance of recovery, excision of the head of the femur may be proposed. This operation was first performed by Mr. Anthony White in 1821, with perfect success, although Sir E. Home and the medical officers of St. George's Hospital gave it as their opinion that it would be useless, impracticable, and fatal. It was revived by Professor Fergusson in 1845, and has since that time been performed not only by that gentleman, but by Mr. Simon, Mr. H. Smith, Mr. French, Mr. Haynes Walton, Mr. Cotton of Lynn, Mr. Morris of Spalding, Mr. Jones of Jersey, Pro- fessor Buchanan of Glasgow, and Mr. T. Holmes, and with such an amount of success that it may now fairly rank amongst the established opera- tions of surgery ; and it is a strong argument in its favour that the acetabulum, although oi'iginally involved in the disease, yet frequently sets up a process of repair, and becomes filled with fibrous membrane, as soon as it is relieved by dislocation from the presence of the carious head of the thigh-bone. It is not a difficult proceeding. An incision five or six inches in length is made over the diseased and displaced bone;