463 CALCAREOUS DEPOSIT. of a fine probe coated with it (F. 193) to the aperture. But if the opening should not heal, or if the case he chronic with a con- siderable loss of substance of the membrane, a substitute for the mem- brane must be employed. Some patients had long been in the habit of putting a drop of water or of oil into the ear, with great benefit. But in 1848, Mr. Yearsley made known the simple but important fact, that a little bit of cotton-wool, moistened with water or oil, if passed down the meatus, and applied against the orifice, will act as an excellent substitute for the lost membrane. The patient can usually be taught to introduce and withdraw this cotton with great nicety, by means of a forceps or bodkin, and to place it exactly in the right spot. Whether it requires to be be removed twice, or once daily, or not so often, depends upon circumstances. Mr. Toynbee uses, instead of cotton, artificial membranes of small oval pieces of thin India-rubber. In purulent discharge, following internal otitis, the general health must be improved by tonics, alteratives, and aperients; and by warm baths (cold bathing is almost sure to be injurious); and the local disease must be treated by the cautious use of stimulants and astiin- gents. The ear should be twice daily, very gently, syringed out with warm water; and immediately afterwards a tepid lotion of alum or sulphate of zinc, or acetate of lead, may be dropped into the meatus till it is filled, and after remaining there two or three minutes, be allowed to run out, F. 135, 136, 140. If the discharge is very fetid, a lotion of two drachms of solution of chloride of lime to half a pint of water may be used, or F. 117; and if the case is obstinate, the whole interior of the meatus may be pencilled twice a week with a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. v. ad 5!.), by means of a camel's-hair pencil. If the discharge, as sometimes happens, causes excoriation of the auricle, or of the neck, these parts must be first fomented, and then smeared with an ointment of hyd. prsecip. alb. But it seems advisable not—as a general rule—to insert ointments into the meatus. VIII. Collapse of the Membrana Tympani.—The membrane may loose its normal resiliency as the result of inflammation, causing ulceration of one or more of its laminaj or a general weakening of the whole. In this condition it falls back, irregularly, towards the pro- montory, or even lies in contact with it. In some cases, on the patient's inflating the tympanum, it starts forward, with great increase of the power of hearing; in others it is attached by adhesions to the inner tympanic wall, and further results of inflammation are also present. In these latter cases the Eustachian catheter should be ti'ied, and it is sometimes found beneficial. In the former cases a lotion of nitrate of silver, 6—8 grains to the ounce, or other astringents, and frequent gentle inflation of the ear, are useful. Sometimes the support of the artificial membrana tympani will greatly improve the hearing. IX, Calcareous Deposit in the membrana tympani. This is frequently met with, mostly in crescentic patches following the course of the circular fibres. It accompanies and follows various diseased