407 SCROFULOUS OPHTHALMIA. presently, do not arrest the disease, and the chemosis is evidently ex- tending round the cornea, and the cornea is becoming hazy, incisions, at equal distances, should be made completely through the swollen con- junctiva, beginning at the margin of the cornea, and radiating towards the circumference of the eye.* " A small curved bistoury must be in- troduced just where the chemosed conjunctiva overlaps the cornea, and the point carried through the entire thickness of the swelling to the palpebral sinus, taking care not to injui^e the sclerotic coat, then the hand should be depressed, and the bistoury made to cut its way out. The incisions may be advantageously employed more than once in the same case, and are useful even when the conjunctiva is not extensively chemosed ;"t but an eye may perish in spite of them, as of all other means. The patient, if unruly, should be narcotized by chloro- form ; if not, he should sit on a low chair, and the operator stand behind him, and raise the upper lid with a retractor, whilst an assistant depresses the lower. They should be fomented with warm water, that they may bleed. If there comes on, as frequently happens, an exacer- bation of pain towards evening, it may be prevented by applying a few leeches in the afternoon, oi* by putting blisters behind the ears. The eyes should be frequently but gently washed out, by means of a piece of tine sponge, or syringe, with warm water or poppy decoction, containing three grains of alum to an ounce, in order to get rid of the purulent secretion ; and once or twice daily, a few drops of a freshly- made clear solution of two grains of nitrate of silver in an ounce of dis- tilled water should be dropped into the eye by means of a camel's-hair pencil. As soon as the chemosis begins to lessen, the weaker prepara- tions of F. 140 may be used. The diet should be improved, and the edges of the lids should be smeared at night with weak ung. hydr. nit. ox. If the strength becomes impaired, or if the cornea has given way, tonics, especially bark, F. 1, 4, should be administered, which, with repeated blisters, and a continuance of the astringent applications, are the measures for removing the relics of the disease. VI. Scrofulous Ophthalmia {phlyctenular ophthalmia) gene- rally attacks children under eight years of age, but is not uncommon in adults. Symptoms.—The characteristic feature of this disease is the extreme intolerance of light; quite out of propoi tion to any local visible disease. The lids are kept spasmodically closed, and the head turned obstinately away from the light; yet there is no general vascularity of the con- * This practice was revived by Mr. Tyrrell (vide Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxi. part ii., and Tyrrell on the Eye, vol. i., p. 73). It is mentioned by Astruc in the following terms:—" It was thought proper some time ago to try the same remedy in the eye tending to a mortification, as is made use of in other parts of the body when they are threatened with the same disease ; viz., to scarif y the swelled conjunctiva thick and deep, so that the globe of the eye, and especially the cornea, might be less compressed by it; for that sudden destruction of the eye seemed to be chiefly owing to its being too tightly embraced by the swelled conjunctiva."—Astruc on the Venereal bisease, translated from the Latin, Lend. 1754. t Haynes Walton, Operative Ophthalmic Surgery, p. 271.