DISEASES OF THE BONES. 238 upper part of the humerus, or tibia, or on the lower part of the femur, near the insertion of the adductor magnus. Their shape is sometimes broad and flat; sometimes rounded and prominent, with a narrow neck. Their structure is that of ordinary bone, sometimes dense and compact, especial ly when they grow from tlie frontal or temporal bones ; sometimes porous in the centre, with a thin external cortex. Some- times they result from the ossification of a fibrous, or fibro-plastic, or cartilaginous tumour or node of the periosteum; sometimes they are bony from the first, and are formed, as it were, by a development of one particular part of a bone, perhaps a natural process or spine. The preceding figure is an illustration. They cause no pain, unless they happen to press on nerves or arteries; but they may by their bulk interfere with the functions of various important parts, and give rise to the most serious evils. When situated on the inner surface of the skull, they may cause epilepsy; in the orbit they may cause the eye to pro- trude on the cheek ; they may obliterate arteries, and impede the action of muscles, and the movements of joints. Sometimes they arise without any very obvious cause ; occasionally they originate in a blow, or strain, or in an unnatural degree of pressure on a bone thinly covered by soft parts. Treatment.—In the first place, an attempt may be made to procure absorption of the tumour by means of iodide of potassium and friction Avith ointment of mercury or iodine. The more recent the tumour, the more effectual such measures are likely to be. In some cases (especially if the complaint follow a blow), a moderate course of mer- cury, so as barely to affect the mouth, will be effectual. If these measures do not succeed, the tumour may be removed by operation, if requisite on account of the inconvenience it produces. If it is globular, with a narrow neck, it may be cut down upon, and be sawn or chiselled off, or cut off with a gouge. But supposing that its base is broad, so that this cannot be done, its periosteum may be shaved oft'; after which it will probably perish by necrosis, or else waste away ; or the niti'ic acid, or potassa fusa, may be applied to its surface, to cause it to exfoliate. But these operations are not to be undertaken without due forethought; for they may be followed by extensive inflammation and necrosis, or by suppuration into a joint; and in operating on an exostosis neara joint, the possibility of opening the synovial membrane, should always be considered. Exostoses of the clavicles of children almost always disappear of themselves.* SECTION II.—DISEASES DEPENDING ON ATROPHY AND DEGENERATION, I. Atrophy of the bones is marked by a diminution of their weight. Sometimes it is attended likewise by a decrease in bulk ; bu sometimes, whilst the outward bulk is nearly unaltered, the prope * Vide Sir A. Cooper on Exostosis, in Cooper and Travers's Surgical Essays Mayo's Pathology, p. 11; Stanley on Diseases of the Bones, Lond. 1841; T. B. Curling on Atrophy of Bone, Med. Chir. Ti ans. vol. xx.