ix PREFACE. burn down his house because one of his attic chimneys smoked. Unhicldly for the " final cause," the preternatural action of the heart and arteries, instead of removing the difficulty it was supposed to be intended to remove, did but superadd a worse evil, and had to be repressed, in its turn, by antiphlogistics. To these four cardinal errors, viz. imperfect observation, wrong argumentation, abuse of the subjective, in the ascribing a moral purpose or "intention," or " disposition" to matter, and belief in final causes, we add a fifth, which was abundantly illustrated by the example of our fathers, It is Kationalis- ticism—the error of neglecting common-sense humble observa- tion, and of trusting to a-jpriori argument, in matters to which that line of argument is quite inapplicable. It differs from what is " rational," as a ghost differs from flesh and blood. It is a mere semblance of reasoning, grotesquely applied to a subject that does not admit of it. It is the same now, and ever will be, so long as we fondly believe that our pathological principles are established like mathematical truths, and that we are safe in deducing rules of practice from them, even though experience may go against us. This is well illustrated by the history ot that abuse of blood-letting, which, if I read our professional history aright, prevailed, not with the ancients, not with the Sydenhams, not with the great English physicians of the eighteenth century, but in the days from about 1790 to 1840, during which our fathers fondly persuaded themselves that they acted upon the " scientific principles " laid down by the immortal John Hunter. The hypothesis being that inflammation was an action" of the vessels (for they that believed in debility" of the in- flamed capillaries believed in " action " of the larger vessels), and the further hypothesis being accepted, that the action of the vessels was kept up by distension from within, it stood to reason that the way to diminish action was to empty the blood-vessels. Alas! that so many things which stand to reason (such as it is) should not stand to fact. But as it was a logical deduction from established " principles," that bleeding must diminish action, so practitioners went on bleeding in in- flammation, consoling themselves for the deaths of their patients by the reflection that ^they had done their duty. That blood-letting in certain cases of the early stage of in- flammation is of enormous service is an ancient and indispu- table fact. There are many theories on which its good effects can be explained, amongst which may be mentioned that of Dr. Markham, that it is beneficial chiefly in inflammations