APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 814 15. Steel, Ammonia, and Quassia. R. Infusi qnassise f^ss.; tincturse ferri ammoniati f^ss.; ammonise sesquicarbonatis gr. vj.; syrupi aurantii f3j. ; aquae destillatae f3vij. Misce, fiat liaustus, bis vel ter quotidie sumendus. For hysterical women (^Brodie.) Phosphate of Iron (Pharm. Brit). R. Ferri phosphatis gr. iij.; sacchari lactis, gr. iij.; fiat pulvis ter die sumendus. R. Syrupi ferri phosphatis P. B. f^ij. Sumatur cochleare parvum ter vel quater die. The American and French pharmaceutists seem to be successful in their preparations and combinations of phosphate of iron. There is a syrup of pyrophosphate of iron, much recommended by Haynes Walton, and made by Cooper, of Oxford Street; Parrish's compound syrup of phosphates of iron and lime, sometimes called chemical food, is an acid solution containing in one fluid drachm 2J gr. phosphate of lime, 1 gr. of phosphate of iron, with traces of phosphates of soda and potassa, and free hydrochloric and phosphoric acids. The lactate of iron has little solubility and little taste, and is often mixed with ferruginous chocolate, &c. Of the hypophosphites we know nothing, 16. Sulphate of Iron for Children. R. Ferri sulphatis gr. iij.; acidi sulphurici diluti TKXxij.; syrupi zinziberis f3iij.; aquse florum aurantii fgiij,; aquae destillatae f^ijss. Misce. Dosis, f^ss. ter die. 17. Sy7^up of Iodide of Iron {Pharm. Brit.) R. Syrupi ferri iodidi f^j.; sumar aeger guttas xx.—xl., bis die, e cyatho aquse, vel infusi zinziberis. {Dr. A. T. Thompson.) Iodide of Iron, with Sarsaparilla. R. Syrupi ferri iodidi, syrupi sarsse aa f3j. Misce. Sumat aeger cochleare parvum bis quotidie ex aqua. {Dr. Ferguson.) N.B. Blancard's pills of iodide of iron are a good form. 18, Mistura Ferri Aromatica, or Heherden's Ink. R, Corticis cinchonae lancifoliae contusi ^j, ; caryophyllorum contu- sorum Jij,; ferri ramentorum ^ss.; aquae menthae piperitae f^xv.; macera per dies tres in vase clauso, subinde agitans, dein cola, et adde tincturae cardamomi composite f^iij,; tincturae aurantii f5iij. Dosis, f^j.—iij- bis vel ter die. A most agreeable aromatic tonic. The Dublin Pharmacopoeia, from which this formula is taken, orders Jiij. of sliced calumba root ivith the bark : but the preparation is less nau- seous without it.