334 TREATMENT OF in length, according to the thickness of the wound, may in some cases be made to compress the vessel against a bone. In the second method of acupressure, a small sewing-needle is em- pjg_ (.^ ployed, threaded with a short piece of dead or inelastic iron wire, by which it may be pulled out at pleasure. This is dipped down into the tissues on one side, then raised up, and made to bridge over the vessel, which is meanwhile compressed with the point of the left forefinger. In the third method, the sew- ing-needle is passed simply behind the'vessel, and a noose of fine iron wire passed over the point, brought Fig. d. over the track of the vessel tightly enough to close it, and then secured with a slight twist round the stem of the eye-end of the needle. When- ever the operator chooses, he can pull out the needle, and then the wire loop follows without resist- ance. The wire passed through the needle should be distinguished by being twisted, or in some other way.* Other methods of checking the bleeding from arteries are, 1. Torsion is performed by drawing out the vessel, fixing it by a pair of forceps a quarter of an inch from the end, and then twisting the end roimd and round till it will not untwist itself. There is no English authority for applying this method to large arteries, but it may be useful enough when many minor vessels bleed after the extirpation of a tumour. 2. Pressure is a means of suppressing hsemorrhage that may be resorted to either when the ligature is deemed unnecessary, or when it cannot be applied. Thus it is applicable to wounded arteries of small size situated immediately over bones—as the temporal or occipital; or to arteries that cannot be tied, because they lie very deeply—as the vertebral or pudic after lithotomy; or to arteries that are so diseased that a ligature will not hold. The pressure must be confined as much as possible to the bleeding orifice, and should be effected by a graduated compress; i. e., one composed of several pieces gradually decreasing in size, the smallest being on the wound. It is also a good plan to apply pressure to the|<J0urse of the trunk above the wound. Moreover, when pressure is to be relied upon, the whole limb, including the fingers or * For fuller information, see Professor Simpson's original Papers in the Med. Times and Gaz., January, 1864.