55S STRANGULATED HERNIA. it is the ruptured part which has been squeezed into a narrow aper- ture, and is pressing outwardly against that aperture. Yet the effect is the same in either case. The symptoms of strangulated hernia are, fit-st, those of obstruction of the bowels ; secondly, those of inflammation. The patient first com- plains of flatulence, colicky pains, a sense of tightness across the belly, desire to go to stool, and inability to evacuate. It is true that stools may be passed if there be any faecal matter in the bowel below the hernia, or if the hernia be entirely omental, but with very transient relief. To these symptoms succeed vomiting of the contents of the stomach, then of mucus and bile, and, lastly, of matters which have acquired a stercoraceous appearance, by being delayed in the small in- testines. On examination the surgeon finds a rupture, which he cannot put back, and which is uneasy, tense, and incompressible. The commu- nication between the abdomen and the misplaced bowel is almost, or, if the stricture be tight, is quite interrupted; and therefore the im- pulse felt on coughing is either diminished or altogether lost. More- over, as Mr. Luke * very clearly pointed out, if the hernial tumour is examined with both hands, and if one hand is employed in grasping the body of the tumour, and two fingers of the other in feeling near the neck of the tumour for the impulse created by each act of compression, it will be found that the sensation of impulse Avill cease to be felt at the part where the stricture exists; and will not be felt all along the neck of the hernia, as it would if no stricture existed. If this state ot things continue, the inflammatory stage comes on. The neck of the sac becomes tender, and tenderness diffuses itself over the tumour and over the abdomen, both of which become very painful and much more swelled. The countenance is anxious; the vomiting constant; the patient restless and despondent; and the pulse small, hard, and wiry. After a variable time, the constricted parts begin to mortify. The skin becomes cold, the pulse very rapid and tremulous, and the tumour dusky red and emphysematous; but the pain ceases, and the patient, having perhaps expressed himself altogether relieved, soon afterwards dies. Varieties.—There is often considerable diversity in the rapidity and violence of these symptoms. If the patient be a strong adult, and the strangulation have commenced suddenly with a fresh protrusion during some forcible exertion, the inflammatory stage may come on instantly, and be followed by death in a very few hours. On the other hand, if the patient be old, if the hernia have been long irreducible, and have a large neck, and if the strangulation be produced by distension of the protruded bowel with flatus or faeces—the symptoms of mere obstruc- tion may last many days before those of inflammation come on. To this latter class of cases the term incarcerated is applicable.f Again, * Quoted in Mr. AVard's very able Memoir on Strangulated Hernia, Lond., 1S54. See also Med. Times, Dec. 1854. f There is great confusion in the use of these terms, as some surgeons employ the term incarcerated to signify what is generally known as irreducible hernia.