708 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. lation of ether in such a way as to produce a decided and controllable state of insensibility to the pain of surgical operations, is undoubtedly due to Morton. He first made several experiments on himself, with imperfect success, arising from the great difficulty of procuiing ether sufficiently pure; but having at last, on the 30th of December, 184(5, by inlialing it from a flask through a glass tube, succeeded in making himself unconscious, he determined to try the experiment on the first fit subject that presented himself. So eager was he, that he sent out agents that afternoon to try and tempt some Yankee, with the offer of five dollars, to come and inhale the ether, and loose a tooth. No one, however, would be so tempted ; but that same evening the very person wanted came of his own accord. A man, Eben H. Frost by name, applied to have a tooth extracted, and being wonderfully timid, and wishing to be mesmerised in order that he might feel no pain, he was easily persuaded to inhale some ether from a handkerchief. He soon became unconscious, and Morton extracted a bicuspid tooth, the patient knowing nothing of the operation till he recovered his senses, and saw the tooth lying on the floor. A Dr. Hayden, who held the lamp for the operator, and one Tenny, a journalist, were witnesses of the fact, and, together with the patient, immediately drew up and signed a document attesting it. And so, a new era in surgeiy began with the painless extraction of Frost's tooth by Morton, at 19, Tremont's Row, Boston, at nine in the evening of the 30tfi of September, 1846.* Morton lost no time in prosecuting the discovery he liad made, although he did not at first disclose the nature of the agent employed. He continued to make experiments at his own house ; and having made the subject known to Dr. Warren, was permitted to introduce his anaesthetic agent into the practice of genuine surgery, and on the 16th of October administered the ether in the Massachusetts General Hospital, at Boston, to a patient from whom Dr. J. C. Warren removed a tumour in the neck; and on the day foUovving to a patient from whose arm a tumour was extirpated by Dr. G. Hayvvard. From that time the use of the novel remedy spread rapidly in all directions ; but before pursuing its history we must drop a passing word of regret at its disastrous effects on the fortunes of its discoverer. Morton endea- voured to make a mystery of the means he employed, and to secure to himself, by patent, the exclusive right of administering it. But Jackson, seeing that the thing promised to be both famous and lucra- tive, now laid claim to the discovery as his own, on the plea that certain information which he had given Morton, respecting the pro- perties of ether, had directly led Morton to the use of it. To pacify Jackson, and bar any claims he might hereafter set up, he was allowed a share in the patent which was taken out. Nevertheless he sent a communication to the French Academy, in which he suppressed Mor- ton's name, and claimed the whole discovery as his own. Meanwhile the patent turned out to be good for nothing, and Morton, who * Ether and Chloroform, by Henry J. Bigelow, M.D. Boston, 1848.