ACUTE TETANUS. for him to put out his tongue, and his countenance has a pecuUar expression, resembling a painful smile, because the corners of the mouth and eyes are drawn outwards by incipient spasm of the facial muscles. In the next place, the muscles of mastication and deglu- tition become fixed and rigid with spasm, so that the mouth is per- manently closed, and there is great difficulty of swallowing, especially liquids. To these symptoms succeed a fixed pain at the pit of the stomach shooting to the back, and a convulsive difficulty of breath- ing, indicating that the diaphragm and muscles of the glottis are affected; and the spasm now extends to the muscles of the trunk and limbs, rendering them completely fixed and rigid. The abdomen feels remarkably hard; there is obstinate constipation, and frequently diffi- cult micturition from spasm of the perinaeal muscles ; the pupils are contracted ; and the saliva flows from the mouth, because the patient is unable to swallow it. This spasm never ceases entirely; but it occa- sionally has a lull, and then comes on again in fits of greater violence. Such fits are easily brought on by any disturbance, such as an attempt to swallow, or by any other bodily movement or mental excitement, and most remarkably by slight causes affecting the surface of the skin; such as currents of cold air. There are generally some snatches of relax- ation during sleep. Meanwhile the intellect is undisturbed, and the pulse may be natural, except during a severe paroxysm, which quickens it, and causes perspiration and thirst. Terminations.—(1.) If the case is about to end/afa%, the pa- roxysms become more frequent and violent, and the breathing more and more emban-assed by spasm of the diaphragm and of the muscles of the glottis; and at last the patient dies, either from exhaustion or from suffocation ;—either because the nervous system is worn out by the violence of the spasm; or because the respiration is suspended long enough to cut off the necessary supply of arterial blood from the brain, and so to induce insensibility. The most usual period of death is the third or fourth day ; sometimes it is postponed till the eighth or tenth, but rarely later. On the other hand, there is the case* recorded of a negro who injured his hand, and died of tetanus in a quarter of an hour ; and cases of death within twenty-four hours are by no means uncom- mon. (2.) When acute tetanus terminates favourably, still the patient's recovery may not be complete for weeks or months ;—partly because of the strainings and lacerations which the muscles have suffered,—partly because of the remaining tendency to spasm, which very slowly yields and is apt to be temporarily aggravated by very slight causes, especially cold and damp. But in some rare instances the disease has been re- moved almost instantaneously by the removal of its exciting cause. Prognosis.—The prognosis in acute tetanus is extremely unfavour- able, es])ecially if traumatic; it is more favourable in the idiopathic, and the chronic generally gets well of itself. Death very seldom occurs after the twelfth day. As a general rule, it may be said that the pro- gnosis is favourable if the complaint is partial;—if it does not affect the * Rees's EncyclopEedia, Art. Tetanus.