ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 224 SECTION XII.—SYPHILTZATION. Syphilization signifies the repeated inoculation of matter from a venereal sore, upon the same patient, either to render him insusceptible of fresh attacks, or to relieve existing symptoms. It w^as first devised by Auzias Turenne and Sperino of Turin, about 1850, and since, has been carried out on a very large scale by Professors Boeck, Faye, and other practitionei s at Christiania and other parts of Scandinavia. The only chancre that can be inoculated repeatedly is the soft; and it has been satisfactorily proved that ai'ter about four hundred inocula- tions, the system is still susceptible of the virus of the hard chancre, so that there is no protection in it. Nevertheless, it seems abundantly proved that obstinate constitutional syphilis, which has been rebellious to other remedies, has become subdued during this most strange and disgusting process.* * See Bumstead and Henry Lee, op. cit.; Aper9U des diffe'rentes m^thodes de traitenient employees a I'Hopital de Cliristiania, centre la Syphilis con- stitutionelle. Par J . L. Bidenkap. Christiana, 1863. This book gives a series of cases treated by M. Boeck by syphilization, and another series treated by M. Hjort by that which comes nearest to it, i. derivation, or the foi-mation of a series of pustules by emetic tartar. Of course the rest in bed, hospital diet, &c., were the same in both cases, and there can be no doubt of the superiority of syphilization over derivation and over sweat- ings, &c., whether as regards the time required for the suppression of symptoms or the frequency of relapses. M. Bidenkap affirms the inoculability of the in- fecting sore—a thing we gi'ant, if, as Marston and Lee have shown, there be a pus element superadded; for a hard chancre suppurating may be inoculated, not a hard chancre per se. At last, after from four to five months of syphili- zation, comes a time when inoculability ceases, and then the constitutional symptoms are cured. Syphilization, says M. Bidenkap, does by art for syphilis, what is done spontaneously in small-pox by the eruption; it provides for the development and multiplication of virulent matter, during which a local and general immunity against any further action of that virus is established. " My experience is," says Dr. Jeffery Marston in a MS. note to the author, " that so long as an ulcer is open and spreading upon any part of the body in a consti- tutionally syphilized individual, no other manifestations may appear." We must accept these facts, though we caimot explain them.