45 EFFUSION OF SERUM AND CEUEMA. spiratious, and the tendency of the malady to shift from one tendinous or muscular part to another. If chronic, there is an obstinate aching:, sometimes worse at night, sometimes relieved by the warmth of bed. For the acute, moderate purgatives and alkalis, F. 65, 70 : for the chronic, vapour-baths, warm aperients and stimulants, F. 7, 38, are indicated; and, in most sub-acute afiections, the iodide of potassium, F. 94, 96. 3. There are many modified chi'onic inflammations, such as those which give rise to eczema, psoriasis, &c., difficult to describe or classify, yet easily recognised in practice, which evidently depend each on a particular blood-taint, and each of which is benefited by some special alterative. In all cases it is right to begin with general tre;iiment ; that is, to improve the health, to see that the bowels, kidneys, and skin do their duty, and that the diet is sufficient. Then, if general treat- ment does not avail, some specific remedy must be sought. First, we may mention, iodide of potassium, which has the power of dis- solving many old deposits in rheumatic, gouty, scrofulous, and syphilitic cases, and of improving many skin eruptions, F. 94. Se- condly, the liquor potassce,-F, 78, which, as Dr. Parkes has shown, undoubtedly causes oxidation of some blood elements. It is indicated when the urine is red, and contraindicated in most cases of mere debility. Besides these alteratives, we must mention sarsaparilla, small doses of corrosive sublimate in tincture of bark, F. 87, and arsenic, F. 97, which are also useful in certain chronic inflammations, especially of the skin. In many of these the real evil seems to be a want of vigour, through which the tissues in question seem unable to maintain their vitality. It is on this principle that minei'al tonics, as arsenic, zinc, copper, and the mineral acids seem to do good, by giving a better quality to the materials assimilated. CHAPTEE VII. EFFUSION OF SERUM AND OEDEMA. Effusion of Serum may be caused, 1st, by any circumstance which hinders the return of venous blood; this is called simple oedema. 2ndly. It may be caused by a depraved state of the blood, arising from disease of the kidneys,—renal dropsy. 3rdly. It may be an inflammatory exudation. In almost all cases of inflammation, effusion of serum is the earliest and most constant effect; the liquid being poured out equally into the areolar tissue—into the parenchyma of organs—from mucous and serous surfaces, and from the skin. If it is followed by any of the other effects of inflammation, it is always more widely extended than they are. But it may be the chief or only effect of inflammation, as in' oedema