541 OVARIOTOMY. favour the spread of inflammation; but that it shall be brought out of the wound and be fixed there. This improvement is due to Mr. Dufiin. For this purpose the pedicle may be compressed by a clamp, originally devised by Mr. Hutchinson, consisting, in the most improved form of the instrument, of two plates of steel, which are gilded, and are capable of being screwed so as to compress the pedicle thoroughly.* The inner surface of each plate is jagged, so that the pedicle can scarcely slip. It should, as Mr. Spencer Wells ob- serves, be so placed as not to drag the uterus, and consequently should be as far from that organ as possible; and if the pedicle be very short, a portion of cyst may be cut off, sufficient to make a pedicle long enough to project through the wound. The latest form of clamp used by Mr. S. Wells is here depicted. It is more easily applied, more secure, and gives less annoyance to the pa- tient than former models. Lastly, the wound is closed accurately (leaving the stump of the pedicle secured by the clamp just protruding from it), and so the operation is finished. The method of closing the wound recommended by Mr. Spencer Wells is by a sufficient number of sutures of fine, strong, pure silk, which should be passed from within outwards through the entire thickness of the wound, including the peritonaeum, so as to bring two surfaces of that membrane into contact, and produce adhesion of them, and exclude the contact of the purulent matter which may be secreted by the other structures. But there are cases in which the steps of the operation do not follow so smoothly as we have just described them. The abdomen may contain a large quantity of ascitic fluid, most of which must be allowed to escape before beginning upon the ovary. It may not be possible to extract the tumour through a small incision, either because its con- tents are too viscid to run out, or because it is solid and cannot be emptied (of course any lesser contained cysts may be punctured), or because of adhesions. These, if old, firm, and extensive, may cause the operation to be abandoned ; if slighter, they may be gently torn through, or, if need be, divided with the knife, and any arteries or veins of suf- ficient consequence must be tied. If it be impossible to apply the clamp, a stout whipcord ligature may be made to encircle the whole * See Medical Times and Gazette, Dec. 11, 1858.