749 THE AXILLARY ARTERY. finger should alone be trusted to ; for sometimes when its coats are thickened, pulsation is not evident in the trunk itself. Venous haBmorrhage is often most ti'oublesome, and when pressure on the smaller veins does not readily stop it they must be tied. If the subclavian vein is wounded, pressure alone can be employed. The act of passing the needle under the artery has been attended with almost incredible difBculties, and so has the tying of the ligature, and many ingenious instruments have been devised to render both of these pro- ceedings more easy. IV. The Axillary Artery is that portii)n of the main trunk of the arm, which extends from the lower border of the first rib, to the lower edge of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major in the axilla. Its entire course is that of a gentle curve, with the convexity outwards and upwards. For surgical purposes it may be divided into two portions, the former being the upper part of its course, where it lies thickly covered by muscle, and the latter being the lower part, where it can be felt against the humerus in the axilla. In the upper part of its course the artery lies upon the first intercostal space, and on the second digitation of the serratus raagnus ; its vein lies internal, the brachial plexus is above and behind it; afterwards it en- circles the artery. It is in the case of wounds that an operation is likely to be attempted in this situation : or in the case of aneurysm, when the subclavian cannot be tied above the clavicle. See Symes' Operation, p. 349. In such cases, the dissection must be carried down to the arteiy, through any muscle that may be in the way, and according to the cir- cumstances of the case. But the following operation may be prac- tised in the dissecting-room. To tie the Axillary Artery m the upper part of its course.—The shoulder should be thrown back, and the arm drawn back, so as to put the pectoral muscle on the stretch. An assistant should be at hand to compress the subclavian artery if necessary. An incision four inches long should be made from the coracoid process inwards in a transverse depending curve half an inch below the clavicle, to the edge of the deltoid muscle; recollecting that the cephalic vein and thoracico- acromailis artery, which run in the interval between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, should not be injured. The pectoralis major should then be divided to the same extent. Now there may be a pause to check haemorrhage, which being accomplished, and the lower border of the wound being well drawn downwards, the areolar tissue is to be carefully cut through, and then the edge of the pectoralis minor will come into view, going upwards and outwards over the vessels and nerves to be inserted into the coracoid process. Any branches of the thoracic arteries that may be wounded should at once be tied. The next point is, to scratch through the costo-coracoid, or coraco-clavi- cular fascia: a dense fascia extending from the first rib to the coracoid process, and from the upper edge of the pectoralis minor muscle, to the subclavius. At this stage of the proceedings, the arm should be brought