741 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. on each side to the front of the transverse piece. This bandage may thus be made to support a pad, either for the rectum or the uterus and vagina, or a poultice or other application to the male perinseum.* CHAPTER V. OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. SECTION I.—THE CAROTIDS, LINGUAL AND FACIAL. I. The Common Carotid Artery of either side, follows a course as nearly as possible represented hyaline drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mas- toid process. Each artery lies against the anterior spinal muscles, the longus colli, and rectus capitis anticus major. Each is contained in a dense cellular sheath, which includes, besides the artery, the internal jugular vein on its outer side, and the pneumogastric nerve between the m-tery and vein. In front of the sheath, and connected to it, lies the descendens uoni nerve, which sweeps downwards, and about the middle of the neck unites with a branch of the cervical plexus, to form a loop from which branches are given off to the muscles that pull down the larynx. Behind the sheath lie the sympathetic and cardiac nerves, and at the lower part the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent nerve cross behind it towards the larynx. Yet it must be recollected that occa- sionally the descendens noni has been found within the sheath, or behind the artery; and that the inferior thyroid artery has been found in front of the carotid. On the inner side lie the pharynx and oesophagus, tra- chea and larynx, and the thyroid gland, which last somewhat overlaps the artery. On the outer side are chains of lymphatic glands. The left artery and the right differ in their origin, and in their rela- tions during the first part of their course. The left arises from the arch of the aorta, and rests at first on the side of the trachea, thoracic duct, and oesophagus, and behind the border of the manubrium and sterno-clavicular joint. Both terminate opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into internal and external carotids. The left jugular vein lies rather in front of the left carotid, as it goes to empty itself into the left brachio-cephalic vein, which crosses the artery at its origin. The right carotid arises from the arteria innominata, and ascends rather more perpendicularly. The right internal jugular vein is more external than the left, and near its termination diverges somewhat from the artery. This makes a little difierence in tying these arteries low down. Each artery is covered by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and * Full information on the subject of this chapter will be found in Mr. Heath's work on Minor Surgery, Bandaging, &c. Lond. 1861.