498 INFLAMMATORY SOFTENING OF THE GUMS. hand; but yet not so forcibly as to run the risk of crushing tlie tooth. 2. The elevator is highly useful for stumps, and for old straggling teeth. The point is to be thrust firmly down between the tooth and its socket, and then by bringing the instrument into a horizontal position, and making a fulcrum of the edge of the alveolar process, or of the adjoining tooth, or of the operator's fingei's, the tooth may be lifted out. 2. The key is an instrument that is often employed for the ex- traction of the bicuspides and molars; but it is more painful than the forceps, and every one must know instances of laceration of the gum, and splintering of the alveoli, followed, perhaps, by tedious exfoliation, that have been produced by the clumsy use of this instru- ment; not to mention the risk of the claw slipping from the decayed tooth and dragging out a sound one instead. If, however, it is pre- ferred, care should be taken to select an instrument of proper size, and to place the fulcrum in a proper position. If the key is too small, and the fulcrum too high, very probably the ciown of the tooth will be snapped off. If the key is too large, and the fulcrum too low, either the claw of the instrument may be snapped across, or the alveolar process be exten- sively splinteied. The adjoining figui'e is intended to show the right position, which will draw the tooth more or less perpen- dicularly from its socket. The fulcrum ought to be placed on the inner side, for the bicuspides of the lower jaw, and mo- lars of the upper; and on the outer side for the molars of the lower jaw. The denies sapienticB of the upper jaw should never, according to Be.ll, be extracted with the key, because of the delicate texture of the bone on which the fulcrum must rest. Before extracting teeth with the key, it is usual to cut away the gum from their necks by means of a gum lancet; a practice only necessary if the gum has been subject to repeated inflammation, which renders it ad- herent to the tooth, and liable to be lacerated on its removal; or secondly, in order to afford room for the claw, if the tooth has decayed down to the gum. Some persons, instead of using a lancet, separate the gum by means of a small tenaculum. VIII. H/EMORRHAGE after Extraction of Teeth.—This operation may be followed by very severe and dangerous hfemorrhage, which sometimes appears to come from the dental artery at the bottom of the socket; sometimes from the gums, when they have been long diseased. The cavity must be cleared of all coagulum ; and be cleanseti with a bit of lint dipped in solution of alum. Should this not answer,