71 VARIETIES OF ULCERATION. if there be much discharge, or the water-dressing, or simple ointment, if there be not. If there be not much discharge, the dressings should not be changed more frequently than every second or third day. If the granulations are too luxuriant, they may be touched with lunar caustic, or washed with some astringent lotion (F. 117), and dressed with dry lint. If the granulating surface is very extensive, or if all applica- tions disagree with it, as sometimes happens, it will be expedient to form a scab on its surface ; by sprinkhng a little challc on the surface, or by passing a stick of lunar caustic over the surface of the sore, as recom- mended by Mr. Higginbottom. This salt instantly coagulates the fluids on the sore, and forms a white pellicle, which soon becomes dry and black, and is much less irritating than an ordinary scab. If the scab act favourably, suppuration ceases, and cicatrization will be found complete when it is detached. II. The Inflamed Ulcer, with which we may conjoin the Irri- table Ulcer, are hot, tender, and subject to gnawing pain. The surface is red and easily bleeds; the discharge is thin and ichorous. The usual situation is the leg; the class affected, the labouring population; the predisposing cause, an unhealthy state of skin from degeneration of the veins; the exciting cause, any injury whatever occurring at a time when the health is deranged, A thin, foul, copious discharge is gene- rally a true natural process of elimination, and requires purgatives. Treatment.—^The patient should be kept in bed with the limb raised on a pillow. The first point is to amend the general health. For this purpose, if the tongue is white, and the patient feverish, active purga- tives must be given (F. 33), with sahnes (F. 39). For the local treat- ment, in the first place soothing applications should be resorted to; and the author, from very extensive experience, most strongly recommends the poppy lotion (F. 121) applied warm, by means of pieces of lint covered with oiled silk, and changed three times daily. Washing should be eflected without touching the sore. Plain bread-and-water poultices (F. 153) and lead lotion sometimes answer well. If warm applications aggravate the pain, cold evaporating, or saturnine lotions (F. 115, &c.) should be used, the sore being protected by a piece of oiled silk or simple dressing. When feverishness has been relieved, and the bowels well opened, pain may be relieved by henbane, or hemlock, or F. 30; or, if very severe, and there is great mental anxiety, the patient should have such a dose of solid opium at night as will insure sleep, and such smaller doses during the day as may be requisite. Then if the soothing plan ceases to do good, very mild stimulants may lie tried, in the form of lotions, applied by means of small pieces of liut thoroughly soaked, laid gently on the sore, and not beyond the edges, and covered with oiled silk, or lint thickly spread with spermaceti ointment. The lotions of nitrate or acetate of lead, or of zinc (F. 116), and black wash, are the best. Should these not answer, and the pain of the ulcer depend evidently on irritable surface, and not on inflam- mation, the surface may be destroyed by lunar caustic, or by nitric acid.