INGUINAL HERNIA. 572 affected side removed, and the hernia carefully reduced. The patient should be in the same position as for the taxis. The surgeon stands on the side on which he opea'ates. Fig. 9. The first step consists in invaginating the sac and its coverings. The surgeon using the left forefinger for the left side " places it," says Mr. Wells, " on the scrotum, about an inch below the external ring, and then pushes a fold of the scrotum before his finger, with a little rotatory movement slowly and steadily into the canal, keeping the palmar surtace of the finger turned forwards and a little outwards, until it is well under the tendon of the external oblique, and the plug of scrotum is well pressed up to, or through, the internal ring." He must make sure that his finger is within the inguinal canal, beneath the tendon of the external oblique, and that it has not merely slipped up under the skin, outside the tendon. The next step is, to introduce the wooden plug ; which should have the needle or needles passed within it, so ftir as may be, without permitting their points to project. The surgeon taking it in his dis- engaged hand, is directed by Mr. Wells to bend the finger which is in the canal, and slip the plug along its dorsal surface, so as to introduce the plug adroitly, whilst withdrawing the finger. Here, again, the operator must be on his guard, both that the invaginated sac and skin do not come down with the finger, and likewise that the wooden plug be introduced into the inguinal canal, and not merely slipped up under the integument; and following Mr. Wells's authority, must feel that the external oblique tendon lies over, and l olls over it; which fact ought also to be ascertained with regard to the preliminary introduction of the finger. The next point is, to push the needle or needles onwards, till their points come through the skin. Then the cover must be adjusted, and fixed by the screws —the needles also be fixed in their places by screws ; their steel points removed and knobs put on, and the handle of the instrument be taken off. Thus it will be evident that two surfaces of sac are pressed together, whilst the inguinal canal is filled with invaginated tissue; and now the object is to get the opposed surfaces of sac to adhere. The means