GENERAL DOCTRINE OF REPAIR. 24 the polyp, repair seems to be almost unlimited, any portion of a severed animal being able to reproduce all the rest: whole limbs, too, are repro- duced in the lobster and the lizard. But in the higher animals it is only the commonest structures that can be restored : for example, to quote from Mr. Paget:— " 1. Those which are formed entirely by nutritive repetition, such as the blood and the epithelia. " 2. Those which are of lowest organization and of lowest chemical character; as the gelatinous tissues, the cellular and tendinous, and, the bones. "3. Those which are inserted in other tissues, not as essential to their structure, but as accessories, as connecting or incorporating them with the other structures of vegetative or animal life ; as nerve fibres, and blood-vessels. With these exceptions, injuries or losses in the human body are capable of no more than repair in its most linoited sense—i. e. in the place of what is lost some lowly-organized tissue is formed, which fills up the breach and suffices for the maintenance of a less perfect life." J^eeing, then, that the tissues capable of being reproduced, are the connective or areolar tissue, including tendon and ligament, bone and cartilage, blood-vessel and nerves, and epithelium, but not more com- plex structures, such as muscle, we may next observe that The most modern theory of the process is, that the germinal or living or nuclear elements in the injured tissue,—say bone or tendon—rapidly increase by imbibition of liquor sanguinis attracted from the blood, and by fissure and growth form a pale, fibrinous-looking mass; which, ex- amined under the microscope, seems to be studded with nuclei at regular intervals, and undergoes conversion into fibrous tissue, cartilage, or bone. On the theory that the i-eparative material is an exudation of lymph in which nuclei form bj inherent creative force, this ma- terial was called by Paget, nucleated blastema. This is the most perfect form of repair, and usually found in subcutaneous wounds. In other cases the reparative material will be found to consist of large nucleated cells; which subsequently enlarge, elongate, split into the shapes known as caudate, fusiform, &c. Such cells imbibe water, under the microscope, which shows them to be separable into cell wall and cell contents, and the addition of acetic acid renders every part * This cut represents, on the right of the page, fibro-plastic cells, of various sizes and degrees of development; on the left, cells which are developing into fibres; those at either end, marked X a, have been treated with acetic acid. Traced with the camera from actual specimens from granulations, healing wounds, and fibro plastic tumours, magnihed 200 diameters. The scale of '001 nch will give an idea of the real magnitudes.