GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE 152 severe, since this is favourable to the formation of clot and arrest of the bleeding. A piece of light dressing should be placed on the wound, and he should be carefully watched, and the symptoms treated as they present themselves. If the wound be superficial and small, and there is much hsBmorrhage, it may be enlarged and the bleeding vessel secured. If the intercostal artery be wounded and difficult to secure, a piece of thin wire or thread may be passed round the ribs including the vessel. If the surgeon has reason to believe that haemorrhage is going on into the pleura, free venesection should be had resort to, sufficient to induce syncope and favour the formation of a clot. If external haemorrhage is taking place there is no need of venesection, as sufficient blood may be lost to produce the requii-ed effect. Much has been said lately concerning the necessity or advisability of bleeding men simply because they have received a chest wound. The late war in the Crimea seems to point out that large bleeding for the arrest of the inflammatory action which follows gun-shot injuries of the chest, is injudicious. Adhesive inflammation along the track of the bullet is desired, and is absolutely necessary for the purpose of hmiting the inflammatory action to the wounded part. By largely bleeding the patient, suppu- ration is induced, and general, instead of local ])neumonia is the result. A low diet, perfect rest, anodynes, and diaphoretics seem to afford the patient the best chance of recovery, if he escape the first danger from haemorrhage. The position of the patient should be that which is most comfortable, as that will probaby be the one which is most favourable for his recovery. On the wounded side is generally selected, as that position favours the discharge of matter, approximates the opposed surfaces of the pleura, and quiets the movements of the ribs on the affected side. Treatment by hermetically sealing the wound.—In the present American civil war, a plan of treatment, proposed by Dr. Howard, for penetrating wounds of the chest and abdomen is said to have been followed by success. This surgeon considered that the custom of leaving open the wound for the escape of blood is objectionable in favouring the continuance of the bleeding, increasing dyspnoea by permitting atmospheric pressure on the surface of the lung, and promoting the putrid decomposition of the effused fluids. He first pares the edges of the wound, if made by a gunshot, thus removing the contused parts unfavourable to union. He then brings together the edges by silver sutures, and puts on several layers of collodion, and then a lint com- press and bandage, with the object of securing union by adhesion. If there follow undue heat and swelling, he applies copious affusion of cold water. Should suppuration occur in the pleural cavity, he removes the matter by the use of a trocar and oanula at the most dependent point, with cai e to avoid admission of air. He states that he has thus obtained union by adhesion and removed the sutureslive days afterwards, and that the bleeding was always controlled, and the distress and dyspnoea alleviated by the treatment. This treatment by herme' tically sealing the wound is stated by Dr. Howard to have been followed