HYPER.EMIA. 19 the student may be aware that a something above and beyond this is necessary to constitute inflammation, as will be shown hereafter. Local hyperjjemia may be of two kinds—1. Active or arterial ; 2. Passive or venous. To the first the name determination of blood, or active congestion ; to the second the name passive congestion is com- monly given. 1. Active determination of blood is a process wherein more blood is attracted to some particular organ, and circulated through it more rapidly than usual. It is necessary to many natural and beneficial actions: as the enlargement of the womb in pregnancy, and of the breasts after delivery. It is equally necessary to many morbid actions ; it forms one of the first and most palpable effects of inflammation; it is the cause of redness and throbbing ; it is witnessed in blushing ; in the condition of the blood-vessels of the intestines in malignant cholera ; in headaches from excitement; and in the afflux of blood to the uterus, from ovarian excitement. The usual consequence of active hypersemia in excess is haemorrhage ; as in sanguineous apoplexy, epistaxis, and hsemoptysis. 2. Passive congestion signifies a stagnation of blood in a part, espe- cially in its veins. It may be a consequence of mechanical obstacle to the return of blood; or of atony and want of vital contractility in the capillaries, especially if they have been previously subject to great disten- sion or excitement. It is evidenced by a sense of weight and aching pain, and is very liable to lead to serous efl'usion, or passive htemorrhage, and to ulceration or gangrene. There are two causes of peculiar force in producing local accumula- tions of blood. One is the condition of the nervous system, the other the composition of the blood. For exanaple, mental emotion will direct torrents of blood to the lachrymal glands in weeping, to the salivary glands in hunger, to the breasts, uterus, and other sexual organs. Some women flood if their tempers are disturbed. The fixing the attention strongly on any organ may suffice to derange its circulation. The admi- nistration of opium warms the feet and produces a genial circulation in the skin. It appears by the experience of Brown Sequard, and Claude Bernard,* corroborated by those of Dr. Chapman, that whatever para- lyses the sympathetic nerves, produces dilatation of the blood-vessels to which those nerves are distributed. Section of the sympathetic in the rabbit's neck, causes the arteries of the ear and side of the face to enlai'ge. The other cause is impurity of blood. Let the blood be impure from any cause whatever, from the presence of bile, urea, orlithic acid, or let it be deficient in its proper constituents, or let it be contaminated by poison, and local congestions are sure to occur. Every poison seems to have its own seat of election. The headaches that accompany biliary disorder, and the serous effusions which follow Bright's disease, the stomach irritation from arsenic and the paralysis from lead, are ex- amples. * See Claude Bernard's Lectures in the Medical Times and Gazette for 1860 and 1861.