BRUISES AND ECCHYMOSIS. 131 inflammatory exudation, or if the reparative material be injured or disturbed, a subcutaneous injury may lead to abscess. The reason why a subcutaneous injury should be so mu(;h less dangerous than one in which the skin is divided—why, for example, a simple fracture or dislocation should be comparatively safe, whilst a compound fracture or dislocation is a highly dangerous accident, appears to be this ; that the wound in the skin may be easily hindered from uniting by a variety of disturbing causes; and that the exudation, in contact with the air and external bodies, is liable to undergo decomposi- tion ; and that the state of decomposition may spread thoughout the wound, and give rise to various"local and constitutional distm'bances, varying from slight inflammation, or suppuration, to pyaemia. Treatment,—The general indications are, to put the injured part into an easy posture and keep it at perfect rest; to apply moderate pressure, so as to check exudation ; to soothe pain, sustain the secretions and strength of the patient, and so prevent inflammation and insure speedy repair. SECTION II.—BRUISES AND ECCHYMOSIS. Definition.—A bruise or contusion signifies an injury inflicted by some blunt object, without perforation of the skin. Bruises maybe divided into three degrees. 1. Those which proditce some laceration of small vessels in the areolar tissue, and perhaps some division of muscular flbre, accompanied by a limited effusion of blood into the part. 2. A large vessel may be ruptured, so that blood is effused in con- siderable quantity, and tears up the cellular tissue, in which it coagti- lates; or if an artery is ruptured, a false or diffused aneurism may be the result. 3. The tissues may be irretrievably pulpified and disorganised] as happens from the contact of a spent cannon-ball, for instance. ECCHYMOSIS is an effusion of blood in the areolar meshes or sub- stance of tissues. When ecchymosis has been produced in the skin or immediately beneath it, there appears a swelling of a reddish colour, which speedily becomes black. On the third day it is violet, and the margin, which was at first well defined, is found to be faint and diff used. About the fifth or sixth day the colour becomes green ; on the seventh or eighth, yellow; and it gradually disappears about the tenth or twelfth—sooner or later, according to the vigour of the individual, and the quantity of blood effused. If an ecchymosis be formed in the cellular tissue without injury of the skin, no discolouration may appear for twenty-four hours ; and if it be more deeply seated among the muscles it will not affect the skin for some days, and may then appear at a part quite remote from the seat of injury ; and, in this last case, will usually be in the foi-m of irregular yellow spots, maibled with green and blue.* * Devergie, Medecine Legale, Paris, 1836, tome ii. p. 57.