847 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 194. To make common Bougies. " A piece of fine linen, which has been ah'eady used, nine inches long and half an inch to an inch in width, according to the thickness of the bougie to be made, is to be dipped into melted plaster, and when a little cooled, spread flat and even with a spatula; it is then to be rolled together between the fingers, and afterwards between two plates of marble till it is quite firm and smooth. The bougie must be equally- thick throughout its whole length to about one inch from its point, from whence it should gradually taper, and terminate in a firm round point. Bougies are also made by dipping cotton-threads in melted wax till they have acquired sufficient size, after which they are rolled between marble plates."—South's Ghelius. This formula may he useful to surgeons on foreign stations. 195. Acid Nitrate of Mercury, Dissolve one part of mercury in two parts of strong nitric acid, and evaporate to three-fourths.—Paris Codex. 196. Essence of Beef. Take a pound of lean beef, free from skin, bone, and fat: chop it up; put it into a large earthen jar with cover; cement the edges with flour paste ; tie it up tightly in a cloth ; plunge it into a saucepan, and let it boil for two hours ; pour oft' the liquid essence from the coagulated muscle ; let it stand till cold ; skim off the fat. This essence is prepared for sale by Messrs. Brand of 11 Little Stanhope Street. See a communication by the author to the Obstetrical Society, Obst. Trans., a^oI. iii., p. 143, and a letter in the Medical Times and Gazette for 1861, vol i., pp. 536, 587, advocating the use of this essence as a substitute for brandy in cases of debility and nervous exhaustion. The writer must also mention in terms of high commen- dation, Gillou's Essence of Beef, Mutton, Chicken, &c., preserved in tins, and sold wholesale in London by J. Bell and Co., Oxford Street. Puree of Meat. Take any raw or underdone meat, chicken, or mutton by preference ; cut off" skin and fat, pound it in a mortar until it is a paste if raw, or a powder if cooked. Diffuse a tablespoonful of this through half a pint of good beef soup. Meat Custard. Take any cooked meat, pound it to a powder; separate sinew, fibre, &c. ; mix it with yolk of egg and milk, to make a custard: flavour with salt and a little marjoram ; gently cook it till it sets. These are " means of administering meat to patients too feeble to masticate, 197. Nitrate and Muriate of Ammonia. ^. Ammonise muriatis 3ij.; aquse destillate f^viij. Misce. Sumat partem sextam vel quartam ter die.