457 ECZEMA. being at the same time employed) by applying lunar caustic on a fine stick, or on the point of a probe to their point of origin. Equally ef- fective, and less liable to set up irritation, is the application of alum in the form of powder. The meatus should be regularly syringed with warm water or an astringent lotion. In the lever forceps, constructed by the late Mr. Avery, the forceps' blades, A, when properly inti'oduced, can be made to grasp the neck of the polypus, by the pressure of the thumb on the button, B, which pushes forward the canula, c, so as to close the blades. These, however, are better as flat rings than as solid plates. VII. Fungous Granulations are also exceed- ingly common. They generally occur at the very bottom of the meatus, or grow from the membrana tympani, or from the cavity of the tympanum after the membrane has been perforated by ulceration. Sometimes the membrane is covered with florid vas- cular granulations, so as to resemble the granular conjunctiva. The common polypus is but an exag- geration of this condition. Treatment. — The solution of nitrate of silver should be regularly applied to the diseased surface by a camel's-hair pencil, and astringent washes shoulc" be injected. With regard to all inflammatory afiections of the external meatus it should be borne in mind that they may, especially in the young, extend to the surround- ing bone, and through it, or through the veins, implicate the brain. The great safeguard is a perfectly free exit for discharge. In all cases the constitutional condition needs attention. VIII. Hypertrophy op the External Ear.—Dr. Graves men- tions a case in which the pendant lobes of the ear became thickened and elongated through a deposit of fat into their cellular tissue; the patient died of fatty degeneration of the liver. The author has seen one or two cases in which the whole external ear was excessively enlarged and thickened. Cysts also sometimes form in the lobe, and in the insane, effusions of blood take place beneath the perichondrium, IX. Eczema of the auricle is a very troublesome affection ; and if it becomes chronic, is apt to produce thickening of the lining mem- brane of the meatus, and of the membrana tympani. The treatment consists, during the acute stage, in active purgation (F. 33, &c.), and warm poppy fomentations; saline and alkaline medicines, and good diet. In the later stage, the black wash may be used as an injection, and the dilute citrine ointment be smeared over the auricle at bedtime. Bark,