716 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. ables the surgeon to pro(;eed with his dissection in a more leisurely manner; it does awav with the sci'uples of the over-modest woman, to whom the shame of exposure is worse than the pain of the knife; and it circumvents the opposition of the timid and unruly. In military surgery it has special uses. " In the prolonged searches," says Dr. Macleod,* " which are sometimes necessary for the extraction of foreign bodies, it not only prevents pain, but restrains the involun- - tary contraction of muscles which otherwise would throw great obsta- cles in the way of both sear(>,h and extraction. In field-practice, too, when a number of men come in quick succession during a general en- gagement, to be operated upon, the brave fellows who are waiting for their turn are spared the depression which the groans of their com- rades under the knife would otherwise inflict upon them." In the case of children, many things can be done nicely with chloro- form, which could be but most ill done, if at all, without it. Take, for instance, the case of wounds of the eyelids or eyebrows, which, if not most accurately sewn up, are sure to be followed by frightful seams, or by inversion or eversion of the lids, and perpetual overflow of tears. By a little chloroform, not merely the pain and fright of the injury, and the severe smarting caused by the needle, but the struggles also, which render quickness and nicety of adaptation impossible, are done away with; the patient sleeps t]-anquilly during the process, and wakes composedly soon after, absolutely without any ill consequences whatever. The writer administered it day by day for a fortnight to a child of four years, who had been severely scalded, in order to prevent the screams and struggles which accompanied the dressing of the wound. No ill effects whatever resulted. The child slept during the dressing, and awoke without sickness. But the uses of chloroform are far from being confined to the prac- tice of burgery. In midwifery the uneasiness and spasms which attend the early stages, and the distension and rigidity of the later, together with the anxiety and fears, are so tranquillized that, although fortu- nate and healthy women need it not, yet those who have ever experi- enced the comfort of it, are never willing to forego it in another con- finement. Moreover, inordinary cases, its good effects may be obtained with the smallest doses, without scarcely passing the first or second de- gree of narcotism, and without the slightest danger at the time, or ill effect on mother or child afterwards.f In the operation of midwifery its effects are admirable ; and not the least happy circumstance is, that it works so well with opium. In general physic its use is great; not so great, perhaps, as the writer was led to hope in preceding editions of this work. In the last edition but one we said, " In genei-al terms, it may be said to achieve perfectly, and at once, what opium is an hour or two in doing gradually. Moreover, it has the happy property of being so * Notes on the Surgery of the War in the Crimea. By G. H. B. Macleod, M.D , F.R.C.S., &c,, Lond. 1858. t The writer has an Essay on the Causes, Varieties, and Prevention of Pain in Labour, which he hopes to publish ere long.