583 FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. The old operation.—In the first place the skin must be divided. Some sm'geous make one simple perpendicular incision. Sir A. Cooper directs one like an inverted j^; Mr. Liston prefers making one incision along Poupart's ligament, and another falling perpendicularly from its centre over the tumour, thus : '^..^^^ The skin may be very safely and expeditiously divided by |^~^\ pinching it up into a fold, and running the knife tln-ough it with its back towards the sac. Mr, Fergusson sometimes I makes one like an inverted so that the skin can be turned back in three flaps; after which the succeeding layers may be divided by a simple longitudinal incision. Then the different cellular layers down to tiie sac must be divided by the bistoury and director, as in the inguinal hernia, and the sac must be opened with very great care, because it is generally very small, and embraces the bowel tightly, and seldom contains any serum or omen- tum. Then the finger should be passed up to seek for the stricture, which, according to Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Liston, will be generally found to be the inner edge of the falciform process. This must be gently divided for a line or two, the incision being directed vpivards and a little inwards, towards the spinous process of the pubes. It must be recollected, that if this incision were carried too far, the spermatic cord in the male, or roimd ligament in the female, would be injured. If, however, the stricture is not released by that incision, a few fibres of Gimbernat's ligament must be divided. 2. The operation without opening the sac is described by Mr. Luke thus. After premising that the seat of stricture is sure to be at or near the femoral ring, and that it is sometimes caused by bands of fascia propria, half or three-quarters of an inch below the ring; and that the upper boundary of the tumour on the abdominal surface is often marked by a visible depression, or at least that it can be felt by the fingers ; a fold of integuments," he continues, " is to be pinched up at that part, and divided by transfixing it with a narrow knife, so that the incision, when the skin is replaced, shall fall perpendicularly to the body, with its centre opposite to the depression referred to. By a tew strokes of the scalpel the tendinous expansion of the abdominal muscle is to be laid bare; after which a finger should be introduced as far as Poupart's ligament, between the tendinous expansion and the tumour, where the latter rises upon the former. The ligament being thus ex- posed, a hernia-director is guided under it by the finger into the femo- ral ring, the margin of which may be safely and easily divided in an upward direction with a common probed bistoury, and the taxis applied in the usual way. Should the margin of the ring have formed the stricture, the taxis for the most part succeeds very readily, and the operation is completed in a very short time. But should the stricture be caused by the bands of fascia propria referred to, the director will have passed over them as it entered the femoral ring, in which case any amount of division in an upward direction will be of no avail. When the taxis does not succeed readily, these bands of fascia may generally be suspected to be the cause of failure. The fact may be made suffi-