EFFUSION OF SEKUM AND (EDEMA. 4G glottidis, and the so-called acute hydrocephalus; and some subacute inflammations of the serous membranes. In patients of a lax, flabby habit of body, and in parts of loose and cellular structure, as the pre- puce, eyelids, and scrotum, inflammation always produces more of this effect than in those of a flrmer texture. The serous liquid effused in consequence of inflammation is, as Mr. Paget observes, not the merely albuminous liquid which is commonly known by that name, and which is exuded in passive dropsy, but is in reality liquor sanguinis, and contains a variable quantity of fibrine; as may be readily proved by the spontaneous coagulation which takes place in the so-called serum exhaled from the skin under a blister of cantha- rides. It is difficult to explain why the effusion remains within the body, as it may for many days and even weeks, without the fibrine separating and becoming solid. The so-called inflammatory serous effusion may terminate in four ways:—1st, It usually becomes quickly absorbed; an event which is hastened by such purgatives and diuretics and tonics as tend to drain the blood of impure materials, and give vigour to the circulation, and by bandages and other means of local stimulation. 2ndly. In some cases it resists absorption for a long period, or altogether; of which hydrocele, some cases of hych othorax, hydrarthus, and hydrocephalus, afford ex- amples. 3rdly. The librine may slowly separate from the serum, and solidify, causing a dougliy indolent thiclvening of the cellular tissue, the treatment of which will be mentioned at the end of the ninth chaptei'. 4thly. The serum efl'nsed may distend the cellular tissue, so as to interfere with the nutrition of the skin ; which may be remedied by making punctures with a needle, and allowing it to ooze gradually out. Of the manner in which serous effusion may prove fatal to life, in the oedema glottidis and hydrocephalus, it is not our purport to speak at present. (Edema is the name given to the swelling caused by the presence of serum, whether inflammatory or dropsical, in the cellular tissue. It is a soft, inelastic, diffused swelling, wliich pits on pressure, that is, retains for a time the pit or mark made by the pressure of the finger. If (Edematous limbs become inflamed from any cause, the skin is exceed- ingly liable to ulcerate or slough. The causes of oedema, which most concern the surgeon, are the pressure of cancerous, aneurismal, and other tumours on the great veins of a limb, and obstruction of the veins by phlebitis. A raised position, moderate support by bandages, and punctures made with a common sewing-needle, to let the serum exude, are the most rational palliative measures.