666 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. pression will be found a useful means of reducing the swelling, and supporting the dilated vessels. The affected testicle is grasped and separated from its fellow, and then is encircled with strips of adhesive plaster, which are to be applied regularly and as tightly as the patient can bear; the first strap being applied round the spermatic cord im- mediately above the testicle, and the other downwards in succession, slightly overlapping each other.* Acute inflammation of the testicle is treated by Mr, Henry Smith by simply making a deep puncture with a thin sharp knife into the body oi-' the testis. By this incision a small quantity of serum and a few drachms of blood are emitted, and almost instantaneous relief is given to the pain. Scarcely any other means beyond a little aperient medicine, or the use of a cooling lotion are employed. Mr..-Smith is of opinion that the efficacy of this plan of treatment is due mainly to the tension being taken off, the compressed tubes of this testicle through the free division of the tunica albuginea, although some amount of relief must result from the direct removal of blood from this inflamed part. II. Chronic Inflammation [Sarcocele) is known by more or less hardness, swelling, tenderness, and occasional pain. Very often it com- mences in the epididymis. It may be a sequel of acute inflammation, or may be caused by disease in the urethra, which should always be looked for, and treated if found. It sometimes depends on a syphilitic taint, which will be probable, if the patient has the aspect of secondary syphilis, if the pain is principally severe at night, and if there are secondary venereal affections of other parts: chronic rheumatism is often a cause. It very often, in its latter stages, is accompanied with some degree of effusion into the tunica vaginalis (Jiydro-sarcocele). It may be distinguished from cancer by the distinction between testis and epididymis not being lost; by its often affecting both testes; by the greater uniformity and smoothness of the swelling, its slower pro- gress, and less amount of pain and superficial vascularity. As it increases, the tumour softens in parts, thus again presenting similarity to cancer; but when it softens it is not so large as soft cancer would be. On examination, the testicle is found to contain a yellow exudation, which is both interspersed in its substance, and also, according to Sir B. Brodie and Mr. Curling, is deposited in the tubuli seminiferi, and may be found extending into the vas deferens. Treatment.—So far as regards the part—rest; a suspensory ban- dage ; occasional leeching; or cold lotion; or iodine paint; or blisters; or Scott's ointment, with pressure by strips of plaster. The constitu- tional treatment requires care and discrimination. In some uncom- plicated, and in some syphilitic cases, it is expedient to administer mercury very gently ; in other cases, corrosive sublimate with bark or * This practice, which was first recommended by Frickp, of Hamburg, was adopted by Ricord, and introduced into tliis country by Mr. Acton and Mr. Langston Parlcer. See also T. Blizard Curling on Diseases of tlie Testis, 2nd edit., Lond., 1856 ; Caesar Hawkins, Lond. Med. Gaz., JS.S., vol. iv., p. 943.