389 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. wards, the patient recovering with permanent deformity, but nothing worse.* But it more frequently hap- pens in fracture and dislocation of the vertebras, that the spinal cord is compressed or lacerated, and the parts below the seat of injury deprived of their nervous influence ; and in these cases the symptoms vary, according to the level of the injury. If the injury affect one of the lumbar or lower dorsal vertebrce, the legs and lower part of the trunk are palsied and insensible, the penis is erect, the faeces are discharged involuntarily, owing to palsy of the sphincter ani; but the urine cannot be voided volun- tarily, owing to palsy of the mus- cular coat of the bladder. Imme- diately after the injury, the secre- tion of urine is diminished, but in a few days it becomes copious, ammoniacal, and offensive, and the mucous coat of the bladder in- flames, and secretes a quantity of viscid adhesive mucus. The bovv'els are distended with wind, and obstinately costive; in protracted cases the evacuations become black, treacly, and extremely offensive. The temperature of the palsied parts at first rises—in one case so high as 111° F.—but afterwards sinks to the natural level, or below it. In some few cases, in which the spinal cord is not entirely compressed or lacerated, the patient may retain some degree of sensation or motion, or may suffer from painful spasms of the legs ; but in general the loss of feeling and motion is complete. If the fracture or dislocation be high in the back, or at the lower part of the neck, there will, in addition to the above symptoms, be palsy of one or both arms, and great difficulty of breathing, especially of expi- ration, because the intercostal and abdominal muscles are palsied, and the diaphragm has no antagonist. If the injury be above the origin of the phrenic nerve (fourth or fifth cervical) the diaphragm will be palsied, and death instantaneous. The most frequent example of this is the dislocation of the odontoid process, which is sometimes caused by ulceration of its transverse ligament, sometimes by blows on the back of the head, or by lifting a child up by the head. * Guerin, L'Experience, Dec. 3, 1840 ; Shaw, Med. Gaz., vol. xvii., p. 936.