273 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. the bladder; to make incisions if urine is extravasated into the peri- nseum, as it will be if the urethra is lacerated by fractured portions of the rami of the ischium and pubes, and to treat any symptoms that may arise. If it can be borne, a broad belt may be passed round the pelvis ; and another under the nates, which might be attached to a pulley over the bed, so that the patient may raise the pelvis, without ex- erting any of the muscles attached to it. There are some cases of frac- ture of the OS innominatum pass- ing through the acetabulum, and caused by falls on the hip, which might be mistaken for fracture of the cei'vix femoris. For instance, in some cases related by Mr. Earle,f the foot was everted, and there was loss of prominence of the trochan- ter ; but there was no shortening, and the limb could be turned freely outwards, which motion is highly painful after fractui e ot the neck of the femur. In a case reported by Dr. George D. Gibb, of Portman Street, in which the right side of the pelvis was literally smashed, the leg was everted and shortened an inch and a half; the trochanter nearer the anterior superior spinous process than on the sound side. On rotating the limb, the right trochanter appeared to move in the segment of a smaller circle than the left, and crepitus was distinctly felt in the joint. The diagnosis will be aided by the crepitus felt on ap- plying the stethoscope to the ilium, and by examination per anum. It very rarely happens that the acetabulum and cervix femoris are both fractured. The patient must be kept on a fracture-bed. One of Mr. Earle's cases was cured in eight weeks, Dr. Gibb's in sixteen.^ Fracture of the os coccijgis, or of the lower extremity of the sacrum, may be caused by violent kicks or falls ; the former may occur during parturition to women who have childi'en after the coccyx is united to the sacrum. The loose portions must be replaced by introducing the finger within the rectum. The patient should keep in bed, and the bowels must be kept relaxed, so that no disturbance may be occasioned by hard stools. XI. Fractures of the Femur present many varieties, which must be carefully studied ; because, as Pott observes, " they so often * Fractured pelvis. St. Mary"s Museum. t Earle on Fractures of the Pelvis, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix.; see also case Ixxi. in the last edition of Sir A. Cooper on Fractures and Dislocations. J British American Journal, Sept. 1849.