584 UMBILICAL HERXIA. ciently clear by introducing the finger -upon the neck of the sac, under Poupart's ligament, while the body of the sac is pressed between the fingers and thumb of the other hand, when it will be discovered that no impulse is communicated to it by such pressure. By a little attention the bands may be detected crossing the neck of the sac from half to three-quarters of an inch below the ring, and may be divided by insi- nuating the nail of the forefinger of the left hand under them from above, and by carrying the point of a probed bistoury along the nail, with its blunt edge towards the sac. The division is made by the surgeon drawing the bistoury away from the sac towards himself, a proceeding which, if properly performed, avoids all danger of wound- ing the sac or its contents."* 3. Mr. Gay's operation^ respecting which Mr. Fergusson says em- phatically that he scarcely ever performs any other for crural hernia, and that, " if the sac is not opened, it is the nearest reasonable approach to the taxis that surgery has yet made," is thus performed: An inci- sion, rather more than an inch long, is made'near the inner side of the neck of the tumour. The superficial fascia having been divided, the forefinger (of the left hand if the hernial tumour is on the right side, and vice versa) is to be passed through this wound, along and close to the side of the hernial tumour, to its neck. On the finger, a histouri Gache is to be passed through the cribriform fascia, and through the crural canal to the ring. " By the least amount of force, and with the aid of a little gentle compression of the inner side of the tumour by the finger, the point of the bistoury may be insinuated between the sac and the pubic margin of the ring; the edge of the knife is then to be turned towards the pubes, and by projecting the blade, the seat of stricture in that dii-ection may be effectively divided." If, after this, and after the division of any other stricture that may be felt around the neck of the sac, the hernia cannot be reduced, the incision can be en- larged, and the opei-ation of opening the sac, as usually directed, be performed, t SECTION VIII.—THE UMBILICAL, VENTRAL, AND OTHER REMAINING SPECIES OP HERNIA. I. Umbilical Hernia—(exomphalos)—is most frequent in chil- dren soon after birth because of their incomplete development. It is also not uncommon in women wlio have frequently been pregnant, although, in many of the so-called umbilical hernias in adults, the her- nial aperture is really not at the umbilicus, but a little on one side of it. The coverings of this hernia are skin, superficial fascia, and sac ; they are always very thin, and not unfrequently the sac is adherent to its contents. In infants the presence of a sac is not so well marked. Treatment.—If reducible, and the patient an infant, the plan recom- * Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi., p. 112. f On Femoral Ruptures, with a new mode of operating, &c,, by John Gay, Lond., 1848.