FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 266 teres minor; a deep groove can be felt between the fractured tuberosity and the head ot the bone ; the latter of which can be felt to move in its socket when the elbow is rotated, and the whole limb can be moved in any direction by the surgeon. All of the preceding fractures, even including the fracture of the anatomical neck, usually unite firmly by bone; for though fracture at this part would seem likely to deprive the head of the bone of all vas- cular connection and means of support, yet probably some ligamentous bands, which are sufficient for the purpose, remain untorn: in cases of impaction there is no difficulty. Yet the patient should be informed that some deformity is likely to remain, and some loss of motion, though time and use will go far to restore the latter. (5.) In fracture of the cervix humeri, with dislocation, the head of the bone can be felt in the axilla, if the arm be raised ; and it can be felt not to move when the elbow is rotated. The arm is shortened, and the broken extremity of the shaft can be perceived to move under the acromion. In treating this peculiar form of injury, it is generally found impossible to restore the head of the bone to its place; but the broken summit of the shaft must be brought into the glenoid cavity, and there be retained by a figure-of-8 bandage, and by keeping the humerus close to the side. Treatment of Fractured Humerus.—In all cases it is advisable that the patient be confined to bed for a week or a fortnight, and par- ticularly if the fractui'e be at the upper extremity of the bone; which latter accident will probably be followed by great pain and swelling, and require leeches, fomentations or cold lotions, purgatives, and opiates. The hand and forearm must be well and evenly bandaged, to prevent oedema, and the fracture be set, by steadying the shoulder, whilst the elbow is drawn downwards. Next, a long carefully-padded hollow splint should be placed on the inner side of the limb, bearing well against the axilla and the internal condyle, a second on the outer side from the acromion to the outer condyle, and perhaps a third and fourth, shorter, of pasteboard, before and behind. These must be fastened by bands of firm webbing, buckled. Then the arm being placed easily by the side,* a firm broad band must be passed round the body, so as to confine the elbow to the side, and a sling put on, en- veloping the hand and wrist only, to relieve the weight of the hand and forearm comfortably, but not to thrust up the elbow. In all cases the surgeon should take care to have the parts well washed with soap and water before the splints are put on, and when- ever they are shifted; otherwise the confined perspiration may cause an intolerable itching, which tempts the patient at night to loosen the bandages. No wise man neglects trifles. In cases of fracture of the surgical neck above the insertion of the * In fracture of the humerus, just below the insertion of the deltoid, that muscle Is apt to DJake the upper fragment project; but if the surgeon take care that the limb hang easily by the side of the body, this will soon cease.—Vincent, p. 13.