xi PREFACE. cobwebs, bind the weaker men only. And we may rely on it, that there will be as little finality and stability in our views as in those of any of our predecessors. The great thing to be desired is, that each generation should reverentially con- sider and adopt such of its predecessor's labours as stand the test of experience instead of sweeping them contemptu- ously away and endeavouring to substitute an opposite and antagonistic universal theory. We need not be mere cellular pathologists, any more than mere vasculomotor pathologists, or humoralists. Each of these doctrines has some foundation, but to apply any one of them universally, would be to bring back the darkest ages of physic. But to return. To the mere idea of action, as taught by Hunter, there succeeded a revival of the ancient humoral prin- ciples, to diffuse which the learned Dr. Copland's Dictionary, and Dr. Ferguson's Essay on Puerperal Fever, largely contri- buted. During twenty years, 1842-1862, this humoral pa- thology reigned. Action was shown to be largely dependent on the composition and quantity of the acting matter. This humoral pathology was accepted by all the great teachers, and shed a wholesome light over practice. Whoever used means to purify, to enrich, or to improve the blood, acted on principles acknowledged in the earliest days of physic, and destined to last as long as humanity itself, because founded on the experience of every-day life. The modern use of the microscope, and the knowledge of life in the tissues, as distinct from vascular action, was first made popular by a modest Eeport of Mr. Paget's in 1842. That Report indicates, in my mind, the beginning of modern medicine. What a gap separates it from J. F. Palmer's admirable edition of Hunter, published in 1835 ! Goodsir's Anatomical and Pathological Observations, Redfern on Ulceration of Cartilage, Hughes Bennett on Inflammation, Toynbee on Non-Vascular Tissues, and Lionel Beale's Re- searches on Nutrition, and on the " germinal" and "formed" elements of the Tissues are all, as it were, steps to a kind of knowledge sure to bear good fruit. If there were a fault, in modern humoralism, it was that perhaps too much was still assigned to the blood in the genesis of disease, and too little to the tissues. Exudations were supposed to be pre-existing in the blood, and to be poured out into the tissues, and there to generate within themselves the elements of new cell-growth. The more modern " cellular pathology " would show, on the contrary, that "exudations" are the work of the existing cell elements of the tissues, fed perhaps by impure blood, or