232 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, ETC. months; so that the recent callus may not be stretched and lengthened, which would cause permanent weakness. VII. Sprains.—A sprain signifies a violent stretching of tendinous or ligamentous parts, with or without rupture of some of their fibres. It produces instant severe pain, often attended with faintness ; and great tumefaction and ecchymosis ; with subsequent weakness and stiff- ness. If the part is not kept at rest, or if the diet is intemperate, or the blood impure, and if the knee or some other large joint is affected, there will be great pain, inflammation, and fever, that may lead to serious or even fatal results. Treatment.—The most essential measure is perfect rest; and to in- sure this, the patient should go to bed, and if the part affected be the knee, it should be confined by a pasteboard splint. During the first day or two, the object is to allay pain, and to anticipate inflammatory effusion. Warm fomentations, henbane, an aperient, and plain diet are the measures. If inflammatory pain (that is, throbbing beat and swelling, not the mere pain of the injury) should be developed, leeches should be applied ; otherwise not. Then the best thing is to protect the part by a firm bandage, so that the reparative process shall not be disturbed ; and once daily to foment it well with hot water, and rub it with a stimulating liniment. If after a sprain, the part injured is liable to fits of inflammation, and very slow in recovering its powers, treat it as if chi'onic rheumatism (p. 44) by iodide of potassium. VIII. Acute Inflammation of the Sheaths of Tendons and Fascia is generally caused by punctured wounds, especially by punc- ture of the fliscia of the biceps during venesection; and by punctures of the fingers, inflammation of the tendinous sheaths of which is called thecal abscess ; paronychia gravis, or tendinous whitlow. It is attended with severe, tensive, throbbing pain ; exquisite tenderness ; slight, but tense and resisting swelling; and very great constitutional disturbance. It may lead to suppuration ; the matter extending itself along muscles and tendons, from the fingers to the forearm, causing sloughing of the tendons, severe irritative fever, life in danger, and the limb left stiff and useless. Treatment.'—If the pain and tension increase, notwithstanding the employment of leeches, fomentations, and purgatives, free incisions must be made through the inflamed parts; in order to give vent to matter, if it have formed, or by creating a free discharge of blood to prevent its formation.—See Whitlow. IX. Contraction and Rigidity of the fasciae are exemplified in contractio7i of the palmar fa sciw.—See the Index. X. Tumours of Tendon and Ligament.—Small fibrous tumours, about the size of a pea, are apt to form on the tendons or fasciae. Sometimes they follow a sprain. The author knows an eminent musi- cian, on whose palmar fascia such small tumours appeared after a pain- fully long practice at the piano; but they often arise without any spe- cific exciting cause, probably from some rheumatic taint. The iodide of potassium is the best remedy, F. 94.