499 INFLAMMATION OF THE TONSIL. the alveolus must be plugged in the following way: One end of a long thin strip of lint is to be firmly pressed into it, so as to come into con- tact with its very bottom, and the remainder in successive portions is to be forced in till the socket is filled up to the level of the gum. A compress should then be placed on the part, thick enough to be pressed upon by the antagonist teeth, and the mouth should be kept firmly closed by a bandage passing from under the chin to the vertex. . IX. Tartar, or salivary calculus, is an earthy matter deposited on the teeth from the saliva. It is found most abundantly on the superior molars and inferior incisors, obviously because those teeth are nearest the orifices of the salivary ducts. If suffered to accumulate, it causes inflam- mation and absorption of the gums, and gradual loosening of the teeth. Treatment.—The deposit of this substance is to be prevented by cleaning the teeth twice a day with a soft tooth-powder (precipitated chalk is the best) and a little soap, and by the use of a quill toothpick. The hairs of the tooth-brush should be soft, and not too closely set; so that they may penetrate the better into the interstices of the teeth. When any quantity of the tartar has accumulated, it should be removed by the scaling instruments. The edge or point of the instrument is to be introduced between the concretion and the gum, so as to detach the former in flakes ; in the meanwhile a finger or thumb, guarded with a towel, should be pressed firmly on the cutting edges of the teeth, so that they may not be loosened by the force necessarily employed. Sometimes a small portion of this substance is found sticking in the orifice of one of the salivary ducts, and creating great discomfort by its irritation. It may easily be removed. X. Inflammatory Softening and Absorption, vulgarly called scurvy of the gums, generally affects middle-aged or elderlv people, and may be a consequence of the accumulation of tartar, but more frequently depends on a congested state of the liver and bowels. The gums are swolleUj spongy, exceedingly tender, and subject to con- stant aching pain, and they bleed on the slightest touch. It" the disease proceeds, they separate from the teeth ; the alveoli gradually become absorbed, and the teeth loosen, and at last fall out. These consequences are sometimes speedy, and are attended with suppuration in the alveoli; but more frequently they are slow, the teeth dropping out one by one in the course of years. Treatment.—The gums should be unloaded by deep and free scari- fications and repeated leechings: the bowels should be well cleared bv a course of purgatives ; and gargles should be employed to correct the secretions of the mouth, and excite the vessels to contract. Whilst there is much pain and softness, the soothing gargle, F. 113. Subse- quently, recourse may be had to F. 109, 111, &c. XI. Gum-Boil {alveolar abscess, parulis) is a small abscess com- mencing in the socket of a tooth, and bursting through the gum, or sometimes through the cheek. It is usually caused by the irritation of a dead or carious tooth. In neglected cases, extensive exfoliation of the bone may follow.