LITHOTRITV. 649 Heurteloup's instrument was next improved and simplified bv Costello, who seems to have reinvented the two sliding blades which Weiss had designed eight years previously. Mr. Oldham, a gentleman attached to the Bank of Ireland, devised the oval slit in the female blade, for the escape of detritus, shown in tigs. 1 and 3. In 1834, Mr. Fergusson employed the hand-rack and pinion represented in the above cut. The advantages of the rack and pinion are that the degree of force can be felt by the hand, and that pressure can be alternated with per- cussion. The latest instruments, however, have a screw, with such modifications as enable the male blade to be drawn back, without reversing the screw. This was devised by Civiale, made by Charriere, and improved by Weiss and Coxeter. The shaft also is smaller than the jaws, so that it can be moi-e readily manipulated in a small urethra; the instruments also are of two kinds—the larger and heavier, with fenestrated female blade, for crushing a stone into fragments—the lighter, such as No. 2 in the preceding page, for further crushing frag- ments into powder. The account we can find room for of lithotrity is most imperfect. It is an operation requiring the greatest possible perfection of diagnosis so as to fix on the cases best adapted for it. It demands enormous experi- ence, and involves so many small practical details, that it is quite out of our power to describe them. We can but give a meagre sketch, and must refer the reader to Mr. H. Thompson's work on Lithotomy and Lithotrity, as the fullest, newest, and ablest work on the subject. The Preparatory Treatment necessary consists in correcting any de- tectable disorder of the digestive oi-gans or general health, and allaying any irritation of the urinary organs, by hip-baths, opiates, and repose. The surgeon should also by bougies dilate the urethra, and by sound- ing estimate the size of the stone, and the capacity and degree of irri- tability of the bladder; for so long as that is very irritable the ope- ration must be delayed. The best patients are those who have a urethra of full size ; a blad-