797 EXCISION OF JOINTS. also been extirpated by Mr. Syme for tumours. It is laid bare by a |— incision: the acromion sawn through, the levator anguli, trapezius, and serratus divided, the mass lifted, the neck of the bone sawn, and the deltoid and remaining muscles divided. The sternum is occasionally perforated, and removed piecemeal. The ribs when carious present no difficulty. The pleura is usually thickened, except in the case of tumours. Portions of the ossa innominata have been taken away. The coccyx may require to be cut out for disease, or for neuralgia; and for the latter malady it is sometimes necessary to make a subcuta- neous incision, so as to isolate the bone from all the surrounding tis- sues. Portions of each of the long bones are removed from time to time. Mr. Jones has removed the entire ulna ; the whole or greater portion of the fibula and radius, and considerable portions of the femur and tibia have also been taken away, in cases in which otherwise ampu- tation would have been the only resource. II. In like manner, in cases in which joints are hopelessly diseased, modern surgeons have substituted the cutting out the portions of diseased bone, for the cutting off the whole limb; and the results have been encouraging. It seems to be established, that excision is, on the whole, safer than amputation ; less violence is done to the body, fewer great arteries and nerves are injured, and fewer large veins are divided. Lastly, the patient is left with an imperfect limb, it is true, but with one, which, in most cases, is highly useful. What we say of excision for disease, applies with double force to excision for injury.* III. The elbow joint is one, the excision of which has been now for some years an established rule. The opei-ation is performed thus. The patient is on his back chloroformed, and the arm held out in a prone posture by two assistants, one of whom holds the upper arm, the other the fore-arm. An incision through skin and subjacent textures is then made on the ulnar side of the dorsum of the joint; its centre about the level of the olecranon ; its length from two to four inches ; and it should be so planned as not to go into the groove where the ulnar nerve lies. A second incision, parallel to this, is made on the radial side, and a third transversely, severing the triceps from the olecranon. The ulnar nerve is gently drawn inwards and protected, the lateral ligaments severed, the elbow forcibly bent, so as to turn out the ends of the bones. The olecranon may now be cut off with forceps, and then it will be seen clearly what other portions of bone * A grenadier before Sebastopol received a wound in the popliteal space. All that was to be seen was a small orifice with inverted edges. On introducing the finger, the direction of the wound was found to be immediately forwards; pain was felt in the inner side of the head of the tibia, the joint was half bent, and could scarcely be moved. Hence it was presumed that the ball had lodged in the joint. On the third day amputation was performed. The ball was found impacted in the semilunar cartilage over the inner head of the tibia. On the third day after the amputation, secondary haemorrhage from the femoral artery came on, and the patient quickly died. Dr. M'Cowan, who reports the case, says, very justly, that if excision had been performed as he himself had intended, at all events the immediate cause of the patient's death would have been avoided.—l/eciicai Times, and Gaz., March 1, 1856.