458 DISEASES OF THE EAR. with liquor potassas, or iodide of potassium, may be given with benefit, or cod-liver oil ; and in obstinate cases chloride of arsenic. (F. 97.) X. BONY" TUMOURS sometimes form in and almost entirely occlude the meatus. Much relief may be given by the careful removal of ac- cumulations of cerumen, &c., behind them, and by iodine locally applied. XI. Sebaceous tumours are met with in the meatus and tympanum, and are very apt to prove fatal even in early life. They contain masses of epidermoid scales surrounded by a distinct cyst, and often perforate the bone, and press upon the brain. They escape observation, inasmuch as they seem to give rise to very few symptoms. When discovered they should be laid open, the contents evacuated, and the cyst withdrawn.* SECTION III.—AFFECTIONS OF THE TYMPANUM AND INTERNAL EAR. I. Acute Inflammation of the membrana tympani is so closely connected with inflammation of the tympanal cavity, or otitis in- terna, both in its causes, symptoms, and consequences, that we may treat of them together. The usual causes are cold, especially exposure to currents of cold air ; or sea-bathing ; or violent syringing or probing, or otherwise irritating an inflamed ear. These inflammations may also come on during the course of fever, and most particularly during scar- latina, and may be caused by rheumatism and gout. Symptoms.—Sudden and intense pain in the ear ; often so excruci- ating as to produce delirium; increased by coughing, sneezing, and swallowing; generally coming on first at night, and always worse at night; feeling of fulness in the ear; tenderness and soreness in its vicinity; tinnitus aurium, that is, unnatural noises of various sorts, heard by the patient; deafness, partial or complete (except that in some cases there is morbid sensibility to sound), and violent fever. On examination during the first stage the meatus is found more or less red, swelled and tender, and dry ; the membrana tympani dull, opaque, and vascular. If the acute symptoms go on from bad to worse, suppura- tion occurs within the tympanum and mastoid cells, with most in- tense pain, and possibly facial paralysis ; and at last the membrane ulcerates or bursts, and allows of the dischaige of pus from the external meatus. In other more severe or neglected cases inflammation within the cranium may occur and prove fatal. See p. 377. In less severe cases, the membrane may be left thickened and opaque, and the cavity blocked up by adhesions; or there may remain an obstinate discharge, which may give rise to caries of the bone, and mischief within the cra- nium hereafter. Treatment.—This disease must be combated by vigorous antiphlo- gistic measures. Leeches should be repeatedly applied both to the mas- toid bone and in the depression immediately below the auricle between the jaw and mastoid bone, and by means of a leech glass to the orifice of the meatus itself. Fomentations and poultices should be applied, * Toynbee, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xliv.