DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 318 the OS pisifbrme dislocated hj the action of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. Treatment.—Co\d aflfusion, friction, and mechanical siipport. Dislocations of the thumb, fingers, and toes, are difficult of redaction, in consequence of the strength and tightness of their lateral ligaments, and the small size of the part from which extension can be made. A firm hold may be obtained by means of a piece of tape (spread with adhesive plaster where it is in contact with the skin) fastened with the knot called the clove hitch, represented in the above figure. But it is a good plan to place a part of the tape round the head of the dis- located bone, so as to pull it straightforvvards into its place. Exten- sion should be made towards the palm, so as to relax the flexor muscles. But, " before the reduction has been effected," says Mr. Listen, " it has been in some cases even found necessary to divide one of the ligaments; the external is most easily }-eached; it is cut across by introducing a nari'ow-bladed and lancet-pointed knife through the skin at some distance, and directing its edge against the resisting part." In compound dislocation of the first phalanx of the thumb on the metacarpal bone, the head of the latter should be sawn off if the bone cannot be replaced and retained easily; and in compound dislocation of the second phalanx, it is better to saw off the head of the first if it pro- ject through the wound. VII. Dislocation of the Ribs.—The costal cartilages may be torn from the extremity of the ribs, or from the sternum ;—and the posterior extremity of the ribs may be dislocated from the spine by falls on the back : but these accidents are very rare. A case is lelated in which the heads of the last two ribs were driven forwards from the spine, in a boy of eleven, by a violent blow on the back ; abscess formed and the case terminated fatally.* The body of the sternum has also been dislocated in front of the manubrium, and the ensiform cartilage is sometimes separated. In all these cases, the same local and constitu- tional ti-eatment must be adopted as was prescribed for fracture. VIII. Dislocations of the Hip-Joint.—There are four principal varieties of this dislocation. 1st. The dislocation upwards ; in which * Dublin Med. Press, 3rd Feb. 1841.