CARTILAGINOUS TUMOUR. 105 may be a complication of most tumours which have attained enor- mous size ; sometimes exists alone.* VIIL Colloid, or Gelatiniform Matter is a substance closely resembling glue, or jelly, of various degrees of firmness and trans- parency ; and is often found in cysts in the thyroid gland, and in the ovaries and prostate. The writer has several times found it in the substance of fibro-cellular tumoui's; and it may be found amidst the products of chronic inflammation of the pleura and peritonaium. Moreover, a glue-like matter is a characteristic of one form of cancer. (See Colloid Cancer.') IX. Recurrent Fibroid Tumours.—Any tumour may recur; and it is almost childish to give a name from their ])roperty. But it may be noticed, that those tumours are most likely to lecur which attain largest bulk with most imperfect development—that a tumour of untbi med nuclei is more likely to recur than one of true tibrous tissue ; and that tumours which have been cut out and removed five, six, or seven times, have in each reappearance presented a more immature and "malignant" state of their elements. SECTION IV.—cartilaginous AND OSSEOUS TUMOURS. I. The Enchondroma, or cartilaginous tumour, consists of round masses of cartilage, embedded in fibrous membrane. It may be of various degrees of firmness ; almost as soft as the vitreous humour, so soft as to be mistaken and punctured for ganglion, or as firm as ordi- nary cartilage. It consists microscopically of cartilage cells embedded in an intercellular hyaline sub- stance ; but there are very many varieties, not only in the quan- tity, consistence, and transpa- rency of the intercellular sub- stance, but also in the num- ber and arrangement and size of the cells, and of the nuclei. Generally speaking, the cells are numerous, and loosely con- nected to the hyaline substance. They are round or oval; from Too to -f3^o inch in breadth; and the cell-wall may be com- pletely distinct from, or inse- parably blended with, the inter- cellular substance. The nuclei are single, sometimes double ; round, or oval; rendered paler by acetic acid ; with one or two nucleoli; some shrivelled or full of oil-granules; some throwing out projections, like those of cartilage in process of ossification, * See Canton, Pathological Trans., vol. xiii. p. 238. t Microscopic characters of enchondroma. Nuclei granular.