GANGRENOUS INFLAMMATION. 79 such as cerat. calaminse, or solution of avgenti nitras, or a cerate of tur- pentine, which may be melted and poured in warm." If, however, there be any recurrence of pain, or the least reappearance of the disease, the acid is again and again to be applied till a healthy action is restored. Many other caustics and antiseptics have been used for the same purpose, as arsenic, creosote, iodine, &c. The French prefer the actual cautery. Some surgeons have been successful with much milder ap- plications; as solution of opium, and even saturated solution of sugar. But the Americans, from their large experience in their unhappy war, prefer bromine, applied so as to saturate the diseased surface,* As for the general treatment;—the patient sliould be narcotized by chloroform during the application of the caustic. Opium should be given in sufficient doses to procure sleep at night, and to relieve pain during the day. If the disease, as observed by Hennen, begin with shivering and fever, the treatment may be begun with purgatives, as directed for erysipelas, p. 63, to which this disease is most nearly allied. Bandages should be applied to a stump^ so as to check the tendency to exuda- tion. The same ruies are applicable also as regards diet, since it is on wine or brandy, beef-tea, and other forms of nourishment, and yellow bark with nitric acid, that the surgeon's chief dependence is to be placed. Change to a pure dry air, free ventilation, and destruction of all putrescent matters, need not be more than mentioned. XI. Gangrenous Inflammation of Muscle, as described by Dr. Lyons,! from his observations in the Crimea, generally affected soldiers who had received wounds, or suffered amputation in the thigh. With little or no swelling or pain, or change in the skin, the muscles gradually melted down into a soft, putrid, shreddy mass, and were dis- charged with immense quantities of fetid ichor. Indistinct febrile symptoms, with diarrhoea, accompanied the local disorder. The patients were generally exhausted by haemorrhage and discharge in the course of from two to six weeks. XII. Malignant Pustule (Charbon) is a contagious and very fatal disease, common in France, but almost unknown in England. It com- mences as a little dark-red spot, with a stinging or pricking pain, on which there soon appears a pustule or vesicle seated on a hard inflamed base. When this is opened, it is found to contain a slough, black as charcoal; and the sloughing rapidly spreads, involving skin and cellular tissue, and sometimes the muscles beneath. The account given of this malady by the continental writers is ex- ceedingly confused ; but it appears certain that it is caused by infection or contagion from horned cattle, which at certain seasons are affected with a precisely similar disease ; and it further appears that, like hos- pital gangrene, it may commence in two ways:—By general infection * Ample evidence of the superiority of bromine is given by Frank H. Hamilton, Am. Med. Times, Oct. 31, 1863, and by Drs. Moses and Thomson, Am. J. Med. Sc., April, 1864. ]t arrests the disease when nitric acid fails, and effects cures quickly. Dr. Hachenbach advises turpentine, Am. Med. Times, May 28, 1864. t Report on the Pathology of the Army in the East, Lond. 1856.