89 SENILE MORTIFICATION. and horribly painful. After its first appearance, the actual gangi-ene will generally be preceded by a dark-red congestive inflammation. The dead parts become t^hrunk, dry, and hard ; and when the disease makes a temporaiy pause, which it frequently does, they slowly slough away, —and the wound may heal; but a fresh accession of gangrene mostly supervenes before any progress has been made towards cicatrization. In this way the patient may live several winters, but often sinks exhausted with the nocturnal pain before the whole of the foot is destroyed. Pathology.—This disease is supposed to be caused by degeneration and obstruction of the arteries. Hence the foot is imperfectly nourished ; it is weak and liable to pain and numbness if heated after being cold ; and a chilblain, or any other trivial source of inflammation, is sure to terminate in gangrene. A similar kind of gangrene sometimes attacks the skin of the leg. This affection mostly happens to old persons of the better class, espe- cially if they have been great eaters. They are generally found to have lost their hair and teeth, and their face and hands betray a languid circulation. It mostly attacks men. Mr. James,* however, has seen it in a woman of forty-two, who had disease of the heart; and Brodie in a man of thirty-six. Treatment.—It seems agreed now, that this disease should not be treated on a stimulating plan. If there should be any vivid inflamma- tion and a good pulse the patient should be kept in bed; the bowels should be opened; the diet be restricted to fish and broth; and Dover's powder be given at bed-time, to allay pain. But should the health be feeble the diet must be more generous. The foot may be wrapped in lint, and covered with oiled silk, Brodie recommends a piece of calamine dressing to be laid on the part, and the whole limb to be loosely wrapped in repeated folds of cotton wool, and afterwards sewed up in a silk handkerchief. If there is much discharge this may be changed every second day; if not it may remain for a week. Am- putation is inadmissible.f IV. White Gangrene of the Skin.—In this curious affection, a circular portion of the skin, generally of the arm, becomes p:-iinful, and suddenly mortifies; becoming hard, white, and dry, and showing the red streak of the vessels with the blood dried up in them. It some- times spreads by the gangrene of a circle of the surrounding skin. The cause is quite unknown, and the treatment must depend upon the cir- cumstances of the case. The possibility that the disease may be caused by the application of some strong acid, for purposes of imposture, should be borne in mind. * James on Inflammation, pp. 445 and 552. t Vide Sir B. Brodie's Lectures on Mortitication, Med. Gaz. vol. xxvii., and Mayo's Patliology, p. 231; Syme's Contributions to the Pathology and Practice of Surgery, Edin. 1848, p. 5.