734 SLINGS AND BANDAGING. relaxation of the mucous membrane of the fauces; in hysterical neu- ralgia,—these agents may be resorted to. Electricity is used by passing slight shocks from a Leyden jar or by putting the patient on an insu- lating stool in connexion with the prime conductor, and taking sparks from him. Galvanism is most applicable in asphyxia from poisoning or hanging, when the affusion of cold water and other stimulants fail to excite the action of respiration. The best method is, to place one wire in the nape of the neck and the other at the pit of the stomach ; or, if the sensibility is so feeble that this fails to take effect, a needle may be inserted deeply between the eighth and ninth ribs on either side, so as to reach the diaphragm, and the current be passed between them. The surgeon may employ a constant current, from a battery ; or the interrupted, to and fro series of small shocks, known as Faradi- zation. The latter is the proper form for exciting the heart or dia- phragm. It may be obtained from a large single-cell battery on Smee's or Daniell's principle, with a coil wound round a piece of soft iron, which is thereby converted into a temporary magnet, and with a contriv- ance for interrupting the circuit, and giving a stream of gentle shocks. Or from a magneto-galvanic battery, in which the force of a permanent magnet is employed to create a stream of shocks by a rotatory apparatus.* XIV. Galvano-puncture.—In obstinate neuralgia it is a good plan to insert two needles deeply, at two points in the course of the nerve, and to pass a galvanic current through them. CHAPTEK IV. SLINGS AND BANDAGING. I. Slings.—The importance of a proper application of these supports to the extremities is often overlooked. For the upper extremity three kinds of sling are appropi iate for inju- ries of the different bones. A long, soft, stout silk handkerchief should be chosen if possible. If the upper arm be broken or injured the sling should support the wrist only. There should be no upward pressure upon the elbow, for that would tend to displace the broken fragments and shorten the arm. In fracture of the/ore-am, the handkerchief should, on the contrary, be spread out along the arm from the fingers to the elbow, so as to give equal support in its whole extent. In f]-acture of the clavicle, one end of the handkerchief (the outer) should pass obliquely aci'oss the back of the patient, and be tied to the front end over the opposite shoulder, hugging the elbow closely and drawing it well forward in front of the chest, at the same time covering the hand and holding it well up towards the opposite shoulder, so as to lift up the shoulder well and push it backward. The foot may be slung by means of a long and broad strip of calico passing in a loop round the neck, after the manner of a clergyman's * Consult Dr. Althaus on Paralysis, Neuralgia, and their Treatment, by Galvanisation and Faradisation, &c.; and Harry William Lobb on Galvanism, and on Treatment of Paralysis, &c.