340 ACUTE ARTERITIS AND EMBOLISM. SECTION V.—DEGENERATION AND INFLAMMATION OF ARTERIES * I. Degeneration of the arteries is a very common affection in advanced life, and is the cause not only of rupture, dilatation, and aneurysm, but probably of the dry gangrene of the aged, of softening of the brain, and of apoplexy. The first step in the process, in the larger arteries, seems to be thickening of the innermost coat in patches of variable size by an interstitial deposit of fibrine. The next step seems to be, the fatty degeneration of this fibrine into a so-called atheromatous or pappy mass, which, examined microscopically, is seen to consist of oil-globules, cholesterine, amorphous fragments, and earthy crystals. Then the fibrous coat becomes thin and loses its structural chaiacter, and also undergoes fatty degeneration; the elastic fibres being se- parated and replaced by fat, and losing their curling properties : mean- while the outer or cellular coat becomes thickened and vascular, as if from chronic inflammation. Instead of the fatty degeneration, the fibrine and coats of the vessel may undergo the calcareous or ossific; producing specks, or rings, or projecting spicula of calcareous or bony matter, or even converting the vessel into a rigid earthen tube. In the smaller vessels, especially of the brain, the middle coat loses its structural marks, and becomes studded with oil-globules or with earthy particles. II. Acute Arteritis and Embolism,—The cases described under this name were probably cases of embolism. From the venous system clots may be transported to the right side of the heart, and block the pulmonary arteries wholly or partially; if wholly, causing sudden deatli; if partially, producing gangrene, or " inflammation " of a portion of lung. The occurrence of pneumonia after wounds and operations is thus easily accounted for. Conversely on the left side of the heart, portions of fibrine, detached from its walls, may find their way into the arteries, and may be arrested in, and block them up, stopping off the current of the blood, and giving rise to very serious consequences ; for instance, to softening of the brain, if either of the cerebral arteries should be the seat of obstruction ; or to the disorganization of the organ supplied by smaller arteries; or, again, to the production of pyoemia, through the disintegration of the separated fibrine, and the admixture of its decomposing particles with the blood.t Allan of the Haslar Hospital, and Mr. Miller of Edinburgh, in Dr. Cormack's Journal for June and July, 1842. The stout porter of the St. George's, Hanover Square, workhouse, Mount Street, has this diathesis. * Guthrie, op. cit.; Mayo, Pathol., p. 447; Copland, Diet., Art. Arteries; Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, Lond. 1815, p. 5; Gulliver, M. C. T. xxv.; Brodie's Lectures; Edward Crisp on the Structure, Diseases, and Injuries of the Blood-vessels, Lond. 1847; Descriptive Catalogue of Pathological Specl- meus, in Museum of Royal Coll. of Surgeons, vol. iii. I W. Senhouse Kirkes, M.D., on Detachment of Fibrinous Deposits, &c., Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv. Cohn, ilber Embolischen Krankheiten; also Med. Times, 18G2.