INFLAMMATION. 28 sels of the part; thus, inflammation of the conjunctiva differs in appearance from that of the sclerotic. But it is still more influenced by the cause of the inflammation: thus the vivid blush of phlegmon, gradually fading into the natural hue, differs materially from the abrupt red, dusky patch of erysipelas. Moreover, the colour is often modified by the blood or haematine exuded into the inflamed part, as in boil and erythema nodosum; or by a peculiar condition of surface, as in syphilitica lepi'a: so that almost every inflammation has its own colour; and one—the phlegmasia alba dolens—is remarkable for having no colour at all. 4. The swelling is caused first by the hyperaemia, then by cell growth and matters exuded into the inflamed tissue. It may be hard and brawny as in carbuncle, or soft, so as to allow the pressure of the finger to make a pit. 5. That inflammation must impair function is obvious. Motion is difficult or impossible; sensations exaggerated; secretion diminished, and secreted liquids mixed with blood or serum, or fibrinous flakes. SECTION III.—ANALYSIS OF CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS—TRAU- MATIC, OR SYMPTOMATIC FEVER, OR FEVERISHNESS. The word fever is now so wedded (although very improperly) to certain species, as typhoid and typhus, that perhaps it is better to use the word pyrexia, or feverishncs>i, to express the sum of the consti- tutional symptoms attending acute inflammation. The relation of the constitutional symptoms to the local may be one of these three: 1. The constitutional symptoms may precede and cause the local: as in common idiopathic inflammations, erysipelas, pleurisy, pneu- monia, &c. 2. The constitutional symptoms may follow and be caused by the local; when the blood circulating through an injured part becomes contaminated by decaying animal matter, or by the in itation of the nerves ; as in the case of acute inflammation following an ill-closed and irritating wound. 3. The constitutional having been caused by the local malady, may again be the cause of other local diseases elsewhere—as in pyaemia, and secondary suppurations. Feverishness consists, as may be proved by experiment and by reason, (1.) in a change of the blood; (2.) in a series of operations for puri- fying the blood so changed ;—by increased oxygenation—by increased seci-etion—and by exudation—or by all three. SyMPTOMS.—1. The first in order of time is shivering •—trembling of the muscles, sensation of cold, and, in severe cases, blueness, and shrinking of the features, and the other signs of abstraction of heat from the body. Its real nature is unknown : but the student will do well to regard shivering as a most important symptom at any stage of any disease, inasmuch as, to use Hunter's words, it surely indicates