190 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. as a new and imported disease. The Fiench called it the Neapolitan Disease; but the Italians, and Germans, and English called it the French Disease ; the Dutch, who seem to have got it from the Spanish who then were in force in the Low Countries, called it the Spanish Disease; the Folanders called it the Disease of the Germans; and the Eussiaus the Disease of the Folanders; the Foituguese called it the Castilian ; the East Indians, Fortuguese; the Chinese called it the Canton Disease; the Turks called it the Disease of the Franks {i.e. of the Christians) ; and the Fersians the Disease of the Tui'ks. Its spread over Europe is traced by the writings of physicians, and by the regula- tions of municipal bodies. The parliament of Faris issued regulations of the most stringent sort, so early as March 6th, 1496, that is, within two years of its appearance at Naples, commanding all pei sons infected with the grossa variola, or Great Fox, to quit the city, and repair to a house provided for their reception at St. Germain les Frez. Dr. Simpson has given an account of the regulations established in Scotland in 1497 against the French Fox. The first medical author who wrote of it was Grundbeck, in 1496, Be Pestilentiali Scorra, sive Mala de Framos.* No fewer than thirteen other writers are enumerated whose works on the Morbus Gallicus are extant, and were published at Venice, Rome, Bologna, Leipsic, and Heidelberg, before the end of the year 1500. The first Englishman who published a book on it was William Clowes, in the year 1575 ; but before him, about 140 authors had written on the Continent, of whom about twelve were French, the remainder chiefly Italian and German. The name SypMlis was an invention of Fracastorius, who wrote a Latin poem De Morho Gallico, about the year 1520, and published it in 1536. He feigned that a shepherd named Syphilus was first infected with it through the anger of Apollo. The early writers recognized many ways in which the disease could be propagated ; thus Fallopius says: It affects certain particular parts of men's bodies such as first touch those of others therewith infected ; whether the pudenda as in copulation ; the lips, as in kissing or sucking; the nipples, by giving suck to an infected infant; and the infant by means of the distempered nurse receiving such infection from the nipple." Amatus Lusitanus (1552) gives the case of a man, " who ten years after an infection from which he believed himself cured, married a healthy woman by whom he had two healthy children; but some years after marriage she brought him a son, in whom this disease appeared, and a little after, she had an ulcer on the side of her nose: not being able to suckle her child, she put him out to a nurse, who soon afterwards was contaminated by the child's sucking of her; the nurse infecting her husband besides two other children of * Trans, of Epidemiological Society, vol. i., part 11., p. 144, published by Hardwicke, Piccadilly, 1862. An edict of the Town Council of Aberdeen, dated 21 April, 1497, recognises it as " the infirmity cumm out of Franche and Strang partis." One ten years later, calls it " the syknesse of Napilis." Edicts were issued at Edinburgh in Sept. 1497. It was then called Grand Gore, also French and Spanish Fox.