INGUINAL HERNIA. 566 flexure disappeared ; but it took two days to bring down dark green bile from above. If a patient with irreducible hernia be attacked by colic, or enteritis, or peritonitis, the case will present many of the features of strangula- tion. Yet it may perhaps be distinguished by noticing that the pain and tenderness did not begin at the neck of the sac, and are not more intense there than elsewhere. The diagnosis will be very obscure if the inflammation commences on the omentum or intestine in the sac. But the general rule is, when in doubt, operate. 4. " Strangulation may occur in a person the subject of double hernia, and a doubt may arise as to which is the hernia requiring operation. In such a case, the hernia that has existed the longest, and is the most tense, should be the one first subjected to the knife."* 5. Reduction en masse.—Lastly, the possibility of this accident should be remembered. (See page 563.) SECTION VI.—INGUINAL HERNIA. Definition.—Inguinal hernia is that which protrudes through one or both abdominal rings. Varieties.—There are four varieties. The oblique, direct, congenital, and encysted. 1. The oblique inguinal hernia is the most common. It takes precisely the same route as the testicle takes in its passage from the abdomen into the scrotum. It commences as a fulness or swelling at the situation of the internal abdominal ring, that is to say, a little above the centre of Poupart's ligament, next passes into the inguinal canal (and in this stage is called bubonocele), and if the protrusion increase, it projects through the external ring, and descends into the scrotum of the male, or labium of the female. The coverings of this hernia are, 1, Skin. 2, A thick layer of cellular tissue derived from the superficial fascia of the abdomen, in which the superficial epigastric artery ramifies. 3, The fascia spermatica externa, a tendinous layer, derived from the intercolumnar bands, a set of curved and transverse fibres, which connect the two margins of the external ring. Under this lies, 4, the cremaster muscle, sometimes called tunica communis. 5. Next comes the fascia propria vel infundibiUiformis, a cellular layer continuous with the fascia transversalis of the abdomen; and lastly, 6, the sac. The deep epigastric artery is always internal to the neck of the sac. The spermatic cord is generally behind the sac; but, in some lai'ge and direct cases, the parts which compose the spermatic cord are separated by the tumour, so that the vas deferens and sper- matic artery lie sometimes in front, sometimes on. either side of it. (See figs. 4 and 8, right side.) •2. The direct inguinal hernia usually protrudes before it the con- joined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, just * R. R. Robinson, on Complication of Hernia, Lend. Jour. Med., 1851.