714 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. Dr. Anstie, although he condemns the handkerchief, gives four cases in which patients were nearly killed because the apparatus did not work well. The simplest is Dr. Sibson's mask. This consists of a mask, cover- ing nose and mouth, constructed of thin flexible metal, so that it can be adjusted to a face of any form or size. It has attached to it a small cavity, within which is a piece of blotting-paper, on which the twenty minims of chloroform are dropped from time to time. Through this cavity the air is drawn i;i by the act of inspiration, bringing the chlo- roform vapour with it. A valve of vulcanized india-rubber permits the entrance of the air, but prevents its escape by the same route. Another valve opens to allow of the escape of the air that has been once breathed, but shuts during inspiration. This latter valve, if entirely turned aside, permits the atmospheric air to enter freely without any chloroform, or, if removed partially, permits it to be mixed with it in any proportion. Matthews has an improvement which allows the chloroform box to be turned in any direction, so that the chloroform can never run into the mouth. D?'. Snow's Inhaler consists of Dr. Sibson's mask, which is connected by a long flexible tube to a double metallic bottle. The inner bottle contains the chloroform, and has proper apertures for the transmission of air. The outer bottle contains cold water, in order to provide that the vapour may be raised at an equable temperature. Another rude but very good apparatus is made by folding a piece of very stiff paper into the sh^pe of a fool's cap ; leaving an aperture at the top. A piece of sponge is sewed to the inside of the paper near the top; and on this (first wetted with cold water) the chloroform is poured. Dr. Skinner has devised a useful inhaler consisting of a piece of thick muslin stretched on a frame * Messrs. Weiss have devised one inhaler, by which the quantity of chloroform and of air can be regulated; and another fixed to the operating-table, which is said to provide against waste of the vapour, and excessive doses. From Dr. Anstie's description, it does not add to the patient's safety. If, however, any apparatus at all is to be used, it should be Clover's. This consists of a mouthpiece having valves to admit the fresh air at plea- sure ; and connected by a flexible tube to a large india-rubber air-proof bag; which the administrator hangs from his shouldei s, and carries on his back. This bag is filled with air, leady impregnated with chloro- form vapour in definite proportions. A bellows holding 1000 cubic inches of air is made to drive its contents through a box into which 40 minims of chloroform have been introduced by a graduated syringe; this quantity gives 45 inches of chloroform vapour, or 4J per cent, to the air with which the bag is filled. The valves should be opened at first so that even this vapour may be further diluted.f * Obstet. Trans., vol. iv., p. 116. f See Notices of Surgical Instruments, by James R, Traer, Med. Times and Gaz., August 9, 1862.