390 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. JV. Softening is a frequent consequence of concussion or lacera- tion of the spinal cord. The affected part becomes pulpy and diffluent, without, however, any traces of inflammation. V. Acute Inflammation of the spinal cord is a very rare conse- quence of injuries, except penetrating wounds, which generally prove speedily fatal in consequence. It is known by rigors, delirium, twitchings, and numbness of the limbs; difficult and quick breathing; tympanites of belly ; followed by paralysis of legs, possibly of arms ; perhaps general convulsions and coma. Suppuration has been found along the whole of the spinal canal, and the pus has been known to make its way along the sheaths of the nerves, so as to form considerable col- lections amongst the muscles.* Prognosis.— If a fracture is situated high up, so as to affect the respiiation, the patient rarely survives more than a day or two. If it is situated in the lower part of the back, or loins, he may Uve two or three weeks, or a month ; and, in some rare cases, recovery has even occurred, of course with permanent paraplegia. The manner in which death occurs after these injuries is from general exhaustion and debility. The appetite and digestion fail ; a weakening diarrhoea comes on, and then the nates slough, and the patient soon sinks. The prognosis is very uncertain after severe blows; sometimes the patient lives and recovers the use of his limbs even after complete paraplegia ; sometimes life is saved but with permanent paraplegia ; sometimes, on the other hand, the patient having appeared to recover from the ill effects of the injury, most unexpectedly becomes paralytic, and dies from slow disor- ganization of the cord. Treatment.—1. If there be any displacement, an attempt may be made to reduce it by extension. In partial dislocations of the neck, however, the attempt should be very cautious indeed, since, although it has succeeded (in the case of M. Gu6rin for instance), it has also been known to produce instant death. 2. The patient must be kept at perfect rest in the horizontal posture, and the greatest care must be taken to prevent or delay gangrene of the nates, by arranging pillows or India-rubber water-cushions. 3. The urine must be drawn off by the catheter, and the bowels be kept open by clysters and purgatives, to which Sir B. Brodie recommends ammonia to be added. Tonics and the muriatic acid may be given to support the strength, and ob- viate the derangement of the urine. The tympanitic state of the belly may be relieved by rubbing it with the compound camphor liniment. 4. Cupping may occasionally be employed if there are inflammatory symptoms, and the pulse is firm. But in the majority of cases, if fracture has occurred, and the cord is injured, loss of blood is contra- indicated by the pulse, and would hasten a fatal issue. 5, If the patient recover with his life, any remaining weakness or palsy may perhaps be attempted to be removed by the cautious use of blisters or * See case of latent fracture of spine, proving fatal by suppuration within the vertebral canal, by Mr. Simon, Pathological Trans., vol. vi. Dr. Bris- towe, ih.