656 LATERAL OPERATION. opened over it and made to grasp it; if seized awkwardly, it is relin- quished and seized again—then it is extracted by slow, cautious, undu- lating movements. The forceps should be held with the convexity of one blade upwards and of the other downwards ; and the endeavour should be to make the parts gradually yield and dilate, not to tear them. The gen€7^al maxims to be borne in mind during the performance of this operation are, 1, to make a free external incision, and to bring it low enough down, so that the urine may subsequently escape freely without infiltrating the cellular tissue ; 2, not to cut deeply too high up, nor to open the urethra too much in front, for fear of dividing too much of the urethra, and wounding the artery of the bulb. Many surgeons begin one inch above the anus ; 3, not to wound the rectum, or pudic artery, by carrying the incisions too low, or cutting loo much inwards or outwards;—the left forefinger should protect the I'ectum throughout; 4, not to cut through the prostate. Mr, H.Thompson believes that infiltration of urine through too large an internal incision, is not so much to be dreaded as the bruising, and tearing of the neck of the bladder, and its delicate cellular connections which may accompany too small an incision. The usual pons of young operators, is the difficulty of getting the finger and forceps into the bladder, and the propensity to let them slip between the bladder and rectum. * This diagram, copied from a paper by Mr. Bryant, Lancet, Feb. 11th, 1843, is useful as exhibiting au internal view of tbe parts at the neclc of the bladder, concerned in lithotomy; a a, vasa deferentia; h, vesicula seminales; c, pros- tate ; d d, ureters. It will be noticed that after the first incision, the use of the knife is very li- mited indeed. Yet, if the stone is very large, the prostate very hard, or if any muscular or other tis- sues resist the finger as it passes in, they may be touched with the edge of the blunt- pointed bistoury. In fact, the right side of the gland may be di- vided, equally with the left. Also after the stone has been grasped, the same may be done if needful.