317 DISLOCATION OF THE HAND. 5. The head of the ^xtdius alone may he dislocated forwards; being; thrown against the external condyle. The elbow is slightly bent, and, n bending it more, the head ot the ladias can be felt to strike against the front of the humerus. Treatment.—Simple extension from the hand, the elbow being straight. 6. Dislocation of the radius backwards is very rare. The arm is bent, and the head of the bone can be felt behind the outer condyle. Eeduced hj simply hend'mg and adducting the arm, which should be kept bent for three weeks. Diagnosis.—These dislocations of the elbow may be distinguished from fractures of the lower extremity of the humerus—1, by the im- paired mobility of the joint, and by the absence of crepitus ; 2, by measuring the length of the humerus from its condyle to the shoulder; which, in dislocation, will be equal to that of the sound limb, but will be diminished in fracture of the lower extremity of the humerus. But when it is considered that these six dislocations may be combined with various fractui'es of the condyles of the humerus and of the bones of the forearm, it will be admitted that the injuries of the elbow present a sufBciently wide and com{;)licated field of study. V. Dislocations of the Wrist may readily be distinguished by the altei-ed position of the hand, which is thrown either backwaids or forwards if both bones be dislocated, or twisted if only one be dis- placed,—and by the alteration of the natural relative position of the styloid processes of the radius and ulna with the bones of the carpus. They are reduced by simple extension.* VI. Dislocations of the Hand. — The os magnum and os cuneiforme are sometimes partially dislocated through relaxation of their ligaments, and form projections at the back of the hand, which must not be mistaken for ganglia. Mr. Fergusson has also known * Dupuytren taught that these dislocations are extremely rare, or, in fact, almost impossible ; and that fractures of the lower extremity of the radius are generally mistaken for them. But the experience of English surgeons shows that real dislocation, without any fracture, is not by any means uncommon. See a very carefully reported case in the Lond. Med, Gaz., June 17th, 1843.