157 DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. In the lower extremity the shock and effects of injuries on the consti- tution are more severe, and they are attended with great dansjer to life; and this danger increases the nearer the injury approaches the trunk, wounds of the upper third of the tliigh being tar more fatal than those in the lower third. Amputation is frequently called for, and it should be remembered that the danger of amputation of the lower extremity is in an increasing ratio for every inch of the limb which is taken away. This applies especially to the thigh. Thus we find in the Crimean returns the following— Amputations. Total. Died. Ratio of Mortality per cent. (Upper third . Thigh Middle third . (Lower third . 88 5G 46 31 31 23 86-8 55'3 50-0 The total percentage of deaths in the Crimea after the amputation of both the upper and /ou-er extremities was as follows: Of the hip (all died) 100 per cent. „ thigh 64- 55 Ifg 37 ,, ,, foot 16 ,, „ shoulder joint 35 „ „ arm 19 forearm 7 „ It is said, however, that the statistics, from all sources that can be relied upon, allow that in amputation of the hip joint, one patient out of three recovers. After the battle of Waterloo, Mr. Guthrie per- formed this operation upon a French prisoner under veiy unfavourable circumstances (nineteen days after) with a successful result.* The Cases requiring Amputation are, 1st. Those in which t'^e limb has been torn away by a round shot or shell. 2nd. Severe laceration of the integuments, with injury to the main vessels, both artery and vein, even though the bone be uninjured. If the artery only is wounded, both ends of it should be tied and an endeavour made to save the limb; but if both vein, artery, and nerve have been torn, the injury is generally so severe that it is best to amputate. 3rd. Severe compound and comminuted fi'actures, with destruction of the surrounding tissues, even though the vessels and nerves be not injured, demand amputation. * Williamson's Military Surgery, p. 186.