DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 672 tions on the veins are always attended with sorae risk. This risk, how- ever, is considerably lessened by the use of metallic wire sutures or needles, a combination of which has been before described under the section Varicose Veins, in the operation performed by Mr. Wood (see p. 361). Less suppuration follows their use in the above manner. There is, therefore, less danger of pyaemia. Sir A. Cooper proposed the operation of cutting away a good piece of the loose relaxed skin. " The manner of performing it is as follows :—The patient being placed in the recumbent posture, the relaxed scrotum is drawn between the fingers ; the testis is to be raised to the ring by an assistant; and then the portion of the scrotum is to be removed by the knife." Any artery requiring it must be tied ; and cold must be applied to check bleeding ; and then the lower flap of the scrotum must be brought upwards and forwards, and be attached by sutures to the fore and upper part; and a suspensory bag be applied to press the testis upwa]ds, and glue the scrotum to its surface. One method consists in the application of moderate pi-essure to the dilated veins at the external abdominal ring, by means of Evans's patent lever truss; so as to release them from the pressure of the superincumbent column of blood, and afford them a moderate degree of support.* XIII. Morbid Growths,—The testicle is liable to almost every variety of morbid growth. Thus the fibrous and fibro-plastic tumours may be developed within it; cysts of A^arious kinds (forming the hydatid disease of Sir A. Cooper), of which probably the origin is, according to Mr. Curling, to be found in dilated tubules of the rete testis, and which may accompany cancer, and other growths that are not cancer ;—and enchondroma, which seems to have a peculiar predi- lection for the testicle, and may be found here in connexion with many other kinds of morbid growth. It may be developed within the tubules, or within the lymphatics.* The diagnosis of these growths is chiefly concerned in proving, first, that they are not inflammatory nor syphilitic, on the one hand, which is shown by their resisting all treat- ment ; and secondly, that they are n(jt cancerous, which is shown by their slowness of increase, and by the absence of cachexia. If the tumour becomes of unsightly magnitude, it should be extirpated. XIV. Cancer of the testis is almost always of the soft variety ; it may be combined with enchondroma, or with cystic growth. At first the gland swells, and becomes hard, heavy, and elastic in feel ; it is scarcely, if at ail, painful or tender, and merely causes slight aching in * See Sir A.Cooper, Guy's Hosp. Rep., vol. iii.; Reynaud, Journ. des Con- naissances Med., Feb. 1839 ; James in Prov. Med. Trans, for 1840, and Curling, op. cit. The diagnosis of Varicocele has been spoken of at p. 570. f See Jabez Hogg, Path. Trans., vol. Iv.; Curling, Med, Chir, Trans,, vol. xxxvi., and Path. Trans,, vol. vi,; and especially Mr. Paget's account of a case of enchondroma of the testicle, Med, Chir. Trans., vol, xxxviii. The testis was cut out, and the patient perished of an extension of the disease up to ihe lumbar glands, into the ascending cava, and throughout both lungs.