530 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. speak directly. In the dead body, when air is admitted to the cavity of the pleura, the lung collapses at once : this is certainly not the case in the living body, unless the external wound be very extensive in- deed ;—on the contrary, the lung continues to discharge its functions, although less perfectly in proportion to the amount of air passing in and out of the wound in the chest. The writer has had the oppor- tunity of ascertaining that the respiratory murmur may be perfect throughout the lung, just after a wound in the pleural cavity has been closed. Hernia of the Lung.—If the lung protrudes, the rule generally given is, to retui'n it as quickly as possible, unless it is injured or be- ginning to mortify ; but Mr. Guthrie recommends that it should be permitted to remain, as it closes the aperture into the pleura, and speedily granulates and heals over. Hernia of the lung, without external wound, protruding through the pleura amongst the muscles, is excessively rare, and must be treated by bandage or truss. IX. Wounds of the Lung, if extensive, are probably quickly fatal. If not, they will probably present the following symptoms:—- Great dyspnoea and sense of suffocation ; the countenance jtallid and ex- tremely anxious—and expectoration of blood, which is coughed up in florid arterial mouthfuls, mixed with occasional clots. If the wound is not extensive, there may be only a certain amount of oozing into the pleural cavity, and no cough nor bloody expectoration at all. Some- times a violent blow causes hsemoptysis, though there be no actual wound of lung. The dangers of wounds of the chest are threefold. 1st. Hcemorrhnge, which may destroy the patient by exhaustion, or may fill up the air passages and induce suffocation. 2ndly. Inflam- mation^ which may supervene, and will be aggravated by the irrita- tion of clots of blood, splintered bone, or of other extraneous bodies. 3rdly. Profuse and exhausting suppuration, with cough, debility, hectic, and all the symptoms of phthisis. Treatment.—The first indication is to check the hasmorrhage. If this proceed from the intercostal, or any other artery of the parietes (although these do not often give trouble), the wound must be en- larged, and the bleeding orifice be seized with forceps, or tenaculum, or be secured by torsion.* If haemorrhage proceed from the wounded lung, the remedies are ice or cold drinks, perfect quietude, opium to insure sleep and diminish the respiration, astringents, as gallic acid, or alum, administered internally. Secondly, the wound should be quickly examined, and if it be of large size, or a gunshot wound, the finger should be introduced into it, to remove clots of blood, splinters of broken ribs, or any other foreign substances that it may readily find. If it is not sufficiently large for this purpose, it may be dilated by a probe-pointed bistoury. At the same time, an intercostal artery, if wounded, should be secured. * Mr. Lawson says that the intercostal artery was not once secured in the Crimean campaign. j See also Dr. Fraser on Penetrating Wounds of the Chest.