94 SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. best, which admits of the greatest amount of exposure to the air. Hence, for the winter, the shores of the Mediterranean, Bournemouth, Torquay, Arcachon, Malaga, Egypt, or some other fiwoured place, should be sought, where the climate is dry enough, and mild enough to admit of open-air exercise; but it is far better not to send patients away from home and friends (as is too often the case) merely to die.* (5.) Abundance of smiUght should be sought, as well as purity of air, since it is indispensable for the production of healthy colour and composition of flesh and blood. (6.) Daily washing and friction of the skin are as beneficial to the scrofulous as they are to every one else; and if the patient be precluded from taking exercise, friction is indispensable. Cold sea-bathing is in general so advantageous, that it has been deemed a specific. The best season is from the middle of August to the middle of November.^ The object in using the cold bath is to produce a vigorous reaction; conse- quently, before taking it, the skin should be warm. At all events the person who bathes should not be exhausted by fatigue nor in a cooling condition from perspiration. If the bather be strong, he may plunge into the open sea early in the morning on an empty stomach, not only with imi)unity, but with advantage; but the forenoon is the best time for a weakly child, wiieu the air is become warm, and the svstera is invigoiated with a breakfast. Bathing will be injurious if a short immersion renders the surface cold, numb, and pinched. Warm salt baths are very useful. (7.) Tonics.—It follows from our definition of scrofula that the medicines most likely to be of service are those which tend to give a fii-mer, healthier composition to the flesh and blood. The first of these which deserves notice is the cod-liver oil, whose wonderful properties of checking emaciation are now happily well known. It may be given in any sci-ofulous disease, and in any case in which the patient is losing flesh, in as large quantities as the stomach can tolerate. The author recommends it to be given just as the patient is lying down in bed, as bv this means all chance of nausea is prevented. The best is a pale or light yellow sweet oil, prepared at home or imported from Newfound- laud. Ai>y other fish-oil that is not too rank ; good chocolate, calf's- foot jelly, blancmange, isinglass, good pea or lentil soup, the essence of meat, F. 196, or a little rum and milk taken quite early, may occa- sionally be tried as extra nutritives. Bark is of immense service when there is a great exhaustion from suppuration, or when ulcers spread rapidly. The decoction, or liq. cinchonse flavge (F. 1, 4), are the best forms. Iron is sure to agree with pale, flabby, clear-complexioned children, provided their liver and bowels are kept in proper action; not with the dark skinned. Bark should be given in large doses for a short time when the system seems exhausted ; iron in small doses for a very long time, with occasional intervals of a week. Every preparation of it has its value, from the mild citrate, or potassio-tartrate, or acetate, the * The best book on Change of Climate is by Dr. Thomas More Madden, London. 1«64.