FKACTUEE OF THE FEMUK. 281 it a short splint, for fracture below the knee. It has a foot-board, which can be adapted to any length or thickness of limb, and to any portion of the knee or ankle-joint,* 2. A second plan is that of Pott.f It consists in laying the patient on the affected side, the thigh at right angles to the trunk, and the knee bent—with a many-tailed bandage and four splints, applied be- tween the pelvis and trochanter above, and the knee below. The dis- advantages of this plan are, first, that the patient soon turns round on his back, dragging the upper fragment away from its right place; and, secondly, that the pressure on the great trochanter may cause slough- ing. The first evil may be prevented simply by watching fhe patient, and telling him to turn ruund on his belly rather than on his back, if he wishes to shift his position. The second may be remedied by placing him on his back, at the end of a fortnight, with his knees bent up, and supported by pillows. 3. A third plan of treatment is by the fracture-bed, of which the best modification is that of Mr. Torry Hester, of Oxford. The patient is placed on his back ; the thigh and knee bent up over a double inclined plane, in which position they are kept immoveably. But the whole bed is placed on a sort of hinge, so that the patient's trunk can be raised or lowered, without causing any motion of the hip- joint.J 4. The starched bandage may be employed in fracture of the lower third. Another plan, which enables compound and gun-shot fracture of the femur to be easily dressed, when the wound is on the hinder part of the limb, has been devised by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, of St. Louis, U. S. A cradle is constructed, of the accompanying figure (p. 282). The foot-board, a, is 4J inches wide, 1 inch thick, and 14 inches long, and rests on a trariverse rod, a, 15 inches long and 1 inch square. The centre support, c, is 7 inches high, 8 broad, and 1 inch thick. This piece is 21 inches from the footboard. The longitudinal strips are 42 inches long, 1^ inch wide, and J inch thick ; each is screwed at one end to the footpiece, leaving 4J inches between the upper and lower. The lower are fastened to the outside of the centre support at c ; the upper, at the inner side of the upright portion. It is adapted to either limb by binding the ends of the pieces designed for the perinceuin and pubes, and shortening them, so that the foot may come to the footboard;—the upper strip passing in front of the pubes, the lower, a short distance from the perinseum. Strips of cloth 2| inches wide are now placed on the upper longitudinal bars and pinned, so that they may form a double inclined plane, on which the limb may rest. Any one or more of these may be removed or renewed when necessary for cleanliness' sake. Broad strips of adhesive plaster are now placed on either side of the leg, and * Many forms and varieties of this splint are manufactured by Matthews, of Portugal Street, Weiss, and Savigny. t Pott, Chirurgical Works, vol. i. p. 365. % A New Method of managing Fractures, by James Torry Hester, 1853.