209 CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. SECTION VIII.—CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. That wliich really distinguishes the true chancre above other primary venereal ulcers is that it is the forerunner of that frightful lues or pox whose ravages date, as far as we know, from the siege of Naples. The multiplicity of diseases it may create is astonishing; but they generally appear in a certain order as to the parts attacked, and as to the nature of the lesion. First, the skin and mucous membranes ; then the iris, the tendons, aponeuroses, and periosteum ; lastly, the viscera, testicles, brain, and liver. At first the lesions are blotches or pimples, or scurfy desquamations; the later ones are purulent suppurating ulcers of the skin or caries of the bones. The original chancre is usually called the primary—the first in time and severity of the constitutional symptoms, the secondary—and the latest and worst, especially the foul ulcers, the tertiary. But the clearest division is that proposed by Dr. Wilks,* The induration and glandular enlargement which occur at the original site of infection, together with all the characteristic syphilitic affections of structures, external or internal, should be called plainly ' syphilitic '—thus including both the primary and secondary. Whilst the tertiary should be called sequela; of syphilis, inasmuch as they consist, not of syphilitic disease pure and simple, but of various cachectic conditions, Ibul ulceration, caries of bones, Sic, which are not peculiar to syphilis, though they may be induced by it, as they may also by scrofula or other cachectic conditions. The peculiar effect of syphilis on the system, says Dr. Wilks, " is a disposition to the effusion of a low form of lymph or fibro-plastic material in nearly every tissue of the body. In those who have died suffering from this disease, there is scarcely an organ but what may be found affected in this particular way." The lymph may form the hard base of chancre, tubercles and mucous tubercles of skin, the hard base of ulcers, nodes on the bones, gurwiiata on tendons or in the areolar tissue, fibroid nodules in the liver and other internal organs. The exudation is soft at first, denser aftei wards ; may be absorbed in fortunate cases under good treatment; or may remain as shrunken hard nodules to the end of life ; or may soften and undergo ulceration. No special structure has been found in it, only fibro-plastic elements. The first outbreak usually occurs at about six weeks. It may be earlier, or may be postponed for some months—rarely more than six. The later attacks may go on at intervals for thirty or forty years if the patient live so long. Whilst the system is syphilized, it is difficult or impossible for the patient to acquire a fresh primary chancre. Yet cases have been collected by Diday, Bassei-eau, and others of second chancre, which fact is evidence that the syphilitic diathesis had been entirely cured. * Guy's Hospital Eep., Third Series, vol. ix., On Syphilis of Internal Organs. D P