623 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. of bougies, straws, slate pencil, or of other bodies introduced from without; of clots of blood, of mucus, or, in rare cases, of portions of fascal matter, or worms that have passed into the bladder from the intestines by means of an ulcerated opening. They may perhaps be pushed forwards by the fingers, aided by the patient's sti'ainings,—and then may be brought out through the orifice (which must be slightly dilated if necessary) by forceps, or a bent probe. Many instruments have been invented for this purpose, and especially by lithotritists. The urethral forceps of Weiss, the instrument consisting of two blades, B, passing through a canula, A, and having a central file, C, tor pul- verizing any substance that admits of it;—and the scoop with a tongue are the most useful. A common scoop with a long slender handle, a loop of fine wire, and a pair of very fine dissecting forceps may also be found useful. During the necessary manipulations a finger or thumb should be pressed on the urethra behind the foreign body—throuoh the rectum if needful—in order to prevent it from slipping backwards into the bladder. With this precaution it may answer to inject a good stream of water from a large syringe, so as to dilate the passage. But ]f these means fail, the substance must be pushed back into the mem- branous portion (if not there ali-eady), and be extracted by an incision m the perineum. Incisions into the front of the urethra should be avoided, foi- they are apt to leave irremediable fistula; or, if near the scrotum, may occasion infiltration of urine into its loose areolar tissue. SECTION V.—DISEASES OP THE PROSTATE.* I. Acute Inflammation of the prostate is generally a consequence of acute gonorrhoea, but may he caused by stricture, calculus, or ;iny * For the latest and best account of the structure and diseases of the prostate, see Henry Thompson on the Enlarged Prostate and Stone in the Bladder, Lond. 1858 ; also Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xl.; Ellis, lb., vol. xxxix.; also Loulson on Diseases of ^he Bladder and Prostate Gland, 4th edit,, Lond., 1852, p. 421. Adams on the Prostate Gland.