BRACHIAL ARTERY. 753 circumscribed aneurysms, it will be sufficient to tie the artery just above the tumour, and as near it as possible. In the case of traumatic aneurysm, the difficulties of the surgeon will be increased by the infiltrated and swollen state of surrounding parts, and possibly the tumour may be the only guide to the vessel. An incision from two and a half inches long to three inches, should be made obliquely about half an inch internal to the tendon of the biceps, the position of which should of course be first ascertained. The basilic vein must be held aside if in the way, as well as any twigs of nerves. The fascial expansion of the biceps must not be needlessly cut, as contraction of the arm might ensue, or the healing of the wound become tedious. Should it be considered "necessary to tie the brachial very low down in consequence of the radial having been wounded, the vessel lies in a triangular space, bounded by the pronator radii teres internally, and by the supinator longus externally, having the median nerve, when regu- larly placed, on the inner side. Very great care should be taken to con- duct the operation with delicacy and despatch. It may be observed that when the artery is wounded in venesection, the surgeon has the choice of three measures:—1st. To enlarge the wound upwards and downwards, and tie the vessel above and below the injured part. 2ndly. To attempt cure by pressure ; placing a gra- duated compress on the wound : bandaging the whole limb : compressing the artery above, and so endeavouring to get the wound in the vessel closed, without traumatic aneurysm resulting. Should this aneurysm result, and he diffused, that is, without a sac, the wounded artery must be secui-ed. Should the traumatic aneurysm have a sac, either this tumour may be cut into and both ends of the vessel tied, which is usually the most advisable proceeding; or recourse may be had to, 3rdly, liga- ture of the lower part of the brachial. VI. The Radial Artery pursues a course corresponding with a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. It winds over the external lateral liga- ment of the wrist joint to the dorsum, and between the first and second metacarpal bones sinks into the palm of the hand to complete the deep palmar arch. Although in the upper part of its course it lies deeply and is overlapped by muscle, it is not crossed by any. In the upper third it lies deeply between the pronator teres and supinator lono-us, and is ovei lapped by the latter. In the lower two-thirds it lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. It is accompanied and embraced by vense comites and their ramifications, and in the middle third by the radial nerve, which lies on the outer side and behind. It sometimes happens, as an irregularity, that the artery runs superficial to the supinator longus, or even to the fascia; and at the wrist may pass outside the extensor tendons. To tie it, the fore-arm must first of all be properly fixed by assistants on a table. Then an incision three inches in length must be made over its course. The superficial fascia should be divided; the deep fascia D 3 c