Vlll PEEFACE. animals, naturally enough set themselves to see what was then considered the very arcaiium, the ne plus ultra of vital action, namely, the condition of the blood-vessels. Expecting to find these in a state of " increased action," and expecting that the increased action of a blood-vessel should be an increased current of blood, they were surprised to see in the focus of an inflamed part, vessels distended, and blood motionless. They might have accepted this fact simpUciter. They might have said, Here are blood-vessels distended, possibly as a consequence or accompaniment of some coexisting condition; just as a "block" of carriages in the street may arise from "too languid a circulation," as when some carriage can't go fast enough;— or from error loci, as when a man insists on breaking the line; —or from ''constriction," as when "a street is up;"~or from " increased attraction " of certain houses for carriages, as when a ball is given ;—or from universal ''plethora," as at a Lord Mayor's show. A stagnation of blood in the vessels of an inflamed part is no more a warrant for an absolute hypothesis as to its cause than a stoppage in the streets; yet our pre- decessors, the first microscopic pathologists, greedily seized this fact as a foundation for a theory that inflammation was a "debility" of the capillaries—a "debihty," they thought, that must be counteracted by stimulation ;" for " debility," a term expressing a conception of the human mind, and " stimulation," a mere metaphor, were taken as the names of absolute existences antagonistic to each other. To the error of assuming our mental conceptions to exist in external objects was superadded a fourth error, that of searching for " final causes." Any one who conceived any use to arise from any change in the animal economy, believed himself to have entered into the very counsels of the Deity, and to detect His purposes. The " symptomatic fever " which accompanies (and, as the ancients knew, precedes) many local inflammations was conceived to be a beneficent consequence. A fantastic goddess was set up called "Nature." She was supposed to live in and rule the animal body, to feel all its injuries and resent them. If a man shivered at the beginning of an illness, "Nature" felt an injury, and withdrew her forces from the extremities into the citadel of life. If he became feverish, if the whole heart and arteries throbbed tumul- tuously, it was Nature's mode of resisting an enemy; for it was really supposed that a " local debility " of the capillaries might excite the whole blood-vessels to furious " action " in order to overcome the obstruction ; just as if a man should