CANCER. 121 tion of blood. So valuable a sign hpain, that if after extirpation of a doubtfal tumour, the patient complains of neuralgia, secondary cancer may be almost certainly predicted. This practical rule was communi- cated to the writer by his friend and preceptor Dr. Robert Ferguson. In this stage, also, may occur several changes in the nutrition of the morbid growth. A portion of the cells may undergo disintegration into a granular mass; preceded by fatty infiltiation and formation of round granular corpuscles; or by a drying up and condensation; and the portions thus altered form a yellow tubercular-looking mass, mingled with the rest of the tumour, which Miiller described under the name reticular cancer, and Lebert as the phymatoid. Ecchymosis, in- flammation, and abscess may occur, or ulceration; but be it observed that ulceration is by no means so common a phenomenon in cancer as is generally taught, unless it be in hard cancer of the skin, breast, or stomach. After ulceration, or before it, portions of the tumour may soften, or may slough away ; but none of these changes are curative; for whilst one part is perishing, others are germinating and spreading the faster. Yet in a few instances, in aged persons, cancer has disap- peared by atrophy, and the breast with it.* In some few cases the ulcer may heal; but the cancerous mass beneath remains. The consti- tutional symptoms of this stage are those of an increasing cachexia, added to the detrimental consequences of pain, discharge, and interrup- tion of function. The complexion becomes sallow, the lips pale, the mind despondent (though delirium in any case of cancer is rare), diges- tion feeble ; the flesh and strength waste; and the bones become light and fragile.* In the third period, diffused and secondary cancerous growths are formed in the liver, uterus, bones, pleura, and other parts; and the in- creasing functional disturbance, added to the increasing decay of the vital qualities of the blood, ultimately prove fatal. Prognosis.—The final destiny of a cancerous patient is pretty certain; the time in which the disease may prove fatal is uncertain; it is shorter in the soft than in the hard cancer ; in young patients than in the aged; and in cancer of internal organs, especially if of vital importance, than of external. Some patients succumb in a few months ; others survive, if carefully treated, several years ; two years, or three, may be considered as more than the usual limits. Treatment.—We know of no radical measures, capable of remov- ing the cancerous taint from the blood, and of arresting the growth of the local disease. All that we can do is to check the disease so far as we can, and make the patient's life as long and as comfortable as our means permit. The first thing to be spoken of is extirpation; against which must be alleged the flicts—that the removal of one affected part cannot re- move the diathesis, and that the disease is almost sure to return in the original situation, or in some other. That in some instances outw\ard cancer is accompanied by the disease inwardly, and that to remove the * Case by Ernest Hart, Path. Trans, xiii. p. 225.