GONORRHCEA, OR CLAP. 195 oji oins, thighs, perinaeum, and testicles, ache and feel tender ; and the patient's nightly rest is disturbed by long-continued and painful erec- tions, and by chordee, that is, a highly painful and crooked state of the penis during erection. This arises from a deposit of lymph in the corpus spongiosum urethral^ which glues together the cells, and prevents their distension, so that when the penis is turgid with blood, it is bent at one part, and horribly painful. In the third stage, the inflammatory symptoms and chordee abate, and a muco-purulent discharge is left, which, when obstinate and thin, is called a gleet. Complications.—1. If the inflammatory stage be very sevei e, there may be severe irritation or actual inflammation of the iirinary organs; sometimes of the deeper portion of tl)e urethra, producing great pain in the periiia3um, and ppasm of tlie accelerators and other muscles during micturition, so as to interrupt the stream of urine, and cause the most exquisiteagony,-—or even complete retention of urine;—sometimes of the bladder, causing a very frequent desire to make water and great pain in doing so, which lasts for some time afterwards, together with a white mucous cloud in the urine; or thei'e may be shivering, pain in the loins, purulent and serous urine, tenderness of the abdomen, vomit- ing, and other signs of severe irritation of the kidneys. 2. HcBfnorrhage from the urethra ; from rupture of the distended ca- pillaries during violent erection. The loss of blood generally gives relief. 3. Inflammation and obstruction of the mucous follicles of the urethra, which may suppurate and burst either into the urethra or externally or both. 4. Inflammation of the lymphatic glands of the groin, constituting sympathetic bubo. 5. Balanitis (fidXavos, glans), see ]>. 206. 6. Phymosis, or paraphymosis, owing to the swelled condition of the glans and prepuce. When the latter is cedematous, it presents a curious semi-transj)arent appearance called cri/stalline. See Part IV., Chap. XXI. 7. Inflammation of either testicle, or of the ovary in women. See Part IV., Chap. XXI., also p. 201. Besides these seven complications, which arise from an extension of the local inflammation, gonorihoea has at least one well-marked secondary symptom, depending possibly on absorption of pus. Gonorrhccal rheumatism; pain, swelling and tenderness of the joints, especially of the knees and ankles, and feverishness. This generally occurs towards the decline of the complaint, and attacks young people of a delicate strumous habit. The same persons ai-e also liable to rheumatic ophthalmia, or inflammation of the fibrous structures of the eye; but this must not be confounded with the gonorrhoeal inflam- mation of the conjunctiva, which is caused by the contact of the dis- cliarge. Bacot says, that the rheumatism is sometimes suddenly relieved by the appearance of patches of minute papulae or pustules. Gonorrhaa is always most severe in first cases, and in patients who