INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. 391 issues, friction, waini bathing, and the internal use of nnx vomica; but they will very rarely do any good.* 6. An operation for cutting down on the fiacture, and cutting out the arch of that vertebra or vertebrae which presses on the cord, was performed forty years ago by Cline, and Astley Cooper. The results were not lucky, but the idea has been revived by Brown-Sequard. CHAPTER XII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. SECTION I.—INFLAMMATION OP THE EYE GENERALLY. I. The Eye is a very complex organ, containing very many different structures of great delicacy and minuteness. The effect of disease on each of these parts and structures requires to be considered sepa- rately ; yet the student should be aware that he may not find in actual practice that the various diseases ending in itis, such as choroid- itis, or sclerotitis, have such nicely-defined differences as are often assigned to them in books. For instance, it is a most arbitrary assump- tion that the choroid can be inflamed apart from the retina, or the retina apart from the choroid; still more to talk of congestion of the one, and inflammation of the other. No doubt there are many instances of isolated affections even amongst the most minute textures, as we shall show presently. But the flrst grand distinction the student must draw, is between inflammation of the conjunctiva, popularly, but falsely called ophthalmia, and inflammation of the eyeball. The con- junctiva, including that which covers the cornea, is a mucous mem- brane, subject to inflammation with mucous or purulent discharge, smarting or scalding pain, and more or less sensitiveness to light. This may be caused by various derangements of health ; by long appli- cation with bright light; by atmospheric influence; or by the applica- tion of irritants, of which gonoi'rhceal pus is the most intense. I t may lead to opacity and ulceration of the cornea, but be quite unattended with disease of the interior of the eye, and is greatly under the control of local astringent applications. In very severe cases, however, the deep- seated parts are apt to be implicated in the vascular action, although they may escape occasionally from the ravages of disease. II. Inflammation of the Eyeball, on the contrary, is attended with quite a different set of symptoms ;—those, in fact, which, as Dr. Jacob observes, are commonly ascribed to iritis; as if the iris were the only tissue concerned, whereas, in reality, in iritis, all the inner struc- tures of the eye are more or less involved. The symptoms are, a bright pink arterial tint of the sclerotic; the iris altered in colour, first * Vide Cooper on Dislocations, and Brodie on Injuries of the Spinal Cord, in Med. Cbir. Trans., vol. xxi.