486 FISSURE OF THE PALATE, all tension will be taken off, and the sides of the fissure will fall loosely togetlier, and the stitches may be now applied. It is highly important that a sufficient number of stitches be introduced. The greatest strain will be generally at the anterior extremity of the fissure, where the soft parts are most firmly connected with the bones. The stitches are introduced by means of a curved needle set in a handle. " The point of the instrument, armed with a small smooth thread, is passed from below upwards about a quarter of an inch from the cut margin of the fissure, and made to appear in the middle of the gap, when the thread is seized with forceps, drawn three or four inches out of the mouth, and then the needle is withdrawn. A similar manoeuvre is followed on the opposite side." Thus there is a double thread through each side of the fissure. One thread, C, is now pulled through ; one end of it put into the loop of the other thread; when, by pulling A B, C will be of swelling, will make all secure. After the operation has been finished, the patient must be kept perfectly quiet. It is better that the patient should not take anything for some hours after the opera- tion until the parts have become somewhat quiet; but then bread soaked in milk, or in good beef-tea, which has some pounded meat mixed with it, should be given, so as to supply good plastic material. Enemata of beef-tea may be of service. The surgeon need not be in any great hurry to remove the stitches. Mr. Fergusson, in his early operations, was in the habit of taking them away on the second day after the operation, but latterly he has permitted them to remain longer. " It is better, in my opinion, to let the threads remain several days too long than that they should be moved a minute too early. Usually I take one or two stitches away on the third or fourth day, and on the fifth or sixth remove them all. It is better, I think, to take them out at intervals than all at once."* It must be remarked that many surgeons think that the division of the muscles in the above-described manner, does not offer any particular advantages over free lateral incisions, parallel with the edges of the cleft. * See Fergusson's Practical Surgery, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxviii.; Medical Times, Nos. 3S8 and 389 ; Lond. Journ. of Medicine, Jan. 1849 ; and some suc- cessful cases by Mr. Gay, Lancet, Feb. 19, 1853. iD drawn through the other side. This manoeuvre, which is of great use in all plastic operations in deeply-seated parts, is ascribed to Mr. Avery. " Two, three, four, or five threads, of different colours for distinction' sake, are intro- duced in this way, and then, after the cut margins of the flaps are sponged free of blood and mucus, the various threads are fastened." The knot shown in the next cut is a good way ot bringing the edges together ; a double- reef knot, not too tight, so as to allow