DISEASES OF THE CHOROID. 438 these pnits abnormally. All alterations from the healthy state in these structures are more or less detrimental to vision. The vitreous humour is often the seat of hsemori hage. Floating par- ticles may exist in its substance, which is generally more fluid than in its normal state, or a greater or less degree of turbidity may interfere with its transparency, and envelope in a fog the pails posterior to it. Cholesterine scales may be seen floating about in it, and the cysticercus is occasionally seen iu its substance. The vitreous humour should be thoroughly examined both with and without the lens. Floating par- otides and alterations in its anterior portion are best seen with the mirror alone. The use of the ophthalmoscope in diagnosing cataract in its incipient stage must be very evident. It is necessary that the pupil should be fully dilated with atropine. The frequency with which cataract com- mences in striae at the edge of the lens, makes it impossible to state with any precision the condition of the whole structure with an undilated pupil. The stria;, which were undiscernible before the introduction of this instrument, are recognised with the greatest facility, appearing as black markings on the red field of the choi'oid. By fully dilating the pupil, also, we are able to examine well the capsule of the lens, which is often rendered spotted by deposits of uvea from the surface of the iris, and thus gives rise to muscce and indistinctness of vision. SECTION XIV.—DISEASES OF THE CHOROID ; ASTHENOPIA ; SYNCHYSIS ; AND HYDROPHTHALMIA. I. Inflammation of the Choroid, or Choroiditis, is not a common disease ; Dr. Mackenzie has generally met with it in strumous females. Symptoms.—It commences with more or less intolerance of light, and dimness of vision, together with pain in the eye, eyebrow, and fore- head, and lachrymation. The conjunctiva is not uniformly red, but one or more enlarged vessels are seen to proceed from the back of the eye, and to terminate in a vascular zone partially surrounding the cornea. The pupil is often displaced, and brought towards the affected side of the choroid. If it proceed, the sclerotic becomes thin and blue, showing the choroid through it—(staphyloma scleroticce), and finally the cornea may become opaque, and the whole globe very much en- larged and protruding from the socket. The digestive organs are generally much deranged from the fiist, and hectic and emaciation come on when the eye becomes much distended and painful. See ophthalmoscopic appearances of diseased choroid, page 437. Treatment.—If an acute case of the sort should occur in a strong constitution, local bleeding, purgatives, blisters to the nape of the neck, and warm or vapour baths, and mercury, may be necessary. But in cases of debility, great caution must be used in regard to depleting measures and mercury ; and together with the latter some tonic should always be given. Counter-irritation is always of service. When the