475 AFFECTIONS OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. lip has been so destroyed by cancrum oris, or by ulceration, or opera- tion, as to occasion deformity, and difficulty of speaking, or of retaining the saliva. Such operations may consist infringing soft parts from the sides of the face towards the middle line, and retaining them by a twisted sutnre, as in hare-lip ; but the exact incisions required must depend on the circumstances of the case, which may vary ad infinitum. In other cases, sufficient substance to form a new lip may be raised from below, by making acuived incision from one masseterto the other below the chin. A vertical incision downwards in the middle line will allow a considerable flap to be raised on each side to the proper level to form a new under lip. The incision in the middle line must now be stitched together, and the new lip must be kept up to its proper place, and prevented from being again drawn down, by stitching its lower margin to the periosteum of the jaw. This plan was proposed by Dr. Hamilton, U. S. Operations may also be required for enlarging the mouth when too small; in which case, after sufficient incision, the cut edges of the skin and mucous membrane should be united by sutures, so that they may heal over (see Phymosis). In a case of this sort, Mr. Hancock, before making his incision, ascertained, by desiring his patient to grin, the exact insertion of the levators of the angles of the mouth, and carried his incisions to this spot. For contracting the mouth, if too large, or if one corner of it is rendered flabby and unmanageable by palsy of the portio dura, Mr. Hilton has cut a piece from one corner.* SECTION II.—AFFECTIONS OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. I. Foreign Bodies may be removed from the nose by a small curette, or scoop, or bent probe. If they cannot be brought through the nostrils, they may be pushed back into the throat. The removal should be effected as early as possible. II. Epistaxis, or hcemorrhage from the nose, may, like other hajmorrhages, be produced, 1st, by injury ; 2ndly, it may be an active haemorrhage of arterial blood caused by general excitement and plethora, or by determination of blood to the head, or by the suppression of some other discharge, or by one of those forms of irritation of mucous membrane, common in the scrofulous and phthisical; 3rdly, it may be a passive draining of venous blood, owing to obstruction of the circulation by disease of the heart or liver, or to a morbidly-thin state of the blood, together with relaxation of the vessels, as happens in scurvy, purpura, and the last stage of fever. Treatment.—1. If the patient be i-ed-faced, plethoric, and subject to headache and giddiness, the hsemorrhage may be regarded as a salutary * See the siu'gical works of Fergusson, Syme, Pancoast, and Jobert de Lam- balle ; Hilton's Clinical Lectures, Lancet, 1853, vol. i.; Case of Eestoration of Lip, by Dr. F. H. Hamilton, of the United States; Ranking, vol. xvi.; Mr. Hancock's case, Lancet, 10th Sept., 1853. By the way, it is much to be desired that plain FiOglish be used instead of dog Greek. To speak of a Rliinoplastic operation on the lip is ridiculous; and reminds one of the French phrases biftek de veau, and rosbif de mouton.