244 DISEASES OF THE BONES. treatment as for chronic inflammation of bone. The severe nightly pain is, after the application of leeches, best relieved by renewed blis- ters. Fi-eqnent and regular application of the iodine paint is very elTective in relieving the pain and causing absorption ^of the effusion, whether resulting from blows, rheumatism, syphilis, or scrofula. An incision is sometimes necessary if there is a collection of fluid between the periosteum and bone, and no measures succeed in producing its ab- sorption and allaying the pain ; but it very often happens, especially in venereal cases, that mercury (if not previously administered to excess), or the iodide of potassium, sarsaparilla, and blisters, will accomplish those objects. If not, subcutaneous incision, effected by passing a long narrow blade under the skin for the distance of an inch or two into the swelling, may succeed in relieving pain and tension, and. disengorging the distended blood-vessels, after all other remedies have failed. The scrofulous form admits of only palliative and constitutional treatment, ^ V. Abscess is a rare consequence of in- flammation of the bone. A cavity lined with a vascular membrane, and filled with pus, is formed in the substance of a bone, generally the tibia, which may or may not be unusually dense around it. There may possibly be a small piece of necrosed bone confined in the cavity, or some of that yellow decayed lymph called " cheesy tubercle." Abscess may be suspected when, in addition to permanent inflammatory enlargement and tenderness (which may have lasted for years), there is a fixed tensive pain at one particular spot, aggravated at night, and unrelieved by any remedy, though perhaps it may have occasional remissions. The two affections that are most likely to be confounded with it are neuralgia and chronic inflammation. Treatment. — When there is good reason to suspect the existence of abscess, the bone must be laid bare by an X or H incision, and an opening be made with a trephine at the precise seat of the pain. Mr. H. Lee recommends the trephine to be very small, as then more than one perforation can be made, if needful; and he has shown that this operation may be resorted to witli benefit, not only in cases of abscess, but in many others, in which the bone is ex- tremely condensed, and its interior contains the residue of previous effusion. After the pus is evacuated, the wound must be left to granu- late and cicatrize.f * Circumscribed abscess in bone, f Sir B. Brodie's Lecture, Med. Gaz., Surgical Essays, 1854, p. 44. Dec. 1845 ; Lee's Patliological and