BOIL. 228 skin. The most frequent situation is the chest; but such tumours are partial to the site of cicatrices (especially in people of colour, and sol- diers after flogging), and are often multiple. Occasionally superficial ulcers occur; but in most cases this disease leads to no ill consequences. It is extremely liable to return after extirpation. Iodine and arsenic should be cautiously tried, F. 94, 97.* VII. MoLLUSCUM.—A malady consisting in the development of numerous tumoui's on any part of the body where hair grows ; varying in size from that of a small shot to that of an orange ; hard and pain- less ; either embedded, or prominent and stalked ; sometimes exuding a milky fluid from a minute aperture; consisting, according to Dr. L. Beale, of an altei ation of the hair follicles, and hypertrophy of the areolar tissue. Probably the chloride of arsenic, if resorted to early, might cause diminution of the tamoxirs (F. 97). But if one or more becomes very inconvenient, it may be cut out.f VII[. Moles.—Oblong patches of imperfectly-organised skin with black matter in its interstices, small vascular patches, and other con- genital imperfections of the skin, should be extirpated, if at any time they seem inclined to spread and become irritable, because it is pos- sible that they might become the nidus of epithelioma, or of cancer. The health should be carefully wat(!hed under such circumstances. IX. Cancer of the skin may be a result of the propagation of the disease from the breast, or from some gland; or may be primary. Sometimes it affects the scirrhous form, and presents itself in the shape of one or more hard tubercular dull-red masses ; sometimes it begins as an innocent-looking, but rapidly-growing wart, which speedily assumes the characters of soft cancer ; bleeds or exudes a sanious liquid, and contaminates the nearest glands. The melanotic variety is also common. It is a frequent occurrence that cancer is deposited in warts, moles, and similar growths; and it is possible that it may be combined in one tumour with epithelioma. For the clinical history and treat- ment we must I'efer to the Chapter on Cancer. X. Boil (Furunculus).—A circumscribed round hard swelling, de- pending on inflammation of one spot of the true skin, and on the deposit therein of unhealthy lymph; usually attended with the acutest pain and tenderness ; and ending in suppuration, and the discharge of a flake of softened lymph, and a small sloughy shred of areolar tissue, which form what is called a core. It is caused by blood disorder, from unwholesome food, or from unknown epidemic atmospheric causes, or from depressing influences generally. It may be acute, with great pain, swelling, and fever; or chronic, indolent, hard, and slow to sup- purate ; or may come out in crops, one coming so soon as the preceding one is healed. Treatment,—If acute, poultices ; and so soon as suppuration is fully * Warren on Tumours, p. 40; Burgess's Translation of Cazenave, p. 305; Mayo's Pathology, p. 236; Lebert, sur les Maladies Cancereuses, p. 682; Long- more, Med. and Chir. Trans, vol. xlvi. f Bateman, Cutaneous Diseases; Lionel S. Beale, Pathological Trans, vol. vi.