PERMANENT STRICTURE. 609 The causes are repeated gonorrhoea, intemperance, and iinhor.ltliy conditions of the urine. Symptoms.—In what may be called the fiist st ige, the patient finds that he wants to make water oftener than usual, and that he has more or less uneasy sensation in the peri- nasum alter doing so ; he also notices that a few drops hang in the urethra, and dribble from him after he has buttoned up. Then he observes that the stream of water is smaller than usual, and forked, or scattered, or twisted, and that he requires a longer time and greater eftb)t than usual to pass it. Itching of the end of the penis and gleety discharge -are Se- quent concomitants. If the disease proceeds to its second stage, the bladder becomes irritable, obliging the patient to rise in the night to void his urine. He is liable to attacks of spasms with complete letention, as was described in the pre- ceding section. In one of these, the urethra may ulcerate or burst, giving rise to urinary abscess, or to extravasation of urine, as will be de- scribed in the next section. Rigors occurring in paroxysms like ague fits are not uncommon. (See Section Vll.) Finally, if the complaint is permitted to continue, the health suffers from the constant irritation and want of sle^p; the bladder and kidneys become diseased; the complexion becomes wan ; the appetite fails ; the patient complains of chills and flushes, of aching and weakness in the divides the urethra into three regions ; and iinds that out of two hundred and seventy specimens, two hundred and tifteen, or sixty-seven per cent., are situated in the first region; which comprises an inch of the canal before, and three- quarters of an inch behind, tlie junction between the spongy and membranous portions of the urethra. "That part of tbe urethra," says Mr. Thompson^ " which is most frequently affected with stricture, is the portion comprised in the inch anterior to the junction; that is, the posterior or l)ulbous part of the spongy portion." The second region, comprising two and a half or three inches in front of the first, was the seat of fifty-one strictures, or sixteen per cent.; and the tliird region, consisting of the anterior two and a half inches, fifty-four, or seventeen per cent. * This drawing, from a preparation in the King's College Museum, shows the urethra laid open, and a stricture in the membanous portion just in front of the verumontanum. D 2 E