DISEASES OF THE PENIS. 662 CHAPTER XXI. DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITALS. SECTION I.—DISEASES OF THE PENIS. I. Phymosis signifies a preternatural constriction of the orifice of the foreskin, so that the glans cannot be uncovered without difficulty, if at all. It may be a congenital affection, or may be caused by the contracted cicatrices of ulcers. Besides the obstruction which it occasions to the functions of the organ, it prevents the washing away of the secretions from the corona glandis, and thus renders the patient liable to ft equent balanitis and gleets, and in advanced age to epithelioma of the penis; and it is a source of great trouble if he happen to be afl'ected with the venereal disease. Treatment*—The surgeon may either circumcise, that is, cut off the end of the foreskin, which is advisable if the end is thickened and gristly, or may sht it up. If he circumcises, he should draw out the end of the foreskin, hold it between the blades of forceps, and cut it straight off; after which, with scissors, he should cut up the mucous lining of the foreskin to the corona, so as quite to uncover the glans. If he prefers the slitting plan,a director maybe introduced about an inch between the glans and prepuce, and a curved, narrow-pointed bistoury passed along its groove, by which the prepuce may be slit up. Then, in the adult, after either operation, four or five fine sutures should be passed through the margin of the incision, so as to draw together the edge of the skin and that of the mucous lining of the prepuce, that they may unite by adhesion. If this is not done, the skin and mucous membrane will be separated by the swelling and occasional erection that follows the operation, and the wound, instead of being a mere line, will be half an inch wide. In a young child, these sutures, however, may be dispensed with without disadvantage, the operation being rendered much shorter and less painful. Instead of these operations it is now proposed to make two or three cuts, each about a quarter of an inch deep, through the skin and mucous membrane * The author early this year saw a Cambridge student, £et. 23, alfected with congenital phymosis of the tightest kind. He advised him to come up to town in the long vacation to be circmucised; and meanwhile, for the sake of clean- liness, daily to inject warm water under the prepuce. The result was that the orifice spontaneously gave way, and no operation was required.