DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 503 require surgical remedies, we must pass over the various other sorts of sore throat which are assigned to the physician; merely remarking that the affection which we have described as quinsy, is phlegmonous and deep, yet that the superficial and catarrhal inflammations require nearly similar treatment. SECTION II.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. I. Spasm of the CEsophagus [spasmodic stricture) is known by its generally occurring in sudden fits—the patient at a meal finding himself altogether incapable of swallowing, and the attempt to do so producing spasmodic pain and a sense of choking. The diagnosis be- tween this and the organic ox permanent stricture is founded on the suddenness of its accession: it being much better at some times than at others; and the fact that the bougie, if passed, either meets with no obstruction, or with one that very easily yields. Treatment.—This affection always depends on a weakened or hyste- rical state of the system, or on the presence of some other disorder, as has been mentioned whilst treating of neuralgia. Brodie relates a case that ceased on the removal of bleeding piles; and Mayo another that was cured by relieving chronic disease of the liver. Tonics, antispas- modics, and alteratives, especially iron with aloes and galbanum at bed- time : exercise in the open air; the shower-bath, and other forms of warm and cold bathing ; great attention to the diet; care not to swal- low anything imperfectly masticated or too hot; and the occasional passage of a bougie, are the remedies. II. Palsy of the CEsophagus occasions inability of swallowing, but without pain or other symptoms of spasm ; and a bougie, when passed, meets with no obstruction. It generally depends on organic disease of the brain or spinal cord, which must be examined into and cured if possible. The patient should be fed by the stomach-pump, by nutrient enemata, and by pushing soft food occasionally down the oesophagus with a probang. The palsy has sometimes been tempora- rily relieved by electrifying the patient on an insulating stool. Nu- trient enemata should be composed of very strong beef or mutton broth, without salt or spice. The quantity injected at one time should not exceed four ounces ; and if the rectum does not retain it a few drops of laudanum should be adde>l. III. Dilatation and Sacculation.—The cesophagus has been found after death exceedingly dilated. The symptoms during life were great dysphagia,—food, when swallowed, never seemed to reach the stomach, and was vomited in a few minutes. If this condition should be ascertained during life, the patient should be fed as in palsy. Some- times a blind pouch is connected with the cesophagus, and occasions great distress in swallowing, by intercepting the food. It may be formed either by a protrusion of the mucous membrane through the muscular fibres, or by the sac of an abscess which has burst into the