THE EFFECTS OF COLD. 165 In the same case, a severe contraction of the skin of the neck, bind- ing the chin down to the sternum, was successfully overcome by adja- cent transplantation of skin, in such a manner as to produce a nari-o\v longitudinal cicatrix, after removal of the more resisting portions of the original cicatrix producing the deformity.* CHAPTER Y. THE EFFECTS OF COLD. I. Effects of Severe Cold.—AVhen a person is exposed to very severe cold, especially if it be accompanied with wind,—or if it be during the night,—or if he have been exhausted by hunger, watching, and fatigue—he feels almost an irresistible impulse to sleep, which, if yielded to, is soon succeeded by coma and death. During the state of coma, the body of the suiferer is found to be very pale and cold: the respiration and pulse almost imperceptible, and the pupils dilated ; but the limbs are flexible as long as life remains, unless the degree of cold be very great indeed. On a post-mortem examination, the chief mor- bid appearances observed are great venous congestion and serous effusion in the head. II. Frost-bite.—But if the trunk of the body be well protected, the cold may alfect some exposed part only, such as the nose, ears, or extremities. The lirst visible etfect is, that the part becomes of a dull purplish-red colour; an effect of cold which is notoriously frequent, and which depends on a diminution of the quantity of blood conveyed by the arteries, and a stagnation of it in the A^eins. If the cold con- tinue, the venous blood will be gradually expelled by a contraction of the tissues, and the part will become of a livid, tallowy paleness, per- fectly insensible, and motionless, and much reduced in bulk. When in this condition, a part is said to be frost-bitten. The patient may be quite unconscious of the accident that has befallen him until he is told of it by some other person ; especially if it be his nose or ear that is affected, or some other part that he does not move. It was shown by Hunter that the ears of rabbits and combs of cocks may'be frozen so as to he quite white and hard and brittle, and yet re- cover with proper care. And some of the lower orders of animals may be entirely frozen and yet survive. But it is not credible that a whole limb of a human being, much less that the whole body, could be frozen without death ensuing—although stories of such occurrences have long been current amongst authors.f The indications are to promote reaction, but to avoid too sudden a transition from one extreme to the opposite. * Medico-CMrurgical Transactions, vol. xlvi. p. 149. t See an account of some experiments on tbe revival of toads after freezing in the Lond. and Ed. Journ. Med. Sc., Feb. 18i3.