379 TREPHINING. Treatment.—The prevention of inflammation after injury depends chiefly on the most perfect quiet of mind and body, which may be in- sured by a careful administration of morphia; by free purging; a moderately low diet; and the application of cold to the head. The earliest symptoms are to be combated by free bleeding and leeching, with cold to the shaved head, and purgatives with antimony. If exuda- tion seems to be pouring out, as indicated by the persistence of the symptoms, in spite of depletion, the remedies are mercuiy given so as to atfect the system—for instance, two grains of calomel every six hours; blisters to the head or nape of the neck; mustard cataplasms to the feet; terebinthinate or stimulant enemata ; and trephining, if suppuration is indicated by symptoms of compression (and especially by palsy of the opposite side of the body), by the above-mentioned state of the wound, or Pott's puffy tumour. The trephine should be large, and if the matter be seated between the dura-mater and skull, it may aff'ord relief. But so capricious are the symptoms of injury and disease of the brain, so difficult the diagnosis, so impossible is it to be always sure of the precise seat of inischief, and so inherently dangerous are these injuries necessarily, that the trephine may not lay bare the real mischief, or even, if it does, may give no relief. Abscess in the brain, or softening, may be very remote consequences of injury, not occurring perhaps for years. Their symptoms are very obscure and insidious. Occasional headache; general loss of health and strength ; impairment of the memory or other mental faculties; quick pulse, and furred tongue; disorder of the eyes or ears ; sense of constriction, or of coldness in the scalp, or of creeping in the limbs, with numbness, are the most frequent. But these are succeeded by sudden convulsions, or palsy, or coma, from which the patient soon dies, although he may perhaps recover for a time. Treatment.—Blisters, issues, or setons; purgatives ; the most regular diet, and avoidance of every kind of excitement of mind or body, are the remedies in case mischief is expected. After the occurrence of palsy, or other decided symptoms, blisters : leeches, if the pulse is strong enough, and there is pain or heat in the head; purgatives and enemata. But if the patient is low and feeble, he must be supported by mild nutriment and stimulants, especially ammonia, quinine, and nutritious soup. SECTION VII.—TREPHINING AND PARACENTESIS. I. Trephining.—The apparatus requisite for this operation com- prises a large and small trephine, a straight and curved Hey's saw, an elevator, a couple of small pairs of holding forceps, with fine points, straight and curved—besides a good scalpel, and the other instruments which every surgeon is supposed to have in his pocket. There are four cases which may require this operation. 1. Fracture of the skull with depression of bone. 2. Extravasation of blood under the skull. 3. Suppuration of the dura-mater. And, lastly, occa- sional cases of epilepsy arising from the ii-ritation of a diseased spot