335 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. toes, should be accurately bandaged from its extremity, in order to di- minish its entire circulation, and it should be placed in a raised position. When the palmar arch is wounded, one compress may be placed on the wound, and another on the back of the hand ; a paper-knife or strong slip of wood may then be laid on each compress transversely across the hand, and their ends be firmly tied together. In some cases it will be impossible to apply compression in any other way than by the fingere of the operator and his assistants, relieving each other at regular inter- vals till bleeding ceases. This is termed " digital compression," and has often saved valuable lives. 3. Cold (especially sponging with iced water, or covering the bleed- ing part with ice in bladders) is applicable to cases of bleeding from numerous small vessels. 4. Styptics are of various kinds. 1. Some of them check hsemor- rhage, by opposing a mechanical obstacle to the exit of blood—as the a^anc, and other porous substances which entangle it; 2, others act by coagulating the blood; or 3, by causing contraction of the bleeding vessels ; or 4, by exciting the adhesive inflammation and formation of granulations. The tincture or solution of perchloride of iron ; a satu- rated solution of alum ; tui-pentine, creosote, the nitrate of silver, and the matioo leaf, ai'e the best. They are applicable to the same cases as cold and pressure; that is, when the bleeding vessels are very nume- rous and small. The actual cautery, which is the most potent styptic of all, has two operations. If the iron be red hot, it stops bleeding mechanically, by burning up the orifices of the vessels; but the bleed- ing is liable to return when the eschar separates. It is better, there- fore, to use the iron at a black heat, for it then excites the adhesive in- dammation; and is very efficacious for arteries that either cannot be tied, or that are too diseased to hold the ligature. A pinch with the forceps will often cause small vessels to cease bleeding. Many obsti- nate haemon-hages from small vessels cease when the wound is cleared of coagulum, and the bleeding part exposed to the air, or sluiced with iced water, and bound up again. 5. Medical Treatment.—In cases of arterial hajmoiThage, which there is any difficulty in restraining by ligature or otherwise, it will be necessary to keep the patient in the recumbent posture, and to tran- quillize the heart's action by opium. The diet should consist of milk, broth, and other substances that nourish without stimulating. Supposing that so gi"eat a loss of blood has taken place as to en- danger the patient's life, the head must be kept low: beef-tea with brandy be given frequently by spoonfuls, and opium in small doses every thi'ee or four hours. It has been recommended in extreme cases to apply a tourniquet to ^h of the unaffected limbs, with a view of retaining in them as much blood as possible. In a desperate case, where life would evidently be lost without it, transfusion should be resorted to. See Part V. Chapter II.