DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 322 fix the apparatus with the extending or pulley side fixed higher than the counter-extending or body side, 2. The dislocation backwards (commonly called the dislocation into the sciatic notch) is a modification of the preceding, and is known by the following symptoms:—The limb is shortened from half an inch to an inch; the toes rest on the ball of the great toe of the other foot; the knee is advanced and turned inwards, but not so much as in the last case; the trochanter is rather behind its natural position, and not so prominent, and the head of the bone can scarcely be felt. This position of the head of the femur may be the result of ill-directed attempts to reduce a dislocation on tlie dorsum ilii, Treatmeixt.—Reduction by flexion if possible. If main force is used the patient should be placed on the sound side, and the limb be drawn across the middle of the opposite thigh. After a little while the upper part of the limb should be lifted by means of a napkin, so as to raise the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum, the thigh being at the same time rotated outwards.* 3. In the dislocation downwards, the head of the bone is thrown into the thtjroid foramen, or on the obturator externus. The symptoms are as follow:—the limb is lengthened one or two inches; it is drawn away from the other; the toes point downwards and directly forwards; and the body is bent forwards, because the psoas muscle is on the stretch. In this, as in all other dislocations of the hip-joint, the liga- mentum teres is torn across. Treatment.—The object is to draw the head of the bone outwards, and rather upwards. There are two methods of effecting this. In the first place, the patient may be laid on his back on a bed, with one of the bedposts between his thighs, and close up to the perinaeum. Then the foot may be carried inwards, across the median line ; so that the bedpost, acting as a fulcrum, may throw the head of tlie femur out- wards. But the foot must not be raised, otherwise the head of the femur may slip round under the acetabulum into the sciatic notch. (2.) Or the pelvis may be fixed sideways by a broad band, and the pulleys be applied to the upper part of the thigh, to draw it out- wards at riglit angles to the body: whilst the knee is at the same time pulled downwards and inwards. * The above account is condensed from Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. chap, ii, sect. iv. Mr. Richard Quain has published (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi.) an account of a careful dissection of a recent case of this injury, and of experi- ments made to determine the exact relation of the visible deformity to the true position of the head of the bone ; and has concluded that, in the ordinary form of this dislocation, the head of the femur does not reach the sciatic notch, but is lodged immediately behind the acetabulum, over the base of the ischiatic spine, and opposite to a small part of each of the two sacro-sciatic foramina; that the advanced position of the displaced limb at the knee, and the situation of the foot with " the toe resting against the great toe of the other foot" are not neces- sarily present; that during the extension the thigh should be at a right angle witli the abdomen, and in a state of abduction; that the extending force should be applied above the knee; and that this joint should be bent in order to relax the sciatic nerve, which runs either immediately before or behind the displaced head of the bone.