EPITHELIOMA. 471 should go through about two-thirds of the thickness of the hp. The first should be put through the lower angles, where it is most essential that the adaptation should be most exact; another may run through and compress any artery that bleeds; a third higher up. Then the centre of a long slip of lint, or of twine, should be wound round the uppermost pin and be brought round the others as shown in the chapter on Incised Wounds; besides which, Mr. Fergusson cements the suture and lip by a plentiful application of collodion. In order to prevent any strain on the stitches, it is now usual to put on a spring truss invented by Dr. Dewar, of Aberdeen, and so contrived as gently to press the cheeks towards the middle line. This is worn till adhesion is firmly established. The diet of the patient, if an infant, will give no trouble. If he be older, it should be nutritious. There need be no hurry in withdrawing the pins; the fifth or seventh day will be soon enough ; and then the cicatrix should be supported by plaster. If union should fail, the pins or some other suture should be in- serted again, to take the chance of union during the granulation stage. Instead of the twisted suture, some surgeons trust to the common interrupted suture. The button suture, represented in the adjoining cut, is warmly recommended by * Dr. Wood, now of Barnwood House, Gloucester, who has veiy successfully cultivated this branch of plastic surgery. He uses on each side two perforated silver discs having wires soldered to their backs, over which a double ligature is tied, after having been passed through the lip. Mr. Wood believes that by thus avoiding the pinching and rigidity of the needles, he obtains a more efficient and unobjectionable mode of union ; and recom- mends the same suture in cases of divided periuEBum and similar cases.f If the hare dip is double, both sides may be operated on at once, the middle flap being transfixed by the sutures. But care should be taken to push up the middle flap towards the nose, so as to render the latter organ more prominent, as it is in genei'al very flat in cases of hare-lip, V. Cancer of the Lip is a very rare disease, and, according to Lebert, more commonly attacks the upper than the lowei-lip. What is popularly called cancer of the lip is in reality— V"I. Epithelioma, of which disorder the lower lip is the favourite seat. Epithelioma, the so-called cancer, or epithelial cancer of the lip, is a disease of middle, or paulo-post-rmMlQ hfe, and affects the lower rather than the higher classes, men much more often than women, and * Dr. Wood's buttons—natural size. t See paper by Dr. Wood,in Med. Gaz., 1841; Haynes Walton, Mei. Times, June, 1848 ; Fergusson, op, cit.