THE EFFECTS OF COLD. 166 Of Frost-bite.—The best remedy for a frost-bite is to rub the part well with snow. After a time cold water may be substituted for the snow, and the friction may be rendej-ed brisker. These applications must be made in a room without a fire ; and a high or even a mode- rate temperature must be avoided for some time. By these means no other inconvenience will ensue, save slight swelling and tingling, with vesication and desquamation of the cuticle; although the part will re- main weak and sensible to cold for some time. For the coma induced by cold the best remedy is friction with flannel all over the surface of the body ; the patient should be put to bed in a room of moderate temperature, ammonia and weak wine and water be administered, and, provided the breathing is restored, a warm bath may be given. The contact of any intensely-cold body (such as frozen mercury) causes severe burning pain, followed by vesication. It thus appears that the effects of sudden abstraction may be similar to those of too great communication of heat. The best application is ice gradually permitted to thaw. III. Gangrene maybe caused if cold be applied continuously to the extremities, especially of ill-fed persons; hence the frequency of gangrene of the feet (gelatio) amongst the starved soldiers in the Crimea. It may be caused, too, if heat be injudiciously applied to frozen or frost-bitten parts. It may also ensue if a part has been exposed for a long period to a low temperature which is suddenly raised; although the cold may not have been sufficient to cause actual frost- bite, and may have been tolerated without inconvenience. A good example of this accident is related by Baron Larrey,* as it affected the French troops during their campaign in Poland in 1807. During the few days preceding and following the battle of Eylau, the cold was most intense, ranging from 10° to 15° below the zero of Reaumur, f But although the troops were day and night exposed to this inclement weather, and the soldiers of the Imperial Guard, in particular, were nearly motionless for more than twenty-four hours, there were no com- plaints of its effects. On the night of the 9th of February, however, a sudden thaw commenced, and immediately a number of soldiers pre- sented themselves at the " ambulances," complaining of severe numb- ness, weight, and pricking pain in the feet. On examination, some were found to have slight swelling and redness at the base of the toes and dorsum of the foot; whilst the toes of others had already become black and dry. And in this manner, the toes, and sometimes the whole foot perished. One case, exactly similar, was treated by Mr. Solly in St. Thomas's Hospital in 1845. The patient, not very temperate, had been employed a whole day in January in handling raw cow-hides. In the evening, feeling his left hand excessively cold and stiff, he put it into warm water, and held it to the fire, which excited great pain and inflammation, ending in gangrene, which spread up to the middle of * Med. de Chir. Mil., torn. iii. p. 61. •j- From 20 to 25 degrees below the freezing-point of Fahrenlieit.