801 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. kins, Mr. O'Leaiy, Mr. Crerar, Dr. Hyde, and Dr. MacAndrew were the operators. The surgeon may, according to circumstances, make a long, straight incision down the outer side of the limb, beginning a little below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and going down over the tro- chanter. If room is not obtained by that incision, it may be enlarged by a transverse cut backwards either fioin the upper or lower end. The attachments of muscles having been severed from the trochanter, the bone is turned out of the wound by raising it at the knee, the shattei'ed parts are sawn off, and the neck and head of the bone, if necessary, dissected out of the acetabulum. Or, the incision, as re- commended by Mr. Guthrie, may be in the shape of a semilunar flap, beginning just over the inner edge of the tensor vagina femoris muscle, and curving downwards and outwards, so as to cross the bone at least an inch below the ti ochanter, whence it should turn upwards to the extent of about three inches. This flap, including skin, fascia lata, tensor vaginae femoris, and part of the glutasus maximus, should be turned up, the muscles attached to the injured parts be divided, and the remaining steps of the operation be as before. The experience of the American war is adverse to amputations for gunshot fracture, and very little more favourable to excision. Dr. Chisholm says he knows of two successful cases,* VII. Excision of the knee-joint was first performed in 1762 by Mr. Filken, of Northwich, in Cheshire ; it was subsequently performed twice by Mr. Park of Livei pool, twice by Sir Philip Crampton, and twice by Mr. Syme. One of Mr. Park's cases was eminently suc- cessful, so was one of Crampton's, Park's patient, who was a sailor, was able to go aloft and perform the usual duties of his calling. Altogether, there are records of 19 cases performed by British and continental sui'geons up to the year 1830. Of these 19 there were only about 8 recoveries; the remaining 11 died, but not all from the operation.! From 1830 to 1850 the operation was in abeyance, and almost universally condemned by teachers of surgery, until, in the latter year, it was revived by Mr. W. Fergusson. Next to Mr. Fergusson, the late Mr. Jones of Jersey, whose success in all departments of operative sur- gery were remarkable; Mr. Page of Carlisle; the late lamented Mac- kenzie of Edinburgh, who lost his life in the Crimea; Dr. Pritchard of Filey ; Mr. Evan Thomas of Manchester ; Dr. Cotton of Lynn ; Mr. Holt and Mr, Henry Smith, are entitled to the credit of having early performed this operation with success. Dr, Murray Humphry of Cam- bridge, and Mr. Butcher of Dublin, have also been frequent and suc- cessful operators. It is no disrespect to the living to add, that poor Price, had he been spared, might have excelled them all. The cases in which it ought to be performed are, generally speaking, * Manual of Military Surgery for the Use of Surgeons in the Con- federate States Army, Columbia, 1864. f Vide S. Cooper's Surgical Diet., art. Joints. D 3 F