TUMOURS OF THE JAW-BONE. 482 pharynx (where they may be felt by passing the fingers up behind the velum pendulum), and implication and adhesion of neighbouring parts, give the best grounds for pronouncing the growth cancerous. Treatment.—For all these tumours, excepting decided and rapidly- growing cancers, extirpation as early as possible is the remedy. In cases of cysts, however, attached to the front of the bone, it suffices to lay them freely open, by removing their anterior wall. The student who desires to understand, and the surgeon who proposes to execute, this operation, may naturally divide it into two parts ; first, the incisions through the soft parts necessary for laying bare the tumour ; and, secondly, the division of those processes of bone necessary for detaching it afterwards. The great experience of Mr. Fergusson has enabled him very materially to abridge the incisions through the soft parts. In the case of a very small tumour, it may be perfectly possible to remove it through the mouth ; but if this opening be in- sufficient, Mr. Fergusson cuts through the upper lip exactly in the middle line, and carries the incision into the nostril. By thus availing himself of the natural expansion of the nostrils, he gains as much room as by a much larger incision from the angle of the mouth, and there is less bleeding at the time, and less deformity afterwards. If, however, the tumour requires more room for its removal, the incision just de- scribed must be carried up between the ala of the nose and the cheek, to within half an inch of the eye; probably another from the angle of the mouth to the zygoma; possibly another at right angles to this. After this the operator must dissect up the flap of the cheek, large or small, from the tumour, so as to lay it quite bare; and, in so doing, the infraorbital artery and nerve will probably be divided. The next step of the operation consists in the division of the various attachments of the tumour, and in removing it. If circumscribed and seated in the fiont wall of the antrum, it may be sawn round and de- tached by forceps, without removing the alveoli; otherwise the surgeon begins by extracting an incisor on the one side, and a bicuspid or molar tooth on the other side of it, and by cutting through with his bistoury the gum and mucous membrane covering the bone at the parts where separation is to be effected. Perhaps he may turn the membrane back in flaps, so as to save as much as possible of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth. Then he cuts through the bone with curved bone forceps ; or, if necessary, he grooves the bone above and on either side with small saws of various sizes and shapes, sawing quite through the alveolar processes, and completing the separation of the tumour with the cutting bone forceps. But let us suppose that the tumour is large, and requires the re- moval of the body of the superior maxillary bone, but not the malar or floor of the orbit. If the student examines a skull, he will see that the bones which require to be divided are these:—viz., first, the horizontal palatine plates of the superior maxillary and palatine bones, with the alveoli corresponding to the incisor teeth. This (after the ' alveoli are sawn through) may be done with a saw, or by means of