427 CATAKACT. surgeon, and the duties of the assistant, are the same as required for the operation of extraction. The pupil should be dilated with atropine. Operation.—A curved needle is passed through the outer side of the sclerotic, the ^th part of an inch behind the margin of the cornea, and in the transverse axis of the globe. It is carried into the vitreous humour, the posterior capsule of the lens lacerated, then upwards and forwards behind the iris, and in front of the cataract; which then is steadily and gently pressed upon till it is carried downwards out of sight. It should be held down for a few moments to fix it, and if it rise again, it must be again depressed for a short time. Then the needle is with- drawn. III. The Operation for producing Absorption is very easily performed, and excites veiy little inflammation ; but it requires to be repeated several times, and the cure occupies several weeks or months. It is well adapted for soft cataracts, especially the congenital, but does not answer with the hard cataracts of old people. The instruments employed are needles, straight or curved; which are now made of great delicacy, strength, and sharpness. The pupil must be freely dilated. Operations.—1. The needle may be introduced behind the iris in the same manner as for depression. 2. Or the needle may be introduced through the cornea, an opera- tion now styled the anterior operation ; formerly keratonyxis. It is safer, simpler, less painful, and less injurious to the eye than the first mentioned: inasmuch as a wound of the cornea alone is less serious than one irapUcating vitreous humour, sclerotic, conjunctiva, and per- haps retina or ciliary processes. The needle is passed through the cornea close to its margin, and is made to lacerate the capsule to the extent of the pupil, so as to admit the aqueous humour to the substance of the lens; but without displacing or cutting it into fragments, or, in fact, attempting to do too much. This operation is liable to be followed by severe pain and vomiting, if the cataract be so fluid that it mixes readily with the aqueous humour: in this case tJie contents of the anterior chamber should be evacuated, as recom- mended by Mr. Dixon ; or portions of the cataract may press on the iris; in the latter case, the irritation may be so sevei'e as to render it necessary to perform extraction. The operation may require to be repeated after two or three months. 3. There is a third modification of this operation, which Mr. Tyrrell termed drilling. It is particularly adapted for cases of capsular or cap- sulo-lenticular cataract with adhesion of the pupil, caused by iritis. It is performed by introducing a fine straight needle through the cornea near its margin, and passing it through the pupil into the lens to the depth of about one-sixteenth of an inch, and rotating it freely. This operation may be repeated at intervals of four, five, or more weeks. It causes the lens to be dissolved by the aqueous humour; and if the puncture be made in a fresh place at each operation, that portion of the capsule which is behind the pupil may become loosened and detached.