783 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. 1. Circular.—The arm being held out, and an assistant drawing up the skin, one circular incision is made through the integuments, which being forcibly retracted and detached from the deeper structures by a few touches of the point of the knife, and doubled back to the extent of an inch and three quarters, or more, according to the thickness of the arm, another is made down to the bone. These incisions should be made with slight divergences, so as to cut the skin and muscles rather longer in front and behind than at the sides. The subsequent steps are precisely similar to those in amputating the thigh. 2. Flaps.—The knife is entered at one side, carried down to the bone, turned over it, brought out at a point opposite (the vessels being left behind for the second flap), and then made to cut a neat rounded anterior flap two or three inches long. It is next carried behind the bone to make a posterior one of equal length; and is lastly swept round the bone, to divide any remaining fibres. The division of the bone, ligature of the arteries, and treatment of the stump as before. 3. It is occasionally advisable, in order to get as long a stump as possible, to amputate the upper arm with one long flap only, taken from the uninjured or healthy side. The method of doing this will vary with the case to be operated on, and may be left to the judgment of the surgeon. SECTION VI.—AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. This may be performed in a great many ways. The most useful and the most usually employed are, 1. The patient being seated in a chair and well supported, or, which is better, being placed on a firm table, with the arm well raised, and projecting beyond its edge, and the subclavian artery being compressed, the surgeon enters a long, narrow, straight knife at the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle, an inch below the acromion. From this point he thrusts it through the muscle, across the outside of the joint, and brings out the knife at the posterior margin of the axilla. If the left side is operated on, the knife must be entered at the posterior margin of the axilla, and be brought out at the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle. Then, by cutting downwards and outwards, the external flap is made. The arm is then brought down to the side and forcibly adducted, the origins of the biceps and triceps, and insertions of the infra and supra spinatus are next cut through, and the joint is laid open. Finally, the blade of the knife being passed through the joint and placed on the inner side of the head of the bone, must be made to cut the inner flap. 2. The covering for the exposed part of the scapula in the preceding operation was obtained from the deltoid. But it may also be obtained from the muscles in front or behind, supposing the deltoid to be impli- cated in the disease or injury which demands the operation. One elUptical incision may be carried from beneath the middle of the acro- mion behind to the posterior border of the axilla, and another in front to the anterior border cutting through the deltoid down to the bone.