GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE 158 Primary or Secondary amputation.—By the term primary is under- stood an operation perfoimed within forty-eight hours after an injury, and before fever and inflammatory symptoms have set in. Secondary amputation is that which is delayed until inflammatory symptoms have subsi(led and suppuration established. The exj^erience of modern surgeons has decided that amputation, when necessary, should be primary. The late Mr, Guthrie found that the loss after secondary operations was at least three times as great as after primary. The experience of the surgeons in the Crimea cor- roborated this fact to a great extent. The result of the primary and secondaiy operations durnig the second period of the Russian war is seen in the following table, which is copied from the Crimean returns. Primary Operations. Secondary Operations. " Total. Died. Eatio of Mortality per cent. Total. Died. Fatio of Mortality per cent. Amputations of 1 all kinds . j 690 175 25-3 89 38 42-7 It is said that among the Russians in this war there were 3,000 amputations. Of the primary amputations of the arm, lower leg, and loot, one-half recovered ; of the lower and middle thirds of the thigh, two-thirds died; of all the secondary amputations more than two-thirds died. 'i'he patient should, if practicable, be allowed to recover fiom the state of collapse. Too early an operation is liable to be attended with even worse results than one at a much later period. If, however, there is haemorrhage, or any cause which is likely to prolong the collapsed state of the patient, the operation should be performed as soon as possible. Gun-shot wounds of Joints form a class of cases of peculiar interest, inasmuch as they often allow the principles of conservative surgery to be carried out in the treatment of them. Such injuries to the joints of the lower extremities are of more serious import than those of the upper. In the former the joints are larger and the danger to life seems to be in a great measure in proportion to their size. Joints are sometimes severely injured, without any wound of the integuments coveiing them ; thus in cases where the knee has been struck by spent round shot, inflammation, perhaps terminating in sup- puration, may follow. Fragments of shell or bullets may lay open a joint, causing, at the same time, severe destruction of the soft tissues, and perhaps fractur- ing or splintering the bones which enter into the formation of it. When a ball has lodged in the extremity of one of the long bones,