PEEFACE. vii tion, being elaborated in the capillaries, and exuded from them (for all secretions were then supposed to be formed in and by the capillaries, and to issue somehow from invisible exhalant orifices), but likewise that it might be formed in tissues and exudations outside the blood-vessels. J use the word apologetic purposely, because an eminent teacher of surgery with whom I was then familiar reproached me almost as if it were a personal offence to suppose that any "actions" could be done except by the capillaries, just as he considered me also a blind heretic for doubting the doctrine of John Hunter, that ulcers were eaten out by the "mouths of the absorbents." At that day the microscopical observers of most authority described what they believed to be the conversion of blood globules into pus globules within the capillaries. They be- lieved that they saw them enlarging in size and losing their colour, and afterwards exuding as pus from the surface of a sore. At that day, too, the student would have been asked "How do cartilages ulcerate?" and he would have been re- quired to answer, " By the agency of the absorbents." And if asked presently, " How can we prove the existence of absorbents (lymphatics) in cartilage?" he would have been expected to reply, " Because they are liable to ulcera- tion." Does the student smile at this as a proof of the blindness of our fathers ? He may smile; but he had better learn humbly that this is but a specimen of the vices inherent in the human mind, from which neither ours nor any age can be free. Yice the first is false observation—observation made with imperfect instruments, or distorted by preconceived ideas in the observer's mind. Yice the second is that kind of argu- mentation, in which what ought to be proved is taken for granted. This is the same now as ever, and is only to be counteracted by a wholesome scepticism, which shall be per- petually probing and testing those doctrines and practices which are most firmly held and implicitly acted on. Another peculiarity of the pathology of that day illustrates a third vice of the human mind, which the student must be on his guard against now as ever. It is that of putting a moral colour on material facts, of allowing the " subjective " to intrude upon the ^' objective," and supposing the figures of our imagination to exist in reality. For example. The earliest microscopic observers, who set to work to explore the phenomena of inflammation in the transparent parts of