* See Travels on Constitutional Irritation, and Hunter on the Blood, chap. ii. DELIRIUM TRAUMATICUM. 3 bottles of hot water put under the axillae and between the thighs. When warmth and circulation are restored, the surgeon will hold his hand, so that he may not run the risk of setting up fever, or of bring- ing on hsemorrhage from any internal organ that may have been injured. — Vomiting may be allayed by soda water with brandy, or by sucking ice; or an opiate enema (F. 101), or by a mustard poultice (F. 156) to the epigastrium.—Hiccup may be relieved by sp. gstheris comp.— Convulsions, delirium, and coma, are to be treated by ammonia, stimu- lants, and beef-tea, with application of cold to the head if hot and throb- bing. Finally, the old vulgar and mischievous habit of bleeding patients immediately after an injury, before they have recovered from a state of faintness and depression, needs only to be mentioned to be condemned.* CHAPTER II, DELIRIUM TRAUMATICUM. The writer has seen three kinds of delirium quickly follow injuries, in- dependently of the light-headedness which may occur during the feverish stage. (1.) One is of the nature of dehrium tremens, and usually affects persons of middle age and intemperate habits. The symptoms are those of delirium tremens. The tongue is moist and tremulous; there is a general tremor of the muscles; the skin is covered with perspiration ; the patient is totally sleepless, irritable in his temper, answers questions in a snappish, or peevish, or incoherent manner ; is often anxious to call himself perfectly well; and, as the malady increases, he becomes restless, impatient, and talkative; wishes perhaps to get out of bed,and attempts to injure his attendants, and soon becomes most furiously maniacal. In some cases, however, the delirium is of a milder cast; the patient is haunted with extravagant ideas and spectral illusions; or fancies himself busied in his ordinary avocations, and talks perpetually about them. The pulse is rapid, face flushed, breathing quick, and most signs of excitement without force. Treatment.—The treatment is that of delirium tremens, and con- sists chiefly of quietude and nourishment, and, if the patient be feeble and an old drunkard, it will be advisable to allow him to choose his favourite liquor, and not to stint him in it. " If in twelve hours, or earlier, after an injury," says Mr. Vincent, the pulse does not indicate increased action, if it becomes fluttering and unequal, when the surface does not seem to evolve heat; when the countenance is listless, and the patient reports himself better than it might be expected ; and particularly if he is not clear in his answer,