CHRONIC TETANUS. 10 on tetanic animals. It has been used of late years by Vella, Manec, Chassaignac, and Spencer Wells. The results are not satisfactory.* Tobacco is an old remedy, and one the action of which seems antago- nistic to tetanus. Bnt it was tried forty years ago with the usual result; that is, it seemed to do good in some cases ; in others, though it may have relieved the symptoms for a time, it failed to save life; and in others, it acted as a decided poison. Latterly it has been cai-e- fully investigated by the Hev. Professor Haughton,t who has shown that nicotine, its active principle, is really an antidote to stri/cJmia, in cold-blooded animals; and has again ui-ged its employment, and has employed it in tetanus. The results seem scarcely more satisfactory than of old ; but probably much is to be done yet in regulating the dose. The dose of nicotine should probably not be more than half a drop, at intervals of four hours. Certainly if any remedy be worth trying it is this. But the author declares that if he himself were patient, he should trust to nourishment, quiet, and wine, and desire to have no specirics tried. SECTION III.—CHRONIC AND INFANTILE TETANUS. Chronic Tetanus is very seldom fatal, although in some rare instances the patient has died completely exhausted by its long con- tinuance ; for it sometimes lasts several weeks. The principal reme- dies are aperients, tonics, chloroform, and the shower-bath. The bowels should be kept freely open, but not by too drastic medicines. Electricity, in the form of sparks, or weak shocks, or P^aradisation down the spine, would probably be of service. J Trismus Infantum is a form of tetanus which is almost unknown in England. It was formerly, however, exceedingly prevalent in Ire- land, and appears to be met with there occasionally, even at present. It carries oft" a vast number of children in the West India Islands; and we learn from Sir H. Holland, that in the desolate rocky Vestmann islands, on the south coast of Iceland, one hundred and eighty-six infants perished of it in twenty-five years, although the population does not exceed one hundred and fifty souls. The causes appear to be, want of ventilation, and filth; or the innutritions and unwholesome diet of the parents, such as the fish and sea-bii'd eggs that form the only suste- nance of the Vestmann islanders ; and the use of irritating applications to the wound left by the falling off of the navel-string. The time at which the disease appears is generally from the fifth to the tenth day after birth ; hence the popular Irish term, nine-day fits. * For an account of Woorali, see Watertoii's Wanderings in South America, 5th Ed. London, 1852. An ass poisoned with woorali, and kept alive by artificial respiration, survived for 25 years. Brodie's Papers in the Phil. Trans, for 181], p. 178, and 1»12, p. 205 ; Morgan's Lecture on Tetanus; Claude Bernard, Lec- tures in Med. Times and Gaz. 1859; Spencer Wells, Three Cases of Tetanus, Proceedings of Royal Med. Chir. Soc. t Medical Times and Gaz. Jan. 12, 1858; Oct. 25,1862; Jan. 31, 1863; J. W. Ogle, ib., Mar. 12, 1864. J Addison on Electricity in Convulsive Diseases, Guy's Hosp. Rep. vol. ii.