487 TUMOUKS OP THE LOWER JAW. Fissure in the antei-ior part of the bony palate may be left, after the fissure in the soft parts behind has been closed. As we have before said, during growth, whilst the bones are pliable, the maxillary bones should be pressed together by means of a truss worn daily for some hours. At puberty, relief may be further attempted by means of an operation first proposed by Dr. J. M. Warren, of Boston (called urano-plastic, from ovpavos, a vault). This consists in paring off the tissues from the bones on each side of the fissure, in two lateral flaps, and stitchmg these together in the middle line. The late Mr. Avery, whose patience and mechani- cal ingenuity admirably fitted him for operations of this nature, was very suc- cessful in closing fissures in the front of the palate, as the writer had opportu- nities of witnessing, Mr. Pollock has also operated successfully.* If no operation can be done success- fully, the last resource is an obturator, or, in plain English, a plug, of gold or caoutchouc, to close the aperture. But this should not be used during growth, otherwise it will hinder any natural process of recovery; and if too large a plug be used, it will cause absorption of the palate, and make the evil worse. V. Tumours of the Lower Jaw may be of any of the varieties which affect the upper jaw, but cancer is not so frequent. Their dis- tinctive characters have been before detailed. Free extirpation is the remedy; and in this, as well as in the case of tumours of the upper jaw, Mr. Fergusson advises the incisions to be carried in such directions as shall cause the least subsequent deformity ; and states his beUef that any portion, or even the whole of the bone, may be taken away without cutting the margin of the lip ; by which means the cicatrix will be less conspicuous, and bleeding from the labial artery will be saved. Mr. Syme adopts the same course. The incisions are carried along, parallel to the horizontal or ascending ramus, and are made so long that the tumour may be thoroughly exposed when the flap is raised. If the tumour is large, and situated near the middle of the bone, it must be laid bare as we have just described. A tooth must be ex- tracted on each side of the tumour: next, the bone may be sawn half through perpendicularly on each side, and then be divided completely by the straight cutting forceps, one blade being passed up on the inner side of the bone, and the othei- placed in the groove made by the saw ; and lastly, the parts attached to the inner side of the bone must be * Pollock, Med. CMr, Trans., 1856.