DISEASES OF THE COKNEA. 410 potassium and the general treatment directed for scrofula. The vin. opii, and ung. hydr. nit. ox. to the eyelids, are almost the only local applications admissible. III. Opacity of the cornea may be divided into two kinds. 1st. The opacity which results from the Adhesive Inflammation, and effusion of fibrine between its layers, or between it and the con- junctiva, which is a very common consequence of inflammation of the cornea, and of scrofulous ulcers during their healing stage ; and 2ndly, the opacity, or leucoma, which is produced by a loss of substance and its resulting cicatrix,—that which follows a pustule of the small-pox, for example. The former kind is in most cases curable; the latter gene- rally not so. When an opacity of the former kind is slight and diffused, it is called nebula; when denser and of a firmer aspect, albugo. Sometimes the lymph forming an albugo becomes vascular, and one or more vessels run to it from the cii-cumference of the eye, and the cornea becomes red and fleshy : this state of things is called pannus. Treatment.— 1. All sorts of irritation about the eye or lids, and most especially inverted lids, or inverted hairs, or granular conjunctiva, must be removed, and any existing degree of inflammation be counter- acted by proper measures. Then, 2, absorption of the lymph may be promoted by counter-irritants, such as blisters or tartar-emetic ointment behind the ears ; by measures calculated to improve the health ; and by the application of stimulants to the eye. The ordinary applications are, caustic lotion (gr. i. ad ^^j.), or hydr. bichlor. gr. i.—ad aq. .^j.; vin. opii; or, ung. hydr. nit. ox. Whichever is selected should not excite long-continued pain or active inflammation. Gooch used to cure opacity of the cornea, even of long standing, and, in fact, other forms of chronic inflammation of the eye, by the administration of corrosive sublimate, in doses that would now be considered hazardous. He gave gr. \ twice a day; and in a few days' time increased the dose to gr. ^, and then to gr. i. It caused feverishness, purging, slight sweating, and headache. IV. Leucoma signifies an opaque cicatrix of the cornea. If recent, it may become much better spontaneously, or may be partially re- moved by the measures just indicated. If of long standing, it is irre- mediable, and sometimes becomes the seat of calcareous degeneration, a small particle of earthy matter being found in it, which may require removal because of its friction against the eyelids. Should both eyes be affected with leucoma, and should the opacity be exactly in front of the pupil, and so large that vision is lost, it will be right, provided that dilatation of the pupils by atropine does not improve sight, to make an artificial opening in the iris opposite some part of the cornea that is transparent. Mr. Bowman has described a case of roarty opacity, caused by the development of vascular papillse, covered with hypertrophied epithe- lium ; and relieved by shaving off the morbid growth to the level of the healthy cornea.* * Op. cit., pp. 39,122,