DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. 149 should be enlarged, so as to admit of a visual examination of the injured part. In very many instances surgical skill can avail nothing, and the surgeon has but to watch and soothe the dying man, and observe the curious physiological phenomena presented.* Treatment.—If the usual symptoms of compression are present, and depressed bone be positively detected, and there is a scalp wound, the surgeon may trephine. If, however, on the other hand, the bone is found depressed, but no symptoms of compression be present, or if there be no scalp wound, the operation should be delayed until cerebral symptoms have begun to manifest themselves. Tne operation of trephining is so fraught with danger, and experience has sliown that men will recover sometimes unexpectedly from the most severe injuries, that unless there be positive indications for its use, it should not be had resort to. If tlie scalp be wounded and the skull comminuted, and the spicula are pressing on the brani or its membi'anes, these should be imme- diately removed, without waiting for symptoms. Compression of the brain from coagula of blood after injury to the skull is of not unfrequent occurrence. In such cases trephining has been recommended; but the difficulty of diagnosing correctly the seat of the coagulum, supposing haemorrhage really to have taken place, renders the operation very unsatisfactory, and one which should be seldom resorted to. Moreover, it should be noticed that Dy. Stromeyer, who was surgeon-in-chief in the Schleswig-Holstein campaign against the Danes, in 1849, protests strongly against the use of the trephine, even in cases of depression, urging that the admission of air must exert a deleterious influence on a contused portion of brain. From the campaigns of 1849 and 1850 he possesses the notes of forty-one gun-shot fractures of the skull with depression, and of these only seven terminated fatally; thirty-lbur were cured, of whom one only had been trephined.f Balls lodging in or penetrating the skull are almost always fatal. There was no instance during the Crimean war of a man recovering * A private of the 21st regiment in the Crimea, had the whole of the ix)sterior half of the skull depressed by a round shot, yet he lived two hours. A private of the 19th regiment Uved ten days after having, as it turned out at the post mortem, a piece of the skull driven into one of the corpora striata. t In the " Consolidated Statement of Gun-shot Wounds" rendered to Surgeon General Hammond, U.S.A., by Dr. John H. Brinton and refeiTing to 20,930 cases treated during September, October, November, and December, 1862, an account is given of 35 cases of trephining performed in U.S.A. General Hospitals for September 1862, to 31st March, 1863. Of these, 30 were from gun-shot wounds,' 5 from other causes : 3 primary, 32 secondary : 5 recovered, 28 died, 2 remained under treatment. Dr. Moses, Medical Director of the Army of the Cumberland, in the simimer of 1863, in his "Surgical Notes on Gun-shot In- juries," Am. Journ. Med. Soc. April, 1864, says : " Gun-shot fractures of the arch uf the skull are almost universally fatal; and as far as my experience gues, it makes little difference whether you trephine, remove depressed bone, or let them alone. All my operations for trephining have been unsuccessful thus far in the war."