KHIKO-PLASTIC OPERATIONS. 467 CHAPTER XIV. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE FACE AND NOSE. SECTION I.—AFFECTIONS OF THE OUTER PARTS OF THE FACE, NOSE, AND LIPS. I. Salivary Fistula is said to exist when the stenonian duct has been perforated by a wound or ulcer, so that the saliva dribbles out on the cheek. Treatment.—In the first place, a good passage must be established from the duct into the mouth. This may be done by puncturing the mouth through the fistula in two places, passing a small skein of silk, or, still better, a piece of very flexible wire, through the apertures, and securing the two ends in the mouth by a knot. After a few days, when a sufficient aperture into the mouth has been established, means must be employed for closing the fistula. Its edges may be pared and brought together in a straight line, by means of needles and the twisted suture. To facilitate this, the skin may, in some cases, be dissected up, so that it may be shifted along. In some cases, the cauteiy, a small blunt one, at a black heat, may be passed round the edges, to make them contract. In cases of deep narrow fistula, Mai-hall's galvanic cautery may be used. In other cases, the aperture may be covered with a flap of skin raised from the adjoining parts. II. Hypertrophy.—The nose sometimes becomes prodigiously en- larged through an hyperti'ophy of the areolar tissue and skin, especially in persons who have been addicted to the pleasures of the table. Such tumours are very inconvenient and unsightly, but not dangerous. They grow slowly—are indolent and painless—the sebaceous follicles are much enlarged, and secrete profusely, and the skin is more or less mottled with veins. Treatment.—If the patient desire it, the tumour may be removed with the knife ; but the surgeon must first well examine his general health, and put him on regular diet. An incision may be made in the median line nearly down to the cartilage. Then an assistant distends the nostril with his forefinger, whilst the surgeon seizes the morbid growth, and shaves it clean off, close to the cartilage. After the operation, there will be considerable hsemorrhage from numerous vessels. Some of these may be tied, some may be pinched with a for- ceps, some may be secured with a very fine cambric needle and thread; and any general oozing may be restrained by the application of cold water or matico leaf, or, if it be obstinate, by plugging the nostrils, and making pressure with strips of plaster. III. Khino-plastic, or Taliacotian Operations.—When a por- tion or the whole of the nose has been destroyed by disease or accident, the deficiency may be restored by a transplantation of skin from an