SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. 297 relaxation occurring to weakly children may be cured by good diet, tonics, and friction. SECTION III.—THE CARTILAGE. I. The diseases of articular cartilage have been particularly studied by Professor Kedfern of Aberdeen, who has shown that any disturbance whatever of their nutrition by injury or disease, produces one and the sanae change in their structure ; viz., that the cartilage cells enlarge, become crowded with corpuscles by excessive proliferation, and lose their cell-wall; so that the contained corpuscles are either mingled with the intercellular tissue, or else are discharged on the surface of the cartilage, if near it. Meanwhile the intercellular or hyaline sub- stance may soften into pus, or may become fibrous.* II. The Reparation of cartilage after injury or disease is effected by the conversion of the softened intercellular substance into white fibrous tissue, and of the nuclei that have escaped from the cells into yellow fibi-es, which together form a cicatrix. III. Ulceration of cartilage consists in the progressive disintegra- tion of the softened hyaline substance, and in the bursting of the cells and discharge of their contents. The pathological importance of this morbid process has been very much diminished by the discovery that it may exist to a considerable extent, even in the knee-joints of persons accustomed to bear heavy burdens, without any symptoms whatever. The cartilage may also, whilst preserving its healthy structure, wear away gradually in old men and animals, till it leaves the bone quite bare ; the latter becoming dense, smooth, and polished,! yet with no symptoms except a slight grating. Ulceration of cartilage may occur as the result of any severe disease of the synovial membrane or of the bone. But it appears that it may exist by itself, without any disease of the otlier joint textures, and without any symptoms. It seems, therefore, that whatever grave importance may be attached to this process belongs really to the disease of bone, or of synovial membrane which accompanies it. section IV.—SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS, WHITE SWELLING, AND ARTICULAR CARIES. I. In THE Adult.—In persons of unsound constitution, any neg- lected injury or inflammation of any one of the joint structures is liable to lead to total and irreparable disorganization of the joint; in- cluding complete ulceration or destruction of the cartilage, caries of the * P. Kedfern, M.D., on Anonnal Nutrition in Articular Cartilage, Edinburgh, ] 850; and on the Healing of Wounds in Articular Cartilage, Edinburgh Monthly Journ. Med. Sciences,' Sept. 1851. One starting-point of the "cellular patho- logy." t This change is said to occur in the astragali of old draught horses, without occasioning any inconvenience to the animals. Richet, Brit, and For. Med. Rev., Jan. 1846. Mr. Queljett, quoted in Canton, op. cit. See also William Adams, op. cit.