359 VARICOSE VEINS. 6. Idiopathic Phlebitis.—This is not a very common disorder. The author has, however, treated a few cases, such as the following:— 1. A woman, sst. thirty: several superficial veins on the outer part of left thigh, swollen and tender; skin over them red; blood in some parts coagulated ; no constitutional symptoms. 2, A girl, set. nineteen: complained of severe pain in right knee. On examination, the pain was referred to the ham and upper part of the calf, which were swollen and tender; and there was tenderness and redness of the saphena, up the thigh ; the tongue loaded ; headache, thirst, and nausea. Kest, purgatives, and fomentations are the remedies for such cases; the origin of which is probably to be found in some impurity of the blood. 7. Traumatic Phlebitis.—When a vein is wounded, and the wound is not accurately closed, or when it is disturbed, so as to break up the commencing adhesions, and allow jjus or decomposing sanies to find its way into the vessel, the first effect should be, as we have just said, the coagulation of the blood. Even then, if the blood be healthy, the part be kept at rest, and the intruding liquid small in quantity and not very noxious, no greater harm need ensue than some swelling and inflamma- tion around the vein. But under more unfavourable conditions, the blood in the affected vein will coagulate widely {thrombosis) ; parts of the clot soften into purifovm fluid; the cellular tissue in the track of the vein suppurate; the skin redden; and the vein become first thick- ened from infiltration, then soltened, and broken down, so as to allow the clots contained to mix with the abscess around it. This process will be accompanied with considerable pain and fever; but not with pyaemia if the blood has coagulated firmly and widely enough. The morbid anatomy is very simple. The vein is thickened, and reddened wherever its inner surface has been in contact with clot; and it contains coagulated blood, which in the focus of the disease is decolorized, and soft- ened intopuriform fluid. Treatment.—From the foregoing details some useful practical hints may be extracted ; for instance, the expediency of the most accurate closure of all wounded veins; the great use of those old-fashioned so- called vulnerar^y balsams, such as the Friar's Balsain, or of the appli- cation of brandy, or collodion, or similar substances, to wounds, so as to seal them up from the atmosphere, and produce firm coagulation of the blood; the necessity of rest after a wound, so as not to disturb the coagula; the danger of great loss of blood, and of too low a diet (es- pecially after parturition), which might render the blood incapable of firm coagulation ; the fact that the abscesses about inflamed veins are ti'uly eliminative and salutary in their character; and the questionable utility of cold lotions, leeches, and mercury, to diminish the local in- flammation, which probably, as Mr. Lee remarks, is the means adopted by nature to prevent general infection of the blood. The remedial measures, then, are rest, warm fomentations, and poultices ; early in- cision of abscesses; evacuation of bile and faeces, by one or two doses of calomel; opium, to relieve pain, and insure quiet of mind and body; and wine, especially if there has been great loss of blood.