414 DISEASES OF THE SCLEROTIC. eye only, it is generally connected with some previous injury or disease which has spoiled the corneal tissue. Mr. Canton has pointed out that the arcus, when met with in early life, as at fifty, forty, thirty, or earlier, is often associated with fatty degeneration of the heart.* SECTION VII.—DISEASES OF THE SCLEROTIC. I. Acute Inflammation of the Sclerotic is commonly called Rheumatic Ophthalmia ; because the structure affected is similar to that which is commonly said to be attacked by rheumatism. But sclerotitis is, properly speaking, an inflammation of the sclerotic, and in some measure also of the cornea, iris, and other proper structures of the eyeball; and it ought not to be called rheumatic, unless there are pains in the joints, acid perspiration, or other evidences of the rheu- matic diathesis. Symptoms.—It is known by redness of the sclerotic,—dimness of sight, sometimes great intolerance of light, sometimes not—severe sting- ing pain of the eye, and aching of the bones around, which is greatly aggravated at night,—and fever. It may be caused by cold ; and sometimes is a sequel of gonorrhoea. It may lead to opacity of the cornea, or to iritis. Diagnosis.—This form of ophthalmia may be distinguished from in- flammation of the conjunctiva, 1st, by the character of the pain, which is a severe aching, principally felt in the eyebrow, temple, and cheek, and is greatly aggravated every evening; being excessively severe during the night, but remitting towards morning. Whereas, in con- junctivitis, the pain is of a scalding nature, and accompanied with a sensation as if sand was in the eye. 2nd]y, by the character of the redness, which is deep-seated and of a pale pink ; and by the vessels running in straight lines from the circumference of the eye towards the cornea; whereas in conjunctivitis the redness is scarlet and superficial, and more vivid; the vessels are tortuous, and freely anastomose, and can be moved about with the finger. Treatment.—In severe cases, it is commonly said to be necessary to bleed generally or locally; at all events, to purge, and administer mer- cury with opium till the gums begin to suffer. But Mr. Taylor says, that he has seen severe cases treated by bleeding, leeching, and mercury, and that all have been made worse. The plan which he has found rather successful, is to give bark and iodide of potassium, with mercury in small doses or with tincture of colchicum at bed-time ; and he says that blisters to the temple or eyebrow are sometimes useful. The pain may be relieved by friction of the forehead every afternoon, vv^ith extract of belladonna dissolved in warm laudanum (3j. ad ^j.), or F, 149, —warm pediluvia or warm bath,—and Dover's powder at bedtime. When decidedly intermittent, and out of all proportion to vascularity, it may be relieved by five grains of quinine every four hours till the * Lancet, Jan. 11,1851.