518 FRACTURES OF THE OS HYOIDES, ETC, In a case which occurred to Professor Ehrman, the patient, a healthy- woman, set. 33, had lost her voice for three years ; when she began to experience a sensation as of the opening and shutting of a valve in the larynx ; violent cough came on occasionally during swallowing, and caused expectoration of small portions of tissue. She was suddenly seized with a fit of suffocation, almost fatal, when Professor Ehrman performed tracheotomy, and the next day extended the incision up- wards, through the junction of the alse of the thyroid cartilage, and removed a cauliflower excrescence from the left vocal cord. Recovery was complete, except of the voice. Seven months afterwards the patient unfortunately died of typhoid fever. The tumour was epithe- lioma, and had just begun to sprout again when the patient died. In another case. Dr. Brauers, of Louvain, laid open the larynx and cau- terized a warty excrescence with acid nitrate of mercury and actual cautery. Final result not stated. The laryngoscope, however, enables the practitioner to detect the presence of tumours, whether attached to the epiglottis, to vocal cords, true or false, or any neighbouring part; and in many instances to re- move them. This will be the easier if pendulous and having a narrow neck, for then they may be snared and cut off with an e'craseur; the same in principle as Sir W. R. Wilde's snare for polypi of the ear. Dr. Moura Bourdillon has devised a clever ecraseur, with which he perforates the tumour, and holds it fast whilst it is being cut off, so that it shall not fall into the trachea, although, if it should, it will, says Dr. Gibb, be readily expectorated. The honour of first having removed a laryngeal tumour belongs to Dr. Walker, of Peterborough, who performed the operation on 18th August, 1861. Dr. Gibb fol- lowed, in November, 1862. If the tumour have a broad base, and cannot be snared, it may be gradually destroyed by touches with soUd nitrate of silver. Lastly, it may be observed that the operation of true laryngotomy, i. e., division of the alse of the thyroid at the middle line, may be prac- tised in any case where it shall be judged expedient; and may be com- bined into a transverse incision for turning back one of those alse, so as to submit the affected parts to direct treatment. V. Fractures of the Os Hyoides or of the Thyroid Car- tilage are rare accidents, which may be produced by blows or falls on the front of the throat. The symptoms are pain; displacement of the fragments, ascertained by examination; difficulty of swallowing or of breathing; and perhaps hsemorrhage from the mucous membrane, which may be lacerated; perhaps emphysema. The treatment must depend on the urgency of the case. In a case of perpendicular fracture of the thyroid cartilage, seen by Dr. Gibb, the two lateral portions of the cartilage were separated at the pomum Adami; but the only symp- toms were loss of voice, and an "indescribable sensation" in the throat.* In a case of fracture of the hyoid bone, the mouth was * The author has to thank Dr. Gibb for the following references :—Dr. Gibb's case, Brit. Amer. Med. Joum., Montreal, vol. vi., p. 306; Cases of Fracture of