PREFACE. vi to be recognized as belonging to the class of phenomena called " reflex paralysis," which are but beginning to be definitely studied. In the chapter on Delirium Traumaticum I ought to have laid more stress on the value of the most stimulating kinds of nourishment, such as are described in Formula 196 in the Appendix. Of Tetanus there is little new to be said, except the hope that persevering experiments, like those of Haughton, may in time point out a specific. In the Second Part, treating of the Elementary Processes of Disease and Repair, and of that which is often, though wrongly, considered the scientific basis of practical medicine and surgery, considerable changes have been wrought. During the years 1834-1840 in which I attended medical schools, the great modern microscopic researches into the structure and development and changes of tissues, whether in the embryo, or in growth, or in disease, were but begin- ning to be known to professors. At that time the pathological doctrines dominant amongst the great body of practitioners' who bad taken their tone from the teaching of an earlier generation, were dynamic; that is, they related to actions, forces, dispositions, and sympathies, supposed to exist in the animal body, with very little heed to quantities or to com- position. During those years the Scottish school, represented by Cullen and John Hunter, still held its pernicious sway over' medical teaching and practice. Because the guesses of the ancient humoral pathology were fanciful (how could they have been otherwise when chemistry was unknown ?), and because the chemistry of his time was too imperfect to show the changes of the blood in disease, Cullen contemptuously rejected all study of the composition of the animal body as worthless, and set to work to speculate on its actions. Hunter's system also was based on abstract ideas of action and power, irrespective of the quantity or composition of that which acted. Strangely blind to the fact that many actions must go on in the egg ere blood and blood-vessels are formed, physiologists of that day ignored the inherent forces of the tissues, and ascribed all secretion and growth, and all organic disease, to the '^action of the blood-vessels ;" whilst the absorbents " were supposed to be ever on the watch with open mouths to devour all that was waste or superfluous, and so were considered to give the body its just proportions in health, and to cause wasting and ulcera- tion in disease. Well do I remember the apologetic manner in which, in the first edition of this book, I ventured to say of pus,, not only that it was formed " by a real process of secre-