4G6 DEAFNESS. (having before taken water into his mouth for the purpose), and during the act the surgeon squeezes the bottle, so forcing the air into the nasal cavity. Thus the Eustachian tube being opened, and the nasal cavity cut off from the pharynx, at the same time that the air is pressed in, it passes into the tympanum, overcoming, in the great majority of cases, any obstruction that may exist. This procedure carefully per- formed is very suitable to many of the cases of thickening of the mu- cous membrane of the throat which are so frequent, especially in children. IX. Functional Nervous Deapness.—Deafness is said to be nervous, when it depends on general torpor and debility, and is better at some times than at others, especially in fine weather, and when the patient is cheerful or excited, and the stomach in good order, and when there is an entire absence of all symptoms or vestiges of inflammation. But such a form of deafness is rare; and Mr. Toynbee has shown, that even in very old persons, in whom it is often supposed to be common, the usual cause of deafness is not defect in the nervous apparatus, but thickening, adhesions, and other effects of inflammation of the tym- panal cavity. Treatment.—Aperients, with diffusible stimulants, especially ammo- nia, arnica, and valerian ; stimulating gargles, masticatories of pelli- tory, &c. If the meatus is dry, and altogether deficient in cerumen, great benefit may be derived from the introduction of a few drops of fish-oil, or of ox-gall, into the meatus, and the application of mustard, and other counter-irritants behind the ear. Electricity may be mis- chievous. X. Organic Nervous Deafness.—Deafness may be caused by blows on the head, or fracture, which produces either concussion or rupture of the auditory nerve. Depletion, if any inflammatory symp- toms are present, with alteratives and counter-irritants afterwards, are the only remedies. Deafness may also be produced by organic alterations in the brain, and may be attended with epilepsy or idiocy, or may be a consequence of apoplexy or convulsions. The treatment must be the same as for amaurosis arising from similar causes (p. 445).* * Copland, Diet,, art., Ear; Pilcher on the Structure and Diseases of the Ear, Lond., J 838; Essay on the Ear, by Joseph Williams, M.D., Lend,, 1840 ; Harvey on Deafness and Enlargement of the Tonsils, Lond., 1850; Toynbee, in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxiv.; Med. Gaz., 7th July, 1843; on Senile Deafness, Edin. Monthly Journ. of Med. Sc., Feb. 1849 ; On an Artificial Membrana Tympani, Lond. 1853 ; On the Diseases of the Ear, 1860 ; Yearsley on the Application of Cotton, &c.. Lancet for 1848, vol. ii., pp. 10, 64, &c.; Sir W. R. Wilde, Practical Obs. on Aural Surgery, Lond., 1853; Hinton, Diseases of the Ear, in Holmes' System of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 134.