540 OVARIOTOMY. the abdominal muscles in action, and noticing whether they rise much from the surface of the tumour. Thus, if the patient whilst lying on her back be told to raise herself up in her bed without using her arms, the recti muscles will start up into a prominent band, if their sheath is not bound down by adhesions on its peritonseal surface, but not if it is, unless the adhesions are long, or the cyst flaccid. By observing also, as Dr. Sibson suggests, whether the tumour descends during inspira- tion ; and by grasping and endeavouring to slide the abdominal parietes over the tumour, or to grasp them and lift them from the tumour, much valuable information will be derived; but the decisive test is a short in- cision, and exploration with the finger. The reasons for running the risk will be much the strongest in the case of a young healthy person, whose life, if spared, might be long and valuable. The operation comprises the following steps. The patient ought to have the bowels and bladder empty, and to have taken food three hours previously. The temperature of the ; operation room should be raised to a degree comfortable to the patient; but the high tem- peratures and moist vapour of the earlier operators are no longer adopted. The patient's position should be easy, and chloro- form should be administered. The most happy method of operating, supposing that the circumstances admit of it, is, to make a short incision, say from four to six inches, between the umbilicus and the pubes, along the linea alba, through the periton£eum. Next, to puncture the cyst, and empty it; and for this purpose to employ the large trocar with hooked canula, devised by Mr. Spencer Wells for rapidly emptying the cyst, seizing it, and withdrawing it without allow- ing any of the fluid to escape into the peri- toneal cavity. In the next place, to separate the tumour from its pedicle, and secure the divided tissues, so that there shall be no in- ternal bleeding, which is one great source of danger after the operation. At the same time it is one of the greatest modern im- provements that the divided pedicle shall not be put back within the abdomen, where it may possibly bleed, and certainly suppurate before the ligatures separate; whilst the ligatures themselves keep the wound open, and