THE LARYNGOSCOPE. 507 been performed for the purpose of conveying food into the stomach in cases of stricture of the oesophagus, but with no very satisfactory results.* X. Use of the Stomach-pump.—The tube of this instrument is to be introduced in the same manner as the cesophagus bougie. It is usual to place a gag in the patient's mouth, having a hole for the tube to .pass through, in order that it may not be compressed by the teeth. Before pumping out the contents of the stomach, one or two pints of water should be injected into it, and care should be taken not to with- draw quite as much as was injected. More water should then be thrown in, and the process should be repeated till it returns colourless. The stomach-pump ought only to be employed in those cases of poisoning by opiimi, of alcohol, or other narcotics, in which the ner- vous system is rendered so insensible that vomiting cannot be excited. For, in the first place, the operation is not fi ee from danger. It is a well-established f^ict, that a tube may sometimes be passed into the trachea of a sensible person without creatmg any peculiar sensation, or exciting cough; but if the patient be insensible, that accident will be much more liable to happen. In fact, a case is on record in which a ' meddling surgeon, with more zeal than knowledge, did actually pass the tube down the trachea and inject the lungs with chalk mixture, which he had far better have permitted his luckless patient to have swallowed quietly; and Sir C. Bell tells us, that he has seen, on dis- section, both lungs filled with broth, which was intended to have been injected into the stomach. Again, it is known that in one case the mucous membrane of the stomach was sucked into the holes of the tubes, and torn into strips—a thing likely to happen if the stomach is pumped too empty. Besides, this artificial evacuation of the stomach is by no means so efficacious as free vomiting, assisted by plenty of diluents. Lumps of arsenic were left in the stomach in the very case just cited, in which the mucous membrane was torn.f section nr.—the laryngoscope. I. The Laryngoscope is a small mirror by which we can see the inside of the larynx. It was invented by Dr. B. G. Babington in 1829, but, like many other inventions, lay dormant for thirty years ; for altliough it was noticed and used occasionally by Trousseau, Liston, and the late talented Mr. Avery; and although it was used to demonstrate the mechanism of the voice by Garcia in 1855, who was the first to obtain a view of his own larnyx, still it was only brought into vogue by Tiirck of Vienna in 1857, and Czermak of Prague in 1858. To the exertions of these gentlemen is due the present general * See Arnott on OSsophagotomy, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx.; lieport of a case in which it was performed unsuccessfully for the relief of stricture by Mr. Watson, of New York, and of two cases in which it was performed for the removal of a foreign body, in vols. ii. and iii. of Ranking's Abstract. f See an amusing Clinical liCcture on the abuse of the Stomach-pump, by Professor Watson, in Lond. Med. Gaz., vol. xvii.; and Roupell's Illustrations of the Efifects of Poisons.