718 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. soda water, or an aperient, may be administered. The patient, if chilly, should be wrapped up warmly. When the patient is an adult, and particularly if old, the chloroform may not be entirely eliminated for some hours, and may occasion nausea and giddiness, and haunt the patient disagreeably with its smell and taste. Abstinence from food be- forehand will diminish, but will not infallibly prevent vomiting in all persons : since this is either an eliminatory act, for the purpose of puri- fying tlie blood, like the vomiting on the day after a debauch, or else, like sea-sickness, the result of bi ain disturbance. Death from Chloroform.—That a remedy so powerful should be capable of extinguishing life, follows as a matter of course from the details which we have given. The manner in which life is extinguished, and which has been the subject of controversy, is not always the same in different cases. In the first place, chloroform mavkill by apnoea, or suffocation; by interfering with the passage of the blood through the lungs ; by giving the blood such a quality that the pulmonary capillaries refuse a passage ±0 it; or by acting upon the medulla oblongata in such a way as to stop the reflex act of inspiration. This mode of death seems to occur often in the case of animals poisoned experimentally; sometimes in man. Possibly spasm of the glottis may be produced by a concentrated vapour. In such a case, the symptoms would be those of " congestion of the head and face, staring eyes, turgid veins, struggling or convul- sive spasms, ineffectual efforts to expand the chest," preceded by a sense of choking, and irresistible propensity to struggle against further inha- lation. After death, congestion of the lungs, and fulness of the D'ight side of the heart would be found.* There is a capital experiment recorded by Dr. Chapman,f in which the heart of a cat poisoned by chloroform, full and motionless, was set beating by the loss of blood which ensued fi om division of the aorta and pulmonary artery, and beat for an hour and a half. Hence it is evident that this heart was stopped because overloaded, and unable to force the blood through the lungs: not paralysed intrinsically. Eut, secondly, there can be no doubt, that chloroform usually kills man by syncope or angina, that is, paralysis of the heart. And the order of phenomena is usually this :—-The patient all at once raises his body and struggles, the face is noticed to be deadly pale and the limbs relaxed, blood ceases to flow from cut artei ies, no pulse is felt at the wrist, the heart cannot be felt to beat, the breathing continues slowly and gaspingly for half a minute or more, then all is over. Of deaths belonging to this category, no better example can be given than the following:—A gentleman, aged 73, with intermitting pulse, and arcus in each eye, had been chloroformed six or eight times for the puipose of undergoing lithotrity. On Dec, 4, 1851, he was again chloroformed; during the operation he exhibited considei able faintness, though he recovered himself before it was over. A few minutes after * We quote almost verbatim from Dr. Black's very able pamphlet, f How Chloroform Kills, Med. Times, 18th Oct, 1850.