675 SYPHILOPHOBIA. to be impotent, or to have spermatorrhoea ;* or perhaps to be labouring under secondary syphilis—a state designated Syphilophohia. These cases require very skilful and kind treatment. The malady is in reality mental; caused often by the struggle between natural passion and religious sentiment, and aggravated usually by some disorder of bodily health, such as oxaluria, or other form of poisoned blood. If the surgeon foolishly makes light of the case, or if he still more foolishly tries to argue the patient out of his malady, the patient immediately flies to the advertising quacks, to the great detriment of mind, body, and estate. The proper course to pursue is, to improve the general health. The writer has cured many an inveterate case of imagined impotence or syphilis by a few grain doses of calomel, followed by combinations of quinine with Epsom salts, and afterwards steel oi- zinc. Retention of the testes in the abdomen is considered by some as a cause of impotence, although in many instances, when the gland is held in the iliac fossa by extensive adhesions, atrophy follows, yet it has often been found perfectly plump and healthy. The nearer it is to the scrotum, the more likely it is to be active, especially if protected from injury by a proper apparatus (see p. 370). Lastly, impotence may be produced by premature and excessive venery, or by the practice of self-pollution. Such cases not un- frequently come under the observation of the London practitioner. The sexual .organs have been rendered so weak and irritable, that the least excitement from a lascivious idea or from the mere friction of the clothes, brings on an imperfect erection, followed immediately by the discharge of a thin fluid. The erection is so imperfect, and followed so soon by the discharge, that the patient is incompetent for sexual con- nexion ; and the frequent and abundant losses of seminal fluid (whence the term spermatorrhoea is given to this malady), together with the patient's consciousness of his own imperfection, brings on a most mise- rable state of bodily weakness and mental despondency. General tonics, and cold-shower-bathing, will do something to relieve this state; but the most essential thing is, the observance of perfect chastity of idea, so that all excitement may be avoided. It may be supposed that the prostatic portion of the urethra, in these cases, is preternaturally irri- table ; and this condition of the parts at the orifice of the seminal ducts may tend greatly to keep up the excessive secretion, and to promote the action by which it is expelled. It is a very important indication, therefore, to lessen this sensitiveness, and so interrupt the chain of morbid phenomena. The author has found great benefit from the use of enemata of cold water at bedtime; cold or tepid salt hip-baths; F. 179, 181, and opiate suppositories. He has seen cases in which a preternatural * The patient should be instructed that a periodic discharge of seminal fluid, at intervals of three weeks or a month, is as natural a phenomenon as ovulation and menstruation in the female. Of course, if frequent or excessive, it is weak- ening ; but it is readily brought within limits by treatment.