598 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. on a chaii' and lean over the back of it, or lying on his side close to the edge of the bed, and the nates being kept asunder by an assistant, the surgeon introduces his left forefinger into the anus, and at the sanae time explores with a probe the whole extent and ramifications of the fistula. If it is of the blind internal kind, its situation must be ascer-- tained, and a puncture be made into it by the side of the anus. Perhaps a pi-obe bent at an acute angle may be passed into it from the bowel, and serve as a guide for the puncture. Then, one forefinger being still in the anus, the surgeon passes a strong curved probe-pointed bistoury up to the further end of the fistula. Next (if the internal opening cannot be found) he pushes it through the coats of the bowel, so that its point may come in contact with his forefinger. Then he puts the end of his forefinger on the point of the bistoury, and draws it down out of the anus ; and as soon as it is fairly emerged, he pushes the handle towards the orifice of the fistula, so as to divide skin, sphincter, and bowel at one sweep. Sir B. Brodie recommends that the bistoury should always be passed through the internal opening of the fistula, and says that the affection will very likely j-eturn if this is not divided; he also condemns the piactice of cutting through the bowel higher up than this opening; but all ramifications and buri'owings of the fistula under the skin should be slit up. A little flake of cotton is then to be placed in the wound, and the patient to be kept in bed for three days. The subsequent treatment consists in the use of perfect cleanliness, and the daily introduction of a little flake of cotton (which may be dipped in some stimulating lotion if necessary) between the edges of the wound for the first few days, so as to prevent its edges from uniting, and to cause it to granulate from the bottom. If haemorrhage prove violent, after this operation, and does not yield to the application of cold or a bit of matico leaf, the anus must be well dilated with a speculum, so as to expose the bleeding surface to the air, and any artery discernible may be tied ; or else it may be firmly plugged with lint, which is to be secured by a T bandage. If the patient will not submit to this operation, or if he is labouring under disease of the lungs or liver or kidneys, in an advanced stage, so that it would be unsafe, the treatment must be palli(ntive merely.: The confect. piperis, or copaiba and tonics, may be administered inter- nally, and stimulating injections and ointments be applied to the fistula.: Luke's operation of cutting the fistula by ligature may be adopted by: any one who is fond of variety, or whose patient fears the cold knife. XII. Prolapsus Ani consists in an eversion of the lower portion of the rectum, and its protrusion through the anus. It is not merely that a fold of the mucous membrane protrudes; but that the mus- cular coat, and whole thickness of the bowel come down. This affec- tion is most common in infancy and old age. It may depend on a natural laxity and delicacy of structure, or be caused by violent strain- ing, in consequence of costiveness, or of the existence of piles, or stone, or stricture. , Treatment.—Whenever the protrusion occurs, the parts should be