587 DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA. intestine was strangulated in this opening, the patient complained of great pain down the leg in the course of the obturator nerve. This might be an aid in the diagnosis. In a case in which Mr. Hilton laid open the abdominal cavity, and disengaged a knuckle of intestine from the obturator foramen, there were no symptoms that indicated the kind of obstruction met w^ith.* In a case successfully operated upon by Mr. Obr6 there were symptoms of strangulation, and a slight degree of fulness in the triangular space at the upper part of the right thigh compared with the left; and a distinct hardness in the neighbourhood of the femoral artery behind the saphenous opening. Mr. Obr^ made a straight incision, as in the operation of tying the common femoral artery, beginning three inches below Poupart's ligament, hoping to find intestine low in the crural canal. When the cribriform fascia was opened, and the saphenous opening exposed, no hernial sac was found, but a hard something could be felt lying deep on the inside of this opening. The dissection was continued downwards : the fascia lata divided ; the pectinseus exposed and divided transversely for about an inch and a half, when a hernial sac was exposed, which rose up into the wound to the size of a pigeon's egg. The finger was passed into the obturator opening; the sac opened, and found to contain small intestine; the edge of the aperture slightly divided, (in doing which the saphenic vein was wounded, and was tied,) the intestine was returned, and the patient did well. VII. IscHiATic Hernia protrudes through the sciatic notch. This and the preceding are exceedingly rare ; and the tumours are of neces- sity small. If discovered to exist during life, they must be returned and supported by proper apparatus-—and if strangulated, the stricture must be divided by operation. VIII. Diaphragmatic Hernia is generally a result of congenital deficiency, or accidental separation of the fibres of the diaphragm. But it may also be caused by violent falls on the abdomen, or by violent pressure of any kind, capable of lacerating the diaphragm, and driving some of |the bowels into the thorax.f It may also be a consequence of gunshot or lance wounds. This form of hernia, if strangulated, will produce the ordinary symptoms—vomiting, constipation, and pain; and the distinction from the symptoms of ileus or intussusception—or from those produced when a fold of bowel is entangled in a rent in the omentum, or mesentery; or when the bowel is constricted by mem- branous bands resulting from previous inflammation of the peritonaeum, will be very difficult, if possible. In a case recorded by Dr. Copeman, of Norwich, the patient had umbilical hernia, which was quite free from strangulation, but a portion of the stomach and omentum had escaped, through a rent in the diaphragm, into the left pleural cavity. * This case, like most others, was unfortunately operated upon too late. The obstruction existed from the 20th January to the 1st February. Hilton, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi., p. 323 ; Obre, Banking, vol. xiv.: Keport of cases In Lancet, for 1851, vol. i., p. 512 ; Wilkins, Lancet, 1853, vol. i. t Reid on Diaphragmatic Hernia, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. and July, 1840; Copeman, Prov. Med. Journ., 1855.