EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 805 at its ends, or a straight cut across, close below the patella, dividing the lateral and anterior ligaments. The next point is to raise the flap, including the patella, bend the joint, sever the lateral ligaments, very cautiously lay bare the popliteal surface of the femur, and cut off the articular surface. Here Butcher's saw will be useful, cutting from behind forwards. The cut should be parallel with the natural surface of the condyles, and all obliquity should be avoided, so that the sawn surfaces of bone may rest flat and evenly against one another. Then any carious spots must be gouged out, or, if need be, another slice removed; and now, too, the surgeon may convert his operation into an amputation if the state of the bone seem irreparable. The tibia is then treated likewise. The patella, if healthy, may have its cartilage pared off: if ulcerated a little, the diseased surface may be cut out: if thoroughly soft and strumous, or even if doubtful, it should be removed. Perhaps it is the best plan always to do so. Then all diseased synovial membrane, and all thickened and infiltrated areolar tissue, should be trimmed off, so that the tissues which remain, both hard and soft, may be as healthy as possible. This is one of the points on which success depends. The next thing is to tie vessels and remove clots. Mr. Hutchinson recommends that an opening should always be made to the outer side of the vessels through the skin covering the popliteal space, to act as a drain to the suppuration which generally pockets in the popliteal cavity after this operation. The surgeon may then bring the limb into a straight position ; which is to be accomplished by extension, under chloroform, from the foot, whilst the thigh is held steadily; and as this may be a matter of some difficulty, it may, as Mr. Butcher observes, be facilitated by division of the biceps and other ham-string tendons. This will insure greater freedom from displacement and spasmodic jerking. The cut surfaces of bone should be accurately adapted to each other and here Mr. Butcher gives the caution to let no soft tissue be allowed to intrude be- tween them. The edges of the flaps are brought together with sutures, and covered with lint or cotton. In the next place the limb must be put up ; and it is upon the de- tails of this, and of the after-treatment, that the patient's safety will mainly depend. The wounded surfaces of bone must be in apposition, and at absolute rest; all possibility must be excluded of their slipping, starting, grating, jerking, or grinding against each other, or of the femur projecting. If they do, the exudation of repair must of necessity be destroyed and decomposed ; and fetid suppuration, and possibly purulent absorption, or caries, will result. It is universally agreed that the limb should be put up on the ope- rating table before removal to bed. The leg should be nicely bandaged, and the hollows above the ankle padded. The engraving will show the solid look of a limb, after this operation, done up in the box employed by Mr. Butcher. It is well padded with horsehair; the sides can be