ALBUMINOUS URINE. 633 1. Blood is very frequently found in the ui'ine, rendering it dark and smoky if the quantity is but small, but betraying itself by red clots if the quantity is large. The blood-cells may be detected by the micro- scope, and the serum by the test to be presently mentioned. If it proceed from the secreting portion of the kidney, it will most likely be in small quantity, and uniformly diffused through the urine; and fibrinous moulds of the kidney tubules will be found in the sediment, and may be detected by the microscope. If the blood comes from the pelvis of the kidney, it may be in larger quantity, and there may be worm-like clots moulded in the ureters. (See Hse,maturia^ p. 637.) 2. Serum, without red particles (albmnimiria), is very frequently mixed with the urine; when the kidneys are affected with any of those forms of degeneration or chronic inflammation known by the collective term Bright's disease ; or when, without original disease in themselves, they are exceedingly congested from pregnancy, disease of the heart, or any other cause. It is not at all unfrequent in the urine of children at the commencement of the exanthemata, or, properly speaking, in most acute diseases. Serum may be detected by the discoveiy of its albumen, the presence of which causes serous urine to be commonly known as albuminous urine. To detect albumen, heat a small quantity of filtered urine to the boiling point, in a test-tube over a spirit lamp; when the albumen will coagulate, and, according to its quantity, may either produce a mere opacity, or may even solidify the entire specimen heated. If the urine * Small globules; blood, nuclei, small epithelial cells, and spherules of oxalate of lime. 2. Pus. 3. Epithelium from the bladder; the typical form, a long oval, pointed at each extremity, with central nucleus; the younger cells spherical and pellucid; the older ones flattened, often full of granules or oil. 4. Small casts from the kidney, consisting of fibrinous matter entangling few epithelial cells; two of these cells distinct. 5. Triple phosphate.