MORTIFICATION. 83 Another division is into constitutional and local. By constitutional mortification is meant that which primarily originates in constitutional disorder. By local mortification is understood that which has ori- ginated in local injury, and by which the system is not implicated, and with which it does not sympathise in a violent or dangerous degree.* Symptoms.—The symptoms of mortification in general are, that the part becomes dusky red, then livid or blue, or greenish ; it loses its sensibility, and no longer feels the point of a needle ; blisters form on the surface, containing bloody serum, which exudes as it does from a dead body. If the gangrene proceed to sphacelus, the part may become dirty brown or black ; if moist, it will decompose and stink; and will often swell largely, and crepitate on pressure from gases evolved by putrefaction in its interstices. Causes and chief forms.—We may begin with the traumatic, which include all the varieties of injury which either kill parts out- right, or injure them so that they cannot go through the processes of exudation necessary for their repaii", such as severe bruises, long- continued pressure, as of a child's head upon the bladder in hard labour, or^of a patient's motionless body upon a hard bed;—wounds especially torn and bruised, compound and complicated fractures, gunshot wounds, railway smashes, and others which cause great infiltration of blood into the tissues. Strangulations, as in incarcerated hernia, or when a portion of bowel is twisted on its axis, or embraced by another portion, or when a bandage or fracture apparatus is put on a limb too tightly. Strangulation may be complete and summary, or imperfect, and cause slow death by stagnation of venous blood. Irritants, i.e., all substances incompatible with the health and quiet of tissues; such as extreme heat, cold, dry or moist; all sorts of irritant poisons, and caustics, &c,; some septic or putrescent liquids, as those of charbon, and carbuncle, and some sorts of syphilitic poison. The injection of uritant liquids into the areolar tissue, as when a zinc lotion, intended for a hydrocele, is injected into the scrotum, or when urine escapes from the bladder. But of all traumatic causes of mortification, few exceed interference with the main artery and vein of a limb, especially of the artery; whether it be a wound that has severed it, or an operation in conse- quence of disease. If from punctured wound or rupture of an artery, there be much infiltration of blood, gangrene is the more likely to happen. Obstruction of a chief vein is not so dangerous. Division of sensitive nerves has some influence. Disease of ai'teries, atheroma, and bony deposit, and embolism, that is, obstruction by clots, are like- wise causes, especially of senile gangi;ene. Amongst constitutional causes, 'aie debility, privation, exposure, unwholesome food, scurvy, and other blood diseases. Sir B. Brodie knew a man whose feet mortified after he had been profusely bled. The * Thompson's Lectures on Inflammation ; Guthrie, G. J„ F.R.S., A Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds, p. IIB, 3id ed. Lend. 1»27; Case of Spontaneous Gan- grene, by Dr. Fuller, Med. Gaz. N.S. vol. v. p. 244.