PREFACE. xiv the Eye lias been revised by my accomplished friend, Mr. E. Taylor, who has added an account of the modern treatment of Glaucoma by Iridectomy. jS'o sign of improvement is more striking than the methods of exploring internal organs and cavities by eyesight, which have been applied to eye, ear, uterus, rectum, and larynx within this generation, and by which a precision of diagnosis as to material conditions is substituted for the con- ceptions of our predecessors. Truly, medicine is not only changing, but growing; and I look with satisfaction on its future. As civilization and wealth advance, the public will give increased employment to men of education and general professional acquirements, who devote their attention to the exploration of the physical condition of any important organ. How many a patient in the last generation would have been spared the leechings, blisterings, issues, salivation, alteratives, &c. &c., if the real physical condition of eye or larynx could have been accurately demonstrated. The chapter on the Ear owes much to the revision of my friend Mr. Hinton. Tooth- ache may seem a triviality to those who have never felt it; but in writing the account of it at p. 493, in which I described, as well as I could, what had been done to myself by my friend Mr. Tomes, I wish I could have adequately conveyed to my readers the grateful sense I entertain of the benefits derivable from modern dentistry in scientific hands. That common and dangerous infirmity, Hernia, has been more fully treated of, especially as regards the new and ingenioas measures for effecting a radical cure, which were introduced into England by Mr. Spencer Wells, and have been elaborated by Mr. Wood. The account of ovariotomy, and the statistics thereof, have been brought down to the present period. Here I fear that I must, amongst other vices of the human mind incident to professors of medicine, caution the student against that mental state, compounded of indolence, narrowness, and self-esteem which leads men whose minds refuse to receive new impres- sions, to feel irritated at the innovations of more active men. The laudatio tem;poris acti may be the infirmity of a generous mind: the desire to rest satisfied with one's own knowledge, and to repress all who would go further, is intolerable mean- ness and selfishness. We all must go on learning till we die. The sections devoted to the urinary organs, and especially to lithotrity, have been revised and enlarged, though I must confess that the last-named subject is still very meagrely treated. General principles are easily given, but it is impos-