781 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. * Teale's amputation of leg. this stage of the operation is represented in the figure below ; and then the posterior flap is cut. The surgeon must take care not to get his knife between the two bones. When the operation is performed high up, the popliteal artery will be divided instead of the two tibials. The tibia, however, should never be sawn higher than the tuberosity, or the joint will be laid open. The fleshy mass of the gastrocnemius may require to be cut out, to make the flap thinner. If low down, the tendo Achillis will require to be shortened after the flap is made. The flap is to be brought forwards, and confined by a stitch or two, the line of junction being horizontal. 4. Circular Method.—The artery being under command, as in amputations of the thigh, and the leg being placed horizontally, one assistant supporting it at the ankle, and another holding it at the knee and drawing up the skin, the surgeon makes a circular incision through the skin, four inches below the tuberosity of the tibia. The integuments are next to be dissected up for two inches, and turned back; and the muscles are to be divided down to the bone by a second circular in- cision. Then a long slender double-edged knife, called a cathne, is passed between the bones to divide the interosseous ligament and muscles, and both bones are sawn through together, the flesh being protected by a retractor, which should have three tails. The spine of the tibia, if it projects much, may be removed with a fine saw or bone nippers, and care should be taken not to leave the fibula longer than the tibia, or it will give much trouble. The anterior and posterior tibial and peronaeal arteries, and any others requiring it, being tied, the stump is to be treated as directed after amputation of the thigh. The integuments should be put together transversely. 5. Teak's Operation.—The length and breadth of the anterior flap are to be determined and marked out as before described, p. 776. The two lateral incisions are first made through the skin; and the transverse one down to the bone ; then the long flap is dissected up, and with it, all the tissues in front of the bones and iirterosseous membrane ; includ-