683 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. guier, Elephantiasis. The external female genitals are liable to various kinds of enlargements and of ulceration, whose nature and alliances require even yet to be further studied. 1. There is the superficial lupus (p. 80), affecting the young and scrofulous ; puffy congestive swelling, and infiltration of the skin in soft tubercles ; ulcer- ating in one direction, healing in another. 2. The corroding ulcer, or esthiomene perforant (p. 81), a deep glassy ulcer; base slightly infil- trated, burrowing up by side of vagina; distinguished from pure syphi- litic ulcers by its rebellion to anti-syphilitic treatment, and by its not being followed by syphilitic symptoms. 3. Elephantiasis; enlarge- ment of the labia and other external parts (well described by Egan) ; rendering them a huge, warty, fissured, and most cumbrous mass; consisting in great hypertrophy of the fibrous dermis, in infiltration of fibro-plastic matter, and, as the author believes, sometimes superadded epithelioma. 4. A combination of corroding ulceration, with hyper- trophy in various forms ; thickened cutis, warty excrescences, and soft tubercles. Of these various instances of disease, many owe their origin to the combined forces of filth, gonorrhoea, syphilis, and scrofula or some other kind of cachexia. The treatment must consist of, 1, clean- liness and astringents ; 2, anti-scrofulous, or anti-syphilitic remedies, according to circumstances; 3, these failing, excision of the diseased parts ; either at one coup, or at several, according to their extent; and the destruction of corroding ulcers by the actual or some other efficient cautery.* CHAPTER XXIIT. DISEASES OF THE BREAST. I. Hypertrophy of the breasts to an enormous size is very common during the earlier months of pregnancy in plethoric women. Aperients will assist time in effecting a perfect cure. In unmarried women the same thing sometimes happens ; ihe breasts becoming so large as to be a perfect'burden. If there are any remedies they are the preparations of iodine, and the various means for insuring the healthy action of the womb. II. Boys and Girls about the age of puberty are subject to slight swelling and tenderness of the breast, which soon disappears of itself if not interfered with. III. Lacteal Tumour.—Sometimes a lacteal duct becomes oblite- rated, and the milk accumulates in it, forming an oblong fluctuating tumour near the nipple. If this is punctured, milk will continue to be * See Egnn on Syphilis, p. 146; Huguier sur rEsthiomene; Mem. de I'Acad. de Med., 1849 ; Lebert, Hannover, Paget, op. cit. Compare Elephantiasis Scroti, p. 664.