ON VENEEEAL DISEASES. 2iG ness of cicatrix and glands, or the secondary symptoms have vanished or are vanishing;— or, in other words, so long as the symptoms, general or local, continue. Generally speaking, three to lour or five weeks is long enough. See eretUismus, p. 217. If the internal administration be preferred, five grains of blue pill should be given every night and morning, and if no elFect on the mouth is produced by the sixth day, the dose at night should be doubled. Calomel in dose of a grain night and morning, with half a grain of opium takes effect very quickly. The prot.-iodide in dose of one grain at bed-time, or gr. \ four times a day, is the favourite remedy of Ricord. The strong mercurial ointment is not so likely to disorder the bowels as the blue pill, but it is more troublesome, and is now almost an obso- lete remedy. The dose is from 5SS.—3),; to be rubbed in daily upon the inside of the thighs or arms till it disappears. The morning is the best time for doing it, as the skin is then softer. It should be rubbed on different limbs successively, the patient wearing the same drawers both by day and night. If the skin becomes irritated, it should be well washed and bathed. If the patient cannot rub in the ointment him- self, it must be performed by a servant whose hands should be pro- tected by a pig's bladder, well softened in oil and tied round his wrist. The ill effects of Mercurv depend, first, on its tendency to localize itself, or to seek peculiar outlets for elimination ; and, secondly, 001 its tendency to destroy or impoverish the blood constituents. To the former category belong: 1. Irritation of the bowels, with dysenteric symptoms, straining and tenesmus. To be treated by opium with clialk mixture ; hip-bath, and opiate enema, F. 101; omitting the mercuiy for a few days, and combining it afterwards with opium; and using double precaution against cold and damp. 2. Sore throat.—Redness of the whole fauces, and ulceration of the tonsils with fever. In this case the mercury must be discontinued for the present, 3. Violent salivation.—This may be caused by a too liberal use ot the remedy, or by a sudden check to the cutaneous secretion by cold and damp, or by loss of blood, or anything that suddenly lowers the system. It is, however, very common to meet with persons who ai-e salivated by very small quantities; and every practitioner should make a point of ascertaining this before he prescribes mercuiy for any new patient. There is good reason for believing that a great susceptibility of saliva- tion and tendency to Bright's disease of the kidney often go together. The symptoms of severe salivation are, swelling and inflammation of the salivary glands, cheeks, tongue, and fauces, with a flow of pecu- liarly fetid saliva, and superficial sloughing of the surface of the gums and of the inside of the cheeks. The best local applications for this state are, gargles of brandy and water, of the solution of chloride of lime, of tannin, or of hydrochloric acid (F. 107, et seq.), or chlorate of potass (F. 204). The bowels should be kept open by aperients; whilst the patient should have a good diet, and the iodide of potassium with bark