559 STRANGULATED HERNIA. if the hernia be omental, the symptoms will probably be less acute than if it be intestinal; but not much less. The bowels may act in this case: also if ?iportion of the calibre of the bowel be constricted, and not the whole, so that a passage may be left: also if the vermifoi-m appendix be the only part constricted ;* but the surgeon must not think the case cleared up if the bowels act, if other symptoms remain. Morbid Appearances.—After death £i-om strangulated hei'nia, the bowels are found reddened, the upper portion of them much distended, and there are effusions of turbid serum and lymph. Around the sac the tissues are oedematous or emphysematous. The strangulated intes- tine is dark, claret-coloured, and turgid with blood, roughened in patches by a coating of lymph ;—or displaying patches of gangrene, in the form of greenish or ash-coloured spots, which break down under the finger. The mucous and muscular coats, where they have been sub- jected to the pressure of the stricture, are liable to be ulcerated. The omentum is dark red ; if gangrenous, it feels crispy and emphysematous, and the blood in its veins is coagulated. The sac also contains bloody serum. Treatment.—The indications are, to return the intestine,, or such portion of it as may be reducible; and for this purpose to divide any constricting part, if necessary. The Taxis.—This is a Greek Avord, absurdly and pedantically used to signify the acts of gentle pressure with the hands, by which hernise are reduced. The bladder having been emptied, the patient should lie down in an attitude of complete repose, and be put under the influence of chloroform; if this be not used, he may be made to lie in a warm bath, with his shoulders raised; and both his thighs should be raised towards the belly, and be placed close to each other, so that every muscle and ligament connected with the abdomen may be relaxed. If not narcotized, he should be engaged in conversation, to prevent him from straining with his respiratory muscles. In order effectually to remove the expulsive force of the diaphragm, Dr. Buchanan, of Glasgow, directs the patient to make a deep expiration, and to abstain from drawing in the breath as long as possible.f Then the surgeon, if the tumour be large, grasps it with the palms of both hands, gently com- presses it, so as to squeeze out a little flatus and venous blood, and occasionally with his fingers gently moves the parts at the neck of the tumour, or pei'haps tr'es to pull them very gently downwards, in oi'der if possible to dislodge them.| This operation may be continued for a quarter or half an hour, or longer, if the tumour be indolent, but not * Smyly on Hernia, Dublin Journal, May, 1863. + Quoted from Glasgow Medical Journal, July, 1856, in Ranking, vol. xxiv. X Mr, T. Hunt, late of Herne Bay, now of Alfred Place, in a communication with which he has favoured the author, condemns all kneading and pushing, and says that he believes that gontle, long-continued, and equable pressure ■will reduce every hernia, provided time and gentleness are allowed for the operation. Mr. Hunt's opinion is grounded upon numerous cases during a practice of thirty years.