58 CHRONIC ABSCESS. reddish-gray, distinctly-organised cyst;—there is little or no vascu- larity in the parts adjoining;—and the pus usually is thin and flaky. Symptoms.—When first detected, a chronic abscess appears as an obscure tumour, with a fluctuation more or less distinct according to its distance from the surface. It is free from pain, tenderness, swelling, and redness, unless far advanced, or accidentally inflamed. Progress.—These abscesses may attain an enormous magnitude, before the coverings ulcerate. When, however, from the increasing distension, or from some accidental irritation, this does happen, the skin reddens, inHames, and uh^erates, and so the matter is discharged. Terminations.—(1.) In slight cases the interior of the sac granu- lates ;—the reddened skin around the orilice ulcerates;—and the sore so formed may heal. (2.) If the restorative powers are weak, or the abscess is caused by a piece of diseased bone or some other source of irritation whicli is not lemoved, one or more sinuses may remain, (/i.) If, on the other hand, the abscess is very laige, or if, after the admission of air, the pus have not a free exit, a most serious train of consequences will ensue. The pus, exposed to the atmosphere, putre- fies,—the hydrosulphate of ammonia (tlie product of putrefaction) is absorbed into the blood,*—and a train of typhoid sym[)toms comes on precisely like those which were produced by the air of a cesspool in Dr. T. H. Barker's experiments. There is hot and dry skin ; dry and glazed ton'j;ne ; p irclic l lips ; the formation of healthy pus ceases; the pulse is lapid aiiil j.'rluipj;; there is low muttering delirium, and picking of tJie bedclothes and jci king of the muscles of the arms and legs {subsulttis tendinmn); the bowels are ])aralysed and tympanitic, or else probably there is offensive diarrhcca, and the patient, if unrelieved, sinks coma- lose. Prognosis.—Hence, the danger of these abscesses will be great, if the sac has attained a large size, and has advanced so far towards ulceration that a spontaneous and permanent aperture is inevitable, more especially if it is connected with a carious bone which cannot be got at, and which will keep up the secretion of pus. Treatjii-:nt,—Thei'e are three indications: (1.) To amend the general health, and cure diseased bone, &c., or whatever may be the root of the evil. (2.) Absorption of the matter may sometimes be effected by stimu- lants, in cases not arising from diseased bone, aj)plied to the tumour; as the Emp. Ammoniaci cum Hydrarg. ; or F. 160. (3.) But if the tumour becomes large, it should be opened;— especially if there be much redness and thinning of the skin. And a dilfei-ent proceeding is requisite in different cases. If the abscess is superficial and small, a sufficient opening should * It may be detected in the blood and urine. The blood in these cases is black, and refuses to coagulate; which is precisely the effect produced by adding the hydrosulphate of ammonia to healthy blood. Vide M. Bonnet's J'apers in the Med. Gaz. vol. xxi.; Dr. T. H. Barker on Sewer Exhalations; and Richardson on the Blood, Appendix I., 1858.