624 ENLARGED PEOSTATE. other source of irritation. The symptoms are, great weight, pain, and throbbing at the neck of the bladder, and tenderness of the perinseum; the gland feels swelled and tender on examination by the rectum, and there are frequent, violent, and exceedingly painful efforts to make water: as the disease subsides, a greyish viscid muco-purulent matter is voided by the urine. Treatment.—Rest in bed, cupping or leeches to the perinseum, or general bleeding if the patient is strong, hot baths, poultices, and fomentations: and enemata of starch ^ij., laudanum 5SS. every night. If the urine cannot be passed without it, a very small gum catheter may be introduced ; but it should be avoided if possible. II. Chronic Inflammation, with enlargement from interstitial deposit, may be a sequel of the acute; and should be treated by baths, small doses of mercury, alkalies, and iodide of potassium. III. Abscess of the prostate is an occasional, though rare, conse- quence of tubercular deposit in scrofulous subjects. It is more com- monly an acute affection, and may be suspected if rigors, and obscure swelling in the perinasum, with an evident and elastic enlargement felt by the finger in the rectum, with great tenderness on pressure, follow the symptoms of acute inflammation. The dorsal vein of the penis is often distended ; there is some oedema of the prepuce, and semi-erection of the penis from pressure. In any such case, the swelling should at once be freely punctured through the rectum with a bistoury. If left to itself, the abscess may burst into the rectum or the urethra, which latter circumstance will be indicated by a sudden discharge of pus with the urine, and a stinging pain accompanying the discharge of the last few drops. If the signs of its having opened into the ui'ethra are pre- sent, no opening should be made through the rectum or perinseum, lest a urinary fistula ensue. Peihaps thei-e may be haemorrhage. If the case is chronic and the habit scrofulous, quinine and tonics, and small doses of cubebs, to act as a gentle stimulant on the parts, will be of service. IV. Chronic Enlargement, or Hypertrophy.—"The pros- tate," says Mr. Ellis, " is essentially a muscular body, consisting of circular or orbicular involuntary fibres, with one large central hole or the passage of the urethra, and another smaller oblique opening, directed upwards below the form.er for the transmission of the common ejaculatory seminal ducts to the central urinary canal. . . Its circular fibres are directly continuous behind, without any separation, with the circular fibres of the bladder." The prostate is thus essentially a cir- cular involuntary sphincter to the neck of the bladder, and expeller of the seminal fluid; but although it contains many mucous glands and follicles, intermixed with the muscular fibres, it is by no means entitled to the name gland. It contains, further, a small vesicle or utricle, at the mouth of which the ejaculatory ducts open, and which is believed to be the male homologue of the female uterus. The affection we now treat of is peculiar to advanced life, and con- sists in an hypertrophy or enlargement of the natural muscular struc-