246 DISEASES OF THE BONES. in the interior ; or at least the probe will strike against dead bone, which may be a long time separating itself from the living. Treatment.—The indication is to remove the sequestrum. Any hope of its being absorbed or extruded by any natural process, is quite nugatory; and to permit it to remain, is but to condemn the patient to a perpetuance of disease and deformity. So soon, therefore, as the shell of new bone is sufficiently strong, and the old sufficiently loose, the latter should be removed. If small, it may perhaps be grasped and removed without difficulty ; if larger, an operation will be necessary. A free incision should be made so as to expose the surface of the bone, and it should be made at a part where cloaccB exist, or where the bone is nearest the skin. Then the new shell must be perforated with the trephine, or with Hey's saw ; or the cloacge may be enlai ged with bone forceps, or with a chisel or gouge ; —and the sequestrum must be drawn out. If it cannot be extracted entire, it should be divided with a cutting forceps, and each portion be extracted separately. If the sequestrum cannot easily be extracted, the wound should be plugged with lint, which will tend to enlarge the cloacae. Mr. Stanley directs that as little as possible of the new bony shell should be removed, because it might not be replaced, and the bone be left too weak to be useful. Necrosis of the ai'ticular extremities of bones, or of the tarsus or carpus, often causes irreparable disease of the neighbour- ing joints, and requires excision or amputation. Yet, even here, conservatism should prevail, if possible; and free incisions for the discharge of pus and debris, and for the extraction of dead or carious portions of bone should be resorted to, before a part is condemned. II. Exfoliation signifies the mortification and * The upper sbows a gouge; the lower a useful form of forceps for seizing and extracting the sequestrum. t This cut shows the extremity of the phalanx in the act of separation by exfoliation. At the part where the separation is to occur, the cancelli are seen to be enlarged, so as to form a kind of dipM, and their walls are thin.