DISSECTION WOUNDS. 175 and extensive use of antiseptic injections in the dissecting-rooms of late years has very much diminished the danger from this cause to the dis- sector. It now rarely happens that unpleasant symptoms occur. Many have been daily in the habit of dissecting for many years, and frequently cut and punctured, without ever having a bad symptom. In almost all cases where symptoms do occur, the subject of them has been reduced in health previously. Post-mortem wounds, "where the bodies are fresh, and the poisons they may contain are in full action, are much more dangerous. Symptoms.—Supposing the patient have infected bis finger through a wound (which is in most cases so slight as to pass un- heeded), at a period varying from six to eighteen hours subsequently, he feels altogether unwell: he is depressed, faint, and chilly, and com- plains of lowness of spirits and nausea. These symptoms are soon suc- ceeded by rigors, severe headache, and vomiting ; tlie pulse is frequent and sharp, but weak; the tongue is coated, and there is the greatest restlessness and despondency. Then the ^jrs^ local symptom appears in the form of a most excruciating pain and tenderness of the shoulder, corresponding to the hand that was wounded. And in some cases there soon afterwards arises a pustule or fester, on or near the wound. But this may be unattended with any pain, and the patient may be ignorant of its existence, or may not even be aware that he has received a wound, till his attention is directed to it by his attendants. A& the case proceeds, the pain in the shoulder becomes more excruciating, and is attended with fulness of the axilla and neck ; and a doughy swelling appears on the side of the trunk, often extending from the axilla to the ilium. At first it is pale ; but it soon assumes an erysipelatous red- ness, or rather a pinkish tint, like that of peach-blossoms. The breathing now becomes difKcult; the pulse quicker and weaker ; the tongue dry, brown, and tremulous ; the mental distress is truly appalling, although there is seldom delirium; the countenance is haggard, and the skin yellow ; and the patient often expires before the local disease has made further progress. Varieties,—^1. In one small class of cases, the influence of the morbid poison is so virulent that the patient actually dies of the pre- cursory fever, before sufficient time has elapsed for any local disease to appear—either in the axilla, or in the wound, or elsewhere. The most speedily fatal case on record, that of Mr. Elcock, was of this variety. He died in forty hours from the receipt of the dissection wound ; and the nervous commotion and mental despondency which he suffered were even parallel to those of hydrophobia. Dr. Bell, of Plymouth, died in the same manner. 2. In another class, ditfuse cellular abscesses occur in several remote parts—the knee, or elbow, for instance, as well as in the axilla, as in the case of J\Ir. Sliekelton.* * The case of Dr. Bell may be found in Batter on Irritative Fever. Those of Mr. Elcock and Mr. Shelielton are quoted at length (witli many others) in Travers on Constitutional Irritation. See also a paper by j\Ir. Adam, in the Glasgow Medical Journal, August, 1830; Stafford in Bled. "Chir. Trans, vol. xx. 1836.