654 LITHOTOMY. of an assistant, who sat astride behind him. This is dispensed with in these chloroform days, and the shoulders are raised comfortably by a pillow. Then, in order to expose the perinaeum thoroughly, he must be made to raise and separate his thighs; and to grasp the outside of each foot with the hand of the same side; and the hand and foot may be firmly bound together by a broad gai-ter. Mr. Pi lchard, of Bris- tol, employs a kind of anklet and bracelet, which are buckled round wrist and ankle respectively, and can be securely hooked together or un- hooked in an instant. This is pre- ferred by Mr. Thompson. The but- tocks should be brought to the edge of the table ; meanwhile, if not done before, the perinaeum should be shaved. The surgeon may, says Mr. Fergusson, pass his left forefinger well oiled into the rectum, to ascertain the size of tlie prostate, and its depth from the surface; he should also explore with his fingers the surface of the peri- nosum, and the position of the rami and tuberositits of the ischia. This exploration, says Mr. Thompson, also makes the rectum contract to the smallest bulk. Everything being now prepared, an assistant on each side holding the thighs firmly asunder—another being at hand to give the sui-geon his instruments—and a fourth stationed on the left side holding the staff perpendicularly, and well hooked against the symphysis pubis—in which position he is to hold it steadily from first to last;—and keeping up the scrotum out of the way;—the surgeon places the fingers of the left hand on the right buttock, and with tlie thumb fixes the integu- ments of the perinseum, taking care, however, not to draw them up. Then he commences by a free division of the skin, with more or less of the subjacent tissues; entering his knife just on the left side of the raphe, about an inch and three quarters in front of the anus, and cutting downwards, with a sawing motion, to midway between the anus and the tuberosity of the left ischium. " The blade of the knife," says Mr. Fergusson, " should next be run along the surface of the exposed fat and cellular tissue, and then the forefinger of the left hand be thrust into the wound, about its middle, and directed upwards and forwards between the left erector and accelerator muscles." If any muscular fibres of the transversus or other tissue offers resistance, it may be divided by a touch with the knife ; but usually they give way before the finger, which reaches and feels the groove of the staff in the