HERNIA. 551 nature of the disease whicli required the operation, and on the effects which this may have ah^eady caused. Out of forty-eight cases col- lected by Mr. Hawkins, there is scarcely one in which death can lairly be said to have been caused by the operation itself.* IX. Gastuotomy for the relief of Starvation.—In a case ot cancer of the oesophagus, in which life was at the point of extinction by starvation from utter impossibility of swallowing; in which the trachea even had been opened for the relief of the breathing, and in which the rectum, as it always will in time, ejected the materials mtro- duced as nuti-itious enemata, Dr, Habershon caused an aperture to be made into the stomach, through the left linea semilunaris, which was skilfully effected by Mr. Cooper Forster. Eggs, milk, and other articles of nourishment were introduced, and the man lived till the third day after the operation, with his sense of starvation relieved, and then ex- pired in comparative comfort.f X. In a case of acute inflammatory disease of the Appendix C^CI, arising apparently from the impaction of a small mass of feculent matter, Mr. Hancock made an incision close above Poupart's ligament into the abdominal cavity, and gave issue to some offensive serum, to the great relief of the patient, who was moribund, but recovered. He proposes a similar opei ation for the purpose of letting acrid effusions drain away, in cases of unhealthy peritonitis, and the hint is a valuable one.l CHAPTER XVIII. HERNIA. SECTION I.—NATURE AND CAUSES OF HERNIA GENERALLY. Definition.—Hernia signifies a protrusion of any riscus from its natural cavity. But the word, used by itself, is restricted to signify protrusion of the abdominal viscera. Causes.—The formation of hernia may be readily understood by considering that the abdominal viscera are subject to frequent and violent pressure from the diaphragm and other muscles by which they are surrounded, a pressure which tends to force them outwardly against the parietes of the abdomen. If any point of the parietes be not strong * Almost all that is known of these operations is summed up in a paper by Mr, Caesar Hawkins, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv., which contains copious re- ferences to the original memoirs ol Amussat, Pring, Maitland, Teale of Leeds, Evans ot Derby, Clement of Shrewsbury, Baker of Birmingham, and other English and Continental operators. Motes of a good case in wblch it was per- formed by Mr. Hutchinson, for obstruction by cancerous tumour following ovariotomy, Med. Times, 1859, vol. i., p. 11. t Quoted in Ranking, vol. xxviii., from Guy's Hosp. Eep., vol. iv. 3rd Series. X A short account of disease of the Appendix Cajci, cured by operation; by Henry Hancock. Loud. 1848.