SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 91 constitution, it may be shown, first, that it may he congenital and hereditary; that is to say, that scrofulous parents may transmit their peculiar organisation, and predisposition to disease, to their chil- dren. It is believed that syphilis of parents occasions scrofula m children, and that gin-drinking has a still more decided effect. Secondly. The scrofulous habit, if not congenital, may probably be created by any circumstance capable, directly or indirectly, of lowering the vital energies ; by poverty and wretchedness ; meagre, watery, and insufficient food; neglect of exercise; insufficient clothing; neglect of cleanliness; habitual exposure to damp and cold, but most especially by that want of fresh air and sunlight, which is the curse of the crowded habitations of towns. Thirdly. The scrofulous habit may be so intense, that the patient is attacked with some of the diseases that we shall presently describe, in spite of all care. Or, on the other hand, actual scrofulous disease may not appear unless the health is first depressed by some ether disease, such as scaiiatina, measles, the small-pox, or some other acute malady. Moreover, eveiything that disorders the digestive organs may bring it into action. It rarely breaks out before two or after thirty years of age ; although it may be called into active operation at any age by circumstances which lower the health. The time of the second denti- tion and puberty are dangerous periods. It is doubtful whether the English climate has more influence in causing it than any other. It is true that the natives of warm climates, who are brought here, are apt to sutler; and so are the birds and ani- mals imported, and shut up in close dark cages: but these are special cases. One fact, however, is certain, that persons whose occupations cause them to be exposed to the weather at all hours and in all seasons, are not nearly so liable to scrofulous disease as others, whose occupa- tions are sedentary, and carried on in close, hot, ill-ventilated work- shops. Pure air and sunlight often make amends tor defects of food and clothing. Scrofulous Disease.—When the scrofulous constitution has been created, and circumstances have occurred to elicit an outbreak of actual disease, a vast number of morbid processes may be set on foot, all of which are included under the term of scrofulous disease. Their general characteristics are, that they are excessively insidious in their ap- proaches ; seldom attended with acute pain, or with symptoms of sthenic inflammation; excessively obstinate; diflicult to control by medicine ; tending to the destruction of tissues by slow ulceration ; and defective in the processes of repair. Such ai'e the diseases spoken of in the next Section; besides scrofulous otorrhcea and ophthalmia ; ophthalmia tarsi; ozfxna; disease of bones, joints, testicle, and mam- mary gland; and convulsions and acute hydrocephalus during infancy. Tubercle.—The common doctrine is, that the characteristic mani- festation of scrofula is tubercle; a substance which is liable to be de- posited in the lungs, lymphatic glands, areolar tissue, brain, bone, and glands of the intestines. Tubercular disease or tuberculosis is held