IMPOTKNCE. 674 This gradually spreads, affects the whole scrotum and neighboui ing parts of the penis, and ulcerates, producing a fungous sore with ragged edges, discharging a thin offensive matter, and causing so much pain and constitutional disturbance as ultimately to destroy life. The super- ficial inguinal glands become secondarily affected in this foi-mof disease, constituting an important diagnosis between cancer scroti, and cancer of the testis itself in which the iliac and lumbar glands are first affected. This disease is probably, in general, epithelioma, sometimes cancer; in either case, free and early excision should be adopted, as we have often before said.* SECTION IV.—IMPOTENCIO AND SYPHILOPHOBIA. Impotence in the male may depend on a variety of conditions. 1. It may be caused by absence, or mutilation, or malfoi mation, or original weakness and want of development of the genital organs. 2. After any severe illness, the genitals may remain incapable of per- forming their functions, long after the restoration of the health and strength in other respects. Steel and other tonics, with cantharides, musk, nux vomica, Indian hemp, galvanism cautiously applied to the spine, spices, eggs, and oysters, and above all, time, and abstinence from attempts at connexion till the strength is fully restored, are the remedies. Phosphorus, F. 191, is said to be a potent aphrodisiac. 3. Blows on the head, or spine, are apt to be followed by impotence; which sometimes is relieved, but more frequently is permanent. A cautious course of mercury, followed by the stimulating aphrodisiacs just mentioned, are the remedies most likely to be of use, A similar result sometimes follows a fit of apoplexy. 4. Certain diseases are always attended with a diminution, and sometimes with a complete loss of sexual power; especially diabetes, diseases of the kidneys, some forms of dyspepsia, and the latter stages of most chronic organic dis- eases. 5. It sometimes happens that a young man, the first time he yields to carnal temptation—or that a newly-married man on the night of his nuptials, finds himself incapable of accomplishing his wishes— through awkwardness, or timidity, or over-anxiety, or, perhaps, be- cause on nearer inspection he finds his chere amie less tempting than she seemed, or because the consciousness of guilt prevails over the sense of desire. He straightway fancies himself impotent. The sur- geon should cheer his spirits, and should inform him that his case is by no means uncommon: he should advise him, if married, to banish his fears ; if single, to wait till he can gratify his passions legitimately in marriage. There is a very frequent and distressing class of cases, in which the patients, generally young men of good education and refined feelings, and with vigorous development of the genital oi gans, believe themselves * See Walshe on Cancer ; Hughes Bennett on Cancer, p. 126; Lebert sur le Cancer, p. 674; Hannover on Epithelioma, p. 141. I'aget's Lectures, vol. li.