LAKYNX AKD TRACHEA. 510 flammation. Here the laryngoscope will be of service. Dr. Gibb has twice by means of forceps removed a pin sticking across the larnyx. In another case a piece of walnut shell was seen but could not be removed, and was afterwards coughed up spontaneously. Small irre- gular bodies, such as bits of apple core, may remain for months. The trachea must be opened if there be risk of suffocation; and after a time if need be, the wound may be enlarged upwards to feel for and remove the intruding body. (c.) The foreign substance may be loose in the trachea; especially if a button, stone, or other smooth body. In this case, the violent coughing and sense of suffocation produced by its first introduction generally subside for a time ; but every now and then there are violent fits of coughing and of spasmodic difficulty of breathing, during which the substance may be heard by means of the stethoscope, or perhaps may be felt by the finger to be forcibly impelled against the upper part of the larnyx. (d.) The foreign substance may have passed into one of the bronchi, where, perhaps, it may be detected by causing a whistling or murmur- ing sound; and it will very pi obably be dislodged and driven up- wards when the patient coughs. The light bronchus is that into which it generally falls, because it is a little anterior to the left, and encroaches a little on the middle line. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish the symptoms produced by a foreign body in the larynx or trachea from those of croup or laryngitis. But the surgeon may generally pretty confidently decide that a foreign body is present, if the symptoms came on suddenly during a meal;—or perhaps the history will be that the patient was playing with a button, or cherrystone, or some similar body in his mouth, and that he chanced to fiill down, when the button disappeared, and the symptoms came on directly afterwards. Moreover, in these cases, expiration is generally more difficult than inspiration, whereas it is usually the reverse in croup. Besides, when there suddenly occurs a fixed pain, and a fixed whistling sound in the larnyx or bronchi, without any other symptoms of croup, the case must almost of necessity arise from a foreign body.* If there is any doubt, the pharynx and oesophagus should be well searched, hj finger and probang, to make sure that the foreign body is not there. If any foreign body remain in either bronchus, it sets up more or less irritation: cough, pain, muco-purulent expectoration ; perhaps night-sweats, and other signs of hectic. Treatment.—When any foreign substance has entered the trachea, the indication plainly is, to get it out again ; and the great point in the treatment is, to lull the vigilance of the muscles which guard the aperture of the glottis, so as to induce them to let it pass out by the way it entered. For it must be remarked that it is muscular spasm, * See an interesting paper by Mr. C. Hawkins, and another by Mr. Travers, jn.n., Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxiii.; Sir B. Brodie on Mr. Brunei's Case, Med. Gaz., July tth, 1843 ; a Review of Gross on Foreign Bodies in the Air Passages, by Mr. Henry Lee, Brit, and For. Med. Cliir. Rev., Jan. 1856.