CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. 370 Treatment.—The indications are : 1, to recover the patient from insensibility and collapse; 2, to prevent inflammation of the brain; 3, to restore any faculties that may remain impaired. 1. In order to fulfil the first indication, friction of the surface with the hand, and the application of warmth .to the feet, or mustard plasters to the calves of the legs, may be resorted to, if the depression is very great, and the pulse very low ; but it is better in most cases to leave the patient to recover by himself, with the head on a level with the chest, than to be officious in administering stimulants, as they would increase the eflusion of blood, supposmg the brain to be lace- rated. Mr. Guthrie's sentiments on this point are very decisive. " It is useless to open the patient's veins," he observes, " for they cannot bleed until he begins to recover, and then the loss of blood would probably kill him. It is as improper to put strong drinks into his mouth, for he cannot swallow; and if he should be so far recovered as to make the attempt, they might probably entei- the larnyx and destroy him. If he be made to inhale strong stimulating salts, they will probably give rise to inflammation of the inside of his nose and throat, to his subsequent great distress."* Professor Miller has well observed, that daring the insensibility from shocks the patient should be examined to ascertain what other injuries, if any, he has sustained. Broken bones, dislocations, and wounds should then be set to rights. 2. After reaction has taken place, the bowels should be freely acted on, and perfect rest and low diet should be observed. If the pulse becomes hard and frequent, and if the patient complains of pain, throb- bing or tightness intiie head, or becomes flushed, or delirious, or stupid and comatose, if vomiting come on again, or heat of head and white tongue, all which symptoms indicate the approach of phrenitis, blood should be taken from the arm, or by leeches or cupping from the head, the purgatives should be repeated as often as may be necessary, with saline and antimonial draughts in the intervals; and the head should he shaved and kept wet with evaporating lotions or iced water, or ice-bag. As a general rule, after any severe blow on the head, the patient should observe a cautious antiphlogistic regi- men for a month or six weeks—carefully keeping himself free from all fatigue, intemperance, and excitement. If violent delirium or con- vulsions come on after an injury to the head which has been treated by copious venaesection, and if they are not relieved by further depletion, or if that seems inexpedient, they would probably yield to acetate of morphia. 3. In order to remove headache, deafness, giddiness, squinting, loss of memory, tinnitus auriura, and other remote consequences of con- cussion, a course of mild alterative mercurials, repeated blisters, or an issue or seton, the shower-bath, change of air, and a most regular diet, are the remedies. * Guthrie, G. J., on Injuries of the Head affecting the Brain, Lend. 1842, p. 11.