339 THE H^MOERHAGIC DIATHESIS. to be treated, like the last case, by two ligatures; one immediately- above, the other below the wounded part, if careful compi-ossion tails to effect a cure. III. Aneurysmal Varix is produced when an arteiy is punctured through a vein (the brachial artery through the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, for instance), and they adhere together, the communication between them remaining permanent. The consequence is, that blood passes from the artery into the vein at each beat of the pulse, causing it to become enlarged and tortuous, and to present a vibrating thrill at each pulse. IV. Varicose Aneurysm is said to exist when an artery has also been punctured through a vein, and a false aneurysm has formed between them, opening into both, and formed of lymph that was effused between them. The difference between aneurysmal varix and varicose aneurysm (which is a cause of perplexity to young students) is this: aneurysmal varix is a swelling of a vein, caused by the admission of arterial blood into it. Varicose aneurysm is the same thing, but with the addition of a false aneurysm, situated between the artery and vein. These two cases need not be interfei'ed with unless they enlarge rapidly, or cause inconvenience. If they do, md flexion fail (p, 348), a ligature must be placed both above and below the wounded part of the artery. SECTION IV.—THE HiEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. The hemorrhagic Diathesis is a peculiar constitutional defect, which seems to consist in a want of contractility of the arteries, and of coagulability of the blood ; so that the slightest wound bleeds almost uncontrollably, and life may be lost through the most trifling injury or surgical operation. If the existence of this diathesis be ascertained, surp-eons would do well to refrain from operations with the knife on the individual possessing it. In a case of congenital phymosis, in a person of this kind, which fell under Mr. Liston's care, he very judi- ciously employed the ligature instead of the knife. This diathesis often runs in families. Thus the history is recorded of four children who were born of healthy parents: their skins were white and complexions fair; they were very subject to fever with ecchymosis; their blood was very fluid, but coagulated in the usual manner ; violent coughing easily produced hsemoptysis or epistaxis, and any slight injury caused ecchymosis of the skin. One died at twenty months from biting his tongue; another at eight years from general mucous hsemorrhage ; and a third at twelve from epistaxis. In a case of obstinate bleeding of this kind, pressure and the nitrate of silver, matico, or tannin, locally, and a nutritious diet, with tincture of the muriate of iron or the acetate of lead and opium, or gallic acid, or turpentine in very small doses, F. 74, seem to be the most hopeful remedies. Of course in such cases as these it would be a great absurdity to tie an arterial trunk at a distance, though the mistake has been committed.* * Vide Brit, and For. Med. Rev., Jan. 1840; and two valuable papers by Dr,