FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 261 the roller; and lastly, the elbow should be well raised by a sling, which is also to support the forearm. It will be noticed, that the shoulder is kept up by the sling, out by the pad, and back by the bandage. The same objects may be gained by means of three handkerchiefs, one to act as the pad in the axilla ; another for a sling; and the third to keep the arm close to the body — the whole being stitched together. An excellent plan, of French origin, and frequently used by Professor Syme, of Edinburgh, is to take three silk handker- chiefs ; two ai-e looped round the shoulders under the axilla, and tied behind, leaving one end of the knot longer than the other. The long ends are then passed across the back and under the opposite loop, and finally tied together, drawing forcibly the shoulders back- ward towards each other. The third is used as an elbow- sling to support the arm and bind it to the side. Another simple contrivance, invented by Mr. James Duncan, for the same purpose, is a strip jean about a yard long, of the shape represented in the next figure (p. 262). The elbow is fixed in the hole ; the smaller straps pass back and front of the chest, and are buckled over the opposite shoulder; and the bi-oad part is buckled round the chest, confining the arm to the side. The whole being in one piece cannot slip, and is very available for children. In ordinary cases the patient may be allowed to walk about in a week or ten days, and the cure will be completed in a month or five weeks. The patient should be informed that some little irregularity is apt to remain. If, however, there is any difficulty in maintaining a proper position, the patient must be confined to bed, and some additional apparatus be employed. The simplest is a straight splint across the shoulders, to which they are to be bound by the figure-of-8 bandage ; or a splint shaped like a T, of which the horizontal part is bound to the shoulders; and the vertical part passes down the back, and is confined by a belt round the abdomen. Besides these there is the claviole bandage, which consists of two