WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 543 the passage of cart-wheels, spent shot, and so forth, may produce vaiious results. 1. They may cause severe concussion and collapse, which may either speedily prove fatal, or may pass off' without further ill consequences, or may be succeeded by inHammation. 2. They may produce laceration of the bowels, or of the solid viscera; with effusion of blood or of their secretions into the perito- nseal cavity. This may be suspected if the patient complains of excru- ciatinpj pain radiating over the whole belly ; if the features are pinched, the belly soon swells, and the pulse is very small and tremulous. Treatment.—The patient must be suffered to lie quietly during the stage of collapse, without any officious administration of stimulants ; and so soon as pain or vomiting comes on, he should have opium by enema. Subsequently leeches, and fomentations to the belly, to abate inflammation ; and opium, to support the system under the irritation, are the only available remedies. The bowels should not be disturbed either with purgatives or enemata for the first three days, nor should any nutriment be taken, save,very small quantities of ice, milk and water, or beef-tea, at intervals. IV. Abscesses between the abdominal parietes occasionally result from contusions or punctured wounds, and sometimes occur idiopathi- cally. According to the principles laid down in the chapter on Abscess, they should be opened early, both because of the tendinous structures by which they are covered, and of the possibility that they might burst into the peritonasura. V. Penetrating Wounds of the abdomen may be divided into four species: namely, 1st, simple wounds of the parietes; 2ndly, wounds of the viscera ; 3rdly, wounds of the parietes with protrusion of the viscera; and, 4thly, wounds in which some of the viscera are protruded and wounded likewise. 1. In the case of a simple wound of the parietes, the surgeon must first (if it be large enough) gently introduce his finger, to ascertain that no part of the intestines is beginning to protrude ; then the wound must be closed by suture, which should be passed deeply. If the epigastric artery is divided, it must be cut down upon and tied. The surgeon must recollect that when any part of the abdominal parietes has been wounded or severely bruised, it is almost certain afterwards to becom.e the seat of hernial protrusion. 2. Wounds of the viscera.— In the case of small wounds of the abdomen without protrusion, it will be often impossible to say whether the bowels are wounded or not, but the treatment must be altogether the same, whether they are or not. (a) Wounds of the stomach may be known by the situation and depth of the wound, by vomiting of blood, by the very great depression C. E. Thompson of Westerham (describes the improved trocar mentioned at p. 534), Med. Times, 1858, vol. i., p. 329 ; Spencer Wells in Med. Times and Gaz. 1858 and 1864 ; Dr. Clay in Obstet. Trans., vol. v., his 109th and 110th cases, Glasgow Medical Journal, Oct., 1864.