304 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT, SECTION VI.—DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT, OR MORBUS COX^. This joint is exceedingly liable to chronic disease, and there are cer- tain peculiarities in the symptoms which render it expedient to devote a section to it in particular. It is uncertain whether scrofulous caries of the head of the femur, or whether ulceration of the synovial mem- brane and cartilage, is the primary morbid change; but the symptoms and ulterior consequences are nearly the same in either case. Symptoms.—The disease begins with slight occasional pain, and more or less stiffness and weariness in the joint, some eversion of the foot and dragging of the leg, and lameness. As it advances, the pain becomes very excruciating in the cases of ulceration of cartilage, whilst in those of scrofulous caries it is comparatively trifling; but in both forms it is felt chiefly in the knee ; and in the scrofulous caries, the pain in the knee may be the only symptom complained of; nay, there may even be some swelling there. The criterion, however, is, that if the surgeon presses on the hip-joint, either in front over the psoas and iliacus, or behind the great trochanter, or if he jerks the femur against the acetabulum by a sharp tap on the trochanter major or' heel, pain will be felt in the hip, and the pain in the knee will be greatly aggravated. After these symptoms have gone on increasing for a variable time, the nates become flattened, its lower fold less evident, and the whole limb weaker ; and it is noticed that the affected limb is, or appears to be, longer than the sound one, a lengthening which possibly may depend in some slight degree on effusion into the synovial membrane, and protrusion of the trochanter; but much more probably is caused by the patient's habit of standing with his weight supported entirely on the sound limb, and of lowering the diseased side of the pelvis, and stretching out the diseased leg to steady himself with. Sometimes, instead of being lengthened, the limb is apparently shortened, as shown in the adjoining cut (Fig. 1), which gives a bird's-eye view of a child, a patient of Mr. Partridge's, in the King's College Hospital. This apparent shortening is caused by contraction of the sartorius, tensor vaginae femoris, psoas, and iliacus, and by the patient's endeavours to throw the limb into an easy posture; it varies from time to time, and is not to be seen in all cases. But if the disease proceed, there comes another kind of shortening, caused either by absorption or by caries of the neck of the femur, or by the destruction of the acetabulum and capsular ligament and dislo- cation of the bone upwards by the muscles. The deformed appear- ance caused by this dislocation is well exhibited in the following sketch (Fig. 2), taken from a patient under the care of Mr. Fergusson, in the King's College Hospital; it also shows the apparently broad and large, but really wasted and flattened form of the nates. The effect of the .altered length of the limb in distorting the spine is also seen. Some- times the limb is turned inwards, as in dislocation on the dorsum illi;