250 FRACTURE. similar situation. It must be noticed that this ossification of the fibrous septa of a cancerous tumour does not constitute an osteoid cancer. Of the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment, we need not speak again here, except to say that the question of amputation or extirpation must be decided by the rules given in the Section on the Treatment of Cancer. SECTION VIII.—FRACTURE GENERALLY. Definition.—The term fracture explains itself. Fracture is said to be simple, when there is no wound of the skin communicating with the broken part of the bone ; compound, when there is such a wound; transverse, when the line of fracture lies across the limb; oblique, when the line of fracture slopes, so that the fractured surfaces tend to slip off each other; comminuted, when the bone is smashed into fragments ; complicated, when there is laceration of artery, or other additional injury. Exciting Causes.—The exciting causes of fracture are two—me- chanical violence and muscular action. Mechanical violence may be direct or indirect. It is said to be direct, when it produces a fracture at the part to which it is actually applied; as in the instance of frac- ture of the skull from a violent blow. It is said to be indirect, when a force is applied to two parts of a bone, which gives way between. This is exemplified in the case of fracture of the clavicle from a fall on the shoulder. The sternal end of the bone is impelled by the weight of the body, and the aci omial end by the object it falls against; and the bone, acted upon by these two forces, gives way in the middle. Some- times in children fracture is partial {green-stick or willow fracture), part only of the fibres breaking, and the rest bending. The bones most commonly fractured by muscular action are the patella and olecranon ; but the humerus, femur, or any other bone may give way from this cause, if preternaturally weak. Predisposing Causes.—There are certain circumstances which render the bones more liable than usual to be broken. These are, 1. The atrophy arising from old age, or from prolonged disuse of any limb. 2. Certain diseases, as fatty degeneration, mollities ossium, and cancer. 3. Original conformation; the bones of some people being exceedingly brittle, without any assignable cause. Repair.—The first few days after fracture is a period of repose; little or no change taking place, except, perhaps, the effusion of small quantities of lymph and serum, and the absorption of blood that may have been extravasated. To this follows a period of exudation, in which plastic lymph is effused between, possibly around, the broken ends. To this follows a period of development, in which the lymph is converted first into fibrous tissue, and then into bone, or first into cartilage, and then into bone. The time which elapses before union is completed may vary from four to ten weeks; being so much the less, in proportion as the patient is younger and heathier, and especially if the fracture is