DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA. 324 ened three inches and a half, and was fixed and everted; the trochanter was sunk ; and the head of the bone, close to and on a level with the tuberosity of the ischium, where it was capable of being moved under the finger. In a case of dislocation on the spine of the ischium, which happened in the practice of Mr. Earle, at St. Bartholomew's, the limb was lengthened about half an inch ; it was neither everted nor inverted, but if anything the latter : there seemed to be a gi eat vacuity in front of the hip; the edges of the sartorius and tensor vagina femoris could be plainly felt, and a cavity behind them ; and the trochanter was further back, and not so prominent as usual. But the dislocation di- rectly upwards is the most common of these unusual forms. In a case that was examined by Mr. Travers, jun., some time after the accident, the limb was completely everted and slightly moveable; and the neck of the bone lay between the two anterior spinous processes of the ilium ; so that when the patient was erect, the limb seemed to be slung or suspended from this point. The diagnosis must in such cases be guided by an attentive examination of the deformity that is present, and by the absence of any symptoms of fracture. The reduction must be effected by extension, made in such a direction as seems most likely to bring the head of the bone into its socket.* IX. Dislocations of the Knee.—Dislocation of the tibia from the femur is not very common; and, when it does occur, is rarely com- plete. In most cases the tibia is thrown backwards towards the ham. The deformity and impediment to motion will enable the practitioner to distinguish the accident: the displacement must be rectified by simple extension, and the knee be kept at rest till inflammatory symp- toms have subsided. There often remains a peimanent inability to keep the joint firm in the straight position. Dislocation of the Patella may occur either inwards or out- wards ; more frequently in the latter direction on account of the out- ward traction of the extensor muscles. The symptoms are, that the knee cannot be bent, and that the bone can be felt in its new situation. This dislocation may be caused either by mechanical violence, or by a sudden contraction of the extensors of the thigh. It mostly happens to knock-kneed, flabby people. There is, in general, no difficulty in reducing it by means of the finger and thumb, if the knee is straight and the leg raised. There is one variety of this dislocation, however, in which the patella is turned round on its long axis, so that its outer edge lies immediately under the skin, and its inner edge rests on the trochlea of the femur, where it is as firmly fixed as if screwed down. In one instance, the surgeon was unable to reduce it by any means, even although he divided the ligamentum patellae, and cut through * See a paper on Eare Dislocations of the Hip Joint, in the Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx., by Mr. Travers, jnn. Guy's Hosp. Kep., vol. i., Keate, Med. Gaz. vol. X.; a case of dislocation directly upivards, Lancet, May 15th, 1841; Mr. Earle's case, Lancet, vol. xi., p. 159; case of dislocation downwai'ds and backwards (with dissection and drawing), by Mr. Wormald, Med. Gaz., 28th Jan., 1837.