ANCHYLOSIS, 303 fitted to a splint with a hinge in it, may also be used for the purpose of gradually straightening out the jouit. 2ndly, A more active set of proceedings consists in dividing, by sub- cutaneous section, the tendons of any muscles, or any fascia, or even any muscular fibres, whose rigidity is an obstacle (see Tenotomy), Immediately after this operation, pressure should be applied to prevent bleeding, and the wound should be allowed to heal. Then a fresh attempt may be made under chloroform ; and if it can be done without too great violence, the joint may be forcibly extended so as to tear through bands of fibrous tissue in or around the joint. At the same time any degree of subluxation or displacement may be rectified. After the operation the limb must be put in an easy posture on a splint, and the case be treated hke a recent sprain, till inflammation has subsided ; then gentle passive motion will probably entirely restore the use of the limb after some weeks of treatment.* When the knee-joint is concerned, the hamstring muscles, and por- tions of fascia, may probably require division. If the elbow, the aponeurotic offshoot of the biceps. The knee may be straightened by pressure; the elbow likewise by main force. The pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major and minor were divided by Diefl'enbach to effect reduction of an old dislocation of the shoulder ; and the pec- tinaeus and sartorius by an American sui-geon in a case of contracted hip. 3rdly. If the anchylosis is bony and extensive, there is no resource except to saw through the bone, or cut out a wedge-shaped portion, and then employ sufficient motion to establish a false joint. This operation was successfully performed by Dr. Rhea Barton, of Philadelphia, on the hip in 1827, and on the knee in 1838. It was also successfully performed by Dr. Gibson, of Philadelphia, in a case of complete anchy- losis of the knee, with not a vestige of ligament, cartilage, or synovial membrane remaining. Having laid bare the front of the joint by a V incision above the patella, he sawed out a wedge-shaped portion of the bone, [and gently bent the rest so as not to endanger the popliteal vessels.f But of course this is so serious an operation, that it must not be undertaken without balancing the advantages with the risks of it. Moreover, before having recourse to it, the surgeon should try fairly whether the joint can be bent by main force; for it need scarcely be said that the rupture of any amount of fibrous tissue, or fracture of bony tissue without wound of skin, is a very much safer proceeding than the making a deep wound involving the bone. * See paper by Mr. Brodhurst on Forcible Extension and Rupture of uniting medium of partially anchylosed surfaces. Med. CLir. Trans., vol. xl. f Vide American Journ. Med. Sc., July, 1842, and a case by Dr. Bucli, Ran- kmg's Abstract, vol. iii. For further information, consult Fergusson, op. cit.