110 EPITHELIOMA. intermuscular tissue. The diagnosis and treatment will be more fully spoken of in the Chapter on Diseases of the Breast. Suffice it to say here, that the disease, although generally incurable, save by extirpa- tion, and although liable to return in situ after extirpation, yet has no tendency to contaminate the lymphatic glands, or to be diffused over various distant oi'gans, like cancer. VII. Fibro-Cystic Tumours are fibrous, fibroid, or fibrinous tumours containing cysts, probably from extravasation of blood. SECTION VII.—EPITHELIOMA. Definition.—A disease consisting first in abnormal development of the epithelium, and probably of the villi or papillae of skin or mucous membrane; then in ulceration ; and then in infiltration of the deeper tissues and lymphatic glands with epithelium. Symptoms. —It may begin in the form of hypertrophy of the epi- dermis or epithelium; there being asoftish, itching, vascular spot, from which cuticle is frequently desquamating; or a patch covered with a dry crust or scab. 2. There may be combined with this a hypertrophy of t\\Q papillcB in some one of the multiform shapes of warts or excre- scences ; either sprouting, prominent, and cauliflower-like, with narrow elongated neck, or broad, flat, and low. 3. The cutis vera may be the part first affected ; being thick- ened and forming a broad, oblong hard swelling, with a slight scab, or perhaps a crack on its surface ; but whether affected or not at first, it is sure to be involved as the disease extends. 4. The subcu- taneous tissue, or even the lym- phatic glands or Tbones, may be, in rare instances, the parts first affected. Anatomical Characters.—On examining a section of the dis- eased tissue, there is distin- guished first, on the surface, a layer of thickened epidermis; mixed, perhaps, with pus and scabs; it is generally opaque yellow, cheesy and brittle, and easily scraped off. 2, Next to this are noticed the papillse, hy- pertrophied in various degrees, and imbedded in the exuberant epidermis around them. 3. Under this * Section of three papillse; the middle one split. Sketched from nature. About 100 diameters.