132 BRUISES AND ECCHYMOSIS. Causes.—Ecchymosis may be produced by many other causes besides contusions. It is a symptom of certain diseases, as scm'vy, purpura, and the last stage of fevers. It may be a consequence of oblique wounds, which do not permit the blood to flow freely out; of spasms, and other violent contractions of the muscles; it may also be caused by suction (as after leech-bites), especially in a part where the skin is thin. It may further be simulated by the application of colouring matters to the skin. Lastly, ecchymosis produced during life may require to be distinguished from various appearances arising after death. Diagnosis.—Ecchymosis produced hy suction may be distinguished from that which is the result of injury, by being generally in the form of small round spots, and situated on the inside of the arms or female breasts; and the surgeon required to decide on the cause of such marks should consider whether they correspond in their appearance to the date which is assigned to them. Artificial discolouration of the shin may be distinguished from ecchy- mosis by its being generally in round or irregular spots, fringed at the edges.* Ecchymosis produced during life may be distinguished from the livid discolouration of incipient putrefaction, or that which is caused by the gravitation o/ blood in a dead body, by noticing that, in the first case, blood is effused into the cellular tissue, and is incorporated with the cutis, which is thickened ; whereas in the two latter cases, the blackness will be confined to the surface of the cutis, and if blood is effused into the cellular tissue, it will be only at some depending part, and will be fluid, and not coagulated.f Treatment.—The indications are (1) to check extravasation of blood ; (2j to prevent inflammation ; (3) and afterwards to pi'oduce absorption of the effused fluids and restore the use of the parts. The bruised part should, if possible, be placed in a raised position ; and cold or iced water, or a bladder containing ice, F. 114, should be applied at once. These measures, together with rest, moderate purga- tives, and not too full a diet,, will suffice for the first two indications; whilst the third will be fulfilled by friction with stimulating liniments, and a bandage after tenderness has subsided. For slight bruises on the face, such as a black eye, the application by a brush or piece of lint to the surface of brandy or spirits of wine, or of the tincture of matico, or a solution of alum or tannin, will often prevent the effusion of blood or its extension by astringing the vessels. If the effusion of blood is great—if the skin is so tense that it will inevitably either burst or slough—an incision may be made into the swelling, but it is better avoided. Then the clot will be gradually ex- truded by the contraction of the cavity, and a simple granulating wound will be left. But it is very bad practice to squeeze out the coagulum, * Fallot, de la Simulation et de la Dissimulation des Maladies, Bruxelles, 1836, p. 67. f Beck's Medical Jurisprudence.