VENTRAL HERNIA. 585 mended by Cooper is to place a hemisphere of ivory with its convex surface on the aperture, and retain it there with cross slips of plaster, and a bandage round the belly. The objection to this is that the con- vexity of the pad is very apt to slip out of the aperture, and so be in- effective ; while, on the other hand, if it be held effectively tight, it is not only inconvenient, but tends to dilate the aperture and keep it open. A pad of linen, covered with a round flat disc of sheet lead, will do as well. An adult should wear a truss or elastic belt, with some contrivance to prevent it from slipping down below its proper level. Mr. Wood has devised a pad for umbilical rupture which, like his trusses for inguinal and femoral hernise, is constructed upon the prin- ciple of applying the pressure at the margins of the ring, tending to close them, instead of in the centre, tending to keep them open. This pad is made of a cylinder of india-rubber or gutta percha arranged in an oval ring, the centre opening being closed by an obtura- tor made either of sheet india-rubber, or, in difficult cases, a plate of hard metal or ivory, flat and level. The ring is fixed under a broad elastic body belt, held in place by a shoulder-strap if necessary. The effect of the belt passing over the edges of the ring pad is to cause it to press backwards and inwards so as to close the opening.* (See Fig. 19.) Fig. 19. This truss has been worn in many cases, both in the adult and infant, with entire success. This surgeon has also operated with success for the radical cure of umbilical hernia which had resisted the methods of treatment by pressure. The operation consists simply in applying sub- cutaneously silver-wire sutures to the tendinous margins of the hernial opening so as to draw them together and cause their adhesion.f For the irreducible umbilical hernia a large hollow pad should be worn. If it become strangulated, and the patient is aged, and the strangulation were preceded by constipation, purgatives and copious enemata should have a fair trial. If the operation be necessary, an incision should be made over the neck of the tumour through the skin (which is very thin), and the tendinous parts be divided, and the bowels returned without opening the sac, if possible. n. Ventral Hernia is that which protrudes through the Unea alba, or through the linecB semilunares or transversce, or, in fact, through any other parts of the abdominal parietes, save those which * Wood, On Rupture, page 259. f Op. cit. page 251.