EXCISION OF JOINTS. 796 which not unfrequently retract, and cause the bone to protrude, and the stump to become conical. Treatment.—1. Painting with tincture of aconite, or Scott's oint- ment, F. IGO, spread on lint, and worn as a plaster ; or the emplastrum saponis or plumbi, combined with a little belladonna or opium ; tonics and aperients, together with change of air, sometimes suffice to re- move the extreme sensitiveness of these as well as of other irregular cicatrices, 2. If the pain and tenderness are referred to one or two nerves only, their bulbous extremities should be cut down upon and removed. 3. If, however, the whole surface of the stump Is impli- cated, or if the stump is conical, a second amputation may be re- sorted to. CHAPTER VI. EXCISION OF BONES AND JOINTS. I. Excision of Bones.—We have already stated that bone when dead must be removed by operation, because nature seems not only to have provided no means of absorption, but the process of repair enve- lops the dead portion in a sheath of new bone that renders mechanical extrusion most improbable. We also intimated that bone when infil- trated with unhealthy lymph, and softened or carious, has but slow power of recovery, and that extirpation of the diseased part is ad- visable. Bone may also be invaded by cancer or other tumours, which render removal necessary. Accordingly there are very few bones in the extremities which have not been removed wholly or in part, and many in the trunk and head. Operations for this end are usually exceedingly difficult and laborious, and are anything but attractive to the lookers on. When the existence of a tumour, or of diseased or dead bone is ascertained, and its extent explored by probes, if there are sinuses which admit of it, a sufficient incision is made through the thickened parts ; and it must be made where the bone is nearest the surface, and where important vessels and nerves are not in the way. Then if there is a shell of new bone it must be bored with trephines, or cut with forceps, or chisel, or gouge; and when the diseased part is exposed, it must be removed as it best may. In cutting it out from any adherent tissues, the knife must be kept close to it. Of the removal of portions of the cramum, and of the upper and lower jaw, we have already spoken. The clavicle has been extirpated by Mr. Travers for a tumour; by Mr. Davie because it pressed on the trachea. (See pp. 248, 311.) The scapula was extirpated by Mr. W. Fergusson from a patient who had previously suffered amputation at the shoulder-joint, and by Mr, Jones, of Jersey, for caries, leaving the .arm still connected with the body, and forming a useful limb ; it has