170 POISON OF SERPENTS. leani, however, from the least romancing of the old writers, that it produced swelling, lividity, and cramps, which were cured by scarifi- cations and wine; and these are just the symptoms it might be ex- pected to cause, and the most rational cure. The effects of the scorpion are similar. There is one very singular case on record, of a gentleman bitten on the penis by a spider, in America, suffering from violent vomiting, deep-seated abdominal pain, and suffocative spasms in con- sequence. He was relieved in thirty-six hours by bleeding, opium, and ammonia.* III. Serpents,—The venom of these animals operates, as Fontana observed, by " destroying the irritability of the nerves, and disposing the humours to speedy corruption." The symptoms produced vary in their nature and degree, according to the species of serpent, its degree of vigour, the frequency with which it may have bitten, and the strength of the sufferer. Some serpents can kill only small animals: the poison of some is very virulent, but soon exhausted by frequent biting: that of others is mild but not easily exhausted; some, again, act so energetically on the nerves, as to cause death speedily by con- vulsions ; others produce inflammation of the lungs; and others, whose venom is insufficient to annihilate the nervous functions at once, kill more slowly by the unhealthy or diffuse inflammation which they excite at the bitten part. Viper.—This is the only poisonous snake in the British Isles, but it is not often that it kills human beings. The properties of its venom were most painfully investigated, in every possible point of view, by the Abb^ Fontana ;t who ascertained that it is a yellow viscous liquid, not inflammable,and neither acid nor alkaline; that it contains no salts; and that it has no taste, except perhaps a slight astringent sensation if it is kept in the mouth for some time. It is not hurtful to another viper, nor does it appear to affect certain cold-blooded animals, as leeches and frogs. Moreover, it is perfectly harmless if applied to any natural mucous or cutaneous surface ; so that large quantities of it have been swallowed with impunity. Cobra di Capello.—Dr. Russell found that this was capable of killing a serpent called Nooni Paragoodo, but not another cobra ; and that its poison was insipid when taken into the mouth, and productive of no ill consequences when applied to the eyes of chickens. The symptoms produced on animals bitten by it are fainting and convul- sions, but no swelling ; the lungs are stuffed with blood.J In the case of a keeper at the Zoological Gardens who was bitten on the root of the nose by a cobra, on the 20th October, 1852, there was no swelling, though there was a slightly-pinkish hue of the eyelids; * Eay, Phil. Trans. 1698, vol. xxi. p. 47; Boccone, Museo di Fisica; Hulse, Am. Journ. Med. Sc., May, 1839; Gozzo, Gaz. Med. 1845, quoted in Ranking, vol. ii. f Felix Fontana, Treatise on the Venom of the Viper, translated by Joseph Skinner, 2nd edit. Lond. 1795. + Patrick Russell, M.D., F.R.S., An Account of Indian Serpents, 2 vols, folio, Lond. 1796. Davy, Physiological Researches, Lond. 1839.