TREATMENT OF 332 the main trunk of the limb at some place between the wound and the heart, where it can be done easily—just, in fact, as an aneurism is treated ? The answer is, Certainly not:—the artery should be secured by two ligatures, one immediately above, and one immediately below the wound; and should not be tied in the trunk above: and the reasons for this rule must be evident enough from the following considei'ations. 1. A trunk may be tied that has no connection with the branch wounded. Thus, in wounds of the upper part of the neck, the trunk of the common carotid has been tied many times when the bleeding vessel has been the vertebral. 2. There is the possibility of high division, or some other unusual distribution of the arteries. 3. The limb below must be supplied with blood, by collateral circulation, else it will mortify. But whenever," to use Mr. Guthrie's words, " this collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the life of the limb, blood must pass into the artery below the wound, and must, as a general rule, pass up and out through the lower end of the divided artery." 4. Gan- grene is very liable to follow if a ligature be placed high up in the thigh, in consequence of a wound. 5. The lower end of a wounded artery is not so quickly and effectually closed by a natural process of cure, as the upper, and is exceedingly liable to yield to the blood that regurgitates into it from below, and to bleed again and again until closed by ligature. Wherever, therefore, an artery may be wounded, it should be secured at the wounded part, if practicable. We say if practicable, because in any case, if a man cannot do the best thing, he must do the best he can.* This will usually be to tie the artery ascertained to be the wounded one as near as possible to the bleeding point; and to re- peat this process at the distal side, if bleeding occurs from that end. (See p. 334.) * The rule of practice is well shown by a case which occurred to Mr. Butcher, of Dublin. A man was deeply stabbed in the right thigh by a knife; profuse and almost fatal hasmorrhage ensued, which ceased, but after thirteen hours returned; the wound 1J inch long, in the long axis of the limb, a little above its middle, right over the sheath of the femoral artery, which was laid bare by it. The artery above being compressed, Mr, Butcher passed his left forefinger into the wound, but could not touch the bottom of it. Then he dilated it upwards and downwards for at least three inches. This allowed him to pass his fore- finger still more deeply along the course of the wound, far 'behind the femoral artery, which lay between the finger and the bone. The tourniquet being slackened, up came a gush of scarlet blood from the very deepest part of the wound. The forefinger being now passed still more deeply in the track of the wound, entered a kind of tendinous slit. This was enlarged, yet the finger could not reach the bleeding point, though the wound was deep enough to bury the fingers and part of the hand. The patient being almost dead, and the least movement or the shifting of the tourniquet impracticable, Mr. Butcher at once secured the common femoral, below Poupart's ligament, by a transverse incision. This checked further bleeding, but the patient died of exhaustion twenty-four hours from the accident. A p. m. showed that the knife had sliced off a portion of the tube of the profunda artery, immediately behind the upper margin of the adductor longus tendon.—On Wounds of Arteries, by Richard G. H. Butcher, Dublin Quarterly Joum. Med. Sc., Aug. 1854,