PNEUMOTHORAX. 527 muscle, and between the sternal and clavicular portions of the left. So soon as the division is complete, the ends of the muscle retract with a dull snap, and the thumb should be pressed on the part, to prevent effusion of blood under the skin. When the wound is healed, but not before, an apparatus should be applied to elongate the callus, and re- store the neck to its proper position. Dr. Little finds that the best way of getting a purchase on the head, so as to keep it in a proper position, is by encircling it round the forehead and occiput with a broad strip of adhesive plaster, and with a bandage over this. Another strip of plaster is put round the waists A tape is then sewn firmly to the bandage and^ plaster which encircle the head, either in front of or behind the ear, according to circumstances, and should be made to pass diagonally across the neck and chest, and be fastened to the waist- band on the opposite side, with the requisite degree of tightness to insure proper rotation of the head. In cases of voluntary retention of the head on one side. Dr. Little has resorted, with advantage, to painful counter-irritation on the other * 3. Lastly, this distortion may be caused by palsy of one sterno- mastoid muscle, in consequence of which, the other muscle, being uncontrolled, drags the neck permanently to its own side. If the administration of remedies calculated to remove any existing disease in the head or back, and to improve the health, and if strychnine, blisters, and electricity fail, division of the sound muscle has been re- commended.f CHAPTER XVI. SURGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE-CHEST. I. Pneumothorax signifies a distension of the cavity of the pleura with air, and collapse of the lung. It is known by the following symptoms:—On the affected side there is an absence of the respiratory murmur, with an exceedingly clear sound on percussion, and im- mobility of the ribs; and there is puerile respiration on the other side. It may be caused, 1, by a fractured rib which has lacerated the lung—and in this case it is attended with emphysema, as has been detailed at p. 271. 2. It may be caused by the bursting of an abscess of the lung into the cavity of the pleura, or by ulceration of the surface. This, if not preceded, is almost sure to be followed by pleurisy with serous effusion. This will be indicated by succussion and by metalUo tinkling, in addition to the signs mentioned above. Succus- * Little on Deformities, Lond. 1853. t Vide Cases of Wryneck, &c., by Dieffenbach, in the Lancet for Sept. 1838. Gooch gives a case of wryneclc and distortion of the jaw caused by contraction of the platysma myoides, and cured by division of that muscle, in the year