TUMOURS OF THE SKIN. 226 clothed with dry, hard cuticle. If necessary to interfere, warts may be snipped off', or tied, or be touched with caustic; but they often return obstinately, in spite of treatment, and disappear of themselves when let alone. Perhaps the best plan is to divest them as much as possible of cuticle, and then cover them with mastic and tannin varnish, F. 183. (2.) A second variety consists of hypertvophied papillae, clothed with thin cuticle, especially apt to come on the inside of the thisjhs, peri- nseum, about the anus, within the prepuce, and in similar situations on and near the genitals of either sex, especially the female. ^omQ are highly vascular, and easily bleed ; some ai e pale and indolent; some broad and flat; some tall and stalked ; all disciiarge a thin sour ichor ; and are caused by the irritation of the discharges of gonori hoea or of syphilis, combined with that of the natural perspiration of uncleanly persons. They may grow on the site of a healed chancre, or mucous patch, or secondary sore. These warts are commonly called venereal warts, because they are doubtless caused by the irritation of venereal discharges; they are contagious, and may produce similar warts in healthy persons. Treatment.—If daily washing with soap and water, and with chloride of zinc lotion, F. 127, does not suffice, the most efficacious plan is to cut off all the morbid growths with the knife or curved scissors; and apply an astringent lotion during the cicatrizing state. If they grow again, tliey may be touched with nitrate of silver, or some escharotic, such as one drachm of muriatic acid with three drachms of muriated tincture of iron ; liquor plumbi diacetatis ; creo- sote, or the acid nitrate of mercuiy. (3.) A third variety is the wart which comes on the face of some other part of the skin of eldeily persons, and, after a time, becomes the seat of epithelioma. With this may be classed the chimney-sweeper's wart of the scrotum, the warty growtlis which are the first stage of so-called cancer, epithelial cancer, or cancroid (or properly speaking, epithelioma), of the lip and penis, and the warty tumour of cicatrices, described by Csesar Hawkins, which begins as a simple wart on the site of an old scar, increases, ulcerates, throws out huge fungous masses ; contaminates the glands, and causes death by the pain and exhaustion of foul ulceration.* See Epithelioma, p. 110. III. Corns are growths of thick cuticle, not merely lying upon the true skin like callosities, but penetrating into it. They are produced when the skin, situated over some projecting point of bone, is irritated by pressure or friction. Their usual seat is on the joints of the toes, and tight boots or shoes are their usual cause. They are divided into two kinds, the hard and the soft. The hard are situated on the sur- face of the foot, where the cuticle can become dry and hard ; the soft between the toes, whei-e the cuticle is soft and spongy. We must ob- serve, however, that what are called soft corns between the toes, are * CjEsar Hawkins, Med. Cbir. Trans, vol. xix.; R. W. Smith, Dublin Quar- terly Jour. Med. Sc. May, 1850; Hannover, Epithelioma, &c.