574: INGUINAL HEKNIA. them after they have been drawn tight. In about eight days the wires are removed; in eight days more the patient may get up and wear a light truss, till the invaginated plug is firmly secured. The appli- cation of this method to ventral hernia will be evident.* Wood's Operation.—In the last place, we come to the operation devised by Mr. John Wood, of King's College Hospital, which the author has seen him execute with the most consummate skill, and the good effects of which he has witnessed in a case in which Wiitzer's operation had failed. Mr. Wood's operation is based upon a principle diametrically opposite to that of Wiitzer, of which he conceives that the principle of dilating the hernial apertures by means of a plug, is erroneous and injurious, not effecting the object proposed, and being moreover calculated to increase the size of the rupture in case of failure to produce a cure. The steps of his own operation are in- tendon and Poupart's ligament are caused to adhere across the cord, and are blended in one mass of adhesion with the invaginated sac and pillars of the superficial ring. The instruments now used by this sui'geon in this operation are very simple, consisting of a small tenotomy knife, and a stout, semicircular needle mounted in a strong handle with a point flattened antero- posteriorly, and adapted rather for splitting the tissues than for cutting through them. The needle is introduced each time unarmed. When the tissues are transfixed, a piece of stout copper wii'e, silvered, about 2 feet long, is hooked on to the eye of the needle, and drawn back with it through the tissues. The steps of the operation are conducted as follows:—The patient being laid on his back with the shoulders well raised and the knees * See Femoral and Ventral Hernia radically cured, by Redfern Davies, Med. Times, Feb. 12, 1859; (four cases of femoral and two of ventral hernia;) Mr. Spencer Wells's case, ib., Feb. 5, 1859. Fig. 10. tended to draw forward the hinder and inner walls of the hernial canal by trans- fixing the conjoined tendon, and to unite it to the front and outer wall by suture, so as to close up the hernial canal entirely. He invagi- nates the hernial sac without including the skin, and by the arrangement of the su- tures draws up its fundus into the deep hernial opening. (See F'ig. 10.) On each side, the pillars of the superficial ring are bound closely to- gether, no skin being suffered to intervene. The conjoined