APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 846 188. Resinous Lotion. R. Tincturae benzoes compositse 3j.; aquas f^ij. Misce. 189. Sir A. Cooper's Prescription for Cancer. R. Ammoniae sesquicarbonatis gr. v.; sodse sesquicarbonatis 3ss.; tincturae calumbae f5j. ; iiifusi gentianse compositi f^ss. Misce, fiat haustus bis die sumendus. 190. Arnica Montana. R. Foliorum arnicse 3ij.; aquas ferventis OiS.; macera per horam, et cola. Dosis ^. R. Florum arnica ^^'ss.; spiritus rectificati Oj.; macera per dies xiv., et cola; vel R. Foliorum arnicas ^ss.; spiritus tenuoris Oj.; macera per dies xiv., et cola. Dose TY^xv.—xxx. In nervous headache, atonic amau- rosis, tinnitus aurium, arid as a local application for muscular stiffness after bruises. See Wilde's Contributions to Aural Surgery, Dublin, 1848. Dr. Garrod has shown that the effect of tincture of arnica in causing absorption of a bruise is precisely that of the spirit contained in it, and no more. 191. Phosphorus Pills. R. Micse panis 3j.; aqu« destillatae quantum satis sit ut fiat massa idonese crassitudinis, dein adde phosphori gvanum unum. Misceantur bene et divide in pilulas xx. Dosis, una ter vel quater die. Di intense nervous debility. Of doubtful efficacy. 192. For Ulceration of the bowels, after fever, in Phthisis, ^c. R. Cupri sulphalis gr. iij. ; pulveris opii gr. jss.; extracti gly- cyrrhizse q. s., ut fiat massa in pilulas vj. dividenda. Sumat unam quartis horis. 193. To melt Nitrate of Silver for the purpose of coating a Probe, or Sound. " Some powdered lunar caustic, from six to twenty grains, is to be moistened with water in a little porphyry dish, boiled up over a spirit lamp, and constantly stirred with a silver knife till the water have evaporated, and the caustic remain fluid in its water of crystallization alone, which may be ascertained by its thin pap-like appearance, and the formation of the crystallization-film. This paste is now to be spread with the spatula on the slightly-heated groove of the caustic- holder, and, when it has cooled, any projection is to be removed with the spatula, or with pumice-stone. Whilst boiling, the caustic flies about smartly, and therefore it is necessary to put on a glove, so that the hand be not spotted with black."—South's Ghelius.