42 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. The carbonate of ammonia is, in the writer's opinion, a specific in severe foi ins of low inflammation; as bronchitis and i heumatism, F. 58. Other remedies there are, as veratrum viride, aconite, &c., reputed to possess antiphlogistic virtues; but the writer has neither faith nor knowledge thereof. Counter-irritants.—Blisteis are the best form of counter-irritants in recent inflammation; but they should nev^er be applied too near the seat of an acute disease, and never till its activity has been subdued by previous antiphlogistic measures. Diet.—There is nothing in inflammation which betokens increase of vital power. Increase of action is one thing; but it no more implies increase of power than lavish expenditure of money implies increase of income. There is therefore no reason why a patient should be starved, merely because he may have an acute inflammation. Yet there are some cases in which low diet is essential; for instance, at the begin- ning of acute idiopathic inflammations of internal organs in young robust persons who have been over-indulging in meat and beer. It should comprise abundance of water, especially with lemon-juice, or alkali in elibrvescence, or Seltzer- or soda-water, or saline draughts, which need not taste of physic ;—besides tea, with milk, gruel, bread, &c. But in sthenic cases so soon as the tongue permits, and in most cases from the beginning, a middle diet may be allowed, comprising beef-tea, or other broth, light milky puddings, vegetables, &c. Whilst in cases of debility, from the first, good beef-tea and wine must be allowed freely, and in ;ill otliers if the pulse becomes soft and fast; and the cheeks, or hands, or feet chilly. Regimen.—There must be a total avoidance of everything that would irritate mind or body. Perfect rest in the recumbent posture, and in a position as easy as it can be made,—cool air,—a quiet and darkened chamber,—with mental consolation, to allay doubts and fears and in- spire resignation and cheerfulness, are most potent aids to medical treatment, which without them would often be utterly fruitless. SECTION IX.—CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. Definition.—Inflammation is said to be chronic when it is slow in its progress, and tends to last long, or even indefinitely. Pathology.—It consists in permanent local hypertemia, with exuda- tion into the interstices of the part affected, or from its surface ; if that be a mucous membrane, the secretion is probably purulent. Causes.—Its causes may be local or constitutional. Thus it may in the healthiest subjects be caused by any slight and continued irritant; —or it may be the sequel of acute inflammation. But more frequently it is the local manifestation of some constitutional disorder, such as general debility,—or over-stimulation and plethora,—or disorder of some important organ, as of the stomach, or liver, or kidney,—and consequent impurity of the blood. Treatment.—The indications are, to remove all constitutional dis-