401 FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. struction on a probe run into it from the sac. For this to be successful, the obstruction should be sufficiently far from the sac to allow of the canal being slit up in the interval through the conjunctiva. When this cannot be effected, there should be made an opening between the sac and the inner corner of the eye, and a fistulous aperture be established by the presence of a foreign body. To ascertain whether there is actual stoppage in the passage, Anel's gold probes may be used. Bowman has also shown that every divergence of the lower punctum from slight eversion of the eyelid, the ]-esult of chronic inflammation of the con- junctiva or disease of the skin of the lid, may produce stillicidium. To remedy this condition, he slits up the canal from the punctum, till the incision reaches that part of the mucous surface on which the tears col- lect or against which they rest. V. Obstruction of the Nasal Duct is most probably a conse- quence of thickening of the mucous membrane that lines it, and is, ac- cording to Mr. Walton, a scrofulous ati'ection not uncommon in delicate young persons. The patient complains of wea/^wess of one eye, which is perpetually watering; and of dryness of the corresponding nostril. The lachrymal sac distended with teai-s and mucus or muco-purulent matter forms a small tumour by the side of the nose, from which the contents can be squeezed upwards through the puncta, or downwards into the nose, if the obstruction be not quite complete. A case is re- lated of complete obliteration of the bony canal of the nasal duct by bony deposit, in which a permanent opening was made from the eye to the nose.* Mr. Walton has lately met with a similar case in the person of a medical man. Obstruction mostly leads to VI. Chronic Inflammation of the Lachrymal Sac —tender- ness of the sac, perhaps redness of the supeijacent skin ; irritability and constant tendency to inflammation of the conjunctiva, with mucous or purulent discharge. There is often great variation in the symptoms in the same case, especially at different seasons of the year; for there may be great sufi'ering in winter, and scarcely any inconvenience in summer. VII. Acute Inflammation of the sac is known by great redness, swelling, pain, and tenderness, at the side of the nose, implicating the eye, and attended with fever and headache. The writer has seen it as a sequel of scarlet fever. If it be not soon relieved the sac will sup- purate and burst. VIII. Fistula Lachrymalis signifies an ugly fistulous aperture at the inner corner of the eye, communicating with the lachrymal sac. It is the ordinary consequence of the three preceding affections, if unre- lieved, and may be said to have five stages. First, it begins with obstruction of the nasal duct; the most prominent symptom of which is a perpetual watering of the eye. Secondly, this is followed by m- flammation ; which, thirdly, gives rise to abscess ; and this, fourthly, by its bursting, causes the fistulous aperture from which the name of _* H. Walton, Med. Times, May 1846. A case is related in Forbes's Eev. xii. 641, of congenital absence of the nasal duct, in which M. Berard succeeded in establishing a communication with the nose. D 2d