82 MORTIFICATION. with a piece of soft lint. The pain which follows is very severe, and the redness and swelling even alarming ; moreover there may be vomit- ing and purging, symptoms which must be met by the administiation of repeated doses of solid opium. At the expiration of a fortnight, if the whole surface were not cauterized at once, a second portion may be attacked in the same way. The eschars are some weeks in separating, and if the surface which remains is unhealthy, it must be destroyed again and again. The chloride of zinc is generally mixed with three or four parts of flour (as used originally by Canquoin), or with two parts of freshly- burned plaster of Paris (as recommended by Mr. Ui-e, who introduced it to the notice of English surgeons). Then it is made into a paste with a few drops of water, spread over the ulcer, and allowed to remain for four or five hours. It is nearly as painful 'as the arsenic. The con- centrated sulphuric acid is also a good caustic. The general health must be improved by the remedies directed for the lupus non exedens, including the cautious and long-continued ad- ministration of arsenic, F. 97. In cases in which cauterization cannot be performed effectually, the general and local palliative treatment are the same as of cancer. CHAPTER XII. MORTIFICATION. SECTION I.—MORTIFICATION IN GENERAL. Definition.—Mortification signifies the death of any part of the body in consequence of disease or injury. Varieties.—Some persons use the terms mortification, gangrene, and sphacelus, indiscriminately; but it is better to signify by sphacelus an utter and in ecoverable loss of life, and to restrict the term gangrene to the state which precedes, and commonly (but not inevitably) termi- nates in sphacelus; and in which perhaps the part may be supposed to be still capable of recovery. Another distinction is made between humid and dry gangrene. The humid is a consequence of inflammation, or of obstacle to the return of the venous blood; and the mortified part, being loaded with fluid effu- sions, soon undergoes decomposition; whilst the dry gangrene is gene- rally a consequence of deficient supply of blood, or of constitutional causes, and is either pieceded by no inflammation at all, or by one so rapid that there is no time for interstitial effusions to occur, so that the mortified part becomes dry and hard. In the humid it is called a slough, in the dry gangrene an eschar. Many kinds of humid gangrene ought rather to be classed under the head of ulcer: as the hospital gangrene, which is the chief example of it, the sloughing ulcer, &c.