FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. 269 together; the elbow must be kept straight and motionless with a splint; leeches and fomentations be used to reduce inflammation; and when the wound is healed, and the joint free from active disease, gentle exercise must be employed to restore it to its proper uses. If the bones are so excessively comminuted as to render it probable that the process of reparation will be tedious and exhausting, excision of the joint should be performed; unless, indeed, the injury is so very severe as to render amputation indispensable. Fracture of the Coronoid Process is very rare. It is caused by the action of the bra- chialis muscle. Mr. Liston gives a case of it which occurred to a boy of eight years old, and was caused by his hanging with one hand from the top of a high wall. This is sometimes attendant upon dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. In this case there is much difficulty in keeping the bones in their proper position. A speci- men of such a fracture with dislocation is in the Museum of King's College. Symptoms. — Difficulty of bending the elbow, and dislocation of the ulna,—the olecranon projecting backwards. Treatment.—The arm must be bandaged, and kept at rest in the bent position. Union will be ligamentous. Fractures of the shafts of the Badius and Ulna, together or singly, are known by the ordinaiy signs of fracture, especially by the crepitus felt on fixing the upper end, and rotating or moving the other. The action of the pronator quadratus, when freed by a fracture of the radius at its middle third, from the opposite and controlling action of the supinator brevis, almost invariably gives a prone position to the hand and wrist. The hand is also usually everted in this injury by the action of the supinator longus upon the lower fragment. In fracture of either bone singly, and especially of both bones togethei-, the lower frag- ments are very apt to be drawn together by the pronator quadratus, so as to obliterate, if not corrected, the interosseous space and prevent the pronating and supinating power so essential to a proper use of the hand. The objects in the treatment are to prevent the fractured ends of either bone from being pressed inwards towards the interosseous space, and to prevent the upper fragment of the radius from being more supinated or everted than the lower. Treatment.—The fracture is easily reduced by extension from the wrist and elbow. Then the elbow being bent, and the forearm placed in a position intermediate between pronation and supination (that is to say, with the thumb uppermost), one splint should be applied to the flexor side, from the inner condyle of the humerus to the fingers' ends ; and another from the outer condyle of the humerus to the back of the * Fracture of olecranon. Ligamentous union. St. Mary's Museum.