409 DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. Vni. Pterygium is a peculiar alteration of the conjunctiva,—a trian- gular portion of which, with the apex towards the cornea, becomes thickened, elevated, red, and fleshy. It may spread over the cornea and obstruct vision ; but it does not cause much inconvenience besides, and is not essentially an inflammatory affection, although it sometimes follows protracted ophthalmia. It is most common in warm climates, such as Calabria: the examples seen in London are chiefly in persons who have returned from the West Indies. The author would suggest the affinity of this growth to the cheloid tumour of the skin. Treatment.—If the disease is increasing, excision should be per- formed. The growth should be seized close to the cornea with tena- culum forceps, should be cut quite across, and be dissected off, towards the internal canthus. But yet, as Mr. Walton directs, that portion which covers the cornea should not be meddled with, because after the operation that will probably waste ; neither should the semilunar fold and caruncle be extirpated. IX. Tumours, such as warts, polypi, fibro-plastic, and even enchon- dromatous growths, may spring from any part of the conjunctiva, whether near the cornea or not. Early excision by curved scissors is the remedy. SECTION VI.—DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. I. Acute Inflammation of the Cornea, or acute keratinitis, is occasionally a consequence of neglected injury. The part becomes red and opaque, the sclerotic around highly vascular ; and ulceration of the cornea, or suppuration between its layers, or abscess of the anterior chamber, may ensue. A few leeches to the temples may be required if the attack be very acute, and fomentations generally afford relief. Small doses of mercury, discontinued or suspended should the gums become tender, will check the progress of the inflammation, but this should be given along with quinine and ammonia, and the diet should be liberal. The treatment of the diseases of this extra-vascular tissue is essentially tonic. Stimulating applications are prejudicial. Turpentine in the dose of one drachm three times a day, in an emulsion with carbonate of soda and mucilage (F. 74), has been recommended. II. Scrofulous Keratinitis, or Corneitis, most frequently occurs between the ages of six and eighteen. Accoi-ding to Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, it is, in the great majority of instances, the result of hereditary syphilis, and is constantly seen in connection with that peculiar stunted and abortive growth of the teeth, which he has traced as a result of syphilitic stomatitis in infancy. Symptoms.— The cornea opaque, rough, and red, and unusually pro- minent ; the surrounding sclerotic also red; pain and intolerance of light ai-e generally trivial; there is some tendency to inflammation of the iris and retina; the pulse is frequent, and the skin dry. Treatment.—For the acute, purgatives and fomentations. For the chronic, quinine, iron, and cod-liver oil, perseveringly administered; blisters repeatedly applied to the temples and behind the ears ; iodide of