BRONCHOCELE. 522 occupies the front of the neck, in the situation and of the shape of the thyroid gland. It is "rarely tender, and the skin is not discoloured. Frequently one lateral lobe is larger than the other ; and occasionally the middle lobe or isthmus is solely or principally affected. Consequences.—When of moderate bulk, it rarely causes any incon- venience, except occasional headache, and difficulty of breathing in a stooping posture. But when very large, it may produce a most dangerous difficulty of swallowing and breath- ing, and congestion in the head by its pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, and jugular veins ;f or it may induce thickening and disease of the trachea, with most obstinate cough, which may end in con- sumption. Prognosis.—If it be soft and recent, and occur in a. young patient, it will most likely be cured ; but pro- bably not if it be old, hard, and the patient advanced in life. Anatomy.—The disease begins, probably, with hypertrophy of the natural gland structure, and concurrent formation of cysts. The gland structure nearly resem- bles that of the secretory glands; that is to say, consists of pouches of pellucid membrane, containing nuclei and nucleated cells; although not provided, like the secretory glands, with ducts. The cysts are developed in the interstices of the gland structure, and often have growths of it sprouting frohi their walls. Some cysts attain large size, and are filled with glairy matter, more or less solid: in very old cases earthy deposit may be formed. Other cysts which contain blood, or a bloody liquid, are probably the remains of dilated veins. % (See pp. 107, 351.) Causes.—Bronchocele is what is termed an endemic disease: that * From the King's College collection. The oesophagus is seen to be pushed to the right side by the tumour. t Mr. Howship gives a case of bronchocele with the jugular vein passing through its substance. The patient suffered greatly from congestion in the head. J Vide Baillie's Morbid Anatomy, by Wardrop, 2nd ed , p. 84, and Turner's Art of Surg., vol. i., p. 198. The second cut exhibits a preparation in the Middlesex Hospital Museum. The tumour is full of earthy deposit.