16 HYPERTROPHY. ring to the foetus, which produce within the womb the same effects that they would produce at any other period of life. Such ai-e the con- genital club-foot, and dislocation of the hip; and those very curious instances of spontaneous amputation, so called, in which one of the limbs of the foetus becomes tightly entangled in a loop of the navel-string, or in an accidental band of lymph, and is strangulated and cut off in consequence.* III. Hypertrophy.—This term signifies not merely an increase of bulk, or swelling of an organ, but an increase in size, depending on an increase in its healthy structure. Genuine hypertrophy, too, is usually attended with increased development; that is, with the unfolding of a higher order of structure, so that the liypei trophied organ acquires new and greater powers. It is often a healthy and conservative process, whereby the hypertrophied organ is enabled to do more than its or- dinary share of duty, and to compensate for some deficiency in some other part of the economy. " The causes are," as Mr. Paget observes, *' chiefly these three. 1. The increased exercise of a part in its natural functions ; 2. An in- creased supply of healthy blood; 3. An increased accumulation in the blood of the particular materials which any part appropriates in its nutrition, or in secretion."' (1.) Instances of hypertrophy from the first cause specified are aflbrded by tlie bladder, which, in cases of obstruction to the passage of urine, becomes greatly more capacious, with its mucous and muscular coats developed into a state of greater power, fitting them for the in- creased pressure they are obliged to bear and to exert;—by the cuticle, thickened by pressui-e and friction; and by the bursge developed, under like conditions, in the areolar tissue. (2.) Instances of hypei trophy from increased supply of healthy blood are aflbrded by the growths of hair which sometimes take place in the skin in the neighbourhood of ulcers; and by the elongation of one of the bones of a limb of a growing child, which sometimes occurs when a vascular ulcer of the skin, or disease of an adjoining portion of bone, has for a considerable time caused an unusually copious current of blood to circulate in the vicinity. (3.) Hypertrophy caused by a particular condition of the blood is exemplified in the increase of one kidney, which occurs when the other is incompetent, through disease or injury, to abstract its share of urinary matter from the blood. The ossifications which take place in the legs of certain breeds of horses are owing probably to the same cause, so perhaps is goitre ; the obesity of great eaters certainly is, (4.) Lastly, hypertrophy may arise from some disturbance of the forces of growth or development, whereby a portion of a bone, or of the fatty tissue, will grow disproportionately to the rest of the body. What the nature of the force is which presides over growth in * See case by the Author, Obstetrical Trans., vol. ii. p. 135, of obliteration of portions of the small intestine by bands of lymph, from peritoneal inflammation iu the foetal state.