126 GENEEAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOUES FEOM CANCEE. almost insensible to the touch, yet painful. A foetid serous discharge is liable to ooze from the skin ; or ulcers ma}'^ form, and if not very extensive, may diminish the pain, and seem to eliminate a something noxious. Treatment.—The usual thing proposed is the knife; but Mr. Dalton has shown that in the earlier stages the disease may be at least controlled, if not checked. The remedies he proposes are, first, a course of thorough eliminatives, purgatives, and emetics ; followed by tonics. Afterwards, th« limb should be thoroughly and tightly bandaged. Fomentations with astringent decoctions and lotions; the preparations of iodine, diuretics, and a small issue on the outside of the thigh are the remedies for the later stages. SECTION XI.—GENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS FROM CANCER. The Diagnosis of cancer implies—1, its distinction from other tu- mours in the living body, which is chiefly based upon its uncircum- scribed and adherent nature, and the severe and increasing pain and cachexia, which are sure to be present, if it has existed any time, or if it exists in many separate organs ; 2, its distinction anatomically after removal; and here it must be remembered that although the irregular outline, shape, and size of the cells as seen under the microscrope, con- taining a variable number of nuclei, easily separable from each other, readily squeezed out into the fluid forming the cancerous juice, and arranged in the meshes of a fibrous stroma, more or less abundant, taken with the other physical characters and symptoms, may enable the surgeon to decide that the case is one of cancer; yet there are many giowths of rapid formation in which only very small and immature cells or nuclei may be seen, which often turn out to be undoubted cancer, and of the most rapidly fatal kind. The student who wishes to ascertain the microscopic nature of a tumour should first carefully note its consistence, colour, and general appearance. Then he should divide it by a clean incision, and note carefully whether any liquid exudes from the cut surface, with or with- out the aid of slight pressure. If a milky or gruelly juice exudes, easily mixable with water, this must be carefully searched to determine the nature of the solid substances which give the milky appearances. They may be pus, or granular corpuscles, or epithelium; but if, on repeated examination, they present the well-marked characters oi' cancer cells, or nuclei, the diagnosis may be considered as tolerably certain, especially if it coincides with the general symptoms. If no juice is yielded, the tumour may be examined in sections. 1. Infiammatory induration is infiltrating and adherent, but never causes so hard, lumpy, and distinct a tumour as cancer. It contains fibro-plastic, or pus-cells. 2. Soft cancer may present such apparent fluctuation as to be mis- taken for abscess; but its greater elasticity and inequality of surface may serve as distinctions.