638 UEINARY DEPOSITS. and it is in much greater quantity, and often in larger and more irregu- lar clots than when derived from the kidneys; moreover, the pain in the back, and other signs of renal irritation that accompany bleeding from the kidney, will not be present. Treatment.—When hsemorrhage from the kidneys is attended with inflammatory symptoms, cupping, purging, and the acetate of lead are indicated ; when with symptoms of debility, the dilute sulphuric acid, alum, tinct. ferri muriatis, or gallic acid. Cold may be applied to the loins and hips by means of bladders of ice. In hsemorrhage from the bladder a catheter should be passed and be retained, in order to pre- vent both accumulation of blood in the bladder and straining efforts at micturition. If the hemorrhage is obstinate, the bladder may be in- jected with cold water containing a scruple of alum to each pint; and if much blood have coagulated in the bladder, it may be necessary to break it down by r epeated injections of water. Small doses of turpen- tine will sometimes check a hasmorrhage from the bladder, which re- sists all other means. Vll. Suppression of Upjne {Ischuria Renalis),—When the kid- neys have been long abused by inordinate indulgence in strong drink, and are falling into disease, or when they have become diseased, they are liable suddenly to lose their function of secreting the urine. The consequence of this is, that the urea and other elements of the urine accumulate in the blood ; the patient complains of great uneasiness in the head and loins; he becomes first drowsy, and then comatose, and dies in four or five days. This affection is alluded to here in order to hint at the diagnosis between it and retention of urine. In suppres- sion, if the catheter is introduced, the bladder will be found empty ; whereas in retention, whether from stricture, or from diseased prostate, or from palsy of the bladder, it may be felt full and distended above the pubes. SECTION Vlll.—URINARY DEPOSITS OR GRAVEL.* In the urine are washed away the refuse matters derived from diges- tion, assimilation, and the wear and tear of the body. Any deviation, therefore, from a healthy state of digestion and nutrition is sure to be followed by a deviation from the healthy properties of the urine. So extensive and complicated is the chemical and physiological history of these changes, that we can but refer to the woi'ks of Prout, Liebig, Golding Bird, Bence Jones, Owen Rees, Garrod, Hassall, Lionel Beale, and George Harley, and must confine ourselves to the immediate bearings of the subject on surgical practice. We may observe that when the surgeon examines the urine, since it varies extremely in its properties at various hours of the day, the whole * For information on the subject of tbis and the following sections, consult Prout on Stomach and Urinary Disease; Garrod, Lancet, 1849; Bence Jones, Lancet for 1850, vol. i.; Brodie on Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 3rd edition ; Golding Bird on Urinary Deposits, 3rd edit.; Hassall, Lancet, 1850-53; Lionel Beale on Urine, Urinaiy Deposits, and Calculi, 2nd edit. 1864 ; Dr. G. Harley's Lectures in Med. 'J'imes and Gaz., 1864.