451 CANCER OF THE EYE. unhealthy or tuberculous lymph may occur in the depth of the eye, and present all the outward and visible signs of a cancerous growth. In fact, the diagnosis of such a growth is considered by the best authori- ties to be impossible, until time reveals whether the eye is to burst be- fore a protruding fungus, and the health to exhibit the decay consequent on the extension of cancer ; or whether, on the other hand, the eyeball is, 1, to remain blind but unaltered ; or, 2, to be the seat of scrofulous suppuration ; or, 3, to waste and become atrophied ; one of which three contingencies usually results when this peculiar appearance is the result of injury or of slow inflammation in a scrofulous subject. 3. Melanotic cancer is common in this situation, Lebert having found it in }^ cases: it may primarily affect the orbit, conjunctiva, or optic nerve, but, curiously enough, has not been found primarily in the iris or choroid, where it might naturally have been expected. Mela- notic cancer pursues the course of soft cancer, but perhaps more ra- pidly. Protrusion of a tumour exuding a darkish sepia-like fluid, and a great multiplicity of organs affected with secondary deposits, are leading features. There is at present considerable confusion existing in the use of the term melanosis, which is often used as if synonymous with cancer. But, as we have before observed, melanotic cancer is true soft cancer, combined and infllti ated with large quantities of black pigment. On the other hand, collections of black pigment may exist in natural and morbid structures without cancer. Patches of black pigment may be found, and may remain for years on the conjunctiva unaltered. 4. Cancer may commence on the conjunctiva in the form of small vascular tumours, which soon display the characters of soft cancer, or the dusky hue of melanosis. Scirrhus is treated of by authors, but is extremely rare. Cancer, likewise, may affect the caruncle, constituting the disease formerly called encanthis. 5. It may also affect the lids ; but here we must note the not un- frequent occurrence in aged persons of epithelioma on the lower lid; commencing as a wart, lasting an indefinite time, but, if irritated, terminating in incurable ulceration ; yet altogether different from can- cer in structure, and giving much more hope from extirpation. Secondly, of a glassy ulcer of the lupus kind. Treatment.—The treatment of cancer of the eye comprises two classes of measures: 1, the various palliatives mentioned in the Section on Cancer; 2, extirpation, which latter is also to be regarded as palliative, since, in cancer of the eye, the disease (if not already developed within the cranium) is sure to appear there or elsewhere. It seems to be the general opinion of surgeons that it is useless to extirpate soft cancer of the eyeball, especially in children ; but that, in melanotic cancers, the extirpation of the contents of the orbit affords a greater chance of prolonging life ; and that all superficial cancerous tumours of the conjunctiva should be freely extirpated as soon as possible. III. Extirpation of the Eye is required occasionally, not only for cancer but for disorganizing suppuration, and other diseases which