302 ANCHYLOSIS. SECTION V.—ANCHYLOSIS. Anchylosis signifies a fusion or union of the ends of bones, and is a frequent consequence of serious injuries and diseases of joints ; there- fore, whenever it is likely to happen, the affected joint should be placed in the position which will be the least inconvenient for it to preserve. The elbow should be placed at a right angle; the wrist straight; the hip and knee a very little bent; and the ankle at a right angle to the leg. Moreover, in almost every case of diseased joint, unless the surgeon is on his guard to prevent it, the patient will put it into a bent position, in which it will remain till the extensor muscles are almost paralyzed, and the flexors shortened and inextensible. The continued traction of these muscles aids in disorganizing the joint and dislocating one bone from another, as is constantly seen in disease of the knee and hip. There are three varieties of anchylosis:— 1. The spurious ov false anchylosis, which depends on thickening of the synovial membrane, and organization of bands of adhe- sion around the joint, gluing the various structures to the skin and to each other. 2. Ligamentous anchylosis signifies the union of two arti- cular surfaces by fibrous tis- sue ; and some degree of it almost inevitably follows in any case in which recovery takes place, after destruction of cartilage. 3. Bony when fibrous tissue so pro- duced ossifies. Treatment—It is very evi- dent that nothing ought to be 1 done until all diseased action has ceased, and the parts have returned to a quiescent state. Then measures may be taken for restoring the power of mo- tion. 1st. There is the category of slow and gentle measures, consisting of passive motion, combined with friction, shampooing, and local steam- baths. By passive motion is meant, that some person shall take ihe affected limb and gradually bend and extend the stiff joint with just force enough to cause a little yielding, and little or no pain. A screw, * This cut sbows the results of long-continued disease of the ankle-joint. The bones are completely welded together by bony anchylosis.