766 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. the lower, and midway between the inner edge of the tibia and the inner border of the tendo Achillis. It is often impossible to avoid cutting through the internal saphena vein. The fascia covering the edge of the tendo Achillis must be divided on a director. A second fascia, the deep one of the tendo Achillis, is often met with, and must be treated in like manner. Whether one or two of these structures be seen, depends on the line of the incision, for at a little distance from the tibia, the two are, to use an anatomical expression, blended. The artery, surrounded more or less by fat, which is a peculiarity in this situation, will be found along the inner edge of the flexor longus digi- torum, accompanied by its two veins. The nerve is to the outer side. It must be remembered that, in the upper part of the leg, the posterior tibial nerve lies to the inner or tibial side of tlie artery ; it soon, how- ever, passes over, and inferioi ly lies to its outer or fibular side. To tie the Posterior Tibial at the ankle.—The vessel is here com- paratively superficial. An incision is made two and a half inches long, in the groove, midway between the anterior edge of the internal malle- olus and the extremity of the heel, commencing near the tendo Achillis. The superficial fascia having been divided, the strong and dense fascia which adheres to the sheaths of the tendons, and covers the vessels and nerves in this situation (which is, in fact, the internal annular liga- ment), must be very carefully divided on a director, as well as the origin of the abductor pollicis; and the artery should be looked for, sur- rounded by the vense comites. The following is the order of the muscles, vessels, and nerves in this situation :—The tendons of the tibi- alis posticus and flexor digitorum communis are close to the malleolus internus. At about a quarter of an inch external and a little more superficial, there is the posterior tibial artery, on each side of which is a vein; close outside is the posterior tibial nerve, and half an inch nearer to the heel is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Much pains should be taken to avoid opening the bursse around the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum respectively, or in- terfering with the sheath of the flexor longus pollicis. The line of in- cision advised is, on this account, to be preferred to that in a circular form around the malleolus, or that parallel to the tendo Achillis. IV. The Peroneal Artery.—The trunk of this vessel is often absent, its place being supplied by branches from the posterior tibial artery. Sometimes, on the contrary, it is very large at the lower part of the leg, and supplies the place of the posterior tibial. To tie it, an :ncision should be made four inches long, almost in the centre of the leg, being about half an inch nearer the upper part, and an inch behind the external edge of the fibula. The border of the soleus is to be sought for and separated fjom the peronei which encircle the outer side of the fibula, and it may be requisite to detach a portion of this muscle from the fibula, to expose the flexor longus pollicis ; the fibres of which must be separated longitudinally, first with the director, then with the handle of the scalpel, and the artery sought for about the centre, where it will be near the edge of the fibula. At the lower portion of the in-