GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 139 It is rare for round shot to lodge themselves, yet a case occurred in the Balaklava action in which a six-pound shot was found lodged in a man's ham, with comparatively little distortion of the limb. Much has been said of the effects of the vnndage of balls, that is, of injuries supposed to be produced by balls going near without touch- ing, and ascribed to a current of air accompanying the ball. But later experience has shown the fallacy of all the views once enter- tained on this subject. Men's clothes have been torn, and even their caps carried off their heads by round shot, without producing any injury worth mentioning.* Shells.—If a shell strikes -anything before its explosion, it pro- duces etl'ects similar to those of round shot. After it has burst, the wounds inflicted by its fragments are not so severe as those of cannon- shot, although they certainly rank next in the amount of damage they produce. The large, irregular masses of i]'on often cause the most fearful contusions and lacerations of the tissues, and comminution of the bones. The extent of mischief produced by them may be estimated by the fact that during the late war the bursting of one howitzer shell caused ten admissions into the hospital of the 18th regiment, and that of the men so admitted seven lost an arm or leg. Musket Shot.—The largest number of v/ounds in any engagement is from musket balls. Until the late war, the old round leaden ball, fired from a plain or rifled barrel, was the only one in common use. Now, however, its place has been supplied by the conical ball, in our own and most of the continental armies, including those of our late enemies the Russians. As our men were wounded by both kind of balls, there were ample means of testing their destructive capacities. The conical balls being projected with much greater rapidity, are capable of passing through one or two men, and lodging themselves in the body of a third. They did not appear to deviate from their course to the extent that the old balls sometimes did. What they struck they usually per- forated, in some cases drilling through bones, in others producing severe comminuted fractures. They lodge much less frequently than the round ones, and are far more destructive as instruments of warfare. Again, the ball may, if the force is nearly expended, lodge in the cancellous tissue of a bone, and form for itself a kind of chamber, in which it may be easily moved, but from which it is with great diffi- culty extracted. Sometimes a ball will strike a bone longitudinally, and channel a long groove without fracturing the bone. Grape Shot produce wounds like those from round shot, only, as they are much smaller, so the injuries they inflict are less severe. * " A shot ricochetted with great force over one of the parapets, carrying away the cap from a seaman's head. The man was a little stunned, but no further mischief ensued. When his cap was picked up, it contained a handful of hair, which had been shaved from the scalp by the shot. This would have been a 'poser' for the old wind-contusionists." Account of the wounded in the recent bombardments of Sebastopol, by D. J. Duigan, Esq., Surgeon R.N., at- tached to the Naval Brigade.—il/ed Times and Gazette, Sept. 8, 1855.