OVAKIOTOMY. 539 by surgeons who do not hesitate,io recommend operations still more dangerous, for the removal of diseases not immediately fatal; as, for example, ligature of the innominata artery for aneurism ; an operation that always proved fatal till the year 1864. Out of 106 cases, Mr. Spencer Wells has preserved the lives of 70—a mortality of 1 in 3—a result more favourable than that of the larger amputations, herniotomy, or lithotomy in the adult. Dr. Clay, 110 operations, 76 recoveries. Mr. Baker Brown has perfoimed complete ovariotomy in 68 cases, with 28 deaths and 40 recoveries. 2ndly, that no other plan of tieat- ment can effect a radical cure, but that by this, according to Clay's tables, 23 women, relieved of a burden which made life miserable, have married and borne children. 3rdlv, at any late, there is one rule which ought in all fairness to be applied to the results of individual operators. One man esteems it a duty to give his patient a chance, though the case be an unpromising one ; another selects only'promising cases; still the average of two-thirds of recoveries is hopeful. 4thly, that if the surgeon, in order to complete his diagnosis, makes a small incision, to ascertain the existence of adhesions, and closes it again with suture if he finds this to be the case, no great harm is likely to result : in fact, this, which is sometimes raked up as an opprobrium against operators, is a perfectly justifiable measure. Lastly, that it is by far the most merciful plan of treatment, if adopted early, in patients other- wise healthy, with a still growing but nonadherent tumour. In a field where so many have distinguished themselves, it would be impossible to mention all, and unfair to select a few of those who have acquired celebrity for their skill and success in this operntion; yet the writer cannot refrain from adducing the names of Mr. Lane, Dr. Clay, Mr. Southam, Mr. Walne, Dr. Fiederic Bird, Mr. Jeaffreson of Framlingham, Mr. West, Mr. Ciouch of Bruton, Mr. L B. Brown, Dr. Tanner, Mr. Hutchinson, Mr. Bryant, Dr. Tyler Smith, Dr. Keith, and Mr. Spencer Wells. The surgeon who proposes to himselt to perform this operation, should make certain, 1st, that a tumour exists, and that it is ovarian; 2ndly, that the tumour is increasing, and likely to destroy life, if allowed to remain. No one would interfere with a stationary tumour. 3rdly, that the increase of the tumour is not arrested by tapping, mo- deiate pressure, and iodine or iron. One tapping is often expedient, as a means of diagnosis, because if the empty sac subsides into the pelvis, it is a guarantee against extensive adhesions. 4thly, that the disease is not cancerous. Cancer may be suspected if the tumour has begun early in life, is increasing very fast, and is adherent, and if there is great pain, and decay of health and strength. 5thly, that the general health is such as would be desired in any patient who was to undergo a capital operation ; lastly, he should ascertain whether there are exten- sive adhesions to the abdominal parietes or viscera. This he may do in some measure by noticing whether the tumour shifts its place as the patient rolls herself from side to side, and also by a very ingenious test which the author has seen used by Dr. F. Bird ; namely, by putting