203 CHANCRE. deep red ; "malignant ugly chancres on prepuce and glans," looking like holes made by a rusty nail in a piece of mahogany; skin hot, pulse sharp, tongue white, eyes red, &c. Copious bleeding, cold lotions, and neutral salts as purgatives speedily reduced the tumefaction ; in a few days the sores were in a state of healthy suppuration, and doubtless, says Fergusson, " would have healed safely without mer- cury had either the patient's fears or my responsibility permitted me to run the risk." This was char] j chayicroid, plus local inflammation, and required no mercury. Syphilitic chancre has more than four days' incubation. In cases occurring to dirty and broken-down drunkards, and not to young robust men, it is usually the safest plan to slit up the prepuce; cleanse the inner surface with a syringe ; apply poppy decoc- tion, and weak astringent lotions; purge freely and give opium. 2. Phagedccna.—The chancroid is, as Mr. Acton observed, very nearly allied to phageda;na, but some so)-es present all the cha- racters of phagedaena or slouching phagedaena, mentioned at p. 76, spreading rapidly, painful, with profuse sanious discharge, and some diphtheritic exudation. This may depend on some acrimony in the discharge which produced the sore ; or on the influence of tilth, intem- perance, &c. 3. Serpiginous sores are those which partake of the nature of lupus non exedens, wandering interminably over the surface of the abdomen or thigh, and healing in one direction whilst they spread in another* In all these atonic varieties of ulceration, opium must be given in doses large enough to allay pain, bark, mineral acids, steel, and liberal diet to support the strength. Kicord recommends the potassio-tartrate of iron in doses of gr. x. thrice daily. The local applications may be soothing, as F. 120-122; antiseptic, as F. 117, 127; astringent, as F. 128,130, 131; or mercurial, as the black-wash, which certainly is one of the most healing applications possible:—but the calomel fumiga- tion, locally applied, is probably the most efficacious remedy known for all indolent cachectic sores and eruptions whatever. It has long been observed that locally destructive ulcers of the class we now treat of, are not necessarily followed by secondary symptoms, unless in the cases in which they are superadded to true chancre. SECTION V.—CHANCRE, General Description.—This, the starting-point of true syphilis, is usually much less formidable than the chancroid. Its most usual seat is the genitals, yet it may be met with on the lips, fingers, and elsewhere. There may be a considerable period of incubation after ap- plication of the poison, before the effects are pi-oduced, or discovered, usually fourteen, sometimes foi ty dnys. Symptoms.—Chancre presents many A^arieties. There may be no ulcer at all; only a raised pimple, with some exfoliation of cuticle: or a mere excoriation, or fissure, or shallow smooth ulcer not perforat- ing the whole thickness of the skin. The distinctive sign is an abruptly circumscribed induration, like that of a little bit of cartilage. Ulcer-