293 CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. useful applications for the convalescent stage of this and other chronic diseases of joints. It is applied thus: the surface of the joint, having first been washed with camphorated spirit, should be covered with the ointment thickly spread on lint; next, adhesive plaster should be evenly applied in strips, so as to form a complete casing for the joint ; and lastly, a bandage. When the knee is bandaged in this way the adhesive straps should be arranged so as not to press too tightly on the patella. Supposing, after inflatmnation has subsided, the joint is left stiff,—the knee, for example, in a half-bent state—a process of very gradual extension may be set about by means of splints with a screw attached ; but the greatest care must be taken not to light up a fresh inflammation. III. Abscess in Joints.—If after acute or chronic inflammation, a joint becomes very much distended, and somewhat cedematous, and there is constant pain unmitigated by remedies, with rigors, a quick pulse, and considerable constitutional excitement, suppuration of the synovial membrane may be fairly suspected. The first thing to be done under these circumstances is to make a puncture with a grooved needle, and examine the fluid that exudes. If it is serum, two or three more punctures may be made, and an exhausted cupping-glass be applied over them ; and by these means the part may be very safely and expeditiously relieved of a considerable quantity of fluid. If it is pus, a free opening should be made, so that the matter may run out easily; the joint should be placed on a splint in the most easy and convenient posture: the general health should be amended by tonics, alteratives, and proper diet; and then, in favourable cases, a cure will be effected by anchylosis. But if the suppuration and constitutional disturbance increase, the limb must be amputated, or the joint excised. In the elbow joint, excision should be always performed. In favourable cases the same operation may be practised in the shoulder, knee, and hip joints. Purulent depots in Joints.—It has been mentioned in several pre- vious chapters, that a rapid effusion of puriform fluid into the joints and other parts is a frequent occurrence in puerperal fever, erysipelas, and other cases in which the blood is contaminated by a morbid poison. The part becomes red and painful, and very soon afterwards is found to be filled with pus. The only local treatment consists of a free incision in a depending position, and a splint with a bandage to prevent ac- cumulation of matter.—See Fycemia. IV. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis {Nodosity of the Joints) is a disease characterised by peculiar alterations of all the tissues of one or more joints. Joint cavities are enlarged and made hollower. The heads of bones are irregularly enlarged, and flattened ; with overhanging mushroom-like borders, and often a great variety of projections and pedunculated exostoses around. The cartilage, as we learn from Mr. William Adams, seems to take the first step in the morbid process, be- coming greatly hypertrophied, and afterwards ossifying. Yet wherever it is exposed to friction, the covering of cartilage is generally worn