WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. 367 the actual cautery, and the outward application of chloroform, generally afFoi'd some relief, and sometimes completely cure. Division of the nerves, with or without excision of a portion, is the last and a very bad resource It may produce instant ease: this, however, lasts but a short time ; and the oftener it is repeated the more transient are its effects. Sometimes, after repeated divisions, the pain is as severe as ever, although the part may become quite numb and insensible to the touch. The infra-orbital and mental nerves (which may be divided from within the mouth just as they escape from their foramina), the frontal, the radial, just after it has passed between the supinator tendon and the bone, and the digital, are those which have been most fre- quently operated upon. VI. Anomalous Nervous Affections.—The same local and con- stitutional causes that gave rise to neuralgia, may also occasion every other symptom that can be produced by functional nervous disorder; such as rigid and permanent spasm (as in wry neck), or twitching and convulsion of muscles ; difficulty of swallowing and performing eva- cuations, owing to spasms of the oesophagus, of the sphincter ani, or of the perineal muscles; sneezing, dumbness, stammering, thirst, and affections of the sight and hearing. The treatment must be conducted on the same principles. CHAPTER X. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. SECTION I.—WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. Wounds and contusions of the scalp, be they ever so slight, are not to be neglected. For they may be followed by erysipelas, or by inflam- mation and suppuration under the occipito-frontalis, or within the cranium, or by suppuration of the veins of the diploe, and general pyaemia, that may easily prove fatal. Wounds should be accurately and quickly closed; but first of all, care should be taken to wash away all foreign bodies and clots with clean water, and a bit of clean old linen, or a clean sponge. The writer will say, once for all, that sponges that have been used to wipe up foul discharges should never be used for recent wounds, particularly of the scalp. No part of the scalp, however torn or bruised, should be cut away. Cases are known in which almost the whole scalp has been stripped fiom the bone, and yet has been laid in its place, and the patient has perfectly recovered. It is wise not to use stitches if it can be avoided. Neither are they usually necessary; for the wounds may be controlled by plasters and bandages. If used, they need not go through the whole thickness of the scalp. It is a good plan to seal