601 STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. narrow, flattened fragments; and on examination the stricture may in ordinary cases be readily felt. Irritation'of the bladder and uterus, and pains or cramps in the leg, with headache and dyspepsia, are occasional additional symptoms. If this affection be unrelieved, it leads to ulceration of the rectum above the stricture, with a consequent aggravation of all the symptoms, and death from irritation. Treatment.—The remedies are aperients and injections so as to pro- duce daily soft unirritating stools, and the bougie. A bougie, capable of being passed with moderate facility through the stricture, should be introduced once in three or four days, and be allowed to remain fifteen or twenty minutes; and its size should be gradually increased when a larger one admits of being passed. An improved bougie is one in- vented by Mr. Partridge, made of a short cylinder of smooth metal, mounted upon a slender handle, so that the sphincter is not painfully distended. Mr. Wood uses a bougie with a thick end and a slender stem, with an /-like curve, to follow the normal sweep of the bowel and to give that forward direction to the point of the mstrument which the rectum has in its upper part. (See fig.) When the stricture is placed high, this curve very much lessens the danger of perforating the coats ot the bowel below the stricture. The curved bougie is introduced with the upper concavity directed backward as far as the lower third. It is then gradually turned forward as in the " tour de maitre " with the catheter. Instruments of every sort introduced into the rectum should be handled with the utmost gentleness. Nothing is gained by forcing a large bougie through a stricture. The cure is to be effected by the repeated and gentle stimulus of pressure, so as to excite absorption, not by mere mechanical dilatation. There are numerous fatal instances on record in which the bowel has been torn by bougies, and by that most dangerous and loathsome instrument, the common clyster syringe, in the hands of careless or ignorant people. For the administration of enemata, the pipe should be only an inch and a half in length, with a large bulbous extremity. Or if in cases of stricture, or of obstinate costiveness with great accumulation of fasces, or of incai'cerated hernia, it is desirable to introduce a tube further, it should be quite flexible like that of a stomach-pump. But the natural sharp fold at the junction of the rectum with the sigmoid flexure, and the fact shown by Mr. Earle that the bowel not unfrequently makes a horizontal curve to the right before descending into the pelvis, render the introduction of bougies into the sigmoid flexure a very blind, hazardous proceeding, and one that is not often to be justified. Moreover the surgeon must be on his guard lest he fall by inadvertence into another error. That is to say, he must not pronounce his patient to have a stricture merely