ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 196 are very young, or who possess irritable or scrofulous constitutions. In such cases it may be attended with extreme fever and constitutional disturbance, and may even prove dangerous to life by leading to exten- sive abscesses in the neighbourhood of the bladder.* But after repeated attacks, the urethra becomes, as it were, inured to the disease, and each subsequent infection is generally (although not always) attended with fewer of the symptoms of acute inflammation. In some instances the constitutional affection is extremely anomalous, and characterised by severe and continuous rigors. Gonorrhoea sicca.—There is one form of gonorrhoea which is occa- sionally met with in the male, and Mr. Acton has often met with it in the female, in which the mucous membrane is red, swollen, and tender, but the discharge scanty, flaky, or wanting. In the male, there are severe scalding and pain in making water, with painful erections, and the lips of the urethra are red and swelled. This form of disease has the popular name of the dry clap. Causes.—Suppurative inflammation of the urethra may be caused by, 1. Local irritation of any sort, especially immoderate and pro- tracted sexual indulgence, and the introduction of bougies. 2. Disorders of the constitution, gout, rheumatism, lithic and oxalic gravel. 3. Dis- charges are sometimes occasioned by the use of particular medicines, as guaiacum and cayenne pepper. 4. By unhealthy secretions of even chaste women. Thus—(rt) The menstrual fluid is capable of causing urethritis with violent scalding and chordee, and followed by swelled testicle; and a considei able degree of irritation may be produced by the vaginal secre- tions, just previous to menstruation.f (6) Similar consequences sometimes ensue if the female be affected with any discharge whatever ; or if connection occurs during the later stage of pregnancy. We believe that all purulent discharges are contagious. But the most actively contagious poison is the pus proceeding from genital organs, acutely in- flamed by preceding contagion. This is the cause of the true gonorrhoea virulenta. The inflammations of the urethra have the most perfect analogy with those of the conjunctiva. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the simple gonorrhoea, that is, of dis- charge not arising from sexual connection, or which a man contracts from some accidental malady in a clean, chaste woman, is well summed up by Mr. Bacot in these words:—" If a discharge come on only a few hours after connection, and if it have continued several days without inflammatory symptoms; if the patient has been liable to some dis- charge after any excess of venery or of wine; in all such cases the pro- bability is that the patient labours under some other diseased condition of the urethra, and that although the intercourse of the sexes may have been the exciting cause, still there may be no imputation on the cleanliness of the female.''^ The time at which the disease usually appears after contagion is the * For cases, vide Judd, op. cit., p. 70. f Judd, p. 24. + Bacot, op. cit., p. 101.