542 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. pedicle; and even then, some single vessels may require to be tied. The remaining ovary should be examined, and if diseased may be re- moved ; but the patient should not needlessly be spayed. One steady assistant should take chaige of the edges of the wound, holding them close to the cyst, so that the bowels shall not protrude between; flannels steeped in water at 98° should be at hand to protect them if need be* The patient should be kept thoroughly warm during the operation, by flannel stockings, and bottles of hot water to the feet; and the abdomen be afterwards padded with the softest cotton wool, and sup- ported by a many-tailed or Indian bandage. Morphia may be ad- ministered in regular small doses, to procure sleep by night and ease by day. Sickness and thirst may be allayed by sucking ice. The diet should be good, consisting of soup, light pudding, and wine or brandy and soda water, according to the patient's taste. The bowels should be regulated as they are after a confinement; that is, having been well emptied before the operation, they need not be disturbed till they begin to feel uncomfortable; then a lavement may be administered. The catheter should be introduced regularly. If great pain and tenderness come on, a common warm linseed poultice may be applied, as suggested by Mr. Wells ; and if serous effusion should be produced by peritonitis, he very rationally recommends that the wound should be partially opened to let it escape, as he did in one case, with the best possible results;—for, as he observes, the serum in this case was so acrid that it scalded the fingers; and there is no doubt but that it would have been capable by inoculation of producing puerperal fever: what mischief, then, must it not cause within the peritonaeal cavity? Mr. Wells has also evacuated fluid from the pouch of peritonaeum between uterus and rectum, by vaginal puncture, and in one case has left in a drainage- tube with excellent effect. (Med. Times and Gaz,, July 1864.) Dr. Peaslee has reported three cases in which he has practised daily syringing of the peritonaeal cavity with warm water, and injections ot chloride of soda. The patients recovered. (American Journal Med. Science, July, 1864.)t III. Violent Blows on the Abdomen from obtuse substances, * " The fatal mistakes of the operator are, leaving important blood-vessels unsecured; tearing any of the abdominal viscera inadvertently or in coarse haste to get through adhesions; uniting so badly the external wound that it opens and lets out the intestines; treating the gravid uterus as if it were an ovarian cyst; leaving blood or escaped tiuid, or even instruments or sponges in the cavity of the abdomen; as is likely to happen when the operation is hurried to a close, the intestines shovelled back, and the external wound badly adjusted, under that precipitate dread of peritoneal exposure which is incul- cated almost within the first week of dissecting-room life."—Dr. Savage, Lancet, 1864, voL ii., p. 220. t See Lizars on the Extirpation of Diseased Ovaria, Edinburgh, 1825 ; J, Hughes Bennett, Ed. Med. and Surg. Jour. April, 1846 ; B. Phillips, Med. Chir. Trans vol. xxvii.; Dr. R. Lee, on Ovarian and Uterine Diseases, Lond., 1853 ; Dr. Tilt, Lancet, 1849 and 1850; Mr. 1. B. Brown, on Diseases of Women, Lond. 1854 ; Southam on Ovariotomy, Prov. Journ. 1845, and Transactions, 1847 ; Dr. Tanner, in the Lancet for 1852, vol, ii., and Med. Times lor 1853, vol. i.: