OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 750 to the side, to relax the pectoraUs major. And now some touches with a blunt director will probably expose the axillary vein, which should be pressed inwards and there kept with a blunt hook. The heating of the artery must now be sought for, the vessel isolated, and an aneurysm needle be passed from without inwards, with all care not to include any of the nerves (which lie on the outside and behind), either along with the artery, or instead of it. It would be possible to tie the artery below the point where it is crossed by the pectoralis minor, by extending the incision downwards. To tie the Axillary Artery in the axilla.—The patient being placed on his back, the arm must be as widely as possible separated from the trunk, and the fore-arm supinated, and the whole limb rotated in the same direction. The surgeon will then make out the anterior and pos- terior boundaries of the axilla, the anterior constituted by the pectoralis major, the posterior by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, which go to their lespective insertions at the edges of the bicipital groove. Between these muscles the axillary vessels and nerves lie, and can be felt against the upper extremity of the humerus; with the upper part of the coraco-brachialis between the vessels and the pectoralis major. The surgeon will recollect the l elation of the nerves of the axillary plexus to the artery at this point. The external cutaneous nerve (which perforates the coraco-brachialis muscle) with the outer root of the median lie to the outer side; the inner root of the median, the ulnar and internal cuta- neous, on the inner side, and the circumflex and musculo-spiral behind. The operator makes an incision two or two and a half inches long, over and parallel with the upper extremity of the humerus, between the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, but I'ather nearer the latter. It should cut through the skin. Then a cautious dissection through fascia will reveal the axillary vein and median nerve,* the former of which should be drawn inwards, and the latter outwards, whilst the artery is cleared by careful scratches with probes of various degrees of bluutness, else the thoracic and subscapular veins may be wounded. The aneurysm needle is passed between the vein and ai'tery. There are frequent irregularities in the relation of this artery to the nerves and veins, the knowledge of which should make the surgeon careful. Instead of one vein, there may be two or three. There may also be ii-regularities in the course and distribution of the branches of the artery, the most important of which practically is a high separa- tion of the radial or ulna in the axillary space. There may be a double brachial; and the superior profunda may have a common ori- gin with the posterior circumflex, or even with the subscapular, and form a branch large enough to be mistaken for the brachial or axillary. When this is the case, it may be necessary to secure both, if it does not accomplish the end proposed. * In case of difficulty, find the inner border of tbe coraco-brachialis, between which and the arteiy lies the median nerve. Malgaigne, Operative Surgery, by Brittan, p. 130.