819 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. Chlorodyne. This is a popular compound narcotic, said to be made of chloroform, muriate of morphia, oil of peppermint, Indian hemp, capsicum, sul- phuric ether, perchloric acid, and prussic acid, combined with recti- tied spirit, syrup, and treacle. There is nothing new in the prin- ciple of combining several soothing medicines in one prescription, as our own formulae, published for many years, amply testify ; and any prac- titioner who desires to economize opium, should combine a lesser dose of it, with small doses of coniura, henbane, camphor, Indian hemp, or some of them. Mr. JoUey, the eminent chemist, of Curzon Street, tells the writer that his predecessor made thirty years ago, and that he con- tinues to sell, a compound called Moody^s Anodyne, containing opium, syrup of poppies, the true old chloric ether (made by distilling alcohol and muriatic acid ;—not the modern solution of chloroform), and some aroma tics. Dr. W. E, Bowman, Editor of the Canada Lancet, gives the fol- lowing formula for chlorodyne in his Journal, Oct. 15th, 1864 :— '* Take of Chloroform half a fluid ounce. Sulphuric Ether ninety minims. Oil of Peppermint eight drops. Resin of Indian Hemp six grains. Capsicum, bruised two grains. Mix and let them stand a lew days, shaking occasionally. " Take of Muriate of Morphine sixteen grains. Water two drachms. " Solve in a test tube with heat, and, when cold, add Scheele's Hydrocyanic Acid .... sixty-four minims. Perchloric Acid one fluid drachm. Thick Treacle two fluid ounces. Mix all together, and add little by little, *' Treacle oi" Water, or both, until enough has been put in to make up the quantity of chlorodyne to four fluid ounces. " The treacle requires to be of the same specific gravity as the mixture of chloroform and ether. If too thick it will sink to the bottom of the bottle, and require the addition of a little water. But, if too thin, the treacle will float on the surface, and necessitate the addition ot more ether to farther reduce the density of the chlorodyne. " This chlorodyne dropped from the lip of an ordinary vial, gives 120 drops to the fluid drachm, and is readily miscible in pre- scriptions. " Each dose of half a drachm contains 4 m. of chloroform, 1J m. of ether, -^^ gr. extract of hemp, ^ gr. muriate of morphia, and 1 m. of Scheele's acid."