REDUCIBLE HERNIA. 553 hernia. 4. Hernia may be considered virtually without a sac, if the sac has been burst by a blow, or if it has become entirely adherent to its contents. Instances, again, are known in which two peritoneal sacs have protruded through one and the same aperture in the abdomi- nal parietes ; and in which one sac has come down within a previously- existing one. Division.—Hernia is divided into several species: 1st, according to its situation—as the inguinal, femoral, and so forth; 2ndly, according to the co7idition of the protruded viscera; which may be (a) reducible or returnable into the abdomen; (6) irreducible, that is, not returnable into the abdomen, but without constriction; or (c) strangulated, that is, subject to some constriction, which not only prevents their return into the abdomen, but also interferes with the passage of their contents, and with their circulation. SECTION II.—REDUCIBLE HERNIA. Symptoms.—A soft compressible swelling appears at some part of the abdominal parietes. It increases in size when the patient stands up ; if grasped, it is found to dilate when he coughs or makes any exertion ; and it diminishes or disappears when he hes down, or when pi'operly-directed pressure is made upon it. If the sac contains intes- tine only {entero-cele), the tumour is smooth, rounded, and elastic; hor- horygmi (or flatulent croakings) are occasionally heard in it, and when pressed upon, the bowel returns into the abdomen with a sudden jerk and gurgling noise. If, however, it contains omentum only (epiplo-cele), the tumour is flattened, inelastic, flabby, and unequal to the touch, and when pressed, it returns without noise, and very slowly, the pres- sure requiring to be continued till it has nearly disappeared. But very often one hernial sac contains both intestine and omentum (cntero- epiplo-cele) ;* and very frequently it is perfectly impossible to ascertain which it contains by any external examination. Treatment.—This may be palliative or radical. The palliative plan is, to employ a truss, an instrument consisting of a pad placed on the seat of protrusion, and of a steel spring which passes round the body, and causes the pad to press with the requisite degree of force. In writing for a truss it is usual to give the circumference of the body at the hips, midway between the spine of the ilium and the trochanter. The patient must expect to hnd the truss rather irksome for the flrst week. It should be constantly worn by day ; and if the patient will submit to wear it at night, also, so much the better. If he will not do this, he should, at all events, apply it in the morning, before he rises from the recumbent posture. The skin of the part which it presses upon should be regularly washed, and bathed with Eau de Cologne or spirit, else large boils are apt to form on it. * From KTjXTq, tumour; evrepov, intestinum; and IttLttXoov, omentum. The word KriXy) is frequently used in the older surgical terminology; ex. gr., hydro- cele, a tumour containing water; hcematocde, a tumour containing blood; bubonocele, a hernial tumour in the groin.