GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 146 Both, however, became blocked up by coagula, and the patient died from gangrene of the limb.* Intermediary hcemorrhage may occur some hours after the receipt of the wound, as soon as reaction begins, or after it has been thoroughly established. In such cases, if the application of pressure fails, the best treatment is if possible to cut down upon and secure both extremities of the bleeding vessels. Secondary hcemorrhage, or that which takes place at a variable period from the fifth to the twenty-fifth day after the infliction of the injury, may be produced— 1st. By any sudden or violent movement of the patient, or anything which increases the rapidity of his circulation. The coagula which had temporarily closed the extremities of the wounded vessel, are pushed away by the force of the blood, and bleeding immediately takes place. Thus patients during the Russian war frequently died of secondary haemorrhage in being conveyed from the camp to Balaklava. Both in these cases and those of gun-shot fracture of the femur great advantages were derived fi-om the easy means of transport by dhoolies boine by men, in the Indian campaigns. The litieres and cascalets of the Fiench army, placed on each side of a mule, are also easier for the wounded than wheel ambulances.f 2nd. It may happen from sloughing, or ulceiation of a large vessel. The wounded tissues may ulcerate, or else may have been so much in- jured by the wound as to be incapable of recovering their vitality. 3rd. A vessel may be cut at almost any period after the injury, by a projecting sharp spiculum of bone. 4th. A peculiar hfemorrhagic or scorbutic diathesis is a frequent cause of secondary haemorrhage, in an army reduced by a long and severe campaign. This diathesis is often produced in long campaigns from improper diet, such as a deficient supply of vegetable food, which causes scurvy in the men, and renders them liable to haemorrhage from even very slight injuries. The blood thus wanting some necessary principle seems incapable of forming coagula sufficiently firm to seal the mouths of the divided vessels;—or it may be poisoned by hospital air. Treatment.—In all cases, if practicable, both ends of the bleeding vessel should be tied; since, if either end is left open, the circulation may be carried on through collateral channels, and haemorrhage may * Jn the 44th regiment, on the night of the 21st June, 1855, a man had his left arm carried away at the shoulder-joint: the limb was completely separated from the trunk, leaving too little of the soft tissues to cover in the face of the stump. The axillary artery appeared to have bled but little, if at all, at the moment of injury, and there was no subsequent hsmorrhage. The laceration laid bare the artery and vein for full three inches of their course. The ends of the vessel for three quarters of an inch were curved, plugged with coagula, and tapering to a point. The pulsation of the artery was full to the very base of the ping. t Williamson's Military Surgery, pp. 241—244.