366 NEURALGIA. taken for their removal if possible. In cases of neuralgia of the ex- tremities, if there is any tenderness, or other reason for suspecting inflammation of the nerve or its sheath, leeches and blisters, followed by liniments (especially F. 145, 151), applied in the course of the nerve, combined with proper constitutional remedies, may effect a cure. The head, and particularly the spine, should be well scrutinized. If there is any vertebra particularly tender, an opiate or belladonna plaster, or a plaster of arnmoniacum with mercury, or, in extreme cases, the tartar-emetic ointment may be applied. This is the condition which has been described under the term Spinal Irritation. But the writer is more inclined to believe that this is an effect of a general nervous or hysteric condition, than an original or substantive disease in itself. The condition of the great secreting organs, as well as of the stomach, uterus, and rectum, should also be ascertained, in order to make sure that a morbid condition of one of these parts is not the real source of the evil. Secondly, The state of the constitution must be regulated in the same manner as was directed in the treatment of chronic inflamma- tion^ If there are paleness of the lips, emaciation, and debility, iron, bark, and other tonics may be given with advantage. Inquiry should always be made in these cases for piles, menorrhagia, Bright's disease of the kidney, and other weakening ailments. On the other hand, purging and low diet have cured cases attended with hard full pulse and plethora. In all cases, the appetite, the tongue, the biliary and alviue secretions, and the state of the uterine system, should be investigated. In the brow ague and other cases arising from malaria, quinine should be given in doses of three grains every four hours, F. 3 ; if it fails, arsenic, F. 97 ; or the extract of nux vomica, in doses of gr. | ter die, or guaiacum, may de tried. In cases of a rheumatic or gouty character, colchicum, F.70, &c., may be of service. Asssafcetida with aloeticpui'- gatives and valerian may be given if there are hysterical symptoms, and sarsaparilla with iodide of potassium, F. 197, might be tried ; or the hydrochlorate of ammonia, or the nitrate, if the malady has followed syphilis, or if there is any reason to suspect thickening of the bones of the skull. But all lowering remedies, and especially mercury, should be used with the utmost care and hesitation. Thirdly, If no cause whateA^er can be detected ; or if, when detected, it cannot be removed • or if, as frequently happens, even though re- moved, its removal fail to cure the disease, an empirical and palliative plan of treatment is the only resource. A course of purgatives, espe- cially the croton oil, in doses of TY\, i ter die ; tonics, especially the quinine, carbonate of iron, and oxide or sulphate or valerianate of zinc ; any remedies, in fact, that have been known to do good, may be tried in succession ; taking care, however, not to impair the constitution by giving them at random. Opium, morphia, hyoscyamus, belladonna, conium, stramonium, or prussic acid, given internally; friction with ointnaents, or alcoholic solutions of veratria, or aconite (gss ad ^^i), chlorodyne, subcutaneous injection of morphia—galvanism, acupuncture, the moxa.