TUMOURS IN THE ORBIT. 449 fourth day. The advantages of this plan are that it prevents the dropping of the caruncle, the falling in of which to a great degree causes the vacancy sometimes so marked after the ordinary operation; that rapid union is eriected instead of the slow granulating of an open wound ; and that there rarely appear any of those fungous growths that are otherwise common. When the operation is complete, the surgeon will find that the patient can move the eye more freely than before in all other directions, but that he cannot move it directly inwards. In cases in which, after division of one of the recti, the eye has not returned to its central position. Sir W. Wilde has drawn and retained it in its pi'oper place by means of a ligature passed through the sclerotic attachment of the divided rectus, and fixed by sticking-plaster to the nose or temple, and allowed to remain two or three days. The external rectus may be divided by a similar operation, for the divergent squint; and in some instances this has been done for the relief of divergent, which has followed the cure of the convergent, squint. No operation should be attempted when the squint depends on opacity of the cornea, or on cicatrices, tumours, or other mechanical causes; and it should always be ascertained, before dividing any muscle, that its antagonist is not paralysed. SECTION XIX.—TUMOURS IN THE ORBIT, CANCER OF THE EYE, ETC. I.—Protrusion of the Eyeball.—We have already spoken of tumours in the eyelids ; of tumours on the surface of the conjunctiva ; and of tumours resulting from disease of the lachrymal gland. We have yet to allude to the fact that tumours, fatty, osseous, encysted, and solid or sarcomatous, as they were formerly called (which" have not yet been sufficiently examined), may occur within the orbit, caus- ing, as their general symptoms, protrusion, with more or less displace- ment of the eyeball, and projection at the seat of the tumoui-. The danger of tumours in this situation is twofold: destruction of the eve from continued pressure; and protrusion through the roof of the orbit into the cavity of the skull, with compression of the brain ; which should be averted by extirpation so soon as the morbid growth is of a size to threaten mischief. Sometimes it is fliir practice to puncture, or still better to lay open, an encysted tumour by a free incision. But it is not every protrusion of the eyeball that is caused bv ' tumours. For instance,—1. An excessively protruded and goggled state of the eyeball sometimes occurs in connexion with anannia, general debility, and enlargement of the thyroid gland [Graves's or Basedow's disease). See Bronchocele. 2. Suppuration, or inflam- matory effusion, may take place within the orbit. This may occur either internal or external to the ocular sheath of Bonnet and O'Fer- rall, a layer of fascia, immediately surrounding the eye, extending from the posterior margin of each palpebra to the apex of the orbit, and perforated by the ocular muscles. Effusion may take place in the D 2 G