761 FEMORAL ARTERY. through the adductor magnns muscle into the ham, and receives the name of popliteal. Its course is as nearly as possible indicated by a line drawn from the middle of Pou- part's ligament to the inner edge of the patella, supposing the knee to be bent and the thigh turned outwards. It is accompanied by its vein, which lies first to its inner side and then be- hind it, and still further down a little to its outer side. In its upper half it is covered by no muscle; in its lower half it is concealed by the sartorius, behind which it lies against the bone in a dense fibrous sheath, formed by an interweaving of the tendinous ex- pansion of the adductor with that of the vastus internus. The long sa- phenous nerve, a branch of the crural, enters this tendinous sheath, and lies on the outer side of the artery. The saphena, the great cutaneous vein of the leg, the homologue of the cephalic in the upper extremity, ascends the thigh in a course parallel to that of the artery, but internal to it, and enters at the saphenic opening two inches below Poupart's ligament. In the case of stabs in the thigh, it is well to bear in mind the possibility that the pro- funda may be the vessel injured.* It arises from the femoral, about two inches below Poupart's ligament, and runs down the thigh behind and a little to the outside of the superficial femoral, and separated fr6m it, first by the femoral vein, then by the ad- ductor longus tendon. Aneurysm of the profunda is not unknown. Nor must surgeons forget the possibility of varieties in the femoral artery, and that there may be two branches ot nearly equal size, instea<i of one trunk, or a large branch of the ex- ternal circumflex given off from it. The best place for the application of ligature, in cases of popliteal aneurysm, is the lowest part of the upper division of the artery, just before it is crossed by the sartorius. It is far enough from the aneu- rysm for the vessel to be healthy, and low enough to avoid embarrass- ment with the profunda. * See the cases at p. 332 and p. 338.