ABDOMINAL SECTION. 548 passed down to, and protrude from the anus. In some desperate cases, the strangled part has bodily sloughed off, and been voided ; the continuity of the canal has been established again, and the patient has recovered. The best remedy is opium. Lastly, constriction by bands of lymph ; or by rents in the mesentery through which the bowel has slipped; besides internal hernia; obturator hernia, for example. Moreover, from whatever cause arising, the symptoms are usually much the same —^viz., obstinate constipation; a vomiting first of a yellowish or greenish liquid, then of a feculent or stercoraceous matter; great " tympanitis," or distension of the intestines with flatus and fgecal matter, and occasional fits of colicky pain—arising from the efforts of the intestine to overcome the obstacle, during which the coils of the distended guts can be seen through the abdominal parietes. To these essential symptoms, tenderness, and other signs of inflammation are added in greater or less degree. Now the practical question arises—suppose there were to be a case of evident mechanical obstruction of the bowels ; that injections have heen used as largely as they safely can; and that purgatives have been given till they do but add to the distressing vomiting; that leeches and opium and hip-baths have been resorted to for the relief of tenderness; and that some space has been given, if the symptoms are not very urgent, to see what nature unaided can do, and that the case remains unimproved—shall the patient be left to die ? or shall surgical means be resorted to, to give him a chance? The author would say, let the patient settle his affairs, worldly and spiritual, and let an operation be resorted to. The most favourable circumstances which such a case can present are, if the patient is not too much exhausted by a long continuance of pain and vomiting; if he can point to any one spot as the seat of uneasiness, and, probably, of stricture, and if an examination of the distended coils of intestine seems to confirm this suspicion; and if he has been known to suffer on former occasions from an attack of in- flammation in the abdomen, thus making it probable that the obstruc- tion is caused by bands of lymph, rather than by either of the othei- causes ; and if the present attack have come on suddenly. If the operation is determined on, the air of the apartment should be warmed; flannels dipped in warm water should be ready to pro- tect the bowels if they proti'ude; chloroform should be adminis- tered, and the bladder emptied. Then an incision should be made through the linea alba below the umbilicus ; the peritonasum be care- fully opened, and the finger at once passed to the probable seat of obstruction. This seems to be most commonly found near the termi- nation of the small intestines at the bi-im of the pelvis on the right side. To reach it, it is usually necessai y to draw aside the distended bowels and to explore the mesentery. If a band is found, the finger must be passed under it, and a probe-pointed bistoury used to sever it, the wound should be closed with abundance of sutures, and a compress and bandage be placed over it. In one of the cases in which the