26 INFLAMMATION. The time within which repair is effected varies as greatly as the nature of injuries and of constitutions. But vascularity, or pro- pulsion of new blood-vessels into a new fibrinous exudation, may occur certainly in less than forty-eight hours, whilst in the progress of granulation, the growth of one day appears to become vascular by the next. Conditions favourable for repair, and the reverse.—1. In the first place, ca;teris paribus, the younger the system, the moi-e capable is it of repair. 2ndly. The state of the blood may be so poor as not to yield the necessary material; or it may be so overloaded with ill-assi- milated material, or so poisoned, that the new textures are ill capable of development, and run into degeneration. 3. Local conditions may be such as to afibi-d mechanical or chemical complications. The repa- rative material if disturbed may perish, or if exposed to air or to poisonous influences, may undergo degeneration into pus, or into sanies which may infect the whole blood. In general terms, what- ever favours inflammation is hostile to repair, and the converse. Injuries with wound of skin, and without.—If we divide cases into two great categories—those attended with wound of skin, and those without, we find that the former are infinitely the more dangerous and difficult of repair: as evidenced by compound fracture and dislocation, and by wounds of the great visceral cavities, compared with the severest bruises and simple fractures. The reason of the difference is the fact, that reparative material exposed to the air and contact of the outer world is more liable to perish, and, having perished, to run into unwholesome changes, which may spread over the whole surface injured or exposed. It is a principle derived from this fact, that wounds of the skin are to be avoided when possible, and, when unavoidable, are to be as limited as possible: and that the subcutaneous method origi- nally used for the division of tendons should be extended to every case admitthig of it.* CHAPTER VI. INFLAMMATION. SKCTION I.—INTRODUCTORY. Definition.—A perfect definition of inflammation is at present impossible, forasmuch as we are ignorant of many of its conditions, and are not even agreed upon the processes which shall be included under the term. Perhaps we may say that it is " a diseased process, in- cluding hypersemia, stagnation of blood, and exudation with disturb- ance of the minute structural or cell elements of the part affected." Symptoms.—The classical symptoms are four—pain, heat, redness, * Sketch of Subcutaneous Surgery, by W. Adams, F.R.C.S. 'Lend. 1857. Refer to Tenotomy, False Cartilage, Eursae, and Hernia.