DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 665 only remedy is extirpation of the diseased mass, which should be done early. Tiiere can be no danger in trimming oif a few pounds of redundant scrotum. But if the disease be very voluminous (following the directions of Allan Webb and other Indian surgeons, and of Dr. Wiblin, by whom the author saw a remarkable scrotal tumour removed at Southampton in 1862), the surgeon should place the patient on a table, two houi-s before the operation, should raise the tumour by a pulley attached to the ceiling, and should ice it, so as to let all possible blood return from it into the circulation. Chloroform is given ; a clamp composed of parallel bars, with screws at each end, is applied to the neck of the tumour to act as a tourniquet; if there be any hernia, care should be taken that it has been wholly reduced. Then he makes first a longitudinal cut with a long knife up the urinary aperture, over the dorsum of the penis, which part is to be dissected out; next, by similar incisions over each cord and testicle, those parts are exposed, dissected out, and held up: whilst lastly the operator makes a clean sweep with the remainder of the tumour. The great danger is the haemorrhage ; which must be obviated by a rapid operation, and by plenty of ligatures. If the tumour is very large, the attempt to save the testicles, or even the penis, might be hazardous, and a clean sweep must be made.* SECTION II.—DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. I. AcDTE Inflammation of the testis {acute testitis, orchitis, hernia humoralis) may be caused by local violence, but more frequently occurs in conjunction with gonorrhoea, through an extension of inflam- mation from the urethra. It is very liable to be induced if the patient indulges in violent exercise and fermented liquors, or neglects to use a suspensory bandage while employing injections. Symptoms.—The discharge from the urethra diminishes, and the patient soon complains of aching pain in the testis and cord, extending up to the loins, and soon followed by great swelling, excruciating ten- derness, fever, and vomiting. The epididymis is the part most affected. The swelling depends mainly upon an effusion of lymph and serum into the tunica vaginalis. Treatment.—Absolute rest in bed ; the application of leeches, or the abstraction of blood from some of the veins of the scrotum ; opium at night to allay pain; purgatives, especially F. 40, followed by tartar emetic in doses of a sixth of a grain, F. 67, every five or six hou)-s, warm fomentations, and a suspensory bandage, or handkerchief, to elevate the part upon the abdomen. After the acute stage has subsided, strong astringent lotions, F. 117, may be employed. Some hardness and swelling (as the patient should be informed) always remain after the acute attack. As soon as the very acute stage has subsided, coin- * Field Notes for Amputations, &c., by Allan Webb, M.D., Calcutta, 1855. East Indian cases; Esdaile on Natural and Mesmeric Clairvoyance, Lend., 1852. John Wiblin's case, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xlvi., and Med. Times, 1862, vol. ii., with tabular record of European and West Indian cases.