272 FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. during the act of coughing or inspiration, and the patient is sensible of it likewise. If the fracture be situated near the spine, or if the patient be very corpulent, it may be difficult to detect it with certainty: but this is of little consequence ; for in every case, when a patient complains of pain on inspiration, after a blow on the chest, the treatment is the same. Treatment.—The indications are, 1. To diminish motion of all the ribs, by passing a broad flannel roller, or a towel fastened with tape round the chest, so tightly, that respiration may be performed chiefly by the diaphragm. The bandage should have shoulder-straps to keep it up. The arms should be confined to the side so as to prevent all motion of the scapula; and this latter in fat women is all that can be done: moreover, there are some patients who find all bandages intole- rable, but who do very well by being kept quiet in bed. Another plan sometimes used is to apply broad straps of adhesive plaster round the side of the chest on which the fracture is placed, leaving the opposite side free. 2. To prevent inflammation of the chest, keep the respiration easy, and relieve pain or cough, by rest in bed, by purga- tives, and opiates ; bleeding if necessary. Emphysema, a swelling caused by the presence of air in the cellular tissue, is an occasional complication of this fracture. It is produced in the following way:—The extremities of the fractured rib perforate both pleuroB and wound the lung. In the act of inspiration, air escapes from the lung into the cavity of the pleura, and from thence through the wound in th.Q pleura costalis into the cellular tissue of the trunk. Emphysema forms a soft puffy tumour, that crepitates and disperses on pressure. Treatment.—" The first object," says Mr. Vincent, " is to adapt a firm bandage over the part of the rib bi'oken, by which the effusion of air into the cellular tissue under the integuments is stopped. The air passing from the wounded lung is now confined to the cavity of the pleura, with which it is filled, compressing the lung. By this means the wound which was made whilst the lung was dilated, is more com- pletely closed than would have been done with any contrivance of art. This wound is usually healed on the eighth day: at that period the breathing greatly improves,"f and the case is soon reduced to one of simple broken rib.—6ee the Chapter on the Injuries of the Chest. IX. —Fracture of the Sternum. Symptoms.—Crepitus may be felt during inspiration or other movements of the trunk, and dis- placement (if any) can be detected by examination. Treatment.—The same as for fractured ribs. X. Fractures op the Pelvis can be caused only by most tre- mendous violence, so as sometimes to wrench open the sacro-iliac joints ; and are often attended with some fatal complication ;—such as laceration of the bladder or rectum, or of the great arteries or A'-eins. Treatment.—The only thing to be done is, to place the patient at perfect rest, and in as easy a position as possible; to keep a catheter in * Vincent, op. cit., p. 47.