520 WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. surgeon, Dr. Douglass of Havre, was rewarded by a return of respira- tion.* IX. Aetificial Breathing is required in all cases of suspended animation, whether from drowning, injury, noxious gases, chloroform, or narcotic poisons. It may be performed by passing a pipe through the mouth, or a male catheter through the nostril, into the glottis ; or by simply putting a pipe into one nostril, and closing the mouth and the other nostril, and blowing through it. But it is a better plan to use a small pair of bellows, putting its muzzle into one nostril. The operator should be careful to force the air into the lungs with very great gentleness, and to press the larynx against the spine, so that the air may not go down the oesophagus. If the larynx has been crushed by a rope, or by a violent blow, it may be necessary to perform trache- otomy, so as to impel a current of air directly into the trachea. Or, instead of forcing air into the lungs, the operator may employ Dr. Sylvester's method, of imitating the natural expansion of the chest by muscular effort.f The patient is laid on his back with the shoulders raised; the tongue brought forward, and retained, if necessary, by gently closing the patient's teeth in it. Then the operator raises the patient's arms by the side of his head, and extends them gently and steadily upwards and forwards for a few minutes. This action imitates inspiration. Then the patient's arms are turned down, and gently and firmly pressed for a moment against the sides of the chest: this imitates a deep expiration. These actions should be perseveringly repeated about fifteen times in a minute. SECTION IV.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE NECK AND THROAT. I, Wounds op the Throat are generally made with intention of suicide, and are extremely dangerous, no less from the importance of the parts injured, than from the despondency of the patient. Treatment.—The general indications are, 1 st, to arrest hsemorrhage; 2ndly, to obviate difficulty of breathing; 3rdly, to prevent inflamma- tion of the trachea or chest. In the first place, any arteries that are wounded must be tied, and haemorrhage from large veins must be restrained by pressure with the finger, kept up as long as may be necessary. The patient should be put to bed in rather a warm room ; and so soon as all oozing has ceased, but not before, his shoulders should be raised by pillows, and head be bent forwards, and be confined by a bandage passing from each side of the nightcap to the shoulders. Plasters are inad- missible, and so are sutures, except in the cases that will be alluded to * Med. Gaz., 23rd December, 1846. f The True Physiological Method of restoring persons apparently drowned or dead, and of resuscitating still-born children, by H. Sylvester, M.D. Lond., 1859. There is a rolling method, invented by the late Dr. Marshall Hall, very ingenious, but coarse and inefficient by the side of Dr. Sylvester's.