DISEASES OF THE BONES. 237 the numerous gaps and breaks in the lamiuss, from the irregular and eroded edges of some of the Haversian canals, and from the evident way in which new and small Haversian systems are intruded into larger pre- existing ones. The soft .parts which till the medullary cavities and the Haversian canals, thus evidently have the power of absorbing the bone with which they are in contact. The microscopical changes observed in diseased bone consist in dilier- ences in the quantity and quality of the bone structure, and in the nature of the substances which fill its cavities. Thus, 1st, in bone, which is unusually dense and heavy, with few cavities Ansible to the naked eye, the minutest structui'e is also con- densed, the Haversian canals small, the corpuscles opake, and arranged in well-marked laminse. 2ndly. In bone which is loosened out and spongy, the Haversian canals are large, the laminse ill defined, the corpuscles ill developed; as in the second figure, p. 236. 3rdly. The medulla and other struc- tures which fill the bone cavities, may be variously diseased; they may be con- gested ; the fat cells may be atrophied 5 or replaced by inflammatory exudation, tubercle or cancer, and the bone may be infiltrated with free oil.* II. Simple Hyperteophy.—It some- times happens that one or more bones in- crease in length and breadth, without any deviation from their healthy struc- ture. Thus the tibia, or fibula, or femur, has been known to become enlarged and lengthened after some disease which has brought an increased flow of blood to the limb; and the superior maxillary bone has been converted into a solid mass with complete obliteration of the antrum. The deviation from common nutrition on which such enlargements depend, is hardly to be controlled by medicine, al- though, if any drug is likely to be of ser- vice, it is the iodide of potassium. III. Exostosis signifies a tumour formed by the ii-regular hypertrophy of bone. Such tumours are hard, painless, and globular, and mostly situated on the * See a paper by Mr. Tomes and Mr. De Morgan on the .Structure of Bone, I'tiii. Irans. 1852, and a review of it by R. Druitt in the Brit, and For Med Quarterly for 1853; and Wedl, Patholog. Histology, published by the Sydenham