CATARACT. 421 tion (syphilitic or otherwise) has ceased. It is not advisable to operate if one eye be quite sound ; and supposing one eye to be irrecoverably lost, it is not advisable to form an artificial pupil in the other, pro- vided the patient find his way about with it. Moreover, the new pupil should be made large, because it will ahvays contract somewhat afterwards. SKCTION S.—INFLAMMATION OF THE CAPSULE OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. This is a very rare affection, and always chronic. Vision is con- fused,—objects looking as if they were seen through a fine gauze. On examining the eye with a strong lens in a good light, the pupil being well dilated with atropine, a number of minute red vessels are seen in the pupil. If the anterior capsule be affected, the vessels form a circular wreath of vascular arches with the centre clear : if it be the posterior capsule, they are central and arborescent. The iris is always slightly discoloured and sluggish. Treatment.—Local bleeding, if necessary ; mercury, counter-irrita- tion, change of air, and alteratives. SECTION XI.—CATARACT. Definition.—An opacity of the crystalline lens or of its capsule, or of both. Symptoms.—Before examining any patient with suspected cataract, the pupil should be dilated with atropine, F. 198, and then, if there be capsular cataract, there will be seen behind the pupil an opaque body of a gray dead-white; if lenticular catai-act, of a bluish-white, or amber-colour. The patient usually gives as his history, that his vision has become gradually impaired; that objects appear of irre- gular outline, or multiplied, or as if surrounded with a mist, or as if a cloud was interposed between them and the eye. If lenticular cataract alone be present, he will say that the sight is better in the evening, or in a subdued light, or when the back is turned to the win- dow ; or perhaps after the application of belladonna or atropine,— obviously because the pupil, being dilated under those circumstances, permits more light to pass through that part of the lens which is as yet transparent, or which, though opaque, is thinner, and therefore affords less obstruction to light than the centre. In the most confirmed cases, the patient is yet able to distinguish day from night. There is also the catoptric test,—that is, the mode of examining the eye by the reflection of light, which was proposed by M. Sanson. When a lighted taper is moved before the eye of a healthy person, three images of it may be observed. 1st. An erect image, that moves upwards when the candle is moved upwards, and that is produced by reflection from the surface of the cornea. 2ndly. Another erect image, produced by reflection from the anterior surface of the crystalline lens,