214 ox VENEREAL DISEASES. consisting of lymphy exudation, may form in the areolar tissue, on tendons, or in muscle. They are affected with severe nocturnal pain. A patch of this kind of unhealthy inflammation is apt to form in the tongue, and after a time if a cachectic state be induced, it softens down and an abscess breaks, disclosing a ragged excavation, filled with orange-coloured sloughs, and exuding a copious fetid discharge. If it occurs on the palate, a probe will detect bare exfoliated bone; which rapidly perishes and leaves a hideous chasm. VI. Of Internal Organs.—Syphilitic phthisis from fibroid de- posit in the lung ; the same state of liver and spleen with ascites, dyspepsia, &c., are diseases for which we must refer the reader to Wilks and Marston. VII. Of the Nervous System.—Paralysis, especially if de- pendent on disease of the spinal cord, or of some single nerve, and fits of epilepsy, coming on without due cause in a young adult, should always lead to inquiry for syphilitic contagion. The writer cannot help urging on his medical brethren the duty of making this inquiry in cases of inexplicable organic disease. Some time since he treated a healthy young man, who with slight syphilitic rash had violent haemoptysis. This passed off, leaving the lungs healthy. Some months afterwards came anaemia, enlarged liver, and a peculiar straw tint of skin, with great tenderness and pain in the epigastrium. During this attack, the urine was several times of the darkest porter colour, from dissolved hcematine. The patient seemed at death's door, but was treated on the hypothesis that the malady was syphilitic, and recovered under iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla. For Syphilitic Disease of the Eye, Testis, &c., see Part IV. section IX.—treatment of constitutional syphilis, ESPECIALLY BY MERCURY. Modern experience has shown that syphilis, primary or secondary, may get well of itself. This is most likely to happen to robust per- sons who lead regular lives, take out-door exercise, and perspire freely. It has also confirmed the universal testimony of mankind to the effi- cacy of mercury in removing existing syphilitic symptoms. But, as Dr. Wilks has well pointed out, the universal experience of mankind shows mercury to possess a certain liquefacient or deobstruent virtue thi-ough which it probably tends to remove that caco-plastic deposit which is the characteristic of constitutional syphilis. But unluckily it does not stop there,* for it tends to produce antemia, nervousness, and cachexy by its accumulation in the system, and severe and de- pressing diarrhoea and tenesmus if it makes its way out by the bowels. The problem for the practitioner is to secure the first, and avoid the second effect; for mercury, as Dr. Wilks observes, is a foe to syphilis, but a friend to those ulcerative and suppurative cachexies which con- * See the remarks on IMercury by the late venerable Dr. Farre, quoted in K. Ferguson on Puerperal Fever.