349 ANEURYSM. aneurysm and the heart, it has been proposed to tie the vessel on the distal side ; and this operation has been performed with success in cases of carotid aneurysm, by Mr. Wardrop and others. Slime's operation.—For such cases, Mr. Syme, whose vigour and fearlessness as a surgeon are above all praise, has revived the old opei'a- tion of direct ligature which Hunter caused to be discarded in favour the distant ligature. This is in effect the same as the operation for traumatic aneurysm, so vividly described by John Bell, and quoted at p. 338. Mr, Syme lays open the aneurysm, scoops out the blood, and seizes and ties the artery just above and below its orifice into the aneurysm. But it may be said. How is the patient to be hindered from bleeding to death whilst this is done? With great sagacity, Mr. Syme made an incision along the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle (it was an axillary aneurysm), through the platysma and fascia, so as to allow his assistant's finger to be pushed down and compress the artery where it issues from under the scalenus articus, and lies on the first rib. This mode of commanding arteries in complicated opera- tions is well worthy of note. Thirty years ago, in a case in which troublesome haemorrhage was apprehended during removal of the upper jaw-bone, Mr. Syme made an incision between the ramus of the lower jaw and mastoid process, so as to have enabled a finger, if need be, to have been thrust in to compress the internal maxillary artery.* 4. Fergussons Treatment by Manijjulation.—In two cases of aneu- rysm of the right subclavian artery, between the scaleni, Mr. Fergusson instead of trying the hopeless operation of ligature between the tumour and the heart, or the very doubtful one of ligature on the distal side, endeavoured to block up the artery, by fibrine squeezed from the sac. He first emptied the sac by pressure with his thumb, then deliberately squeezed and rubbed the opposed surfaces against each other, so as to force some of the fibrine into the artery. The effect in each case was immediate and striking. In the first case there was giddiness, in the second partial hemiplegia, rendering it probable that some particles of fibrine had been carried up to the brain ; in the first, after one or two repetitions of the manipulation, all circulation in the vessel and its branches below was arrested, and the tumour became smaller and firmer. Nevertheless after some coiisiderable exertion, it burst into the brachial plexus, and the patient died seven months after the first manipulation. In the second case (in which, by the way, all pulsation had ceased in the arteries below for some months before the manipulation) the tumour became gradually less, and the man was alive and well two years afterwards. 5. Various modes of cure have been from time to time proposed on the principle of causing coagulation of the blood in the sac. The most hopeful of these, is the injection of a solution of basic per- chloride of iron, of the strength from 15 to 20 degrees of Beaume's Areometer, by means of a syringe, the fine nozzle of which is made with a cutting point, so as to puncture the sac. The piston is * Syme, Med, Cliir. Trans, vol. xliii.