FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 265 of the fracture of the tuberosity, crepitus can be readily detected, when the shoulder is grasped with moderate firmness, and the arm rotated. The absence of a rounded tumour in the axilla, and the impossibility of feeling the glenoid cavity, are sufficient to enable us to distinguish this fracture from luxation." (2.) Fracture at the line of junction of the epiphysis, called by Sir A. Cooper " fracture through the tubercles, or at the anatomical neck," is a not unfrequent accident in early life, and is usually caused by great and direct violence. Symptoms.—The head of the bone can be felt in the glenoid cavity (by which sign this accident is distin- guished from dislocation) ; it remains motionless when the elbow is rotated; there is a striking and abrupt projection situated beneath the coracoid process, and caused by the upper extremity of the shaft of the bone, drawn inwards by the muscles which constitute the folds of the axilla. It may be felt rounded, smooth, and slightly convex, not with the sharp irregular margin of ordinary fracture: a slight extension from the elbow draws the bi'oken point of the bone into its natural place, but it immediately projects again when the extension is discon- tinued : the axis of the arm is directed downwards, outwards, and backwards. (3.) Fracture of the surgical neck presents nearly the symptoms of the preceding variety : the head of the bone felt in the glenoid cavity ; the elbow capable of being moved by the surgeon in all directions, whilst the head of the bone remains motionless ; the projection of the upper end of the shaft under the pectoralis muscle; the deformity re- moved by extension, but returning when the extension is discon- tinued. There is one variety of this accident in which the lower fragment is driven up and impacted in the cancellous tissue of the head of the bone. This complication adds mate- rially to the difficulty of diagnosis, inasmuch as there is slight shortening and some de- formity, but yet none of the usual signs of luxation or of fracture of the neck of the bone. Crepitus may, however, be produced, if the surgeon very firmly grasp the head of the bone, whilst an assistant rotates the elbow. (4.) Fracture of the greater tuberosity is usually caused by blows or falls on the shoulder. Symptoms.—Great breadth of the injured joint; slight projection of the acro- mion and flattening of the deltoid, though the finger cannot be sunk into the glenoid cavity as in a case of dislocation; the head of the bone is held in the glenoid socket by the axillary muscles, whilst the sepa- rated tuberosity is drawn outwards by the supra and infra spinatusand * Fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, united.