800 EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. en masse the diseased bones were at oiice brought into view. In the next place, the soft parts were cautiously separated from the ends of the ulna and radius, including the second extensor tendon of the thumb, which was detached from its groove in the radius. Then the few ligamentous shreds which bound the diseased bones together were severed ; their carious ends were made to project by bending down the hand ; the soft parts in front were sufficiently detached by a few cautious touches with the knife, which was kept close to the bones so as not to injure the radial or ulnar artery ; after this the ends of the bones were easily removed by Mr. Butcher's saw. Then the diseased carpal bones were dissected out, except the trapezium, which was sound; some of the thickened soft parts were cut away, the flaps laid down and secured, and the hand and arm put upon a padded splint in the prone position. The advantage of Mr. Batcher's mode of operating is, that it leaves the extensor muscles of the thumb intact; so that although the fingers will be of necessity stifiened in a bent position, yet with the aid of the thumb they will be available for writing and many other purposes. In a recent paper he gives a specimen of the writing executed by a sightly and useful hand, which would formerly have been ampu- tated. Other modes of operating, consist of longitudinal incisions on one or both sides of the wrist-joint; or of incisions on the dorsal and palmar aspects so planned as to go between the tendons without di- viding them. No two cases are exactly alike. But the principles which should guide the surgeon are to take away nothing that can safely be left, and to leave the soft parts of thumb or finger, even if obliged to cut out joints or portions of bones. It is useful also to bear in mind the fact which Mr. Butcher has pointed out, of the inde- pendence of the muscles of the thumb from those of the fingers, so that either set may be hopelessly injured by disease, leaving the other almost unaffected. VI. Excision of the hip-joint.— We have spoken in a former page of the removal of the carious head of the thigh-bone after it has become dislocated by disease, and of more or less of the diseased acetabulum with it. Now for a few words on the much more formi- dable operation which has been performed in cases of injury. When the head or neck of the femur has been broken by a musket ball, the patient may be seen, says Mr. Guthrie, lying in bed, with a small hole in front or at the back of the thigh, with no bleeding, and no pain, and nothing but inability to move the limb and to stand upon it; and yet this man will die inevitably after a few weeks of pain and suffering, unless his thigh be amputated at the hip, or unless the splin- tered bones be cut out. Mr. Guthrie, in the Addenda to his Commentaries, tells us that this operation was performed at least six times before Sebastopol, in 1855, and although not one of the patients survived, yet there were plenty of causes besides the operation to account for their death. Mr. Blen-