INJURIES OF THE EYE. 393 sidered inapplicable, mercury should be given gently, as directed for iritis, so as to control the effusion, or cause it to be absorbed. Lastly, the diet should be proportioned to the patient's strength, but not too low. The eyes should be protected from light; yet without sacri- ficing good ventilation and coolness. As the disease is disappearing, bark will often be of material service. 2. Of the various idiopathic inflammations of the eyeball, we will mention (a) that most foudroijant attack, which sometimes occurs in pycemia; in which the eye is filled with unhealthy lymph, and destroyed with a rapidity that admits of scarcely any remedy. See Pycemia. (6) Inflammation of the eyeball as a consequence of con- tamination of the blood from the poison of syphilis, is described under the head of syphilitic iritis ; (c) that caused by rheumatism, common or gonorrhosal, is described under the heads of sclerotitis, and of rheumatic iritis, (d) Scrofulous affections are spoken of under the head of scrofulous iritis, and corneitis ; and of cancer of the eye. Sect. 18. Strumous ophthalmia, commonly so called, is a disease of the conjunc- tiva, so far as it is a local disease at all. Lastly, one eye may be affected sympathetically by disorganization of its fellow ; a thing to be averted by removing the cornea and evacuating the morbid products, or extirpating the eye after the manner of Bonnet.* SECTION II.—INJURIES. L Wounds of the eyelids or eyebrows should be most carefully ad- justed by means of sutures, introduced with a very fine needle, which should pass through the cartilage, if divided. The glover's needle is the best. The greatest care should be taken to prevent irregular cicatrization, with the distortion, and inversion or eversion, that may be the result of it, A linen rag wetted with cold water should then be laid on the part—inflammation should be counteracted, and the patient be kept at rest till the wounds are healed. Wounds of the forehead, but more especially of the eyebrow, and of the margin of the orbit, even though the globe of the eye has not been struck, are occasionally followed by loss of vision, owing to concussion of the retina, or effusion of blood in the eye. II. Blows on the eye are generally followed by a disreputable-look- ing ecchymosis, which is inconvenient enough. But sometimes a blow on the naked eyeball, even when so slight as to leave no trace of injury, or a severe blow on the temple, causes detachment of the retina, or some other deep-seated injury to the eye, dimness or total loss of sight, which, when neglected, may lead to permanent blindness. * See a series of cases by Haynes Walton, illustrating this point, Med. Times, Feb. 18th, 1854; and similar cases by Mr. K. Taylor, ibid , Oct. 28th, 1854. The author most strongly recommends the perusal of a Treatise on inflam- mations of the Eyeball, by Arthur Jacob, M.D., ike, Dublin, 1849.