ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 192 most of the earlier writers ascribe the outbreak to conjunction of planets, inundations, and other natural or supernatural causes. More- over, the Spanish soldiers may have taken it to America. The dis- covery of guaiacum and its use in Haiti gives something like con- sistence to the story. But it is a point unsettled. We cannot pretend to say more than this, that whether syphilis had or had not existed on the earth before, it was unknown to civilized European man till the epoch of the discovery of America. 3. What is the theory of the disease ? If we may glance at the history of opinions, we find that, from about 1550 to 1777, writers forgot the separate existence of any several diseases which might be communicated by connexion, and confounded them all under one head ; taking gonorrhoea (which was supposed to be a seminis profluvium), bubo, swelled testicle, all sorts of ulcers, eruptions, and other constitu- tional symptoms of syphilis to be one and the same disease, and all requiring mercurial treatment. It is true that here and there common sense prevailed. Thus several ancient writers believed mercury to be needless in gonorrhoea; Professor Borgarutius seems to prognosti- cate something of modern doctrine, when he says that lues is not to be feared if there be a copious gonorrhoea or good fat bubo ; and Dan. Turner pronounced mercury unnecessary in clap, and only gave it in compliance with custom.* Still it was only in the year 1776-7 that the identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis was formally denied by Dr. F. Balfour, in a thesis published at Edinburgh.! The distinction between these two diseases was fully established by Benjamin Bell,^ and the utter use- lessness and mischief of mercury in gonorrhoea: yet it was the common practice to salivate in this complaint even in Sir Astley Cooper's time, for he bitterly denounces the custom, which is kept up to the present day by the vulgar advertising quacks. The separation of gonorrhoea from syphilis may be called the first step towards an improved theory of these diseases. That which delayed the general reception of this truth, and has perhaps caused a greater amount of confusion of thought and bad practice than any work ever before published, was John Hunter's celebrated book on the Venereal published in 1786. Hunter, from one experiment, affirmed the identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis, and thus perpetuated the horrors of salivation for the former disease. Not content with endorsing an ancient error, he introduced a new one—in the strange proposition that secondary syphilis is not contagious. This notion was contrary to the general experience of mankind; it was combated by the Edinburgh school; it was contravened by the known facts as to the contagion of infantile syphilis, the existence of the " button scurvy " in Ireland,§ and the * Turner's Aplarodisiacus, p. 315. f The author takes this from MS. notes, in his father's handwriting, of the Lectures on Surgery, delivered in Edinburgh by Prof. J. Thompson, 1804. See also Hales' Salivation not Necessary. London, 1765. Letter to C. Hawliins, 1110. J Treatise on Gonorrhoea Virulenta and Lues Venerea, 2nd ed. Edin. 1797. $ See Wallace on the Venereal.