LITHOTOMY, 658 Many surgeons direct the assistant to hold the staff so that it may project in the perinaeum, and incline a little to the left side of it,— and when they have opened the urethra, and are about to incise the neck of the bladder, they take its handle in their own left hand, and bring it down horizontally. Mr. Key preferred a straight staff". Again, there are great diversities in the manner of cutting into the bladder. Some use a histouri cache, an instrument containing a blade that protrudes to a certain extent on touching a spring. Sir B. Brodie preferred a beaked knife; or, if the stone is very large, a double-edged knife with a beak in the centre, so as to divide both sides of the pros- tate. When the bladder is opened he directs the wound to be dilated by means of the blunt gorget, which distends the neck of the bladder, and splits cleanly through the prostate, without any risk of haemorrhage or mischief. Many surgeons open the bladder by means of the cutting gorget; the beak of which being put into the groove of the staff, held horizontally in the operator's left hand, is pushed cautiously on, and made to cut its way into the bladder. If this instrument is employed, every precaution must be used to keep it in contact with the staff, and not to let it slip between the bladder and rectum—an accident that has been the death of not a few. Professor Buchanan, of Glasgow, employs a rectangular staff, with the shorter branch grooved in its side. This is introduced and made to feel the stone. The surgeon introduces the left forefinger into the I'ectum (where he keeps it duiing the whole operation), feels that the prostate is between his finger and the short branch of the sound, keeps the angle of the staff just in fi-ont of the gland, and depresses the handle, so that the angle may project in the perinseum between the anus and bulb, and that the left thumb may feel the groove. The handle is now committed to an assistant, with instructions to depress it steadily, and keep it in the same position. The surgeon then plunges a bistoury iuto the groove of the staff in the middle line just above the anus, at the point where the skin and mucous membrane meet. The bistoury (a straight and sharp backed instrument whose blade, cutting on both edges near the point, and is of the same length as the short branch of the staff) is pushed to the extremity of the groove, being kept strictly at right angles to the handle of the staff". In withdrawing it, it is made to cut at first outwards and downwards, then directly downwards, so that the incision turns as it were round the finger in the rectum. The advantages of this operation are said to be, that it is simple and easy; that it is free from hsemorrhage, because removed from the trans- verse vessels of the perinaeum ; and that the incisions are small, and yet the wound roomy, from the extensibility of the rectum, Buchanan's staff has been modified by Mr. Hutchinson, who has converted it into a grooved catheter staff, with a stopcock ; so that the surgeon may be certified, by the escape of urine, that he has really reached the bladder, and may inject water if need be. Dr. Corbett has added to Buchanan's staff another external staff", the short branch of which is pointed; and which is so contrived that when the first staff'