GONOREHCEA, OR CLAP. 197 fourth or fifth day. The later it appears the less severe it generally is; yet ia some very mild cases, the discharge comes on immediately after connection. GONORRHCEA IN THE Female,—It is important to consider the precise seat of the disorder. 1. There may be vulvitis, inflammation of the mucous membrane of the external parts only, that is, of the labia, nymphte, meatus urinarius, and parts adjoining, corresponding to bala- nitis in the male. The discharge is profuse, often fetid, the parts much swelled, perhaps aphthous and excoriated, and there is great pain in walkmg and in making water. The inguinal glands may enlarge, or there may be abscess in the labia. 2. The vagina may be aflected likewise. 3. The canal of the cervix uteri may be implicated, with or without abrasion of the mucous membrane. Causes.—Discharges from the female organs may be produced by many causes. 1. Thus discharges of the first sort just spoken of are by no means uncommon in girls or women of any age, and may be the result of want of cleanliness, of teething, of disordered condition of urine, or of any other form of constitutional disturbance. The sui'geon should be well aware of this, as parents are apt to be very much alarmed, and to attribute such complaints to improper causes. 2. Dis- charge of clear viscid mucus from the vagina is not unfrequent in feeble women, the parts of generation being patulous and relaxed. 3. The canal of the cervix uteri is, as Dr. Tyler Smith has shown, the seat of the true leucorrhcea; a discharge of tenacious alkaline mucus, containing abundance of round corpuscles. This is very commonly caused by mental and other circumstances affecting the health in general, and the generative organs in particular. Diagnosis.—Are there any certain means of distinguishing the dis- charges caused by infection from those arising from intrinsic sources ? First, as to symptoms, it may be alleged that a purulent discharge occurring suddenly, with inflammatory symptoms, and excessively obstinate, affecting the vagina as well as the external parts of genera- tion, in a woman who is not a virgin, is most probably gonorrhoeal. The non-venereal cases, so far as the author has seen, are not so obsti- nate, and do not involve such an extensive track. If the discharge comes solely from the external vulva, or solely from the canal of the cervix uteri, with or without excoriation or granular surface, it is pro- bably not gonorrhoeal. But, 2ndly, if it come fiom the vagina, the diagnosis must be chiefly a matter of inference. Discharges from the vagina are acid, and consist of abraded epithelium and pus. But no microscopical or chemical test, at present known, enables us to distin- guish those arising from idiopathic causes in chaste women, from those arising from contagion. Prophylactic Treatment.—The only prophylactic to be relied on is chastity ;—next to this soap and water, followed by an alum wash. Women should iise a weak alum wash with a good female syringe (F. 129); and fissures or excoriations of the penis should be treated with lunar caustic, and a bit of dry lint.