ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 218 cially decoction of bark with nitric acid; followed by small doses of iodide of potassium.* In whatever way mercury be administered, many practitioners always give iron or quinine, or both, at the same time; and after it, a course of iodide of potassium with some bitter, F. 1, 4, 13, 17, 19, 94, 205. In the case of secondary symptoms, if they are ushered in with pain in the chest and febrile symptoms, it will be necessary to give saline medicines and warm baths, and confine the patient to the house. When the febrile state has vanished, if the patient has never taken a course of mercury,—or if he has been subjected to an imperfect course of it for the primary symptoms,—and his constitution is sound, he may take a course of calomel fumigation. If, under its use, the strength and general appearance are improved, so much the better ; but if he gets thinner, weaker, and haggard, and suffers from chills or feverishness, or if his ulcers become irritable and phagedsenic, it must be given up, and the iodide of potassium be substituted. In the later stages of secondary and tertiary syphilis, mercury must be used with great caution, more especially if the lesions incline to ul- cerate and suppurate. Yet in such cases the bichloride combined with bark or steel, F. 87, Plummer's pill, F. 66, and the biniodide with iron are of most service. The iodide of potassium is especially useful in the later stages, and in all cases of syphilitic deposit or eruption, in which mercury is judged inexpedient, or has been given so far as is thought prudent, without re- lieving the symptoms. It is best to give it for two or three weeks, then change it for some other tonic and alterative. The strong decoction of sarsaparilla has the deserved reputation of healing irritable ulcers, and adding to the patient's nutrition. The muriate and carbonate of ammo- nia are often combined with the iodide of potassium, F. 197. The sudo- rific decoctions of guaiacum, drank hot in large quantities, are perhaps not so worthless as they have been deemed. The chloride of gold in doses of gr. seems sometimes to do good. The surgeon will need great variety of remedies, in protracted tertiary cases. The main object should be to improve the general look and condition of the patient; to treat symp- toms ; to give short courses of alteratives in succession, continuing each so long as it does good ; never to push a remedy, if it does manifest harm, under the vague idea that it is specific ; and to try and wear out the disease with as little harm to the constitution as possible. Local Treatment,—For syphilitic eruptions, the warm, vapour, and sulphur baths will be often expedient. Obstinate patches of lepra or pimples may sometimes have their removal hastened by ung. hydr. nitratis diluted, or the ung. hydr. precipitati albi, or the ung. picis. Itching eruptions may often be relieved by a weak lotion of corrosive sublimate. Ulcers must be treated according to their condition, whether inflamed, irritable, or indolent. In general, weak mercurial applications, such as black wash, or weak red precipitate ointment, * Vide Dr. Bateman's case, Med. Chir. Trans, vol, ix.; CoUes' Lectures on Surgery, vol. ii. 242.