179 HYDROPHOBIA. viscidity of the saliva, to which may be added perfect insensibility to pain. As it approaches its termination, the eye becomes dull; the hind legs first, then the muscles of the jaws are paralyzed, and at length the poor animal dies exhausted. But there are some cases in which paralysis of the muscles of the mouth and jaws is a vei y early symptom ; the mouth being open and the tongue protruding. A poor dog in this condition will plunge his muzzle into Avater up to the very eyes in order that he may get one drop into the back part of his mouth to cool his parched throat. This form of the disease is generally called dumb madness. The usual duration of rabies is from four to six days. The post-mortem appearances show merely the effects of the malady, in various degrees of congestion of the mucous membrane of the respi- ratory and alimentary surfaces. The tongue, often torn and bruised, and covered with filth; its papillse prominent and reddened, the mu- cous follicles about the fraenum enlarged. In the dumb madness, the tongue hangs from the mouth, and is swelled and dark-coloured. The fauces show a more or less partial blush, and the epiglottis and larynx are usually much injected. The trachea, bronchi, and lungs are some- times much congested, sometimes the reverse. The stomach generally shows vivid redness, or sometimes patches of ecchymosis on the summit of its rugas; the brain, intestines, bladder, and heart display no ap- preciable or constant morbid signs whatever. Perhaps one of the most characteristic evidences of rabies that dissection affords is the presence of a peculiarly-mingled mass of hay, and hair, and straw, and earth, and excrement in the stomach, or peihaps in the fauces, where it may have lodged from defect in the power of deglutition.* Causes.—The cause of this malady in dogs is most frequently a bite from another animal already diseased ; yet it seems occasionally to arise spontaneously. It has been ascribed to close confinement, rank unwholesome food, want of the couch grass, the natural medicine of the dog, and deprivation of sexual intercourse. It has epidemic fits of prevalence, and has been very severe in Liverpool this year, 1864. Besides the dog, hydrophobia infects the wolf, jackal, badger, and cat. But it may be communicated to many other mamniiferous animals, and there is no doubt but that every animal capable of taking the disease can also propagate it. This is equally true with regard to human beings as to animals. MM. Magendie and Breschet inoculated two healthy dogs on the 9th of June, 1813, with the saliva of a man who was labouring under the disease, and who died of it the same day at the Hotel Dieu. One of the dogs ran away, but the other was affected with decided rabies on the 27th of July following, and died of it; and some other dogs, which it was made to bite, died also. Well- authenticated cases are recorded, in which the disease was com- municated to man by pigs and horses; and there is no doubt but that it would be so much more frequently, if it were the instinct of herbi- * See The Dog, by W. Youatt, Loud. 1845.