GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF REGIONS. return. The late Mr. Guthrie observes, in his Commentaries, that this should not be elone unless the vessel bleeds, " as baemon hage once arrested may not be renewed." A case occurred in the Crimea under Mr. Matthew which shows that even this rule will not always be the best for the patient's welfare, unless he can be kept under close obser- vation, and free from disturbance.* In wounds of the interosseous arteiy of the arm, owing to the difli- culty in getting at the vessel situated beneath the deep Hexors of the forearm, surgeons have been induced to tie the brachial in preference to the more difficult and tedious operation of securing both ends of the interosseous. Mr. Partridge in two separate cases tied the brachial at King's College Hospital for wounds of the interosseous, and in both instances the haemorrhage was entirely arrested, and the patients did well. For similar reasons, in wounds of the palmar arch, it is better to tie both radial and ulnar; or should it be found that pressure on these fail to arrest the haemorrhage, to proceed at once to tie the brachial, i-ather than explore beneath the palmar fascia for the cut ends of the bleeding vessels. SECTION V.—GUN-SIIOT INJURIES ON THE HEAD AND FACE. ■ Gun-shot Injueies of the Skull are the most unsatisfactory and fatal class of cases which it falls to the lot of the military surgeon to treat. To diagnose the extent of injury intlicted is often very difficult, and yet a correct appreciation of the nature of the wounds, and the parts implicated by them, is of paramount importance. Balls striking the skull usually cause fracture at the point they impinge against, and thus, cases of fracture of the base fi om contre coup are of rare occur- rence in military practice. Simple flesh wounds of the scalp may be produced by the grazing of a fragment of a shell or musket ball. These injuries, if not severe, soon get well under simple dressing and quiet. If, however, there is much laceration of the scalp, suppuration and burrowing of pus is apt to occur, and death of a portion of the external table of the skull often results. * A man was brought in on the evening of the battle of Inkermann who had been shot through the lesj at the junction of the middle and lower thirds. He had lost a large quantity of blood, and it was evident that the posterior tibial artery had been wounded, but it did not then bleed. The exhaustion was excessive. He was placed in a tent, with a pledget of lint on the wound, the leg bandaged and kept elevated, and an orderly left to watch him. On the following morning the pad of lint was removed, but no haemorrhage took place. As the wounded had to be removed from camp to Balaklava, a dis- tance of seven miles, and thence to Scutari by ship, it w'as thought best to tie the vessel, notwithstanding it could not be made to bleed after all the bandages were removed from the limb. The operation was accordingly done, and it was found that a large portion of the calibre of the vessel had been shot away. Probably had not this operation been performed, secondary ha?morrhagp would have come on at some later period, and through the man's feeble condition have terminated fatally.