CUPPING. 729 head ; and some degree of pressure should be kept up on the wound for a week or ten days. Any subsequent bleeding or spurious aneurysm must be treated by completely dividing the artery, if it has not been done already, and by pressure ; but if the wound is much inflamed or ulcerated, so as not to admit of pressure, a transverse incision should be made on each side of it, and the artery be tied in both places. V. Cupping.—The patient being placed in a comfortable position, with towels arranged so that his clothes may not be soiled by the blood, and being moreover protected from cold, so that the flow of blood to the surfece may not be checked, and the operator having his scarificator, glasses, torch, spirits of wine, lighted candle, hot water, and sponge conveniently arranged on a table close by; the first thing is to sponge the skin well with hot water, so as to make it somewhat vascular. The operator next dries it with a warm towel, and adapts his glasses to the part. Their number must depend on the quantity of blood to be taken—from three to five ounces is a fair calculation for each glass. In the next place, he dips the torch in the spirit^ sets it on fire, introduces it for half a second into one of the glasses, and im- mediately claps the latter on the skin—and the same with the other glasses in succession. As soon as the skin has become red and swollen, I he charges the scarificator, and takes it between his right forefinger and thumb, at the same time holding the lighted torch between the little and ring fingers of the same hand. He then detaches one glass by insinuating the nail of his left forefinger under its edge—instantly discharges the scarificator on the swollen skin, and as expeditiously as \ possible introduces the torch into the glass and apphes it again. The ; same process is repeated with the other glasses. When they become ! tolerably full, or the blood begins to coagulate in them, they must be I detached in succession and reapplied, if blood enough has not been \ taken—and when the operation is finished, the wounds should be • closed with lint and plaster. There are several points connected with this operation that require notice. In the first place, the glasses must ; not be exhausted too much ; if they are, the pressure of their rims will I occasion severe' pain—the blood will not flow—and the operation will : very probably be followed by a considerable ecchymosis. Secondly, ; the position of the glasses must be slightly varied each time they are I applied, so that their edges may not again press on the same circle i of skin. Thirdly, the expediency of not burning the patient need I scarcely be hinted at. Fourthly, in taking off the glasses, the upper part of each should be detached first, so that the blood may not escape. Lastly, the length of the scarificators must be adjusted to the thick- ness of the skin ; for if the incisions are too deep, the fat will protrude through them, and prevent the flow of blood. The direction of the incisions should correspond to the course of the muscular fibres beneath ; but this is of no g]-eat consequence. For cupping on the temples smaller glasses and scarificators are employed. A branch of the tem- \ poral arteiy is generally wounded, and the flow of blood may be expedited by slightly lifting the lower part of the rim of the glass.