VARICOSE VEINS. 361 prospect of success if only one or two large trunks are affected; but not if all the minor cutaneous veins are enlarged also. There are several ways of effecting this. 1st. Some years ago Sir B. Brodie recom- mended division of the vein by suhcutcmeous section, in the following way. A long, curved, narrow-pointed knife, like a bistoury, but cutting on the convex edge, was introduced by the side of the vein, and carried horizontally with its flat surface between it and the skin. Then the convex edge was turned towards the vein, in order to cut through it, as the knife was withdrawn. 2ndly. Mr. Watson, of New York, recommended, in some cases, excision of a portion of the affected vein. Then, 8rdly, there is a method which was introduced by Mr. Cart- wright, and improved by Mr. Mayo, of destroying a narrow slip of skin across the vein by a paste of potassa fusa and quicklime, in order to cause slight inflammation of the vein, with coagulation of the blood in it, and obliteration of its cavity. 4thly. Pressure by means of a firm pad and bandage may be used for the same purpose. 5thly. The twisted suture. The surgeon pinches up the vein between his left forefinger and thumb, and passes a needle behind it: it is a good plan also to pass another at right angles, which should be made to transfix the vein twice, and should go behind the first; a thread is then to be twisted around them tightly enough to stop the circulation ; and this may be done at as many places as the surgeon thinks requisite. The points of the needles should be cut off. They should be allowed to remain till the blood in the vein is solidified, or until they have produced slight ulceration. 6thly, Mr. H. Lee has adopted with good effect a subcutaneous section of the affected vein, at a part between two of the needles. In varicocele and varicose veins, Mr. Wood has employed with great success a plan by which the inclusion of skin as well as of the vein in the ligature, and, consequently, much pain and soreness is avoided. A piece of small iron wire and a peculiarly formed pin are employed. The pin is straight at the point, and spear-shaped, like a hare-lip pin. At the other end it is bent into a right angle, upon which a loop is twisted, terminating in another round loop for convenience of handling