OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 748 the subclavian artery gives origin to a branch of considerable size, which becomes the posterior scapular. When this arrangement is present, the main trunk must be secured on the cardiac side of the branch, or if that endangers the pleura by its contiguity the branch also must be tied. Both subclavians may rise higher in the neck, an inch or more above the usual position, which is just a little above the clavicle; and the right is the more subject to this variation. The vessel may readily be felt in the lower division of the posterior triangular space of the neck, immediately behind the clavicle ; and here it may be compressed by the fingers. The patient should be laid on a table, with the shoulder of the affected side drawn downwards and forwards as far as possible, and the head turned to the other side. An incision must then be made above and parallel with the clavicle, three or four inches in length. It should cut through the skin and platysma, and should extend from over the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid to the trapezius. The preliminary incision may be conveniently made by drawing down the skin, and cutting through it while it is steadied on the clavicle. The external jugular vein will probably now be seen, and should be drawn with a blunt hook, to whichever side is the more convenient, and if need be, tied with a double ligature, and cut. The clavicular portion of the mastoid muscle, if unusually broad, should be severed. Perhaps it will be best to do so in all cases. The knife must now be used very sparingly to divide the fascia, and if it can be dispensed with altogether, so much the better, and the dissection continued by tearing, scratching, and picking with directors and probes, some of which should have points like knitting-needles. The omo-hyoid muscle must be sought for and drawn up. Here, in a space bounded above and externally by this muscle, internally by the sterno-mastoid, and below by the clavicle, are the artery and the brachial plexus of nerves. The omo- hyoid varies in its position ; sometimes it runs close to and parallel with the clavicle, and then without great caution the dissection might be made above the muscle. It may have a partial attachment to the clavicle, or get its entire origin from this bone; or may be very high, or altogether absent. The supra-scapular, and even the transversalis colli arteries may be met with, and must be drawn aside. The great landmark, the anterior scalenus muscle, must be searched for with the forefinger, and be traced to its insertion in the rib, which is marked by a bony tubercle usually evident to the finger. The precise position of the artery will then be ascei tained, and the fascia and areolar tissue that cover it should be carefully torn through. It it is now that the use of dividing a portion of the sterno-mastoid is apparent. Some of the lower branches of the brachial plexus of nerves always appear first, and are very likely to be taken up instead of the vessel; but the peculiar aspect of the artery should be well looked for in order to avoid this mistake. Indeed the appearance of the artery and the cessation of the wrist pulse when it is pressed upon by the