EHINORROaA. 478 cancer, encysted tumours, or any other sort of tumour which projects and has a narrow neck, may be called by the same name. For instance, The hydatid polypus, a rare variety, described by Sir A. Cooper as consisting of a number of thin vesicles filled with a watery fluid, and attached by a peduncle, bursting upon the slightest pressure. Sir A. Cooper recommended that the peduncle should be touched with a hair- pencil dipped in butter of antimony. IV. Cancerous Tumours, projecting into the nasal cavities from the antrum or the adjoining parts, have been described as fungoid or carcinomatous polypi. Rapidity of growth, a bleeding fungating sur- face, and pain and signs of cachexia, will probably be diagnostic marks sufficient to deter the surgeon from attempting evulsion with forceps. It must be remembered that soft cancer oi'iginating within the cranium may come down through the ethmoid into the nose. V. Rhinorrhcea, or Oz^ena, so called from its foetor, signifies a purulent or sanious discharge from one or both nostrils. Like otorrhoea, it is but a symptom, and it will be necessary to consider the morbid conditions on which it may depend. 1. Catarrhal Rhinorrhosa.—The writer has seen very many cases, in which patients of delicate constitution, after a tedious common catarrh, have been troubled with most profuse and obstinate purulent discharge from the nasal cavities, often very fetid in the morning j attended with great weight and stuffing in the head, copious flow of tears, frontal headache, }'elaxed throat, cough, and general signs of debility ; but more especially great depression of spirits. Sometimes, under such circumstances, the mucous membrane swells into red fleshy eminences. In a case in which the writer was consulted this year, a portion of the swelled mucous membrane had been mistaken for polypus, and it had been proposed to extract it. This state of things is often accompanied with catarrhal deafness. The treatment is easy, and includes removal to a dry bracing atmosphere, aperients, bark with mineral acid, and the inhalation every evening of the steam of boiling water, to which twenty or thirty drops of creosote have been added. For the mode of inhaling, see Chap. XV. 2. Scrofulous Rhinorrhcea generally begins early in life, and depends on inflammation or ulceration of the mucous membrane. It may be a consequence of the catarrhal variety, or may follow some fever, or may begin spontaneously. The discharge is more fetid in itself; and not only so, but it is mixed with exudation, and collects in the upper part of the nasal cavities, and there putrefies, giving rise to an odom- that causes the patient to be a nuisance to ail about him. If the case goes on from bad to worse, the bones may be implicated; either the septum may be eaten through, which is of little consequence, or the nose may sink in, and the same hideous deformity may ensue that was formerly not uncommon in secondary syphilis. Treatment.—The writer has often been surprised at the inefficient treatment pursued in these cases; in which, although there is no danger to life, yet the nauseous efflu- vium that issues from the patient renders him a pest to himself and all