372 COMPKESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. Mr. Prescott Hewett, that injuries are often accompanied with extrava- sation within the cavity of the arachnoid ; and that the blood may coa- gulate, forming a thin layer, which adheres and becomes vascular like a false membrane. 3, in the substance of the brain. The diagnosis between the symptoms of concussion and those of compression is a sort oipons asinorum and bugbear to young students, who are often led to expect sharply-drawn distinctions which are seldom found in practice. Moreover, it is often confused by ideas that the injury in concussion is immaterial; whereas, as we have before said, the real condition of a concussed brain is one of contusion and ecchymosis, which may produce symptoms of their own. The leading points of distinction are obvious enough. 1st. The symptoms of concussion always follow the accident imme- diately ; those of compression from effusion of blood may come on after an interval. " The first stunning or deprivation of sense," says Pott, " may be from either: no man can tell from which ; but when these first symptoms have been removed, or have spontaneously disappeared, if such patient is again oppressed with drowsiness or stupidity, it then becomes most probable that the first complaints were from concussion, and that the latter are from extravasation." 2ndly. In concussion the pulse is feeble, the skin pale, and the respiration sighing and feeble; and the greater the insensibility the feebler will the pulse be. In com- pression, on the contrary, when reaction is thoroughly established, the pulse will be slow and full, and the skin hot and perspiring. 3rdly. Stertorous breathing and muscular palsy are rare in mere concussion, common in compression. 4thly. The pupil in concussion is variable: sometimes contracted, sometimes dilated, and not always insensible to light; in compression, it is almost always dilated and insensible, and sometimes unequal on the two sides. Treatment.—The head should be shaved and examined, and if there is no sign of fracture or injury, the case must be treated as one of apoplexy; the indications being to avert inflammation, and procure absorption of the blood by cold applications to the head, calomel, and purgatives in repeated doses. If, in spite of the above measures, the insensibility continues, and the lungs become clogged with mucus, and the breath escapes from the corner of the mouth with a peculiar whiff during expiration (like that of a smoker), showing paralysis of the portio dura and pressure upon the meso-cephalon, which ai-e very peri- lous symptoms, the last resource — and under these circumstances, it must be confessed, a very desperate one, and one which modern surgeons become daily most unwilling to resort to,—is trephining. The trephine should be rather large, because the blood is almost aiwavs found coagulated. Perhaps the inner table maybe found exten- sively fractured, with only a mere fissure of the outer table. An explo- ratory incision may be first of all made at the seat of injury ; or, if that be unknown, over the parietal bone on the side, opposite to the paralysis, if any, and over the course of that branch of the middle menin- geal artery which may be supposed to furnish the hjemorrhage.