LITHOTOMY. 657 This, as Mr. Fergusson pointed out in his late lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons, is particularly liable to be the case with children in whom the bladder is more an abdominal than a pelvic organ. The operator does not get into the bladder. Instead of insinuating his finger through a wound in the prostate, and between it and the stati', he pushes the prostate before him, and tears it from the membranous part of the urethra. In seizing the stone, if not caught at the first gush of urine, care must be taken not to grip the bladder with it. The forceps should have long blades, curved so as to retain the stone without undue pres- sure. They may be lined with linen, which aifords a firmer hold, and takes up less room, and is less likely to crush the stone than the me- tallic teeth usually employed. 1 The extraction of the stone resembles a problem in midwifery. As i the OS uteri must not be allowed to come down before the child's head i and get jammed between it and the pubes, so the surgeon must not Idrag down the prostate in front of the stone, and jam it against the ramus of the ischium. It may be useful, says Mr. Fergusson, to push it back over the forceps with the left forefinger. Moreover, the ; extracting force must be dii-ected downwards and backwards where the interval between the bones is the largest; and, as Mr. Thompson well observes, should be employed slowly and tenderly to stretch but not to tear. If the stone is so large that it will not pass, there is the choice of crushing it, by a huge lithotrite, or by a screw instrument invented by Haynes Walton. Large stones are dangerous on account of the ma- nipulation required to extract or crush, and the high operation is })roposed for such cases. A surgeon in America finding himself unable to extract a stone by the perinseum, immediately cut into the bhvdder above the pubes, and extracted it that way. The patient recovere<]. If the stone is adherent, or encysted, the finger-nail and the scoop must be employed to detach it. If pouched behind the prostate, a finger in the rectum may lift it within reach of the forceps. If grasped by the bladder behind the pubes it may be brought down by injecting with warm water. The varieties of this operation before alluded to are as follow.