MEANS OF PKODUCING INSENSIBILITY. 722 effectual and more safe. Ether is much less pleasant than chloroform, more irritating to the air-passages, and more apt to be followed by headache and other unpleasant symptoms, of which the persistent taste and smell of it in the breath are not the least. It is less rapid in its action, and therefore less convenient in practice; but it has this important property, that it seems not only not to depress, but to exalt the action of the heart, even when administered for a considerable time; in fact, if it kill, it is by suspension of the breathing, and not by palsy of the heart. It is said to produce complete muscular relaxa- tion more perfectly than chloroform, so that it is perhaps preferable in cases of hernia, dislocation, and spasm. It would be proper to use ether, therefore, in cases in which there is any doubt of the heart's soundness. The writer generally uses a combination of it with chloro- foi-m in equal proportions in midwifery; but perhaps a mixture of one part of alcohol, two of chloroform, and three of ether, proposed by Dr. G. Harley, is the most advantageous, as it evaporates equally. The Dutch liquid, or compound of chlorine and olefiant gas, so called because discovered by the Dutch chemists in 1795, resembles chloro- form in its general effects, and is only about one-half so powerful or rapid in its action. It is not easy to procure. A mixture of equal parts of chloroform and alcohol has caused death in America. Amylene, a liquid hydrocarbon, was iised by Dr. Snow in 238 cases: its anaes- thetic powers were satisfactory, and it caused voniiting in two only out of the 238 cases, although chloroform caused it in 22 per cent. But its odour is abominable, and it destroyed life in two out of the 238 cases. Bisulphuret of carbon is a powerful, but uncertain and disagreeable agent. Dr. H, Bigelow, of Boston, removed a breast, with the aid of sixty quarts of nitrous oxide gas, " consumed during six minutes, and pro- ducing a most tranquil and complete insensibility."* There is a compound, F. 206, which the writer constantly pre- scribes in cases in which a strong narcotic stimulant is desirable. Two drachms of camphor dissolved in an ounce of ether form a liquid, of which a little may be put on a handkerchief, and inhaled in nervous headaches, brow ague and other forms of neuralgia, colic, uterine cramp dui ing pregnancy, &c. Means of producing local Anesthesia.—Something is desired which shall produce perfect insensibility of the part to be operated on, and yet leave the brain in possession of its faculties. Very many ex- periments to this end have been made by Dr. Simpson, who has found that the strongest preparations of opium, aconite, belladonna, tobacco, and Indian hemp produce no appreciable insensibility when applied to the human skin; and although prussic acid rubbed on the gums, and the vapour of chloroform applied continuously to the skin, produce some numbness, yet still they are not sufficient to render a cutting * See Med. Chir. Trans., voL xlvii.; Cbapman, Westminster Review, Jan. 1859 ; Anstie, op. cit.; Dr. Kidd on Anaesthetics; and Papers in Med. Journals, 1863.