STKANGULATED HERNIA. 561 applications are incautiously used after it ; and, above all, it may be tlie excuse for injurious delay. Certainly it should not be used if painful. {g) Purgatives and enemata are irritating and mischievous in sudden acute strangulation, but vastly beneficial if the patient is aged, the hernia large and long irreducible, and if the attack has been preceded and caused by constipation. Large doses of calomel and colocynth are the best purgatives, and the enemata should consist of as much gruel or water as can be injected without causing A'^ery much pain or disten- sion. Moreover, Dr. O'Beirne* has fully shown that greater benefit is to be derived in cases of incarcerated hernia and obstinate constipation from passing up a long tube (the tube of a stomach-pump answers very well) into the colon, than from the use of the ordinary short enema- pipe. The long tube relieves the bowels of their flatus ; and of course by diminishing the bulk of the contents of the abdomen, renders the return of the hernia more easy.f Operation not to be delayed.—In old standing cases, occurring to aged people with large herniae, the surgeon may be justified in waiting some time to try the effect of his remedies; but in acute cases occur- ring to young people, we would earnestly inculcate the rule that if the taxis, aided by chloroform or opium, do not very speedily succeed, it is the safest plan to perform an operation for dividing the stricture with- out further delay. It is very well remarked by James of Exeter,J that time is of the most extreme value in the treatment of strangulated hernia. The earlier the taxis is tried, the more likely it is to succeed ; before the bowel has been long and strongly nipped, and thickened by congestion. The same may be said of an operation. The operation that may be perfoimed may be either the old one of opening the sac, dividing the stricture, and returning the intestine; or secondly, the plan of division of the stricture, without opening the sac ; or thirdly, Mr. Gay's operation for limiting the incisions to parts in- vesting the neck of the sac. The manner of operating for each variety of hernia will be found in the following sections. . Here we make a few observations applicable to the subject generally. 1. Supposing the sac to he opened, the intestine should be well exa- mined, and especially that part of it which has been actually com- pressed by the stricture, and which should be gently drawn down for that purpose. If it be merely dark claret-coloured from congestion, or slightly roughened with lymph, or if it exhibit a few black patches of ecchymosis, it should be returned—the operator being careful to re- place it bit by bit—intestine before omentum—and those parts first which protruded last. The wound may then be closed with sutures, and a firm compress be placed upon it. 2. If the hernia were irreducible long before it was strangulated, * James O'Beirne, M.D., New Views of Defecation. Dublin, 1833. t Vide Lancet, July 6 and 27, 1839 ; also James's Eetrospeclive Address, in Prov. Med. Trans., 1840 ; and O'Beirne on Defecation. % Ou the Operations for Strangulated Hernia. Lond., 1859. D 2 O