383 LUMBAR ABSCESS. and abstinence from books. 2. Whilst the back is weak, it ought never to be subjected to the dead-weight of the body.* The patient should take as much out-door, foot, or horse exercise as her strength will allow ; but when not moving, she ought to be lying down on the floor, or on any convenient hard couch, and not sitting or standing upright. 3. A gentle course of gymnastic exercises, calculated to bring the left arm into play, may be useful. 4. Mechanical support may be required in severe cases; and the best way of applying it seams to be by a circular well-padded iron girdle, to be buckled round the pelvis, to which is attached a crutch, by which the axilla of the de- pressed side can be supported and gradually raised, whilst a broad band passes over the convex side of the chest, and forces it back into its proper position. The author has devised a chair, with supports for the shoulders, so that they can be kept at the same level, and in the same vertical plane; whilst it allows of free motion of the body back- wards and forwards.! II. Angular Curvature [Pott's Curvature) is produced by soft- ening and absorption, or caries of the bodies of the vertebrae—a disease which generally affects scrofulous children or adults. It usually begins with symptoms that indicate irritation of the spinal cord, such as weak- ness, coldness, and numbness of the legs, and incapability of taking ex- ertion ; and these symptoms are followed by twitchings and spasms of the legs, and afterwards by palsy. The bowels are costive ; and there is difficulty sometimes of passing, sometimes of retaining, the urine, which is generally pale and alkalescent. Children rarely complain of much pain or tenderness in the back; but if the patient is an adult, there is generally a heavy dull aching pain, aggravated by motion, to- gether with great tenderness on pressure ; and a peculiar dead sicken- ing sensation like that of a carious tootli, if a smart blow be struck on the diseased part with the knuckles. Great distress is sometimes caused if the patient seats himself quickly (or bumps down into a chair, as the vulgar say), so as to shake the spinal column ; and this will sometimes elicit a complaint from childi-en, who give no other sign of pain or tenderness. If the disease is situated in the dorsal vertebras, it will moreover be accompanied with tightness of the chest, and difficulty of breathing; and if in the cervical, one or both arms may be palsied, and there will be a difficulty of supporting the head, which the patient steadies with his hands whenever he moves about. As the disease advances, the trunk becomes curved forwards, and the spinous processes of the diseased vertebras project backwards ; so as to cause great deformity. Perhaps abscesses, of the chronic scrofulous sort, form, and if so the patient will exhibit great constitutional derange- ment and hectic. Consequences.—1. In favourable cases, the diseased bones collapse * Jackson, the pugilist, used to say that he knew an infallible plan for making any child crooked; viz., Let it bolt its victuals and stand on one leg. Mayo's Philosophy of Living. t It is made by Spratt, of Brook Street, Hanover Square.