528 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. sion simply consists in shaking the patient, when (inasmuch as both air and fluid have escaped from the lung into the pleural cavity) the fluid will be heard to splash, if the ear is applied to the chest at the level of the fluid. If there is fluid in the cavity of the pleura and air besides, the clearest parts on percussion will always be uppermost, in whatever posture the patient may be. The metallic' tinkling is a clear sound, lil^e the dropping of water into a cask. It is produced when the patient coughs, by which means a drop of fluid is shaken from the orifice in the lung, and made to fall to the bottom of the chest. 3. It may be a consequence of the escape of air from a wounded lung, after the external wound through the parietes of the chest has been closed. Treatment.—So far as the mere surgical treatment of this symptom is concerned, if the breathing become very difficult, with a distended and tympanitic condition of the diseased or injured side of the chest, a small trocar may be introduced between the fifth and sixth ribs, to let the air escape. II. HEMOTHORAX, which signifies the presence of blood in the pleural cavity, may be suspected if great dyspnoea and dulness on percussion follow a fractured rib, or if it come on rapidly after closure of a wound in the chest. The blood may proceed either from the intercostal artery, or from the lung. Treatment.—If the difficulty of breathing be very urgent, a punc- ture must be made to let the blood escape. III. Hydrothorax, or dropsy of the chest, is indicated by great difficulty of breathing, especially on lying down—livid countenance —disturbed sleep—dulness on percussion. It is usually a sequel of disease of the heart. IV. Empyema signifies abscess of the chest, or suppuration of the pleura. It is an effect of inflammation, whether idiopathic, or caused by injury; or else of the bursting of abscesses of the lung, in which case it will be accompanied with pneumothorax, or of the bursting of abscess in the vicinity. The signs are enlargement of the side of the chest—sepa- ration of the ribs—dyspnoea—difficulty of lying on the sound side—heart displaced to the right side, if the effusion be on the left. V. Paracentesis.—There are three cases in which it may be ex- pedient to withdraw the fluid from the pleura. First, a patient after an attack of phthisical pleurisy may go on for months with a large collection of serum in the cavity. The health improves up to a certain point; but the fluid remains unabsorbed, and the breathing is too limited for any useful purpose of life. Secondly, the effusion may be so great as to threaten death by asphyxia. Thirdly, the liquid, instead of being noxious by its bulk, may be so by its properties. There may be pain, and tendency to point at a particular spot; and there may be the shiverings and other hectic symptoms which indicate the absorption of decomposing pus. In either of these three cases an operation is expedient. The simplest operation is to puncture the skin between two ribs, say the fifth and sixth, where nearest the sui-face, that