417 DISEASES OF THE IRIS. 3. The rheumatic iritis arises under the conditions that cause the development of rheumatism in other organs. It differs from the syphi- litic variety in the fact that there is less tendency to the deposit of lymph on the iris, and in the anterior chamber. The iris becomes dull and discoloured, without shovnng nodules of lymph, yet the pupil is more likely to become irregular and adherent; and the adhesion is, too, for the most part more general. Occasionally a little ring of fibrinous matter is deposited on the capsule of the lens, just within the circle of the adherent pupil. It is from such deposits, the accumulated effects of many attacks of inflammation, that the eye becomes destroyed. The surface of the eyeball is more inflamed, and frequently of a purplish- red colour, consequently there is not the definite zone of sclerotic red- ness that is usually so clearly defined in syphilitic iritis. The cornea, especially the posterior elastic lamina, is prone to become more or less opaque in patches, remains of which opacity may be permanent. But there is no greater characteristic of the disease than its ten- dency to return, insomuch that a person may have an attack once or twice a year, or at longer intervals, during a long life, and this, even after the pupil has been closed by plastic material. It may be well to state that a white ring around the cornea is present in all inflamma- tions of the surface of the eye in which the cornea remains clear and vascular. 4. Scrofulous iritis.—This term may be used to signify either idiopathic iritis occurring in a scrofulous habit, and generally combined with corneitis; or else a deposit of cachectic lymph on the iris, which leads to scrofulous suppuration of the eyeball, or atrophy. Treatment,—The indications are, 1, to subdue inflammation; 2, to arrest the effusion of lymph, and cause absorption of what is already effused ; 3, to preserve the pupil entire; 4, to allay pain. 1. If the patient be strong, and the disease acute, with full strong pulse, and much fever, bleeding from the arm, or cupping from the temple may be requisite. The bowels must be well cleared, the anti- phlogistic i-egimen generally be observed, without bringing the patient into a state of debility, and blisters be applied after the most acute stage has subsided. 2. To fulfil the second indication, the principal remedy is mercury ; and the ordinary plan of administering it is to give gr. i.—ii. of calo- mel with gr. I—J of opium at intervals of six or eight hours. But a most salutary change has come over the practice of suigeons in the ad- ministration of mercury, as well as in the use of bloodletting. It is now some years since, in attending a case with Mr. Walton, that the writer learned from him, with much satisfaction, the efficacy of small doses in iritis; such as two or three grains of hyd. c. creta, combined with hyoscyamus or conium, and given twice, thrice, or perhaps four times in the twenty-four hours, and the doctrine that the curative effect of mercury is almost always to be produced, short of salivation, which may well be termed one of the poisonous effects. If the remedy be thus gently administered, the dose being lessened so soon as the mouth begins D 2 E