AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 775 former way is the more convenient if the amputation is low down; but the latter, if it is in the middle or upper third. In performing this operation in the latter way, the surgeon, standing as before, grasps the flesh on the anterior surface of the limb with his left hand, and lifts it * from the bone; then passes his knife horizontally through it—carries the point over the bone, pushes it through the other side of the limb as low as possible; then makes it cut its way out upwards and forwards, so as to make the anterior flap. In amputating the right thigh, the knife should be passed behind the saphena vein. It is again entered a little below the top of the first incision, passed behind the bone, brought out at the wound on the other side, and directed so as to make a pos- terior flap in the direction of the dotted line. Each of the flaps should be, in length, rather more than the semi-diameter of the limb at the point operated upon, and the posterior rather longer than the anterior to allow for the greater retraction of the hamstring muscles. Four inches is about the proper average length of the flaps from base to apex. Both flaps are now drawn back; the knife is swept round the bone to divide any remaining muscular fibres, and the bone is sawn through. In performing this operation Mr. Wood prefers to make the flaps oblique;—i. e. midway between the antero-posterior and lateral flaps, the/ro?^^ one being also a little external, and longer than the hinder flap. This secures a better drainage for the discharge, and insures that * This cut represents the surgeon as standing on the inner side; it is, how- ever, more convenient on the whole that he should stand on the outer side. The knife should be carried along close to the bone for an inch or more before it is made to cut the flap. Mr. Haynes Walton says that it is better to make the lower flap first, since thus, the integuments being relaxed, it is easier to shape out the upper flap accurately.