8 ACUTE TETANUS. would sincerely desire to have employed on himself if he were the patient. In the local treatment, the first points to be accomplished are, to remove all extraneous bodies from the wound, if there be one; to make incisions, if necessary, for the free dischai-ge of pus, or for the relief of inflammatory swelling and tension ; and if any isolated portion of nerve or tendon happens to be on the stretch, to divide it. Then the' part may be fomented with warm decoction of poppies ; after which, warm opiate or belladonna lotion may be applied on lint, and the whole part be enveloped in large hot poultices. Sundry other measures have been proposed in order more effiectually to remove local irritation; such as the division of the principal nerve leading from the wound ; or, as Mr. Liston proposed, the making a ^ incision above, so as to isolate it and cut off as much nervous communication as possible; or the destruction of a ragged, contused, ill-conditioned wound by actual cautery, as LaiTey and others have practised with great benefit; or the excision of the wound if cicatrized or nearly so. Sometimes, when the wound is nearly cicatrized, or has ceased to suppurate, the application of a blister or of strong stimulating ointments has appeared to be of service ; but, as Mr. Curling* observes, it happens, unfortunately, that the tetanic condition of the spinal cord, when fully established, is mostly independent of its local exciting cause, and does not cease on its removal. Hence amputation of the injured part has very rarely been successful, and has even aggravated the mischief; so that it ought not to be performed, unless desirable for some other reason besides the tetanus. Purgatives are indicated, if there is evidence that the liver and bowels are loaded, because a loaded state of bowels is known to be a cause of many morbid conditions of the nervous system, and because, possibly, they may eliminate some unnatural element in the blood. Thus, a powder of calomel and jalap mixed with butter may be put at the back of the tongue, for the patient to swallow, and may be followed in an hour with a large dose of castor oil; and enemata of turpentine may be administered until the desired effect is obtained, which is the ridding the bowels of black offensive matter. But it is not only useless, but mischievous, to irritate empty bowels, and bring away mere inodorous serum or mucus. The above are measures employed to remove causes, according to the first axiom in the treatment of all diseases. But after adopting such of these as shall be expedient, the next thing to be attended to, on which all authors agree, is the necessity of observing perfect quiet, and avoiding all irritation and disturbance. The room should be dark; the patient should neither speak, move, nor swallow oftener than he can help. The administration of remedies should be effected as gently as possible. Everything harsh and violent should be avoided. The cold affusion, and the extraction of a tooth in order to admit an oesophagus tube, have * A Treatise on Tetanus, being the Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1834, by T. Blizard Curling, London, 1836, p. 122.