713 CHLOROFORM. Mode of administration.—Dr. Simpson, the father of chloroformiza- tion, uses no apparatus whatever, but a simple handkerchief; and the writer^ from his own experience, thinks that this unpretending way is the best in all cases in which the slighter degrees only are required ; as, for instance, in common midwifery cases, and in cases in which pain has to be allayed without deep or protracted narcotism. It is equally safe, too, for the profounder degrees of insensibility required for severe operations, pi'ovided the administrant uses that degree of care without which no sane person would touch this remedy ; but it is rather more wasteful of the vapour. The patient should lie down. But if sitting, the attitude should be such as to allow of the completest repose; it, however, is much more difficult to narcotize a person sitting. He should be encouraged to be as tranquil as possible, and compose himself to sleep. A napkin should be folded into a hollow cone, and twenty minims of chloroform, by measure, be poured into its apex; then it shoidd be held about two inches from the face of the patient, who should be instructed to begin to breathe through open mouth, slowly and deeply, so as to inhale as much of the vapour as he can. If there is any choking, the napkin should be removed a little further. The narcotism should be insinuat- ingly begun ; so as to avoid any distressing gulping, or choking, or struggling, especially in the case of children. When the first twenty minims are exhausted, the same quantity should be repeated ; and this should be done again and again at intervals, till the requisite degree of narcotism is produced. So soon as the eye, when opened, looks suf- fused and heavy and turned up, and the patient scarcely speaks if spoken to, then the second degree is at its acme, and the third be- ginning. If the inhalation be continued, the degree of profound sleep, and next that of complete insensibility, will be established, and then, so soon, as Dr. Snow observes, as the eyelid can be raised, and the conjunctiva touched without winking, the surgeon may begin. When the operation is fairly commenced, it is not necessary to keep up so great a degree of narcotism. The patient having been secured against the first plunge of the knife, may be kept in a sufficient state of unconsciousness by an occasional whiff of the vapour, whenever his countenance exhibits any signs of feeling. In fact, during a protracted administration, when the patient is thoroughly narcotized, the vapour should be intermitted; the patient should for certain intervals be allowed pure air, and the chlo- roform be resumed from time to time when there is some approach to wincing- under the hands of the operator. The value of apparatus is, that they save the chloroform, and enable the surgeon {if the valves work well) to regulate the dose; but no valves or machinery can be substitutes for care and common sense. ensure Safety in the Administration of Chloroform? By Patrick Black, M.D., 1855 ; Further Remarks on the Cause and Prevention of Death from Chloroform. By John Snow, M.D., Lancet of Feb. 1856.