APPENDIX OF FORMULAE. 850 205. Combinations of Mercury with Tonics. R. Pilulae hydrargyri ^ij. ; feiri sulphatis exsiccati ; extract! opii gr. V. Misce; and divide in pilulas xx. ; quarum sumantur dua liora somni et una mane.—Bumstead. R. Hydiargyii cum creta |^ij.; quinae disulphatis manna; quantum satis est ut fiat massa in pilulas xx. dividenda.—Ibid. Corrosive Sublimate uith Cod Liver Oil. R. Hydrargyri corrosivi sublimati gianum ; asthei is sulphurici 3ss. ; solve, and adds olei Jeooris Aselli f^^iij. Dosis, 5ij., ter die. Ibid. The bottle must be kept closely corked. 206. Ether and Camphor for Inhalation. R. Camphor3e3j.; astheris ^ss. ; Misce. A few drops to be inhaled from a handkerchief in violent nervous headache, neuralgia, colic, uterine spasms during pregnancy, dysmenorrhcea, <^c. 207. Other Antisyphilitic, Antistrumous, and Absorbefacient Be medics. Certain remedies which seem to have the power of causing atrophy of morbid cell-growth, are of use alike in chronic inflamma- tion, thickening, chronic rheumatism, some ulcers, scrofula, and some tumours, especially of bone and fibrous tissue. They are, 1st, W€r- cury, F. 63, 66, 87, &c. ; 2, liquor potassse ; 3, certain salts of potass and soda, as the chlorate; 4, certain salts of ammonia, as the carbo- nate, chloride, and nitrate (see pp. 41, 42, and F. 197) ; 5, compounds of iodine, F. 94, &c.; 6, the analogous compounds of bromine; 7, cer- tain other metals, as gold and platinum. The writer advises that in obstinate syphilis, in nervous diseases, epilepsy, &c. (see p. 214), tumours, &c., these remedies be given perseveringly in alternation or conjunction, with some nuti ient or tonic. Thus, of a grain of the chloride of gold and sodium, in a pill (with a glass of sarsnparilla) thrice dailv ;—or a drachm of iodide of potassium, half a di-achm of bromide, and half a drachm of chloride of ammonium, to a wine-bottle of dis- tilled water, which the patient should take in a week in divided doses. Seaweed and its ashes should be used ; and laver be eaten as a vege- table at table. 208. Lithia. This is a good remedy for gouty persons, to carry off lithic acid in solution. The best form is Savory and Moore's "granulating effer- vescino- carbonate," in bottles at one shilling per ounce, combined with other ingredients that make a palatable effervescing drink at meals.