485 FISSURE OF THE PALATE. be produced by the action of the palatine muscles, and also that this must occasion a very serious impediment to any operation for uniting them by adhesion; but the muscular action by which the pips are brought together was a mystery till Mr. Fergusson showed that it was caused by the upper semicircular border of the superior con- strictor muscle of the pharynx ; and to him is due the credit of pro- posing that the muscles which tend to separate the flaps should be neatly divided, and of showing what the muscles are, which really need to be divided, viz., the levator palati, and the palato-pharyngeus. The operation is thus described by Mr. Fergusson:—''^ With a knife whose blade is somewhat like the point of a lancet, the cutting edge being about a quarter of an inch in extent, and the flat surface being bent semicircularly, I make an incision, about half an inch long, on each side of the posterior nares, a little above and parallel to the pala- The patient should be intelligent and quiet; and not under 12 or 14. Iced water for gargling, so as to check the bleeding, should be at hand. The parts must be well dissected from the hard palate, by which means * From a preparation of Mr. Fergusson's in the King's College Museum. t " If care be taken, in dividing the levator palati, not to run the knife towards the upper and back part of the pharynx, there is no harm to be dreaded from the incision above described. Were the instrument carried far upwards and backwards, the internal carotid would be in danger; but if its point be pushed straight outwards and forwards, it will sink into the pterygoid fossa, and possibly divide the tensor palati muscle, where it can come in contact with the external pterygoid process only."—Fergusson's Pract. Surg., 3rd edit,, p. 612. tine flaps, and midway across a line straight downwards from the lower opening of the Eustachian tube, by which I divide the levator palati on both sides, just above its attachment to the palate. ]• Next I pare the edges of the fissure with a straight, blunt-pointed bistoury, removing little more than the mucous membrane; then, with a pair of long, blunt- pointed, curved scissors, I divide the posterior pillars of the fauces, imme- diately behind the tonsil, and, if it seems necessary, cut across the ante- rior pillar too; the wound in each part being about a quarter of an inch in extent. Lastly, stitches are introduced by means of a curved needle set in a handle; and the threads being tied, so as to keep the cut edges of the fissure accu- rately in contact, the operation is completed."