230 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, ETC. Mr. Pritchard, in his able Surgical Address before the Brit. Med. Assoc., at Bristol, in 1863, advocated the use of caustic potass, as less liable to risk of pya3mia from entrance of matter into gaping vessels, and as more thoroughly softening the sloughs and insuring their dis- charge. CHAPTER III. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND BURS^. I. Simple Atrophy of muscle, with more or less fatty degeneration, may arise from want of exercise, however caused. Moreover, it some- times happens, that after a fever, or after injury, or disease, or exposure to cold, or after some affection of the nervous centres, one arm, or one leg, or both legs are smitten, as it were, with a blight. The affected member is always chilly; its skin is numb : it is imperfectly nourished, and decreases in bulk ; if the patient is young, it ceases to grow in pro- portion with the other parts of the body ; and its flexor muscles often become affected with rigidity, so that the joints are immoveably bent and contracted. Treatment,—Steel, quinine, cod-liver oil, and other tonics; warm clothing and liberal diet; stimulating frictions, affusion with cold water, passive exercise, shampooing, and electricity or galvanism, so as to keep the muscular fibrillae exercised. II. Inflammatory Spasm is a malady of which the commonest example is the stiff neck, or rheumatic inflammation and spasm which affect the muscles of the neck after exposure to cold, in persons whose blood is imperfectly purified. But it may affect any other muscles. Purgatives and fomentations usually soon produce a cure. We may remind the surgeon of the frequent recurrence of— III. Muscular Spasm as a symptom either, 1st, of irritation of the bowels or other internal organs ; or 2ndly, of disease in the nervous centres. Of the former class of cases, spasm of the sphincter ani, of the muscles of the hip, and of other parts in children whose intestines are loaded, are examples. Of the latter, the spasm which attends hemi- plegia, with irritation of the brain. ly. Rigid Atrophy is a state in which a muscle becomes short, rigid, and inextensible ; generally causing displacements and deformi- ties of the parts to which it is attached. Causes.—1st. It may be in- duced by long inactivity of the antagonist muscles ;—thus, after long- continued disease of the knee, the flexor muscles of the ham may become shortened and inextensible, keeping the joint permanently bent, and often dragging the tibia off from the condyles of the femur. 2ndly. It may be a sequel of habitual spasm, by whatever cause produced. Treatment.—In the early stages, friction, shampooing, and mecha- nical extension. But in cases of long standing, the only remedy that can