90 CHAPTER XIII. SECTION I.—SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS IN GENERAL. Definition.—Scrofula, or Struma, is a state of constitutional de- bility, with atenden-i-y to indolent inflammatory and ulcerative diseases. Description.—There are two varieties of scrofulous habits, which, although they agree in the main essential of constitutional debility, are yet totally opposite in many respects. In the first (or sanguine variety), the skin is remarkably fair and thin, showing the blue veins through it, and presenting the most brilliant contrast of red and white ; the eyes are light blue; the hair light or reddish, the fore- head ample, and the intellect lively and precocious. Sometimes, how- ever, as Mayo observes, the skin is dark and transparent, and the eyes dark, although there is the same general characteristic of delicacy and vivacity.* In the second (or phlegmatic') variety, the whole aspect is dull and unpromising; the skin thick and muddy; the hair dark ar.d coarse; the eyes greenish or hazel, with dilated pupils; the belly tumid, and the disposition dull, heavy, and listless to outward appearance ; although persons of this conformation will often be found to possess a clear, vigorous intellect, and powers of application far above the average. The gre;it Dr. Johnson is an example. In both varieties the natural functions are liable to be performed ir- regularly. Digestion is weak, the tongue often furred, and red on its tip and edges ; the upper lip swelled, from a kind of turgescence of the mucous membrane, whenever the health is worse than usual; the appe- tite soncetimes deficient, but more usually excessive, and attended with a craving for indigestible substances ; the mucous membrane of the throat and tonsils flabby; the bowels toi'pid ; the blood thin and watery ;—its coagulum soft and small; the muscles pale and flabby ; and the heart and arteries, as well as the intestines, thin and weak; the teeth decay early. In the sanguine variety, the growth is generally rapid, and the bodily conformation good, as far as outward form is concerned—the limbs well made, the stature tall, and the chest broad. In the phlegmatic variety, on the other hand, the growth is often stunted, the chin short, joints large, feet large and flat, chest narrow, legs bent with rickets, and puberty retai'ded, especially in the females, who are liable to prolonged chlorosis. Causes.—Scrofula being thus defined to be a peculiar state of the * Vide Mayo's Philosophy of Living, 2nd ed. 1838; Carmidiael's Essay on Scrofula, Lend. 1810 ; B. Phillips on Scrofula, Lend. 1846; Ancell on Tubercu- losis, Lond. 1852; Latham's Lectures on Clin. Med.; Carswell, op. cit.; the works of Addison of Malvern; Wedl, op. cit.; Rokitansky, op cit; Hughes Bennett on Scrofula and Tuberculosis, ed. 1856; Lebert, Anatomie Pathologique, vol. i. 1857.