ISSUES. 731 operation, he may use the very ingenious apparatus invented by Mr. Whitehouse, of Brighton, constructed by Weiss, and here depicted. It consists of a cup of glass or of metal plated, a flexible tube A, and a tube B, which is to be inserted into the vein. This last has an air- trap connected with it, so constructed that any bubbles of air would be detained in it, and be rendered visible to the operator. The blood is received into the cup, and allowed to fill the flexible tube and air-trap (which is emptied of air by being turned upside down), then the nozzle can be inserted into the vein. By raising the cup the force of the stream is increased, and it can be stopped in a moment by the finger and thumb of the operator.* VII. Acupuncture is easily performed by running in five or six needles with a rotatory motion. It is certainly very efficacious in some cases of neuralgia; but it is by no means easy to explain its operation. Acupuncture is also resorted to in anasarca, when the skin is much distended ; and we have spoken of its utility in hydrocele, ganglion, hydrothorax, and ascites, for the purpose of permitting the serum to exude into the cellular tissue. VIII. Issues may be made by caustic, or by incision, or by the actual cautery. The first may be made either by rubbing a portion of skin of the requisite extent with the potassa fusa, or by making a paste with equal parts of the potass and soft soap, and laying it on the skin till the latter is converted into a black slough. The parts immediately around the issue should be protected with several layers of stick- * The writer has to thank Mr. "VNHiitehouse for much vahiable information on the subject of this instrument. It may be mentioned that about the year 1836, Mr. Philpot, his partner, performed transfusion successfully with a common pewter syringe. Mr. Whitehouse recommends that the blood should be defibri- nated, by being beaten up with a fork, before it is injected, so as to avoid embar- rassment with clots.