239 DISEASES OF THE BONES. substance is withdrawn, the coilex being reduced to a thin shell, and the cancelli to a few fine threads with their interstices filled with fat. In this condition the readiness with which the bones become broken has given rise to the appellation fragilitas ossium. Atrophy may be caused by disuse and want of exercise simply; by disease of an adjacent joint; by interruption to the supply of arterial blood; (thus, after fracture with division of the medullary artery, the lower part of the tibia and femur, and upper part of the humerus, may undergo atrophy ;) by that peculiar defect of nutrition which sometimes causes all the structures of a limb to be withered and blighted ; (vide p. 17), by old age ; and by the peculiar state of the system which accompanies fatty degeneration, rickets, and mollifies ossium. II. Rickets, or Hachitis, is a peculiar unhealthy condition of the whole body, arising from hereditary taint, or else from defective hygi- enic conditions, and especially from want of fresh air and of bright light. It is frequently attended with scrofulous disease; but its leading characteristic is the imperfect development, atrophv, and dis- tortion of some or many of the bones. These are soft, and consist of " a sort of cartilaginous tissue, which will bend without breaking, and through which a knife may be readily passed." According to Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan, rickety bone has the structural arrangement of bone with- out the impregnation with earthy salts. The articular extremities of the bones are often disproportionately large. The shafts are unable to support the weight of the body without bending. In moderate cases, the ankles only may be a little sunk, or the shins bent, or the spine curved ; but in aggravated cases the physiognomy and general appearance are very peculiar. The stature is stunted; the head lai-ge, with a protuberant forehead. The fbntanelles are slow in closing ; the face small and triangular, with a very sharp- peaked chin, and projecting teeth ; the chest narrow and prominent in front, whence the vulgar term pifjeon-breasted; the spine va- riously curved; the pelvis small; the pro- montoiy of the sacrum and acetabula pressed together, rendering the cavity perilously small for child-bearing ; and the limbs crooked, their natural curves being increased. Hyper- trophy of the white substance of the brain, and persistence of tlie thymus gland to a later period than natural, aie said to be ac- companiments of rickets. This disorder gene- i-ally attacks the childien of the poor from the second to tne tentJi or