205 DIAGNOSIS OF CHANCRE. or if the matter be not taken till the tenth day, when it becomes opaque and ptiriform. An attempt has been made to prove that the pure vaccine \ jmj)h per se, without blood or pus, will only convey the vaccine disease and not syphilis. Surgeons, spite of facts, hang despe- rately to the skirts of their idol John Hunter, and strive to believe his dogma, that no two " actions " can go on in the same part at the same time. There seems to be no doubt, however, that vaccinia and syphilis may be implanted in the same puncture, and each follow its regular course. The patient is both vaccinated and syphilized.* 6thly. The transplantation of teeth, a thing begun in the last century, was put a stop to by the fact that syphilis was sometimes transplanted as well; thus proving the infection of the whole solids and fluids of the patient. Lastly, syphilis may be communicated by generation. (See Sect. X.) Treatment.—Whilst the chancroid or soft sore should be destroyed by caustic, it is generally agreed now that such a proceeding is useless in the common infecting chancre. It is of no use whatever as a means of preventing secondary symptoms; for Langston Parker and Diday have thoroughly destroyed chancres within a veiy few hours of their first appearance, and yet an indurated cicatrix, and indolent enlarge- ment of the nearest lymphatics have come on and been succeeded by secondary symptoms. Chancre generally heals of itself under rest, and any simple astringent application, in three to six weeks; especially the black wash, or calomel ointment, or, still more, the load calomel fumigation. Then the local lesion ceases to be an open sore. There is no doubt, also, but that a mercurial course in any case greatly hastens the healing of primary sores. Whether it have the power of averting secondary symptoms, we know not ; but as it may do so, and as it satisfies the patient's mind, it is perhaps better to use it. If there is any symptom of inflammation, spreading ulceration, or phagedsena, it must be treated as the chancroid. (See Section iii.) SECTION VI.—DIAGNOSIS OF CHANCRE AND AFFECTIONS THAT MAY BE MISTAKEN FOR IT. The surgeon will perpetually be consulted by men who come in great alarm to show some bteach of surface, after impure connection. If he recollect that true chancre may infect any such spot; and that it may lie latent for three, four, or six weeks; and that no destruction of an infected spot will save the constitution, he will take care not to pro- nounce his patient safe too hastily. He will recollect, also, that chancre may be the smallest hard discoloured spot, crack, fissure, &c., any- * For the most masterly resume of modern syphilography, especially in rela- tion to vaccination, see two papers in Med. Times and Gazette, 1862, vol. i. pp. 2t0 and 268, ascribed to Dr. K. Ballard. See also a short account by the author of a case which he observed at the Lariboissiere Hospital in Paris, in September 1863, with coloured drawings of the vaccino-syphilized arms, in the Obsiet. Trans., vol. v. p. 196.