SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 51 the blood, the fibrinous exudation becomes a creamy liquid called pus. 1st. In Abscesses.—When suppuration takes place in any cavity, or in the substance of the areolar tissue, or of any organ, an abscess is said to be formed. If the inflammation is of the variety called healthy or sthenic, or circumscribed, the centre only of the exudation will soften; the circumference will form a cyst, containing the liquid, and not allowing it to spread. If the inflammation is low, or unhealthy, as in erysipelas, the whole of the fibrine will probably soften into a puriform fluid, to be presently described, and the abscess will be diffused. 2nd. In open granulating wounds.—In the case of wounds and other injuries, in which a portion of the tissues is left uncovered by skin, or of wounds, which have not united by adhesion, the exposed surfaces, after bleeding has ceased, and a thin reddish serum has ceased to exude, become glazed over with a grayish or butfy coat composed of fibrine and the white coi-puscles of the blood. Two or three days pass, more or less; and the vicinity of the wound displays evidence of slight in- flammation. The ashy surface comes cfl"; under it is seen a granu- lating and suppurating surface. 3rd. On mucous membranes.—There can be but little doubt that the healthier a mucous membrane, the less mucus does it yield ; only enough to keep the surface moist and clean. Under irritation or debility, an increase of secretion ensues. Under acute inflammation, blood, or at least serum mixed with lymph, may be effused, part of the epithelial layer may be shed, and the epithelial cells multiply hastily, the pus which soon forms being composed of serum, and small ill- formed epithelial cells. Physiological relations of Suppuration.—1st. Suppuration is essen- tially a morbid process ; yet as it may accompany other processes which tend to a beneficial end (such as granulation), so it is customary to speak of it when accompanying such beneficial processes, as healthy, and to describe the product as healthy pus. Moreover, though suppuration be a morbid process, it often takes the place of other processes infinitely more morbid. Thus, after a very severe lacerated wound, when the patient has passed through several days of fearful constitutional ex- citement ; or after sloughing or rapid phagedsenic ulceration, nothing delights the surgeon more than the sight of healthy pus, because he knows that it announces at least an attempt at reparation, and the cessation of violent febrile excitement. 2ndly. The formation of ab- scesses often seems to serve as a means for eliminating some noxious matter from the blood. Srdly. Suppuration afiords a mechanical means of removing foreign substances impacted in the soft parts. Lastly, if too profuse, it may exhaust the vital powers; decaying pus may be absorbed and bring on hectic fever. Healthy Pus.-—Pus is a yellowish-white, opaque fluid, of the con- sistence of cream: free from smell, neither acid nor alkaline, said to have a sweetish, mawkish taste, insoluble in water, although freely miscible with it, and very slow to putrefy. It consists of a thin serum,