685 NEURALGIA OF THE BREAST. nancy ; or should apply every night a liniment composed of equal parts of rectified spirit and olive oil. VII. Acute Inflammation of the breast {Acute Mastitis) is known by great swelling, tenderness and |pain, and -fever. These symptoms are generally soon succeeded by formation of matter. The abscess, if confined by the fascial envelope of the organ, is very slow to point. This affiection may occur at any period during lactation. It may be caused by cold—by too stimulating a diet—by neglect in suck- ling—by irritation propagated from the nipples, and by a loaded state of the bowels and defective biliary and urinary secretion. The sudden- ness with which it may come on is sometimes surprising. A woman may get up apparently well; may be seized with shivering, pain, swelling of the breast, violent fever, and delirium ; and these symp- toms as suddenly subside when calomel and black draughts have cleared away some most offensive motions. Treatment.—At first a mild purgative, and fomentations; the milk should be drawn ofi', if it can be done without very much pain, and Dover's powder should be given to allay restlessness. The arm should be kept quiet in a sling. Three or four leeches, if great pain and good pulse. So soon as fluctuation is well established, a puncture should be made. And then efficient support should be given by ban- dages, or by cross strips of adhesive plaster, so as to take off the weight of the organ, compress the distended vessels, and prevent all bagging of matter. Likewise if, after leeches and purgatives, the tenderness and pain diminish, so that there seems a chance of resolution without sup- puration, similar support is most useful. The following cut shows the manner in which the breast may be suppoi ted by strips of plaster (but those represented are too short): a sufficient number should be applied to cover the entire breast, except the nipple, and they should be long enough to go over the shoulder, so as to suspend the breast, and not allow it to drop. VIII. Chronic Inflammation may be a sequel of the acute; or may be of a scrofulous nature. Swelling and considerable hardness of part, or of the whole of the breast, ending usually in burrowing sup- puration, are the characters ; tonics, pressure, and free puncture of abscesses in the most depending position at which they show a ten- dency to point, the remedies. IX. Neuralgia of the Breast may exist pur et simple; or may (as more frequently happens) be superadded to a small glandular tumour. Extreme pain, aggravated at each monthly period, and out of proportion to all local structural disease (if any) is the chai-acteris- tic. The treatment was detailed in the section on Neuralgia. X. The True Hydatid Disease consists in the development of a parent cyst, containing other secondary cysts, consisting of pai'asitic animalcules {echinococcus hominis) floating in a clear limpid water. It presents a globular oval hard tumour, attended with more or less pain, but no derangement of the general health. As it increases, fluctuation becomes perceptible, and the skin becomes distended and ulcerates. The