839 APPENDIX OF FORMULAE. it is soothing and deodorizing. It has since been recommended by an eminent French surgeon. Glycerine has very many uses in surgeiy. In the first place it is, per se, a capital thing if applied by means of a camel's hair pencil to diy and irritable surfaces; to chafings, excoriations, burns, cracked nipples, itching patches, &c.—external and internal; for example, a dry, chapped tongue, or irritable throat, or irritated rectum or vulva. Secondly, it seems to have penetrating and antiseptic qualities which fit it well as an application to phagedaenic and diphtheritic surfaces, hospital gangrene, cancerous and other rebellious ulcers. For diphtheritic soie throat it is admirable. In the next place, as it dissolves freely water and alcohol, and essential oils (but not fixed oils, fats, and resins), and most saline substances, it is a good adjunct to most lotions, vsoothing or astringent, in the proportion of one-third or fourth, as a substitute for that pio- portion of water. Or the glycerine may be used as the sole vehicle for other ingre- dients, as in the following formulie, which aie, for the most part, borrowed from M. Demarquay's interesting Ti eatise " De la Glycerine et ses Applications k la Chirurgie et la Medecine," Paris, Asi^elin, 1863 ; an Enghsh translation of which has appeared from the pen of Dr. W. Abbotts Smith. It may be remai ked that the glycerine should he pure ; and that Pi-ice"s is considered the best. The French designate the liquid compound ghjcerolcs ; and the solid, glycerats. Chloroform Liniment with Glycerine. R. Glycerine 3vij.; chloroform 5j. Misce in mortario. For lum- bago, neuralgia, &c. Tannin with Glycerine. R. Glycerine 3xv.; tannin 5iij. Misce, In vaginitis. If diluted with twice the quantity of glycerine, it may be used as an injection in gleet, and as an application in suppurative conjunctivitis. Glycerine may be combined with tincture of iodine, creosote, borax, and almost any other liquid: but there remains the solid glycerat of starch which is a capital basis for ointments, and may be substituted for lard or other fat. It is more penetrating, and dries less ; and is a con- venient medium for calomel, red precipitate, and other mercurial salts. The writer learned its use from Mr. H. Lee. Glycerat of Starch. Heat together 6 parts by weight of starch and 30 of glycerine, in a porcelain vessel, over a water-bath, stirring till the starch is com- pletely gelatinized. Another formula is 85 parts of glycerine, 5 of starch, and 10 of water. The result ought to be transparent, gela- tinous, and soft.