373 FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. When a piece of bone has been removed, the dura-mater, in its normal state is found to be level, and of a reddish-silvery colour, and it rises and falls synchronously with the motions of respiration ; but if there is fluid underneath, it bulges up tightly into the aperture made by the trephine, it is of a darker purplish colour, and its motions are very indistinct or entirely lost. In this latter case a puncture should be made to let the fluid escape ; and numerous instances are on record in which, after the surgeon has punctured the distended dura-mater, and some ounces of blood have escaped, the patient has recovered his consciousness immediately.* If on opening the dura-mater the blood should be found under the p'a mater, and, perhaps, in the substance ol the brain, the areolar membrane holding it should be carefully torn by the forceps, to permit the coagula and disorganized brain tissue to escape. Lastly, to quote from the valuable practical remarks of Mr. P. Hewett, supposing a man to fall—from a ladder, for instance—in a fit of apoplexy, care must be taken not to ascribe to the fall the effects of the disease which preceded it. SECTION IV.—FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. Fractures of the skull are caused by great violence, such as blows or falls on the head, and gun-shot wounds. If the blow be caused hya large blunt object, or by a fall on the head, it will most Lkely result in a widely ex- tended fissure, running perhaps across the vault or base of the skull, and tearing arteries, sinuses, or nerves in its way ; fracture of the base, for ex- ample, is common when the patient falls on his head from a height, so that the weight of the whole body tells upon the base of the skull through the spinal column. If the blow be caused by a sharp instrument, as a ham- mer, or pickaxe, or brickbat, it will probably cause a starred depression confined to the seat of injury. Sometimes the outer table will show a small hole, while the inner table will be starred and de- pressed in picula much more extensively, occasionally tearing the dura- mater and injuring the brain. The Symptoms and consequences of fracture of the skull depend on the conditions which accompany it; especially, 1. On the amount of * Guthrie, op. cit., pp. 39, 125; Brodie, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xiv.