HERNIA TESTS. 667 sarsaparilla, the iodide of potassium, cod-liver oil, nourishing diet, and tonics. III. Abscess of the testis may be a result of clironic or scrofulous inflammation—very rarely of the acute. A puncture should be made so soon as fluctuation is clearly felt, and the skin is adherent. And when the matter has been evacuated, the case should be treated by pressure, and in other respects like any other abscess. IV. Fungus, or Hernia Testis.—When the fibrous tissue of the testis has been perforated by abscess, a soft fungus, composed of the tubuli, and of flbro-plastic matter, is apt to protrude. This should be returned to its place by pressure with lint and strips of plaster; bi- chloride of mercury or iodide of potassium with tonics may be given to excite absorption of interstitial lymph if there is a syphilitic or scrofulous taint; and stimulating applications, such as the lunar caustic, should be used in order to excite granulation. Should this fail, Mr. Syme's operation should be resorted to, of making two semi-elliptical incisions ( ), one on either side of the fungus, removing the narrow edge of skin around the fungus, and then bringing the healthy skin from either side over it, and employing sutures and other measures for procuring adhesion. To shave off the protruding substance would be almost equal to castration. V. Scrofulous Inflammation commences with a deposit of so called "tubercle" into some part of the testis or epididymis, either into or be- tvveen the tubuli. A nodular swelling appears externally, attended with very little pain or tenderness, which after a time inflames and bursts, and gives exit to the fungous protrusion just mentioned. It often happens that the lungs are diseased as well. Treatment.— The health must be invigorated by cod-liver oil, bark, the iodides of iron and potassium, lotions of zinc, iodine, &c. (See p. 96.) When all the tubercular matter has been evacuated, the abscess heals of itself; but, before this occurs, the whole organ is often disorganized and ren- dei'ed useless, and sometimes it is necessary to remove it, on account of the irritation and drain on the system. VI. Atrophy of the testicle may be a result of excessive venereal indulgence, or of injury or of inflammation ; the part becoming fiUed with exudation, which degenerates, and in so doing annihilates the tubular structure, and is then itself absorbed. The gland may dwindle to the size of a pea. There is no cure. VII. Imperfect Descent of the Testicle.—This organ may either remain in the abdomen permanently, or may be stopped in the inguinal canal. The latter condition renders it extremely subject to pain and injury, and renders the patient liable to hernia. In order to prevent these evils, Mr. Curling recommends, that if the testis has not quitted the abdomen by the time the child is a year old, a truss should be applied to prevent it from coming down at all. When a testicle not fully come down, is complicated with hernia, an endeavour must be made to keep up the hernia by a small pad, which will keep the testis down. In cases, in which the testicle in this situation is