645 STONE m THE BLADDER. the pelvis raised on a pillow, and the bladder nearly, but not quite, full. In order to insure perfect quietness, and to prevent pain to the patient, he should be put under the influence of chloroform, and if the bladder is empty, tepid water should be injected. The sound should be care- fully moved about, to examine every part of the bladder, and if there is a stone of any size it will most probably be heard to strike and felt to grate upon it. If nothing, however, is discovered, the patient may be made to turn on one side, or to sit upright, or the finger may be passed into the rectum ; or a sound with the same abrupt curve as the litho- trite may be used to explore the bas fond of the bladder, behind the prostate; or a catheter may be introduced, and the stone may perhaps be felt to strike against it as the urine flows away. But if the symp- toms are well marked, the surgeon must not be contented with one unsuccessful examination. Diagnosis.—In sounding there are two errors to be avoided. First, that of assuming that there is no stone, when none can be felt. The chief circumstances which occasion difficulty in this respect are, enlarged prostate ; cysts or pouches, in which the stone can be hid; and small size of the stone. The second error is that of taking something for a stone which is not. Thus polypous or pendulous growths, portions of the bladder hardened, or rough from ulceration or from fibrinous deposit, or en- crusted with phosphates ; even the spine of the ischium, exostoses, and tumours of neighbouring parts, have at times been mistaken for stone. The symptoms of stone vary in severity:—1, according to its size and roughness; 2, according to the state of the urine; 3, according to the condition of the bladder, whether healthy or inflamed. They may be very slight for years; in fact, a little pain in micturition and bloody urine after riding may be the only inconveniences. But after a certain period the bladder becomes more and more in-itablc, and finally in- flamed ; the urine alkaline, and loaded with viscid mucus and phosphate of lime ; the strength fails ; and finally, after years of suffering, the patient sinks. The sources of vesical calculi are two :—1, the urine ; 2, the mucus of the bladder; and calculi are exceedingly liable to form from the latter source, if the prostate is diseased, or if foreign bodies are intro- duced into the bladder, so as to serve for nuclei. In these cases the stone is invariably phosphatic. The composition of a stone may be judged of, but not alvvavs ac- curately, by the state of the urine. Its size may be appreciated :— 1, by its composition, for the phosphatic are always the laigest; 2, by the time it has existed; 3, by observing the force i-equired to dislodge it from its situation; 4, it mny be measured by passino- the sound across its surface, or by the urethra forceps or lithotrite, oi- by Coxeter's hollow sound. Phosphatic stones are of quickest growth; they are softest and most friable. Uric and oxalic stones are of slow growth; they are hard, break into sharp fragments, and give a clearer rijig or click when struck with the sound than do the phos-