GENERAL HISTORY AND PATHOLOGY. 189 de Saliceto (1276), Lanfranc of Milan, John of Gaddesden, Doctor of Medicine in the University of Oxford, and author of a Treatise called Rosa Anglica, and Guido de Cauliaco, all flourishing before the end of the fourteenth century, describe ulcers, imposthumes, bubo, and pus- tules as arising from commerce with foul women. Moreover, the ex- istence of maladies which could be contracted and propagated by sexual commerce is proved beyond all possibility of doubt by regulations of the public stews such as those we have just refei'red to. Our fore- fathers were far too wise to allow loose women to parade the streets, and to sow disease broadcast, as we do in these modern Protestant moral days; equally were they too wise to attempt to suppress fornication altogether. But they shut up their loose women in stews or brothels, and put them under strict surveillance, including periodical medical ex- aminations, to make sure against contagious disease. The Statutes of the Stew, at Avignon, established by Jane Queen of the Sicilies and Countess of Provence, in 1347, enact, " that a public brothel should be set up at Avignon, and the wenches who ply there shall not walk the streets, but keep within the brothel, and wear a red knot upon their left shoulder. * * Tlie door to be kept locked, and no young man admitted without leave of the Abbess. * * That on every Saturday the women be singly examined by the Abbess and a surgeon, and if any of them have contracted any illness by their whoring, that they be separated from the rest, and not suffered to prostitute themselves, for fear the youth who have to do with them should catch their distempers.''* Whilst it is thus clear that some disorders existed in ancient times, which could be got from venery, and which we believe to have been identical with the gonorrhoea, and possibly with the soft or non-infect- ing venereal ulcer of the moderns—a disease which is formidable enough if we remember its phagedscnic varieties—it is equally clear that a new element appeared on the stage of modern civilized life be- tween the years 1494 and 1496, amongst the soldiers who were occu- pied under King Charles VIII. of France in besieging Naples. There is no doubt but that this disease was new to the physicians of Europe, for they all declared that they had seen nothing like it before, and stood aghast in ignorance how to treat it. Fallopius, who wrote about fifty years after its introduction, distinctly recognizes the diseases known to the ancients, and the new disease. The ancients, he says, saw in their times ulcers arise about the pudenda, which they called Heats; for writers before the venereal disease appeared, as Guido, mention them as arising from a person not cleansing the glans, or from his having to do with a woman that was menstruating. But I will affirm, he continues, that there is the greatest difference be- tween the French Pox {Caries GalUca) and these Heats. "True French chancres are to be distinguished from the others. Heats, excoriations, &c. are easily cured;—venereal ulcers not so quickly." This new disease evidently spread with great rapidity over the known world, and was everywhere recognized, and received names * Quoted in Astruc, op. cit., p. 60.