ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. 125 poultice, weak zinc or nitrate of silver lotions. 3. The astringent; as the lotions of iron and tannin, F. 128, 131; or poultice of bread and powdered matico. 4. The antiseptic ; as lotions of the chloride of lime or of zinc, or of creosote, or iodine ; of acetate or niti-ate of lead, or Condy's disinfecting fluid. We may add that poultices should not be applied too warm; and that care should be taken not to let the skin around become pimpled or excoriated, if it should, the tannin lotion, or bismuth ointment, are the best applications. A flat bag of peat charcoal, dry, and wrapped in flannel, may be laid over the wound, to absorb effluvia. 7. The general health and strength must be carefully looked to, since whatever disorders these will hasten the progress of tlie disease. Good diet, cod-liver oil, change of air, tranquillity of mind, and means for securing a proper action of the eliminative organs, will greatly aid in prolonging life, and in lessening the suflerings which our art cannot prevent. SECTION X.—ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. Under the term Elephantiasis, two dissimilar diseases have been con- founded : one, the Elephantiasis, so vividly described by Aretseus, the Elephantiasis Groecoruin, which begins by tubercular swellings of the face ; the other, the Elephantiasis Arabum, which we propose to de- scribe here. It consists in a slow hypertrophy of the skin, areolar tissue, and bones, and in their infiltration with a peculiar cacoplastic deposit. The epidermis is thickened and the papilla enlarged, hut not much: the true skin is immensely thickened : its fibrous structure dense and almost rigid : the areolar tissue thickened, its areolae expanded, and filled with oily or gelatinous-looking stuff. In cases which the writer has examined, the microscopical appearances were those of hypertrophy of the tissues involved. The bones also of the affected limb became enlarged and heavy. This is peculiarly a disease of warm climates. The dark races are more liable to it than the fair. In India, it is particularly liable to attack the scrotum, which it converts into a huge tumour. (See Scrotal Tumour.) In the West Indies the leg is its liavourite seat, hence the term Barhadoes leg. The best description of it is that given by Mr. Dalfcon, an able practitioner of Guiana ;* and from this it plainly appears, that it is from the first a constitutional malady. It begins insidiously with feverish or aguish symptoms, pain in the leg about to be attacked, firm doughy swelling resembling that of phlegmasia alba dolens, and some tender- ness of the lymphatic glands. In the course of months, or perhaps of years, the patient suffers a frequent repetition of these attacks; the litnb becomes permanently swelled, and in confirmed cases presents a huge, misshapen, useless mass, like the leg of an elephant ; hard, and * Lancet, 1846, vol. 11. p. 453. Mr. F. Day also describes the disease as con- secutive to malarious fever. This is important. Path. Trans, xiii. p. 304.