400 DISEASES OF THE LACHRYMAL .APPARATUS, sufficiently free puncture should be made from within the lid, the cyst broken up with a probe, and the sebaceous and epithelial contents be evacuated. XII. Pediculi.—These loathsome insects sometimes lodge about the roots of the eyelashes, and produce an obstinate itching. They are easily killed by any mercurial preparation ; but the surgeon ought to be aware of their existence, as they might be mistaken for crusts of dried mucus. SECTION IV.—DISEASES OP THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS, L—The Lachrymal Gland is occasionally subject to acute and chronic inflammation—the symptoms and treatment of which will be obvious. II. Xerophthalmia signifies a dryness of the eye from deficiency of the tears, or rather of the mucous secretion of the conjuncti\-a. It may be palliated by the occasional application of glycerine, or of a tepid lotion of infusion of quince-seed, by means of an eye-cup. Mr, Taylor has succeeded in two instances in restoring useful vision by keeping the cornea constantly moist with glycerine.* III. Epiphora signifies a redundancy or over-secretion of tears, so that they run over the cheeks. It should be distinguished from the stilliddium lachrymarum, or overflow of tears, in consequence of an obstruction in the channels that convey them to the nose. It may depend on general irritability of the eye, and is not unfrequent in scrofulous children. When arising from this cause it should be treated by aperients and altei-atives, with tonics and antacids (F. 38, 10, 11, 20, 76, 77). An emetic may be given if the stomach is foul. The same local applications may be used as are prescribed for scrofulous ophthalmia. Search should be made for foreign bodies or inverted eyelashes. IV. Closure of the Puncta Lachrymalia may be congenital, in which case it is quite incurable, or it may be a consequence of inflammation of the lachrymal sac and its appendages. Of couise it produces a stilliddium lachrymarum. When a consequence of inflam- mation, it is only temporary, and passes off as soon as the inflammation subsides, to which the treatment should be directed. Actual closure of both puncta, except from the cicatrization of a wound, scarcely ever takes place, and the loss of only one does not matter much if there be no accompanying inflammatory affection, and the eyelids ai'e not dis- placed. The treatment to be adopted when both are obliterated, and the canaliculi are not destroyed, is, according to Mr. Bowman,t to cut across one of them close to the obstruction, and then slit up the canal on a probe. When an orifice cannot be so formed, he recommends opening the sac below the tendo oculi, and slitting up the canal near the ob- • See his excellent paper on this disease in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., No. 198, new series, t Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiv.