452 CANCER OF THE EYE. may render a sightless eyeball a source of great irritation. For it must be remembered that one radically diseased eyeball is liable to induce disease in the remaining sound organ. When the eyeball alone is to be extirpated, for a non-cancerous growth. Bonnet's and O'Ferral's operation may be performed, which consists in dividing the conjunc- tiva, cutting through the insertion of the recti and obliqui muscles, drawing the eyeball ibrwards, and severing the optic nerve. Sometimes it is necessary to slit up the external commissure of the lids ; but in most cases the entii-e contents of the orbit require to be removed. During this operation, Mr. H. Walton places the patient on his side, to allow the blood to run away more easily. The first step is to slit up the external commissure of the lids, with the conjunctiva and ad- joinuig skin, to a sufficient extent. The eyelids then being held apart with retractors or spatulas, the operator takes hold of the eyeball with his fingers, or with hooked forceps, cuts through the conjunctiva above and below; cuts through the levator palpebral, dissects away the attachments of the superior and inferior oblique, and all vascular and cellular attachments to the walls of the orbit; then drawing the globe strongly inwards, cuts through the optic nerve, vessels, and muscles at the apex of the orbit, by means of a straight scalpel or pair of scissors passed along the outer wall of that cavity. Mr. Walton does not find that crooked instruments have any advantages for this last puipose over straight ones. The lachrymal gland should be taken away ; bleeding should be arrested by syringing with cold water; if troublesome, by a solution of alum on lint. The lids must then be closed, and a compress dipped in cold water be applied over the face. IV. Artificial Eyes consist of a thin scale of enamel coloured to imitate the natui-al eye. They are adapted for cases in which the globe is sightless and shrunken, after the removal of staphyloma, for instance. " Besides the removal of defoi'mity," says Mr. Walton, " the presence of the false eye may be of essential service in keeping the lids in their natui al position ; and preventing the cilia from irritating the shrunken globe; in placing the puncta in a more natural position for conveying away the tears; in acting as a defence against intruding bodies, which are apt to be retained within the lids and to produce irritation, and as a means of keeping the cavity free frona collections of lachrymal secre- tions." After staphyloma or any other disease which has rendered the eye- ball shrunken and sightless, if the patient objects to the trouble and ex- pense of an artificial eye, it may be convenient to divide the levator palpebree, in order that the lids may remain permanently closed. This maybe effected by making a transverse incision in the upper eyelid just below the orbit, and seizing the belly of the muscle as far back as pos- sible. Then a piece should be snipped out of it with scissors.* * See Tyrrell on Diseases of the Eye, 1840; Mackenzie on Diseases of the Eye, 4th edit., 1854; Dalrymple's Pathology of the Human Eye, 1852; Bowman on the Parts concerned in the Operations on the Eye, 1849 ; Dixon on J)iseascs of the Eye, 2nd edit,, 1859, and in "A System of Surgery," edited by Holmes,