240 DISEASES OF THE BONES, twelfth year of their age. After puberty, it is astonishing how firm the bones become, and, in particular, how they are strengthened by strong ridges developed on their concave sides. Treatment.—The health must be invigorated by sunlight, pui-e air, animal food, cod-liver oil, iron, and the other measures prescribed for scrofula. To these remedies, the author Yecomm&adsphosphate of lime to be added, F. 201. When a child with crooked legs is brought to the surgeon, he should ascertain whether the deformity arises from relaxation of the joints merely—the bones remaining straight—or from crookedness of the bones themselves. For the knees and ankles may be greatly bent inwards from the former cause, but will become straight of themselves when the health becomes stronger, especially if salt bathing and frictions are used to the legs and back. But if the tibia or femur are actually bent, the surgeon must take care not to tell the parents that the child will grow out of it; for there is no evi- dence that a bone which has once yielded can ever recover its primitive shape spontaneously. Therefore some mechanical contrivances should be used, in order both to strengthen the bent bones, and to keep them so till they are strong enough to bear the weight of the body; and a pair of simple wooden splints, well padded, and applied with some de- gree of tightness, from the top of the thigh to the foot, seem to answer every useful purpose, and the child soon learns to walk about in them with his knees straight. They should, of course, be taken off once daily for a good washing and rubbing.* III. MoLLiTiES OssiUM [Makicosteon, Osteomalacia) is a disease generally, but not invariably, affecting elderly females, in which the bones become softened and brittle, and lose their earthy constituents. In tlie very first stage, the affected bones are softened and extremely vascular. As the disease advances they become somewhat thickened, and so soft as to be easily cut with a knife. On a section being made, the osseous tissue is found nearly absorbed, a mere shell being left, which in most cases is filled with " a dark grumous matter, varying in colour from that of dark blood, to a reddish light liver colour." Under the microscope the Haversian canals are found to be dilated, the osseous cells diminished, and the colour to be owing to the numerous oil-globules with which the bone abounds, and to the presence of blood pigment. As the disease advances, the affected bones seem to be reduced to mere thin shells, filled in some cases with serum, in others with fat; whilst in some instances all bony matter whatever has disappeared, and the periosteum has been left as a cylinder tilled with a dark fatty substance of the consistence of liver. The disease is evidently constitutional, and usually affects almost every bone in the skeleton, although two instances have been reported to Mr. Solly, by Mr. Hodgson, of Birmingham, in which it was con- fined to the lower extremity; and in one of these, amputation was performed. Moreover, it is liable in women to affect the pelvis, either alone, or before any other part. At the commencement of it, the * See Bishop on Deformities, Lancet for 1846, vol. i.