TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURE. 257 united again. Leeclies and blisters to the part proved effectual reme- dies.* A recent callus is also sometimes absorbed during fever; and this occurrence used to be common enough in the sea-scurvy. SECTION X.—COMPOUND FRACTURE. Definition.—A fracture with a wound, which communicates with the fractured part. Causes.—Fracture may be rendered compound. 1. By the same injury which broke the bone. 2. By the bone being thrust through the skin. 3. By subsequent ulceration or sloughing of the integuments. Dangers.—These are threefold. 1. The shock and collapse of the injury, which may prove fatal in a few hours, especially if much blood has been lost. 2. Inflammation, erysipelas, pyaemia, fever, and tetanus. 3. Hectic or typhoid fever from excessive suppuration. Question op Amputation,—In order to decide upon the necessity of this operation, the extent of the injury and the restorative powers of the patient, and the resources of the sui'geon as to nurses, nourish- ment, &c., must be carefully considered. If the bone is very much shattered and comminuted; if the soft parts are extensively torn or bruised; if the large vessels or nerves ai-e injured, or if the knee- joint is extensively damaged and freely exposed by a fracture extending also far into the femur or tibia ; if, in particular, a large portion of the skin and soft parts have been torn away, or so injured that a large tract of it must slough ; if the patient is very old, or much enfeebled, either by previous disease, or present loss of blood; if the collapse of the injury is excessive and permanent—amputation is probably requisite. See Gunshot Wounds, p. 156. Compound Fractures of Joints should be treated as described under gunshot wounds. Laceration of Arteries is a dangerous complication both of simple and compound fracture. It is detected by the great flow of blood, if there be a wound; and if not, by a rapid, diffused, and dark-coloured tumefaction of the limb, with coldness and want of arterial pulsation in the parts below. If it be the femoral, amputation will most pro- bably be required, because the vein may have been injured also ; if any other (the anterior or posterior tibial, for instance), it may be secured ; provided that there is no other valid cause for amputation, and that the required incision will not too much aggi-avate the injury to the soft parts. But, cseteris paribus, this accident is always an additional reason for am- putation, if there be other circumstances rendering it probably expedient. Treatment.—If it be determined to save the limb, it must first be placed in a proper position, and then the fracture must be reduced, if a sharp end of bone protrude, and it cannot easily be returned or kept in its place, or if the periosteum be scraped off or injured, so that it will probably become necrosed, it should be sawn off. Any loose fragments or splinters of bone should be at once removed; and, if * James, Address in Pro v. Med. Trans. 1840. D S