WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 545 a probe-pointed bistoury. Then the surgeon should return the bowel portion hj portion, passing it back with his right forefinger and thumb, and keeping his left forefinger on that which is already replaced, to prevent it from protruding again. He should be careful to replace intestine before omentum, and any wounded part should be returned last. The abdominal parietes are best sewn together as after ovariotomj'- 4. If the stomach and intestines, when protruded, are found to be wounded, the wound should be sewn up by a continuous or glover's suture (keeping the serous surfaces applied together, and turned in- wards). (See p. 135.) Then it is hoped that the aperture in the bowel will be united by the adhesion of the contiguous serous surfaces ; and the silk employed in the suture will be detached by ulceration, and fall into its cavity. If, however, any part of the bowel that is protruded be very much lacerated, or be gangrenous, it should not be returned, but be left hanging out, that an artificial anus may be foi-med. The symptoms of inflammation of the peritoneum or abdominal viscera, which is of course exceedingly likely to follow these wounds and injuries, may readily be recognised. The patient lies on his back, with his knees drawn up; he breathes solely with the thorax, and not with the diaphragm or abdominal muscles; the countenance is anxious ; the pulse small, wiry, and resisting, but becomes fuller after bleeding; there is severe throbbing pain, with gi-eat tenderness, more or less widely diffused; a dry tongue, constant nausea, or vomiting, or obsti- nate constipation, complete the catalogue. If the case proceed to a fatal termination, the belly swells from serous effusion (if this be the case the v/ound should be opened) or from tympanites; and the pulse becomes more frequent and weak, the patient retaining his senses to the last. The treatment comprises opium or morphia, which may be given as enemas to allay pain and keep the wounded part at rest; fomentations ; leeches if necessary; ice to allay sickness; and cold beef-tea by spoonfuls. It is quite unnecessary to give purgatives in cases of inflammation of the bowels. It is true that the bowels will be obstinately costive ; but this costiveness arises from their being inflamed, and unable to pro- pel their contents onwards; and the proper remedies for it are such as will relieve the inflammation—that is, bleeding, leeches, fomentations, and calomel and opium. But if, in spite of common sense, the surgeon attempts to overcome the costiveness by colocynth pills and black draughts, he will soon induce obstinate vomiting, that will render all his other remedies nugatory. If in any case of inflammation of the bowels it is probable that they are loaded with faeces, the. proper re- medy is the repeated injection of warm water as an enema. To relieve the flatulent distension an enema of 1 drachm of the essentml oil of rue well mixed with half a pint of gruel or soap and water, will be found exceedingly efficacious.* * See Travers on Wounds of the Intestines, Lond. 1812; Henneh's Militarj- Surgery ; the observations on the treatment of Enteritis in Fergusson on Puer- D 2 N