264 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. thoroughly, so that the head of the humerus may be lifted up against the acromion, and keep it in its ]>]ace. Moreover, no pad must be placed in the axilla ; otherwise the broken part will be pushed outwards too much. Mr. Wood employs a broad figure-of-8 bandage, the upper loop of which passes under the opposite axilla, crossing over a pad placed on the broken part of the shoulder, while the lower loop passes down the back and under the elbow, flexed at a right angle across the chest. Three or four of the concluding turns of the bandage are to be taken round the body, arm, and hand horizontally. Union is almost always ligamentous, owing to the difficulty of keeping the parts in strict apposition. Fracture of the Coracoid Process is a rare accident, caused by sharp blows on the front of the shoulder. Symptoms.—The patient is unable to execute the motions performed by the biceps and coracobrachialis; that is, to bring the arm upwards and forwards ; and motion and crepitus of the detached process may be felt by pressing with the finger between the pectoralis major and del- toid, whilst the patient coughs or moves his shoulder. Treatment.—The humerus must be brought forwards and inwards, so as to relax the biceps and coracobrachialis, and must be confined to the trunk. V. Fractures of the Humerus.— Fracture of the shaft will be known at a glance by the limb being bent, shortened, and helpless, and by the crepitus felt when it is handled. The Upper Extremity of the Humerus may be fractured. 1, through the anatomical neck ; 2, through the line of junction of the epiphysis; 3, through the surgical neck; 4, the greater tuberosity may be broken otf; 5, the head may be dislocated from the glenoid cavity, and the cervix be fractured likewise. (1.) Fracture through the anatomical neck, that is to say, within the capsular ligament, is a rare accident, difficult of diagnosis ; there being scarcely any displacement: " The impairment of the motions of the joint and crepitus," says Dr. Smith, " are almost the only symptoms on which we can depend." There is one variety of this fracture in which the detached head of the bone is driven forcibly into and impacted in the reticular tissue of the head of the shaft, between the tubercles, one or other of which is usually broken off. " In this accident," says Dr. Smith, " the arm is slightly shortened, the acromion process projects more than natural, and the shoulder has lost, to a certain extent, its rounded form; the upper extremity of the shaft of the humerus is approximated to the acromion, and the entire of the globular head of the bone cannot be felt. In consequence * This cut shows the line of fracture of the anatomical neck; and the line of junction of the epiphysis.