WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 331 The success of the operation will be promoted bj using a small round ligature (of brown hempen thread), so as to divide the internal coats of the vessel smoothly, and by taking care to disturb it as little as possible from the surrounding parts which supply it with blood. If the place of ligature can be selected, it is better not to have it too near below the point where a large branch is given off, in order that the vessel may be sealed by a good coagulum before the ligature is separated; but this is of no great consequence.* When, however, the artery is diseased and brittle, the ligature should be large, and not tied too tightly; otherwise it may cut through entirely; or else a small portion of the adjoining tissue must be included in the knot. The manner of tying an artery is simple enough. If the orifice pro- jects a little, as it does from the surface of muscles divided in amputar tion, it should be taken hold of with a forceps, and be gently drawn out, and then an assistant should tie a ligatm-e round it as tightly and smoothly as possible in a double knot. If the bleeding orifice cannot be drawn out with the forceps, it may be transfixed with the tenaculum; but in some cases, where it is deeply seated or cannot be found, or is contained in a dense, consolidated tissue, it may be necessary to pass a curved needle and ligature through a considerable thickness of the flesh, and tie it up altogether. This was the practice usually adopted by surgeons of the last century; and is well called by John Bell, groping or diving with the needle. In all cases, however, where it is possible, the artery alone should be included in the ligature. After tying, one end of the ligature should be cut off, not too close to the knot, and the other be made to hang out of the wound. Assalini's spring forceps, and the little wire forceps, or serrefines, are useful when there is a lack of assistants. When an artery is completely divided, it is necessary to tie both orifices ; and if it is wounded, but not divided, a ligature must be placed by an aneurism-needle both immediately below and above the wounded part. It is necessary to observe, that in all cases, when it is possible, a wounded artery must be tied at the wounded part; and not in the trunk above. But here the question may be asked. Supposing that there is a wound of an artery situated at a great depth under muscles ; or that the wound is in an inflamed or sloughy state ; so that the adjacent parts are so infiltrated with blood that it must be extremely difficult to find the wounded vessel—would it not answer the purpose to tie * J. F. D, Jones, M.D., Treatise on Hgemorrhage and the Ligature, Lend. 1805 ; Porter on Aneurism,