137 WOUNDS. should also be bathed, so as to remove any dry coagulated blood, before they are reapplied to each other. One case is related in which the last phalanx of the middle finger was cut off, and after an hour and a half was replaced, and united firmly,* Cure of open Wounds.—If a pai-t has been abstracted which cannot be restored, or if any kind of wound cannot be covered by skin, as is the case with lacerated and irregular wounds, the first plan on which it may be treated, is by endeavouring to form a scab, by covering the wound with pledgets of soft lint soaked in blood, which are to be allowed to dry and adhere. This is the natural and simple way in which most slight accidents heal when not interfered with by art; and Mr. Wardrop has seen the large surface exposed by the removal of a diseased breast heal completely under a crust of blood in thirty days. The old-fashioned remedy, the Friar's Balsam, or Tinct. Benzoes comp., is an excellent application for wounds attended with some degree of contusion. It causes the blood to coagulate, and seals up the wound from the contact of the air, and from infectious miasmata. If there is no pain or bad smell, the wound should be allowed to remain unopened till the scabs drop off", and show a cicatrix underneath. But if ,it becomes painful, and a fetid matter oozes out, warm poultices or water-dressing should be applied, and the wound be treated like a common granulating sore. Or, instead of attempting to form a scab, the surgeon may apply water-dressing or poultices from the first, when, if the case proceeds favourably, the wound will become filled with a pink lymph, which in very shallow wounds forms a pliant cicatrix, without granulation, and without suppuration. Abscess after Wounds.—After punctured w^ounds, or after any ex- tensive surgical operation, or other wound, it is possible that part of the exudation, or that some portion of coagulum may decompose and cause suppuration, even after the wound in the skin has healed ; and that the sanious fluid which results may find its way into the veins and cause serious consequences. Pain and tenderness, restlessness and shivering, will cause the surgeon to examine the track of the wound carefully, and to make an incision if there is any mischief underneath. Punctured Wounds.—The first point usually mooted in discussing the treatment of these wounds is the propriety of dilating them, and converting them into simple incisions, in order to avert deep-seated suppuration and confinement of matter. But as those evils by no means follow of necessity, an endeavour should be made first to prevent them. To this end, the part should be kept at perfect rest, and should be bandaged with an agreeable degree of firmness, so as to prevent subcutaneous oozing of blood, which is the most likely cause of inflam- mation. If necessary, low diet, purgatives, and cold lotions must be employed. But if, notwithstanding, there should be severe pain, and swelling, and fever, the case must be treated in the same manner as a deep-seated abscess. * Baily, H, W., of Thetford, Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ., July 1815.