DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. 628 whose kindness the writer is indebted for the engraving of it in the pre- ceding page. The entire calculus is nearly 4| inches in length, and, at its broadest extremity, 4| inches in circumference, and weighs 1681 grains. It is composed of twenty-nine separate portions, slightly adhering by conchoidal surfaces, no doubt originally deposited in separate cells of the prostate, and the whole agglomerated into one mass by the absorp- tion of the intervening tissue.* The symptoms of these concretions are, at first, irritation of the neck of the bladder, and difficulty of micturition, as in other cases of en- larged prostate; the calculi may also be probably felt with the sound, or by the finger in the rectum. In some cases it may suffice to keep the urethra well dilated, so as to favour spontaneous escape; or it may be possible to remove one or more with the urethral forceps; but, should they cause great irritation, abscess, or retention of urine, it will be necessary to cut down on them from the perinajum, and remove them, as was successfully done by Dr. Barker. VII. Cancer of the prostate is very I'are. In one or two cases of haid cancer which occurred in Sir B. Brodie's practice, the gland was enlarged, of a stony hardness; there was great pain in the groins and periiiseum, irritability of the bladder, and cancerous cachexia. Soft cancer is equally i-are. The symptoms are nearly the same as those of cancer of the bladder.f SECTION VI.—DISEASES OP THE BLADDER, I, Irritable Bladder.—Many cases described under this title are cases of gout or of inflammation. Simple irritability, that is, a fre- quent inclination to pass the urine with or without spasm ; but with- out inflammation or organic disease, may be caused, 1. By an irritat- ing state of the urine ; the qualities of which, and the presence or otherwise of oxalate of lime, triple phosphate, and albumen, should be ascertained ; 2. It may be the effect of mere nervousness, which is not uncommon in elderly people, or of mental agitation; 3. It maybe caused by irritation of the rectum, womb, or other adjacent organs; notably in children by irritation of ascarides; 4, By general debility; 5. By exposure to cold. The surgeon should examine into causes. Soothing medicines, such as belladonna, F. 149, may be of use. II. Nocturnal Incontinence.'—Involuntary flow of urine during the night is common enough in delicate children ; but the surgeon may be consulted on account of its continuing to an age at which such an infirmity becomes very troublesome and degrading. Any such case should be carefully studied under these heads. 1st. It should be as- certained whether the urine is irritating in quality or excessive in quan- tity; which it very frequently is. Thus, it will often be found, that the malady is aggravated when the bowels are confined, or the diet un- wholesome, or saccharine drinks used too freely, or when there has * Trans, of Provincial Medical Association, N.S., vol. iii. f For cases, see Coulson, op. cit.; Stafford M. C. T., xvii.