100 FATTY TUMOURS. lignant and non-maligiiant growths. All tumours are constitutional. All are liable to return after extirpation. Some varieties of fibrous and fibro-plastic and cartilaginous tumours may not only return, if removed, but may invade many internal organs. There is no tumour which in some individuals, or under some circumstances, may not dis- play at least ten out of the fifteen signs of malignancy. But for all this, it is absurd to erect the malignant into a separate class, from the innocent tumours of the same structure. It is like putting all the fatal cases of a disease into one class and the unfatal into another. The modern plan of putting recurrent tumours into a separate class is equally absurd. Any tumour, if extirpated, is liable to be followed by one of a worse sort. SECTION II.—THE FATTY TUMOUR. The Fatty Tumour {Lipoma^ is composed of genuine fat-tissue ; that is, of oil-cells, rounded or polygonal, packed in the meshes of a natural areolar tissue. Such tumours are contained in a fibrous cap- sule, in which their blood-vessels ramify, and which sends partitions throughout their substance, dividing them, more or less completely, into lobules. In o'ttwanl characters they are soft, painless, and lobulated ; feeling ju-st like fat. Their mo.^t usual sitmition is the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the trunk, especially about the back of the neck and shoulders, but they may extend between and under lasciaj, deep amongst the muscles of the neck, trunk, or limbs. They may even he found in parts where no fat exists natuiall\% as the scrotum or eyelid. In nuniher this tumour is generally single; its growth is slow; it may attain enormous bulk, even 70 lbs.; but causes no inconvenience, save what arises from its weight and situation; and is liable to no process of degeneration, except that it may possibly become inflamed and adherent, or hardened by the development of fibrous tissue, or even may ulcerate or slough out. We meet with the name recurrent fatty tumour in the Pathological Transactions,* and read of a fatty tumour whose fibrous stroma had all the encroaching characters of" malignancy." It n)ay by its softness be mistaken for chronic abscess or encysted tumour ; but the tactvs eruditus, or puncture with a grooved needle, will distinguish the difference. Treatment.—The liquor potassse has considerable influence in caus- ing the absorption of fat, when there is a universal tendency to obesity, or even when there is a partial overgrowth of fat in some part of the body ; where it is an exaggeration of the whole fatty tissue of some region and not a true circumscribed tumour. Sir B. Brodie has* seen * Dr. G. Harley, p. 224. Report on fatty tumour of sole of foot of an infant.