ERYSIPELAS. 60 tied, and kept empty. Two or more tubes may be introduced if need be. But if air have once gained admission into the cavity of the abscess, and the pus have become putrid, and prosti-ation of strength and diy brown tongue show its inHuence on the system, then the indications plainly are, to make free openings and counter-openings, so as to pre- vent all lodgment of the putrid pus; and to wash out the sac occa- sionally with injections of warm water, containing a very little of the solution of iodine. At the same time the strength must be supported, and the evil influence on the blood neutralised by wine, soup, bark, and the nitro-muriatic or sulphuric acid, F. 1, 22, 25. CHAPTER XI. ERYSIPELAS, DIFFUSE INFLAMMATION OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE, AND PYiF.MIA. SECTION I.—PATHOLOGY OF ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. Erysipelas is an unhealthy inflammation, which, wherever situ- ated, exhibits the following characters :—It has a disposition to spread widely along the surface of skin or membranes, or in the areolar tissue. The lymph which is formed has no disposition to form a sac, within which the pus shall be confined; on the contrary, it is liable to universal softening, and the exudations are diffused widely, and thus extend the disease into sound parts. Erysipelatous inflammation is liable to attack different parts, sometimes simultaneously, sometimes by metastasis; that is, leaving one part and flying to another, thus giving evidence of its origin in a vitiated state of the blood. The different varieties of erysipelatous disease prevail epidemically together. Thus -Dr. Ferguson tells us, that erysipelas and puerperal fever were generally coexistent in his lying-in hospital, the mothers perishing of one and the infants of the other. These diseases are capable of direct propagation by infection, i. e., through the medium of gaseous emanations, and by contagion. Instances are now common enough, showing that the con- tagion of erysipelas may cause puerperal fever, just as inoculation with the fluids of a female who has died of puerperal fever is a most fatal source of diffuse cellular inflammation to the dissector.* Since hospitals are frequently rather a curse than a blessing through the mortality arising from erysipelatous diseases contracted within their walls, or carried into the lying-in chamber, no pains should be * See Robert Ferguson on Puerperal Fever, p. 29 ; Storrs, of Doncaster, who first clearly proved the common origin of these and other septic diseases, in the Prov. Med. Jour., 23rd April, 1842 ; Nunnely on Erysipelas, Lond. 1841; Dr. G. Gregory on Ochlesis, Lancet for July 15, 1848; Routh on the Puerperal Fever of Vienna, Med. (Jhir. Trans, vol. xxxii.