600 DISEASES OF THE EECTUM AND ANUS. Operation used to be performed (as it commonly was sixty years ago): for fistula, it was often followed by inability to retain the fseces. XIII. Internal Prolapsus, or Invagination of the Rectum. —When the rectum in women has become distended, and has lost its tone from protracted constipation and the abuse of warm ene- mata, the upper part of the bowel is apt to come down within the lower, and to be gripped by it after the manner of an invagination. This state of things causes great distress, constant feeling of weight and of desire to pass motions, and difficulty in so doing. On examination with the finger, the canal of the rectum is found obstructed by a tumour with a capacious cul de sac around it, and with the natural passage of the bowel in its centre. The writer has reason for believing that some degree of this affection is not very uncommon amongst women. Treatment.—Aperients, such as rhubarb, with cubebs or cinnamon; or with small doses of nux vomica : mild astringent injections, and the bougie ; the point of Avhich should be carefully guided into the orifice in the centre of the prolapsed portion.* XIV. Spasmodic Stricture of the rectum—known by great diffi- culty in evacuating the bowels, with spasmodic pain on doing so—is a rare affection. " It generally depends," says Mr. Mayo, " on a vitiated state of the secretions ; and is move frequently relieved by a regulated diet and alterative medi- cines, and the use of injec- tions, than by the employ- ment of the bougie." (See Proctalgia.) XV. Permanent Stric- ture. — In this affectiotf there is a chronic thickening and contraction of the mu- cous coat of the rectum, so as to form a ring encroaching on its canal. It is generally situated at from two inches and a half to four inches from the anus. More rarely it is met with higher up, or even in various parts of the colon. It may follow the contraction of cicatrised ul- cers. The symptoms are great pain, straining, and dif- ficulty in voiding the fseces, which are passed in small, * This malady is particularly described by Earle, Med. Gaz., vol. v.; Che- vallier, Med. (.;hir. Trans., vol. x.; Mayo on the Rectum, p. 182; and Bushe on the Rectum, New York, 1837.