490 AFFECTIONS OP THE TONGUE. like, or almost solid, and the cysts themselves thickened and closely- adherent to the surrounding parts, so as not to be detached without great bleeding. In any such case, if the tumour is too large to be ex- tirpated, or its contents too solid to be removed by an incision within the mouth, an incision must be made in the middle line beneath the jaw, between the muscles which pass from the jaw to the hyoid bone; or wherever else it is most superficial. The contents must be removed ; as much of the cyst as can be detached, be cut off; and the remainder left to suppurate. Mr. Mayo fills the remainder of the cyst with lint dipped in turpentine, both to check bleeding and to cause the cyst to be quickly thrown off.* II. Tongue-tie signifies a prolongation of the fraenum linguse, con- fining the apex of the organ to the lower jaw. It is usually detected by the difficulty which the infant has in sucking; and may easily be relieved by dividing the frasnum with a blunt-pointed pair of scissors, taking c^re to direct their points downwards, and to keep as close to the lower jaw as possible, so as to avoid the lingual artery. III. Wounds of the tongue are liable to be attended with severe haemorrhage from the lingual artery or from veins. If the bleeding orifice cannot be tied or controlled by acupressure, one or more ligatures must be introduced with curved needles, so as to include and constrict the bleeding parts, or a heated iron may be applied. Children are apt to inflict very severe bites, even sometimes almost biting off the end of the tongue. The author has treated several such by leaving them entirely to nature. He has known surgeons put themselves to very great trouble to introduce sutures, but the patient fared none the better. IV. Inflammation of the tongue, known by great swelling, ten- derness, and difficulty of speaking, and of deglutition; generally ac- companies severe salivation; but it may occur in an acute form inde- pendently of this cause. It must be treated by purgatives and gargles; by leeches, incisions, and the antiphlogistic regimen generally, if neces- sary. If abscess form, the fluctuating part should be opened- Ab- scesses which form under the tongue may cause suffocation by their pressure on the glottis: an incision beneath the chin, through the mylo-hyoid muscle is the only resource.f V. Hypertrophy.—Enlargement, without tenderness or structural disease, sometimes affects the tongue, causing it to protrude permanently from the mouth. It is usually the result of an attack of acute inflam- mation, which has caused the tongue to protrude. On this point the * Mr. Mayo's case, Lancet, 1847, i. 667; also Fergusson's Pract. Surg., 3rd edit., p. 599. -j- Sometimes the tongue enlarges suddenly to an immense size, so as almost to cause suffocation, but without any symptoms of inflammation, properly so called. A case which proved fatal, in spite of bleeding, leeching, calomel, and incisions, is related by Mr. Lyford, of Winchester, in the Lancet for 1828, p. 16; a similar case, cured by purgatives and incision, by Mr. Taynton, Med. Gaz., vol. xii., who speaks of it as the only case he had seen in a practice of forty years; and one by Mr. Collins (ib., p. 642), in a pregnant woman, cured by an incision in the raphe on the under surface.