DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 688 (at the date of the 6th edition, 1853) three ladies under his care with this tumour. In one, the mother of eleven children, it came after the health had been broken down.by puerperal fever, which completely hin- dered suckling. This patient (1855) had got well spontaneously. In the second, a very feeble and anaemic person, it came shortly after weaning one cliild, and disappeared during the next pregnancy. In the third, it was first noticed at nineteen: she was married at twenty-one; at twenty-three the tumour was slowly on the increase, and was excised by Mr. Henry Lee ; it furnished a capital specimen of the disease. In a year after the operation, the tumour returned ; continued stationary for two years; and in the year 1859, had disappeared, concurrently with great improvement in the health. Treatment.—In the early stages, tonics, and measures adapted to re- gulate the bowels and the menstrual functions—such as the iodide of potassium with bark, the iodide of iron, saline and chalybeate mineral waters, &c.—should be administered at discretion. If it should be hot, swelled, and painful, a few leeches may be of use. Lebert speaks highly of the tepid douche, and of ointment of iodide of lead in the in- tervals. The breast should be enveloped in cotton wool. Severe pain or distension may be relieved by opiate or belladonna liniment. Lastly, should the growth increase rapidly, with cyst formation or suppura- tion, the part of the breast containing it should be extirpated. XII. Gland Cysts (p. 109), not like the last, developed between the lobules, but consisting of an expansion of obstructed gland ducts, may be situated on the surface, in the centre of, or behind the organ ; and may be of various sizes, though rarely larger than a filbert. They are lined with epithelium, and enclose a yellow, reddish, or green mucous fluid, containing milky and fatty globules and epithelium, which last accumulates after a time, and l enders the contents of the cyst more solid. Serous fluid sometimes exudes from the nipple.* In a patient of the author's, aged 46, a cystic tumour, size of a wal- nut, has existed twenty yeai's close to the nipple, which it causes to retract; is swelled and painful during the catamenia; a little bloody serum can be squeezed out, or runs out of itself. The cyst is evidently composed of a dilated duct, and has a bit of hypertrophied gland tissue close to it. These cysts may be combined with glandular tumour: but if not, and if they increase, puncture so as to empty them, and moderate pressure may be tried, when perhaps they may shrink with or without suppuration. But if great irritation and discharge are created, a part or the whole of the organ should be removed. XII. Cakcer of the breast is, according to Lebert, of the hard or scirrhous variety, in three-fifths of the number of cases ; of the soft or medullary in one-fifth; and of intermediate forms, including a few rare and exceptional cases of melanotic and colloid cancer, in the other fifth. Paget believes that of every hundred primary hard cancers, ninety-five * See Birkett on Diseases of the Breast, Loud., 1850.