AMAUROSIS. 444 bath. F. 9, 13, 21, 190. It is in this form, if in any, that local stimulants are applicable—such as exposing the eye to the vapour of sether or sal volatile (a teaspoonful of either beino- held in the hand) ; stimulating snuiF (F. 184), cataplasms of capsicum to the temples; friction of the forehead with cajeput or croton-oil, or with an alcoholic solution of veratria. 3. Sympathetic.—(a.) Amaurosis not unfrequently supervenes on an attack of jaundice. If there be evidence of congestion in the head, as there frequently will be, blood should be taken by cupping, whilst the abdominal disorder should be removed by appropriate measures. (b.) If there be headache, vertigo, foul tongue, and other evidence of abdominal disorder, an emetic, blue pill or hyd. c. creta, in small doses every night; and pui-gatives, till the secretions are set to rights, followed by tonics and counter-irritants, are the requisite measures. In similar cases, some foreign authors recommend the use of Schmucker's or Richter's resolvent pills, F. 185. Turpentine, or the kousso, or the oil of male fern should be given if there be signs of tape-worm. (c.) Amaurosis sometimes arises from irritation of the fifth pair of nerves. If it follows a wound on the forehead, the latter should be dilated, or if it have healed, the cicatrix should be cut out. Tumours of all sorts near the eye, and carious teeth should be removed. 4. Frorn Poisons.—Amaurosis is liable to be induced by certain * This cut exhibits atrophy of the left optic nerve and right tractus opticus consequent on amaurosis. From the Middlesex Hospital Museum. poisons, such as lead and bel- ladonna. If the amaurosis persist after the ordinary effects of the poison have been got rid of by the usual measures, the cold shower-bath, counter irritation, electricity, and iodide of potassium, are the remedies most likely to be of service. 5. Organic. — These cases are the most hopeless. If the disease has followed an injury of the head, or fit of apoplexy, or syphilis, or if there be rea- son to suspect a tumour in the brain, or in the course of the optic nerve, — a moderate course of mercury, or of iodide of potassium with alkalis and sarsaparilla, and with counter- irritants, should be tried, and sometimes may effect a cure. Amaurosis arising from a tumour within the brain will