23 GENERAL DOCTRINE OF REPAIR. local hypersemia, or local deprivation of blood, occasioned by agents operating on the vaso-motor system of nerves. d. Disease occasioned by blood disorder, (a) Blood disorder arising from common causes, cold, unwholesome food, &c., or disorder producing some peculiar morbid poison, as the gouty or rheumatic; which poisons are attracted to, and deposited in, particular tissues or organs, and there vex the living tissues and excite them to abnormal action. (jS) Blood disorder arising from the presence of diseased germinal matter which has been absorbed from one part of the body, and may be exuded into another. Thus an unhealthy inflammation or a cancer may furnish germs which contaminate the blood, and constitute the material cause of secondary inflammation, deposits, or exudations. (7) Si- milarly, diseased germinal matter, introduced from without, whether through the air passages or through a wound, may develop itself in the blood, and may constitute material for exudation; as in small-pox, and other zymotic diseases. CHAPTER V. GENERAL DOCTRINE OF REPAIR. Repair not inflammation.—Since the animal body is liable to accidents, and the purposes of life could not be realised if every injury produced death or permanent disability, it is evident that a provision for repair, within certain limits, is as essential as that for daily nutri- tion. Within our own times, indeed, it has been customary to assume that all repair was an effect of inflammation. But a more precise pa- thology requires us to separate repair, a process beneficial, gentle, and painless, from inflammation, a process injurious, violent, and pain- ful. True it is, that both repair and inflammation have the one feature, exudation, or rather cell-growth and consequent infiltration, in common ; and that some cases of j epair are more or less complicated by inflammation ; and that in some others, as, for example, the case of hydrocele, or of a sinus, or of a non-united fracture, that an active inflammatory disturbance is set up, and that repair is effected by the cell-growth or exudations so induced. Yet it may be said of all repair that it is perfectly and rapidly executed in proportion as every symp- tom which can fairly be called inflammatory is absent.* What amount of repair is possible ?—This is a question, like many others, of which a broad view cannot be obtained by attention to human anatomy and pathology alone. In some of the lowest animals, as * On the subject of this chapter, the student should thoroughly master the chapters on Repair and Adhesion, iu Hunter on the Blood; Travers on Inflammation, a work iu which the venerable author treats of inflammation almost as the one disease, and as the agent of all repair; Macartney on Inflam- mation, which has laid the foundation for the modern reform of opinion; and the masterly summary of the whole subject in Paget's Lectures, 2nd edit, by Turner.