INGUINAL HERNIA. 576 skin puncture before made, the other end of the wire hooked on to it and drawn back into the scrotal puncture as before, and then detached. Next, the sac at the scrotal incision A. and B.) The whole is held steady by a spica bandage. The wire is kept in from ten days to a fortnight, or even longer if the amount of consolidation and adhesive action is not satisfactory. Very little suppuration usually follows, but after a few days the parts traversed by the wire can be felt thickened and hardened by adhesive deposit which blends together the sac, the pillars of the superficial ring, and the tendinous boundaries of the hernial canal into a resisting mass, the wire becoming more and more loosened by ulceration in its track, until it can be untwisted and withdrawn upwards. In this operation the hernial canal is closed along its whole length, and an extended adherent surface is obtained to resist future protrusion. A horseshoe pad is worn for a few months. It may then be laid aside, unless in exceptional cases, or when the patient is about to be subjected to violent sti-ains or lifting. For large cases of direct hernia, Mr. Wood crosses the wires in the canal, and obtains an additional hold upon the pillars of the ring below. The ring pad truss before described is also employed in these cases after the operation. For small cases, and the hernia of children, he employs a pair of rectangular pins, one of which is made to traverse from above down- wards the conjoined tendon and inner pillar and the other Pou- part's ligament from below upwai-ds. Both these pins are made to Fig. 12. is pinched up between the finger and thumb, the cord slipped back from it as in taking up varicose veins of the cord. The needle is then passed across behind the sac, entering and emerging at the opposite ends of the scrotal incision. (See Fig. 15.) The end of the inner wire is again hooked on and drawn back across the sac. Both ends of the wire are then drawn down until the loop is near the surface of the groin above ; they are then twisted together down into the incision, and cut off to a con- venient length. Traction is then made upon the loop. This invagi- nates the sac and scrotal fascia well up into the hernial canal. The loop of wire is then twisted down close into the upper puncture, and bent down to be joined to the two ends in a bow or arch, under which is placed a stout pad of lint. (See Fig. 16,