231 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, ETC. be relied on is dkision of the affected muscle or of its tendon; by which means the divided parts will retract; they will unite by lymph, and will consequently be lengthened, and then extension may be prac- tised with gieater etHcacy. (See Clubfoot and Wry Neck.) V. Acute Atrophy.—In this affection one or more muscles rapidly waste away, and their wasting is attended with severe pain, especially in the course of their nerves. It appears to depend on rheumatism of the muscular nerves, and to be caused by cold.* VI. Rupture of Musci-es and Tendons.—This is an accident which is frequently caused by violent muscular contraction; especially if, after illness or long inactivity, the muscles are subjected to sudden and severe exertion. The muscles which are most frequently ruptured are, the gastrocnemius, the rectus femoris, which sometimes is entirely detached fi om the patella,f and the biceps flexor cubiti; but more fre- quently the tendons give way, especially the tendo Achillis, and flexoi- tendons of the wrist. The symptoms of this accident are, sudden pain, and sometimes an audible snap. The patient cannot extend the tendon as he can in the opposite limb. A depression may be felt with the fingers at the rup- tured part. The reparation of ruptured tendons, and of tendons divided by sub- cutaneous section, is accomplished by the exudation of lymph between the severed extremities and into their sheath. This quickly sets into a homogeneous substance, minutely gianular and studded with elongated nuclei, which speedily assumes the fibrous characters and consistence of tendon.J This process proceeds best when unaccompanied with extra- vasation of blood, or with inflammatory exudation. Treatment.—The main ponit is to keep the injured part in a state of constant rest and relaxation,§ so that the seveied ends may be in close approximation, and to prevent any violent extension till union is firm. When the tendo Achillis, or the gastrocnemius muscle is ruptured, the knee may be kept bent by a string passing from the heel of the slipper to a bandage round the thigh. For ruptures of the extensors of the thigh, the limb must be placed in the same position as in fracture of the patella. If tlie biceps is ruptured, the elbow must be kept bent to its utmost; if the tendons about the wrist or fingers, the forearm must be confined by a splint. After three or four weeks of rest, the surgeon may use passive motion ; that is, may bend and extend the joints of the injured limb with his hands several times successively. But the patient must be cautious in using the muscle for a long time ; and (if it be the tendo Achillis) must walk with a high-heeled shoe for two or three * Two cases of it are given in Mayo's Pathology, p. 117. The author has seen several, which all attempts have failed to cure, f Vincent, op. oil. p. 71. % See Mr. William Adams's account of the Reparation of Tendons, Trans, of the Pathological Soc. vol. vi. $ Muscles are to be relaxed by putting them into a position the reverse of that which they occupy when in greatest action—not by merely approximating their attachments.—Vincent, p, 11.