119 CANCER. Hence arise extravasations of blood into its substance, giving it tlie appearance of blood-clot mixed with brain. If ulcerated, there are frequent hsemorrhages from the surfaces. This, however, is common to every form of rapid ulcer, cancerous or not. 6. Cystic Cancer.—Cysts may be produced in cancerous growths by the extravasation of blood, and the absorption of the eoagulum, leaving in its place a clear or coffee-coloured serum. Creancer may be super- added to a previously-existing cystic growth, and may grow from the walls of the cyst as a portion of hypertrophied gland may. Or, lastly (as in the case of cancer of the ovary), it may, from the first, assume the cystic form which characterises the morbid growths of that organ. 7. Osteoid Cancer {^Malignant osseous tumour) is characterised, not merely by the partial ossification of the fibrous or periosteal tissue, in- tersecting a cancer when developed in or upon bone which is common), but by the conversion of the newly-developed cancer stroma, first into fibrous tissue of extreme density, then into a peculiar bone. This bone when macerated and dried is exceedingly dense and compact, like ivory ; yet dull in colour, rough and porous on its surface, extremely brittle and capable of being reduced to a chalky powder; and may be seen, under the microscope, to be imperfectly constituted as to its bone structures, and to contain an admixture of amorphous earthy matter. In the recent state its surface is covered and its interstices filled with the dense fibrous matter, and with a few cancer cells. 8. Villous Cancer.—This name has been assigned to a growth com- posed of the most delicate papillas, containing each a vascular loop, growing from the surface of mucous membrane, and associated with cancer, or more probably with epithelioma. The bladder and gums are the usual seat of this growth. Causes.—Under this head we have chiefly to confess our ignorance. Neither temperament, mode of life, civilisation, previous disease, nor moral causes have been proved to have any special predisposing influ- ence. Domestic animals and cattle are quite as subject to the disease as man is. The dark and bilious are not more subject to cancer than the light and florid. The rich are rather more liable than the poor ; but it is because they are not so often cut off beforehand by other diseases. The healthy and well-fed, the happy and prosperous, are as liable as their less fortunate brethren. The disease is alleged, however, to be more rare in tropical than in temperate climates; and, although there is no such incompatibility as is sometimes supposed between cancer and phthisis (because cancerous patients often display the signs of pre-existing tubercular disease, and many become affected with phthisis), yet it happens most rarely that any person actually phthisical is attacked by cancer.* External violence cannot be a cause of cancer, although it may perhaps occasion or hasten its development in the injured spot. In fact, the only known predisposing causes are,— 1. Descent from a cancerous parent, which seems to have some slight influence, and was found by Lebert to exist in about i of a certain * See case by ]VIr. Sibley, of concurrent development of cancer and pulmonary tubercle; and two other cases iu J. Z. Lawrence on Surgical Cancer, 1855, p. 30.