210 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. Early symptoms.—The most common event is, that the patient, about six weeks after the primary symptoms, complains of malaise, looks dejected, pale and thin, and complains of headache and rheumatism. Then he presents a crop of coloured blotches on the skin of the arms and chest, raised mucous patches on the lips, palate, or throat,scabs from little pimples on the scalp, enlaigement of the glands around the occiput, and falling of the hair. The patient may not be aware that he has had chancre ; but the hardened cicatrix will probably be found on the genital organs or elsewhere with indolent enlarged glands close by. The colour, a reddish-yellow, coppery tint, of most syphilitic skin symptoms, is remarkable. Relapses.—After the first outbreak has disappeared, there is liable to be a relapse and a fresh set of symptoms; perhaps iritis, nodes on the bones, scaly patches on the hands and feet, headaches, and nocturnal pains in the bones. Later symptoms.—If the disease go on, it begets a tendency to waxy degeneration in various organs—that is, to the infiltration of an almost structureless, thickening matter, in spleen, liver, kidneys, &c., and the primary deposits in skin or areolar tissue or bone behave like cancer, and soften down into foul ulcers. The writer, soon after entering practice, attended the wife of a tradesman, aged about eighteen, just married, and of perfectly good character, for primary syphilis. The husband denied all knowledge of the cause. She was treated for a very short time; brought forth a dead child, and a year after, another, who exhibited signs of syphilis, and was ti'eated with mercury. This boy's teeth are depicted at p. 221. He is now about twenty-four : has repeatedly been in hospitals for iritis, and acute rheumatism with valvular deposit. During one rheumatic attack, in which the writer saw him, his skin exhibited a mottled rash, just like syphilitic roseola. The father went on without treatment, and in apparently perfect health, for at least fourteen years, then suffered from enlarged liver and dropsy. But about twenty-one years after the original attack he again came in a dying state under the author's care. He then had foul, shallow, suppurating patches on the thighs and upper arms (ecthyma) ; fistula lachrymalis on the left side, with enlargement and suppuration of adjoining bone; alae nasi thickened, and eaten away at the edges; bridge of nose sunk, with fetid discharge ; voice, a husky whisper, from ulceration of larynx, with copious muco-purulent expec- toration ; vomiting after almost any kind of food; he lived on porter, which he craved for and took in large quantities; liver greatly en- larged ; some ascites ; one testicle enlarged and hard as a small cocoa- nut ; diarrhoea and tenesmus; and the most foul look and smell con- ceivable. Death soon followed. He confessed that shortly before marriage he contracted a very slight ulcer, which gave him no inconvenience. He took a few pills and thought no more of it. This is a typical case of old-fashioned pox, and is introduced here as a testimony against the insane theory that secondary symptoms are due to mercury. We must now enumerate the chief lesions of constitutional syphilis.