309 DISLOCATION OR LUXATION, GENERALLY. excision may be requisite; if the popliteal artery is wounded, amputa- tion. The wound should be carefully closed and covered with a piece of lint dipped in blood. The limb should be comfortably bandaged, and constitutional measures be adopted to avert or subdue inflammation. See Sect. J. SECTION IX.—DISLOCATION OR LUXATION, GENERALLY. Symptoms.—The characteristic symptoms of dislocation are two:— 1. Befof^mity : there being an alteration in the form of the joint; an unnatural prominence at one part and a depression at another, together with lengthening or shortening of the limb. 2. Loss or deviation from the proper motions of the joint. Causes.—Dislocation may be caused by external violence, or by muscular action. And the circumstances that enable muscular action to produce it are,—a peculiar position (as when the jaw is very much depressed) ; paralysis of an antagonist set of muscles ; elongation of ligaments ; or fi acture or ulceration of some process of bone. Thus, ulceration of the acetabulum permits the head of the femur to be dis- located upwards, and fracture of the coronoid process permits the ulna to be dislocated backwards. Morbid Anatomy.—Dislocation is almost of necessity attended with some rupture of ligaments, which, however, readily unite and heal.- If the dislocation be left unreduced, the lymph thrown out around the head of the bone in its new situation becomes converted into new ligaments, and into a new socket, which is lined with a smooth ivory substance, and not with cartilage; and a very useful degree of motion is often acquired. Meanwhile the old socket gradually becomes filled up. Diagnosis.—Dislocation may be distinguished from fracture, 1. By the absence of crepitus. For although a slight crackling is often per- ceptible, owing to an effusion of serum into the cellular tissue, it can hardly be mistaken for the grating of fracture. 2. By the circum- stance that the surgeon can move a fractured bone moi-e freely than is natural, and a dislocated one less so. 3. By measurement of the bone supposed to be broken, which, if broken, will be most probably short- ened. 4. If a fractured bone be drawn into its proper shape, the dis- tortion will return so soon as the extension is discontinued ; if a dis- located bone be drawn into its proper place, it will usually remain there. Treatment.—The reduction of dislocations is to be effected by getting the head of the displaced bone into such a position that the muscles may draw it into its socket. Sometimes this may be done by manceiwring, as in certain ways of reducing dislocated shoulders and hips, that will be presently described; sometimes main force must be used; the socket being fixed on one side, and the bone pulled on the other till the resistance of the muscles is overcome. The extension should be made in such a position as to relax as many of the opposing