248 TUMOURS IN BONE. have been diiected for scrofula, or for tertiary syphilis, supposing the caries to be connected with either of those maladies. If it can be done, the best local remedy consists in freely exposing and removing the whole of the diseased portion of bone by the saw, or gouge, or trephine. If this cannot be done, lotions of the dilute nitric or phosphoric acid may be tried, injected into the sinuses with a glass syringe. Pressure by means of adhesive plaster spread on wash leather applied upon the intervals between the sinuses is often beneficial, as also is iodine paint to those parts of the surface which are unbroken and uninflamed. The latter treatment is very applicable to slow chronic debilitated cases. But we must add that the English surgeon would do well to adopt M. Chassaignac's drainage tube in many cases. Any number of these may be passed through a carious bone, or in the close vicinity ; as when an unhealthy abscess forms under the periosteum. By its means, the pus and particles of perishing bone are removed incessantly as they are formed, and the tissues being thus relieved of dead elements are put into a condition favourable for repair. The writer, during a visit to the Lariboissi^re Hospital in Paris in 1863, saw enough to convince him of the value of the drainage in scrofulous disease of bone. SECTIOX VII.—TUMOURS IN BONE, We have already described the various enlai'gements of bone, which depend on hypertrophy and inflammation. Besides these, bone is liable to every variety of tumour, and especially to enchondroma, and the fibrous, and fibro-plastic, which may i-espectively be developed on its surface, or within its substance. We must refer to the Chapter on Tumours for a description of these growths in general; and to that on the Jaws, for further researches on their special characters. Besides these, the following tumours require notice :— I. Tumours from extravasated Blood.—Mr. Travers * de- scribes a case in which, after a blow, the clavicle enlarged into a firm, oval, elastic tumour; which, when punctured by a grooved needle, yielded a few drops of dark grumous blood. The whole bone was extirpated. On examination, it was proved that the tumour had evi- dently originated in a ruptui-e of the vessels of the bone, and an extra- vasation of blood into the cancelli. By the pressure of this blood, and a continuance of the extravasation, the bony tissue was expanded and absorbed ; and the cancelli were converted into chambers filled with dark solid coagula. The tumour was invested by the periosteum. The cephalhcematoma of newly-born children is a state depending on effusion of blood within and around the bones of the head. II. Pulsating Tumours are sometimes developed in bone, and may be of three kinds. 1st. Soft cancer, the circulation through which may be so energetic, that the tumour pulsates, and yields a whizzing sound like that heard in aneurisms. 2ndly. Tumours formed by the development of erectile tissue in the substance of a bone; and, * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxi.