560 STRANGULATED HERNIA. so long if it be tender; and at last, perhaps, the surgeon will be de- lighted to hear a gurgling sound accompanying the return of a portion of intestine. The operator should recollect that too much force may bruise or rupture the viscera, or drive sac and all into the abdomen, or push them between the layers of abdominal muscles, and that he must not be satisfied with a partial reduction of the volume and tension of the tumour, if the vomiting remains unrelieved ; because, as Mr. Mayo has shown, such a diminution might be caused by merely forcing the serum contained in the sac into the abdominal cavity. Taxis with Inversion.—In many cases of strangulated hernia resist- ing the ordinary application of the taxis, reduction has been effected by raising the pelvis and depressing the shoulders, so as to turn the trunk of the patient " topsy turvey." This is best done by raising the pelvis on a chair placed under the lower part of the mattress of the bed, and letting the patient's head and shoulders rest upon the bed itself. Care must be taken to ^keep the legs bent up to the body, and the trunk itself bent forwards, so as to relax completely the aponeurotic struc- tures in the groin. Inversion of the patient acts by the gravitation of the viscera towards the diaphragm, and the dragging of the mesentery and omentum out of the neck of the sac. This, aided by a gentle ap- plication of the taxis, and by fiictions over the belly made in a direction from the strangulated part, will often succeed in overcoming the stran- gulation, when other means fail. If the taxis do not succeed, certain auxiliary measures are commonly resorted to. (a) The first to be mentioned is chloroform, inhaled till it produces complete relaxation and unconsciousness. (6) Bleeding to the approach of syncope may be tried if the patient is robust, the hernia small and of recent date, and if there is much tenderness of the sac or of the abdomen, in which latter case it may be employed before trying the taxis. (c) The hot hath (96°—100° F.) continued long enough to produce great relaxation, is useful in similar cases ; but it must be recollected that a delicate person will not be very likely to bear the shock of an operation, if bled or boiled to death's door first of all. (d) A large dose of opium, or morphia, is a remedy most useful in cases of acute strangulation, if for any reason chloroform be not given ; and especially if the pain and vomiting are violent. (e) The tobacco enema (3j. and Oj. aq. ferv. allowed to stand ten minutes, and half to be used at a time) has certainly been successful in many cases, especially of inguinal hernia; but it is a most dan- o:erous remedy. It has proved immediately fatal to some patients, and has rendered others incapable of surviving the shock of the ope- ration. (/) Cold applied to the tumour by means of pounded ice or a freez- ing mixture (F. 114) in a bladder, is a remedy commonly enumerated ; and is said to be most applicable to large scrotal herniae when the symptoms are not very urgent. But it is not without its hazards ; for it may cause gangrene of the skin if applied too long, or if hot