ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 39 and though they have not the soporific virtues of opium, yet neither do they lock up the bowels. Vide F. 30, 32. 4. To moderate the afflux of blood.—Since the determination of a large current of blood to the affected part, and its stagnation therein, are leading phenomena in acute inflammation, it cannot be wondered at that means for controlling this afflux are of the very highest conse- quence. First amongst these stands— Bloodletting.—A measure life-giving in its proper use, and deadly if abused. Its benefits may be explained on any theory. By diminish- ing the mass of blood, it lessens the labour of the heart and lungs, and allows the remaining blood to be oxygenated and purified by natural influences. It is most particularly indicated, as Dr. Markham has shown, in inflammations complicated with difficulty of breathing, such as pleurisy, fractured rib, &c. It diminishes the rush of blood to the inflamed part, and allows distended venous capillaries to empty themselves. It decreases the specific gravity and increases the absorptive power of the blood; it promotes the action of the skin and bowels; it imitates the spontaneous haemorrhage by which nature often gives great relief; and it produces a most delicious sense of languor and repose, like that of the Turkish bath. Manner of Bleeding.—General bleeding should be executed in such a way as to cause slight faintness as quickly as possible. For this pur- pose the blood should be drawn as quickly as possible, from a large orifice ; and, above all, the patient should sit or stand upright. For if the blood is drawn slowly, so that the vessels have time to adapt them- selves to their diminished contents, or if the patient is lying down, so as to assist the flow of blood to the brain, the bleeding may be con- tinued almost to death without the occurrence of faintness. Quantity to he taken.—As a general rule, the blood should be per- mitted to flow till paleness of the lips, lividity about the eyes, sighing, nausea, fluttering pulse, and relief of the pain, indicate the approach of faintness ; h\xt full faintness should always be avoided. The quantity required to produce this effect, on a healthy adult, was ascertained by Marshall Hall to be about 15 oz,; but in robust adults affected with acute inflammatory or congestive attacks of the head or viscera, a greater quantity may be taken. The class of patients whom it is allowable to bleed, as a general rule, are the robust with red lips, firm muscles, rustic open-air occu- pations, firm pulse, and rigid fibre. Pregnant women usually bear bleeding well. If the lips and conjunctiva are pale, showing defi- ciency of blood; if the patient is bulky, soft, and flabby; if there is any weakness or degeneration of heart; or if there is any continu- ous disease of assimilation—scrofula, Bright's disease, or the like— bleeding can scarcely be thought of. The class of inflammations in which bleeding is permissible are those of sthenic inflammation of vital organs, especially the chest. It is not allowable, as a rule, in the hypinotic class of maladies, nor in erysipelatous diseases; nor in the case of injuries requiring great