SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 93 and in the tarsal tumour. These, which are under our eyes, are types of what we believe to go on in tuberculosis of the lungs and glands of the intestines. Tubercle usually begins as a slow, painless, and unsuspected growth during some period of defective health, and may remain in this condi- tion for an indefinite time. In favourable cases it may remain quiescent, and wither, and be partly absorbed, partly degenerate into a harmless mass of granular, oily, and earthy matter, which may remain till the end of life {cretif cation). In unfavourable cases it softens, beginning at its centre ; an in- flammatory infiltration takes place at the circumference, and pus is formed which is discharged by ulceration along with the softened tubercle. This process is too often attended with an increase of low cell-growth or lymph exudation around the original focus, which rapidly undergoes the same destructive changes. Similar unhealthy changes take place in the lungs, or intestines, or brain, diarrhoea, and hectic come on, until the organs affected be destroyed, and with them the life of the individual. This \s phthisis. General Treatment.—The general indications are to pi'ocure and maintain a healthy condition of the blood, and to protect the patient from depressing influences. To describe at length the general treatment of scrofulous persons would be to write a treatise on general hygiene: we must content our- selves with hinting at the most important points. (1.) The diet should be nutritious, digestible, and abundant, con- sisting, as a general rule, of meat twice a day, good bread, green vege- tables, such as peas, mealy potatoes, cabbage, and the other cmcifero}, preparations of eggs and milk, and a sufflcient quantity of beer or wine to promote digestion, without creating drowsiness or feverishness.* (2.) The clothing should be warm, especially for the extremities, so as to keep up the cutaneous circulation, and prevent congestion in the chest and abdomen. Flannel should be worn next the skin, both in winter and summer: in the former for direct warmth ; in the latter to neutralise any accidental changes of temperature, (3.) Free exercise of the muscles and lungs in pure opeti air is in- di>pensable. All over-exertion of the brain should be avoided. The moral faculties may be trained; self-control inculcated, a thing very necessary to patients who are as passionate and excitable as they are weak; the faculty of observing the objects and operations of JS'ature should be cultivated ; the garden, the farm, and the hill-side should have as much attention as the schoolroom. (4.) The best residence for the scrofulous is one that is warm without being damp in the winter, cool and bracing in the summer, and in the autumn, the sea-side. That climate, coiteris paribus, will be the * The author begs to warn his junior readers against the old-womanish doc- trine, that children ought not to have animal food until they have cut a certain number of teeth. On the contrary, he would state it as a positive rule, that it the teeth are unusually slow in appearing, broth and meat ought on that very account to be given, in order to compensate for the want of nutritive force on which the delay in teething depends.