193 GENERAL HISTORY AND PATHOLOGY. " sivvens" in Scotland.* Yet it remained part of the English medical creed on Hunter's ipse dixit; and it was even engrained by the earlier researches and doctrines of M. Ricord. This eminent syphilographer, well represented in England by his pupil Mr. Acton, believed that every primary chancre was inoculable during a certain portion of its existence ; but that secondary ulcers, resulting from general infection of the body, were not so. He believed that infants could be syphi- lized by transmission of the disease through father or mother to the embryo ; but disbelieved the idea that any secondary soi'e, in other words, any sore not the result of primary inoculation, could be propa- gated by inoculation. It will seem incredible to another generation how these false doctrines perverted men's minds and led them to explain away the notorious facts of the infection of nurses by syphilitic children; and of other healthy children and of husbands by syphilized nurses. Jt was asserted, for instance, that for a child to infect its nurse's nipples, it must itself have received the contagion from a primary chancre in its mouth !f After the non-identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis, and the reaffir- mation of the contagiousness of secondary syphilis, the next great step in modern times, has been the determination of the difference between the soft or local non-infecting sore, and the true indurated syphilitic chancre. This was effected on the Continent by Bassereau, Rollet, Fournier, and Clerc, who in 1855 announced the doctrine that the secretion of an in- fecting sore could not be inoculated on the same subject—a theory whicli, as Mr. Lee says, " might have been deduced fi-om Kicord's dogma, that a person can have syphilis once only."| In England the real state of things was made known by the original independent researches of Mr. Henry Lee published from time to time in the Med. Chir. Trans., British and Foreign Med. Review, &c. Mr. Lee showed in 1853 that the suppurating sore is a different disease from the indurated or infecting sore; and in 1856 that the former can readily be inoculated on the patient whilst the latter cannot. And hence we see the fallacy which beset Ricord's inoculations. A true chancre, after a few days, produces, as vaccination does, a constitutional diathesis, which renders the patient insusceptible to a fresh attack for some time—perhaps for life. Hence a true syphilitic sore, primary or secondary, cannot, under ordinary circumstances, be inoculated on the same patient. But it is a gi'eat mistake to infer, as Ricord and Hunter did, that a secondary sore cannot be inoculated on anothei- person ; in other words, that it is not contagious. * The popular name of syphilis amongst the peasantry of certain parts of Scotland, where it had been handed down from ancestors who had got it from the Puritan soldiers of Cromwell—derived from ihe resemblance of mucous tubercles and florid projecting cicatrices to raspberries—identical with button scurvy of Ireland, and most likely with the African and West Indian Yaws. See Benjamin Bell, op. cit. t See Acton's Complete Practical Treatise on Venereal Diseases, Lond. IStl. For a full demonstration of the contai;;iousness of infantile hereditary syphilis, see Diday on Infantile Syphilis, published by the New Sydenham Society, 1859. X Lectures, p. 27. D O