40 ACUTE INFLAMMATION. constitutional efforts for their reparation, as compound fractures ; nor if the disease be advanced towards suppuration or gangrene; and very seldom indeed in tlie case of any zymotic disease, or inflammation having a natural tendency to recovery. Local Bloodletting.—Whilst it must be admitted that in a past generation general bloodletting was carried to an injurious excess, in the present day it is to be feared that local bloodletting is too much neglected. It is a most obvious, rational, and mild process; and it imitates and seconds the efforts of nature by removing some of that blood which may be assumed to be impure, and by talking it from the part where it is in excess. The local means of abstracting blood are leeches, cupping, and scari- fications. In order to apply leeches, the part should first be washed, and if they will not stick, a little milk or blood should be smeaied on it, or some small punctures should be made with the point of a lancet; and the leeches should be well dried in a cloth. The best plan of stopping hajmorrhage from leech-bites is to dip small pellets of lint in tinct. ferri sesquichloridi, or powdered alum, and press them on the holes for a few minutes. Otlier plans are to touch them with a red- hot knitting-needle, or to stitch them up with a very fine needle and silk, or to apply a small juece of matico leaf. But in order to pre- vent dangerous bleeding, directions should always be given that the leech-bites should be stopped before any patient is left for the night. Moreover, it will be prudent to apply them over some bone, so that pressure may be applied effectually. Again, leeches, if they stick too long, should be removed by touching them with salt, and should not be pulled off Ibrcibly ; nor should they be ai)plied to the eyelids or pre- puce, otherwise they will probably be followed by cedematous swell- ing. Cupping, when it am be adopted, is a more active measure, and relieves pain sooner than leeches. Punctures are of use in superficial inflammations of the skin; incisions are of use when inflamed parts are covered with a dense unyielding fascia, as in whitlow ; or when there is great tension, as in phlegmonous erysipelas; or when the in- flamed part is infiltrated with an irritating fluid, as in extravasation of urine, or with unhealthy matter, as in carbuncle. Cold is a valuable means of diminishing afflux of blood, and morbid heat. It may be applied by evaporation by means of a single piece of thin linen frequently changed and dipped into cold water or evajyorating lotion (F. 115); and care should be taken that the vapour may pass off freely, otherwise the cold lotion will soon be con- verted into a hot fomentation. Or dry cold may be applied by means of bladders filled with water, ice, or frigorific mixtures. It must be observed that dry cold applications are less irritating than wet; and india-rubber bags, or glass or metal bottles, less so than bladders. The surgeon must use his discretion as to the degree of cold. The possi- bility of causing sloughing must not be forgotten either.* Or by irrigation, as recommended by Dr. Macartney. The inflamed limb is * See Esmarch's Ess£iy on the Use of Cold in Surgery. Syden. See.