735 SLINGS AND BANDAGING. stole, and fastened by the ends, being sewn on each side of a slipper. By this means the patient is enabled to move on crutches with little pain and danger to the injured part. II. Bandages usually consist of strips of linen, calico, or flannel, varying in breadth from one to three, five, or more inches, and in length from one to six, eight, or twelve yards, Sometinies they are made of india-rubber web, or of a substance like stockings; but, for most purposes, stout unbleached calico, or thin fine calico, will answer. They are generally rolled up longitudinally for use, and hence have re- ceived the name of rollers. Besides the simple roller, there are many compound bandages, as the T bandage, and the many-tailed bandage (described at p. 286) ; but the latter are not now much in use, and, like other special bandages, are generally prepared by professed band- age-makers. Lastly, bandages may often be made out of handkerchiefs, or square pieces of linen, III. The chief uses of bandages are, 1st, to keep on dressings, to pro- tect a diseased part from injury, and put some little restraint upon its motions ; 2ndly, to affoi'd a support to relaxed muscles, ligaments, and vessels. Deprive any part of its normal support, and varicose veins and dropsical effusions are sure to occur ; and conversely many cedema- tous and other chronic swellings of the limbs and joints may often be cured by the proper application of bandages alone. IV. The Roller.—In applying this to any limb, the surgeon should hold it as represented at p. 72, or in the next figure but one, and should pass it from one hand to the other as he encircles the limb with it. He should begin at the extremity of the limb, applying it most tightly there, and a very little more loosely as it ascends. He should unfold very little of it at a time, and should make each fold overlap about a third of the previous one. When the limb increases in size, he must turn the bandage on itself after the manner depicted in the cuts. V. Bandage for the Finger.—This is a simple strip of linen, that may be wound round the finger a few times with the requisite tightness. We introduce the figure in order to show how to fasten it