AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH AND GUMS. 492 established. In November the enlarged glands were removed by Dr. Duncan. The disease returned in the cicatrices of the wounds, and spread chiefly in the upper part of the neck. Death occurred in July 1849. The diseased part of the tongue and the gland, which were excised, were infiltrated with epithelium. Paget observes, however, that a col- lection of epithelium may form deep in the tissues of this organ, without any primary changes of its surface. Treatment.—In any such cases, and in the case of any ulcer, when the failure of all treatment gives room for suspicion, free and early ex- tirpation should be performed, by means of the e'craseur. Amongst palliative measures the application of ice may be found useful. The cases ot these two eminent members of the profession present a subject for useful comparison. The epithelioma was here quite as malignant as the cancer. Yet diseases, though equally fatal, should not be confounded, if their anatomical elements are distinct.* SECTION V.—AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH AND GUMS. I. Lancing of the Gums of children may be performed for two reasons. If the gum is swelled, inflamed, and tender, whether or not a tooth be quite ready to come through, a free incision may be made with a fine lancet, for the purpose of letting blood flow. But if it is tightly stretched over a tooth, which is bursting through, the incision should be carried down to and all along the tooth, so as to release it entirely. In either case a sharp and pointed instrument should be used, to be thrust in with its back to the tooth, and made to cut its way out. The common gum lancets are blunt and butcherly. II. Irregularity of the Permanent Teeth is a consequence of contracted and ill-formed jaw-bones. If either of the canine teeth or of the incisors of either jaw project much, the patient should be taught perpetually to endeavour to push it back into its proper position with his fingers. But if at the age of fourteen or fifteen this method has not succeeded, and the teeth are much crowded, the projecting tooth may be removed, although in many cases it is better to sacrifice one of the bicuspides to make room for it. If a growing child is underhung, so that the under incisors come in front of the upper ones when the mouth is shut, or so that the teeth meet at the cutting edges, instead of the lower teeth being received within the upper, the child should be encouraged daily to push the upper teeth forwards with its tongue and fingers r and should frequently put the end of a spoon-handle behind the upper incisors, and then close the mouth, using the spoon as a lever to press the upper teeth forwards and the lower ones backwards. But if these simple means do not succeed, recourse should be had to the appliances used by professional dentists.f * For Dr. Reid's case, see Hughes Bennett on Cancer, &c.; Arnott. Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxii. The author has to thank Mr. Birkett and Mr. Avery for some particulars of Mr. Cooper's case. f A good accomit of which will be found in Tomes's Lectures on Dental Sui-gery.