712 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. This is the power by which irritation of any part causes its muscles to contract. Hence, the torpefaction of this power insures the absence of invohmtary movement, and the complete relaxation of the voluntary muscles. But if carried a little too far, it abolishes breathing too, and death ensues fi om apnoea. It will be more convenient to treat of death from chloroform a little further on. There are one or two minuter facts, which are well worth knowing. All parts of the body do not become insensible in equal times. For instance, in experiments on rats and mice with ether, Dr. Anstie found that the hind quarters remained powerless, and the muzzle in- sensible, after the conjunctiva, skin of the chest, and forelimbs had recovered their sensibility and mobility respectively.* " Certain por- tions of the skin and subcutaneous tissue," says Dr. Anstie, " retain their sensibility with extraordinary tenacity; these are the matrix of the great toe nail, the margin of the anus, and the whole of the skin of the organs of generation. It is impossible to obliterate their sensibility without pushing chloroformization to a degree which greatly surpasses that required for ordinary purposes. This explains the frequency with which death has happened in the course of anaesthesia induced from the performance of operations for phymosis, evulsion of the toe nail, haemorrhoids, &c." Involuntary passage of urine or faeces during pro- longed anaesthesia is a symptom of paralysis of the sympathetic and betokens danger. Dose.—In speaking of the dose of chloroform, it must be remembered that it is not the mere quantity inhaled, without reference to time, but the quantity present in the blood in a given time, which is to be regarded. Patients may be kept under its influence a long time, and thus may inhale a large quantity with safety; but even a small quantity too rapidly inhaled, and insufficiently diluted with air, may be dangerous. Dr. Snow calculated that about twelve minims of chloroform circulating in the blood of an adult pi'oduce the second degree of narcotism, eighteen minims the degree in which operations are performed ; a little more than thirty suffice to arrest respiration, and thirty-six or thirty-seven to stop the action of the heart. These numbers refer to the quantity actually circulating in the blood at a given time. It is necessary also to bear in mind, that when a patient is inhaling air highly charged with chloroform, the narcotic effects con- tinue to increase, as Dr. Snow pointed out, for twenty seconds, after the inhalation is discontinued, owing to the absorption of the vapour remaining in the lungs. But it seems very certain, that much less is requisite for producing full insensibility in some persons than in others,! * Stimulants and Narcotics, their Mutual Eolations, with Special Researches on the Action of Alcohol, Ether, and Chloroform on the Vital Organism. By- Francis E. Ansiie, M.D., &c. Lond., Macmillan, 1864, pp. 302—353, &c. f Sibson, Med. Gaz., vol. vi., p. 276; T. Wakley, Lancet, 1848, vol. i., p. 19 ; Dr. Snow, Med. Times, 31st August, 1850 ; on Death from Chloroform, London Journal of Medicine, April, 1852; case of Death, Med. Times, Oct. 19, 1852 ; see also Lancet, Oct. 29,'l853.—Dr. Crisp, Lancet, 1853, vol. i. How shall we