17 ATKOPHY—DEGENERATION. general, and gives it its limits, and insures harmony and proportion amongst the vaiious growing parts, is unknown. If we appeal to the organic nerves which regulate the diameter of the capillaries and the distribution of blood, we then require to ask what influences the nerves—what makes the mamma?, for example, grow at puberty and during pregnancy, and not at other times. One thing is certain, that hypertrophy, per se, is no sign of general excess of force, but may be of the contrary; for example, the large hands and feet and joints of ill- nourished childi'en, and the big brain and thyroid gland of the rickety and antemic. The treatment of hypertrophy must consist in removing the causes, if possible. IV. Atrophy is the reverse of hypertrophy ; it is the wasting of an organ in size. V. Degeneration.—This may be defined to be the loss of the proper structural characteristics of an organ; or the substitution of a lower for a higher form of tissue; so that degeneration differs from pure atrophy, although some amount of it is usually superadded. The chief forms of degeneration are—1st, The obese, in which there is a development of fatty tissue, occupying the place of muscle, or some other higher tissue. This is often seen in the heart. 2ndly. The fibrous, in which fibrous tissue, often imperfect or fibroid, is substituted. There is also a kind of degeneration called the waxy or lardaoeous, and another closely alh'ed, called the amyloid, in which an obscurely fibroid, or almost amorphous substance, resembling starch in some of its reactions with iodine, is infiltrated into or substituted for certain tissues, especially the liver and spleen. 3rdly. The fatty, or oily, which does not consist in development of fatty tissue ; but in decay or molecular death of the proper substance of an organ, and its conversion into a mass of granules, mixed with oil globules and crystals of cholesterine. 4thly. The earthy, or calcareous, common in the placenta; in which after decay and solution of a tissue, or more probably of some exudation which has infiltrated it, there remains a crystalline mass of carbonate and phosphate of lime, with traces of magnesia. This, although commonly called ossification, is not so really, as the earthy matter is amoi'phous or crystalline, and not disposed in the form of bone tissue. Yet there are instances in which true bone is developed in fibrinous exudations, as in the ear and eye. So the ossification of cartilage is a senile degeneration.* 5thly. The pigmentary, in which there is an accumulation of black matter. The fatty degeneration is liable to affect the muscles, and particularly the heart; it may occur in the cornea of the aged, the lungs of the em- physematous, the kidneys of those who die of Bright's disease, and in every variety of cell growth and tumour. It has no connexion with general obesity. * See Toynbee, Ossification of Ear, Path. Trans. 1860, vol. xi., p. 224; Obre', True Bone in Eye, ib. p. 225 ; also Ernest Hart, ib. vol. xiii. p. 212. D C