SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. 300 found ulcerated; and between it and the bone there is a small quantity of highly-vascular lymph growing out of the carious cancelli. When the cai'tilage is perforated, inflammation and suppuration ensue in the joint; abscess bursting outwardly follows. In some few cases, from the rapidity of the caries, the cartilage is detached en masse; and sometimes necrosis of a small portion of'the bone ensues. This disease most frequently affects the hip, knee, elbow, and small bones of the carpus and tarsus : it is very common in scrofulous chil- dren, but rare after thirty. An advanced stage gives rise to what was formerly called spina ventosa; that is, the extremity of the bone becomes greatly enlarged by superficial deposits, but is hollowed out into a mere shell by caries in its interior. The prognosis, in the first stage, that is, before swelling has occurred, may be favourable; but after swelling has existed for some time, the patient will be fortunate in recovering with anchylosis ; and after sup- puration, he will, if an adult, be almost certainly compelled to sufler excision. 4. In some instances, as the author has seen in practice, a joint may be disorganized through the presence of scrofulous exudation and sup- puration into the areolar tissue contiguous to it. This case requires no particular observation, except that any suppurating spot should be opened early.* Treatment.—If there be much pain, the first and most indispensable measure is perfect rest; which must be insured by swinging the limb (if one of the lower joints of the leg be affected), and by a sling (if those of the arm), confining the joint with a starched bandage (not too tight) or splint of gutta percha, or of thick leather softened in hot water, accurately moulded to the part, and then lined with flannel. The use of splints is two-fold. First, to prevent deformity ; secondly, to insure rest. But we do not intend to say that eveiy patient with scrofulous disease of knee, or hip, or ankle, should be kept absolutely at rest during the whole course of the disease; on the contrary, during the convalescent stage the patient may go out on crutches with the joint bandaged, and the leg supported by a sling round the neck, so as to get fresh air and exercise; provided always that no pain is occa- sioned. 2. Occasional leechings may be used in the early stages, when the pain is severe. But loss of blood is merely a palliative of acci- dental fits of inflammation. 3. Counter-irritation either by a seton, or caustic issue, or the actual cautery, is a measure which was more in repute formerly than it is now; the cases in which it is most service- able are the very painful joint ulcerations of adults; to scrofulous children it is more likely to be hurtful than advantageous. A capital plan in these cases is a succession of small blisters applied over different parts of the joint, following the pain, and never suffered to remain too long. The application of iodine paint, either in patches or over the * This kind of affection was particularly described by Mr. Wickham on Diseases of Joints, p. 84. See also Coulson on Hip Joint, p. 85; and South's Chelius, vol. i. p. 210.