HARE-LIP. 469 ing the parts carefully with plugs of lint, till they have acquired firm- ness. But it may be done still more completely by a method which was proposed by Dieffenbach, and a modification of which has been practised with great success by Mr. W. Fergusson. "The point of a small scalpel," says Mr. Fergusson, " was introduced undo- the apex, and the ala; were separated from the parts underneath; next the knife was carried on each side between the skin and the bones, as far as the infraorbital foramen, taking care not to interfere with the nerves, when, by passing the point of my finger below the nose, I caused the latter organ to be as prominent as could be wished. I now passed a couple of long silver needles, which had been prepared for the purpose, with round heads and steel points, across from one cheek to the other, having previously applied on each side a small piece of sole leather, perfoi ated with holes at a proper distance; then I cut off the steel points, and with tweezeis so twisted at the end of each needle, as to cause the cheeks to come close to each other, and thus to render the nose prominent. Thus, by bringing the cheeks more into the mesial line, a new foundation, as it were, was given to the organ. Adhesion occurred in some places, granulations in others ; in the lapse of ten days the needles were withdrawn, and in the course of a tew weeks, when cicatrization was complete, the nose presented as favourable an appearance as could reasonably have been desired."* 5. Depression of the ridge, owing to the loss of the ossa nasi, may be remedied by paring the surface, and covering it with a flap of skin from the forehead ; or by making a longitudinal incision, and engraft- ing a small portion of skin from the forehead into it; or, if the case is slight, by cutting out one or two transverse slips, and bringing the cut edges together by sutures, so that thus the surface may be stretched to its proper level. IV". Hare-Lip signifies a congenital fissure of the upper lip, arising from arrest of development. Its usual place is just on the left side of the middle line; and it may exist on one side only, or there may be a double fissure with a small flap of skin between. With the im- perfect development of the skin there is usually more or less of the same condition in the bone. That part of each superior max- illary bone which contains the incisor teeth, and which consti- tutes a distinct bone in the human embryo, and in many animals—the intermaxillary, or premaxillary of Owen—the divided hgemal spine of the nasal vertebra—may be discon- nected on one or both sides, leaving a gap in the alveolus, which may possibly extend backwards, and be complicated with fissure of the palate. This intermediate portion may be displaced and attached like a snout to * Practical Surgery, 3rd edit., p. 578.