450 CANCER OF THE EYE. orbit either internal or external to this sheath. If internal to it, there will be a chemosed-like projection of the conjunctiva at its angle of reflection from the eyeball to the palpebra. If intense pain, unrelieved by treatment, with shivering, indicates the presence of pus, a puncture should be cautiously made within the palpebrse by the side of the eye- ball. II. Cancer may affect the eye or other contents of the orbit, parti- cularly during the earlier periods of life. It may occur in anv form, and affect any structure; for the common opinion that it usually first attacks the optic nerve or retina, is, according to Lebert and Paget, not well founded. The scirrhous, or hard variety, is very rare; most ocular cancers being of the soft or else of the melanotic variety. 1. Cancer within the Orbit.—Weight, perhaps pain in the orbit, and displacement of the eye, with dimness of vision, are the earliest symp- the cervical glands, and in distant organs, follow in succession. 2. Cancer vnthin the Eye.—After some amount of vascularity, and of other signs of derangement of the eye—or, perhaps, after if has been discovered (if the patient is a child) that the sight of the eye is lost— an examination is made, and a patch of metallic lustre, of a grayish, reddish, or yellowish-white colour is discovered deep in the eye, behind the crystalline lens. The iris is tarnished, and sluggish. As the tu- mour grows, and comes nearer to the cornea, it can usually be clearly distinguished as being lobulated, and covered with blood-vessels. In time, it fills the eye, and presses the iris against the surface of the cornea, the eyeball is tense and painful, and the surrounding parts very vascular. Finally, it bursts through the cornea or sclerotica; a huge fungus protrudes, and the disease arrives at a fatal termination through the stages we have just indicated. The diagnosis of intra-ocalar cancer is important, because deposits of * From a drawing of a preparation in King's College Museum, with which the author was favoured by Mr. Partridge. toms; which are followed by the protrusion of a tu- mour. Engorge- ment of the sur- rounding blood- A^essels, destruction of the eyeball, ad- hesion of the palpe- brge, protrusion of a large tumour, bleeding, slough- ing, or exuding thin offensive dis- charge, and cancer- ous deposits in the cranial cavity, in