653 LITHOTOMY. tion be applied indiscriminately to all cases. There are an infinity of minute variations in the manner of performing if, and in the instru- ments employed by different surgeons. In the following pacres the author proposes to describe chiefly the method employed bv Mr Fero-us- son which he has had many opportunities of witnessing at the King's College Hospital. ° 1. Lateral Operation.-The instruments needed are the follow- ing : A sharp-pointed knife ; a straight probe-pointed knife if necessary to enlarge the internal incision ; a curved staff, deeply grooved;—it should be lai ge, the groove deep and not extending more than half way up the straight part of the instrument;—Mr. Fergusson's staff has the groove on the left side ;—forceps of various sizes, and scoops for extract- ing the stone 5 and a sound to make sure that the bladder is empty after the operation. Needles and tenacula, canulaj and a stone-crusher, may be at hand, in case of need. The bladder may contain a little urine—as much as would collect in an hour.* The best operators prefer it empty rather than fall, and do not inject it if empty, as was formerly taught. If the bladder be empty the stone will be close to its neck;—if full when cut into, instead of contracting regularly it falls together in folds which may entangle the stone. It is advisable that the bowels should be cleared in the morning with a simple enema. The surgeon must take care that there is a good firm table for the operation ; about two feet and a half high. When the time is come, the patient should lie down on this, and be put under the influence of chloroform. Then the staff may be introduced, and should be made to act as a sound, to make clear the existence of the stone to the operator and his assistants. If the staff does not serve this purpose, a sound must be used; for this is a point about.which there should be no mistake. The next point is to place the patient in a convenient posture. He was formerly placed on his back, with his shoulders resting in the lap * See Thompson, op. cit.