INFLAMMATION. 32 into two forms—the parenclymatous, when tlie process runs its course in the interior of a tissue without our being able to detect the pre- sence of any free fluid which has escaped from the blood ; and the exu- dative or secreting, where an increased escape of fluid takes place from the blood. This belongs especially to surfaces—as serous, and especially mucous membranes. ^Meanwhile, the newly-produced elements tend to degenerate into pus, whilst the proper elements of the tissue are starved and choked, and undergo fatty degeneration. In the last generation, peculiar interest was attached to the condition of the blood-vessels, which were believed to be the seat and factors of inflammation. Although we see (or think we see) more deeply, it is as well to l ecord the results of Paget and Wharton Jones's observations. 1. The primary effect of a slight stimulus applied to the blood- vessels, is a slight and temporary contraction, with a retardation of the current thiough them. If the point of a fine needle be drawn across a minute artery and vein three or four times, without injuring them or the membrane covering them, they will both presently gradu- ally contract and close. This contraction is no doubt analogous to the speedy closure of the innumerable small vessels divided in a wound, which are made to contract by the very stimulus of the instrument which has divided them. 2. During this contraction, the blood moves more slowly, or perhaps does not move at all. But when the vessels dilate again, they acquiie a larger size than they originally had, and the blood moves more freely and rapidly through them than it did before. And now the same stimulus that made them contract at fiist has no effect, or a very tran- sient one; a more powerful stimulus, however, may make them again contract and close. On applying a more powerful irritant, such as a drop of tincture of capsicum, the preliminary contraction, if it occur at all, is so transient as to be hardly perceptible, but the phenomena of active congestion or determination of blood become instantly developed. The blood-vessels become rapidly dilated, lengthened, and tortuous ; sometimes even they display varicose or aneurismal excrescences ; they are tensely filled with blood, containing a lai ge excess of red globules, which is circulated with far greater velocity than is natural. 3. But if the injury inflicted be of still greater severity, as a wound with a red-hot needle, then in addition to the preceding state of active congestion, there follows, in the very focus of the morbid changes, a retardation, and, at last, a complete stagnation of the blood in the densely-crowded capillaries. "All round this focus," says Paget, " the vessels are as full, or nearly as full, as they are in it; but the blood moves in them with a quicker stream, or may pulsate in the arteries, and oscillate in the veins; yet farther from this focus the blood moves rapidly through turgid but less full vessels." The dusky colour in the centre of a phlegmon ; the throbbing ; the red blush around ; the gush of blood on cutting into it, are thus fully explained.