724 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. veins, application of the actual cautery, formation of issues, and the like. For extensive and deep operations, and those in which perfect quiet is requisite, it is insufficient. Besides its use as an antesthetic before operations, it has been employed to check the growth of cancer and nsevus, and to assuage the pain of boils, carbuncle, gout and neuralgia. The writer has used it in whitlow, and it gave relief to the pain, but did not hinder the formation of matter. For the application of the freezing mixture to ulcerated surfaces, a fine india-rubber bag or gut may be used. Dentists employ a modifi- cation of a process invented by Dr. James Arnott, for passing a stream of water of any temperature through a membranous bag over a diseased part. In the apartment over the operating-room is an apparatus by which at first a stream of water of the temperature of the body, and then a saline solution, gi adually cooled down to about 15° of Fahren- heit, or lower, is made to pass through an india-rubber tube. At one part of this tube there is inserted a tube of the thinnest possible india- rubber, which is wrapped around the condemned tooth and the adjoin- ing gum, and through which the cold current acts upon those parts. The writer has seen the process conducted by Mr. Quinton, and can testify that the success of it was complete ; that is to say, it occasioned no pain itself, and it allowed a tooth to be pulled 'out without any. The gum was blanched, and did not bleed, but the tooth, and inside of the socket did. Kinsing the mouth for some time with cold water takes away all unpleasant consequences. The writer's objection to the process is, that it is more troublesome than the result is worth; especially if many teeth are to be operated on.* Mesmerism.—There is no doubt but that the manoeuvres which are called mesmeric passes, if practised long enough upon susceptible per- sons, are capable of producing a kind of cataleptic condition accompanied with insensibility to external impressions, and that in this state surgi- cal operations have, in many instances, especially amongst the natives of India, been performed without the patient's consciousness. But ample objections to mesmerism, as a medical agent, may be gathered from the works of its advocates. The writer has most carefully analysed the works of Dr. Esdaile, a surgeon of great experience in India; in which it is asserted, 1st, as to the nature of mesmerism :—" That it is the transmission of nervous matter to the brain of the patient from the brain of the agent, through the nerves of the latter." Which is no- where proved. 2ndly, as to the process:—That it consists in touching some part of the patient's body, breathing on it, and making stroking movements, called passes; but it is alleged that the intention or will of the operator is the chief agent, no matter how the passes are made. 3rdlv, as to the effects :—That they consist of various degrees of insen- * See Dr. James Arnott's pamphlet on benumbing cold as a preventive of pain and inflammation from surgical operations, with minute directions for use, 1854. Pamphlets by Mr. Quinton, Mr. Blundell, and others on Anesthetic Dentistry. Mr. Butcher, in his Observations on Hare-Lip, Dublin, 1856, speaks briefly on the use of cold, but complains that it causes pain in the case of children with hare-lip; as much pain as the operation itself.