122 CANCER* former would be taking away only part of the disease already existing : for instance, in cancer of the eye, or of the testis, some part within the head or abdomen is commonly affected likewise, and operations in such cases are most larely successful. That some patients are killed by the operation itself; and that some have died from being operated on for what afterwards proved to be no cancer at all. On the other hand, in fawnr of extirpation, it must be said that life may undoubtedly often be prolonged by it. That if the disease does return, an operation, thanks to chloroform, may be painless, and the interval one of health and comfort; and that it is possible the disease may not be cancer, but some othei- growth which excision might cure. The fiist point the surgeon should consider is, whether an operation can be performed without danger to life; for it would be both useless and unjustifiable to perform it, if the health were so completely broken down, or visceral disease so advanced, that the patient was liable to sink after it, or if the diseased mass were so adherent, or extensive, that it could not be removed effectually, so that the wound made by the operation would not heal. The methods of extirpation are two—the knife, and caustics. The knife is undoubtedly to be preferred in all cases as the most merciful ; and decidedly so, if the tumour is circumscribed, and can be removed entire, leaving a wound capable of healing by the first intention, so as to give the patient the chance of the most rapid recovery possible. Caustics, or astringent substances used assiduously, and in sufficient strength to shrivel up and kill the diseased tissue, are of the greatest service in cases for which the knife is not available. In the case, for instance, of an open foetid sore, or of a protruding mass giving issue to blood or to foetid sanious discharge, the chloride of zinc, in the form of Bur7ietfs solution, is an admirable thing. The writer has long been in the habit of using it in cancer of the womb; and its powers of checking foetid discharge and bleeding, of allaying burning pain, and of causing soft masses to shrink, are great. It may be applied in varying strength according to circumstances; so dilute as to be a mild asti'ingent and deodorizer, or so concentrated as to be a powerful caustic. The point seems to be to deaden the surface, then to get it to absorb as much of the chloride as possible, so as to tan a considerable depth, and to continue the process till the whole of a diseased mass comes out as a slough. One part of the solution to 64 of water is a good proportion to begin with, but it may be increased. F. 117. There are other caustics in great variety from which the surgeon may make his choice,* such as Manec's arsenical paste, or Canquoin's chloride of zinc paste, described at p. 81. Dr. Simpson recommends the sulphate of zinc dried and powdered, and sprinkled on the sore, or made into a paste with glycerine or lard, in the proportion of an ounce of the sulphate to a drachm of glycerine, or two drachms of lard. It is * An interesting account of them all is given by Mr. Spencer Wells, Med. Times, July 11, 1857. See also Simpson, Med. Times, Jan. 17, 1857.