WRYNECK. 526 last possibly involving the great vessels, or attached to the vertebrae. If subjacent to the skin merely, and freely moveable on the subjacent tissues, they may readily be removed; but if they lie deep, and are bound down by the platysraa and fascia, they require some consideration. If a tumour be of slow growth, defined in its outline, and moveable, so that it be probably not cancer, or if it interferes with deglutition or respiration, its extirpation may be attempted. If any suspicious tu- mour be of recent origin, the surgeon should wait, to see whether rapidity of growth and implication of adjacent parts give reason for believing it to be cancerous. See the remarks on the removal of tumours in Part V. VI. Wryneck is a peculiar distortion in which the head is bent down towards one shoulder (generally the right), and the ftice is turned to the opposite. The right eyebrow and right corner of the mouth generally become elevated, so as to preserve their horizontal position, notwithstanding the distortion of the neck. Varieties.—This affection presents many varieties. It may perhaps be only a part of general lateral curvature of the spine. Or, 2, it may depend on caries of the cervical vertebrje. 3, It may be caused by contraction of the cicatrix of a burn or ulcer. Or, 4, by glandular enlargement on one side of the neck; the treatment of which cases requires no observation in this place. But the genuine wryneck is produced by contraction of one sterno- mastoid muscle, which may depend, 1, on inflammatory or rheumatic spasm of that muscle. This form generally occurs somewhat suddenly to weakly children with disordered digestive organs. The writer has seen it as one of the kinds of rheumatic affections which follow scarlet fever. The muscle is hot and tender, and any motion causes pain. Treatment.—Perfect rest in the horizontal posture, and poultices, or hot fomentations, so as to keep the skin constantly moist and perspir- able, with purgatives and carbonate of ammonia, followed by bark with carbonate of ammonia, warm salt baths, and good diet.* 2. It may depend on rigidity and atrophy of the muscle, which may be a sequel of the state of inflammatory spasm last described, or may be congenital. Treatment.—The use of a machine to keep up extension, may be of service in cases that are of no very long duration. If it fail, as it probably will, or if the case be congenital, division of the sternal origin of the muscle (or perhaps of the clavicular also) is the last resource. It is best performed thus :—The skin covering the muscle at about an inch from the sternum is to be pinched up between the left forefinger and thumb. A narrow curved bistoury is then to be thrust under the muscle, and is to be made to divide it as it is being withdrawn ; but the wound in the skin must only be large enough to admit the instru- ment. The aperture may be made at the anterior border of the right * For further information respecting this form of wryneck, consult Aber- nethy. Lecture xxxii.; James on Inflammation, 2nd ed., p. 484 ; Brodie on Local Nervous Affections; and Coley, Med. Gaz., N. S., vol. iv., p. 148.