ERYSIPELAS. 61 spared to obviate the causes, and to prevent the \ extension of these diseases. Hospitals should have rooms in which the convalescents should be during the day. The floors should be dry-rubbed and polished, not washed. The walls and ceilings should be whitewashed at regular short intervals. Ventilation should be constantly watched ; a space of at least 1.500 cubic feet be allowed for each patient in a ward. The feather beds and mattresses should be baked, and the bedsteads be taken to pieces and exposed to the air at least once a year. No patient should be put into a bed just quitted by another. The patients should be obliged, when practicable, to use the warm bath and soap, and when not able to do so their feet should be washed often. On the outbreak of the disease, all the inmates who can be moved should be sent away, and the infected ward be shut up. It ought to be a capital oifence, to bring a patient labouring under erysipelas, pyaemia, sloughing sore, profuse and fetid suppuration, or the like, into any ward of a civil hospital amongst other patients. Such persons should be treated in out- buildings, or separate wards by themselves. Surgeons and pupils should not come to the bedside, especially to a midwifery case, immediately from the dead-house or dissecting-room, still less from a case of ery- sipelatous disease. The dressings and bandages used in any case should be destroyed, and tow, which may be destroyed when once used, should be substituted for sponge, which would be used again and again. Bags filled with charcoal should be placed so as to absorb all putrid vapoui's. Disinfectants should be used to all discharges, faeces, &c., and to all sinks, closets, and drains. Condy's, Burnett's, Macdougal's, or chloride of lime may be used, but cheap tincture of iodine is the best of any : this last may be put into plates under the beds to pui'ifv the air, F. 203. SECTION II.—THE CUTANEOUS AND CELLULO-CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. Definition.—Diffused inflammation of the skin, or skin and cellular tissue, with a tendency to spread. Symptoms.—The cutaneous or smj9/e erysipelas is known by redness of the skin, which disappears momentarily on pressure;—considerable pufiy swelling from serous effusion into the cellular tissue ;—and severe stinging, burning, or smarting pain. The redness is generally of a vivid scarlet hue; but it will be faint and yellowish if the disease is attended with much debility, or if it affect the eyelids, scrotum, or other loose cellular parts, where it always produces a good deal of serous effusion. The nearest lymphatic glands are always swelled and tender. In the cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous erysipelas the redness is deeper, and sometimes dusky or purple, and it is scarcely, if at all, dis- pelled by pressure;—the swelling is much greater, and is hard, brawny, and tense ;—and the pain is not only burning, but throbbing. Constitutional symptoms.—Both varieties are ushered in with shiver-