88 MORTIFICATION FROM PRESSURE. occurs; and the slough, which is mostly an oval patcli of skin and cel- lular tissue, separates. Treatment.—The part should be placed in an elevated position, and numerous punctures should be made with a needle, to let the serum exude. The mortified part, and the ulcer that results, are to be treated by warm poultices of yeast, with stimulating dressings, of which the nitric-acid lotion is the best. II. Mortification from Pressure, Bed Sores, &c.—When a patient is confined to bed with some very tedious and debilitating malady, as a fever—and especially if he has not strength to shift his posture occasionally—the skin covering various projecting bony parts (as the sacrum, brim of the ilium, or great trochanter) is apt to inflame and rapidly ulcerate or slough; and more particularly if irritated by neglect of cleanliness or by the contact of urine. The first thing often complained of by the patient is a sense of pricking, as though there were crumbs of salt in the bed. The part, if examined at first, looks red and rough; then becomes excoriated and ulcerates, or turns black and mortifies. This accident is particularly liable to happen if the spinal cord has been injured. It is well to remark that the nates sometimes slough, apparently from stagnation, at the fold of the skin which hangs down, and not where the bones press on the bed. Treatment.—When long confinement to bed is expected, it is a good plan to apply some stimulant to the skin of the back and hips, to cause it to secrete a thicker cuticle, and enable it to bear pressure better. Nothing can be better for this purpose than brandy or eau de Cologne. If the part seems likely to suffer, it may be covered with a broad piece of calico spread with soap plaster; and small pillows, or macintosh cushions, or ox-bladders half filled with water, or water-cushions of vulcanised india-rubber, should be arranged so as to take off the weight from the part affected; and the patient should be made to shift his position often, or occasionally lie on his face. The soft poultice (F. 153) will be found of great service. After sloughing has commenced, the ung. resinae or F. 163 is the best application. III. Senile Gangrene.—A form of dnj gangrene affecting the fingers or toes. Symptoms.—In one instance which came under the writer's observation, the patient, tet. 70, with di&eased heart, com- plained for some time of numbness and pricking at the tips of his fingers. Next they looked bluish, and the cuticle peeled ; then the sui-face of the skin black. But far more frequently it commences by a purple or black spot on one of the smaller toes; from which spot " the cuticle," says Pott, " is always found to be detached, and the skin under it to be of a dark-red colour." " In some few instances, there is little or no pain; but, in by far the majority, the patients feel great uneasiness through the whole foot or joint of the ankle, particularly in the night, even before these parts show any mark of distemper, or before there is any other than a small discoloured spot at the end of one of the little toes.' * Its progress in some cases is slow, in others rapid * Pott's Chirurgical Works, 8vo. Lend. 1771.