APPENDIX OF FOKMUL^. 811 R, Quinas disulphatis grana xxx.; mucilaginis acacise, aquje singulo- rum fluiduncias tres. This is a good form lohen we desire to cincho- nize a patient. In syphilis (see p. 219), in any inflammation whatever when strength is failing and irritability increasing spite of antiphlo- gistic measures, and in all inflammations, rheumatisms, ^c. of malarious origin (see p, 414), five grains of quinine may he given every two, three, or four hours till the ears ring. Also in certain stages of phthisis, cancer, 4'C., when rapidly advancing with great pain. See Surgeon Major Hare's Paper on Malarious Fever, Med. Times and Gazette, vol. ii. 1864. Also Squire. Glycerine 3ij. may be added. Parrish's Quinine Pills. R. Quiuse disulphatis gr. xx.; acidi sulphurici aromatici minima duodecim. Drop the acid upon the quinine, mixing with a spatula; seize the moment when the mass is of proper consistency and divide into four pills ; each of which will contain five grains of quinine, and will not be too large. Sulphate of quinine may also be made into pills, by adding one grain of glacial phosphoric acid, or a \ gr. of tartaric acid, to each grain of quinine. 4. Liquor Cinchonce. R. Liquoris cinchonag flavse Battley V(\xx.; aquse pimentse f^j. Misce, fiat haustus quater die sumendus. In atonic erysipelatous diseases.—A prescription of Dr. Farre's. One fluid drachm of Battley's solution is said to be equal to an ounce of the finest bark. The infusum cinchonas spissatum of the London Pharmacopceia, or the extractum liquidum of the British Pharmacopceia, may be used instead ; but we see no reason why the names of Battley and Farre, who devised these preparations, should be let drop. 5. Bark with Ammonia. R. Decocti cinchonas flavse f^viiss.; ammoniae sesquicarbonatis 3ss.; syrupi zinziberis f^ss. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta, bis vel ter die. 6. Bark with Liquor Potasses. R. Decocti cinchona flavse f^viiss.; liquoris potassse f3ij. ; tinc- turse cinchonas compositse f3ij. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta, bis vel ter die. 7. Bark with Guaiacum, R. Tincture guaiaci ammoniat^, tincturse humuli aa f3ss.; decocti cinchona lancifolise f^ij. Misce, fiat haustus, ter die sumendus. In chronic rheumatism, chronic rheumatic sclerotitis, 4'C. R. Tincturse guaiaci ammoniatse, tincturse cinchonse composite sin- gularum f^j. Misce. Dosis, f3ij. bis die e cyatho lactis. In chronic rheumatism or constipation with debility.