163 BURNS AND SCALDS. The bowels must be kept open by castor-oil or rhubarb ; and the diet be plain, but not too low. In the event of any inflammatory or congestive attack of the head or chest, purgatives and leeches or bleed- ing must be cautiously employed, according to circumstances. Jf there is any tenderness under the right hypochondrium, or vomiting, or other sign of irritation of the duodenum, the diet should be of the blandest description, and small doses of hyd. c. creta and henbane be ad- ministered. Treatment of the remaining Ulcers.—The ulcers resulting fi-om burns are often extremely intractable. The granulations are pale, flabby, and exuberant; they secrete pus profusely; and many months often elapse before they are healed. The cause of this disinclination to heal is not well understood; but one cause there is which may be easily detected and remedied, namely, too full a diet, which is often needlessly used on the plea of supporting the strength under the profuse discharge. " There can be no doubt," says Kentish, " that full diet and stimulants, during the suppurative stage, keep up irritation in the system, and cause the immense continued discharge by the exposed sur- faces of the wound."* And it is equally certain that many cases will rapidly get well when the diet is lowered and purgatives are adminis- tered. The binding down of the edges of the ulcer to the condensed tissue beneath is another cause of delay. There should be no hurry in removing the flrst dressings ; but when they are removed, the succeeding applications must be suited to the state of it. If the ulcer is irritable and painful, or hot and swelled, or seems inclined to spread by ulceration, or if small abscesses threaten to form under the skin, poultices, or water-dressing, or F. 121, Dover's powder at bed-time, and aperients should be resorted to. If sloughs are tardy in separating, the case must be treated like the sloughing ulcer. A very useful application in cases requiring gentle stimuli and complete occlusion of the air is a mixture of equal parts of balsam of Peru and olive oil, brushed smoothly over the surface with a soft brush every night and morning. It has the additional advantage of partly over- coming the foetid smell. When the irritable state is removed, a succession of mild stimulants and astringents will be advisable: especially the zinc lotion; chalk, bismuth, zinc, or calamine ointment; simple lint; and pressure with sheet lead or strips of plaster. When the discharge is very profuse, the sore should be constantly kept thinly covered with very finely-pow- dered chalk. Treatment of the Cicatrix.—The cicatrix of severe bu)-ns is very liable to become excessively hard, dense, and cartilaginous, and to con- tract in such a way as to occasion the most serious deformities. Thus, the eyelids or mouth may be rendered incapable of closing ; the chin may be fixed to the breast, or a limb be rigidly or immovably bent. * Second Essay on Burns, Newcastle, ISOO, p. 64.