WOUNDS OF AETERIES. 328 ought to vender unnecessary the proposal of dividing the tendons of refractory muscles, unless they intervene between the bone and its socket in such a way as to prevent replacement. If the dislocation is compound, and the bone cannot be replaced, or if it is much shattered, it may be dissected out. In these two dislocations, the astragalus is separated from the other tarsal bones, but preserves its connexions wit,h the tibia and fibula, so that they may be regarded merely as varieties of dislocation of the ankle-joint, in which the tibia and fibula carry the astragalus with them in their displacement. It may, however, be completely shot out from under the tibia, and lie under the skin of the outer side of the foot. And lastly, it may in the same way be dis- located backwards; projecting behind the ankle-joint, and pushing the tendo Achillis backwards. This displacement, if only partial, it will be extremely difficult to rectify, and if complete, it will most likely be impossible.* If under these circumstances the dislocation be com- pound, the bone may be dissected out. The same may be done even in simple dislocation if the use of the foot can be thereby improved. Besides these, the five anterior tarsal bones may be dislocated from the OS calcis and astragalus. The cuneiform bones may be dislocated upwards from the navicular; the metatarsal bones from the tarsal, and the toes from the metatarsal. In any of these cases, the proper posi- tion of the parts must be restored as much as possible by pressure and extension, and be preserved by bandages; but reduction will often be very difficult, if not impossible. CHAPTER VII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES. SECTION I.—WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. Symptoms.—An artery may be known to be wounded by the profuse spirting out of florid blood, per saltum; that is to say in jets, corre- sponding to the beats of the pulse, and indicating by their size that of the artery, or of the wound in it. Pathology.—The bleeding from wounded arteries must necessarily be often profuse and dangerous, because from the nature of their coats, they do not collapse as the veins do ; and because of the perpetual current of blood impelled by the heart. * For cases of the dislocation of the astragalus backwards, see a paper by Mr. B. Phillips, Med. Gaz., vol. xiv., p 596, and Fergusson's Practical Surgery. See also Mr. Cross's case of dislocation of astragalus reduced by dividing the tendo Achillis, quoted in Eanking, vol. ix., p. 140; Campbell de Morgan, B. Phillips, Lonsdale, and others. Lancet, 1849, vol. ii., p. 618. Heniy Lee's case, in which the os calcis and the other bones of the foot were dislocated from the astragalus with, the tibia, Lancet, 1852, vol. i., p. 313. Richard G-. H. Butcher, of Dublin, on Fractures near the Ankle Joint; Dublin, 1852 (objects to tenotomy as a means of facilitating reduction).