604 DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. at certain points there ai-e voluntary muscles,—the muscles of Wilson- and Guthrie, the levator ani, and accelerator urinai, ' The layer of organic muscle, the existence of which was inferred by" Hunter, and demonstrated by Kolliker, has been more minutely inves- tigated by Mr. Jabez Hogg and Mr. Hancock. According to the last- named gentleman, it appeals that the urethra is invested by a double layer of organic or unstriped muscular fibre ; one layer immediately surrounding the canal, the other external to the prostate and the cor- pus spongiosum urethrse; which muscular coats are continuous with those of the bladder. Hence not only can the canal be closed by spasm of the voluntary fibres which are in relation with its membranous por- tion, but any part of the canal may be closed by the layer of involun- tary fibres. Moreover, * it is well to bear in amind that violent vo- luntary efforts, as in straining to empty the bladder, tend to close the urethra by the ac- tion of the levator ani.f :hra, according to Mr. H. ihes ; its circumference un- leatus, '7 inch in the bul- lensions capable of being int in the erect posture is or layer of deep perinseal •3 of a circle 3'25 inches ; curve is sharper in thin In children, the greater elevation of the bladder in the pelvis produces a greater curve in the urethra. Varieties.—Retention of urine may arise from causes functional or organic. The functional causes may be, 1, want of power in the mus- cular coat of the bladder and urethra ; 2, spasm of the urethra, mixed in some cases with some amount of inflammatory swelling. The organic causes include permanent stricture, that is to say, obstruction of the canal by organic disease and contraction ;—cicatrices, the blocking up of the tube by stones or other foreign bodies coming down from the bladder, or introduced from without;—or by the presence of abscesses, or cancerous or other tumours;—or of fractured and displaced bones external to the urethra ; or by disease of the prostate gland. In the present section we shall speak of that form of retention of urine which arises from spasm of the urethra. * A very useful syphon, which can be fixed on to the end of the catheter, for the more couvenient flow of the urine. f Anatomy and Physiology of the Male Urethra, by Henry Hancock, F.R.C.S., Lond. 1852; Investigations of the Anatomy of the Urethra, &c., by Jabez Hogg, Pathological Trans., 1855.