445 SHORT AND LONG SIGHT. usually accompanied by symptoms that will sufficiently point out the hopeless nature of the disease. There is an interesting case of this kind related by Mr. Browne of Belfast, in the " Dublin Journal of Medical Science," for May, 1849, in which there was increasing amau- rosis, with complete paralysis of the motores oculi nerves; after death a tumour, nearly three drachms in weight, was found in one of the crura cerebri. For other cases of amaurosis arising from organic disease, especially if there be fixed pain in the head, palsy, or epilepsy, or idiocy, the best thing that the surgeon can do will be to prevent congestion in the head by occasional depletion, and counter-irritation; to maintain the secretions of the liver and bowels; to keep up the strength by a nutritious but not stimulating diet, and to guard the patient from mental and bodily excitement. SECTION XVII.—SHORT AND LONG SIGHT. I. Short Sight, or Myopia.—In this affection parallel rays of light are brought to a focus before they reach the retina; and this may be caused either by the refracting power of the eye being too great, or its antero-posterior axis too long. It is often hereditary ; but it is apt to be brought on in youth by too close attention to study, or by con- tinued working at small objects, as in engraving, watchmaking, &c. In such cases the ciliary muscle is brought constantly into play in the adaptation of vision, and thus the curves, both of the cornea and crystalline lens, become more convex. Sclero-choroiditis posterior, by elongating the optic axis, is a not unfrequent cause. Such cases are detected by the ophthalmoscope. It is probable that in all cases of decided myopia, there is a small white crescent at the outer side of the optic disc ; but when this white spot is irregular and extensive, and when there are little irregular patches of pigment sprinkled here and there, we conclude that the myopia is due to the disease in question. Treatment.—The proper treatment for the first form of myopia is to avoid over work on minute objects, and to neutralise the defect by carefully adjusted spectacles. When it is dependent on sclero-choroiditis posterior, and the disease is progressive, very caieful treatment is necessary. The eyes ought never to be emjiloyed for long at a time ; heat and congestion about the eye may be l elieved by the use of the eye douche; when there is considerable disease of the choroid, Mr. S. Wells recommends a prolonged course of small doses of bichloride of mercury, and the use of the artificial leech.* II. Presbyopia.—In presbyopia, owing to certain changes in the interior of the eye, probably iu the lens, the patient, though he can still see distant objects distinctly, finds his vision fail for near objects. " In pure presbyopia the far point is at a normal distance from the eye, parallel rays are united upon the retina, and neither concave nor convex glasses (even after the instillation of atropine) at all improve distant vision. The eye is neither myopic nor hypermetropic. There * On Impaired Vision, p. 73.