375 FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. outer table; especially by sabre-cuts descending perpendicularly; musket-shots, and blows with pokers and similar weapons. When there is reason to suspect this, a most careful examination should be made with the probe, and, if discovered, the trephine should be em- ployed to raise or remove any splinters that may compress or irritate the surface of the brain. 4. Fracture of the Base of the SkulI; may run in various directions, but most frequently through the petrous, squamous, basi-sphe- noid, and ali-sphenoid bones. The diagnosis will be founded — 1. On the nature of the in- jury ; for the patient has pro- bably pitched on his head and has a wound or bruise on the vertex, but no frac- ture there. 2. There will most probably be copious venous bleeding from one ear; the blood coming from the diploe of the bone, or from the petrosal or lateral sinuses, being permitted to well out through the tympanum by laceration of the membrana tympani. In this case, if the mouth and nostrils be closed, air will perhaps also bubble out through the external auditory meatus in expiration. 3. After bleeding has ceased, a most significant symptom is the draining away through the ear of the cerebro-spinal fluid from beneath the arachnoid. It is a dear fluid, hardly coagulable by heat, and containing much less albumen and saline matter than serum does. This indicates that the fracture passes through the internal auditory meatus, and has ruptured the tube of arachnoid, which accompanies the auditory and facial nerves into that meatus, and so allows the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Immense quantities of it may be discharged. In one case recorded by Hewett, the serous fluid seemed to come from the internal ear or mastoid cells or tympanum, there being no fissure found (though carefully looked for) on the inner surface of the skull." 4. Various symptoms may be noticed, indicating damage to the nerves that escape by the base of the skull. Thus extreme deafness points to the auditory ; paralysis of the muscles of the face, inability to close the eye tightly, and a dragging of the mouth to the opposite side, point to the facial nerve ; loss of sensibility in either half of the tongue, to the third division of the fifth ; loss of motion, to the ninth ; inability of swallow- ing, and slow or stertorous breathing, to the eighth; and thus the implication of these nerves shows the course of the fracture to be through their several foramina. 5. Bleeding from the nose or mouth, and great ecchymosis within the orbit, not a mere speck of blood * Fracture of the Inner Table of the Skull, St. Mary's Museum,