571 INGUINAL HERNIA. produce a radical cure of this kind of hernia, especially by measures calculated to obliterate the sac. Thus excision of the sac, and of the testicle with it;—ligature of the sac;—pi-essure by hard trusses; injection of iodine ; the use of caustics, so as to produce a slough and subsequent firm cicatrix ; the introduction of isinglass, blood, and goldbeaters' skin, have been practised with much danger and little suc- cess. At present there are operations, of established repute, which act by plugging up and closing the herniary apertures. Gerdys Operation.—.More than twenty years since, M. Gerdy pro- posed a method of pushing a fold of integument up as far as possible into the neck of the sac, securing it in this inverted or invaginated position by means of two sutures (both ends of a ligature being passed from within the invaginated skin), and then denuding the pouch of in- vaginated skin of its cuticle by means of liquor ammoniag, so that the surfaces of skin and peritonaeum thus opposed to each other respectively may adhere, and the neck of the sac be effectually plugged. This opera- tion was practised by Mr. Bransby Cooper with some benefit. For the herniary aperture in Mr. Cooper's patient was so large before the operation that the bowel could not be kept up by a truss; whereas, after the operation, a common truss enabled the patient to pursue a laborious occupation with safety and comfort.* Wutzer's Operation.—Professor Wiitzer of Bonn has performed this operation since 1838, and it was introduced into England by Mr. Spencer Wells in 1854. The essential parts of it consist in the in- vagination of a portion of the coverings of the hernia—including skin of the scrotum, fascia, and sac—which are introduced into the inguinal canal; in the use of a wooden plug which shall retain the invaginated tissues there, and which shall be of such a size as to fill the canal as nearly as possible; and in the use of an outward wooden pad, of corre- sponding size and shape to the plug, which shall be so applied, that by means of equable pressure the opposed surfaces of the invaginated portion of sac shall adhere, so that the neck of the sac shall be plugged up, and obliterated. The original instrument of Wiitzer consisted of a roundish plug, with cover to match. The subjoined drawing represents an instrument enlarged and improved by Professor Rothmund of Munich, and subse- quently by Mr. Spencer Wells. Mr. Redfern Davies has since suggested that the plug should be made to expand like a glove-stretcher, so that it may fill out the internal ring. The structure and application of it will be readily learned from the following description of the opei-a- tion.f The patient's bowels should have been well cleansed by castor-oil a day or two previously, and the rectum be emptied by enema on the morning of the operation. The bladder should be empty, the hair of the * Bransby Cooper, Guy's Hosp. Rep.. Oct. 1840. t See Spencer Wells, first paper, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii., 1854; also his Lecture in Med. Times, 1858, vol. i., p. 79; and paper in the Dublin Quar. Journ., Med. Sc, May, 1858. Redfern Davies, Med. Times, 6th August, 1859.