APPENDIX OF FOKMUL^. 820 Remedies which, persuade Sleep. Orangeflower water is decidedly ranked by the French amongst the calmants ; and half a wine-glassful will often coax a patient to sleep ; so will valerian, musk, and castor ; amongst wines the Burgundy; amongst beers Guinness's Dublin stout; last, not least, the tincture of sumbul in doses of two drachms, given in a little orangeflower water. § II. Aperients. 33. Calomel R. Calomelanos, grana quinque; antimonii tartarizati grani |; fiat pilula. R. Calomelanos grana quatuor; extracti colocynthidi compositi grana sex ; fiant pilulse duse. 34. Black Draught. R. Sennfe foliorum 3vj.; zinziberis concisi 3ss. ; extracti glycyr- rhizse 3ij.; potassse carbonatis 3ss.; aquje ferventis f^ix. Post boras tres cola, et adde spiritiis ammonias aromatici f3ij.; magnesias sul- phatis ^ ; (vel potassaj tartratis ^j.) tincturse sennse, tincturse cardamomi compositse aa i^ss. Dosis f^jss.* Red Draught. R. Magnesise sulphatis 3ij.—iv.; syrupi zinziberis, tincturae carda- momi compositse, singulorum f3j.; infusi rosse compositi f3x. Misce. 35. Haustus Magnesice Sulphatis Acidus. R. Magnesise sulphatis 3.].—3iv.; syrupi aurantii f3ij,; acidi sul- phurici diluti TY^^x.; aquse f^j. Misce, fiat haustus. To this draught may be added one grain of sulphate of zinc, or of sulphate of iron, or two grains of quinine, or fifteen minims of tincture of nux vomica, in cases of debility, 36. Haustus Magnesice Albus. R. Magnesise sulphatis 3ij,; magnesise carbonatis ^j.; syrupi zinzi- beris f3jss.; aquse menthse viridis f3xj. Misce, fiat haustus. Thisdraught will often be retained by the stomach when almost every other is rejected. 37. Cordial Aperient Draught. R. Tincturse sennse f^ss.; tinctur£E rhei f^ss. Misce. 38. Rhubarb Draughts and Powders. R. Pulveris rhei, semiscrnpulum; sodse bicarbonatis, scrupulum ; sacchari albi, scrupulum ; olei lavandulae guttas quinque. Misce, fiat pulvis, e cochlearibus duobus aquai sumendus. This is the most perfect combination of rhubarb. The lavender hides its flavour completely. * This draught is greatly improved, both in flavour and eflacacy, by the addition of a fev? carraway seeds and cloves, one ounce of buclcthorn juice, one of tincture of jalap, and six of moist sugar.