GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 144 hold of a leaden ball and remove it with facility. If, howevei-, the ball is lodged in bone, much difficulty is frequently experienced, and great tact required to get hold of it. A small channel may in some cases be made in the bone with a gouge, and the ball may generally then be removed with tolerable ease by means of one of Bell's sharp- pointed tooth elevators. SECTION III.—COLLAPSE FROM GUN-SHOT WOUNDS, Collapse or Shock is the first constitutional effect of a gun-shot injury. It follows immediately or soon after the infliction of the wound, and is present to a greater or less extent in nearly every case. It is more intense in proportion to the severity of the injury, and according to the part ot the body which has suffei'ed; but even com- paratively slight wounds are often followed by a very great amount of collapse. Gun-shot injuries of the thorax and abdomen are always followed by severe collapse. The severity of wounds in these localities, when the cavity is opened, or the viscera wounded, is sufficient to account for this ; but in instances whei e the ball has not penetrated the abdomen or thorax, but merely traversed their walls, there is still usually some shock, and often very much. The cause is probably partly the fear which men have of the result of wounds of either of the large cavities, believing that if a ball strikes the thorax or abdomen the case is necessarily fatal. Another reason has been attributed for the collapse which is so universal, which is- this. Men are generally wounded whilst under fire, while the nervous energies are in a state of extreme tension. They are suddenly struck down, and rendered hors de combat, and depression rapidly follows in proportion to the extent of the previous excitement, and thus we may meet with great collapse following even small injuries. Mr. Matthew adduces, as proof of this doctrine, the fact that men were occasionally received for treatment in the Crimean hospitals before the excitement had subsided; and they seemed to bear the operations without chloroform well, and in some instances begged that it might not be given. The depressed condition may come on imme- diately after an injury, or, more rarely, it may not take place until some hours afterwards, a difference depending on the peculiar mental constitution and nervous development of the patient. After severe gun-shot injuries patients may die from shock only. No large amount of blood may have been lost, or there may have been no destruction of parts which could cause rapid death, and yet the patient never rallies from the state of collapse, and speedily sinks. During the Eussian war as many as 160 wounded men among the regiments of the line died within twenty-four hours, and 149 more within forty-eight hours after the infliction of their wounds, a very large majority of these deaths being due to this cause.