493 CARIES OF TEETH. The wisdom teeth, especially in the lower jaw, are extremely liable to be misplaced, growing directly outwards or inwards, and producing ulceration of the cheek or tongue; or projecting forwards against the peighbouring molar, or backwards into the coronoid process, or even being contained within a tumour in the substance of that process. Tumours of either jaw may likewise arise from mal-deveiopment of either of the other teeth. III. Fracture and Dislocation op Teeth.—If a portion of a tooth is broken off', without exposing the pulp cavity, the exposed surface should be filed smooth, and then no inconvenience will pro- bably follow. If it is snapped off' at the neck, and the pulp cavity is exposed and very painful, it should be touched with lunar caustic, and the mouth be frequently bathed with strong poppy decoction; and when pain and tenderness have ceased, an ailificial tooth may be fastened by a pivot to the stump. If, however, the loot of the tooth is loosened by inflamination, it had better be extracted at once. If a tooth is loosened by a blow, it should be fastened by silk to its neighbours. If a tooth is entirely di'iven out, it should be replaced as soon as bleed- ing has ceased, and be fastened in by silk; no food should be allowed that requires mastication, and inflammation should be combated by re- peatedly leeching the gum. IV. Caries of Teeth signifies a successive softening and decay, gradually spreading till it reaches the central cavity of the tooth, which from that time is subject to fits of toothache. It depends on original imperfect foi'mation of the enamel and bone, especially in scrofulous and ill-nui'tured persons, and may further be promoted by any circumstances which lower the general health. It is very fre- quently a consequence of pregnancy, and of nursing; it may follow any serious illness, or loss of strength, or the abuse of mercury. It is rank nonsense to allege that it may be caused by steel or acids used as tonics, or by any abrasion or loss of enamel. It is as truly a con- stitutional disease as phthisis or scrofula. The author has seen the four upper incisors quite rotten in a scrofulous child at thirteen months. Treatment.—The whole of the decayed portion should be I'emoved, and the cavity be filled up with gold, or an amalgam of silver and mercury, or of silica and gutta percha. If the decay has laid open the pulp cavity, it may be necessary first to use some applications, under which the pulp may heal up and close over by bone, or at least may get into such a state as to yield no discharge ; for it is of no use to stop a tooth if there is any secretion of purulent matter from the pulp underneath. The best application seems to be creosote, inserted into the pulp cavity on a little bit of cottonwool, and over that another bit of cotton w^ool dipped in mastic varnish, F. 183. This will require to be changed once in two or three days, till all discharge ceases. But if the pulp continue irritable, tender, or bleeding, it will be necessary to deaden it with a little fragment of nitrate of silver, or to destroy it by a minute quantity of arsenic. After this, which is not