DISSECTION WOUNDS. 174 V. Vegetable Parasites. —We do not attempt to give an ac- count of entozoa and parasites generally, but solely of the surgical treatment which some of them render necessary. We therefore omit all account of lice, of intestinal worms, and of the Trichiniasis, which has created so great a panic, and which has been so ably described by Dr. Althaus.* Also, amongst A'egetable parasites, we omit any account of such as cause ringworm, baldness, pityriasis, &c., and refer only to the Fungus Disease of India, described by Professor H. V. Carter, of Bombay.! In this curious disease, it appears that the sporules of some fungus find their way beneath the cuticle of the foot, then increase, and form tumours, then abscesses, and at last go on and invade the bones, which they excavate and fill with rounded black masses of fungus. The disease affects natives of India only, and seems to be irremediable except by amputation. CHAPTER YIII. POISONS CONTAINED IN DEAD HUMAN BODIES, POST-MORTEM AND DISSECTION WOUNDS. During the decomposition of animal matter, a number of complex substances are foi-med, which have a most deleterious effect if intro- duced into the blood of living animals. If inhaled, and especiallv if inhaled continuously, as they used to be in the dissecting-room, they are capable of pi-oducing sickness, dyspepsia, diarrhoea, nauseous taste in the mouth, and other symptoms indicative of the presence of deleterious miasmata in the blood. But these poisons are usually quickly elimi- nated, and their effects removed by fresh air, apeiients, and stimu- lants. Sometimes also by inhalation, J but more particularly, if inocu- lated, they produce most disastrous efi'ects in the form of inflammation of the lymphatics (See Part III. Chap. IV.), and of diffuse cellular inflammation, with pyaemia. We have already spoken of the latter maladies, generally; now we propose to describe them more particu- larly as they occur from dissection wounds, remarking that the bodies of persons who have died from disorders of an erysipelatous nature, or from puerperal fever, are pre-eminently contagious, and much more dangerous than bodies usually are from mere putridity. The common * Med. Times and Gazette, 1864, vol. i. f On Mycetoma or Fungus Disease. Trans. Med. and Phys. Soc. Bombay. No. vii., 1862. + Travers gives two cases. A Mrs. Clifton died of diffused cellular inflam- mation following a prick. Two of her attendants became 111 from the contact and effluvium of the discharge, although neither had any wound through which a poison might be inoculated. One of them suffered from acute fascial inflam- mation of the arm; the other from low fever, and abscess in the axilla. The latter was engaged in unfolding some sheets from which a most noisome smell proceeded, when she was all at once seized with sickness and faintness, and excruciating pain in the axilla.— Constitutional Irritation, p. 373, 3rd ed. See also Tyrrel's edition of Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, vol. iii.; Nunneley on Erysi- pelas ; Copland's Diet. p. 304.