635 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEIS. part of the mucous lining of the urinary passages, or from an abscess in some contiguous part which has burst into them. It generally falls to the bottom of the vessel containing the urine, " forming a dense homo- geneous layer of a pale-greenish cream colour, seldom hanging in ropes in the fluid, like mucus, and becoming, by agitation, completely diffused through it. The addition of acetic acid neither prevents this ditFusion, nor dissolves the deposit. If a portion of the deposited pus be agitated with an equal quantity of liquid potassse, it forms a dense, ti-anslucent, gelatinous mass. On decanting some urine from the deposited pus, the presence of albumen may be detected by heat and nitric acid."* The pus globules may be recognised under the microscope, and the addition of acetic acid reveals the characteristic nuclei. 1. When pus comes from the uriniferous tubes, the kidney being in a confirmed state of suppurative disorganization, it may sometimes be found moulded in the form of the tubules; but at all events it may be presumed to come from this source, if constantly present in the urine, and equably diffused through it, and if there are the other signs of kidney disease to be pre- sently described. 2. Pus from the bladder will probably be mixed with large quantities of mucus, constituting muco-purulent matter. 3. Pus from an abscess will be variable in quantity, and not equally diffused. We must here remark that a few pus globules are often mixed with epithelial debris without the urine being albuminous. 7. The Echinococcus occasionally infests the kidney, producing severe disturbance. Small cysts, containing the animals, with their charac- teristic booklets, p. 173, may be found in the urine, as in a case lately published by Dr. Herbert Barker. Turpentine in diuretic doses is the best means of dislodging them. II. Acute Inflammation of the Kidney {Acute Nephritis) is sometimes caused by blows on the loins, or by the irritation of renal calculi, but is very rarely an idiopathic primary affection. The symp- toms are, burning pain and tenderness in the loins ; colicky pains in the belly; the urine scanty and high coloured, and the bladder irri- table, so that there are constant attempts at micturition; fever and great thirst, and vomiting. The remedies are—cupping, leeches, and castor-oil—repeated doses of calomel, opium, and antimony, with colchicum if the habit is gouty ; warm baths, or warm fomentations to the loins, and barley-water and other demulcent drinks. III. Chronic Disease of the Kidneys, when it comes under the surgeon's care, is generally a consequence of long-standing disease of the urethra or bladder. When the bladder has been subject to fre- quent distension through stricture or enlarged prostate, and its mucous membrane inflamed, the ureters are liable to become dis- tended and converted as it were into subsidiary receptacles for the urine, so that all the violent strainings to evacuate it tell upon the kidneys; and these become diseased, through the mechanical irrita- tion, and the extension of inflammation from the bladder. The pelvis and infundibula undergo suppurative inflammation—a state described * Gelding Bird on Urinary Deposits, 2nd edit., p. 273.