ACUTE TETANUS. 9 each been known to cause death suddenly. If nourishment cannot be swallowed, it should be given per rectum. (See Nutrient Enemata, Soups, ^c. in the Appendix.^ In all cases an abundant supply of nourishment should be given, with wine or brandy. In some cases recovery has followed the use of spirits in large quantities.* It may seem expedient to add quinine, or muri- ated tincture of iron, if the debility be very marked. When considering our third head of treatment, we must remember that it is not because a patient gets well after any given remedy that we are to pronounce him cured by it. " Tetanus," says Mr. Poland, " runs a certain course: it has its period of accession, its height and intense activity, and its gradual decline; it often kills before it reaches its active point, and often kills by exhaustion during its decline. No- thing seems to check its regular course. All we can do is to enable our patient to weather out the storm by giving him as much strength as possible."t Yet it cannot be wondered at that surgeons have again and again tried those sedatives which seem likely to be of service. Cold is said to have been of service to animals affected with tetanus ; and a soldier was once most unexpectedly cured after exposure all night in sevei-e weather. Cold was applied to the spine by Dr. Todd by means of bladders, or ox-gullets filled with ice. Ice to the spine is also proposed by Dr. Chapman; but further experience is wanted. Warm baths, or vapour baths, seem rational remedies, yet are not proved to have done any service. Opium has appeared of most undoubted efficacy in some instances, probably those attended with a painful wound, and weakness. When it produces good effects, they are soon manifest. It may be given in large doses, in the form of enema or suppository ; but it must be con- fessed that in most cases it is useless or inert. Chloroform.—This seems a promising i-emedy, and in several cases has been of real service; in others, on the contrary, either it has soon lost its power of mitigating the spasms, or else it has nauseated, or else, although the spasms have been subdued, the patient has died, from exhaustion, or from some inscrutable altei'ation in the nervous centres. J The dose should be small, and continuous. The Indian Hemp has been employed with very good effects, by Dr. O'Shaughnessy and others at Calcutta, and by several practitioners in this country (F. 29). The woorara or vcooraK poison, which paralyses the motor nerves, and acts as an antagonist to strychnia, was proposed many years ago by Mr. Waterton> the naturalist—a proposition supported by experiments * See some observations by Dr. Todd, quoted in Ranking, x. 33. f Alfred Poland, Report of seventy-two cases of tetanus, occurring in Guy's Hospital since 1«25, Guy's Hosp. Rep. vol. iii. 1857. X See two cases by Dr. Cotton of Lynn, Prov. Med. Jour. May 15, 1850; fatal, though sufferings relieved by ether and chloroform inhaled; case by Mr.Slonian of Farnham, quoted in Banking's Abstract, x. 36; chloroform soon lost influ- ence ; patient recovered under calomel and morphine. See Anstie on Stimu- lants, Lond. 1864.