STRANGULATED HERNIA. 557 firmly embrace the hernia, and prevent any additional protrusion. The patient should avoid all violent exertion or excess in diet, and should never let his bowels be confined. 2. Radical cure.—It has occasionally happened, after confinement to bed for several weeks with fever or some other emaciating ailment, that a hernia, irreducible before, has been replaced with ease, owing to an absorption of the fat of the omentum or mesentery, and relaxation of the abdominal apertures. The same result has also in some cases been effected by art—by keeping the patient in the recumbent posture and on very low diet for six weeks or two months, and by the frequent use of glysters and laxatives, and at the same time by keeping up a constant equable pressure on the tumour by means of a bag truss made to lace over it. This plan is very uncertain as to its results, and will be effectually defeated if there are any adhesions ; and, besides, there are not many patients who will submit to it. It will be more likely to succeed if the hernia is omental, than if it contains intestine. But several instances are known, in which, after the contents of old hernise had been replaced, they produced so much irritation in the abdomen, that the patients wei-e glad to compound for their life by keeping the hernia. Any surgical operation with the view of opening the sac, dividing adhesions, and returning the parts into the abdomen, is scarcely justifiable, as it would be exposing life to too great a hazard.* SECTION IV.—STRANGULATED HERNIA. Definition.—Hernia is said to be strangulated, when it is con- stricted in such a way, that the contents of the protruded bowel cannot be propelled onwards, and the return of its venous blood is impeded. The causes of strangulation may be,—1. A sudden protrusion of bowel or omentum through a narrow aperture, in consequence of violent ex- ertion ;—a thing not unlikely to happen if a truss has been worn for some time, and then is carelessly left off. 2. Distension of the pro- truded intestines by flatus or faeces, or tumefaction and congestion of the omentum or mesentery. 3. Swelling of the neck of the sac may be a cause; and spasm was formerly considered so. The seat of stricture is either the thickened portion of peritonseum which forms the neck of the sac, or tendinous bands external to it, at the internal or deep hernial apertui e. Less frequently, it is lower down in the canal, and occasionally in large scrotal ruptures at the pillars of the superficial ring. In some cases the bowel has been constricted by membranous bands, or by fissures in the omentum within the sac itself, or by an old neck of the sac, see p. 552. But it must be recol- lected that the membranous aperture, through which the displaced bowel passes, does not exert any active force upon it;—on the conti'ary, * See B. Cooper, quoted in Eanking, vol. xvi. A case in which Velpeau practised subcutaneous incisions for the relief of an irreducible hernia is related in Bull. Gen. de The'rap., 15th and 30th Aug. 1840.