DISEASES OF THE IRIS. 419 piece of blackened card, concave glasses are often of service. One case is recorded which was said to be cured by ergot of rye, in scruple doses four times a day.* Generally speaking, in uncomplicated cases, the prognosis is good if a tonic plan of treatment be adopted. Mr. R. Taylor has seen good results follow a succession of blisters to the temple or brow, and the application of stimulating vapour—as of ammonia— to the eye. He also believes that nux vomica is of service. V. Cysts filled with watery fluid, and growing from some part of the iris, may be mistaken for cysticercus, or dislocated lens ; the chief distinction being that they have a fixed attachment. A cyst may be congenital, or may grow after some injury. If allowed to remain and increase, the whole eyeball becomes disorganized. The usual treatment recommended is, to incise the cornea, draw out the cyst, and cut it off. But this is a most severe operation, and one likely to be followed by the loss of vision ; whereas Mr. Walton gives cases which show that if the cyst be punctured freely with an iris knife, it will collapse and give no further trouble. The operation may, however, require to be repeated. VI. Artificial Pupil.—By this is meant an alteration in the shape or position of the pupil, or a new aperture in the iris, effected by surgical oj)eration, for the purpose of allowing the rays of light to reach the retina. The cases in which such an operation may be expedient, are, 1, partial opacity of the cornea; 2, complete or partial closure of the pupil by lymph; 3, closure of the pupil from prolapse of the iris, or adhesion of it to the cornea, in consequence of ulceration or of wound of the cornea, which, in this case, is more or less opaque ; 4, closure of the pupil, after the crystalline lens has been extracted or absorbed. Respecting the various/or/?is of operation which have been proposed for these and for the other combinations of circum- stances that may be met with, we must content ourselves with detailing such general principles as every surgeon ought to be acquainted with; referring those who wish for fuller information to the works of Bowman, Wilde of Dublin, Mackenzie, Guthrie, Wharton Jones, Tyrrell, and Walton. Such particulars as we give are gathered chiefly from the "Operative Ophthalmic Surgery" of the last-named gentle- man. 1. There is the operation by incision {coretomia), which is especially available when the pupil is closed, after the re- moval of the lens, and when the cornea is clear, and the iris tolerably healthy in structure, so that it is capable of retract- ing and forming a I'oundish pupillary aperture, after incision. The instrument employed is the iris knife, a lancet-shaped tnife of various dimensions, according to the size of the aper- ture required. This is carried through the cornea, near its margin, across the anterior chamber, and thrust up to its shoulder into the iris. * L'Experieuce, Sept. 1839.