FEACTURES OF THE FOEEARM. 270 wrist. Both splints should be wide enough, and should be well padded along their middle, so that they may prevent the bones from being pressed together. The hand should be kept in a line with the forearm. The cure is generally complete in a month or six weeks. Fracture of the lower extremity of the Badiiis, from half an inch to an inch above the wrist, is now commonly called Cones's fracture, horn. the name of the eminent surgeon who first accurately described it. It deserves careful study from its liability to be mistaken for dislocation. The carpal extremity of the bone is usually broken off either obliquely or transversely, and the fragment is drawn backwards and outwards by the extensors of the thumb and supinator longus. Of course the * carpus and metacarpus go along with it. Thus, if the back of the forearm be looked at, there is seen to be an apparent swelling, formed by the carpus and lower fragment; and immediately above this a well-marked sulcus. On the palmar side is a more extensive but less prominent swelling, which seems as if caused by the tlexor tendons being thrown forward: this swelling extends about one-tliird up the forearm, and terminates below at the anterior annular ligaments of the wrist. The extremity of the ulna is seen projecting towards the palm and inner side of the limb; sometimes it is even dislocated forwards. The chief points of distinction between this injury and dislocjition, are the facility with which all deformity is removed by grasping the hand and making exten- sion ; the return of deformity on ceasing the exten- sion ; and the position of the styloid process of the radius, which moves with the hand if the case be fracture, but not if it be dislocation. Other varieties of fracture at this part are, 1. Ob- lique fracture of the posterior margin of the articular surface of the radius, with partial dislocation of the hand backwards : 2. Fracture of the lower end of the radius, with displacement forwards: 3. Fracture of both radius and ulna, which may be recognised by attention to the symptoms presented. * This cut is copied from Dr. Smith's work on Fractures, f Vertical fracture of lower extremity of radius. Fracture also of styloid process of ulna, with ligamentous union. From a preparation of the late Mr. Wilmott, of St. Mary's Hospital.