44 MODIFIED INFLAMMATION. painful, it is a sign that they stimulate too highly, and may thus bring- on an attack of acute inflammation. If it be a mucous membrane, stimulating and astringent remedies may be tried. Counter-irritants are more useful in chronic inflammation than in the acute, especially those which establish a permanent suppuratiA^e dischai-ge. SECTION X.—MODIFIED INFLAMMATION. I. In the two sections foregoing, we have described the treatment of inflammation in general. Many of the modifications have been enu- merated at p. 35, and will be found by refei'ence to the Index. Here we may allude shortly to II. Outward Causes of Modified Inflammation.—We also showed, at p. 33, that some of the causes of inflammation are outward, and that others reside in the patients themselves. Of the outward causes, those which interest the surgeon will be discussed in the next part of our vfovk ; in which there will be described the various modi- fications of inflammation ensuing on cuts, blows, gun-shot wounds, heat, cold, and poisons of vai'ious kinds. III. Inward Causes.—The inward causes consist in morbid states of the patient's blood. Under the head of scrofula and carbuncle will be noticed some of the modifications of inflammation arising in this way. It may not be out of place here to notice one or two others. 1. Gout.—It is out of our province to describe gout, yet, amongst the maladies commonly called surgical, are many distinctly gouty ; such as severe inflammations of the eye and of the testis, severe eruptions of the skin, and irritable states of the kidneys, bladder, and urethra. The ohief marks that any acute or chronic attack is of a gouty nature are, that it pi obably arises quite suddenly; yet that the patient, if cross- questioned, admits that he has not been quite well for some time; that possibly an aching in the great toe, or spot of psoriasis on the skin, or that some very anomalous symptom, cough, dyspepsia, or hypochon- driasis, has existed for some time, and has gone ofFjust before some more important part has sufFei'ed. The patient is probably either too florid, and has been living too well, thus producing what the writer calls high gout, or, on the contrary, has been exhausted by flitigue or anxiety, thus producing what we call low gout. The bowels are probably torpid ; the urine either very pale and copious, or scanty and full of lithates: gout probably also exists in the patient's family. The treatment of an acute attack will consist in active purgation, with calomel, colchicum, and alkaline aperients, F. 61, 71, with warm baths, low diet, and saline draughts. In a chronic attack, the more cautious use of the same means, followed by bitter infusions with alkalis, and alteratives, F. 72. Intense pain, and utter loss of function, followed by complete recovery, ai'e characteristics of gouty inflammation. 2. Rheumatic Inflammation. — This, if acute, may usually be known by the intense aching aggravated by warmth, the profuse per-