181 HYDROPHOBIA. ing; in others, on the contrary, the wound has thoroughly infiamed, and has broken into suppuration afresh, although healed long before. In some instances these premonitory symptoms have not appeared at all, or have been so slight as to pass unheeded: in a few instances they have not appeared till after the accession of the genuine hydrophobic symptoms ; but in general they ai-e observed from two to five days previously to the actual symptoms of hydrophobia. Of these, the first is a vague feeling of uneasiness and anxiety. The patient finds himself generally unwell ; his mind is irritable, and his countenance gloomy; he experiences a succession of chills and Hushes with transient headache; the appetite fails: there is frequently vomiting, and sometimes a well-marked accession of fever. Next, the sufferer complains of stiffness of the neck and soreness of the throat, with severe spasmodic pains at the epigastrium ; the respiration also is embarrassed, and frequently interrupted by sighing. But these symptoms are in most cases attributed to cold, and their real nature is not suspected for a day or two, till, on a sudden, on attempting to drink, the patient is seized v^ith a fit of suffocating spasm, and mani- fests extreme horror at the sight of fluids. The most prominent symptoms that henceforth present themselves, are three, viz., difficulty of bieathing and swallowing, extreme irrita- bility of the body, and peculiar disorder of the mind. (a.) The difficulty of breathing and swalio'mng depends on spasm of the muscles of the pharynx and larynx. Sometimes the patient can swallow neither solids nor liquids, but more frequently the disability extends to liquids only; because they i-equire a greater exertion of these muscles, and are consequently more liable to excite spasms. It is this circumstance that causes the aversion to fluids, and the alarm at the sight of them, which so generally characterise the disease. At first the spasms are excited only by attempts to swallow fluids ; then they are brought on by the sight or thought of them ; or by the mo- tions of spontaneous deglutition; but as the malady advances, they recur in frequent paroxysms—sometimes spontaneously, sometimes excited by the slightest noise or touch. When the paroxysms have become fully developed, they cause the most frightful struggles for breath. All the muscles are convulsed, the face is black and turgid, and the eyeballs protrude from their sockets. They may come on either during inspiration or expiration, but more frequently the latter; the patient struggling most violently to expel the air that is confined in his chest through the closure of the larynx. In this disease, as in tetanus, the fatal termination may ensue from suffocation in the middle of a paroxysm, although it more frequently happens during an interval, from exhaustion. (6.) Next to the spasm, the astonishing irritability of the surface of the body is the prominent symptom of hydrophobia. The slightest impressions on the senses affect the sufferer most intensely. A look, or a sound; the opening and shutting of the door of his apartment; the motions of his attendants; the reflection of light from a mirror ; the