476 NASAL POLYPUS. effort of nature ; a good purgative, F. 33, should be administered, the liver, bowels, and kidneys be thoroughly cleared, and the diet regu- lated ; if the bleeding continues, the sulphuric acid, F. 24, may be given, to which sulphate of magnesia may be added if the bowels re- quire it, and quinine or steel under other circumstances. 2. But the hsemorrhage requires to be stopped at once, either if it have conti- nued so long that the patient will be injuriously weakened,—or if it arise from injury,—or if it be a passive haemorrhage depending on visceral disease or general cachexy. If an upright posture, a bladder of ice applied to the forehead or a piece of cold metal to the back, with a draught of iced water or lemonade, and compression of the nostril, do not stop it, the patient may snuff up powdered gum, or gall-nuts, or powdered matico; and, these failing, the nostrils must be gently- plugged with lint. In very urgent cases, the posterior orifice of the nostril must be plugged also. This is easily done by passing a bougie, with a long piece of silk fastened to its end, through the nostril into the pharynx. The end of the silk in the pharynx is then brought through the mouth with a pair of forceps, and a piece of soft sponge, less than an inch in diameter, is tied to it. Then by pulling the silk back through the nose, the sponge is drawn into the posterior opening of the nostril. The plugs of coagula, in severe cases, should not be dis- turbed for three days. Local treatment being provided for, the case must be treated consti- tutionally. If there is great fever and vascular excitement, the nitrate of potash, F. 58, or tartar emetic, F. 68, may be of use; in cases in which the liver is deranged, the nitromuriatic acid and dandelion, F. 22 ; in cases in which the blood seems deficient in coagulability, alum,'F. 187, sesquichloride of iron, gallic acid, F. 186, or turpen- tine, F. 74. , . , . Ill Nasal Polypus.—1. The common gelatinous polypus is a tumour of the consistence of jelly, pear-shaped, yellowish, slightly streaked with blood-vessels, attached by a narrow neck to the mucous membrane. The patient has a constant feeling of stuffing and cold in