162 BUENS AND SCALDS. vomiting and purging. Mr. Murray Humphrey has observed ulceration of the lower part of the oesophagus. See page 34. Treatment.—The treatment of burns in their early stage has been a matter of great dispute. Some eminent sui'geons* have advocated ice or other cooling applications; others, the use of turpentine and other stimulants, which latter plan of treatment was advocated by Mr. Kentish, of Newcastle, at the beginning of the present century. The following, however, seem to be the principles of treatment de- ducible from the conflicting theories and practices which have been pro- posed, viz. :—1st, that the first applications should be of a mildly- stimulating nature; 2ndly, that after the first two or three days they should be soothing; till, 3rdly, slight astringents may be applied to expedite the healing; and, 4thly, that the part should throughout be most carefully preserved from the atmospheric air and from cold. If these principles are held in view, the surgeon will have no difficulty in finding appropriate remedies. Local Treatment of minor cases.—The vesications may, if tense, be pricked with a needle, and the whole part be covered with lint soaked in Carron oil; that is, a liniment of equal parts of oil and lime-water, and then be wrapped in soft cotton wool. After the first two days poppy lotion, or the water-dressing, F. 121, may be applied on lint covered with oil-silk; or a poultice of bread and water, till suppu- ration is established ; the chalk ointment, or zinc lotion, may be applied afterwards till the cure is complete. The part should be kept thickly wrapped in cotton wool during the whole period, to preserve it from the air and from cold and mjury. Of severe cases.—When a burn is severe or extensive enough to cause danger to life, Kentish's plan of first bathing the burnt parts with tepid turpentine, then with all possible expedition applying a liniment composed of ung. resina; ^j.; ol. terebinth ^ss., thickly spread on lint, and lastly, wrapping them up warmly in cotton or flannel, seems to be the most judicious. These di'essings should be allowed to remain as long as possible, and should not be removed unless there is a profuse discharge or bad smell from the wound. Great care should be taken, when the wound is first examined, not to strip off the cuticle, whilst taking off the patient's clothes. Constitutional Treatment.—If there is an urgent degree of collapse (see Parti., Chapter I.), brandy and beef-tea must be given. If there be much pain it should be quelled by opium. Children are commonly said not to bear opium well, but this is a vulgar error; they bear it well if there is adequate reason. The writer has administered TY\,x. of Battley's sedative, in divided doses every night for a fortnight to a child of three years old, who had been badly burned, besides putting her daily under chloroform while the wound was dressed. If the child is out of pain, or drowsy, of course there is no need for opium ; and in all cases it should be given in the smallest doses that will suffice. * Earle's Lectures on Burns, Lond. 1832.