HEMORRHOIDS. 593 Local Treatment.—Having by the general treatment provided as far as possible against the original causes of the malady, it is the sur- geon's duty to use such local measures as shall tend to restore the part to a healthy condition; amongst which we shall mention, 1. perfect cleanliness. The anus should be well washed with soap and water after each motion; and if the piles are internal, and protrude during evacuations, they should be washed before they are returned. 2. Astringents.—The zinc lotion, F. 117; or iron lotion, which is particularly recommended by Mr. Vincent, F. 128 ; or lotions of alum or tannin, of either of which a drachm or two may be injected into the anus after each motion,,and be allowed to remain; the gall ointment, with or without lead, F. 162, and creosote ointment—are often of benefit. Dr. Burne recommends an ointment composed of pulv. hellebori nigri 3j. adipis 'l^., which he says never fails of affording great relief, although exceedingly painful for a time. An ointment of a drachm of black oxide of mercury to an ounce of lard has also leceived high recommendations. 3. Pressure by means of a bougie introduced occasionally, or a firm pad of flannel, covered with oiled silk ; or a pad of smooth wood or of ivory, made to bear up well against the anus by means of a stout peri- nseal or T bandage (see Bandages), or by means of a spring like that of a truss, is often of service. There is an instrument consisting of a short egg-shaped ivory bougie, which is introduced into the anus, and which is attached by a slender neck to an ivory pad ; so that pi-es sure is thus made both internally and externally: this may be useful" in cases of internal piles with relaxed mucous membrane and tendency to prolapse, when no measure for removing the piles is thought advisable. 4. Nitric Acid.—All the above measures are preventive or palliative, and if they do not succeed, it is better to adopt some radical remedy. The first in order is the nitric acid ; a most safe, speedy, and effec- tual remedy in the proper case, first introduced by Dr. Houston of Dublin. It is adapted for destroying a diseased surface—not solid tumours—but any ''patch of tender, tumid, and bleeding surface of mucous membrane which is the source of irritation and haemorrhage. The operation is performed as follows:—The bowels having been just previously cleared, the patient must be told to protrude the piles; and if he cannot do it easily, he should sit over a vessel of warm water, or have an enema of warm water. The diseased surface is to be wiped with lint; and a portion of it, the size of sixpence, to be deliberately dabbed with a smooth wooden stick dipped into the concentrated acid. When this has taken effect, any superfluous acid is to be mopped up, lard is to be applied copiously, in order to prevent the caustic being too widely diffused, and the parts are then to be returned within the sphincter. The patient should go to bed, and the bowels be kept quiet—if necessary by opium—for forty-eight hours; and when the slough caused by the acid separates, the surface generally cicatrizes speedily, and leaves the D 2 Q