AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 774 of the assistant or by the retractor, a piece of linen with a longitudinal slit in it. The saw must be used to divide the bone: it should be held perpendicularly or nearly so: it should be used very lightly, and the last few strokes should be excessively short and gentle, that the bone may not be splintered. If it is, the irregular part must be removed by the forceps. The femoral artery should now be tied (if ordinary liga- tures are used), its orifice being seized and slightly drawn out by forceps; and afterwards any large branches that appear in the muscular inter- stices. Then all compression should be suddenly ceased, so that any arteries that are liable to bleed may do so, and be tied at once. Haemorrhage from large veins is to be restrained by elevating the stump, and making compression for a short time with the finger. If, however, nothing else will do, they must be tied. Any obstinate oozing from small vessels should be restrained by sponging with cold water, or perhaps by a touch with arg. nitras. So soon as bleeding has ceased, a light baKdage may be passed round the limb above the stump, and the edges of the wound should be nicely adapted with sutures and a few long strips of plaster. The edges are to be brought together in a straight line, which may be made either perpendicular or horizontal, the latter, however, being the better plan. The patient should then be removed to bed, and the stump be sup- ported on a pillow covered with oil-cloth or gutta-percha. No other application will be needed save a good flake of fine wadding to exclude the air, and absorb discharge. Pain may be allayed by an opiate. The stump may remain as it is for some days, the cotton being changed, and the discharge wiped occasionally from its surface. But after from four to six days, sooner or later, according to the quantity of the discharge and the feelings of the patient, the dressings should be changed, the straps being taken off and replaced one by one, with care not to distui-b the ligatures, and the hands of an assistant being employed to support the edges, and prevent their falling asunder. At the subsequent dress- ings, the points to be attended to are, to renew the light bandage occa- sionally, which was passed round the stump soon after the operation, in order to support the muscles, and prevent their retraction—to bring together the edges of the wound with adhesive straps, to press gently out all collections of matter, and take care that there is no bagging ; —to use some antiseptic if need be—to remove the ligatures when loose—(that on the femoral artery should not be disturbed for a fort- night)—and to accelerate cicatrization by the nitrate of silver, or other stimulants, if the granulations appear languid. If the patient is very emaciated, the circular incision may be carried down to the bone at once without ceremony, because in such patients the muscles always retract greatly. Sir C. Bell recommended the skin not to be divided quite circularly, but the knife to be inclined a little, so as to make two oval flaps. The same may be done also in dividing the muscles. 2, Flap Operation.—The flaps may be made, either from the inner and outer, or from the anterior and posterior aspects of the limb. The