COMPRESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. 371 SECTION III.—COMPRESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. Symptoms. —The symptoms of compression of the brain are those of apoplexy. They are, insensibility; palsy (sometimes general, some- times confined to one side) ; dilated and insensible pupil; slow, labour- ing pulse; skin often hot and perspiring; retention of the urine, through palsy of the bladder ; involuntary discharge of faeces, through palsy of the sphincter cini; stertorous breathing, owing to palsy of the velum pendulum palati; and whiffing or puffing respiration, from palsy of the buccinator and other facial muscles. Sometimes, however, the pupils are contracted, and sometimes one is contracted and the other dilated, usually indicating the side of the brain implicated most. Sometimes more or less squinting is present, or the eyes are turned spasmodically upward, so that only the whites are seen. That side of the body is paralysed which is opposite to the injury; and the paralysis, like the insensibility, may vary immensely in degree. There may be every degree from mere numbness and weakness to com- plete loss of power; and every degree of interruption to the mental functions, from slight drowsiness, or slowness, to utter unconsciousness. Convulsions and muscular twitchings or rigidity indicate generally iiTitation or laceration of the brain or its membranes. Causes.—Compression (surgically considered) may be produced by three causes. 1. By extravasation of blood. 2. By fracture of the skull, with depression. 3, By suppuration within its cavity. The symptoms of compression from extramsated blood generally show themselves in the following manner:—The patient receives a blow, and becomes stunned and insensible from the concussion, with extremely feeble pulse and cold skin. After a while he recovers his senses ; but again in an hour or two he becomes sleepy, confused, and insensible; with slow stertorous breathing, slow pulse, and dilated pupils. The symptoms closely correspond with those of one form of apoplexy, called the ingravescent; in which the patient suddenly feels an acute pain in the head, caused by the bursting of a blood-vessel, and becomes sick and faint—in fact, suffers from concussion. Then he re- covers his senses; but shortly afterwards, as the extravasation from the ruptured vessel increases, becomes quite comatose.* On the other hand, if a large quantity of blood is extravasated rapidly, the symptoms of compression may immediately succeed the insensibility of concussion, without any interval of consciousness. The blood may be situated, 1, between the dura-mater and skull ; and if in large quantity, it proceeds most likely from laceration of a branch of the middle meningeal artery. It may, however, proceed from one of the sinuses, particularly the lateral. It is the common con- sequence of fracture, by which the vessels running in the grooves of the bone are to]-n through. 2, between the membranes. Here we may refer to p. 23, for a notice of the fact, first clearly pointed out by * CopLand, Diet., Art. Apoplexy.