GENERAL HISTORY AND PATHOLOGY. 191 her neighbours to whom she had ignorantly offered her breast in the same manner as to the first. These gave the taint to their parents, and thus nine several persons became diseased with this lues in one month's time.''* If we want further evidence that a new disease invaded Europe at the end of the fifteenth century, and that this disease was true syphilis; that it was not the disease formerly known as leprosy; that it was propagated rapidly, and that its propagation was effected not merely by licentiousness, but by habits of uncleanness such as at least the upper classes of society are now free from, we may find it in the " CoUoquia " of Erasmus,! written about 1520. This book contains one Colloquium between two friends, one of whom laments the marriage of a young girl to a man who was affected with a most glorious pox—scabies siiperbissima, which he says has many names, as French, Neapolitan, and Spanish Pox, and yet no proper name of its own. He describes the flattened nose, stinking breath, and lame leg of the bridegi oom. He says this lues is worse than any kind of leprosy ; for it invades more quiclvly, recurs more obstinately, and often kills; while leprosy often allows men to live to a good old ao"e. This disease might be got by kissing, by whispering into the ear, by contact, and by drinking out of the same vessel. It were better, he says, to let the beard grow to the knees than to have it shaved by a man who might have dressed a poxed patient and infect you with his fingers, towels, combs, or scissors. No one ought to be surgeon and barber too. No persons ought to be allowed to drink out of the same cup. Nor ought any persons except husband and wife to sleep in the same bed. Nor ought guests in any hotel to sleep in sheets that have been used before. On which he observes that the Germans scarcely wash theirs twice a year. Kissing, even in church, should be prohi- bited.—Thus far Erasmus. 2. Was syphilis, the venereal disease par excellence, imported from America ? Columbus is said to have sailed from Spain, August 3,1492 ; to have reached Haiti on December 6 ; and to have left it on January 6, and reached Lisbon on March 6, 1493. Hence he went to Palos on March 15 ; whence he marched with 82 men and 9 Indians who had returned with him, to Barcelona, where the King of Spain was. On 25th September, 1493, he returned to Haiti with 17 ships and 1500 men; whence he despatched 14 ships on a return voyage to Spain in 1494. At the end of 1494, three more ships returned from Haiti, bringing with them Pedro de Margai'ita, a Catalonian gentleman, who has the reputed honour of having brought the pox in his own person to Europe. Ships now passed monthly each way ; one is said to have arrived in Cadiz on June 11, 1496, bringing two hundred soldiers affected with syphilis. Thus the disease was communicated to Spanish women ; and from them to Spanish soldiers who went to Naples to King Ferdinand II. to fight the French. Such is the account commonly given. We have no space to enter into the matter ; but may observe that * Quoted in Daniel Turner's Aphrodisiacus, Lond., 1737. t Erasmi CoUoquia, Elzevir, 1636, p. 512.