DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 384 and are anchylosed, as after ulceration of the cartilages of joints ; abscesses, if they form, are healed, or their matter is absorbed; and the patient recovers in two or three years, with more or less deformity, which is of course incurable. 2. In some fatal cases the patient dies suddenly from two or three of the diseased vertebrte giving way, and crushing the spinal cord; or from dislocation of the odontoid process, owing to ulceration of its ligament; or from the bursting of abscesses into the spinal cord; or from their bursting into the pleura or peritoneum; but more frequently death is caused by slow irritation and exhaustion, consequent on the formation and bursting of psoas or lumbar abscesses. Diagnosis.—This affection must not be confounded with hysteria. It may readily be distinguished from the distortion which arises from debility by noticing that the curvature is abrupt and angular, whereas in the latter affection it is gradual and rounded, and implicates nearly the whole spine. Treatment.—1. Rest in the horizontal posture is absolutely neces- sary. But the patient must not be taught to lie on his back, nor must any means be used with a view of straightening the spine, as they would merely impede the natural process of recovery, by preventing the remains of the diseased vertebrai from falling together. A bandage containing strips of whalebone, and reaching from the head to the hips, is of use in keeping the trunk at perfect rest. 2. Issues may be made and kept open with caustic on each side of the spinous processes of the diseased vertebrae, if there is any irritation of the spinal cord. In scrofulous cases they do no good. Leeches may relieve occasional accessions of pain or tenderness. 3. At the same time, the constitution must be thoroughly supported by good diet, and by cod-liver oil, sarsa- parilla, phosphate of lime, F. 201, or bark with lime-water, and steel, and other tonics and alteratives, as directed for scrofula. 4. Efficient mechanical support during convalescence is necessary. III. Lumbar and Psoas Abscess.—These are abscesses arising commonly from that diseased condition of the spine which has just been described, although abscesses may occur in the same situation from con- stitutional debility and other causes, without spinal disease. When the connexions of the various muscles and fasciae and the relations of the great nerves to the spine are considered, the variety of courses which these abscesses take is very intelligible. Sometimes they point in the back (constituting lumbar abscess if low down) ; sometimes the matter makes its way between the abdominal muscles, and may pomt at any part of the abdominal parietes ; sometimes it enters the sheath of the psoas muscle, passes downwards in its sheath generally along the course of the anterior crural nerve, causes absorption of that muscle, and points below Poupart's ligament, forming a tumour which diminishes or dis- appears when the patient lies down, and receives an impulse on cough- ing. This is called psoas abscess. In some few cases it does not extend below Poupart's ligament, but can be felt through the abdominal parietes as an oblong tumour in the situation of the psoas muscle: in other cases it extends downwards into the thigh, on the outer side, or