710 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. son. The surgeons who first performed operations with the aid of it, were Dr. Miller and Dr. Duncan, at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, early in November 1847,* Chemical History.— Chloroform is a terchloride of a hypothetical base, termed Formyle, which consists of two atoms of carbon and one of hydrogen. Hence the symbolic designation of chloroform is C2H,Cl3, It was discovered by Soubeiran in 1831, by Liebig in 1832, and by- Mr. Samuel Guthrie, of Sacket's Harbour, New York, in the same year ;t its real nature was ascertained by Dumas and Pe'ligot in 1835. It is obtained by distilling rectified spirit with water and chloiide of lime, in the proportions of four pounds of powdered chloride of hme, twelve pounds of water, and twelve fluid ounces of rectified spirit. These are mixed and distilled, so long as a dense liquid, which sinks in the water with which it comes over, is produced. It is rectified by agitating it with the strongest colourless sulphuric acid, which if it contain any impurities, such as the empyreumatic oils with which it is liable to be contaminated, at once destroys them by charring, and renders them manifest by the dark colour of the line where the chloro- form and acid come into contact. It is poured otf and agitated with tresh acid, if necessary, then poured carefully oft' into a dry stoppered bottle, and shaken with some peroxide of manganese, from which it may be decanted, fit for use.J Pure chloroform is a dense colourless liquid, having the specific gravity, when quite pure, of from 1*480 to 1*5, It is exceedingly volatile, and boils at about 140^. It has an agreeable sweet fruity smell and taste, and if poured on a piece of blotting-paper and evapo- rated, ought to leave no oily empyreumatic smell behind. By passing its vapour through a red-hot tube, it is decomposed, and hydrochloric acid is given off, which may be detected by means of paper moistened with solution of nitr-ate of silver. By such a process, Dr*. Snow detected it in the bodies of kittens poisoned by a very minute quantity of it, and in the muscles of a child's leg which had been amputated at St. George's Hospital after inhalation of the vapour. Chlor-oform is almost incombustible, thus offei'ing an advantageous contrast to ether, from the explosion of which at least one serious acci- dent happened dur-ing its administr-ation.§ Effects on the Animal Economy.—When the vapour of chloroform is received into the lungs, it is absorbed into the blood, and conveyed to the nervous centres and r-est of the body, upon which it soon produces very marked effects. These it is convenient to divide into degrees, and the division which the writer proposes as the most practically useful, is the following :—The first, or slightest degree, corresponds with what may be called exhilar-ation or slight intoxication. The pulse is quick- * Miller's Principles of Surgery, vol. ii., p. 756. t Cogswell, Lancet, 1847, vol. ii., p. 631 ; Waldie, ib., p. 687. X Gregory, quoted in Ranking's Abstract, vol. xi., p. 231. 9 Med. Gaz., 2Cth Sept. 1850.