288 FRACTURES OF THE LEG. lower half of the leg or heel the end of a broad piece of adhesive plaster spread on strong unyielding material, such as Canton flannel, leaving a long loop under the heel. To the loop is to be hooked a cord, which passes over a pulley placed in an upright piece of wood fastened to the foot of the bed. Extension is made by a weight fastened to the end of the cord sufficient to neutralize the action of the muscles. Counter-extension is provided for by raising the lower part of the bedstead, on bricks, or wood blocks, as before described in Dr. N. Smith's plan of treating fractured femur. Coaptation splints are also used to the fractured part, in addition to this apparatus, when de- sirable. Lastly. In all cases of fracture of the leg, it is a good plan to sus- pend, or swing the injured part, by means of Dr. Salter's or some similar apparatus. It is not only more comfortable for the patient, but it allows of the use of the bed-pan, with much less risk of dis- turbing the fracture.* For FRACTURE OP THE HEAD OF THE TiBIA INTO THE KnEE- JOINT the treatment is the same as for fracture of the condyles - of the femur. The limb should be placed straight, so that the end of the femur may act as a splint, and keep the broken parts in their places. The whole limb should be raised, so as to relax the extensor muscles of the knee ; and this should be done in all cases of fracture of the upper end of the tibia (for which, consequently, the treatment by splints, with the knee bent, is inapplicable). Pasteboard splints and starched bandages should be applied to keep the joint motionless ; but they should not cover the front of the knee. Passive motion should be commenced in about five weeks. Fracture of the lower end of the Fibula, about three inches above the ankle joint (Potts' fracture), is not an uncommon accident, and may be caused by twists of the foot, by a dii-ect kick, or by jump- ing on uneven ground. Fracture of the internal Malleolus may occur in the same way; and one or the other of these fractures commonly accompanies dislocation of the ankle. Treatment.—They may be treated either with the bandage and two splints, or with Macintyre's splint, or with Fergusson's side-splint, or * The apparatus is made by Matthews of Portugal Street, Lincoln's Inn. Some cases of fracture of the lower end of the thigh likewise admit of this treatment. It is depicted in the chapter on Excision of the Knee.