CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 43 order, to allay local irritation, and to restore the tone of the distended vessels. Constitutional Treatment,—On this part of the subject, our space forbids us to do more than to make a few remarks on the most obvious forms of constitutional derangement which accompany chronic intlam- mation, and on the remedies that are known by experience to be most useful as alteratives. (1.) If the patient is bloated and plethoric, with red lips and con- junctiva, and a full hard pulse, and indulges freely in stimulating food and drink, and has active digestive organs, so that blood is con- stantly formed in too great abundance, the diet must be lowered and restricted chiefly to fish and vegetables ; free exercise should be taken in the air; the bowels should be actively purged with calomel and black draught; and then a course of alterative medicine should be commenced in order to increase the various eliminative secretions. Mercury, given in small doses at bed-time with saline aperients in the morning, deserves to be mentioned first: Plummer's pill, in doses of gr. V, every night, is an excellent form, or F. 63, 65; taking care, however, to use the mercury in obtaining increased elimination by the liver, and not to cause salivation. Next to mercury, tartar emetic, given in very small doses, F. 68, is deserving of notice ; it is highly advantageous to combine it with mercury, F. 67. Sahne and alterative medicines, F. 58, 61, will also be of great service. (2.) But if the chronic inflammation occur in an enfeebled and irritable or scrofulous constitution, a nutritious and liberal diet must be adopted, wine, cod-liver oil, and tonics (F. I, 2, 3, 9, &c.) should be administered in order to improve the digestion and vigour of the circu- lation ; irritation and pain must be allayed by sedatives and opiates ; and the secretions of the bowels be maintained by the gentlest laxatives. (3.) If the complexion and eye are sallow, a few doses of calomel or blue pill, at night, or F. 63, with morning aperients, and the nitro- muriatic acid, F, 22, or dandelion, and colchicum, are indicated. (4.) In all cases the condition of the urine should be inspected, to ascertain whether albumen or blood discs,—indications of congestion or degeneration of the kidneys,—are present. In such cases, and in all others in which the skin is dry and harsh, it should be stimulated by exercise, by warm clothing, especially flannel, by the flesh-brush or horse-hair gloves, and by a daily warm bath ; 96°—98° Fahr. Local Treatment.—This has for its objects, to remove exciting causes, to unload the distended vessels, and to make them contract to their natuial calibre, and to exercise the part in its proper functions, so that it may gradually resume the actions and sensations of health. Local bleeding may be employed at intervals to unload the ves- sels. The application of cold is often highly serviceable. These or any other measures will be known to do good if they make the part feel stronger and more comfortable, although their first application may have been painful; but if they render it hotter and pei-manently