279 FRACTUEES OF THE FEMUR. First, the splint should be thoroughly well padded with layers of blanket. Then the limb should be evenly bandaged from the toes upwards, and gently extended to its proper length and shape. Next, one fixed point of extension is made by passing a bandage repeatedly round the instep and ankle, and tlirough the notches at the lower end of the splint. Next, the splint is thoroughly secured to the limb by a bandage carried upwards. Lastly, the extension is to be made by grasping the foot and splint together, and steadily making traction, while an assistant di-aws up tightly the perineal band through the holes at the top of the splint. This method of not attempting ex- tension till after the ankle is secured to the splint is a saving of much pain to the patient. The next cut shows an improved form of the long splint, employed by Mr. Haynes Walton. It will be seen that it does not extend below the foot, and that it has two splits of unequal depth, through which the bandage is passed, so as to get a thorough purchase from the a kle (not from the heel and dorsum of the foot), and to keep the splint square with the leg. The ankle should be well padded. For a perineal band, Mr. Walton recommends a fold or two of blanket, or several folds of flannel, sewed up in oiled-silk, and having a pisce of stout tape tacked to each end. In order to prevent the galling of the perineal band, and its sup- posed tendency to draw the fractured parts asunder, Mr. Fergusson had adopted the plan in some cases of making counter extension from a strong stay of jean, accurately fitted to the upper third of the opposite thigh ; from which a band extends back and front to the upper end of the splint. This is very comfortable, and obviates the necessity of the band round the belly, since it draws the splint towards the body. Professor Syme of Edinburgh now treats fractured thigh-bone by placing the patient straight upon a hard mattress, drawing over both legs and body a folded bedsheet, which is then fastened down at the sides. Along each side of the fractured limb, long sandbags are then