77 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. military hospitals, whence it derives its other name, hospital gan- grene.^ Thirty or forty years ago it was common in London hospitals, especially in the case of young prostitutes, who had been exposed to cold and wet, drink, starvation, venereal sores and discharges, and a wretched vagrant life ;—especially, too, if salivation were superadded. Now it is seen from time to time in the prostitutes who lie out in Hyde Park. It is especially liable to be induced by the too free administra- tion of mercury, or by intemperance and exposure to Avet during a mercurial course. The worst cases, however, appear to arise from, neglected local irritation without any specific virus; as frorn acrid discharges and defective cleanliness. Mr. Lawrence mentions the case of a young woman who had suffered from severe small-pox, and from diarrhoea after it. The continual moisture from the rectum, with a mucous discharge from the vagina, irritated and inflamed the skin of the nates, and caused a large sloughing phagedaenic excavation on both sides. Symptoms.—*' It usually commences as a highly-irritable and pain- ful boil, surrounded by a halo of dusky-red inflammation, and much elevated ; the patient also in general having mucous discharges from the vagina, and a diffused redness of integument in the vicinity of the pudenda." There are severe darting and stinging pains, which are at first intermittent, but gradually establish themselves as a constant symptom, with occasional exacerbations. When the pustule is ruptured, the exposed surface of the idcer displays a stratum of ad- herent straw-coloured flocculi, mottled with darker points of reddish- brown and gray. The sore thus formed soon enlarges in breadth and depth ; the edges become everted, and attended with a circumscribed thickening which is surrounded by dusky inflammation and diffused puffy swelling. The surface is composed of gray or ash-coloured sloughs, which may become brown, or resemble coagula of blood. The discharge is reddish-brown, and peculiarly foetid, and there is occa- sionally severe hgemorrhage. Meanwhile the agonising pain, the haemorrhage, and the absorption of putrid matters, soon induce severe irritative fever,—with loss of sleep, anxiety, restlessness, thirst, and exhausting diarrhoea;—which, if not relieved, may produce death in about three weeks; and, as delirium is rare, the patient retains a miserable consciousness of severe suflei-ing to the end.f Hospital Gangrene is the name given to this affection when occurring in military and naval practice. It is engendered by crowding together a number of sick and wounded men, and by inattention to * In civil hospitals any serious attack of hospital gangrene is almost unheard of. Yet it appeared in 1844 in University College Hospital. Liston, Lancet, 1845, vol. i. p. 57. In the Middlesex Hospital in 1835, South's Chelius, vol. i. p. 67. The disease appeared in St. Bartholomew's Hospital and in St. George's in 1847; C. Hawkins, Med. Gaz. iST.S., vol. iv. p. 1026. An account of its ravages in the British camp after the battle of Ferozepore, by Mr. Taylor, sur- geon to the 29th Regt., is quoted by Guthrie, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 714. t Welbank, Med. Chir. Trans vol. xi.; Lawrence, Med. Gaz. vol. v.