721 CHLOROFORM. le operation. Account must be taken of exposure to cold and loss of lood during long operations. The air which reaches the patient should e puie ; and lastly, if the pulse be very soft, and the heart's impulse ;eble, and the patient subject to breathlessness on slight exertion, it will 3 wise to give enough merely to abate mental disquietude, without iitire insensibility. The signs of danger of narcotism fi'om protracted inhalation ai-e, i) breathing slow, or shallow and quick and feeble, or intermittent; b) pupil dilating ; (c)pulse very feeble or intermittent. The remedies re to take away the chloroform, open doors and windows, and dash cold ^ater in the face, and give stimulants by mouth or rectum. But apposing that symptoms of heart-failure show themselves? Then, in idition, pull the tongue forwards, so as to unstop the glottis; use rtificial respiration by Silvester's method ; or by inflating the lungs from louth to mouth, and emptying them by pressure on the thorax; to o^Ay one pole of a galvanic apparatus to the neck; another to the dia- hragm or to the heart itself, running in a fine needle; (galvanism, be it bserved, should be used gently, and not long together). If breathing be ^stored, the rest is a matter of time and stimulants. Dr. Chapman's 'iperiment, in which the distended heart of an animal was set beat- ig by loss of blood, suggests the propriety of opening the jugular ein, and letting some blood flow, especially if the face be turgid. >r. Sibson suggested to the author, in conversation, the expediency of ejecting into a vein, towards the heart, some stimulating liquid. The eartwill beat a long time in warm water: and the injection of warm '■aler with a little salt, or of pure fi'esh blood from the veins of a ystander, would be a most desirable experiment. The number of well-authenticated cases of death from chloroform col- icted by the Committee of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society is 123 ; '■hich probably is not more than two-thirds of those which have actually ccurred. It is an abuse of statistics to attempt from any data yet at ur command to estimate the amount of danger run by any individual atient. This must be a result of the quality of the chloroform, f the quantity used in a given time, of the mental and bodily condition f the patient, of the care and skill of the chloroformist, and of the latience of the surgeon who has to operate; for if he be in a hurry, nd pull out his watch, and if the chloroformist take the hint, and ush the vapour suddenly, the patient is in imminent risk. Has chloroform, on the whole, increased the mortality of operations ? )r. James Arnott asserted that the mortality of amputations has icreased from 21 to 34 per cent, since the introduction of chloroform, nd in consequence of the use of it; but the inquiries of the Com- littee of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society have confirmed the onclusions previously arrived at by Mr. Fenwick and Mr. Coates, hat the mortality of operations has not been increased. Chloroform compared with other Anesthetics.—It remains 0 be seen whether some substitute can be found for chloroform, or /hether a combination of it with other narcotics may be equally D 3 A "