DISEASES OF THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 289 with Dupuytren's (p. 288), which is a diminutive of the long straight splint. It is to be well padded, and applied to the side opposite the fracture; but it is not so easy to keep the foot in a proper position with this as with the other apparatus. The surgeon will often find one or more hags of smid most convenient auxiliaries in keeping fractures of the leg in proper position. They may be used both to lay the broken limb upon, and also to put on either side to prevent the limb from rolling. This substance is so ponderous and devoid of elasticity, that it steadily retains whatever position is given to it. Compound fractures of the leg are to be treated on the principles already laid down for the treatment of compound fracture in general. Some cases do very well laid on the outer side on a well-padded side- splint, and covered by a many-tailed bandage. This position is most suitable for cases complicated with erysipelas, sloughing, or burrow- ing of matter, along the front and inside of the limb. XIV. Fractures of the Foot will often be attended with so much other mischief as to render amputation expedient. But an at- tempt should be made to save part of it; especially the ball of the great toe. Pasteboard splints and other contrivances must be used to preserve the proper position; and if matter forms, there should be no delay in freely dividing the dense fascias of the foot, to let it escape. The tuberosity of the os calcis may be broken by the action of the muscles attached to it, in the same manner as the patella and olecra- non, and like these parts will probably unite only by ligament. The treatment must be the same as that of ruptured tendo Achillis.* CHAPTER YI. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. SECTION T.—THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 1. Acute Inflammation of the synovial membrane (or synovitis) may be produced by local or by constitutional causes. The former are, blows, strains, mechanical injuries, and especially penetrating wounds. The latter are, exposure to cold, and the rheumatic, gouty, syphilitic, mercurial, and sometimes the gonorrhoeal poisons. It very seldom attacks young children. The joint most frequently affected is the knee. Symptoms.—In the most acute form, the symptoms are severe aching pain in the joint, aggravated by the slightest motion ; great * Hamilton's Practical Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, published at Fhiladelphia by Blanchard and Lea, 1860, is a good book on the subject, D U