155 DIFFERENT EEGIONS OF THE BODY. member that it does not follow that because a man is wounded in the abdomen therefore he must be bled. lu injuries of this region adhesive inflammation is earnestly desired. Prophylactic bleedings are believed by most surgeons of the present day to be positively injurious; and it is generally considered that it is sufficient to meet actively an evil when it presents itself without submitting a patient to powerful remedies in anticipation of a mischief which may never occur. Occasionally cases have been met with in which a ball after pene- trating the abdomen has been lodged in the bladder. M. Baudens removed a ball from the bladder by the operation above the pubis, and the late Mr. Guthrie succeeded in getting one away by the lateral opera- tion. Mr. Dixon* relates ten cases in which balls were successfully removed from the bladder, and three in which the attempts failed. Instances are also on record of balls having been pabsed by the bowels at stool, proving that they must have lodged in the intestine. Wounds of the liver, though usually fatal from intlammation, are not necessarily so: portions of protruding liver have been excised, aud the patient recovered. SECTION VIII.—GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE LIMBS—AMPUTATION, PRIMARY AND SECONDARY. Gun-shot Wounds of the Extremities are met with more fre- quently than wounds in any other region of the body. Both the upper and lower extremities are liable to similar wounds, but the danger is far greater in wounds of the latter. We may have— 1st. Flesh Wounds, caused either by the passage or lodgment of balls, without producing any fracture of the bones, or injury to any important vessels or nerves ; or they may be pi-oduced by fragments of shell. The injury inflicted by a bullet is not usually veiy severe, and under simple dressing may soon get well. The damage, however, which results from fragments of shell, often ends in severe sloughing and loss of parts, producing, if the patient sur- vives the dram, great deformity from the contraction and cicatrization of the tissues which have been involved ; for example, after wounds of the calf of the leg, in which there has been loftS of a large portion of the gastrocnemius. 2nd. Simple Fractures are usually caused by spent balls; and al- though, in such cases, the integument may not have been broken, still sloughing often follows from the contusion. 3rd. Fractures with destruction of a portion of the integument are produced— (1st.) By balls penetmting the limb and striking the bone. (2nd.) By fragments of shell which may produce severe contusion and laceration of the integuments and muscles, and fracture of the bone. * Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiii.