WOUNDS. 134 and water. Dirt, gravel, &c., are best got rid of by affusion with lukewarm water. All clots of blood must likewise be removed. (3) In order to bring the sides of the wound into contact, the part must be placed in such a position as will relax any muscular fibres that have been divided, or that lie under the divided parts. Then the edges must be made to meet as nicely as possible. On this point the surgeon should use the utmost diligence, because the more that the parts are adapted, the less chance will there be of suppuration, and the more speedy and free ft'om deformity will the cure be. The edges of the wound may then be kept in their place by cross strips of adhesive plaster, one end of the plaster being first applied to that side of the wound which is loosest, and the other being brought across. Then a compress and bandage may be applied to keep on the dressings, and protect the parts from injury. It should be put on with such a degree of firmness as may feel comfortable to the patient and have the effect of preventing bleeding or other exudation. This point requires particular attention in subcutaneous surgery. If the wound is so situated that the plaster cannot be applied smoothly, a compress of lint may be laid on it first. Collodion.—A very useful substitute for adhesive plaster in many cases is the solution of gun cotton in ether, commonly known by the name collodion. This when applied to any surface dries instantly, forming a semi-transparent film of considerable tenacity, adhering firmly, and forming an artificial scab under which wounds often heal without any suppuration. In applying it, the edges of the wound should be held together as exactly as possible by an assistant, whilst a thick layer of the collodion is smeared across with a brush or small spatula. It is useful to apply it in the intervals of stitches or plasters, in order to exclude the air. This substance contracts so strongly that * 1. 3. 2. 4. @>= * 1. Fine glovers' needle; 2. Old harelip pin; 3. Curved surgical needles; 4. Fine steel needle for twisted suture.