549 ARTIFICIAL ANUS, author has operated, the patient pointed beforehand with perfect accu- racy to the spot where the obstruction was found. Should the operator eitlier fail in finding an obstruction, or in relieving it, the desperate resource remains of opening tlie bowel, as low down as possible, and stitching the opened part to the edge of the wound in the parietes so as to establish an artificial anus. -Although these proceedings have not hitherto met with much success, in all the cases recorded the patients' sufferings have been much relieved thereby, and an easier death has resulted.* VIII. Artificial Anus for the Relief of Obstruction.— When an obstruction of the bowels is situated in the rectum or colon, and the passage of faecal matter is entirely prevented, so that life is in imminent danger, it is the surgeon's duty to propose an operation for the patient's relief. The class of cases referred to, comprise, 1, cases of congenital defi- ciency of the rectum in new-born children, in which an attempt has been made unsuccessfully to open the bowel from the peringeum; 2, cases of impassable stricture of the rectum, or of some part of the colon; 3, of obstruction by cancerous and other growths within, or tumours without; or, in fact, by any other conceivable cause. Before resorting to such an operation, the surgeon must first ex- plore the rectum thoroughly by finger and bougie, inject water by the long tube, and take every other method of establishing an accurate diagnosis, since, of course, to make an opening below the point of stricture would be useless. Then there are two places in which the operation may be performed:— (1.) The sigmoid flexure of the colon may be opened by an incision in the left iliac region. This operation was proposed by Littre in 1720. Instead of opening the sigmoid flexure on the left, the caecum on the right side may, if deemed expedient, be opened by an oblique incision, near the anterior superior spine of the ilium. (2.) The colon may be opened in the lumbar region by a vertical incision along the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum, just above the crest of the ilium, as was proposed by Callisen in 1817, or by the horizontal section proposed by Amussat in 1832. This is generally called Amussat's operation. An incision through skin and fat may be made horizontally above, and parallel to, the crest of the ilium, com- mencing near the spine, and carried outwards for from two to five or six inches, according to the age and bulk of the patient. Taking the interval between the external oblique and latissimus dorsi muscles as a guide,—perhaps meeting the musculo-cutaneous lumbar nerves,—the * See a most able and comprehensive paper by B. Phillips, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi., containing copious bibliogi-aphical notices, and a catena of opinions; an account of a case by R, Druitt, in the same vol.; and of others by Dr. Gold- Ing Bird and Mr. Hilton in vol. xxx.; by Fergusson, Lancet, 1850, vol. i., p. 128. Also a most practical paper on complications of hernia,^and obstruction of the bowels, with numerous engravings and cases, by the late R. R. Robinson of Cam- berwell, from whom the author received much valuable information. Lond. Journ. of Med., 1851.