637 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. with blood, and sometimes containing shreds or flakes of lymph. As the disease proceeds, it deposits pus after standing. Fits of sleepiness, headaches, and sickness come on. These cases are almost sure to end fatally. Sometimes the patient dies of exhaustion and obstinate vomit- ing ; sometimes of suppression of urine and coma ; sometimes in a sudden fit of severe shivering; and sometimes of a rapid attack of inflammation of the pericardium or some other serous membrane. The kidneys are found after death to be soft and disoi'ganized; readily separating from their capsule, which, however adheres firmly to the flat and cellular tissue of the loins ; and most likely they are dilated into cysts; the secreting tissue being spread out over the dilated pelvis and infundibula. IV. Abscess in the Kidney.—This may be suspected if dull pain in the loins and repeated shivering follow the symptoms of ne- phritis. Sometimes the abscess bui sts into the ureter, and an immense quantity of pus is discharged with the urine. Abscess of the kidney also sometimes bursts on the loins, and the patient has been known to recover. V. Treatment of Chronic Kidney Disease.—On this subject we can but give a few general hints. When there is much tenderness in the loins, a moderate quantity of blood may be taken by cupping. Blisters or plasters of the emp, ammoniac!, or of opium oi- belladonna may also be of service. The skin should be kept warm by flannel. It will be necessary to provide for the free action of the liver and bowels, and to keep up the secretion of the kidneys, if deficient, by the milder sorts of diuretics, such as small doses of neutral salts ; the infusions of buchu, and uva uisi, of carrot-seed, or of the I'oot of parsley. The tar- trate of iron will be of great service. The diet generally should be plain, but nutritious. If the loss of albumen is gi-eat, it should be combated by gallic or tannic acid, or tincture of galls or rhatany, or decoction of oak-bark internally, and by the use of strong essence of meat. F. 198. VI. Hematuria, or Bloody Urine.—The seat of the htemorrhage may be either the kidneys, or the pi'ostate or bladder. 1. Haemorrhage from the kidney may be caused by the irritation of renal calculi, or by blows on the loins; by the congestion consequent on scarlet fever ; and by other diseased states of the whole system, as in typhus and scurvy. At the Cape of Good Hope and some other parts of the world a form of haematuria is endemic, and is caused by the presence of a minute worm in the veins of the kidney.* 2. Hemorrhage fi'om the prostate or bladder may be caused by the rude introduction of instruments, or by the irritation of stone; or by the existence of an ulcer or fungoid tumour, of which, in fact, it is often the earliest manifestation. When the blood is derived from the bladder, some portion of it often flows pure after the urine is discharged, * John Harley, Med. Chir. Trans., 1864, and Hooper's Phj-sician's Vade Mecum, 1864.