96 SCROFULOUS DISEASES. II. Scrofulous Abscesses (besides those which are caused by diseased glands or bone) may occur under three forms. 1st. They may commence imperceptibly in the cellular tissue, either under the skin, or between the skin and bone, or in the deep intermuscular tissue, or in the neighbourhood of a joint, beginning with fibroplastic tumour, which after a time softens down. 2ndly. A circular piece of skin, of the size of a shilling or half-crown, with the tissue immedi- ately beneath, may slowly inflame and swell, forming a hard, red tumour like a carbuncle, but painless. After a time it suppurates im- perfectly, and does not get well till the whole of the diseased part is desti'oyed by ulceration. 3rdly. A small hard tumour of unhealthy lymph may form in the cellular tissue, which after a time inflames, causes abscess, and then sloughs out. See Chap. xiv. Sect. 10. III. Disease of the Lymphatic Glands, especially in the neck, is the commonest of scrofulous or tubercular maladies. It may be primary, or may be created by some ii-ritation of adjoining skin or mucous membrane. It may begin with an acute attack of inflammation, or with an indolent and painless deposit. In the latter case the enlarged glands may remain for years stationary or slowly enlarging, till at length, from local irritation or disorder of the health, they inflame, and abscesses form between them and the skin. In some few cases, after the abscess is opened, it contracts and heals, the glands remaining nearly as before. But more generally all the skin covering the abscess be- comes infiltrated, just as the lung does outside a vomica, and adheres to the gland, and ulcerates, healing after a long time with an ugly puckered cicatrix, but not till the whole gland has wasted with sup- puration. These swellings have been known to destroy life by com- pressing the tracheal or cervical vessels, or by bursting into them. We would speak, did space permit, of the connection of chronic enlargement of lymphatic glands with that of the spleen. IV. Scrofulous Ulcers may be the result of the pustules and excoriations of the skin that have been spoken of; or they may be formed by the ulceration of glandular and other chronic abscesses; in which case they sometimes destroy extensive tracts of skin and cellular tissue, and may kill the patient by exhaustion, or render a limb rigid and useless if he l ecover. Or they may be attended with a hardened base, thick everted edges, a copious formation of pale granulations and deposit of unhealthy lymph in the adjoining cellular tissue, which, with the gi anulations, is liable to fits of sloughing, preceded by severe pain. Or they may take the character of lupus non exedens, a shallow ulcer, spreading in one direction and healing in another. Treatment.—The first and main point is to procure a radical im- provement of the general health by the means already spoken of. 2. Lotions of zinc or iodine, or chloride of ammonium, F. 118, poultices of the ficus tesiculosus, or mercurial plaster on leather, may be used to procure absorption. The objection to these remedies is, not that tliev are mischievous, but powerless. 3rdly. When suppuration occurs, the matter should be evacuated by a sufficiently large puncture or in-