DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 504: tube- The only remedy is to feed the patient constantly with the stomach-pump, so that the pouch may be allowed to close, IV. Permanent Stricture of the oesophagus signifies a narrow- ing produced by a thickening of its coats, which form a firm ring, en- croaching on the canal. It is generally found just below the termina- tion of the pharynx ; that is, opposite the cricoid cartilage, and is most frequent in females. The symptoms are, difficulty of swallowing, noticed probably for years, gra- dually increasing ; never absent; and occasionally aggravated by fits of spasm. The act of swal- lowing frequently produces pain in the chest, which shoots be- tween the shoulders, and up to the head. When a bougie is passed, it meets with an obstruc- tion. The causes of this affection are generally unknown: some- times, however, it appears to be a sequel of repeated quinsy, or to be caused by swallowing boiling or corrosive liquids: in one case it appeared to be induced by vio- lent retching in sea-sickness. The prognosis is always serious, espe- cially if the complaint is of long duration. If unrelieved, its con,' sequences will be ulceration of the oesophagus, either above or below the stricture, with sali- vation, vomiting of purulent matter, and impossibility of de- glutition, which in no long time will be followed by death. The fatal termination may be owing either to sheer starvation, or to the iri'itation of the local disease, or the extension of ulceration to the lungs. Treatment.—A mild course of mercury, so as just to affect the gums ;—occasional leeching, to relieve exacerbations of pain or spasm : —hyoscyamus or conium, if there be much irritability ;—a seton be- tween the scapulas; and the occasional passage of a bougie, or of a hall prohang—an ivory ball attached to a piece of whalebone or flexible wire —or of a piece of sponge moistened with a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and attached to a stout copper wire, as recommended by Sir C. Bell, are the remedies. The method of introducing the bougie is as * This cut exhibits a stricture of the oesophagus. From the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital,