APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 812 8. Sympus Quince. R. Quinse citratis gr. iv.; syrupi simplicis fervefacti f^j. ; olei essentialis amygdalarum amarum gnttas ij. Misce. Dosis, fluid- drachma bis vel ter die. A vertj elegant preparation devised by the author. The flavour of the hitter almonds hides the hitter of the quinine. A few grains of tannin hide the hitterness of quinine. (^Parrish.') The various secondary alkaloids, produced from cinchona bark, as the amorphous quinine, the cinchonia, quinidine, &c., &c., are well deserving the attention of practitioners. See Clements R. Markham's Travels in Peru. 9. Sulphate of Zinc Mixture and Pill. R. Zinci sulphatis gr. vj.; acidi sulphuric! diluti TTl_xxx.; syrupi aurantii f^ss.; infusi aurantii f^vss. Misce, sumantur cochlearia duo ter die. R. Zinci sulphatis gr. xij.; extracti anthemidis 3ss. Misce, et divide in pilulas xij.; quarum sumatur una vel dugs ter die. A good tonic when steel is of doubtful propriety; and in oxaluria after pur- gation. Dr. Robert Dickson's Pills of Oxyde of Zinc. R. Zinci oxydi, grana quatuor: ext. gentianse, granum. Misce, fiat pilula ter die sumenda. Dr. R. Dickson has found this remedy of great service in the profuse perspirations of phthisis. Preparations of Iron. 10. Quevenne's " Per Reduit." R, Ferri redacti P.B. granum ; sacchari lactis granum ; fiat pulvis, linguae imponendus, inter cibum, ter die. Iron Filings. R. Ferri liraaturse pura granum ; mannse, saponis, theriacas, vel extracti glycyrrhiz^ quantum satis sit, utfiat pilula, ter die sumenda. When iron is administered slowly and gently in order to produce a gradual improvement of health, the metallic iron, in the form of iron filings, answers perfectly vjell. Or Quevenne's iron reduced by hydro- gen may be substituted as more refined, although it often becomes oxydized before it is swallowed. The old black steel wine from Apothecaries' Hall, and the various preparations of carbonate and oxyde, answer much the same purpose. Although iron improves the quality of the blood in the right (;ases, we are not warranted in sup- posing that this is due to absorption of the metal, but much more likely, to its action on the mucous membrane. Hence the practitioner, in choosing his preparation, should decide whether he chooses to give a rapidly acting and powerful styptic preparation, such as the chloride, or a mild one. The salts with vegetable acids, the phosphates, and lactates are shown by experience to be the least annoying. Dr. Munk