169 POISON OF INSECTS. CHAPTER YII. EFFECTS OF THE POISON OF HEALTHY ANIMALS, AND TREAT- MENT OF POISONED WOUNDS GENERALLY. SECTION I.—EFFECTS OF POISONOUS INSECTS AND SERPENTS. I. Insects.—The bites or stings of any insects that are met with in England are not of sufficient importance to need surgical assistance, unless inflicted in extraordinary numbers, or in peculiar situations. Mr. Lawrence* mentions the case of a French gentleman who was so severely stung by bees about the upper part of the chest, that he died in fifteen minutes, with all the symptoms of mortal collapse usually produced by the bite of venomous serpents. Children, if much stuno; by bees or wasps, may suffer severely from headache and fever. But the most common instance of danger from these insects is the alarming suffocation produced when their sting is inflicted in the pha- rynx or back part of the mouth, which sometimes happens when they are concealed in fruit, and are incautiously taken into the mouth. Treatment.—If a person have been stung sufficiently to cause faint- ness or constitutional depression, cordials and opiates must be admi- nistered without delay. Respecting the local treatment, the first thing to be done is to examine the parts with a lens, and extract the stings with a fine forceps, if they have been left in the wound, as they very frequently are. Then the best applications are the diluted liquor ammoniae, spirit of hartshorn, or spirit of sal-volatile; carbonate of soda or chalk ; vinegar, or eau de Cologne ; also, soap liniment, or compound camphor liniment, may be used to remove the cedomatous swelling that remains. The author has been informed by a friend at Sydney, that a poultice of ipecacuanha is there considered to be a specific for almost every kind of venomous bite. In the case of a wasp or bee-stint] in the fauces, with urgent danger of suffocation, leeches may be applied externally ; and gargles (espe- cially hot salt and water) should be frequently used, in the hope of re- ducing the tumefaction, by causing a copious flow of blood and of saliva: but if these measures fail of affi)rding relief, an opening must be made into the larnyx or trachea. For the bites of bugs, fleas, gnats, mosquitoes, &c., the treatment is the same. II. Spiders.—The most celeb-ated of this cl?4ss is the tarantula, the miraculous effects imputed to the bite of which are too well known to need repetition here ; and we can feel but little hesitation in subscrib- ing to the opinion of Ray, " that the dancing of the Tarantati to certain tunes and instruments, and that these fits continue to recur yearly as long as the tarantula that bit them lives and then cease, are no other than acting fictions, and tricks to get money." We * Lecture, Med. Gaz. voL v. p. 582.