DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 602 because the point of the bougie catches in the folds of the mucous mem- brane, or is obstructed by the promontory of the sacrum. ; XVL Polypus of the rectum, a rare disease ; must be removed by ligature, or by knife, or the ecraseur. XVII. Cancer of the rectum is usually of the scirrhous variety, and situated at first about two or three inches above the anus. It may either commence as a distinct tumour, or as an infiltration of some part of the walls of the bowel. The earliest symptoms are uneasiness in the rectum, with a sense as if some fgecal matter had lodged there; aching and pain in the back, hips, and thighs, and iiTitation of the bladder. As the disease advances, the bowel becomes more or less obstructed ; there is frequent discharge of a fetid muco-purulent matter streaked with blood;-and there is a most obstinate constipation, at- tended with enormous swelling of the abdomen, and sometimes with all the symptoms of strangulated hernia; but this may alternate with the most profuse and exhausting diarrhoea. Abscesses about the rectum, opening perhaps into the bladder or vagina, aggravate the patient's misery, and death ensues from exhaustion, or from peritonitis, or per- haps from rupture of the distended bowels. This disease is to be distinguished by examination with the finger, or with the speculum ; which will detect hardening and ulceration, or perliaps fungating tu- mours blocking up the gut.* Treatment.—The first object is, to keep up the action of the bowels by enemata of wai-rn water, and by the mildest laxatives: and to allay irritation by occasionally leeching the sacrum ; by belladonna and opiate plasters; or occasional enemata or suppositories of opium^ or large doses of henbane or conium ; and by the tepid hip-bath. Sir B, Brodie recommends injections of linseed oil, either pure or mixed with lime-water, and balsam of copaiba with alkalies internally. When the obstruction threatens to become considerable, it will be expedient to use bougies, very gently, of the softest material, and not more frequently than is absolutely necessary. When these fail, it may be expedient, as a temporary resource, to cut through, or to excise some portion of the obstructing growth, or even to force the finger, or a flexible tube, through it, if possible with safety: some surgeons have even extirpated the lower extremity of the rectum ; but all these operations can only be regarded in the light of palliatives. As a last resource, an artificial anus may be formed by Amussat's operation.! For cancerous and epithelial diseases of the verge of the anus, and their treatment, by operation or otherwise, we may refer to the works of Lebert, Curling, and Lisfranc. XVIII. Pruritus Ani, a very violent itching of the anus, is a very * In a case related to the author by Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, ulceration of the anus, of the worst syphilitic character, laid open the peritonaeum between the rectum and vagina: a portion of omentum protruded ; it was imperfectly replaced, as it was supposed, naturally enough, to be a prolapse of the rectum, and the patient died with symptoms of strangulation. f Walshe, op, cit., p. 297. Csesar Hawkins, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv.