86 TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. grene. They may easily be distinguished by their sensibility and temperature, and by the fact that in gangrene the whole cuticle has lost its adhesion to the cutis, so that pressure will cause the vesicle to shift its place. General Treatment.—The indications are, 1st, To treat the original disease or injuiy which may have caused the gangrene, or may he causing it to spread ; 2ndly, To promote, if possible, the formation of a line of healthy inflammation whereby the progress may be arrested ; and to accelerate the ulcerative and suppurative process whereby the sioughs are cast off; 3rdly, To protect the patient's system from con- tamination by disinfectants ; 4thly, To maintain the strength, and treat the general health. I. For the first indication we must refer to the Sections on the dif- ferent Injuries, Fractures, Syphilis, &c. II. The second and third indications are fulfilled by applications which serve to mummify the dead parts, and to act as gentle stimu- lants on the living. Such are ointment of creosote, with a linseed poultice over. There are other so-called terebinthinate applications, as Peruvian balsam, Fi-iar's balsam, turpentine, &c., but creosote is the best; lotions of the chloride of zinc or iron, F. 117, 127. Poul- tices of carrot, beer grounds, and yeast have special virtues in some sloughing sores. The air of the apartment should be kept pure, and if need be should be impregnated with vapour of iodine, chlorine, vinegar, or pastilles. In the present state of chemistry, it is a disgrace to a surgeon if he cannot keep a wound from stinking. Cotton wool thoroughly dusted with bismutli, or liniment of bismuth and glycei-ine, F. 149, or charcoal poultice, have the double effect of soothing, and of absorbing ill odours. III. The strength must be maintained by food and wine; restless- ness be allayed by opium ; and much good will besides be obtained from bark. For food the best beef-tea thickened, F. 196 : with eggs, and such other nourishment as the stomach will bear. Such wine, brandy, or spirit, or good beer must be given as the patient likes, and as he is accustomed to. Opium is of prodigious utility from its power of allaying irrita- bility ; so that it renders the constitution insensible as it were to the local mischief—or, in Hunter's language, " It does good by not letting the disease do harm to the constitution." It may either be given in small doses frequently repeated, or, if there be at any time very great restlessness, especially towards night, it will be better to give a full dose at once; such as forty or fifty minims of the tincture, or two grains of the solid opium. The most efficacious preparations of bark are the decoction of yellow bark, and Battley's liquor cinchonse flavaj, the value of which, the author learned many years since from Dr. Farre. It may be given every six hours, combined with nitric acid. Sir B. Erodie and Mr. Vincent believe that ammonia, if too long per- severed in, depresses the vital energies. Their practical experience has confirmed the conclusions arrived at by those who have studied the