CANCER IN BONES. 249 3rdly. Tumours depending on eulargenfient of the osseous arteries.* To the last, the name of osteo-aneunsm is given. The seat of the tumour is generally the extremity of one of the long bones, and frequently the tibia just below the knee. The patient complains of a sudden pain in the part. This is followed by painful swelling, and all the veins of the leg are observ^ed to be very tense and full. After a time, the whole limb becomes dark red, and painful ; and the tumour becomes distinctly pulsatory. It is generally moderately firm to the touch, and perhaps gives a slight crackling sensation, owing to the thin shell of bone covering some part of it. On examination it is found to be com- posed of a spongy tissue, containing convoluted vessels and cells, the latter filled with clots of blood in concentric layers : the bone of course expanded, thinned, and absorbed. This disease has also been observed in the humerus, radius, femur, and ilium. The treatment of such growths consists either in removing them by a direct operation from the cavity of the bone, or by ligature of the main artery of the limb ; or, lastly, iu very aggravated cases, resulting in entire removal of the thickness of the bone affected if this should be the main support of the limb in amputation or excision of the affected part of bone. III. Simple serous or synovial Cysts, and those containing hydatids, are occasionally developed in bone ; causing it to form a tumour, the diagnosis of which must be exceedingly difficult, until the part has been laid open by operation. Mr. Keate treated a case suc- cessfully by removing as much as possible of the cysts, and of the bone containing them, and applying a solution of sulphate of copper to the diseased surface.f IV. Cancer appears to have a peculiar predilection for the bones; since not only are they the fi-equent seat of primary cancer, especially of soft cancer in early life, but they also frequently suffer from second- ary'' deposits, especially during the progress of cancer of the breast. In many cases, too, the entire skeleton suffers a remarkable atrophy, all the bones becoming thin, light, and breaking from muscular exertion, or from the slightest violence. The bones most frequently affected with primary cancer, are the upper jaw, lower end of the femur, and upper end of the tibia and fibula. Cancer differs somewhat in its progress, according as it is deposited in the interior or on the exterior of bone. In the former case it is usually found in circumscribed masses, which, as they increase, cause entire atrophy of the bone around, and reduce it to the thinnest possible shell, so that it breaks. When the cancer, on the contrary, is developed on the exterior, it causes considerable hypertrophy of the periosteum, and the surface of the bone sends out stalactitic branches into the tumour, just as it does when an enchondroma, or fibrous tumour, has a * Stanley, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxviii.; Breschet, Sur des Tumeurs San- guines. f Vide Mr. Keate's case, Med. Chir, Trans, vol, x.; quoted also in Mayo's Pathology; case of hydatids growing on the tibia and causing absorption of the bone and fracture, in Wickham on Diseases of Joints. See also Med. Gaz. vol. XXX. p. 990; Rokitansky, vol. iii.