454 EXAMINATION OF THE MEATUS. tympani. If artificial light is necessary, a gas or other lamp or candle, with a reflector, answers sufficiently well. When the innermost portion of the meatus is thus examined, its lining exhibits, if healthy, a " dry, pearly-white, shining appearance;" in various chronic conditions of disease it is more or less red and vas- cular, or it may become villous or granular like the granular conjunc- tiva, and secrete pus or throw off laminjE of thickened epidermis. The membrana tympani also is seen closing the passage obliquely ; of a bright semi-transparent appearance, and slightly concave externally. It is divided into two parts by the handle of the malleus, which in its perfectly healthy state is very distinctly seen, running downwards and backwards from the "short process" above to a little below the centre of the membrane. A little behind and below the end of this bone the membrane presents a brighter spot, of triangular form, due to the re- flection of the light. In morbid conditions affecting the polish or cur- vature of the membrane, this spot presents various changes. SECTION II.—AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. I. Foreign Substances in the Ear.—Children not unfre- quently poke bits of slate pencil, peas, glass beads, &c., into the pas- sage of the ear: any such body should be removed as quickly and as gently as possible, by syringing the ear with warm water. If it cannot be thus removed, it should be allowed to remain. Probably it will after a short time spontaneously fall out, or a repetition of the syring- ing, at short intervals, may be successful. The meatus itself may in time enlarge, and permit its exit. Foreign bodies have remained in the meatus without permanent injury for years. Except in the case of soft fibrous bodies, or substances lying just at the entrance of the pas- sage, therefore, other instruments, which seldom succeed and almost invariably do harm, should not be used. In any case the surgeon should make certain, by an examination with the speculum, that there is a foreign body present, before he begins poking instruments into the ear, remembering that a late eminent hospital surgeon is said to have dragged out the stapes whilst fishing for a small nail, which was not in the ear after all. II, Accumulation op Wax, mixed with hair and cuticle, is a common cause of deafness. Syringing the ear gently with warm water is an effectual mode of dislodging it. Syringing, however, is not always to be done with impunity, for if the membrana tympani be in- flamed or dry, and the passage devoid of wax, great irritation may be induced by a jet of water, especially if it be forcibly injected. The con- dition of the membrane, therefore, ought to be previously ascei'tained by an examination with the speculum ; avoiding the too common prac- tice of using a probe without first ascertaining the cause of deafness. A little cotton should be inserted into the concha after syringing. The water used should be quite warm enough to be comfortable, and the syringe should hold one or two ounces; its piston should work easily