523 BROKCHOCELE. is, one peculiarly belonging to certain places; amongst which may be mentioned Derbyshire, Nottingham, and the chalky parts of England generally ; and various Alpine and mountainous districts, especially the Tyrol and valley of the Rhone. The use of melted snow; or of water impregnated with calcareous or earthy particles, to which the inhabitants of all those places are more or less habituated, although not perhaps the in- variable cause, is the most probable that can be assigned.* Most persons who are sub- ject to it always find it increase when their health and strength are lowered ; and in coun- tries where it is en- demic, it is closely as- sociated with cretinism and idiocy. Therefore it is to be looked on as a disease of low degenerative type, and treated accordingly. 2. The exophthalmic goitre (disease of Dr. Graves, or of Basedow, who first called attention to it,) is a combination of mal-assimilation, excited action of the heart, throbbing of the arteries, loud whirring so- called ancemic purr during the systole of heart and arteries, and in the veins, and nervous excitation, with goitre, and protruded eyeballs. This disease seems to be induced solely by causes that depress the nervous system, without any reference to air or water. The eyeballs may be returned into their place by gentle pressure with the fingers. There is no doubt but that the conditions which give rise to this variety of goitre greatly contribute to the other. Both aie most frequent in women, or in men of very nervous and hysterical character. In women, they are often associated with ovarian or sexual disturbance, and with that deep colouration of the eyelids which accompanies it. Treatment.—The best remedy for the endemic bronchocele is iodine, combined with iodide of potassium to render it soluble, as in the com- pound tincture of the London Pharmacopoeia, and given in such doses as not to cause pain or disorder of the stomach or the general health. (F. 88.) A lotion of iodine with iodide of potassium, may also be applied to the tumour ; but it must be remembered that the swelling generally enlarges, instead of decreasing, if the skin be ii-ritated. The patient, if possible, should remove from a district in which the malady is prevalent, and should drink boiled or distilled water. A residence on * Capt. Alexander Gerard, in his account of Korrawur in the Himalayas, says, that "although the Korrawurrees can get nothing but snow for some months in the year, they are not so subject to goitres as the people that live in the damp grounds in the forest at the foot of the hills, where there can never be any snow water."