CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. 211 1. Of the Skin.—Loss of hair from the scalp, eyebrows, and lids, is very common as an early, and transformation of the nails into scaly masses, with perhaps deep ulceration round their root, as a late symptom. Syphilitic Eruptions vary in degree from the slightest discolour- ation to the most inveterate ulcers. 1. In the mildest form, the skin is mottled and stained in irregular patches of a brownish-red colour, which are caused by a slight swelling and vascular injection. A greater degree of the same derangement will produce syphilitic psoriasis, in which the skin is raised in copper-coloured blotches, covered with scales of hypertrophied cuticle. Or there may be an eruption oipapula; or pimples, varying in size from a pin's head to a pea, or an eczematous state; surface red, shiny, and oozing. These eruptions are succeeded mei'ely by scabs or exfoliations of the cuticle. Or there may be a copper-coloured mottling of the skin around the abundant pimples of acne on the back, breast, and shoulders. 2. Scaly Eruption {Lepra syphilitica) is an aggravated variety of the preceding. It begins with an eruption of copper-coloured blotches, which become covered with scales of enlarged cuticle ; these are suc- ceeded by scabs, and, when they fall off, by shallow ulcers with copper- coloui'ed edges. 3. Vesicular Eruption {Rupid). Large flattened bullae, filled with serum, which gradually become purulent, and finally dry into scabs, under which the skin is ulcerated. The ulcers spread under the scabs, and the latter become remarkably thick from successive additions, so as to resemble oyster, or limpet shells. 4. Pustular Eruption {Ecthyma). Large pustules, prominent or flat, with a copper-coloured base, leading to ulcers. 5. Tubercular Eruption. Broad, red, copper-coloured tubercles, forming most frequently at the alae of the nose, or on the cheeks. They gradually suppurate, and are succeeded by deep irregular ulcers, terminating in puckered cicatrices, and belong to the class of cachectic sequel 03. II. Of MtJCOUS Membrane.—Mucous Tubercles {Tubercle Mu- queux, Pustule Plat, Condyloma) consist of thickened patches of skin, * This cut exhibits the crusts of rupia. From a cast in the King's College Museum.