AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 773 flesh on one side of the limb is destroyed by disease or injury, the end of the stump may be covered with a flap taken almost entirely from the sound side, and greater length of limb may be preserved. But it is generally admitted that the circular produces better stumps. The surgeon must be careful to have skin enough to cover the flesh, and flesh enough to cover the bone. If the bone is inclined to project it should be shortened at once ; and the same with muscle or tendon, and especially with nerves, which should always be cut shoi^t if they project. Mr. Teale, of Leeds,* declares that the mortality after amputations of the thigh and leg is nearly one in three ; and that the stumps of those who escape are generally unsatisfactory, and unable to bear pressure. In order to diminish the mortality, and produce a more useful stump, he proposes to amputate by means of a long and a short rectangular flap. (See pp. 776, 781.) The long flap is to be formed out of such parts as do not contain the principal blood-vessels and nerves, and is to be long enough to fall easily over the end of the bone. Its length and breadth are equal to half the circumference of the limb: it is there- fore a perfect square. The short flap is one-fourth its length. The long flap is folded over the end of the bone, and united by suture, as shown at p. 776. No dressing is used by Mr. Teale ; and he orders the stump not to be lifted for many days. He believes the advantages of his plan to be, that tension is avoided by the ample size of the long flap; that this, folding over the end of the bone, soon acquires organic union with it, and seals up its veins; that the limb is not disturbed by lifting and dressing, and the veins consequently are early closed ; and that the end of the bone is covered by parts free from large vessels and nerves, and that the cicatrix does not adhere to it. In this, as in all other operations, we suppose the patient to be under the influence of chloroform ; unless there is some rare and special reason to the contrary. Amputation of the thigh. 1. Circular Method.—The surgeon stands on the outer side, and uses his left hand to grasp and steady the part which he is to amputate. The artery must be compressed by one of the methods before described, and an assistant must grasp the limb with both hands, so as to draw up the skin as high as possible. Then the surgeon commences by putting his arm under the limb, and makes an incision at one sweep, completely round the limb, through skin and fat down to the fascia. The knife of course cuts from heel to point. The assistant is now to draw the skin further up, the retraction being aided by a few touches with the knife ; and then the knife, being put close to the edge of the retracted skin, is to be made to divide everything down to the bone by another clean circular sweep. The next thing is, to separate the muscles from the bone for another inch or two with the point of a knife, especially those most intimately connected with the bone ; and then the periosteum having been divided by one more sweep, the muscles are to be well drawn up from the bone, either by the hands * On Amputation by a long and a shoit Rectangular Flap, Lend., 1858.