217 TREATMENT OF CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. may be given. The experiments of M. Melsens, showing the fact that mercury and other metallic substances may long continue in the body in combination with the tissues, and that they may be dissolved out and eliminated through the kidneys by means of the iodide of potas- sium, furnish a good explanation of the modus operandi of this medi- cine, in all cases in which mercury has been administered to excess.* Change of air, and especially removal from^ the venereal wards of an hospital, are indispensable.f 4, Eczema mercuriale [Eczema ruWum, Erythema mercuriale, hy- drargyria), a disease now unknown and depending on abuse of mer- curial frictions, consists of patches of redness and inflammation, which appear first on the groins, axillae, and flexures of the limbs, and then spread over the trunk. 'J'hese patches are covered with minute vesicles, which soon burst, discharging a thin acrimonious fluid, and leaving the surface excoriated, and exceedingly painful and tender. The discharge often becomes profuse and fetid, and the affected parts much swollen and fissured. It genei'ally lasts for ten days, but may remain for many weeks.J Treatment.—Warm bathing ; fomentations of decoction of poppies, camomiles, or bran ; aperients, diaphoretics, and opiates, during the early stages; subsequently, bark or sarsaparilla, and the mineral acids. Dr. CoUes has described another and less se- vere form of eruption, which resembles the itch, except that the inter- vals between the fingers are free from it. The treatment is the same. 5. Erethismus mercurialis consists in an impoverished state of blood, and want of nourishment of the heart and brain. The symptoms are great depression; anxiety about the prascordia, dyspnoea, frequent sigh- ing, weak and tumultuous action of the heart;—frequent sense of suf- focation, disturbed sleep, and faintness upon any exertion, which faint- ness might prove fatal. In a case which the writer lately treated, calomel fumigation had been continued for eleven weeks, in order to get rid of an indurated cicatrix, and to prevent secondary symptoms; spite of which, the cicatrix continued indurated, and psoriasis had ap- peared when the writer saw the patient, a fortnight after the discon- tinuance of the mercury. The symptoms were anaemia, intense debi- lity, sleeplessness, night sweats, copious urine, great nervousness, palpitations on the slightest exertion, and entire impotence. This case shows that the calomel fumigation is capable of doing as much mischief as mercury in any other form, and that it is unwise to push mercury as a preverdive of future symptoms. If used judiciously it will relieve such manifestations of syphilis as exist, but cannot always be expected to eradicate the diathesis at once. Treatment.—Removal to a fresh atmosphere; stimulants ; tonics ; and nourishment; espe- * See Dr. W. Budd's Translation of the Essay of M. Melsens, in the Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., Jan. 1853. f Dr. Macleod relates two cases of coma following the sudden cessation of salivation; one fatal; the other cured by reproducing it. Lond. Med. and Fhys. Jour. vol. Ivi. p. 231. t One variety, hydrargyria maligna, now almost unknown, is attended with typhoid-like fever. Eight out of fourteen cases died. Alley on Hydrar- gyria, Lond.1810.