751 THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. V. The Brachial Artery runs obliquely down the inner side of the humerus, to the middle of the bend of the elbow; it runs along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps respectively, which muscles successively overlap it a little, and form the best guides to it. Jts pulsations may be felt along the whole of its course, and it is covered only by skin and fascia, though from the thickness of these the ope- rator may not find it so superficial as he may imagine it to be. It is accompanied by two vense comites, wiiose numerous branches encircle it; and by the median nerve, which first lies on its outer side, between it and the coraco-brachialis, then crosses over it, so as to be quite internal to it at the elbow, where both become covered by the semi- lunar fascia of the biceps. There are several irregularities not very unusual, which the surgeon should be prepared for. The median nerve may run parallel with the artery, over it, under it, or on the outer side. The internal cutaneous nerve, instead of being superficial, may be deep ; and the basilic vein which lies beneath the skin, over and paj-allel with the artery, in its lower third, may ascend superficially up the arm. The radial artery may arise from the upper third of the brachial, or even from the axillary. The ulnar may also have a high origin, and run either super- ficially or deeply to the wrist. The siime may happen to the inter- osseous artery. To tie the brachial in its upper third.—The limb is to be drawn from the side and supinated. The surgeon makes out the coraco- brachiahs muscle, endeavours to ascertain tlie course of the basilic vein, and to feel the pulsation of the artery. Then he makes, carefully, an incision three inches in length over the artery, recollecting that the skin is here very thin, and taking care not to cut the internal cutaneous nerve. The fascia should next be divided to the same extent; and under it pi-ohably the basilic vein will be found, to the inner side of the artery. Now the fore-arm may be bent to relax the parts, and the coraco-brachialis be drawn outwards. Any veins or nerves in the way may be drawn aside with a blunt hook ; the sheath of the artery be opened, and the median nerve which comes into sight be drawn out-