173 ENTOZOA AND PARASITES, " is contained either singly or in numbers in the interior of a cavity, lined with an organized false membrane, to which it has no kind of ad- hesion whatever, it is found of all sizes, from that of a pin's head, to that of many inches in diameter." When recent it is transparent and colourless; immersed in spirit, or in water, it becomes opaque; and flaccid from exosmosis in the former, distended Irom imbibition in the latter. The walls of the cyst are laminated, and of variable thick- ness ; it contains a perfectly limpid liquid. On its inner surface may be seen, scattered irregularly, a number of minute opaque granules, like grains of sand ; they are covered by the innermost layer of the cyst, but are detached by the slightest force, or by incipient decomposition. Each of these granules consists of a delicate mem- brane, containing a mass of echinococci, all attached by short pedicles to a central stem of granular matter, which also attaches them to the inside of the hydatid cyst. Each echinococcus consists of a rounded body of tolerably solid matter, containing numerous ovoid bodies under its outer coat, and of a head surrounded with a circle of teeth or spines, precisely resembling those of the taenia and cysticerci. These teeth are perfectly characteristic, and not easily decomposed. The echinococcus cyst is most frequently found in the liver: it may, however, occur in the bones, or in the areolar tissue ; especially about the eye, and deep amongst the muscles at the root of the neck. The outward symptoms are those of an encysted tumour, which, if punc- tured, gives exit to a clear serous or purulent offensive fluid (for the condensed sac containing the hydatids may suppurate) ; and the hydatid cysts themselves, or portions of them, will shortly protrude. The dia- gnosis in doubtful cases will be determined by finding the teeth : of the treatment little can be said beyond free incisions if supei ficial. If the cyst be deep-seated a puncture with a small trocar and canula drawing off the fluid and then injecting a solution of the iodide of potassium is the best practice. Some have used an injection of creosote and other lotions, to kill the parasites, and check putrescence.f IV. The Cysticerccs Cellulos^e is an animal of the same descrip- tion as the preceding, but larger, of the size of a pea. It has been found in the anterior chamber of the eye, the cellular tissue of the lids, the pia mater, tongue, the areolar tissue and muscles. It should, when de- tected, be removed by incision. J * The uppermost has its head protruded; the lower one shows the teeth in its inside as usual while living, and the neck a little protruding. 200 diameters. t Vide Busk in Trans, of Microscop. Society, vol. ii. p. li; Dixon, 3Ied. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxv. X See a paper by E. Canton, Lancet, 18-48, vol. ii. p. 91; Gulliver, M. C. T. vol. xxiv.; Haynes Walton on the Operative Surgeiy of the Eye, p. 502.