DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. 631 micturition, and with a dark colour of the urine owing to the admix- ture of a little blood which exudes from the ulcerating surface, and which, after the urine is passed, sinks to the bottom like coffee-grounds. The quantity of purulent deposit is increased with occasional shreds of mucous membrane, and lymph, and sometimes small clots of blood. The bladder frequently throws out flakes of lymph, which become encrusted with patches of phosphate of lime. Moreover, it becomes exceedingly thick (the common opinion is that it is hypertrophied; Mr. Hancock finds that the thickening is inflammatory); and portions of it are apt to form pouches which are soon filled with mucus, or with phosphatic calculi. Finally, disease of the kidneys ensues, and the patient dies. Treatment.—In the first place, if there is a stricture, or enlarged prostate, or stone in the bladder, proper measures should be taken for their removal or relief. In the next place, if the symptoms are at all severe, the patient should keep himself in the recumbent position as much as possible, with the pelvis elevated. Thirdly, if there is at any time a great aggravation of pain, and the strength is pretty good, a few ounces of blood may be taken by cupping on the sacrum or peri- nseum; but, as a general rule, all lowering measures are injurious. Pain and irritation are to be allayed by the hip-bath, and by enemata or suppositories of opium. Opiate plasters to the sacrum are sometimes of use. The bowels should be kept properly open by mild aperients. The diet should be nourishing, but plain; with weak brandy or gin and water, or sound sherry, for drink. Of medicines, the most useful, according to Brodie, is the root of the pareira brava. Uva ursi, buchu, Chian turpentine, cubebs, copaiba, and tinct, ferri mur. in small doses three times a day, are remedies of similar virtues. Hyoscyamus or opium, and small doses of mineral acids, if the urine is highly alkaline, may be added to any of them. The sul- phate of zinc may also be highly useful, F. 9, 181, 182, kc. Injections into the bladder are not to be thought of when there is acute inflammation of the bladder, and blood mixed with the mucus, but they are highly serviceable in chronic cases, by washing out the decomposed stinking urine and mucus. Injections of simple warm water are very useful: but very dilute nitric acid (TY\,i.—ii.—ad ^iss. aq. destil.) is of great service when the urine is highly ammoniacal. We should have a catheter with a double passage, and may throw in the water in a continuous stream by a syringe, or else may irrigate the bladder, by attaching a caoutchouc tube to each orifice of the ca- theter ; one being dipped into a basin containing the dilute acid ; the other into a receiver. Injections of the nitrate of silver have also been used : these require a catheter of very pure silver strongly gilt; those of the acid may be passed through the nickel silver instruments used in lithotrity ; or witli an elastic bottle and elastic catheter.* In the excessively painful case of ulceration of the bladder, opium * See Coulson on the Bladder, &c., 4tli edit., p. 170; G. Harley, Lectures; Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 5, 1864.