PREFACE, xiii consideration of the chemical characters of yellow tubercle is a preposterous piece of rationalisticism. In the Third Part, which treats of the effects of different kinds of injuries and causes of disease, ma}^ be recognized with pleasure the fruits of an increased knowledge of the vital properties of the tissues. More confidence is placed in the power of the tissues to recover if placed under the right conditions. The surgeon interferes less. This is evident in the Chapter on Gun-shot Wounds, where the experience of the American war is quoted, and shows a far greater propor- tion of recoveries from gun-shot fractures, with proper food and appliances, than was possible amongst the half-starved English soldiers in the Crimea. But in this Part it is the chapter on Syphilis which shows most alteration. I took particular pains in writing it. Making my mind, as far as possible, a tabula rasa, and endeavouring to forget all the doctrines which have succeeded one another during the last twenty-five years, I began at the beginning, and read Fracastorius, and Ambroise Pare, and Astruc, not omitting the chain of authors given by him, as well as the abstracts of old writers in Daniel Turner's Aphrodisiacus; then I carefully studied Benjamin Bell and John Hunter, Astley Cooper and Abernethy, Ricord and Acton, Diday, Hutchinson, Wilks, Henry Lee, Bumstead, and Marston, side by side with the cases presented to me in ordinary life. The result, im- perfect as it is, I hope will give my readers a clear and useful, as it is a thoroughly well-laboured and impartial account of the various questions afloat concerning this great pest of incontinence. Here is, I believe, a great and substan- tial progress in Surgery. The Fourth Part, which treats of injuries and diseases of the various tissues, organs, and regions, has been very much added to. New and simplified Fracture Apparatus is described. If British surgery thought it had attained finality anywhere, it was in the ligature for wounded arteries. Professor Simpson has given a lesson on this point, not unmixed with rebuke. The revival of the pre-Hunterian operation for aneurism, and the increasing application of that treatment of aneurism, ex- ternal and internal, by pressure, which we owe to Bellingham, Carte, Tufnell, and other members of the Dublin School, are shortly alluded to. Acupressure, the wire compress, flexion for aneurism, and the cure of aortic aneurism by pressure, (pp. 333, 770,) are marks of solid progress. New and safer methods of tying varicose veins are detailed. The chapter on