415 DISEASES OF THE IKIS. ears ring. Dry warmth, by means of muslin bags filled with camomile flowers, and heated on a hot plate, is a very soothing application. II. Catarrho-rheumatic Ophthalmia is a combination of in- flammation of the sclerotic with that of the conjunctiva. The symptoms of conjunctivitis, that is to say, roughness and sense of dust in the eye, muco-purulent discharge and superficial scarlet redness,—are combined with the deeper-seated, straight-lined redness, and with the zone around the cornea, and fits of nocturnal aching that characterize inflammation of the sclerotic. This disease generally occurs in broken-down consti- tutions, and is very apt to lead to onyx, and to ulceration of the cornea, and suppuration in the anterior chamber. Treatment.—Warm opiate collyria, F. 142, weak citrine ointment, and the other topical applications for conjunctival inflammation, must be used in addition to the remedies prescribed for inflammation of the sclerotic. III. Tumours of the Sclerotic i-equire caution in meddling with them, lest the cavity of the eye be opened. SECTION VIII.—affections OF THE ANTERIOR CHAMBER. I. The term Aquo-CAPSULITIS has been applied to signify inflamma- tion of the membrane of the aqueous humour. But it will be highly satisfactory to know, that as there is no such membrane, so there can be no sucli disease; and that the appearances commonly considered to denote this disease,—namely, a mottled opacity of the posterior layers of the cornea—really denote inflammation of the posterior layers of the cornea,* II. Entozoa.—The Cysticercus Cellulosce has on several occasions been found within the anterior chamber. In most of the recorded cases the patient has been the subject of one or more acute attacks of inflammation of the eye leading to opacity of the cornea. On examination a globular vesicle was discerned floating in the anterior chamber. It requires to be extracted by incision.f SECTION IX.—diseases OP THE IRIS. I. Inflammation of the Iris, or Iritis.—The iris is exceedingly liable to inflammation, which generally involves also the sclerotic, the anterior capsule of the lens, and in fact most of the deeper structures in the eyeball. Dr. Jacob has well remarked, that "The use of the term iritis has the effect of directing the practitioner's attention to the iris, which bears a great deal of inflammation without destruction to the organ, and of withdrawing it from the retina, which bears very little, without permanent injury to vision." * See a Clinical Lecture by H. Haynes Walton, on the Non-existence of Aquo-Capsulitis, Med. Times, 5tli May, 1855. •f See Mackenzie, Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxxii.; Canton, Surgical Observa- tions, Lend. 1853; Haynes Walton, Operative Ophthalmic Surgery, p. 502.