DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 616 pushed down to the stricture, and from which a lancet, B, can be made to protrude by pressure on the head, c, so as to divide the con- tracted texture. The screw D regulates the extent to which the lancet protrudes ; and a spring within the larger extremity of the instrument provides for the return of the lancet within its sheath. Mr. Fergus- son's urethrotome consists of a very long director, under cover of which a very nari'ow blade can be introduced. Another instrument consists of a sound of ordinary dimensions, ending in a narrow director. The latter is passed through the stric- ture, and then a lancet-blade can be thrust forwai ds, along a slit run- ning through the length of the director. Thus the lancet cannot get out of the proper channel. Wood's urethrotome dilator combines the properties of a dilator of the urethra with that of scarifying the stricture while stretched. The scarifications are limited in extent, and only made in the callous tissue of the stricture, which alone is put upon the stretch by the dilator. Being confined to the indurated tissue, there is less likelihood of haemor- rhage, pyaemia, or urinary extravasation, than when a free internal in- cision is made into the areolar and very vascular substance of the corpus spongiosum. Mr. Wood believes that it produces a less irregular cicatrix than the mere splitting, which might cause another stricture. By the application of a clean, straight, and limited incision, as in divid- ing a stricture of the rectum all round, this return in an aggi-avated form is less probable, and less force is required to accomplish dilatation, which is obtained in a slow and gradual manner. The instrument (see fig. p. 617) is composed of a grooved director of the size of a No. 1 catheter, which is first passed through the stricture into the bladder, as shown by a few drops of urine trickling along the groove. Over this is then passed a dilator, of the size of a No. 12 catheter, with an oval section of which the longest diameter is vertical. This terminates in a conical extremity provided with a slit below, which transmits a small urethrotome or cutting blade to the extent of a quarter of an inch, protruded by pressing upon a small thumbplate at the opposite end of the dilator tube, A stout handle projects obliquely at the end of the dilator, by which the opei ator obtains a firm and steady command over the instrument. When the conical point of the dilator is felt to be fairly held by the stricture the blade is gently protruded first on one side and then on the other of the stricture until it is felt to yield gradually to the dilator pressed firmly onward at the same time. Mr. Wood thinks this instrument safer and more under command than any other urethrotome, while it may, if desired, be used as a dilator only, 6. The operation of opening the Urkthra from the Peki- NvEUM is absolutely requisite in all cases of rupture of the urethra