21 EXUDATION AND CELL GROWTH. which consist in an increase of a natural tissue or structure; 2ndly, The changes which follow injury, and lead to repair; 3rdly, Those called inflammatory; 4thly, Those called tubercular; 5thly, Those leading to tlie establishment of various tumours more or less resembling the areolar tissue, the glandular, the epithelial, and some of the embryonic forms of these tissues. Now in all these cases, except hypertrophy, if the part affected be examined at certain stages, it will seem to be infiltrated with a material which is undergoing development. In the case of repair, the material is converted into areolar or tendinous tissue, bone, &c. In the case of inflammation, it constitutes the well-known inflammatory effusions and adhesions, and often undergoes conversion into pus. In the case of tubercle, the new material soon undergoes fatty and calcareous degene- ration, and withers into a cheesy mass. In the case of tumours, it undergoes development into a great variety of forms which are enu- merated in their place. 1. Till of late, it was taken for granted that the new matter was strictly an " effusion," or " exudation " of coagulable lymph or plastic matter from the blood ; that the new material, for example, which unites the ends of a divided tendon or broken bone, or which fills up the hollow of an ulcer, was given out from the blood-vessels, and that the cell growths found in it were developed in it. It was held that self-generated molecules in the lymph aggregated themselves into nuclei, nuclei formed cells, and cells grew and developed themselves into tissue. All this was supposed to be accomplished in, and by the forces inherent in, that spontaneously coagulating part of the liquor sanguinis com- monly called fibrine, fibrino-plastic matter, plasma, blastema, &c. 2. On the other hand, a more modern school contends, that, although the blood certainly furnishes the passive substance out of which the increased bulk of the part is formed, yet that the working element, that which is the real agent, that which undergoes development, is not anything in the liquor sanguinis, but the living molecules of the affected tissue itself—that the nuclei and cells found in plastic ma- terial—say in granulations—are not developed in an exudation sim- pliciter, but are the fruits of the growth, multiplication, and proliferation of the pre-existing cells of the part in which they are found. " The connective tissue "says a most able expositor of this doctrine,* " is most extensively distributed through the body, so that an ever-present cell and nucleus containing texture is by it provided. Not only does it, in its various modifications, constitute many special structures, as tendons, ligaments, fasciae, the cornea, vitreous body, Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord, &c., but it enters into the formation of the skin mucous serous and synovial membranes, of muscles blood and lymph vessels, of nerve centres, and of nerves. It is found also in the glands * Turner, W., M. B. Lond. The Present Aspect of the Doctrine of Cellular Pathology, Edinburgh, 1863. See Virchow's Cellular Pathology as based upon Physiological and Pathological Histology. Twenty Lectures, &c.. by Rudolph Virchow, translated by Frank Chance, M.B., Cantab. London, 1860.