TREATMENT OF FRACTUEE. 252 reunite readily by bone. For this there are three reasons. First, there is great difficulty in keeping the broken surfaces absolutely in contact; and, secondly, at perfect rest; lastly, the con- * tact of synovia, and the distension caused by its abun- dant effusion into the joint and between the broken surfaces of bone. Moreover, if portions of the skull be removed, the gap is not filled up.f Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture are three: 1. Deformity; such as bending, or shortening, or twist- ing of the injured limb. This is judged of by the eye. 2. Preternatural mobility. This is ascertained by the surgeon, who firmly but gently gi'asps the upper end of the broken bone, and moves the lower, so as to see if one end moves independently of the other, or if any part yields on pressure. 3. Crepitus; a grating noise heai-d and felt both by patient and surgeon when the broken ends are rubbed against each other. If the broken parts [are displaced, they must be drawn into their natural position, otherwise no crepitus will be detected. Of these three signs deformity is sometimes absent in fracture of the ribs, pelvis, and scapula; mo- bility and crepitus in impacted fractures, or when the bones are held firmly by muscular spasm. Crepitus is also prevented when the broken ends are separately imbedded in the adjacent soft tissues. All these signs are often absent in fractures of the skull, producing a simple fissure. In addition to these symptoms, there will be more or less pain, swelling, and helplessness of the injured part, startings and spasms of the muscles, and considerable subcutaneous ecchymosis. The causes which produce displacement after fracture are three. 1. Muscular action, which produces various degrees of bending, short- ening, or twisting, in different cases. 2. The weight of the parts below, which, for instance, causes the shoulder to sink downwards when the clavicle is broken. 3. The original violence which caused the fracture, as when the ossa nasi are driven in. Treatment,—The general indications for the treatment of fracture are, to place the fragments in their natural position ; and, having done so, to maintain them in perfect contact and at perfect rest till they have firmly united. The first thing required in fractures of the lower extremities is to carry the patient to his home, or to an hospital, gently, on a litter, with both legs tied securely together at the knee and ankle, so that there may be no chance of the broken bone being thrust through the skin. A litter may be made of a couple of poles, and a sack or horsecloth. * Fractured tibia and fibula after seven years; large callus and irregular ossi- fication. St. Mary's Museum, f See Paget's Lectures and Mayo's Pathology.