EEMARKS ON HERNIA. 564 cautious incision should be made through the abdominal parietes, over the suspected seat of the disease ; the tendon of the external oblique should be divided, so as to lay open the internal abdominal ring; and the sac if found should be drawn down, the stricture divided, and the case be then treated according to the ordinary rules.* After-treatment.—-After the hernia has been returned, a compress —a towel, for instance,—should be put on the site of the tumour, and be retained with a bandage, so as to prevent any protrusion from coughing, sneezing, or any other accidental exertion, and the patient should have a full opiate. The surgeon should not. be in haste to get the bowels to act, and should abstain from giving salts and other pur- gatives ; for as the intestine that was constricted remains for some time inflamed, weakened, and incapable of pi'opelling its contents, they would but irritate it uselessly. Castor-oil and laudanum may be resorted to after twelve or twenty-four hours. Tenderness, pain, and other in- flammatory symptoms may be allayed by leeching, fomentations, and opium. Free exit should be afforded to pus. A truss should be ap- plied before the patient gets up again. Mr. Wood suggests that in cases in which this operation is done, and there appears to be little or no active inflammation or disorganization of the parts, a silver-wire suture may be put into the sides of the hernial opening, so as to effect a radical cure of the hernia. Such a proceeding will scarcely increase the risks of inflammation, since this, when dangerous, affects the bowel itself which has been strangulated, and is of little importance in the parietes of the sac. SECTION V.—REMARKS UPON THE DIAGNOSIS AND COMPLICATIONS OF HERNIA. We may I'emark that hernia is a malady extremely common in every rank of life, and one for which the practitioner should never fail to make inquiry, in cases of disturbance of the abdominal viscera. 1. The patient may not he aware that he has a hernia, or if aware of it. may think it of no consequence, or may be deterred by mauvaise honte from mentioning it. For example, an elderly clergyman of eminence consulted the writer a few years since, respecting various dyspeptic symptoms ; nausea, loss of appetite, and painful sensation of dragging at the stomach, and in-egularity of the bowels. When ohked if he was ruptured, he said, that he had never thought it worth men- tioning-, but that whilst preaching, some time ago, he had felt some- thing come down into the scrotum. He had in reality a large double scrotal rupture, which was the cause of his dyspepsia. But it is more particularly when a patient is affected with vomiting and constipation, especially if the face is pinched and anxious, that the surgeon should inquire for, or rather should examine for himself, the ordinary seats of hernia, such as the inguinal and femoral rings and the * Luke, Med. Chir. Trans., and Med. Gaz., 5th May, 1843 ; Report of discus- sion on a paper by Mr. Birkett, at Med. Chir. Soc, Med. Times, June 25, 1859.