403 SCROFULOUS OPHTHALMIA. juDctiva, but a little line of vascularity running towards the cornea, and terminating at one or more phlyotenulce, or small opaque pimples (or sometimes pustules) at the margin of the cornea. This, like other scro- fulous diseases, is extremely obstinate, and liable to recur frequently. Treatment.—The first and chief point is to look after the general health, and especially to use moderate but effectual purgation, till the bowels are emptied, and their secretions rendered healthy. Three or four doses of calomel at bedtime, on alternate nights, with rhubarb and soda, or rhubarb and polychrest salt, F. 37, in the morning, will generally relieve the intolerance of light quickly; and when the tongue is cleaning, and feverishness has subsided, recourse must be had to tonics, cod-liver oil, and to the other general remedies directed for scrofula. Quinine is particularly recommended by Mackenzie, and a combination of quinine with sulphate of iron (F. 16, &c.) by Mr. Walton. Pure air. is essential. Secondly. Various applications are recommended to relieve the distressing intolerance of light, such as cold lotions applied to the outside of the eye, and to the forehead and tem- ples ; or water to which a little vinegar or spirit, or nitric jether, has been added; or the white of egg curdled with alum, or warm poultices, or dec. papav. vel anthemid,, or exposing the eye to the vapour of wai m water, or to the vapour of laudanum or sp. camph., which may be put into a teacup and be held in warm water; but belladonna, F. 149, applied round the eye is the most efficacious, and small doses of extract of conium internally. Both eyes should be protected by a shade. Thirdly, in the advanced stage of the disease, benefit may be derived from dropping in a few drops of dilute vin. opii or lotion of nitrate of silver (gr. i. ad ^^i.) once a day, and especially from the application of dilute citrine ointment to the edges of the hds at bedtime. VII. Granular Conjunctiva signifies a thick, rough, fleshy state of that membrane (especially of that part of it which lines the eyelids), and is a frequent consequence of severe and long-continued ophthalmia, or probably of treatment by applications of too irritating a kind. It causes great pain and disturbance to the motions of the eye, and, if it continues, will render the cornea opaque by its friction. Treatment.—The directions generally given are, that the thickened part should be scarified; that, after one or two days, it should be touched with lunar caustic or sulphate of copper, that the scarification and caustic should be repeated alternately at intervals of two or three days, and that, if these measures prove fruitless, the thinnest possible layer of the granular surface should be shaved off with a fine knife or scissors. But it is a sounder plan of treatment to use counter-irrita- tion on the outside of the eyelids, and improvement of the general health by tonics and change of air ; and to discard any local applica- tion that causes pain or uneasiness, especially if this state of con- junctiva follows an attack of inflammation that has been freely treated by caustic. When the malady is idiopathic, the system is, according to Mr. Walton, much below par, and requires tonics. It is the complaint of the poor Irish.