202 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. summit. At this period the areola, which had increased, begins to fade, but the subjacent tissues become infiltrated. After the sixth day, if the cuticle and the dried pus which adheres to it be removed, there is found an ulcer; its depth equal to the whole thickness of the true skin, its edges seeming as if cleanly cut out with a punch; its surface covered with a grayish pultaceous matter.* The discharge is purulent; the sore is often painful; and attended with inflammatory swelling, which gradually fades into the sound tissues, and is not very hard rmless caustic has been used. It is tedious, lasting from three weeks to three months, and occasionally attended with bubo ; which doubtless arises from absorption of poison- ous matter, and is sure to suppurate, and after suppuration to leave an ulcer with the characters of the original sore. The great test, as M. Ricord showed, of the nature of this disease is, that the pus from the original sore, or from the centre of a suppura- ting bubo, if inoculated, produces an ulcer as already described. If this be done by way of diagnosis—a thing not to be advised—the sore should be destroyed by nitric acid, so soon as its nature is developed. Treatment.—This ulcer is serious enough, although it does not lead to secondary symptoms. The first point is to insure rest in bed ; then, if possible, to destroy the ulcer by concentrated nitric acid. The way is, to dry the ulcer with a bit of cotton wool, and immediately apply a bit of stick the size of a lucifer match, dipped into the acid, so as to destroy the surface, wiping off any excess. If, when the eschar falls, the ulcerative process seems inclined to return, the acid may be repeated. The most favourable conditions for cauterization are, if the ulcer be under six days old, uninflamed, and at the edge of the pre- puce where it can easily be got at. Not so if the sore is of some dura- tion, large, inflamed, and close to the orifice of the urethra. Such cases are left to time, and the application of mild antiseptic lotions on lint, F. 125, 131, 132. An ulcer should not be allowed to touch a sound surface. Rest, aperients, moderate diet, and anodynes, to allay irritation and erection at night, F. 30, 31, are essential. SECTION IV.—INFLAMED SLOUGHING, PHAGEDENIC AND SERPIGI- NOUS VENEREAL SORES. 1. Sloughing, from acute inflammation, a true inflammatory gan- grene, may affect the penis of persons who contract venereal sores, and are exposed to filth, intemperance, heat, and great local irritation, and especially if there be phymosis. There is immense swelling, sanious discharge, and sloughing of the skin where distended. The celebrated Black Lion, which affected the English troops in Portugal in the Peninsular war, was a sloughing of the penis from acute inflammation. Thus was it in a case related by Inspector-General Fergusson ;f a voung officer, four days after connection, penis enormously swelled and * ricnr \ ( p. cit, p. 89. f l'crga.>i' n, Med. Chir, Trans, vol. iv., and Guthrie, vol. viii.