OPERATIONS IN GENERAL. 704 ferent layers over a hernial sac, and in sundry other delicate operations. Secondly, before commencing an incision, the skin inust be gently stretched and steadied with the points of the fingers, otherwise it will be dragged along by the knife, and the incision will be ragged, and shorter than was intended. Thirdly, in cutting through the skin, the knife should be passed in at right angles to the surface, and should be at once carried down to the subcutaneous tissue; then the blade should be inclined downwards, and be made to cut through the skin to the requisite extent; and, lastly, as the incision is finished, the instrument must be again brought to a right angle with the surface. By these means the whole thickness of the skin will be cleanly divided, both at the beginning and end of the incision, without any " tailing of the in- cision.'' Timid operators are apt to make the incision through the skin too limited, which embarrasses their subsequent proceedings;. besides that cutting more of the skin subsequently (unless the patient is under the influence of chloroform) is very painful. In making incisions over a hernial sac, or in any place where the skin is loose, it saves time and pain to the patient to pinch up a fold of skin of a size proportionate to the length of the intended incision, to transfix it with the scalpel or bis- toury, with its edge directed upwards, i.e., from the patient, and to cut straight to the surface. By this means a straighter and more even in- cision is made down to the fascia, with great ease and expedition. When two incisions are to be made to meet near their extremities (as, for example, the two semi-elliptical incisions in amputation of the breast), the second should fall into the first nearly, but not quite at its extremity, so that there may be no little isthmus of skin left undivided between them ; again, in making a V incision, the second cut should not be begun where the first terminated, but at its other end; that is to say, it should be made towards the first, and not from it. In making a T in- cision likewise, the transverse cut should be made first, and the other be directed towards it. Lastly, the angle of a V incision should, if possible, be always dependent. III. Preparation.—The object is to get every organ and function in as healthy and tranquil a state as possible, by regular diet and aperients, with or without tonics or sedatives, till the pulse has become quiet, the tongue clean, and the bowels regular, the liver, kidneys, and skin in good order, and the mind cheerful. IV. The After-treatment should be conducted so as to wai-d off the most probable sources of danger—whether sinking from shock, or from loss of blood, or the occuri-ence of unhealthy changes in the surface of the wound and in the fluids exuded thereby, such as give rise to the various kinds of inflammation, phlebitis, erysipelas, diffused inflammations, and pyaemia. In the observations we have made on incised wounds, we have shown how important it is that the patient should be supplied with beef-tea, and solid nourishment, and with wine in sufficient quantity to maintain a healthy state of blood; and that he should be kept quiet. The late Mr, Copeland is said always to have given his patients half a grain of opium evei-y five or six hours