108 CARTILAGINOUS TUMOUR. Chemically it consists for the most part of phosphate of lime, and of a peculiar variety of gelatine, called chondrine, which is extracted by boiling in water from the temporary cartilage of the foetus, and from the permanent cartilage of the adult, but not from the adult bone or tendon. It diifers from common gelatine, in contain- ing less oxygen, and in being precipitable by alum, acetate of lead, and sulphate of iron. In external character, cartilaginous tu- mours are firm and smooth, usually some- what nodulated, sometimes hard, some- times so soft as to be mistaken for cysts. Their usual situation is on or within the bones, particularly those of the hands ; and they may be developed either within the bones, which they then cause to expand into a thin shell, or else from their surface, beneath the periosteum ; in which case they usually have, like other tumours in the same situation, a skeleton of • light papery plates, and spicula of bone shooting throughout their sub- stance, as represented in the next cut. Or they may become ossified, from internal independent centres of ossification. But besides the bones, enchondroma may form in the glands, as the testicle, mammary, and particularly the parotid. It may form isolated moveable tumours in the subcutaneous tissue, and may be found in the lungs. It may likewise be combined with the fibrous, fibro- plastic, colloid, and cystic growths, or with cancer. The growth of cartilaginous tumours is usually slow; but this is subject to great variety. Thus, in one case, related by Mr. Frogley, a tumour of this sort, growing upon the femur, attained the circumference of three feet in five years; another, twenty inches in eleven years; another, mentioned by Mr. Paget, acquired the circumference of a man's chest in three months from the time when it was first noticed. The articular sur- faces in the neighbourhood are not affected, nor is there any adhesion or infiltration of other tissues. But, after an uncertain time, the cartilaginous tumour may undergo fatty or earthy degeneration, as in the case of a small nodule the size of a walnut, removed by Mr. Wal- ton from the subcutaneous tissue of the forehead, in which the writer found half the tumour degenerated into a yellow, cheesy mass. More- over, the hyaline substance may soften down into a stufJ" like pease soup, as in another specimen from the vicinity of the parotid which Mr. Walton sent to the author, and which was converted into a mass of cysts, with fresh lobules of cartilage growing into them. Such cysts may ulcerate and discharge their contents, giving rise to great constitutional irritation and exhaustion. * Enchondroma of the hand. From a cast in the King's College Museuna.