532 PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. sible, so that the blood may coagulate in the wound, and the coagulum become adherent and organised. XII. Deformity of the chest and spine is an almost inevitable consequence of severe pleurisy, or of empyema. The lung, compressed by pleuritic fluid, or bound down by adhesions, cannot expand again in the act of respiration, and the side of the chest falls in to accom- modate itself to the crippled lung. These cases will be known by their history ; by the fact that the deformity was preceded by en- largement ; and by the deficient respiratory sounds which will be de- tected by auscultation. Mechanical appliances are of very question- able utility; but the writer has seen abundance of cases, in which, if the patient were young, and the disease not too severe and long-con- tinued, great flattening and deformity have been completely recovered from by the unaided efforts of nature. CHAPTER XVII. INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN, AND SURGICAL OPERATIONS. I. Paracentesis Abdominis, an operation much better called by the Anglo-Saxon term tapping, is required in ascites, and in ovarian dropsy, when the abdomen becomes so distended that the breathing and the circulation of the lower extremities are seriously impeded. Diagnosis.—In the first place, ascites may be known by the abdo- men being equably enlarged and fluctuating, not feeling harder at one part than at another ; whilst in ovarian dropsy, the swelling probably fluctuates less distinctly, for it may be composed of distinct cysts, some of which feel more distended than others. If, however, the ovarian tumour consists of a single thin-walled cyst, this diagnostic mark will be absent. A second means of distinguishing the two affec- tions is afforded by percussion. In ascites, the bowels, as they contain air, float up thi'ough the f^luid; and, in whatever position the patient may be placed, they tend to occupy the uppermost part, and the fluid the lowest; and a clear sound may be elicited by percussion over the bowels, but a dull sound over the fluid. Thus, if the patient be placed on his back, a clear sound will be produced over the anterior surface of the abdominal parietes, but a dull sound towards the sides and back. In ovarian dropsy, on the contrary, the abdomen is distended by a tumour, which occupies its front part, the bowels being behind and on either side of it. Consequently, when the patient lies on her back, per- cussion of the anterior surface pi'oduces a dull sound ; whilst a clear sound may be produced towards the back part and sides. Yet if the quantity of ascitic fluid be very large, and the abdomen be so distended that the mesentery does not allow the bowels to float up and entirely reach the anterior wall, it must be evident that this diagnostic mark may be far less palpable. Even in this case, however, the croaking of