596 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. quantity; and may never occur again. This form is rare. But far more frequently it proceeds from the vascular surface of internal piles,' which gives way under the straining which accompanies defsecation. In the latter case the blood is arterial; it is squirted from the anus in jets when the patient is straining at the water-closet, and the bleeding occurs very frequently, especially when the patient is feverish, or the bowels disordered, or the piles inflamed. Haemorrhage from the rec- tum may be distinguished from that which has its source higher up by noticing that the blood is generally of a florid hue, and that it covei's the fjeces, but is not intimately mixed with them. Treatment.—1. If the hsemoi'rhage is moderate in quantity, if it has been of habitual or periodic occurrence, if it induces no weakness, and if it brings relief to pain in the head or any other feeling of dis- order, before suppressing it the patient must be made to adopt a course of exercise, temperance, and aperient medicine. 2. But if the patient is weak and emaciated ; if the lips are pale, and the pulse feeble, the bleeding should be at once suppi'essed. (We may observe here, that whenever a patient applies for relief in consequence of violent palpi- tations and shortness of breathing, or giddiness and swimming in the head—if the lips are pale, and the extremities tend to swell—the sur- geon should always inquire for piles, because, as we before observed, some patients, through false delicacy, will not mention them.) Or if the bleeding, as sometimes happens, instead of relieving symptoms of heat and fulness in the rectum, aggravates them, it should be stopped, whatever the patient's complexion may be ; and if he is of a full habit, he should live abstemiously, and keep the bowels open. The means of checking hajmorrhage from the rectum are, 1. That piles, if any exist, should be tied or cauterized with the aid of a clamp. This is the remedy—direct and surgical. 2. Astringent applications, such as in- jections of dec, quercus, or F. 128. 3. The internal remedies most likely to be of service are salts of iron or bark with sulphuric acid, or the balsams of copaiba and Peru. F. 9, 13, 14, 186, &c. 4. In order to stanch violent bleeding, the anus may be distended with a specu- lum, and any bleeding vessel be tied, or touched with a heated wire. Or the anus may be plugged.* IX. Discharge of Mucus—clear and viscid—without faecal odour, may be caused by piles, ascarides, the use of aloes, or any other causes of irritation to the rectum. To be treated by mild aperients, astrin- gent injections, and copaiba or cubebs. F. 37, 39, 13, &c. * In severe bleeding, occurring after an operation on the rectum, after the failure of more ordinary means, a plug of the following description may be used. A good-sized conical cork, with a string passed through its centre, is to be placed in the rectum, then graduated circular pieces of lint penetrated by the string must follow : two or three pieces of lint can be passed at a time, and the entire number must be suflBcient to form a good-sized conical plug, which is prevented from floating about in the rectum by traction on the string. Firm pressure over a large space can be obtained by the adoption of this method. For this note, the author is indebted to Mr. Sharman, some lime of St. Mark's Hospital, now of the London Hospital.