ABDOMINAL SECTION. 547 order to enlarge the lower one, and repress the septum, as proposed b}' Dessault. As a last resource, a small portion of the septum may be nipped and strangulated by the forceps, or enterotome invented by Dupuytren for that purpose. VII. Abdominal Section.—There is a class of cases of obstruc- tion of the intestines, in which it is found, after death, that the mis- chief has been done by some one little band of lymph, the consequence of inflammation, and that if this could have been found and severed, the patient might have had at least a chance of recovery. Intestinal obstruction may, however, aiise from many other causes such as, ist, ileus, or obstinate spasm ; 2ndly, impaction of accumu- lated fasces, or, pei'haps, of a large gall-stone, or intestinal concretion, as of chalk or magnesia, taken incautiously as medicines; 3rd]y, solid growths within the intestine ; 4thly, tumours pressing upon it from without; 5thly, stricture of the intestine; 6thly, invagination or in- tussusception, or the slipping of one portion into, and constriction by, another. This condition is rarely recognized in time, and is often mis- taken for dysentery, and the writer believes that many children die of it, without the true cause being known. The child is ill, probably vomits ; is evidently in pain in the bowels, and usually passes the con- tents of the lower bowels mixed with moi-e or less blood ; afterwards blood alone. Jl ost probably the parents send for medicine, and possibly get a powder containing some purgative, which makes the case worse or hopeless. The symptoms of strangulation continue; and if the patient survive long enough, there is a discharge of fetid bloody serum oozed out by the strangled bowel, and possibly a portion of bowel may be * Invagination of the intestine, from nature, by Dr. Westmacott. A large coil of the small intestines, including the caput coli, has been engulphed within the ascending colon. The vermiform appendage is seen projecting out ; and through an aperture, made artificially, the black and almost gangi'enous intes- tine is seen strangled within.