709 ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. had neglected his business, and injured his health by the excitement of liis discovery, was left with his pockets erapt}^ and even the bare honour of the invention almost wrested from him.* From America the news of the discovery was conveyed to England in a communication from Dr. Bigelow, of Boston, to Dr. Francis Boott, and it was received most cordially.f On the 21st of December, 1846, Mr. Liston tried the ether with the best possible results in a case of amputation of the thigh, and in one of evulsion of the toe-nail. On the 31st, the writer was present when Mr. Fergusson used it in the King's College Hospital, and in less than a fortnight it was tried by almost every surgeon in the kingdom ; whilst the medical periodicals for a long time were crowded with fresh instances of its powers in alleviating suffering, and with descriptions of various apparatus for administering tlie vapour. It was employed in every variety of surgical operation, fiom the Cfesarian section, in which it was used by Mr. Skey, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, on the 25th of January, 1847, down to tooth" drawing ; and in all kinds of painful examination or manipulation : it was used in cases of strangulated hernia and of dislocation, and in the obstetric operation of turning, in order to diminish the resistance of the muscles; in various cases of painful and spasmodic affections, such as tetanus, neuralgia, and spasmodic asthma; it was employed to tranquillize the insane, to detect feigned disease, and to diminish the sufferings incidental to parturition. It was used too on infants, on the aged, and on animals. Its mod>is operandi closely resembles that of chloroform ; what differences exist, shall be described further on. Chloroform.—Brilliant as w\as the career of the ether discovery, it was destined soon to be eclipsed. Ether, whose chemical symbol is C4H5O, is one of a numerous class of bodies, all composed of hydrogen and carbon, with variable proportions of oxygen or some other electro- negative. Dr. J. Y. Simpson, of Edinburgh, believing that amongst these bodies some might be found equal or superior to ether, made many experiments on himself and friends with chloride of hydrocarbon, acetone, nitrous ether, and other analogous substances, and at last, on the 4th of November, 1847, in company with Dr. Keith and D]-. Matthews Duncan, found in a heavyish liquid that had been put by and almost foi-gotten, an agent which was manifestly superior to ether in its narcotizing virtues, and immeasurably more pleasant. This was chloroform. It had been investigated some time before by Dr. Glover, and it was recommended to Dr. Simpson by Mr. Waldie of Liverpool ; moreover, inhalation of the fumes of that solution of it in alcohol which ]s known by the name of chloric ether had been tried some time before by Mr. Jacob Bell; but undoubtedly the merit of establishing the an- aesthetic power of chloi oform, as a matter-of-fact, belongs to Dr. Sirap- * See a Eeport of the Trustees of the Massachusetts General Hospital, with a History of the Ether Discovery, in Littell's Living Age, Boston, 18th March, 1848. f Vide Lancet, January 2, 184T, and all the medical periodicals of that year, passim.