APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 832 opinion, that it is more safe and efficacious than the Liquor potassce arsenitis, or Fowler's solution. R, Liquoris potassse arsenitis tY\xx.—xxx. ; syrupi f3iij. ; tincturae cardamomi f3iij. ; aquae destillatse f^vss. Misce. Dosis f^j. ter die, statim post cibum.* j § IV. Emetics. 98. Relaxing Emetics. R. Antimonii tartarizati gr. iij. ; aquae destillatse f^iij. Misce, sumatur cochleare magnum frequenter, donee vomitus supervenerit. R. Antimonii tartarizati gr. j. ; ipecacuanhse ^j. Misce, fiat pulvis. 99. Warm Emetics. R. Pulveris ipecacuanhse, ammonise sesquicarbonatis aa ^j* spiri- tiis lavandulse compositi V(\x.; aquse f^j. Misce, tiat haustus. Bibat aeger postea infusi anthemidis tepidi octarium. In the incipient stage of Erysipelas, Fever, ^c. R. Farinae sinapeos vulgaris cochleare magnum; salis vulgaris cochleare ; aquse tepidae octarium. Misce. 100. Zinc Emetic. R, Zinci sulphatis ^ij.; aquse f'^ij. Misce^ fiat haustus. § V. Enemata. 101. Opiate Enema, R, Decocti amyli f^iv. ; tincturse opii f5ss.—3j. Misce. (^Pharm. Lond.) Opiate Suppository. R. Pulveris opii gr. j.—iv. ; cetacei (vel sevi, i. e. tallow) gr. xx. ; misce. * Mr. Hunt, who has had probably greater experience in the use of arsenic than any other man living, gives the following rules for its administration. " It should never be given when there is any feverishness; never on an empty stomach; never in increasing doses, the largest dose ever required being Tn\ v. of Fowler's solution three times a day. The first effect to be loolsed for is an itching or smarting of the conjunctiva, and swelling and puiiiness of the lower eyelid; upon which the dose should be reduced to three minims. If the con- junctiva continues much inflamed, the dose should be again reduced; but it should be kept in a tender state throughout the course. The arsenical course should be continued for as many months after the disappearance of the skin disease, as it had existed years before." See Papers by Mr. Hunt, in Lancet for 1846, and his Treatise on Diseases of the Skin, Lond. 1847.