EUSTACHIAN TUBES. 465 he will of course hear nothing. Yet he must recollect tliat some patients cannot acquire the l^nack of inflating their tympanum, and it must not be too hastily assumed that they ai-e impervious. Of the severer forms of inflammation of the tympanic cavity we have already spoken. Treatment.—The general health must be braced by bark, steel, cod- liver oil, and other tonics (F, 87, 65, &c.) ; and the relaxed mucous membrane, by gargles, of which the author can recommend the sul- phate and chloride of zinc (F. 109), most strongly, and by creosote in- halation ; and repeated blisters may be applied behind the ears. It has been proposed that the tonsils and uvula should be extirpated in these cases. But although it may be justiflable to remove a superficial slice of enlarged tonsils, on other grounds, yet it is now amply proved, that enlargement of the tonsils by itself is not a cause of deafness ; and, n fortiori, that the cutting out of healthy tonsils cannot improve the hearing: besides that, there is good reason for believing, that this mu- tilation rashly performed, may have the most disastrous consequences on the voice, on the general health,, and, as Mr. Harvey believes, on the proper development of the generative organs. See Chap. XV. The operation of catheterism of the Eustachian tubes, for the purpose of dilating them, or of injecting warm water or air, or medicated liquids or vapours into the cavity of the tympanum, has also been much advocated. But the author cannot recommend these operations for general adoption; first, because they are painful, and because he believes they very seldom, if ever, do any real good; and secondly, because they are dangerous, and have proved fatal in more instances than one. When it is considered that in some cases the bony partition between the Eustachian tube and the carotid canal is almost entirely absorbed, and that in others there is but the thinnest shell of bone, or perhaps only a mere membrane between the tympanic cavity, or mastoid cells, and the cavity of the cranium or jugular fossa (all of which morbid changes the author has seen in Mr. Toynbee's collection), it will be readily understood how the pokings in the dark at the Eustachian tube, and forcible injections of the tympanum that we read of, may have very easily pioduced ftital results. Possibly the reason more mischief has not been done, is, that the catheter has been poked somewhere, but not into the Eustachian tube. Perforation of the membrana tympani, which has been proposed, in order to allow the access of air to the tympanum when the natural openings in the throat are obliterated, is another operation very seldom required. An opera- tion, however, if that term can be applied to it, has been lately intro- duced by Politzer of Vienna, which as a substitute for Eustachian catheterism, produces the most admirable results. It is based upon the fact that the Eustachian tubes are opened by their muscles during the act of swallowing. Politzer employs a small india-rubber bottle to which is attached a portion of flexible bougie. This bougie is intro- duced about half an inch into the patient's nostril, which is then closed over it by the surgeon. The patient is now told to swallow