THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 431 actions, vol. xliii.; and many papers in the medical jom'nals. A lively controversy, in which everything that can be said for and against the operation, will be found in the British Medical Journal, from Sept. 26th, 1863, to June 11th, 1864; and a very able and temperate resume of the whole subject in four lectures by Mr. Soelberg Wells, on " Glaucoma and its cure by Iridectomy." Method of performing Iridectomy.—The patient having been chloro- formed, the eyelids fixed with the spring speculum, and the eye steadied by seizing the conjunctiva with a pair of forceps, an opening is made into the anterior chamber by means of a lance-shaped iridectomy knife, which should be entered about half a line from the junction ot the cornea with the sclerotic, great care being taken not to wound the lens. If the anterior chamber be very small from great bulging for- ward of the lens, it will be safer to use a narrow extraction-knife in the usual way. The aqueous humour should be evacuated very slowly, and the iris seized by a pair of fine forceps and carefully divided by the scissors dose to the ciliar;/ margin, from one-fourth to one-sixth being removed. The new pupil may be made in any direction ; but for many reasons the upward one, though slightly more difficult of performance, is the best. SECTION XIII.—THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. I. This instrument is to the eye what the stethoscope is to the chest. It has already rendered obsolete nearly all that had been written on the deep-seated diseases of the eye ; for it has been the means of detecting changes unaccompanied with any objective symptoms, and not known till quite lately to exist. Its use is quite indispensable in all cases of impaired vision, not attended with extreme intolerance of light. Very seldom indeed does a patient complain, from the use of the instrument, except in cases in which such a result might fairly be expected, and might be avoided by ordinary caution. II. The ophthalmoscope, in its simplest form, is a concave circular mirror of about ten inches focus, made of silvered glass or polished steel, and having a hole in the centre. As an appendage there is needed a convex lens an inch and a half in diameter, with a focus of from two and a half to three inches, set in a common eye-glass frame with a handle three inches long. The investis:ation must be made in a dark room. The patient's pupil should be dilated as a rule. The light of a candle is hardly sufficient, certainly not for beginners. An oil lamp is better, but by far the best is an argand burner that slides on a vertical rod. The patient sits by a table, and the lamp is placed by his side close to his head, with the flame on a level with the eye, from which it is screened by a little flat plate of metal attached to the burner. The operator sits directly in front; and, holding the instrument close to his eye, and a little obliquely to catch the light from the lamp, he com- mences at the distance of about eighteen inches from the patient, to