481 TUMOUBS OF THE JAW-BONE. the cavity, the patient was soon discharged cured.* In some cases the parietes are so thin as to crackle on pressure. III. Tumours of the Upper Jaw-bone may present themselves in very great variety. Thus, in addition to the abscess and di opsy of the antrum, there may be— 1. Hypertrophy of the bone, some part of which increases immensely in bulk without forming a circumscribed tumour. 2. Exostosis; a circumscribed tumour of bony tissue, porous, or hard and dense as ivory. 3. Enchondroma ; which is rare. 4. The Fibtv-plastic tumours of Lebert, constituting, as he observes, tumours perhaps of the consistence of firm brain; often blotched with red, and very difficult to distinguish from cancer, except by mici'oscopic examination. A specimen which the author recently saw extirpated by Professor Fergusson, and which had returned after a previous operation, was of the colour and consistence of kidney, and afFoi'ded most brilliant examples of large many-nucleated mother-ceils.—^Hee Fih^o-plastic Tumours. 5. Fibrous tumours {Osteosarcoma); dense and homogeneous ; con- taining bony spicula. 6. Encysted tumours; which, when situated within, or in front of the bone, have doubtless been more than once mistaken for enlarged antrum. Such tumours may contain glairy matter, and not seldom teeth, and probably consist of tooth capsules, unnaturally developed. 7. Cancer affects the upper jaw more frequently than it does any other bone, and constituted 10'35 cases of cancer of the bones collected by Lebert, The symptoms of any one of these growths--which may be de- veloped in the gums, peiiosteum, alveoli of the teeth, or in the cancellous substance of the bone, or in the antrum—are manifested by a tumour bulging the cheek in front ; which may increase, depress the roof of the mouth, and loosen the teeth ; protrude into the nosti il, and beneath the base of the skull into the pharynx;' lift up the floor of the orbit and displace or compress the eye ; and so, if allowed to remain, may render life odious by deformity, and at last put an end to it by inter- fering with breathing, or swallowing, or by compressing the brain. The diagnosis, which is important, is between the growths of local character, which if thoroughly extirpated, do not return, and cancer. Slowness of growth ; freedom from pain; an equable and firm con- sistence of the swelling; the skin moveable over it; ulcei'ation of any projecting part within the mouth, if it exists, superficial, not fungating nor bleeding, nor yielding a copious, thin, fetid discharge ; the tumour not affecting the general health, otherwise than by the inconvenience necessarily attached to its situation and bulk—these are the indications of a fibrous, or other non-cancerous growth. On the contrary, rapid growth, early cachexia, grinding pain, early loss of teeth, bleeding fungous growths projecting from their sockets, or into the nose or * Med. Times, 18tb May, 1850. D 2 1