644 STONE IN THE BLADDER. relief when much burning pain is complained of, but it must be used with caution. The ordinary and most favourable event of stone in the kidney is, that it descends through the ureter into the bladder. In some cases, however, it remains in the kidney, increases in size, completely fills up the pelvis and infundibula, and causes the organ either to waste away or to suppurate ; the abscess bursting either into the colon, or on the loins. The Passage of a Stone through the Ureter causes the following symptoms:—The patient complains of sudden and most sevei e pain, first in the loins and groin, subsequently in the testicle, and inside of the thigh. The testicle is also retiacted spasmodically. At the same time there are violent sickness, faintness, and collapse, which may last two or three days, and are only relieved when the stone reaches the bladder. Treatment.—The warm bath, large doses of opium, emollient ene- mata, and plenty of diluents, are the obvious remedies, and an active purgative may perhaps be tried if the process is slow. Sir B. Brodie has shown that there is a set of symptoms which sometimes affects gouty peojile—consisting of pains in the loins reach- ing to the groin and neck of the bladder, and scanty, high-coloured urine—which very much resemble those caused by the passing of a stone through the ureter. They may be distinguished by the absence of faintness and vomiting, and readily yield to purgatives and colchicum. section XI.—stone in the bladder. Stone in the Bladder produces the following symptoms : 1. Ir- ritability of the bladder, frequent irresistible desire to make water. 2. Occasional sudden stoppage of the stream of water during mictuii- tion, from the stone falling on the orifice of the urethi-a; tlie stream probably flowing again if the patient throws himself on his hands and knees. 3. Occasional pain at the neck of the bladder, always severest after micturition. 4. Pain in the glans penis. If the patient be a child, he is always attempting to alleviate this pain by pulling at the prepuce, which becomes extremely elongated. 5. Occasional passage of blood and crystals of uric acid or oxalate with the urine. 6. Sounding.—But none of the above symptoms must be depended on alone. The existence of the stone must be made sensible to the ear and fingers, and the instrument employed for this purpose is a sound, a solid iron rod, the size of a medium catheter, not large enough to distend the urethra. Its handle should be pohshed, and the E^iaft smaller than the end, so as to move easily in the urethra, and the surgeon should possess several, of various lengths. The form of sound used by Mr. Fergusson is the best. One of these instruments should be introduced at a time when the urinary organs are comparatively free from irritation, and the health from disturbance. The patient should be on his back on a high bed,