808 EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. the fatal results have, in his estimation, been about at the same average as after the operation of amputation of the tliigh. But much of the mortality^ and' the necessity for amputation, depend upon causes which surgeons in time will think it a disgrace to let patients suffer from, especially hospital air. Out of 40 cases operated on by Mr. Fergusson at King's College Hospital, up ^to June 1864, no less than 15 terminated fatally,* chiefly from pya3mia and exhaustion. Of 30 cases published by Dr. Humphry of Cambridge, 6 died, of whom 3 suffered amputation, and 24 recovered, of whom 5 suffered amputation, leaving 19 recoveries from the excision simply.f VHI. Excision of the ankle-joint and tarsus.—In disease and injury of the ankle-joint and tarsus, the surgeon should still be guided by the principles upon which he acts in disease of the wrist; namely, that diseased parts should be extirpated, and that any sound parts that may even be partially useful should be left. The operation in every case must be planned according to the state of the parts ; and in most cases the surgeon will probably content himself with enlarging sinuses, denuding the diseased bones, and scooping them out piecemeal with the gouge, and repeating the operation if necessary until all the ca- rious parts are removed, instead of removing the whole at one coup. The OS calcis has been cut out by Mr. Hancock, Mr. Gay, Mr. Page of Carlisle, and other surgeons. Mr, Page began with an incision down to the bone, from half an inch below the inner ankle, directly under the sole of the foot to the outer ankle; intending to resort to Syme's operation if the state of things revealed by future dissection should render it necessary. The flap was dissected up from the heel; the tendo Achillis cut at its insertion; the joint between the os calcis and astragalus opened, the interosseous and other ligaments divided. The incision was then carried forwards along the sole, on each side, and a flap raised from the anterior part of the os calcis, up to its articulation with the cuboid, which was then divided, and the os calcis removed.J The cyboidhono. may be laid bare by a crucial or \-\ incision, and may be gouged out or separated from its connections by forceps and knife. The OS calcis and astragalus, with the cuboid and malleoli, were re- moved by Mr. Thomas Wakley in 1847.§ An incision was carried across the sole of the foot from one ankle to the other. A second and third at right angles to this along each side of the sole, so far forwards as the calcaneo-cuboid and astragalo-scaphoid joints respectively, so as to enable a flap of the sole about two inches long to be turned forwards. Then a last semicircular incision was made from one ankle to another behind the heel at the level of the insertion of the tendo Achillis, which was cut through. The flap made by this last incision was raised, and the OS calcis disarticulated from the astragalus and cuboid, and re- * Lectures at the Royal CoUege of Surgeons, July, 1864. f Address before the British Medical Association, August 5, 1864. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 13, 1864. + Lancet, 1860, vol. i., p. 628. $ See report and drawings in Lancet, 1S48, vol. ii., p. 5; also in Guthrie's Gommeutaries.