342 ANEDEYSM. internal and middle coats of the artery at the site of some atheromatous spot, after which the pressure of the blood dilates the external or aneurysm. Let the aneurysm, however, begin as it may, it gradually dilates under the constant pressure of the heart's impulse. It soon becomes lined with coagula, deposited in distinct concentric laminje, of w^hich the outer ones are the palest and firmest; and whether it was originally formed of all the three tunics or not, certain it is, that the inner two soon waste and disappear, and cannot usually be traced far from the opening into the artery. Symptoms.— If an aneurysm be seated in the neck or limbs, it ap- pears as a tumour in the course of an artery, and pulsating with it. By the stethoscope, a blowing sound or bruit will probably be heard at each pulsation. If it be small, and not filled with coagulum, pres- sure on the artery above will render it flaccid, and it may be emptied by further pressure; and the blood returns into it afterwards with a peculiar vibratory thrill. The patient will very often say that it com- menced after some violent strain, when something appeared to give way. The first thing usually felt is a pulsation ; then a tumour, not painful at first, but gradually becoming excessively so from its pressure as it enlarges. The neuralgic pain, caused by the stretching of nerves by an increasing aneurysm, is often most excruciating. In the chest, aneurysm will be principally known by an unnatural pulsation felt by the patient, and detectable by the stethoscope; together with symp- * An incipient aneurysm of the arch of the aorta. The portion of artery represented is slit up..so as to show the cut edges, with the atheromatous de- posit between the coats of the vessel. f Paul Broca, Sur Us Anevrysmes, Paris, 1856, p. 41. * cellular coat into a pouch. This mode of origin is evi- dent from the distinct, rounded, circumscribed opening by which most aneurysms communicate with the artery. It may also commence by a dila- tation of all three of the tunics at some diseased spot. Sometimes the wound of the inner and middle coats produced by a ligature has produced aneurysm at the part tied.f Sometimes, again, as in a case that happened to Mr. Listen, an artery ulcerates and opens into a contiguous abscess, the sac of which becomes the sac of the