AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. 489 ries, especially if they have carious teeth, may cause inflammation of the periosteum, with thickening and infiltration, followed by inflamma- tion and abscess, and resulting in necrosis of a portion of bone with extensive sloughing of the soft parts around. The health is much broken down ; the discharge particularly fetid and copious. " With loss of appetite, sallow countenance, and feeble circulation," says Mr. Stanley, "the first indication of the disease is usually toothache, fol- lowed by the dropping out of the teeth, more especially of the grinders, and then by the death of a portion of the jaw." There is no reparation subsequently as in common necrosis. Treatment.—In the earliest stage, free incisions through the gums and thickened periosteum ; when necrosis has taken place, deodorizing lotions copiously applied; meat beaten to a pulp, and other nourishing food; loose portions to be removed as soon as detached.* VII. Closure of the Jaws, with more or less inability to open the mouth and to masticate solid food, may be a result of disease of the bone implicating the joint; or of rigid cicatrices within the mouth, produced after sloughing, whether caused by drinking boiling water, or by the profuse administration of mercury. The division of any rigid bands of cicatrices, the division of the masseter muscles by subcutaneous section, a narrow knife being thrust from the mouth between the muscle and the skin, an operation which has been successfully per- formed by Mr. Fergusson, and the use of a screw dilator, are the only available remedies. SECTION IV.—AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. 1. Tumours of almost every kind, including cartilaginous, glandu- lar, vascular, and serocystic, may be found in the cheeks, but the com- monest are encysted tumours, containing a glairy liquid. They may project on the inner surface of the lips, or may exist under the tongue, where such tumours are known by the tei-m ranula. It was formerly supposed that ranula depended on obstruction of the Whartonian sali- vary duct; but this is not the case. These tumours should be ti'eated in the first place by simple free incision, or by cutting out a piece of the sac. Should this not suffice, the interior may be touched with lunar caustic, or a small seton be passed through it, to cause it to sup- purate and waste away; or the cyst, if loosely attached, may be dis- sected out. When ranula has existed long, it may increase greatly and form a tumour of very considerable size, pushing the tongue over to the other side, or up to the roof of the mouth, interfering very seriously with speech, deglutition, and even respiration, not allowing the mouth to be closed, projecting under the jaw, and even, as in a case related by Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, reaching down between the sterno-mastoid muscle and trachea to the clavicle. The contents of such cysts become mortar- * See Stanley on the Bones, and a Lecture by Mr. Simon, Lancet, 12th Jan. 1850.