329 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. But we find a provision in nature for avoiding this danger. 1. If an artery of small size, as the digital or the temporal, be cleanly cut across, there will be a pretty brisk hajmorrhage for a time; but it will soon cease, mider the influence of the following natural processes. First, the divided vessel contracts, so as to close its orifice ; and so, also, as to lessen its canal immediately above, into the shape of the neck of a champagne bottle. If all goes on well, there is, secondly, the exudation of fibrin around the orifice; and thirdly, there is coagulation of the blood for a short distance within. The vessel also, fourthly, retracts into its sheath, if the surrounding tissues are loose enough to admit of it. Under the influence of these four processes, the bleeding is checked ; then if all goes on well, the contracted orifice is sealed up by the exuded lymph, and the coagulum within gradually becomes firmer, adheres to the walls of the vessel, loses its colour, fibrillates, and, in process of time, becomes organized into fibro-cellular tissue, forming, with the impervious end of the artery, a mere fibrous cord. 2. If a very large artery, such as the femoral or subclavian, is wounded, and if the aperture in it is large, and the flow of blood is in no manner opposed, the loss of blood will be so rapid as to occasion death almost instantaneously, if, however, the wound in the artery is very small, it may be closed firmly by coagulated blood during syncope, and the patient may survive if properly treated. 3. If the artery is of the second order, as the humeral or tibial, the bleeding will most probably cease for a time. But in the course of some hours, when the faintness has passed off", and the heart beats sti'ongly again, the coagula in the orifice of the vessel will most probably be dislodged, and the bleeding will recur again and again, so that the patient will very likely die of it, unless it be checked by art. In some cases, however, the orifice of the vessel may become permanently closed. 4. A puncture or partial division of an artery may be much more troublesome than complete division; because the chief process for arresting hsemorrhage, namely, the contraction, is prevented; and the bleeding can only be obstructed by the coagulated blood in the wound. Under these circumstances, three things may happen. In the first place, the aperture, if longitudinal or very small, may in favourable cases be closed by adhesion, the arteiy remaining pervious. The uniting lymph, however, is very liable to be dilated into a false aneurism. An oblique cut is likely to bleed most obstinately. Or, secondly, the channel of the artery may be obliterated by coagulated blood. Or, thirdly, bleeding may recur perpetually, till the patient dies, or the un- divided part of the vessel ulcerates, or is divided by art. From these details may easily be gathered the reason why, when a small artery has been partially divided (as the temporal in arteriotomy), it is judi- cious to divide it completely. When an artery is torn across, it contracts almost immediately, and