MELANOSIS. 113 the same disease. The malady is far more liable to leturn after exci- sion, and is more rapidly and certainly fatal on the lip, tongue, or penis, than on the trunk or limbs. It will be seen that phagedcenic epithelioma has close affinities with cancer, in its tendency to spread; to invade and infiltrate all tissues successively; to affect the lymphatics; and to re1,urn after excision. It differs, inasmuch as it is more capable of being excited by external causes ; not attended with so early or obvious derangement of the health ; more curable by excision ; homologous in its elements, and not liable, except in the rarest possible instances, to be diffused over distant organs. Treatment.—'The only measure worth speaking of is very early and free extirpation by the knife, followed by repeated and wide excision of any part whatever within the sphere of the malady, if it returns ; or by destruction with caustic after the manner described under the head of Lvpus and Cancer. And extirpation is still to be advocated even in cases where the disease has made great progress, and where the lym- phatics are affected, because although it must be confessed that the disease is almost sure to return, and ultimately to prove fatal, yet it, removes, though but for a time, a disgusting and irritating ulcer, whicli preys on the patient's spirits, and exhausts his vital powers. In other respects, the general and local treatment is that of cancer.* SECTION VIII.—MELANOSIS. Definition.—The word melanosis has been applied indiscriminately to tumours containing notable quantities of black pigment. Pigment is a thing of frequent occurrence in the animal body. In some animals it appeiirs earlier than blood or vessels ; and it may be of different composition and propei- ties in different cases. But it is ^ usually found in the form of the minutest sepia-coloured granules, such as give the colour to the choroid coat of the eye, and to the skin in dark persons, and the lungs of the aged. These gra- nules may be free, or collected into masses, with a cell-mem- * v " ^ brane around them; or may be added to any morbid growth whatever. The chemical composition is not settled; but pigment * For a full account of this disease, consult Hannover, das Epithelioma, &c. Leipzig, 1852. t This cut represents a portion of a very tough fibrous tumour, loaded with pigment, from an old bay pony of Professor Simmonds, of the Eoyal Veterinary College. The author begs to express his acknowledgments to Professor Sim- monds for many opportunities of studying morbid growths in the lower animals.