354 in flaps from the tumour, before the latter is tied; or that, if this is not done, a cut should be made through the skin for the ligatures to lie in; —or that the ligatures should be passed under the skin, so as to stran- gulate the morbid growth, and leave the skin untouched. One mode is to pass two or three needles crucially through the base of the tumour, and then twist a strong twine ligature firmly round be- neath them. Or, two or more double ligatures maybe passed through the base of the tumour, with a curved needle which has its eye at its pointed extremity and then the tumour may be strano-u- lated by tying the adjacent threads together. Or, the knot devised by Mr. P'ergusson, represented in the adjoining figure, may . .. be used. A double thread is carried by a j - . f I stout long suture needle, with a large eye, \ ■ - J • •^ transversely under the centre of the tu- y (' ^ mour, and divided in the middle. Next, '-'■^-^ the disengaged end of the thread is passed through the eye of the needle along with the one already occupying it, and, having been brought one-fourth round the circumference of the tumour, is passed through its base transversely to the first. Lastly, the adjoining ends of the two threads are to be tied tightly, so that each of the two threads shall include an 8-shaped portion of the tumour. The tumour may be punctured before the threads are finally tightened; and in every case the constric- tion should be made as tight as possible. After two or three days the ligatures should be tightened, or fresh ones should be applied. In each of these cases the skin should be cut through just before the threads are tightened, so as to make a chink for them to lie in, and to avoid the pain and delay of ulceration through the skin. A somewhat similar and entire strangulation of the tumour, when it affects the skin, is accomplished by Mr. Wood in the following manner. A needle mounted on a handle with a slight curve only in the blade, and a piece of stout, smooth, hempen ligature, well soaped and then oiled, are used in this operation. First, the needle, armed, is passed diagonally across the base of, and under the ntevus, the loop of the thread caught and left in the puncture, and the needle withdrawn. Then the needle, carrying the long end of the thread, is again passed across the base of the nsevus at right angles to the former, the loop again retained, and the needle finally disengaged. Care must be taken in doing this part of the proceeding to have the fi-ee end of the thread travelling through the needle's eye, so as to leave it disengaged when withdrawn. Then four curved incisions are made passing from one puncture to the other throuo-h the skin only. The loops are then drawn upon so as to sink the thread well into the incision opposite to them (see fig. 1). Then