CATARACT. 4:26 repeat the operation afterwards. If, however, a little bit of it should get under the edge of the knife, Avhen the section is nearly complete, an attempt should be made to extricate it by pressing on the cornea just over it with the nail; but if this does not readily succeed, the operator may push on boldly, since, if a little piece of it be cut, it will be of no great consequence. 2, If the opening of the cornea is not large enough, it must be enlarged with the secondary knife. 3. If a portion of the lens remain behind, it should be left to be absorbed—unless it has passed into the anterior chamber, and can be removed very easily indeed. 4. If the vitreous humour seem disposed to escape, the cataract should be hooked out with the hook. After Treatment.—The patient should be put to bed, with the shoulders raised, the room darkened, and with a very soft dry linen rag over both eyes. The bowels should be kept open, and everything be avoided which is likely to provoke coughing, sneezing, or vomiting. Mr. Walton allows the usual diet, at the usual times, only in rather diminished quantity ; and this plan seems preferable to that of keeping the patient exclusively on slops. If all goes on comfortably, the eyelid may be raised on the seventh day, and then if there be no prolapse of the iris, and the cornea be united, he may get up occasionally, wearing a shade, sitting in a darkened room, and walking about a little. After a fortnight the eye may be opened in a weak light, and be gradually brought into use. But, inasmuch as it remains weak and irritable, the patient must take the greatest care to avoid exposure to cold, excess in diet, over-exertion of the eye, or exposure of it to too strong a light. Gray spectacles are the best protectors against too glaring a light. The patient will require convex spectacles for exact vision, but they must be used very sparingly for some weeks. He should have two pairs, one with a short focus for near objects, and another of long focus for distant objects. The inflammation which may come on after the operation may be of two kinds. If the eyelids are swollen, and florid, and tender, and there is a thick yellow secretion about the lids, and the conjunctiva is red, swollen, and chemosed, the inflammation is acute, and requires to be treated by bleeding and purging. But if, as Mr. Tyrrell shows, the palpebrse are not much discoloured, and are cedematous, and if the secretion is tliin and light-coloured, and the conjunctiva cedematous, the patient will be benefited by good broth, carbonate of ammonia, and opium. II. Displacement, or Couching.—The object of this operation is to remove the cataract from the axis of vision. It is a clumsy and violent operation, and adapted only to those cases of hard cataract, of which the exti-action would be unadvisable, for reasons mentioned in a preceding page. The disadvantages of it are, that the pressure of the lens on the ciliary processes and retina is liable to be followed by pro- tracted inflammation or amaurosis ; and that the lens may rise again to its old place, and obstruct vision as before. The preparation of the patient, his position during the operation, as well as that of the