513 LABYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. adapted together, so as when pressed together, to make as it were but one edge. 'J'here is a screw, by which the blades may be separated. The patient lies down; the surgeon feels with his left forefinger for the lower edge of the cricoid : holding the instrument in his right, with the blades closed, he inti'oduces the cutting point transversely, in the middle line, about a quarter of an inch below the cricoid, so as to slip the point into the trachea, between the first and second rings. Then the blades are separated by the screw, sufficiently to admit a tube; the screw is then reversed and the instrument withdrawn. Trocars have been invented for tracheotomy, for which they are dan- gerous. They should never be used upon children, although they might be introduced between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages in the adult. The great danger and difficulty of the operation, is the bleeding from the numerous veins which lie in front of the air-tube, and which are kept filled by the embarrassment of the breathing. The instant the trachea is opened, blood rushes in with the air during inspiration, and the patient is very liable to be suffocated. In any such case, the surgeon should not hesitate to suck out the blood and mucus with his naked mouth, or through any catheter or tube, or with a syringe. But in order to prevent this accident, he should use the knife most sparingly, and should be particularly careful not to cut downwards near the sternum. He should separate the tissues and clear the front of the trachea with a blunt hook, or the handle of the scalpel. Bleed- ing, if arterial, should be checked by ligature; if venous, by iced water, compression with the fingers, the ligature, or actual cautery ; and the trachea should not be opened till it is suppressed. So soon as an opening is made, the foreign body is sometimes expelled with a strong gust of air through the wound; sometimes through the now tranquil glottis; but if not, it may be gently searched for with a probe, and be removed by forceps or by a blunt hook; or the patient being chloroformed, may be turned upside down, and slapped on the back, as we have before said. If this proceeding be not successful, the patient must be sent back to bed, and be kept slightly narcotized ; and after a day or two the effort to remove the foreign body may be repeated. But in this case, and in any other in which the operation was performed for the relief of dyspnoea, a curved tube should be introduced for the patient to breathe through. It should fit tightly into the aperture, and prevent the entrance of blood into the trachea. It should be of such a size, as Trousseau has remarked, that the air may pass through it in respiration without any whistling noise.* When the patient wishes to cough, or speak, or swallow, he must be taught to close its orifice with his finger. It should be double, as represented in the following figure, so that by withdrawing the innermost tube, it may be cleared of any mucus that may accumulate in it. It should have a hole in its convex surface, so * Trousseau, L'Experience, Nov. 5, 1840; Clin. Lecture, Med. Times, Jan. 4, 1856. A series of papers on Traclieotomy by Dr. Turner, of Keith, are well worth reading, Prov. Med. Journal, 1854.