8 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Demy 8vo, cloth, i6j. Dutt's India, Past and Present; with Minor Essays on Cognate Subjects. By Shoshes Chundeh Dutt, Rai Bahadoor. Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume. Early English Poets. Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Grosart. "Mr. Grosart has spent ihe most laborious and the most enthusiastic care en ihe perfect restoration and preservation of the text. . . From Mr: Grosart we always expect and always receive ihe final results of most patient and competent scholarship."—Examiner. i. Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Com- 1 3. Kerrick's (Robert) Heoperi- plete Poems: Christ's Victorie in . des, Noble Numbers, and Complete Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth, Christ's Triumph over Death, and Minor Poems. With Memorial-In- troduction and Notes. One Vol. Collected Poems. With Memorial- Introduction and Notes, Steel Por- trait, Index of First Lines, and Glossarial Index, &c. Three Vols. 2. Davies' (Sir John) Complete , 4. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Corn- Poetical Works, including Psalms I. ! plete Poetical Works, including all to L. in Verse, and other hitherto those in " Arcadia." With Portrait, Unpublished MSS., for the first time I Memorial-Introduction, Essay on Collected and Edited. Memorial- | the Poetry of Sidney, and Notes. Introduction and Notes. Two Vols. Three Vols. ____ Imperial 8vo, with 147 fine Engravings, half-morocco, 36.5. Early Teutonic, Italian, and French Masters (The). Translated and Edited from the Dohme Series, by A. H. Keane, M.A.I. With numerous Illustrations. *' Cannot fail to he of the utmost use to students of art history."—Times. Crown 8v®, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6s. Emanuel On Diamonds and Precious Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Englishman's House, The: A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House, with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with nearly 300 Illustrations, -js. 6d. Evolution, Chapters on; A Popular History of the Darwinian and Allied Theories of Develop- ment. By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S. Edin. &c. \In preparation. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Evolutionist (The) At Large. Py Grant Allen.