CHATTO 6* WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 17 Macquoid (Mrs.), Works by: In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With 50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Uniform with " Pictures and Legends." Square 8vo, cloth extra, ios. 6d. " This is another of Mrs. Macquoid's pleasant books of travel, full of useful ' information, of picturesque descriptions of scenery, and of quaint traditions respecting the various monuments and ruins •which she encounters in hir tour. . . To such of our readers as are already thinking about the year s holiday, we strongly recommend the perusal of Sirs. Macquoids experiences. The book is well illustrated by Mr. Thomas R. Macquoid."—Graphic. Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, ios. 6d. Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With go Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. "One of the few books which can be read as a piece of literature, whilst at the same time handy in the knapsack."— British Quarterly Review. Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. " The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Macquoid offers, while wander- ingfrom one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed charm around each oft-depicted scene."—Morning Post. Mark Twain's Works: The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With 100 Illustrations. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s. A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocents Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By Mark Twain. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, zs. A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, is. 6d. " The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man Iut Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make oj all this episode oj jfim Baker and his jays a piece of work t/iat is not only delightful as mere reading, but also oj a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The beck is full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the funniest of those that have gone before."-—Athen'jEUM, The Prince and the Pauper. By Mark Twain. With ner.r]y 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Uniform with " A Tramp Abroad." [/« the press. The Innocents Abroad; or, The New Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion to Europe and the Holy Land, with descriptions of Countries, Nations., Incidents, and Adventures, as they appeared to the Author. With 234 Illustrations. By Mark Twain. Crown 8vo, clolh extra, 7s. 6d. Uniform, with " A Tramp Abroad." [/« the frcss.