2 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per volume. Beautiful Pictures by British Artists: A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series. The First Series including Examples by Wilkie, Constable, Turner, Mulready, Landseer, Maclise, E. M. Ward, Frith, Sir John Gilbert, Leslie, Ansdell, Marcus Stone, Sir Noel Paton, Faed, Eyre Crowe, Gavin O'Neil, and Madox Brown. The Second Series containing Pictures by Armitage, Faed, Goodall, Hemsley, Horsley, Marks, Nicholls, Sir Noel Paton, Pickersgill, G. Smith, Marcus Stone, Solomon, Straight, E. M. Ward, and Warren. All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A. " This book is ".veil got up, and good engravings by Jeens, Lumb Stocks, and others, bring back to US Royal Academy Exhibitions of past years."—Times. Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d. Bechstein's As Pretty as Seven, And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bechstein. With Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations by Richter. One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated. Belgravia for 1882. A New Serial Story, entitled "AH Sorts and Conditions of Men," written by Walter Besant and James Rice, Authors of" Ready- Money Mortiboy," &c, and Illustrated by Fred. Barnard, will be begun in the January Number of Belgravia ; this Number will contain also the First Chapters of a New Novel, entitled "The Admiral's Ward," by Mrs. Alexander, Author of "The Wooing o't." &c. ; and the first of a series of Twelve Papers, entitled " About Yorkshire,'' by Katharine S. Macquoid, illustrated by T. R. Macquoid. The FORTY-FIFTH Volume of BELGRAVIA, elegantly hound in crimson, cloth, full gilt side and back, gilt edges, price js.6d., is now ready- — Handsome Cases for binding volumes can be had at 2S. each. Demy 8vo, with Illustrations, is. Belgravia Annual. With Stories by Wilkie Collins, F. W. Robinson, Dutton Cook, Percy Fitzgerald, J. Arbuthnot Wilson, Henry W. Lucy, D. Christie Murray, James Payn, and others. f A'ov. 10. Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21s. Blake (William): Etchings from his Works. By W. B. Scott. With descriptive Text. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Boccaccio's Decameron; or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Intro- duction by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait, and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.