3° BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Four Vols, small Svo, cloth boards, 30*. Taine's History of English Literature. Translated by Henry Van Laun. »«* Also a Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15*. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6*. Tales of Old Thule. Collected and Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith. One Vol. crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas: " Clancarty," "Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," "The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn." " Plot and Passion." *** Tho Plays may also be had separately, at is. each. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his every- day reading. With Hundreds of Wood Engravings, facsimiled from Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence. With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunning- ham, and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Thornbury's (Walter) Haunted London. A New Edition, Edited by Edward Walford, M.A., with numerous Illustrations by F. W. FAIRHOLT, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Timbs' Clubs and Club Life in London. With Anecdotes of its famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns. By John Timbs, F.S.A. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Timbs' English Eccentrics and Eccentrici- ties: Stories of Wealth and Fashion. Delusions, Impostures, and Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters, &c. By John Times, F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s. Torrens' The Marquess Wellesley, Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of Pro- Consul and Tribune: Wellesley and O'Connell: Historic Portraits. By W. M. TORRENS, M.P. In Two Vols.