12 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Haweis (Mrs.), Works by: The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, is.; cloth limp, is. 6d. "A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costumes of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to tkt point, she does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her <nvn sex on the follies they indulge in We may recommend the book to the ladies whom it concerns"—Athek/si'm. The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly 100 Illustrations, ios. 6a?. The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo, handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, 10s. 6d. %* See also Chaucer, p. 5 of this Catalogue. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 51. Heath (P. G.)—My Garden Wild, And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of " The Fern World," &c. SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.—Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Heptalogia (The); or, The Seven against Sense. A Cap with Seven Bells. " The merits of the book cannot be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts ; it should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and, in our opinion, its merits entitle it to be very zuidely read indeed."—St. Jamhs's Gazette. Cr. 8vo, bound in parchment, Ss. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 151. Herbert.—The Poems of Lord Herbert of Cherbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Churton Collins. Complete in Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. each. History of Our Own Times, from the Accession of Queen Victoria to the General Election of 1880. By Justin McCarthy, M.P. "Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approval. This is a really good book on a really interesting subject, and words piled on words could say no more for it."— Saturday Review. New Work by the Author of " A HISTORY of OUR OWN TIMES." Four Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12J. each. History of the Four Georges. By Justin McCarthy, M.P. \Inpreparation. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d. Holmes's The Science of Voice Production and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, L.R.C.P.E.