BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 10 One Shilling Monthly. Gentleman's Magazine (The), for 1882. The January Number of this Periodical will contain the First Chapters of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorne, Author of "Garth," &c. "Science Notes," by W. Mattteu Williams, F.R.A.S., will also be continued monthly. %* Now ready, the Volume for January to June, i88i, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d.; and Cases for binding, price zs, each. Demy 8vo, illuminated cover, is. Gentleman's Annual, The. Containing Two Complete Novels. [Arov 15. THE RUSK IN GRIMM. —Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, js. 6d. German Popular Stories. Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations after the inimitable designs of George Cruikshank. Both Series Complete, *' The illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which they illustrate; and the original etchings, as I liave before said in the Appendix to tny ' Elements of Drawing,' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rem- brandt (in some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . .. To make somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass, a>id never putting two lines wliere Cruikshank has put only one, would be an exer- cise in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be learnt in sclwols."—Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin. Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d. Glenny's A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Manage- ment of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny. " A great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. T>u amateur need not wish for a better guide."—Leeds Mercury. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d. Golden Treasury of Thought, The: An Encyclopaedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys.6d. Greeks and Romans, The Life of the, Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Guhl and W. Koner. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by Dr. F. Hueffer. With 545 Illustrations.