CHATTO &> V/INDUS, PICCADILLY. 13 Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works, In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals. With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations. Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s. Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North Pole : A Noah's Artseological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by W. Brunton and E. C Barnes. " The amusing letterpress is profusely intersperse! with the jingling rhymei which children love and learn so easily. Messrs. Brunton and Barnes do full justice to the writer's Meaning, and a. pleasanter result of the harmonious com operation of author and artist could not be desired." — Times. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works, including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns, and Hoaxes; With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. Home's Orion: An Epic Poem in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Hornej. With a brief Commentary by the Author. With Photographic Portrait from a Medallion by Summers. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Howell's Conflicts of Capital and Labour Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and Review of the Trade Uaions of Great Britain, showing their Origin, Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Eco- nomical, and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell. " This book is an attempt, and on the whole a successful attempt, to place the work of trade unions in the past, and their objects in the future, fairly before the public from the working man's point cf view" — Pall Mall Gazette. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12J. 6d. Hueffer's The Troubadours: A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By Francis Hueffer. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Janvier—Practical Keramics for Students. By Catherine A. Janvier. " IVill be found .1 useful handbook by those who wish to try the manufacturt or decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to knout something of the art."—Morning Post. A New Edition, Revised ann partly Re-wntten, with several New Chapters and Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Jennings' The Eosicrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full- page Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.