3* CHATTO & WIND US, PICCADILLY. Demy 3vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations. Tunis: the Land and the People. By Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg. Many fine illustrations. [In the press] Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations, js. ba. Turner's (J. M. W.) Life and Correspondence: Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow- Academicians. By Walter* Thornbury. A New Edition, con- siderably Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimiled from Turner's original Drawings. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Flans, 141. Walcott's Church Work and Life in English Minsters; and the English Student's Monasticon. By the Rev. Mackenzie E. C. Walcott, B.D. Large crown Svo, clotn antique, with Illustrations, js. bd. Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation : being a Discourse of Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and In- structions how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris Nicolas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. per volume. Wanderer's Library, The : Merrie England in the Olden Time. By George Daniel. With Illustrations by Robt. Cruikshank. The Old Showmen and the Old London Fairs. By Thomas Frost. The Wilds of London. By James Greenwood. Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings; Including the Origin of Signs, and Rr-.miniscences connected with Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. By Charles Hindlev. With Illusts. Circus Life and Circus Celebri- ties. By Thomas Frost. The Lives of the Conjurers. By Thomas Frost. The Life and Adventures of a Cheap Jack. By One of the Frater- nity. Edited by Charles Hindlev. The Story of the London Parks. By Jacob Larwood. With Illusts. Low-Life Deeps. An Account of the Strange Fish to be found there. By James Greenwood. Seven Generations of Execu- tioners : Memoirs of the Sanson Family (168S to 1S47). Edited by Henry Sanson. The World Behind the Scenes. By Percy Fitzgerald. London Characters. By Henry Mayhew. Illustrated. The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures of Artemus AVard. By E. P. Hingston. Frontispiece. Wanderings in Patagonia ; or, Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By Julius Beerboiim. Illustrated. Summer Cruising in the South Seas. By Charles Warren Stod- dard. Illustrated by Wallis Mac- Kay. {In the fircss The Twenty-second Annual Edition, for 1881, cloth, full gilt, 50J. Walford's County Families of* the United Kingdom. By'.Edward Walford, M. A. Containing Notices of the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c, of more than 12,000 distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country Ad- dresses, Clubs, &c.