CHATTO & IVINDUS, PICCADILLY. 9 Folio, cloth extra, £1 iij. 6d. Examples of Contemporary Art. Etchings from Representative Works by living English and Foreign Artists. Edited, with Critical Notes, by J. Comyns Carr. "It would not be easy to meet with a more sumptuous, and at the same time a more tasteful and instructive drawing-room ^^."—Nonconformist. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s. Pairholt's Tobacco : Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards of 100 Illustrations by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. Familiar Allusions: A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like. Begun (but ltft unfinished) by William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction; " completed by Charles G. Wheeler. \_In the fress. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. 6d. Faraday's Chemical History of a Candle. Lectures delivered to a Juvenile Audience. A New Edition. Edited by W. Crookes, F.C.S. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. 6d. Faraday's Various Forces of Nature. New Edition. Edited by W. Crookes, F.C.S. Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. 6d. Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. With Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries. " One of those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as of instruc tion."—Atiif.n*um. Gardening Books: A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d. Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the Rent," &c. Post Svo, cloth limp, is. 6rf. Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By TOM and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2.?. 6d. My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath. Crown Svo, cloth e.-ctra, 5*.