CHATTO &•> WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 7 Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Two very thick Volumes, 71. 6d. each. Cruikshank's Comic Almanack. Complete in Two Series : The First from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second from 1S44 to 1853. A Gathering of the Best Humour of Thackeray, Hood, Mayhew, Albert Smith, A'Beckett, Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by Cruikshank, Hine, Landells, &c. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 24J. Cruikshank (The Life of George). In Two Epochs. By Blanchard Jerrold, Author of "The Life of Napoleon III.," &c. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of his Works. [In preparation. Two Vols., demy 410, handsomely bound in half-morocco, gilt, profusely Illustrated with Coloured and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, price £7 7s. Cyclopaedia of Costume ; or, A Dictionary of Dress—Regal, Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military— from the Earliest Period in England to the reign of George the Third.' Including Notices of Contemporaneous Fashions on the Continent, and a Genera! History of the Costumes of the Principal Countries of Europe. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald. The Volumes may also be had separately (each Complete in itself) at £3 13s. 6d. each: Vol. I.' THE DICTIONARY. Vol. II. A GENERAL HISTORY OF COSTUME IN EUROPE. Also in 25 Parts, at 51. each. Cases for binding, 5$. each. '* A comprehensive and highly valuable book of reference. . . . We have rarely failed to find in this book an account of an article of dress, while in most of the entries curious and instructive details are given. . . . Mr. PlanchPi enormous labour of love, the production of a text which, whether in its dictionary form or in that of the ' General History,' is within itsiutended scope immeasurably the best and richest work on Costume in English, , , . This book is not only one of the most readable works of tlte kind, but intrinsically attractive and amusing."—Athenaeum. "A most readable and interesting work—and it can scarcely be consulted in vain, whether the reader is hi search for information as to military, court, ecclesiastical, legal, or professional costume. . . . All the chromo-lithographs, and most of the woodcut illustrations—the latter amounting to several ihousandt —are very elaborately executed ; and the work forms a livre de luxe which rendc* t it equally suited to the library and the ladies' drawing-room."—Times. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d. Doran's Memories of our Great Towns. With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their Oddities. By Dr. John Doran, F.S.A. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s. Drury Lane, Old: Fifty Years' Recollections of Author, Actor, and Manager. By Edward Stirling.