BOOKS PUBLISHED Bi i6 Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Lights on the Way: Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander, B.A. Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author o? " Thoreau : A Study." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Longfellow's Complete Prose Works. Including "Outre Mer," "Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets and Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood." With Portrait and Illus- trations by Valentine Bromley. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully Reprinted from the Original Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5.1. Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a. By a Sane Patient. " The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though tlie subject le. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to ait asylum, nothing car, be clearer than his sanity when he vjrote this book; it it bright, calm, and to the point."—Spectator. Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, i8j. Lusiad (The) of Camoens. Translated into English Spenserian verse by Robert Ffrench Duff, Knight Commander of the Portuguese Royal Order of Christ. Mailook7s (W. HTWorks: Is Life Worth Living P By William Hurrell Mallock. New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. " This deeply interesting volume It is the most powerful vin- dication 0/''religion, both natural and revealed, that has appeared since Bishop Butler wrote, and is much more useful than either the Analogy or the Ser- mons of that great divine, as a refutation of the peculiar form assumed by the infidelity of the present day Deeply philosophical as the booh is, there is not a heavy page in it. The writer is 'possessed,' so to speak, with his great subject, has sounded its depths, surveyed it in all its extent,, and brought to bear on it all the resources of a vivid, rich, and impassioned style, as well as an adequate acquaintance with the science, the philosophy, and t lie literature of the day."—Irish Daily News. The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2i. 6<j!. The New Paul and Virginia : or, Positivism on an Island. By W. H. Mallock. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Poems. By W. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, Ss. A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. By W. FT. Mallock. Second Edition, with a Preface. Two Vols., crown*8vo, sis.