CHATIO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, ioj. 6d. Lamb (Mary and Charles): Their Poems, Letters, and Remains. With Reminiscences and Notes by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare First Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations. ■■ Very many passages will delight those fjnd of literary trifles ; hardly any portion will fail in interest for lovers of Charles Lamb and his sister" Standard. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5.5. Lamb's Poetry for Children, and Princ© Dorus. Carefully Reprinted from unique copies. " The quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of which all the heartt of his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing"—A. C. Swineuknk. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Lares and Penates; Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy. " The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions. . . . . We hope nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a good deal about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to zvealthy ones."— Gxaphic. Crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, 6s. Leigh's A Town Garland. By Henry S. Leigh, Author of "Carols of Cockayne." "If Mr. Leigh's verse survive to a future generation—and there is no reason why that honour sltould not be accorded productions so delicate, so finished, and so full of humow—their author will probably be remembered as the Poet of the Strand."—Athenaeum. Second Edition.—Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s. Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological. By Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Zoology arid Compara- tive Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School. "It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator* mho in the intervals of his more serious professional labours sets himself to impart knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct, with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr. Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in science at Edinburgh and Glasgow, at leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem with matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the truthi of nature."—Saturday Review. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Life in London; or, The History of jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals.