CHATTO &• WIND US, PICCADILLY. Square i6mo (Tauchnitz size), cloth extra, zs. per volume Golden Library, The: Ballad History of England. By W. C. Bennett. Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the Echo Club. Byron's Don Juan. Emerson's Letters and Social Aims. O-odwin's (William) Lives of the Necromancers., Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast Table. With an Introduc- tion by G. A. Sala. Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast Table. Hood'3 Whims and Oddities. Complete. With all the original Il- lustrations. Irving's (Washington) Tales of a Traveller. Irving's (Washington) Tales of the Aihambra. Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations of Country Life. Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both Series Complete in One Vol. Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and other Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduc- tion by Edmund Ollikr. Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort d'Arthur: The Stories of King Arthur and of the Knights of the Round Table. Edited by B. Montgomkrib Ranking. Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New Translation, with Historical In- troduction and Notes, by T. M'Crib, D.D. Pope's Poetical Works. Com- plete. Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral Reflections. With Notes, and an Introductory Essay by Saint e- Beuve. St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and The Indian Cottage. Edited, with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke. Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh Hunt. Shelley's Later Poems : Laon and Cythna, &c. Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the Shelley Papers, &c. Shelley's Prose Works, includ- ing A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi St. Irvyne, &c. White's Natural History' of Sel* borne. Edited, with Additions, by Thomas Brown, F.L.S. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 4*. 6d. Guyot's Earth and Man; or, Physical Geography in its Relation to the History of Mankind. With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray ; 12 Maps and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and copious Index. Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by: Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, Ss. New Symbols. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, ys. bd. Hall's (Mrs. S. C.) Sketches of Irish Character. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Maclise, Gil- bert, Harvey, and G. Cruikshank. " The Irish Skctclies of this lady resemble Miss Mitford's beautiful English sketches in 'Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and bright."—Blackwood's Magazine.