1 + BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Jerrold (Tom), Works by: Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo, cloth limp, is.bd. Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of " The Garden that Paid the Rent," &c. Post Svo, cloth limp, zs. 6d. " The combination of hints on cookery "with gardening has been very cleverly carried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little work. Mr. Jerrold is correct in saying that English people do not make half tlie use of vegetables they might; and by showing how easily they can be grown, and so obtained fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more popular."—Daily Chronicle. Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14J. Joseplms, The Complete Works of. Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews." Small Svo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6s. Kavanaghs' Pearl Fountain, And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and Julia Kavanagh. With Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith. " Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them as delightful as tkt best of Grimm's ' German Popular Stories.' .... For the most part the ttories are downright, thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kind. . . Mr. Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, are admirable."—Spectator. Square Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s. Knight (The) and the Dwarf. By Charles Mills. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas Lindsay. \Jn the press. Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2s. 6d. Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and • Imitate it. By Daisy Waterhouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustra- tions by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Portraits, 7s. 6d. Lamb's Complete Works, In Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Original Editions, with many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay on Roast Pig." " A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains to bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original appearance in various old periodicals."—Saturday Review.