CHATTO <Sr> WIND US, 27 PICCADILLY. Two Vols., large 4to, profusely Illustrated, half-morocco, £2 16s. Rowlandson, the Caricaturist. A Selection from his Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions of his Famous Caricatures, and a Sketch of his Life, Times, and Contemporaries. With nearly 400 Illustrations, mostly in Facsimile of the Originals. By Joseph Gr'ego, Author of "James Gillray, the Caricaturist; his Life, Works, and Times." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 4s. 6d. each. " Secret Out" Series, The. The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or, Complete Art of Making Fire- works. By Thomas Kentish. With numerous Illustrations. The Art of Amusing: A Collection of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank Bellew. 300 Illustrations. Hanky-Panky: Very Easv Tricks, Very Difficult Tricks,White Ma»ic, Sleight of Hand Magician's Own Book: Performances with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All from Actual Experience. Edited by W. H. Cremer. 200 Illustrations. Magic No Mystery: Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c, with fully descriptive Directions ; the Art of Secret Writing ; Training of Performing Animals, &c. Coloured Frontispiece and many Illustrations. The Secret Out Edited by W.H.Cremer. 200 Illusts. | One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and The Merry Circle : other Recreations ; with Entertaining A Book of New Intellectual Games Experiments _ in Drawing-room or and Amusements. By Clara Bellkw. \ "White Magic. By W. H. Cremer. Many Illustrations. 1 300 Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Senior's Travel and Trout in the Antipodes. An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William Senior ("Red Spinner"), Author of " Stream and Sea." Shakespeare: Shakespeare, The First Folio. Mr. William Shakespeare's Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true Originall Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Iaggard and Ed. Blount, 1623.—A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile by a photographic process—ensuring the strictest accuracy in every detail. Small 3vo, half-Roxburghe, 7*. 6d. Shakespeare, The Lansdowne. Beautifully printed in red and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. 6t?. Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and plain, by J. Movr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, ios.6d. Shakespeare Music, The Handbook of. Being an Account of 350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the Present Time. By Alfred Roffe. 4to, half-Roxburghc, 7s. Shakespeare, A Study of. By Algernon Charles Swin- BURNK. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 8i.