22101733987Med K10575 THE PAPER'BAG COOKERY MANUAL.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL BY C. HERMAN SENN, G.C.A. ({or 18 years Consulting Chef at the National Training School of Cookery, and formerly of the Reform Club, London), Author of The New Century Cookery Book,” ” Recherche Entrees and Sweets,' Recherche Side Dishes,” Breakfast and Supper Dishes, ' Practical Gastronomy,” ” How to Cook Vegetables,” Eggs and Omelets,” A Book of Salads,” "Chafing-dish & Casserole Cookery," Ices,& How to Make Them,” The Menus Book,” etc., etc. London: THE “DAILY EXPEESS” (1908), LTD., 23, St. Bride Street, E.C. 1911. fWB1C0ME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Cal! No. <&TCONTENTS Page. Introduction .. .. .. .. 5 Paper-Bag Cookery .. .. .. 8 Advantages of the System .. .. 13 Instructions for Paper-Bag Cookery .. 17 Flavour, &c. .. .. .. .. 22 The Hygienic Safety of the System .. 27 Recipes for— Fish .. .. .. .. *. 29 Meat .. .. .. .. 50 Cold Meat Dishes .. .. .. 66 Poultry and Game .. .. .. 73 Vegetables .. .. .. .. 82 Hot and Cold Sweets .. .. 96 Pastries and Cakes .. .. .. 110 Savouries and Miscellaneous Recipes .. 119 Some Specimen Menus .. .. .. 123 17 Don’ts in Paper-Bag Cookery .. .. 126 Paper-Bag Cooking Hints .. .. 129 General Index .. .. .. .. 135“DAILY EXPRESS” “PAPAKUK” BAG. PRICE LIST. Sizes. 25 50 100 1.— 7 x 5 .. 6d. .. 10d. .. 1/6 2.— 9i x 7J .. 7d. .. 1/1 .. 2/- 3.—14^ x 10J .. lOd. .. 1/7 .. 3/- 4.—20£ x 11J .. 1/3 .. 2/* 4/6 5.—20£ x 15| .. 1/6 .. 2/10 .. 5/6 Suitable CLIPS are supplied in Boxes of 100 each, Price, 6d. per Box. WIRE GRIDS FOR “DAILY EXPRESS” PAPER-BAG COOKING. Sizes .. 6x6 8x8 10 x 10 12 x 12 12 x 15 Price, each 6d. 9d. 1/- 1/3 1/6 These Grids are the approved pattern, and are being used ex- tensively in demonstrating the “Daily Express” method of Paper- Bag Cooking. ASSORTED BAGS. SAMPLE 1/- and 6d. packets can be obtained direct from the “ Daily Express ” Office, or from any Stationer. The 1/- packet (post free 1/2) contains four “ Express” Bags of each size, a Cookery Book containing more than 150 Recipes for Paper-Bag Cookery as well as full instruc- tions, and a supply of Clips for fastening the Bags. The 6d. packet (post free 7d.) contains two “Express” Bags of each size, together with a supply of wire Clips and a leaflet of instructions. THERMOMETERS specially adapted for “Daily Express ” Paper-Bag Cooking can be obtained from the “Daily Express” Office, 23, St. Bride Street, London, at 2/6 each, or by post 2/9.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Introduction. HE ever-increasing demand for simpler, more effective cooking methods, whereby a decided gain in nutrition and economy in preparing and cooking food is assured, has prompted me to produce this small book on cooking in a paper-bag, a subject which has during the past few months created considerable interest among all classes. It is often difficult to judge the real value of a little known cooking process, unless one has a reliable guide to consult, for by such means those whose duty it is to direct or cook food are able to decide, if experiments in new methods are really worth while—and I have little doubt that the result attending any experiment made when following the directions given in this small cooking guide will be quite successful. I wish to make it quite clear that I do not claim to be the originator of this so-called new system of cookery. The question as to whom this credit is due is already disposed of in' the following6 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. pages. I have further to state that I am not an inventor of a paper-bag or the patent clips used in this system of cookery. I have subjected to severe tests several makes of paper-bags, also various kinds of grease-proof paper, in which different kinds of food have been cooked. As a result of these tests I have found the “Express” Paper-Bag (Papakuk) to be best and to answer the purpose thoroughly, and it is for this reason, as well as on account of the low price at which these bags are sold, that I have no hesitation in recommending this special make of bag. Cooking in paper-bags has been described and largely advertised as the “ greatest culinary triumph of the age,” and some writer even went so far as to call it an “ earth-shaking revolution in culinary methods.” There is, however, nothing strikingly novel about this “ new method of cooking,” for the principle of cooking in paper has been known for generations, and those who will take the trouble to look up any standard cookery books will find plenty of recipes where paper is used for the purpose of wrapping-up food in and during the process of cooking. In this way fish, flesh, and fowl is directed to be grilled, boiled, roasted, and baked, and the results obtained have always been acknow- ledged to be more satisfactory than by the ordinary cooking methods.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 7 During my culinary career at the Reform Club, the roast cooks rarely ever cooked a joint of meat or a bird without it was first wrapped in grease-proof paper ; the roasts then, as now, were always a great feature of the Reform Club, and the same may be said of other first-class catering establishments. This process of enveloping raw food in paper was not alone confined to meat and poultry, it has always been adopted by professional cooks at hotels, restaurants, and clubs, for various kinds of dishes, thereby securing all the true flavour of the food materials. It will thus be seen that the principle of enclosing viands in an air-tight envelope has been long regarded as one of the higher attainments in the culinary pro- fession. By the paper-bag method similar results are obtained, only in a more simplified form. On this account it deserves to become more generally adopted for household cookery, whilst cleanliness of the paper-bag method is in itself a strong recommendation.8 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Paper-Bag Cookery. HE principle of the conserva- tion of flavour, represented by Paper-Bag Cookery, is as old as the hills, even though in the past it may have been main- tained by other means than that of paper wrappings. The author of the “ Cruise of the Cachalot,” Mr. F. T. Bullen, mentions the method practised by the Kanakas of the Friendly Isles, who used leaves instead of paper. A hole was scooped in the earth for the making of a wood fire, which was constantly replenished until it became a heap of glowing charcoal. Pebbles were then thrown in until the charcoal was covered. The object to be cooked was enveloped in leaves, placed upon the pebbles, and more leaves heaped upon it. The earth was then thrown back into the cavity and well stamped down. A couple of days would pass, and then the food would be dug up, smoking hot, retaining all its juices, and tender as a jelly. “No form of civilised cookery,” affirms the author, “ can in the least compare with it.” Darwin, in his voyage of the “Beagle,” describes a similar practice prevailing amongst the Tahitians, and in our own country, the Romany lassTHE PAPEE-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 9 still clings to the good old gipsy custom of enveloping her supper dish of roast hedge- hog in an outer covering of clay before she lays it carefully in the glowing-wood ashes. As cookery rose to the distinction of becoming one of the fine arts of civilization, the value of paper wrappings grew increas- ingly apparent. The open-fire roasting, so much in vogue in the early part of the Middle Ages, was soon found to need the use of well-oiled paper to wrap around the joint, and so hermetically seal the juices. Later on, when ovens came into fashion, the practice of wrapping flesh, fowl, or confectionery in a casing of paper as a part protection against the heat, but mainly to conserve the flavour, grew widely universal. Equally valuable, and equally familiar, was the envelope of paper used in some forms of oven stewing, whilst for grilling the method was practically a commonplace. In England, however, as compared with the Continent, the idea of paper-bag cookery moved somewhat slowly. Abroad, in those foreign countries which have always been noted for the excellence of their cuisine, the chefs and skilled experts have under- stood and applied, probably for centuries, the use of oiled cases for all such perishably flavoured dainties as red mullets, trout, quails, ortolans, sweetbreads, certain kinds of game, etc., and the more delicate of vegetables. Neither were they content10 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. with paper, but were wont to supplement their “papillote” methods by flour and water paste for joints of game and venison, and for the hermetical sealing of casserole lids, so as the more effectually to imprison the elusive fumet. But English people have made amends for their tardiness in appreciation of “papillote” methods by the extraordinary enthusiasm for paper-bag cookery, which is now being manifested through every corner of the United Kingdom, as well as the British colonies and the United States of America. Hotels and restaurants may possibly stand aloof, but there is hardly a private house which will not reflect in some measure this popular innovation, whilst for the flat dweller, the bachelor, the woman- worker, or the small working and middle- class householder, paper-bag cookery has unquestionably come to stay. The saving of time and labour, and the absence of scullery work, have already formed a part solution of the weary servant question. Enough has been said to show that “paper” cookery is no new invention. The novelty to-day consists merely in the fact that a bag is used in preference to a twisted piece of plain paper, and is undoubtedly a great improvement. The question of the origin of the bag arose only a few months ago out of a competition in London between two rival chefs, when a German chef used specially prepared paper-bags, and a FrenchTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 11 chef merely ordinary grease-proof paper, the one idea of the latter being to show that bags were superfluous by the side of ordinary paper. A certain section of the press has erroneously inferred since, that the Frenchman was the inventor of the bag system, but those present at the historic culinary duel know that it was not possible for either chef to be responsible for the creation of a process centuries old, though the palm of popularity in the paper-bag method ma}r be fairly awarded to the German chef. To turn now to the practical side of paper-bag cookery. The mistake in the recent rage of the “papakuk” cult has been to enclose everything indiscriminately in an envelope, regardless of whether the dish in question is capable of being adapted to such a method. Many of the failures of this form of cookery have been due to the misguided zeal with which some enthusiastic housewives have insisted upon pouring puddings, sauces, curries, and “reheats” into paper receptacles, resulting a few hours later in a shapeless mass, unpleasing alike to both eye and palate. Judgment, that most essential of requisites in cookery, paper or otherwise, must of course be brought to bear upon the article in question. It stands to reason that paper-bag cookery is not suited to all foods. Stocks, soups, and sauces, certain vegetables, as12 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. well as food to be fried in deep fat, must still continue to be cooked after the old method, so that saucepan and casserole makers need not actually despair. Fresh meat of all descriptions can be satisfactorily cooked by the bag process; it does not lose nearly so much in weight as when other- wise cooked, and the flavour is vastly superior. Joints may be roasted to per- fection, and stews are excellent, whilst poultry and game, and fish especially, lend themselves admirably to the paper-bag method. Paper-bags again afford an ex- cellent protection to small or fancy bread, scones, cakes, and many puddings. They prevent scorching, and help to distribute the heat more evenly. Experiments in cooking pastry after this method have been entirely successful, as also with milk puddings. Many vegetables, too, are well adapted to being cooked in a bag, but the various plants of the cabbage tribe, and most green vegetables except peas, are best boiled in a saucepan to allow of the escape of purins. Our vegetarian friends have also been heard to say the same about game, and there is no doubt that people suffering from too much uric acid in the system would do well to avoid eating either game or vegetables that have been cooked in sealed paper.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. IB Advantages of the System. What is the secret of this hold that the paper-bag system has taken on the public? asked a writer in a London daily recently. In a world of housewives, weary with the labour of cooking, anything which tends to lessen that labour is welcomed gladly. That is what, according to those who have tried it, the paper-bag system of cooking does. It makes cooking easier, and improves the flavour and nutritive qualities of the food that is cooked in it. Where a gas stove, for instance, is used, there is economy, for the food cooks quicker in an “Express” paper-bag, and therefore less gas is burned. Meat so cooked does not shrink as it does when roasted in the ordinary way. But the greatest boon is the elimination of scullery work. There are no greasy pots and pans to clean; there is only the used paper-bag to throw away. In addition to this the oven used for the paper-bag cooking system will not get dirty, it is as clean and sweet at the conclusion of cooking a meal as it was at the beginning. All those, and there are many thousands by now, who have practised paper-bag cookery, have proved that there is a decided14 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. saving of time, money, fuel, and labour. The saving in fuel alone is estimated to be about 25 per cent., and joints of meat or birds require no basting. Quickness, economy, and added leisure for the cook are notable features of a form of cookery which dispenses with pots and pans. All dishes so prepared entail no watching, no leaning over hot stoves to the ruin of both complexion and temper. Every dish cooks itself in an “ Express ” paper-bag. Paper-bag cookery banishes the dis- agreeable odours inseparable from meal times under the antiquated pot-and-pan regime. It has been proved by expert chefs that the use of “ Express” paper-bags enhances the tenderness, flavour, and food value of every dish. Food is far more nourishing when cooked under the “Express” system ; meat, for instance, increasing at least 35 per cent, in food value. Joints are subject to very little, if any, shrinkage when cooked in “Express” paper-bags. Again, the employment of these bags makes bad cooking impossible if the few simple instructions given are observed. Last, but not least, food so prepared is clean. There should be no contamination whatever of food under this hygienic method.THE PAPEK-BAG COOKEBY MANUAL. 15 There are certain points connected with paper-bag cookery which the amateur would do well to remember: 1. —It shows neither economy nor yet wisdom to use ordinary paper-bags in which goods from shops have been wrapped. These are not only not tough enough, but the paper of which they are composed, and the paste which sticks them together, are actually injurious. The proper bags are not really expensive, and are, provided the right kind is used, thoroughly reliable. 2. —The amateur must see that the bag is properly fastened over the food enclosed within, or the principle underlying all paper- bag cookery is immediately neutralised. The end or opening should be folded several times, and then fastened with one or more paper wire clips, or even with large safety pins. The corners at the bottom of the bag should also be folded to ensure against leakage. Where kitchen paper takes the place of bags, similar results may be obtained by folding the food in two separate pieces of paper, and tucking in the corners two opposite ways; but when “Express ” paper-bags are available such a course is not recommended. 3. —Do not grease too freely, but use discretion. Some foods, such as fish, for instance, need much more greasing than others. Over-greased bags make the16 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. oven smell, and one of the claims of paper- bag cookery is that there should be no smell whilst cooking. 4.—The bags must be laid, not on the ordinary oven shelf, but on a wire grid or trivet, otherwise they will very soon burst, for the air cannot circulate freely. In the case of coal-heated stoves, which have solid shelves, a wire grid or trivet must be placed upon the shelf. The initial heat of the oven should, in the case of cooking meat, be between 275 to 800 degrees Fahrenheit before it is put in, and should be kept at this temperature for 15 or 20 minutes before there is any reduction. The subsequent average heat should not be less than 220 degrees Fahrenheit. When a gas cooking stove is used, the bags should be placed on shelves well out of reach of the flames. No unnecessary expense need be incurred by people who have no cookers, for portable gas rings, tubings, and tin ovens may be purchased inexpensively, and even paraffin oil stoves, with a portable oven, may be successfully utilised.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 17 Instructions for Paper-Bag Cookery. The Bag. In order to prevent any possibility of the paper-bag breaking or bursting, either be- fore or after being placed in the oven, the following directions are offered : Select the size bag which will conveni- ently hold the food intended to be cooked in it. It must not be too large or too small. Examine the bag carefully to see if there is the slightest rent or break. If so, paste over with white of egg or a paste made with flour and water. The least hole in the bag is certain to increase in size when placed in a heated atmosphere, thus causing loss of gravy or juice from food. Cut, saw, or trim off all projecting sharp bones of joints of meat, etc., also fins, or protruding edges from any food that are likely to tear the paper, before placing it in the bags. Without this precaution meat or poultry is likely to cause incisions in bag perhaps unknown to the cook. Before using the bags they must be well greased inside with butter, dripping, lard, or olive oil. This will render them extra grease-proof as well as air-proof, which is very essential to the success of cooking by this process. B18 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. When once the food material necessary for the dish has been placed in the bag, fold the end (the opening) several times, and fasten with one or more paper wire- clips, or with small, thin, wooden skewers, so as to seal hermetically the bag. It is a good plan to fold in also the corners at the bottom of the bag to ensure against leakage. The Oven. The oven in which the food is to be cooked should in the first place be icell heated for about ten minutes before re- quired for use. To ascertain correct heat a cooking thermometer should be used. If this is not available, use a piece of thin white paper, or else throw a little flour on the top shelf. If it turns quickly a light brown, the oven is hot and is right for the first cooking stage. The average oven heat maintained during cooking should never be less than 220 nor more than 800 degrees Fahrenheit. As proving the economy of heat-power effected by paper-bag cookery it only needs to be remarked that the average heat of 220 degrees required for this method is nearly 80 degrees less than that needed (in ordinary baking) for mutton, 90 degrees less than for beef or poultry, and 120 degrees less than for cakes and pastry. The Cooking Process. The paper-bag when filled with the food and ready for cooking must be placed in theTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 19 oven on a so-called grid shelf, such as is usually provided in gas cooking stoves. In the case also of coal heated stoves which have solid shelves, use a wire grid or a good sized trivet; put this on the shelf and place the bag containing the food on it. After the first fifteen or twenty minutes —that is, when the cooking has sufficiently advanced—the heat of the oven must be slightly reduced until the food is quite cooked and tender. A time-table is ap- pended for those not sufficiently acquainted with the exact time required for cooking the various kinds of food. Time-Table. The following table gives the average times when food should be tender and fit to serve: Fish (flat).—Allow from 10 to 15 minutes to the pound. Fish, small fillets (sole or whiting).— From 8 to 10 minutes. Meat (beef and mutton).—20 minutes to the pound. Meat (veal and pork).—25 minutes to the pound. Meat (stews).—About 45 to 60 minutes. Duck.—From 40 to 50 minutes. Chicken.—From 30 to 45 minutes. Fowl (large).—From 40 to 60 minutes, according to size and age. Duckling.—From 85 to 40 minutes. Turkey.—From 2 hours to 2f hours, according to size; if not stuffed allow a little less time.20 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Goose.—From If hours to 2\ hours, according to size. Pigeon.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Game (small birds).—From 15 to 20 minutes. Pheasant.—From 25 to 40 minutes, according to size. Partridge.—From 15 to 30 minutes, according to size. Quail.—From 10 to 12 minutes. Grouse.—From 15 to 25 minutes, ac- cording to size. Sausages.—About 10 minutes. Bacon (sliced).—About 10 minutes. Kidney and Liver (sliced).—About 8 minutes. Vegetable Stews.—From 25 to 30 minutes. Potatoes and Carrots (sliced).—From 25 to 30 minutes. Pastry, Kissoles, and Patties.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Milk Puddings.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Eggs.—About 6 minutes. General Hints. The system of paper-bag cookery may be adopted with advantage in the case of small joints, chickens (whole or cut up into the usual joints), small birds, pigeons and other meat stews, ragouts, etc., various kinds of fish, notably cod, salmon, turbot, and halibut (cut in slices), sole, whiting, mullet, mackerel, herrings, haddock, etc., all kinds of game, partridge, grouse, etc., certainTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 21 vegetables, such as potatoes, mushrooms, tomatoes, broad beans, vegetable marrow, etc., also cakes and pastry, milk puddings, meat and fruit pies. When cooking milk puddings in paper- bags the pudding must be made in the ordinary way in a shallow pie-dish. This is then slipped in a paper-bag, carefully folded at the end and fastened with clips, and then placed on a grid in the oven. NOTE.—The times given for cooking are only approximate as so much depends on the heat at which the oven is uniformly maintained. Successful results must of course he a matter of experience. Flavour. Conservation of flavour is a special claim of paper-bag cookery. This is a point which has hitherto been grossly neglected by the majority of English cooks. Not only have we failed to practise sufficiently slow-cooking methods, such as steaming, stewing, braising, etc., in which our Conti- nental neighbours have always excelled themselves, and to which the success of the foreign cuisines is so largely owing, but we have committed even worse blunders, so that English cookery has at times become the laughing-stock of the nations. Our joints have been subjected to pro- longed, scorching heat, or else sodden in22 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. flavourless water. Our fruit and vegetables, after undergoing surgical treatment of the severest kind, by means of which a large portion of their valuable salts and acids were lost irremediably, have been plunged, according to the same clumsy methods, into oceans of fast boiling water, and galloped mercilessly to their doom. Small wonder is it that “tough” and “tasteless” are the only adjectives which foreigners know to apply to English cookery. But paper-bag cookery, from its very nature, has achieved an entire reformation in this direction, and has probably done more than centuries of criticism to wipe out our national reproach as regards lack of flavour. Chefs, from time immemorial, have adopted protective measures to ensure the utmost piquancy to their more perish- ably flavoured dainties, but the paper-bag system has ushered in a beneficient era of democracy by which cheap and costly foods alike may be made to yield the utmost fragrance of which each is capable. By means of paper envelopes, the coarser kinds of food develop a most attractive savour which gourmands and fastidious eaters would never credit such items could possess. The housewife, whose purse is limited, may therefore pluck up heart, for even if her table cannot compete on the same terms with that of her wealthier sister, she can at least take courage at the thought that her family is being providedTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 23 with the most nutritive and appetising materials that it is possible to purchase for the money she can spend on them. Increase of flavour naturally means increase of enjoyment, and good digestion follows as a matter of course, when human beings are obedient to nature’s dictum that food can nourish the system only when it is eaten with a relish. The reason, of course, for the extraordinarily appetising nature of food cooked in bags is due to the fact that all the essential qualities and inherent goodness is preserved from dissi- pation. The envelope not only maintains the requisite heat, regulating it at the same time, but conserves the natural juices, whether of meat, fish, fruit, or vegetables, which were formerly lost by ignorance and carelessness, and mistaken ideas of cooking. The subtle salts and acids, the essential oils, the perishable fumet, are all alike preserved, and in consequence the loss of weight after cooking is barely perceptible, so that the true ends of economy are thereby served. Economy. The economy of paper-bag cookery is easily apparent. This, with the conversa- tion of flavour, are the two chief bids in the phenomenal popularity by which this method of cookery has been received by the country. Economy of time, labour, money, food material, and one might justly add24 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. temper, for cooks in the past, owing to constant contact with great heat, have been noticeably lacking in the last-named virtue. Time and Labour. Economy of time and labour. The old era of oven-cleaning and pot-scouring, constant supervision, and frequent basting, has passed for ever. The twentieth century scullery will be an interesting relic for future denizens of this planet to look back upon, but not to imitate. Indirectly, this lessening of kitchen labour will do wonders towards solving the servant problem, either in the direction of doing without extra help, or by so ameliorating the conditions of the average household, that domestic service will come to be looked upon with greater enthusiasm than has lately been evident. This boon of economy of time, too, can hardly be over-estimated in importance by the mothers of large families, and busy bachelors of small means and of both sexes, not to mention the countless thousands of flat-dwellers in our great cities. Money. Economy of money. This applies two ways, one as regards the saving of scrubbing materials, soap, soda, polishing agents, etc., and the necessity for replenishing or repairing the various utensils formerly used in every kitchen, the other as regards food. Cheap, and perhaps somewhat coarse foods,THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 25 previously regarded with disfavour by all but the lower classes, can now be made, with paper-bag assistance, so surprisingly attractive that there will be no occasion to strain the dimensions of the most modest purse in order to secure a higher-priced dainty. Food. Economy of food material. In the past nobody ever expected that foods, such as meat, fish, or vegetables, should be of either the same size or weight after cooking as before. The shrinkage in the joint, or the dish of depleted vegetables, was looked upon by the household as inevitable, and a necessary evil. But now, nous avons change tout cela. Paper-bag cookery has achieved the maximum of food material with the minimum of expenditure of heat to a degree never yet attained by any form of civilised or uncivilised cookery. Perhaps the most popular of all the recent paper- bag demonstrations up and down the country, was one where two joints of meat were cooked simultaneously by both the old and new methods, to prove this point of economy of food material in the latter case. An ordinary joint of beef, weighing 4 lbs. 4 ozs., was placed in a buttered bag, and deposited on a trivet on the shelf of the demonstration gas oven. Almost simul- taneously another joint of beef, weighing26 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 3 lbs. 14 ozs., was placed in another oven in a tin, and cooked after the old-fashioned method. After the cooking both joints were weighed. The paper-bag joint just tipped the scale at 4 lbs. J-oz., showing a shrinkage of only 3£ ozs. in the cooking. The second joint, cooked after the old method, turned the scale at 3 lbs. 3£ ozs., showing a shrinkage of not less than 10£ ozs., exactly three times the amount recorded in the case of the first joint. These statements are based on actual tests that have been made for the purpose of comparison. The Hygienic Safety of the System. The question as to the gaseous effects of paper-bag cookery on the food has been so often raised, and is of such supreme im- portance that too great care cannot be taken to go into the matter scientifically and discover what are actually the hygienic properties of food when cooked in this way. The safety to the cook is, of course, assured. No danger or detriment lurks in the system for him or her. But it is equally and even more necessary that the consumer should be able to indulge in paper-cooked food without the slightest qualms as to his health or digestion. In this connection, then, the opinion of a well known analyst, whose laboratory we sought, is of the utmost value. Here are his words:THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 27 “If the food is fresh and good before cooking it will be fresh and good after cooking; if it were tainted and decomposed before, the cooking will not make it safe, pot or bag, because poisonous products of decomposition may remain. Moreover, the ‘Express’ paper-bags when fastened as directed are not gas-tight. If they were they would burst. The poisonous effect of some foods,” he continued, “is not due to any gaseous or readily volatile matter, but to alkaloidal and similar substances pro- duced by bacterial development. The bacteria themselves are killed by proper cooking, whether in pots or in ‘Express’ bags. The products of decomposition, however, once formed, remain almost wholly after cooking, whether in pots or bags. Cooking in ‘Express’ bags,” the analyst added, “has an important advantage over the pot-and- pan system, inasmuch as it tends materially to diminish the possibility of the contami- nation of food.”28 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. An Ideal Oven Thermometer. A Culinary Thermometer is indispensable for successful and uniform cooking results. By its help the various heats required for cooking every kind of food are shown. It also serves for registering oven or pot heats. SENN’S OVEN THERMOMETER is acknowledged by all chefs who have used it to be the most useful instrument in the market for their purpose, giving reliable information, performing its work with mathematical accuracy, and registering every degree of heat from 100 to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. It is good news to all cooks who have to study economy in the kitchen that Senn’s Oven Thermometer can now be obtained for 2s. 6d. The new thermometer is exactly the same reliable guide as the dearer varieties, differing only that the cheaper kind is made of earthenware, instead of brass. It is perfectly adapted for testing heats inside an oven or for hanging on pots, and is specially suitable, in fact absolutely necessary, for Paper-Bag Cookery, where so much depends on knowing exactly when the food is properly cooked and tender. The essential thing in an instrument of this nature is its accuracy and the knowledge it imparts. In these respects Senn’s Oven Thermometer is unrivalled, and at the modest price of 2s. 6d., it is now brought within the reach of all. This useful instrument can be obtained from the Office of The “ DAILY EXPRESS,” 23, St. Bride Street, E.C., post free for 2s. 9d.; or from The INVENTOR, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.W.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 29 FISH. Boiled Fish. Cod, salmon, turbot, halibut, trout, or any other kind of fish suitable for boiling, can be cooked successfully with water in a paper-bag. After cleaning, trimming, and wiping the fish thoroughly, butter the inside of an “Express” paper-bag of suitable size, then put in the fish, with one or two slices of onion and carrot, a little vinegar or lemon juice, and enough salted water to well moisten the fish. Allow about a pint of water to 2 lbs. of fish. Fold in the end of the bag with two folds, then fasten with several wire clips, and place it carefully on to a cold wire tray or grid and put it in the oven to cook. The oven should register about 225 degrees when the fish is put in. The time required for cooking depends greatly on the shape and thickness of the fish. 2 lbs. of turbot will take about 25 to 80 minutes. To serve, take out the bag carefully with the grid; slit the paper and lift out the fish with a fish slice, or small skimmer, and place it on a hot dish; garnish with sprigs of parsley and serve.30 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Fish Sauces. The liquor or stock from the fish should be utilised for making a tasty sauce. Strain the required quantity of liquor into a hot basin and stir in enough cream to thicken; if like richer, one or two yolks of eggs should be stirred into the cream before mixing it with the fish liquor. This would be called cream sauce. By adding a little anchovy essence, anchovy sauce is produced, whilst by adding some chopped parsley, maitre cVhotel or parsley sauce is produced. Salt and pepper should be added to taste. Baked Herrings. Remove the heads from three or four fresh herrings. Split them open, and take out the backbones. Season the inside with salt and pepper, and dip them in a little milk, and dredge with Scotch oatmeal. Melt some fat and with it brush over the prepared herrings. Then place them side by side in a paper-bag, fasten the end, and cook on a wire grid or a perforated shelf in a hot oven for about 10 minutes. Dish up and serve. Baked Mackerel. Procure a good-sized mackerel, wipe it with a damp cloth; split it open and remove the bones, also the head and fins. Prepare a stuffing composed of 2 ozs. of chopped beef suet, two to three table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one tea-spoonful of savoury herbs and some chopped parsley. Spread theTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 31 inside of the mackerel with this, fold over and put the fish in a greased paper-bag, pour a little oiled butter over the fish, and fasten the bag securely. Bake on a wire grid in a moderate oven for about 25 minutes. Dish up and serve plain or with anchovy sauce. Fillets of Mackerel. Procure two good-sized mackerel, wipe them, and carefully remove the fish from the bones. Place the fillets thus obtained in a deep dish, season with salt and pepper and a little lemon juice, then pour over a table-spoonful of vinegar, and add a few thinly cut slices of carrot and onion, and one bav leaf; cover the dish and allow to stand for about half an hour. Take up the fish and drain on a cloth; put the cut vegetables in a well buttered grease-proof paper-bag, and upon them place the fillets of fish, skin downwards, then brush over wfith a little oil or butter. Fold over the end of the bag, fasten with clips, and cook in a quick oven on a grid or trivet from 8 to 10 minutes. Take out the bag, remove the fish on to a hot dish, put a little neatly shaped parsley butter on top of each, garnish with thin slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Parsley Butter. Mix 1 oz. of fresh butter with a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of chopped mixed tarragon and chervil, a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and a pinch of32 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. salt and pepper. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and shape into pats when quite firm. Cod Steak with Ham. Procure two slices of cod, each weighing from half to three-quarters of a pound. Wipe it and place on a buttered dish. Prepare a mixture of bread crumbs, savoury herbs, and parsley, and bind it with a little beaten egg. Place this upon each slice of fish and season with salt and pepper. Put a slice of raw ham or lean bacon on top of each, then place the fish in a well greased “ Express ” paper-bag, fold the end and fasten with clips. Put the bag on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven. Bake for about 20 minutes. Dish up, and, if liked, pour round some anchovy sauce, and serve. Skate. Procure the skate skinned, cut into strips and twisted into rings. Skinning skate is a rather difficult operation; it is therefore advisable to get it ready skinned from the fishmonger. Put the fish into a well buttered paper-bag, with enough salted water to just cover it; add a bay leaf, a few slices of onion, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Fold the bag and fasten with wire clips, then place it on a wire grid in a moderate oven, and cook for about 20 minutes. Take up the fish and drain, and put it on a hot dish. Pour over a little hot butter and some chopped parsley, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 33 Fillets of Plaice. Remove the fillets from a medium-sized plaice, cut each fillet in two, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over a little lemon juice, fold each fillet in two or roll up (skin inwards). Put a small piece of butter on top of each, and place carefully in a buttered “ Express ” paper-bag, fasten the ends with clips, and cook for about 10 minutes on a wire grid in a hot oven. Cut open the bag and lift out the fish carefully on to a hot dish. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Stuffed Haddock. Wash, scale, and wipe a good-sized fresh haddock; remove the eyes. Prepare a stuffing with two table-spoonfuls of chopped suet, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, half tea-spoonful of herbs, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season with salt and pepper. Moisten the stuffing with half an egg. Stuff the body of the fish and sew up the opening, or simply fold in ends. Brush it over with beaten egg, and sprinkle over some browned bread crumbs, and place a few very small pieces of dripping, wrap carefully in greased paper-bag, fold the end and fasten with wire clips, and place on a wire grid in the oven. Bake in a fairly hot oven from 25 to 80 minutes, according to size of fish. Dish up, remove the string, and serve.34 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Fillets of Haddock. Cut the fillets neatly from a good-sized fresh haddock, cut each fillet in two, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over a little lemon juice. Put a small piece of butter on top of each fillet, and place care- fully in a well buttered paper-bag, fold in twice, fasten the ends with clips, and cook for about 10 minutes on wire grid in a hot oven. Fillets of Haddock with Anchovy Butter. Procure a large haddock, remove the fillets, and skin carefully; wipe them with a cloth, squeeze over a little lemon juice, then dredge both sides with seasoned flour (flour mixed with salt and pepper). Sprinkle over with clarified butter, and place the fillets in a well buttered “ Express ” paper-bag, fold in the ends and fasten with clips, then cook on a grid shelf in a hot oven from 10 to 12 minutes. Take up the fish, range on a hot dish, put a small pat of anchovy butter on top of each fillet, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Grilled Sole. Skin a large sole, cut off the head, trim it, and brush it over with oil or melted butter. Place it in a well greased “ Express ” paper-bag, put it on the gridiron, and grill it over or in front of a brisk but clear fire. The bars of the gridiron should be slightlyTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 35 greased before laying on the fish. It will take about 10 minutes to cook, more or less according to size. Slit the bag open, remove the fish carefully, and put it on a hot dish, garnish with a few slices of cut lemon and parsley. If liked, the sole may be first dipped in flour before being grilled. Note.—A little parsley butter (maitre d'hotel butter) spread over the fish before serving is a great improvement. Fried Fillets of Sole. Remove the skin and fins from two soles, cut off the head portion, dip the fish fillets in milk and then in flour. Put them in a well buttered “ Express ” paper-bag with about 2 ozs. of clarified butter, fold in the end of the bag and fasten with clips, place on a wire grid, and cook in a very hot oven for about 20 minutes. Turn the bag twice during the cooking process. Take up the fish, drain, and dish up, garnish with quarters of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Fillets of Sole (Whitebait fashion). Skin and fillet one large or two small soles, cut the fillets into fine shreds or strips the size of whitebait. Put them in a cloth and sprinkle over with seasoned flour, fold in a cloth, shake well, then put the fish in a thickly buttered paper-bag, distribute about an ounce of oiled butter36 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. over the fish, fold in the bag and fasten with clips, then place it in a hot oven on a grid shelf or trivet, and cook for about 20 minutes. Turn the bag twice during the process of cooking. To serve, slit the bag open, and put the contents on a hot dish; garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. Sole a la Creme. Skin both sides of a fairly thick sole, trim off the head and fins, and proceed to cook it in a paper-bag as directed for Turbot a la Creme. Souchet of Fish. This can be made of flounder or sole, or an}7 other kind of white fish. If soles are used they must be skinned on both sides. Trim the fish and wipe it thoroughly. Peel one small onion, half a small turnip, a small carrot, and cut each into thin slices, then into fine julienne strips. Put the fish with the vegetables in a well buttered paper-bag, the fish should be put between the veget- ables, add as much salted water as may be required to well moisten the fish (half to three-quarters of a pint). Fold in the bag and fasten with clips, turn up the corners and put it carefully on a grid shelf into a moderate oven. It will take about half an hour to 40 minutes to cook the fish and vegetables. Take out the fish, put it on a hot dish, and sprinkle over the vegetables and a little stock; sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and garnish with sections of lemon;THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 37 serve with a plate of thinly cut brown bread and butter. Broiled Salmon Steak. Obtain two or three slices of salmon about half an inch thick, season with salt and pepper, and brush over with olive oil, then place them in a well oiled “Express” paper-bag. Fold over the end of the bag, fasten with clips, and place it on a grill over or in front of the fire, or in the oven on a grid shelf, and cook for about 10 minutes. When done slit open the bag and place the cooked fish neatly on a hot dish; garnish with parsley; squeeze over a few drops of lemon juice, and serve hot. Curried Salmon Steak. Procure one or two slices of salmon (middle cut), wipe them with a damp cloth, season both sides with salt and pepper, and brush over with best olive oil. Sprinkle over the top of each a mixture composed of bread crumbs, a little curry powder, some finely chopped onion and parsley, also a few tiny pieces of butter. Slip carefully into a buttered “Express” paper-bag, fold over the end and fasten with clips, then place in a fairly hot oven on a grid or trivet, and cook for about 15 to 20 minutes. When done, slit open the bag and place the fish on a hot dish. Have ready the following mixture: Cut into fine shreds four pickled French gherkins, and mix with about a table-spoonful of38 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. piccalilli, also cut into shreds. Heat this up with a little curry sauce, and serve with the salmon steaks. Note.—A dish of plainly cooked rice (see Vegetable Recipes) should be handed round at the same time. Salmon Cutlets with Fine Herbs. Cut from the middle-cut or jowl end of salmon the required number of slices, not too thickly, then cut each in half; this will resemble as near as possible cutlet shapes; wipe each with a damp cloth and trim slightly. Mix on a plate some oiled butter with some finely chopped parsley, and two peeled and finely chopped shallots. When thoroughly blended dip each cutlet into this so as to coat both sides. Place them side by side into a well buttered grease- proof paper-bag, close up the end, put it on a grid, allow to cook in a fairly hot oven for about 15 minutes, then slit open the bag, dish up, and range the fish nicely on a hot dish. Squeeze a little lemon juice over each cutlet; garnish with slices of lemon and parsley sprigs, and serve with marble potatoes. Marble Potatoes. Scoop out several large peeled potatoes into little round balls by means of a veget- able cutter or scoop. Season with salt and pepper, and pour over a little oiled butter; then put the potatoes into a well-buttered paper-bag, and bake in a hot oven. WhenTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 39 done, take the potatoes out of the bag and dish up; sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and serve. Salmon Coquilles. Not only salmon, but almost any kind of cold fish, can be used up in this way, either as a luncheon or supper dish. Free the remains of cold salmon, say three-quarters of a pound, free from skin and bones, and divide into small flakes. Melt an ounce of butter, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour and cook a little without browning; then add gradually half a pint of milk and half a gill of cream, a small blade of mace and a piece of carrot. Boil up, and cook for at least 15 minutes, then strain. Butter a number of clean and dry scallop shells, put a table-spoonful of the prepared sauce in1 each; upon this put a layer of flakes of salmon, season with salt and pepper, and fill the shells with more sauce and salmon. Lastly, cover with a thin layer of sauce, sprinkle over some freshly made bread crumbs, and a few tiny bits of butter. Place these in an “ Express ” paper- bag, fold in the end of the bag and fasten with two or three wire clips, then put care- fully on to a grid and cook in a fairly hot oven for about 15 minutes. Salmon Croquettes. Half of a pound cooked salmon, quarter of a pound cooked rice, one tea-spoonful each of chopped onion or shallot and40 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. chopped parsley, half an ounce butter, a little milk or fish stock, one egg, bread crumbs, salt and pepper. Free the fish from skin and bone and chop it finely. Mix the fish with the cooked rice, and season it with salt and pepper. Mix the onion or shallot with a little oiled butter, and add it with the parsley to the fish and rice, then moisten with a little stock or milk; heat it up. Spread this mixture evenly on a plate to cool, then make up into neat cutlet shapes. Brush them over with beaten egg mixed with a little milk, cover them well with bread crumbs, reshape, and place them carefully into a wrell greased “ Express ” paper-bag. Pour over about three table- spoonfuls of clarified butter, close up the bag, fasten the end with wire clips, and cook on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. Open the bag, take out the croquettes, dish up, and garnish with parsley. Paupiettes of Turbot. Bone about 2 lbs. of turbot (thin end) and remove the black skin, cut the fish into eight portions, flatten each piece with a wet cutlet pat, then cut into even-sized fillets about the same size as fillets of soles, flatten each again and trim a little, season with salt and pepper. Chop finely a peeled shallot, also three sprigs of parsley, six preserved mushrooms, and mix with half of a pound whiting forcemeat;THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 41 spread this on one side of each prepared fillet and roll up neatly. Butter some strips of white paper and roll up each fillet in paper. Arrange them closely in an upright position in a well buttered paper- bag, moisten with a little white wine and mushroom liquor, then fold in the end of the bag, and fasten securely. Now place the bag on a grid shelf in a hot oven and cook from 20 to 25 minutes. Take up the bag carefully, remove the paper, and range the fish neatly on to a hot dish. Turbot a la Creme. Procure a small piece (about 1\ lbs.) of turbot, remove the black skin and wipe the fish with a damp cloth, season with salt, put it in a well buttered paper-bag, with a small onion, sliced, a gill of water, a gill of milk, and, if liked, the juice of half a lemon. Fold in the end of the bag and fasten with clips; turn up, also, the four corners of the bag and place it in the oven on a wire grid, cook in moderate heat for about 25 minutes, or longer, according to the thickness of the fish. When done, slit open the bag care- fully, take out the turbot, and put it on a hot dish; mix, in a small basin previously heated, a little cream with a yolk of egg, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, pour in the liquid found in the paper-bag, stir well, and pour over the fish; garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve hot.42 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Red Mullet a la Maitre d’Hotel. Procure three or four fresh red mullets, wipe them with a damp cloth, and make three or four incisions across each fish with a sharp knife. Put the fish on a dish, pour over three or four table-spoonfuls of salad oil, season with salt and pepper, and let them stand thus for about one hour. Meanwhile, prepare some maitre d'hotel butter as follows:—Mix 1 oz. of fresh butter with one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of tarragon and one of chervil finely chopped, one tea-spoonful of lemon juice, a pinch of salt and pepper. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and shape into pats when quite firm. Put the mullet in a well buttered paper bag, fold in the ends and fasten with clips, then place on a grid shelf in a hot oven, and cook for about 25 minutes. Put the fish on a hot dish, place the parsley butter on top, and serve. Steamed Whiting. Skin two or three small whiting, treat them the same as for frying, and curl up. Place them in a well buttered “ Express ” paper-bag, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over each a little lemon juice. Fold over the end of the bag and fasten with clips, then cook for about 15 minutes on a grid shelf in a hot oven. Take the fish out of the paper-bag, place it on a^ hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemon and sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve.THE PAPEE-BAG COOKEBY MANUAL. 4a Fried Whiting. Cut off the fins of three or four whiting, skin them (commencing at the head), take out the eyes, and put the tail through the mouth. Dredge each with flour and season with salt and pepper, next brush over with beaten egg and >'oll in bread crumbs. Have ready a well oiled or thickly buttered “Express” paper-bag, put in it the fish with about 2 ozs. of clarified butter, fold in the end of the bag and fasten with clips. Place the bag carefully on a wire grid in a very hot oven, and cook for about 15 minutes. Dish up, garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve hot. Baked Fillets of Whiting. Skin three whitings, remove the fillets carefully, sprinkle over with lemon juice, and fold each over; range them in a double row in a well buttered “Express” paper- bag. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little white wine and some mush- room liquor. Place a row of thinly sliced, preserved mushrooms on the fillets, and sprinkle over with fine bread crumbs (fresh or dried), put a tiny piece of butter here and there on top; fold in the end of the bag, fasten with clips, and bake on a grid shelf in a moderately heated oven for about 15 minutes. When done, open the bag, dish up the fish, and sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley; serve hot.44 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Whiting a la Meuniere. Procure two, or more, medium-sized whitings, skin them the same as for frying, season with salt and pepper, and dip in flour; brush over with beaten egg, then slip each fish carefully into a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, and pour a tea- spoonful of clarified butter over each fish. Fold over the end of the bag and fasten with clips; place on a grid in the oven and cook from 10 to 12 minutes, according to the size of the fish. To serve, slit open the bag and place the fish on to a hot dish, pour over the butter remaining in the bag, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and serve hot. Fish Cakes. Take half a pound of cold fish, freed from skin and bones, half a pound of cooked potatoes, 1 oz. of butter or dripping, two table-spoonfuls of milk, salt and pepper, one egg, and bread crumbs. Chop the fish finely; mash the potatoes and mix them with the fish, season with salt and pepper; melt the butter or dripping, add the fish, etc., to it, then mix all together with the milk. Shape the mixture into small flat cakes of even size. Beat up the egg on a plate, then egg and bread-crumb the cakes, and again shape. Now put them into a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, close up the end, and fasten with wire clips; put into a very hot oven on a grid shelf and cook for about 20 minutes; turn theTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 45 bag twice during the cooking process. Cut open the bag with scissors, and place the fish cakes on to a hot dish; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Fish Pie. Mash about a pound of potatoes whilst hot, and mix with 2 ozs. of butter, and about two table-spoonfuls of milk, season with salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and mix wrell. Free about a pound of cold cooked fish from skin and bone, flake it finely, and put it into a greased shallow pie dish previously lined with mashed potatoes, season the fish with salt and pepper. Pour in half a gill of fish stock, or if there is any fish sauce left over it may be used instead of stock. Cover the dish neatly with mashed potatoes, smooth the surface with a fork and make a fancy pattern, brush over lightly with some beaten egg. Slip the dish into an “Express” paper bag, fold in the end of the bag and fasten with clips, and bake on a grid shelf in a moderately heated oven from 25 to 30 minutes. Note.—Almost an}^ kind of fish may be used for this dish. In place of stock, milk may be used. Herring Roes on Toast. Place six to eight herring roes in a well buttered paper-bag, sprinkle over a finely chopped shallot, and about half an ounce of oiled butter, also a tea-spoonful of lemon46 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. juice. Fold the bag and fasten the end with clips, then place it on a grid shelf in a hot oven and bake for about 8 minutes. Mix 1 oz. of anchovy paste with about half an ounce of butter and spread over two slices of toasted bread; cut this into con- venient pieces about the size of the roes. Take up the roes, put each on a piece of prepared toast; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Fillets of Bloater with Cheese. Skin two large-sized bloaters, split them down the back, remove the bones, brush over the fillets thoroughly with oiled butter, and place them in a greased paper-bag; cover the surface with grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, fold in the end of the bag, and place on a grid shelf or trivet in a hot oven for about 10 minutes. Slit open the bag and take out the fish carefully. Have ready some hot buttered pieces of toasted bread, cut these in convenient pieces, put a bloater fillet on each, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Twice Laid. This is the name of dish in which cold fish and potatoes are used. Mash about a pound of cold potatoes with a fork, remove the skin and bones from half a pound of cold fish, and break it up into flakes, mix with the potatoes, and season with salt and pepper. Melt an ounce of dripping, when hot mix it with theTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 47 fish and potatoes, and shape into a flat cake. Place this in a well greased paper-bag, fold the end and fasten with clips, put it on a wire grid and bake in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. Trout a la Royale. Clean two trout, weighing about a pound each, wash, drain, and wipe the fish; knead a table-spoonful of flour with 2 ozs. of butter, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy paste; mix well, and put the mixture evenly divided inside the trout; season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over a little lemon juice. Have ready a well buttered paper-bag, lay in it the trout, and add a gill of water, a little mushroom liquor, or a little claret; close up the bag securely, fasten with wire clips, and place on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven; cook for about 20 or 25 minutes. To serve, cut open the bag, and place the fish carefully on a hot dish, pour the sauce round the base; garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. Curried Prawns. Skin about fifty prawns, if preserved ones are used, soak, wash, and drain them first; sprinkle over a small minced onion and about 2 ozs. of oiled butter; next, dredge over a little flour, and one dessert-spoonful of curry powder, then moisten with half a pint of milk; season to taste with salt and pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Put48 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. all carefully in a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, place it on a grid shelf in the oven, and cook for about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Dish up the prawns with the sauce in the centre of a border of boiled rice. Stewed Scallops. Wipe and trim six scallops, cut each in four, and season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Sprinkle over a dessert- spoonful of flour and a little oiled butter; cut eight preserved mushrooms into slices and put them with the scallops in a well buttered paper-bag, adding a bay leaf and a gill of milk; close up the bag securely, place it on a grid shelf, and cook in a moderately heated oven for about 20 minutes. Dish up the scallops and mushrooms with the sauce; remove the bay leaf, sprinkle over a little grated cheese, and serve. Creamed Oysters. Remove the beards from a dozen large oysters; stir the liquor into a basin con- taining a yolk of egg and a dessert-spoonful of cornflour, to this add a little lemon juice and half a gill of cream or milk, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; cut each oyster in two and put them with six sliced mushrooms in a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, pour in also the prepared liquid; close up the bag securely with clips, put it on a wire grid in a moderately heated oven, and cook for about 12 minutes.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 49 Dish up the oysters, pour over the sauce, sprinkle some chopped parsley on top, and garnish with slices of lemon and sippets of toasted bread; serve hot. Breaded Oysters. Remove the beards from twelve large oysters, drain them on a cloth, and egg them carefully, then roll in fresh bread crumbs; put them in a thickly buttered paper-bag with about two table-spoonfuls of oiled butter, close up the bag securely, and cook on a grid shelf in a hot oven for about 8 minutes. Oyster Cakes. Take a dozen large sauce oysters, remove their beards, and put these with the oyster liquid into a basin, and mix up with three table-spoonfuls of rich white sauce. Add a little cream, and stir in one or two yolks of eggs and a cupful of bread crumbs, or finely crushed cracknels, or milk biscuits. Divide the oysters into quarters and mix with the above, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate with the above. Put the mixture into one or two small well buttered “ Express ” paper-bags, duly fastened at end, and bake on a wire grid in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. Slit open the bags and take out the cakes, put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. D50 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. MEAT. Roast Joints. Trim the meat, if necessary, and cut off any projecting bones, as these often cause the paper-bags to burst, wipe it with a cloth, then weigh the joint. Allow from 20 to 25 minutes to each pound of meat. Veal and pork require a little more time than beef or mutton, as the former should always be well done. Dredge the cut side of the joint with flour, seasoned with salt and pepper. Have ready the correct size of an “ Express” paper-bag, select it rather too large than too small, so that there is no possible chance of its breaking when the joint is put in. After spreading a little dripping or butter over the meat, put it in a well greased paper-bag. Fasten the end after folding it, with several wire clips. Next place it on a grid shelf in a hot oven and cook till tender. When done, open the bag and dish up the meat. Serve with gravy. The time required for cooking depends upon the size and weight of the joint; it is safe to allow about 20 minutes to every pound. For other information on this point the time table found at the beginning of this book should be consulted.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 51 Gravy for Roast Meats. Pour any fat found in the bag whilst warm into a basin, which keep for future use. Put a little hot water or stock into a basin containing the liquor from the roast meat, stand it in the hot oven, and add a little “ Bisto ” or gravy salt. This will colour the gravy. Season with pepper and salt, and strain over the meat on the dish. When the joint is cut some of its juice will run out and will improve the gravy already in the dish. Boiled Beef. Procure about 2 lbs. of salt beef and soak it for several hours in cold water. Peel and scrape two small turnips and two carrots, cut them into quarters, and put them with the meat in a well greased “ Express ” bag of the required size. Add as much water as the bag with its contents will conveniently hold and fold in the end, fasten with wire clips, and place it on a cold wire grid into a moderately heated oven. Cook thus for about 50 or 60 minutes. When done take up the meat, put it on a hot dish, garnish with the cooked vegetables, and pour over a little of the liquor. Serve with boiled suet dumplings. Suet Dumplings. Mix 6 ozs. of sifted flour with 3 ozs. of finely chopped beef suet and a pinch of salt, also half a tea-spoonful of baking52 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. powder. Moisten with enough cold water to produce a fairly stiff paste. Make this up into small balls and put them in a well greased paper-bag, with about half a pint of water. Fold in the end of the bag and fasten with wire clips, place it on a wire grid in a hot oven and cook for about 85 to 40 minutes. Chops and Steaks. These can be successfully cooked in paper-bags. Wipe the meat and trim off some of the fat, if found necessary. Chops should be skewered to keep them in shape. Season with salt and pepper and brush over the chops or steaks with oiled butter. Put them in a well greased “ Express ” paper-bag, place on a grid shelf in a hot oven and cook for about 15 or 18 minutes, according to the thickness of the meat. A little parsley butter, that is, butter mixed with salt and pepper, lemon juice, and chopped parsley, should be put on the meat when dished up. There is usually a little gravy in the bag in which chops or steaks are cooked. This should be poured over the meat. Pork Sausages. Divide a pound of sausages and prick them with the prongs of a fork, then put them side by side into a well greased paper- bag, close it up and fasten with clips. Place on a wire grid and cook in a fairly hot oven for about 15 minutes.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 53 Mutton Cutlets. Cut the best end of neck of mutton into neat cutlets, flatten each, and trim neatly. Season with salt and pepper, and place in a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, fold in the ends, fasten with clips, and cook in a fairly hot oven on a grid shelf from 12 to 15 minutes. Farced Mutton Cutlets. Cut the required number of cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, beat each a little with a cutlet bat and trim neatly. Put an ounce of butter in a paper-bag, place in the cutlets, fold the bag securely, and let them get slightly browned, then take them up, drain them, and season with salt and pepper. Press them till cold. Spread over one side of each cutlet thickly with sausage meat mixed with bread crumbs and a little milk, smooth over the surface with the blade of a knife, and besprinkle with finely chopped ham. Now put the cutlets in a buttered paper-bag, fold it securely, and place it on a grid shelf in a hot oven and cook for 10 minutes. Dish up the cutlets neatly and serve with tomato sauce or gravy. Mutton Cutlets with Tomatoes. Flatten slightly and trim neatly six or more mutton cutlets, season each side with salt and pepper, and place a slice of tomato upon each. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley and chives, then put the cutlets54 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. carefully into one or more buttered “Express” paper-bags, place in a very hot oven on a grid or trivet and cook from 12 to 15 minutes. To serve, cut open the paper- bag and take out the cutlets carefully, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and send to table. Mutton Rolls. Cut about one and a half pounds of lean mutton (shoulder or leg) into slices about three inches long, season with pepper and salt, and besprinkle one side with chopped capers and parsley, then roll up with a small piece of sheep’s kidney and fasten on skewers; brush over with oiled butter, and enclose them in a greased paper-bag, fasten securely, and put on a grid shelf or trivet in a hot oven; cook for about 35 minutes. Open the paper-bag, take out the meat, remove the skewers, and dish up the meat rolls neatly on a hot dish. Serve with piquante sauce, and with potato puree as an accompaniment. Veal Cutlets. Procure about four or five veal cutlets from the best end of the neck of veal. Flatten with a cutlet bat, then trim the sides neatly and scrape the bones clean, season each with salt and pepper. Melt about half an ounce of butter, and add to it about a tea-spoonful of finely chopped parsley, one small peeled and finely chopped shallot, and a little lemon juice. BrushTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 55 over each side of the cutlets with this, then place them side by side into a thickly buttered paper-bag, fold in and fasten the ends, then put the bag on a grid shelf or trivet and cook in a hot oven from 18 to 20 minutes. Slit open the bag, and arrange the cutlets neatly on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve with a sharp tomato or piquante sauce. Note.—If liked, a few finely cut slices of streaky bacon can be cooked at the same time as the cutlets. These can be placed on top of the cutlets, or may be cooked in a separate bag. Veal Steak with Mushrooms. Procure a thick fillet or steak cut from the leg-part of veal and flatten with a bat. Brush over both sides with the cut side of a lemon, then season with salt and pepper. Put a thinly cut slice of gammon on top, then place into a well buttered grease-proof paper-bag, fold over the end and fasten with clips. Place in a very hot oven on a grid shelf or trivet and cook quickly for the first 5 or 6 minutes, allowing altogether from 12 to 15 minutes, according to the thickness of the meat. To serve, slit open the paper-bag and carefully take out the steak, place on a hot dish together with the slice of gammon. Round the dish range neatly some broiled cup mushrooms, or baked tomatoes, and send to table hot. This dish is particularly nice if served with kidney potatoes.56 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Veal Olives with Tomato Sauce. Cut into rather thin slices about 1| lbs. of lean veal (loin, neck, or cushion part). Shape them into ovals and flatten out the ends by means of a cutlet bat, chop the meat trimmings very finely together with 2 ozs. of cooked ham and a few preserved mushrooms. Mix this with a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 oz. of soft bread crumbs, and moisten with a beaten egg, season with salt and pepper, and stir well. Spread one side of the veal slices with a layer of this mixture and roll up each, tie with a piece of very thin string or twine, and place them in a well buttered paper- bag, previously lined with thinly cut slices of bacon, a sliced carrot and onion (the latter may, if liked, be previously fried with a little butter). Lastly, add about a gill of stock, half a gill of well reduced tomato sauce, and a small glass of claret or sherry. Fold the open end of the bag carefully and fasten with clips, then put it on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven to cook for about 35 minutes; by this time the meat and stuffing should be quite tender. Kemove the bag from the oven, slit it open, and take out the meat rolls, remove the string, dish up the meat, and strain the sauce over. Beef Rolls or Olives. Proceed the same as directed for veal olives, only substituting lean beef (rump steak or top side) for veal.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 57 Steamed Chop. Procure two or three mutton or lamb chops and trim each neatly, cutting off the superfluous fat, fold in the ends and fasten with a skewer, then season with salt and pepper, and spread over each side with butter. Place the chops in a well buttered paper-bag with a few slices of onion and carrot, and, if liked, a few pieces of celery, and also three table-spoonfuls of water. Close up the end of the bag and fasten with clips, then cook on a grid or trivet in a hot oven for about 25 minutes. Slit open the bag, take out the chops and remove the skewers, arrange the chops on a dish, pour over any liquor found in the bag, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. A dish of mashed or fried potatoes should accompany this dish. Exeter Stew. Cut into thin slices about a pound of lean beef (rump steak or top side). Mix on a plate two table-spoonfuls of flour, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea- spoonful of pepper; dip each slice of beef into this, and shake well. Have ready a grease-proof paper-bag, thickly buttered inside. Line it with a small handful of finely shredded or grated carrot, moisten with a ladleful of stock or water, and upon this place the seasoned pieces of meat. Fold in the end of the bag, and fasten it securely with clips. Place it in a hot oven on a58 THE PAPER-RAG COOKERY MANUAL. grid shelf or trivet, and allow to cook for about three-quarters of an hour. Take up the bag, slit the paper, and turn the con- tents of the bag on to a deep dish, surround with savoury balls, which must be cooked separately. Note.—The stew may be cooked longer if liked, it will not hurt. Savoury Balls. Take 4 ozs. of sifted flour, 2 ozs. of finely chopped beef suet, a small tea-spoon- ful of finely chopped parsley, a good pinch of dried savoury herbs, half an onion peeled and finely chopped. Mix these ingredients in a basin, season with salt and pepper, then add sufficient cold water to make into a fairly stiff paste. Divide this into even pieces, and shape into small balls; dip each ball into a little flour, and shake, then place into a well buttered paper-bag, add about a gill of water, close up the bag securely, and cook on a grid shelf in the oven from 85 to 40 minutes. Haricot Mutton. Soak, over-night, half a pint of haricot beans in tepid water. Cut about 1J lbs. of neck or loin of mutton into chops or cutlets, trim off the projecting bones, and season with salt and pepper; sprinkle about a table-spoonful of flour over the meat. Put it, with the beans, in a well buttered paper- bag, adding also three-quarters of a pint of stock or water, a tea-spoonful of TarragonTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 59 vinegar, one of Worcester sauce, a small peeled onion, and a peeled carrot cut in four. Fasten the end of the bag securely, turn in the four corners, and place it on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven; cook for about 45 minutes. Dish up the stew, with the haricot beans, and serve hot. Irish Stew. Wash and peel a pound of potatoes, cut them into thick slices, peel and slice two onions, next divide about 1J lbs. of scrag end of mutton into neat even sized pieces, re- moving some of the superfluous fat. Place half the potatoes in a greased paper-bag, lay the meat and onions on these, sprinkle over sufficient salt and pepper to taste, add a little water to moisten the ingredients, and lay the rest of the potatoes on top. Fold the end of the bag with two or three clips so as to keep it closely shut during the process of cooking. Now put the bag on a grid or perforated shelf in a hot oven and cook for about 60 minutes at moderate heat. Shake the bag occasionally. Put the contents of the bag on a hot dish, sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley, and serve. Stuffed Sheep’s Heart. Wash, wipe, and trim the heart, make a stuffing with one peeled and chopped onion, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one tea-spoonful of chopped sage, and half a tea-spoonful of sweet herbs; season with60 THE PAPEB-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. salt and pepper, and fill the heart with it; put some slices of bacon over the stuffing. Wrap the heart securely in greased paper, tie round with string, or put it in a greased paper-bag, and bake in a hot oven for about an hour, or less, according to the size of the heart. A little stock or water may be added to the meat if liked, this will serve as gravy. Sausage Rolls. Roll out some puff, or rough puff, paste, cut it into even-sized, oblong pieces, place half a pork sausage (cut lengthwise) in the centre of each piece of paste, wet the edges, and fold over or roll up; trim the ends neatly, place the rolls in a buttered paper- bag, fold in the ends, and bake on a grid shelf in a hot oven for about 18 minutes. Note.—Pierce the top of the bag here and there with a skewer, this will help to brown the pastry. Beefsteak Pudding. Take about 1 lb. of beef steak, half a pound of flour, and 4 ozs. of suet; cut the meat into thin slices and dip into a little seasoned flour, previously mixed with salt and pepper, on a plate. Roll up each with a small piece of fat inside. Chop the suet finely, mix with the flour and a pinch of salt; make into a stiff paste with about a gill of cold water, roll out and line with it a greased, shallow pudding basin, keeping back one-third for the cover; lay in theTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 61 pieces of meat, and season. Pour in a little water, moisten the edges, and cover the top with paste; tie over with buttered paper, then place it in a good-sized “Express” bag, and cook in a hot oven for about If hours. Remove the paper, unmould the pudding and dish up, or serve the pudding in a basin. Spiced Shoulder of Mutton. Bone a small shoulder of mutton, lay out the meat flat on a board, skin down- wards, and rub in a mixture of salt, sugar, pepper, mace, ginger, and cloves, using only a very little of each; roll up the meat and keep in the larder till the next day. Repeat this operation for three or four days, then roll up the meat, wrap up securely in a greased paper-bag, and tie it with string. Place it in a hot oven on a grid shelf, and cook for about 2 hours, more or less, according to size; remove the string and paper and serve hot or cold. If served hot, pour over some gravy or thin brown sauce, and if served cold, the joint should be brushed over with liquefied meat glaze or “Lemco” when cold. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. Wipe about a pound of calf’s liver and cut it into rather thin slices, dip each slice into seasoned flour, namely, flour mixed with enough salt and pepper to taste. Cut thinly, six or eight slices of streaky bacon, remove the rind, and place the bacon neatly62 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. inside a well buttered, grease-proof paper- bag; upon this put the prepared slices of liver; close up the bag, fasten it with clips, and put it on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven; cook thus for about 12 minutes, by which time the bacon and the liver should be quite tender. Great care should be taken not to cook the liver too long, else it becomes hard and tough. Take the bag out of the oven, slit it open, and range the contents neatly on a hot dish; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Boiled Pork and Bacon. Both pork and bacon can be successfully cooked in paper-bags. In the case of pickled pork, chose the thin parts of meat, and put it in a greased paper-bag with two or three small carrots, each cut in four, also a sufficient quantity of water, and fold in the bag and fasten it securely with clips, and cook them on a grid shelf in a moderately heated oven, allowing from 20 to 25 minutes to each pound of meat. Bacon should be soaked for several hours in tepid water, and then enclosed in a greased paper-bag and cooked the same as directed for boiled pork. Boiled Ham. One can hardly expect to get a large ham successfully cooked in a paper-bag, but a portion, say about half a ham, or a small gammon, can be so cooked to perfection.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 63 After soaking the ham, or gammon, in water for several hours, wash it thoroughly and enclose it in a well greased paper-bag with a sufficiency of water; close it up securely, and cook on a grid shelf in a moderate oven. It will take from If to 2J hours for, say, 4 to 6 lbs. of ham to cook, as the process must be necessarily a slow one. Broiled Ham and Bacon. Cut thinly the required number of slices of raw ham or bacon, trim off the rind, and place them in a slightly greased paper- bag, fold it up securely, put it on a grid in a fairly hot oven and cook from 8 to 10 minutes. Savoury Ham Patties. Chop or mince finely half a pound of lean ham. Mix with this a gill of whipped cream, season to taste with pepper, ground mace, and a little Krona pepper, and bind with the yolk of an egg. Fill some puff pastry cases with this, place them in a paper-bag in a hot oven for a few minutes to get them hot through, then take them out carefully, dish up, garnish with fresh parsley or sprigs of watercress, and serve. Scotch Collops. Mince or shred finely half a pound of lean beef (steak), free from fat or skin. Melt 1 oz. of butter and fry in it to a nice colour half a small onion finely minced,64 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. stir in about a dessert-spoonful of flour and cook a little longer ; now add the minced meat, and, lastly, one gill of stock. Put this into a buttered paper-bag, fold in the ends, and place the bag in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. To serve, slit open the bag and put the contents on to a hot dish, besprinkle with chopped parsley, and garnish with neatly cut pieces of toast. Sheeps’ Kidneys with Mushrooms. Slit three or four sheeps’ kidneys in halves and remove the skin. Chop finely half a small peeled onion, and mix on a plate with a little chopped parsley. Wash, peel, and drain six to eight cup mushrooms. Upon each mushroom, head downwards, place half a kidney, besprinkle with chopped onion and parsley, season with salt and pepper, and pour a little oiled butter over each. Put them carefully into a well buttered paper-bag, twist in the ends, fasten securely with a clip or skewer, and place on a grid or trivet in a hot oven from 12 to 15 minutes. Slit the bag and dish up the kidneys with mushrooms on top. Any liquor found in the bag must be poured round the base of the dish. Roulade of Veal. Procure half a breast of veal, bone it carefully, place it on a board skin down- wards, season with salt and pepper, and spread it with a thick layer of forcemeat made with pork sausage, bread, mushrooms,THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 65 and egg, duly seasoned and moistened with a little egg and milk. Roll up the veal care- fully, fasten the ends with fine string, cover the top with dripping or butter, and place in a well buttered “ Express ” paper-bag, put in a few slices of carrot, turnip, and onion, and moisten with one gill of water. Close up the end of the bag and fasten with clips, then place it on a grid and cook in a hot oven at first, and moderately heated afterwards for about 45 minutes. To serve, slit the bag open, take out the meat, roll and place on a dish. Serve hot or cold. Curried Veal. Cut about a pound of lean veal, fillet or leg part, into small thin slices, free from skin and sinews. Mix on a plate a table- spoonful of flour with a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, and a dessert-spoonful of dessicated cocoanut. Season the meat with salt and pepper, add to it half a sour apple peeled and chopped, then mix with the curried flour, etc. Have ready a well buttered paper-bag of the desired size, put in it the prepared meat, also about half a pint of cold water or stock. Close up the end of the bag and fasten carefully with wire clips. Turn in the four corners of the bag and place it on a grid shelf in a moderately heated oven and cook slowly for about 35 or 40 minutes. When done take out the bag, slit it open, and put its contents on to a hot dish. Sprinkle over a little lemon juice and serve with plainly66 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. cooked rice (see Vegetable section for this recipe. Note.—If white cnrry is desired use half milk and half water or white stock. Cold Meat or Rechauffe Dishes. Left-over cooked food reheated in “Express” paper-bags will be found de- cidedly better than when warmed up by the old way. This is due to the fact that all the essential juices of the meat are retained instead of being, to a great extent, dissipated, as is the case by the old-fashioned pot and pan method. Minced Meat. This is made from the remains of cold meat, beef, mutton, veal, or pork. Trim off the superfluous fat and cut about a pound of the meat into slices and then into small discs. Season it with salt and pepper and sprinkle over a table-spoonful of flour. Mix in a small basin half a pint of stock or water, a tea-spoonful of Tarragon vinegar, the same of Harvey sauce or mushroom ketchup, and a few slices of finely chopped onion. Stir this and mix with the minced meat. Then put all in a well greased paper-bag, fasten it securely, place it on a grid shelf in a fairly heated oven and cook for about 20 minutes. Hashed Meat. Cut some cold meat, beef, mutton, lamb, or pork into fairly thin slices, and proceedTHE PAPEE-BAG COOKEEY MANUAL. 67 to cook them in the same manner as directed for minced meat. “ Express ” Mixed Grill. This dish requires some nicely grilled or toasted bread, allowing one slice for each person, also half a fillet of kippered herring free from bones, half a pork sausage, and a slice of streaky bacon thinly cut. Cook these separately or together, according to the quantity, in a well buttered “ Express” paper-bag. Close up the end of the bag and fasten with clips, then place it on a grid in a fairly hot oven and cook from 6 to 8 minutes. Butter the pieces of toast, place on each a fillet of kipper, a slice of bacon, and half a sausage. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. Sweetbread. The following ingredients are required for this dish :—one sweetbread, 2 ozs. butter, three slices of bacon, braising vegetables, the juice of half a lemon, season- ing, and parsley for garnishing. Blanch the sweetbread, trim it, and put it between two plates to press. When cold, season to taste with salt and pepper, then put it with the butter, bacon, and some sliced carrot, onion, bay leaf, and the lemon juice into a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, place this, when properly sealed up and fastened with wire clips, on a grid shelf and cook in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. When cooked, take up the sweet-68 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. bread, dish up, pour over the liquid found in the bag, garnish with parsley and serve hot. Roman Macaroni Pie. Line a rather shallow pie dish with cooked, i.e., boiled, macaroni. Have ready some cooked cold meat, such as roast beef, mutton, veal, rabbit, chicken, tongue, ham, or cold game, cut it into rather small and thin slices, and place them in layers in the pie-dish. Pour a little white or brown sauce over each layer, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and very little grated nutmeg. When the dish is full pour over a good layer of white sauce, sprinkle over some grated cheese, and cover neatly with boiled macaroni. Upon this put a little melted butter, and strew over a little more grated cheese. Now place the pie-dish in an “ Express ” paper-bag, fold in the ends and fasten with clips, and bake in a hot oven for about half an hour. Oxford Duck. Bone half a small shoulder of mutton and lay it open, spread with sage and onion stuffing, roll and tie it up in a neat shape. Put it carefully into a well greased ‘‘Express” paper-bag, large enough to hold the joint, and bake about 1J to 1J hours, according to the size. Remove the meat from the bag on to a hot dish, pour off the liquid into a basin, add a little hot water, and season with “Bisto” or gravy salt, and serve with the meat.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 69 Sage and Onion Stuffing. This is made by mixing the following ingredients in a basin:—Four small peeled, boiled, and chopped onions, 2 ozs. of boiled (mashed) potatoes, 2 ozs. of bread crumbs, and a tea-spoonful of powdered sage, season with salt and pepper, and use as above directed. Cornish Pasties. Have ready the following ingredients:— Half a pound of lean mutton free from bone, two potatoes, a dessert-spoonful of chopped onion, half a pound of flour, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, 4 ozs. of dripping, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Cut the meat into very small pieces, and mix with the chopped onion, and season with salt and pepper. Wash and peel the potatoes and cut into small pieces, and mix with the meat, adding a little water to moisten and the chopped parsley. Put the flour, baking powder, and a pinch of salt into a basin, rub in the dripping, then add enough cold water to make a fairly stiff paste; divide the paste into eight or ten pieces, and roll out each piece into a round. Lay a spoonful of the mixture on each round, wet the edges, draw the opposite edges together, press together firmly, and crimp them with the finger and thumb. Make a small hole in70 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. the top of each pasty, place them in a well greased paper-bag, fasten the end, and prick the paper here and there with a skewer. Bake on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour. Hot Pot. Cut into slices lbs. of potatoes, peel and slice two medium-sized onions; grease a shallow pie dish, lay some pieces of mutton or beef at the bottom, then potatoes, onions, and season with salt and pepper. Repeat the layers, leaving plenty of potatoes for the top. Half fill the dish with cold water, and put it in a greased paper-bag; cook it in a fairly hot oven for about 50 minutes, then remove the paper and brown the top. Toad in the Hole. Sift 4 ozs. of flour into a basin, add salt and pepper to taste; beat up an egg and pour it into the centre of the flour, stir with a wooden spoon, adding gradually a gill of milk; then beat the batter well. When quite smooth add another gill of milk. Skin half a pound of sausages and cut them in halves; if cooked meat is used cut it into small squares. Place the meat in a greased shallow pie dish, pour over the prepared batter, put the dish in an “Express” paper-bag, and bake for about half an hour. Remove the dish from the bag and send it to table.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 71 Kidneys a la frangaise. Skin and cut into thin slices four or five sheeps’ kidneys, or one calf’s kidney; season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over a little melted butter, three slices of finely minced onion, also about a table- spoonful of flour. Mix all carefully and put into a well buttered paper-bag, together with a small glass of white wine and a gill of stock. Close up the bag securely, place it on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven, and cook rather briskly for about 12 to 15 minutes; if cooked too long the kidneys will get tough. To serve, open the bag, put the contents with the sauce into a hot dish, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley. Fillets of Beef & la Yiennoise. Chop finely, or pass through the mincing machine, 1 lb. of lean beef, put it in a basin and add half a finely chopped onion, 4 ozs. of bread crumbs, season with salt and pepper, and mix with a well beaten egg ; shape into even-sized round flat cakes and brush over with butter. Dredge them lightly with flour and place them in a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, pouring a little clarified butter on top of each fillet, close up the bag securely, and bake on a wire grid in a fairly hot oven for about 15 or 20 minutes.72 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Loin of Pork a la Robert. Bone half a small loin of pork and remove the rind if liked. Peel and chop finely two shallots, mix these with half ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of flour, also a peeled ripe tomato cut up very small. Put this mixture inside the loin and fold in the end, and season the meat with salt and pepper, now put it in a paper-bag with a gill of stock or water, close up the bag securely, and put it on a grid shelf and cook for about 1J to If hours in a fairly hot oven. Put the meat on a hot dish, mix the sauce formed in the bag with a little hot water and pour round the base of the pork, and serve. Ham and Eggs. Cut thinly the required number of rashers of ham or gammon; trim off the rind, and enclose them in an “Express” paper-bag, and cook for about 6 minutes on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven. Now take out the bag, and with a pair of scissors cut out the centre portion of the paper. Carefully break three new-laid eggs on top of the ham, put the bag back in the oven and cook for another 3 minutes; then slide out the ham and eggs by means of a slice or skimmer on to a hot dish, and serve.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 73 POULTRY AND GAME. Roast Chioken. Cut the legs, close to thigh, of a chicken, well trussed for roasting; spread over the breast part a layer of butter or dripping, then put it in a buttered paper-bag, fold in the end and fasten with clips, cook it on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven for about 40 minutes; this is the time a moderate sized fowl will take. Take up the bird, remove the skewer and string, and put it on a hot dish; prepare some gravy as directed for roast meat; garnish with watercress, and serve with bread sauce. Boiled Chioken. Careful cooks have always boiled fowls and chickens by previously wrapping them up in buttered paper; but boiling them in paper bags is more convenient, and cer- tainly cleaner. Procure the bird to be boiled ready trussed for boiling; rub the outside with a cut lemon, then put it in a well buttered paper-bag with a sliced onion, a piece of celery, a small peeled onion stuck with a clove, and a small bunch of herbs, parsley, etc.; add also about a pint of salted water; fold in the bag and fasten well with74 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. wire clips, or, if preferred, tie up the end with string. Put it on a grid shelf in a moderately heated oven for about an hour, or less, according to the size of the bird; serve the chicken on a hot dish with its gravy or liquor. Chicken Livers with Fine Herbs. Wash, clean, and drain a dozen chicken livers, cut each in half, and season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle over a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, a small peeled and chopped shallot, a dessert- spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of melted butter. Put all into a buttered paper-bag with a gill of stock, seal up, and place it on a wire grid and cook in a well heated oven for about 10 minutes. Dish up, garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve hot. Chicken with Rice. Pick and wash the rice, parboil, drain on a sieve, and keep till required. Cut a chicken into neat joints, trim each slightly, and season with salt and pepper, also a grate of lemon rind. With the carcase prepare a stock seasoned with vegetables— carrot, turnip, and onion—then strain. Put the partially cooked rice into a thickly buttered grease-proof paper-bag, upon this place the pieces of chicken, and cover with more rice, moisten with about a gill of stock ; fold in the ends of the bag andTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 75 fasten with two clips; place the bag on a grid or trivet in a fairly hot oven, and cook from 45 to 50 minutes. Take out the bag, slit it open, place the pieces of chicken on a deep dish, range the rice neatly round in the form of a border; garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. Spatchcock of Chicken. Truss a young chicken the same as for roasting, then split it down the backbone, the breast part being left whole. Spread out flat and skewer the legs, brush over with oiled butter, place it in a buttered “ Express” bag, and cook it on a grid in a hot oven for about half an hour. When done, take out the chicken, remove the skewers, and season it with salt and pepper. Serve on a hot dish, and place a few small rolls of fried bacon, cooked separately in a paper bag, round the dish, and garnish with watercresses. Curried Chicken. Cut a chicken, ready trussed for cooking, into small joints, trim each piece, as directed for fricassee of chicken, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over the prepared pieces a table-spoonful of flour, a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, and a dessert-spoonful of desiccated cocoa-nut; enclose this in a well buttered paper-bag, adding a gill of milk and a gill of stock or water. Close up the bag and fasten with wire clips; place it on a grid shelf and cook carefully in a76 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. moderately heated oven for about 35 to 40 minutes. When done, slit the bag, arrange the cooked chicken neatly on a hot dish and pour over the sauce; squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over, and serve with plainty cooked rice. Chicken Fricassee, with Mushrooms. Cut a tender chicken into the usual joints, trim each neatly, and cut off any pro- jecting bones; season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over with very little flour, then dip each piece of chicken into clarified butter, and slip into a well oiled “Express” paper-bag, together with a handful of finely sliced preserved mushrooms, also a small onion stuck with a clove, half a carrot, and a bouquet of parsley; pour over about a gill of stock. Close up the end of the bag, fold over and fasten with clips, then place on a wire grid and cook in a moderate oven from 35 to 40 minutes, according to quantity cooked. Stir a yolk of egg in a small basin with three table-spoonfuls of cream; to this add the strained juice of half a lemon. Take the pieces of chicken out of the bag and dress them on a hot dish with the mushrooms ; remove the onion, carrot, and parsley, and strain the liquor remaining in the bag into the yolk of egg, etc.; mix thoroughly and pour over the chicken; sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley, and garnish with fleurons (half-moons of puff pastry), and also, if liked, with thin slices of lemon.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 77 Chicken Patties. Mince finely some cold chicken with a little ham or tongue, season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with a little white or brown sauce. Roll out some puff, or rough puff, paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp into rounds and line some small patty tins; place in each a table- spoonful of the prepared chicken mixture. Roll out more of the paste rather thicker than the first lot, stamp into rounds the size of the tops of the tins, wet the edges, and cover the patties. Place them in a buttered grease-proof paper-bag, fold in the end, and bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. Roast Duck. Proceed the same as directed for roast chicken, allowing a little longer to cook, but omitting the bread sauce. Stuffed Roast Duck. Prepare a savoury banana stuffing as directed in the Miscellaneous Recipes section, with this stuff the body of a duck trussed for roasting ; enclose it in a paper-bag, and proceed to cook it as stated for roast chicken, allowing about 45 to 50 minutes to roast. Roast Pheasant. Pick, draw, and truss a pheasant, tie a piece of fat bacon over the breast, spread over a little butter or dripping, and enclose78 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. it in a buttered paper-bag; cook it on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven for about 35 minutes, or longer, according to size of bird; dish up, and garnish with water- cress; serve with bread sauce, and chipped potatoes. Roast Quail. Truss the quails, cover the breast of each with a vine leaf and larding bacon, and enclose them in a buttered paper-bag, fasten the end with clips, and cook in a fairly hot oven on a grid shelf for about 10 minutes. Serve the quails on pieces of toasted bread; garnish the dish with watercress, and send to table with a little nicely seasoned gravy. Roast Grouse. Proceed the same as directed for roast pheasant, and allow about 20 or 25 minutes for roasting the birds. Grouse with Bacon. Singe, draw, wipe and truss twTo fine grouse, split them in two through the back without separating the breast part; lay them on a dish and season with salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of olive oil, then drain; skewer them and dredge with flour. Next put them in a greased “ Express ” paper- bag, fasten the end securely, and place on a wire grid in a hot oven; cook for about 15 minutes or less. Have ready some toasted bread, put it on a hot dish ; on this range the cooked grouse, and spread someTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 79 maitre d'hotel butter on top. Garnish the dish with six thin slices of broiled bacon, also cooked in a paper-bag, and serve. Note. — Partridges, pigeons, young chickens, and other small birds can be cooked in the same way. Roast Partridge. Pick, draw, singe, and truss a brace of partridge, cover the breast portion of each with a thin slice of fat bacon, and put about a tea-spoonful of seasoned butter in the body of each bird. Enclose them in a buttered “Express” bag, fasten the end with clips, and put it on a grid shelf in a hot oven, cook for about 20 to 25 minutes; serve the same as roast quail. Roast Pigeon. Proceed the same as directed for roast pheasant, allowing about 15 or 20 minutes to cook them in a fairly hot oven. Stuffed Bordeaux Pigeon. Truss a Bordeaux pigeon the same as for roasting, cut it in half, and wipe each half thoroughly with a damp cloth; flatten on a board and fasten each half with a skewer. Soak a handful of bread crumbs with a little milk, then mix with two pork sausages, previously skinned, add a little chopped herbs, and mix thoroughly with a beaten egg; spread this over the halves of pigeon, then brush over with oiled butter; place in80 THE PAPEE-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. a well buttered paper-bag, seal the ends, and bake for about 25 minutes; slit open the bag, take up the pigeon, remove the skewers, and dish up the cooked pigeon on a hot dish; serve with green peas. Roast Yenison. Take a loin of venison, trim it neatly, remove the skin, and spread the under part with about 2 ozs. of butter mixed with a table-spoonful of flour, a little Worcester- shire sauce, and a crushed clove of garlic or shallot. Fold over the flap end of the meat, dredge with a little flour, and put the joint in a thickly buttered “ Express ” paper-bag, fasten it securely, place it on a grid in a fairly hot oven, and cook for about 1J to If hours. When done, take up the meat and put it on a hot dish; pour the liquid in the bag into a basin, and add to it some very hot water, season with salt and pepper, and flavour, if liked, with a little port wine ; strain, and serve with the venison. Leg or haunch of venison is treated similarly, but requires longer to cook. Venison should always be well done. Salmi of Widgeon or Wild Duck. Cut a par-roasted wild duck or widgeon into neatly trimmed joints, removing any projecting bones, dredge them with flour, and season with salt, white pepper andTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 81 paprika pepper ; stone eight or ten French olives ; prepare a stock with the carcase of the bird, and colour it with a little caramel. Butter an “Express” paper-bag, put in the pieces of duck, the olives, and a few small peeled button onions, also gills of the prepared stock, and, if liked, a little claret. Close up the bag securely and put it on a wire grid in a moderately heated oven for about 30 minutes, or longer; dish up the salmi with the olives and onions, pour over the sauce, and serve hot. Roast Rabbit. Take one rabbit, 1 oz. of chopped beef suet, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, half a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, one egg to bind, and eight small rolls of bacon. Wipe and truss the rabbit for roasting; fill the body with stuffing made with the chopped suet, bread crumbs, parsley, a tea- spoonful of savoury herbs, and sufficient egg to bind, season with salt and pepper ; sew up or skewer the opening, spread some dripping or butter over the rabbit, and place it in an “Express” bag, fold and fasten the opening securely with clips. Put the bag on a wire grid in a hot oven, and cook from 1£ to If hours. Cook the rolls of bacon separately in a paper-bag. Remove the rabbit from the bag, take out the string and skewers and put it on a hot dish, pour over the gravy from the bag, and put the rolls of bacon round the base of the dish.82 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. VEGETABLES. It is only of late that any attempt has been made to cook vegetables in paper- bags ; whilst it is not advisable to adopt this method for every kind of vegetable, the experiments made have proved that quite a number of vegetables can be success- fully cooked by the paper-bag process, notably so the following: — Aubergines, Jerusalem artichokes, broad beans, Brussels sprouts, beans, carrots, cauliflower, celeriac, celery, cucumber, endive, chicory, flageolets, seakale, mushrooms, parsnips, peas, potatoes, salsify, tomatoes, and vegetable marrow. These must in each case be washed, trimmed, and prepared the same as for an ordinary cooking process, duly seasoned and placed with a little water, and in some cases butter as well, in a grease-proof paper-bag (sealed up), and put in a moderately heated oven on an iron grid, not a solid shelf, as is usually found in coal ovens. The heat will thus reach the contents of the bag from all sides and top and bottom. From 15 to 85 minutes should be allowed to cook any kind of vegetable, some will take even less time. When paper-bags are not available, use pure white paper, butter, i.e., brush overTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 83 with oiled butter, one side, and wrap the vegetables, buttered side inwards, in the paper. Care must be taken to see that the ends of the paper are carefully sealed up; for this reason “Express” paper-bags are more convenient, being much cleaner to use and easier to seal up. Dried peas, lentils, and haricot beans are excellent cooked in paper-bags, but they must be allowed to soak for rather longer than usual before cooking them. It is well to remember that all vegetables must undergo some kind of preparation, washing, draining, scraping, peeling, etc., before they can be cooked in the correct sense, and unless this is done well the success of a dish is often spoiled, so that the paper-bag cannot be of much help unless this is done. Always cook the vegetables on the same day on which they are prepared and wanted for table. Vegetables of strong flavour, which in- clude almost every kind of green vegetable, are not recommended to be cooked in a paper-bag, they should be cooked in a large quantity of water, sufficient to well cover the articles to be cooked. The water in which they are cooked must be well seasoned with salt. About a tea- spoonful to every quart of water is the average proportion used.84 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. As a much smaller quantity of water is used by the paper-bag system than by the ordinary way, the liquor in which vegetables have been cooked is valuable and should be made use of. Vegetable Marrow. Peel thinly one or two vegetable marrows, out each in half longways, and remove the seedy portion ; then cut into three or four pieces, place these in a well - buttered “Express” bag, with sufficient seasoned water, and close up the bag securely. Put it on a grid in a moderately heated oven and cook for about 18 minutes. Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. Peel a good sized vegetable marrow, cut it in half lengthways, remove the seeds from the centre, then cut each half cross- ways. Prepare a stuffing in the usual way with two table-spoonfuls of finely chopped beef suet, two table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, and bind with a beaten egg. Fill the cavities of the marrow with the prepared stuffing, sprinkle over a few bread crumbs, and distribute a few tiny bits of butter on top. Place the prepared marrow in a well buttered paper-bag with very little water or stock, fold in and fasten the ends well, place on a grid shelf or trivet in a well heated oven, and cook for about 40 minutes; slitTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 85 the bag open, take out the marrow, dish up neatly, and serve hot. Cucumber can be cooked in the same way. Fried Bananas. Choose firm, not over-ripe, bananas, peel them, and cut each in half lengthwise ; dip in milk and then in seasoned oatmeal. Brush over the inside of a paper-bag with clarified butter or olive oil. Put in a layer of thinly cut bacon, and over these the bananas, sprinkle a little clarified butter over the bananas, close up the bag and fasten with clips; bake on a grid shelf for about 15 minutes. Take up the bananas, season them lightly with Krona or paprika pepper, dish up, garnish with slices of fried bacon and slices of lemon, and serve. Bananas with Bacon. This makes an excellent breakfast dish. Take six bananas, not over ripe, peel them, and cut each in half lengthways; season with salt and pepper, and put each half on a slice of streaky bacon. Place these in a well buttered paper-bag, fasten the ends securely as above directed, and bake in a hot oven for about 12 minutes or longer; it will not spoil. Bananas and Cream. Put six green bananas, together with half a gill of cold water, into a well buttered “Express” bag, place it on a wire grid into86 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. the oven and cook for 10 minutes. Un- fasten the bag, peel the bananas and put them on a hot dish. Pour over half a gill of cream mixed with one yolk of egg; season with salt and pepper, and serve. Broad Beans. This is an excellent way of cooking young broad beans; shell them and put the beans with salted water in a buttered paper-bag, seal it up and cook on a grid shelf for 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Mix a little of the stock or liquor of the beans and a table- spoonful of cream with the yolk of an egg, and add a little chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. Dish up the beans and pour over the prepared sauce. Carrots a la Vichy. Wash and scrape four or eight carrots and cut them into very thin slices, season with salt and pepper, and mix with an ounce of clarified butter and a gill of stock or water flavoured with “ Lemco.” Put all into a well buttered paper-bag, close it up and fasten with wire clips; place it on a wire grid in a moderately heated oven and cook from 25 to 80 minutes. Slit the bag open, and put the carrots with the liquor on to a hot dish, sprinkle over some finely chopped parsley, and serve hot. Kidney Potatoes. Wash and peel thinly about a pound of small kidney potatoes, plunge them intoTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 87 slightly salted boiling water for a few minutes, then drain on a cloth. Next, place the potatoes into a thickly buttered grease- proof paper-bag and bake them on a grid or trivet in a brisk oven for about 25 minutes. Test the potatoes with a skewer, and when found done open the bag, add a good pinch of fine salt to the potatoes, also a little chopped parsley and a tiny piece of fresh butter. Shake the contents well, then dish up the potatoes and serve. Baked Potatoes. Wash and scrape, or peel thinly, 1 to 1J lbs. of new potatoes; parboil them for a few minutes in salted water, then drain, sprinkle over with oiled butter, and put them into a buttered grease-proof paper- bag. Fasten the bag securely and place on a grid or trivet in a hot oven, and bake for 25 or 30 minutes. Potato Chips. Wash and peel thinly four or five potatoes, and cut them into very thin slices; put them on a cloth and drain thoroughly so as to absorb all the moisture. Have ready a well buttered paper-bag, put in the prepared potato chips, and close up the bag, fasten the end with clips, and place on a grid shelf in a hot oven ; cook thus for about 15 minutes, turning the bag once or twice during this period ; the potato chips will be found quite crisp by this time. Open88 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. the bag, season the chips with fine salt, and dish them up. Duchess Potatoes. Wash and peel about 1J lbs. of potatoes, boil them in salted water until done, drain off the water and let them dry in the oven for a few minutes covered over. Rub the potatoes quickly through a wire sieve; whilst warm mix with them two yolks of eggs, 1 oz. of clarified butter, and about two table-spoonfuls of cream or milk, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; when well mixed turn out on to a floured board and make twelve parts of equal size, give each the shape of a square, tracing a few lines with a knife, lay them in a buttered grease-proof paper-bag, and bake them in a quick oven. Slit open the bag, dish up the potato squares, and serve. Gastle Potatoes. Wash and peel the required number (about 1 lb. or 1J lbs.) of small, even sized potatoes, cut each in four, and trim neatly into sections, then blanch and drain. Have ready a thoroughly oiled “Express” paper- bag, place in the prepared potatoes, season with salt and pepper, and pour over about 2 ozs. clarified butter. Close up the end of the bag, fasten with clips, and place on a wire grid in a hot oven. When done, open the bag, take out the potatoes, place them on a hot dish, sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley, and serve.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 89 Saute Potatoes. This is an excellent way of reheating cold potatoes. If the potatoes are not peeled, peel them and slice them thinly, season with salt and pepper. Have ready an “Express” paper-bag of the desired size; pour over the sliced potatoes a liberal quantity of melted butter, and put them in a well buttered paper-bag, fasten up the end, place it on a grid shelf and cook in a fairly hot oven about 18 to ‘20 minutes; turn the bag several times. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel. Cut some cold potatoes into slices, not too thin, season them with salt and pepper, and a little nutmeg, sprinkle over half a table- spoonful of cornflour to a pound of potatoes, also a table-spoonful of oiled butter, then put them in a buttered paper-bag with a gill and a half of milk. Close up the bag securely and place it on a wire grid in a moderately heated oven for about 20 minutes; slit open the bag and put the potatoes with the sauce on a hot dish; sprinkle over some finely chopped parsley, and serve. Tomatoes with Bacon. Remove the stems from six or eight ripe but firm tomatoes, wipe them and dip each in hot water for a few minutes, then skin carefully. Cut half a pound of bacon into thin slices, bat out each slice, and roll up half a tomato in each, after having seasoned them with salt and pepper and sprinkledyo THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. over a little chopped parsley. Place care- fully in a greased paper-bag, fold over the end of the bag and fasten with clips or large pins, then put it on a grid shelf in a hot oven and cook for about 15 minutes. Break or slit the bag, put the contents carefully on a hot dish, and serve. Stuffed Tomatoes. Take six firm, ripe, even sized tomatoes, cut off the tops; scoop out the insides, rub the pulp through a fine wire sieve; with this prepare the stuffing, adding 2 ozs. of fresh butter, three table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, six finely chopped preserved mush- rooms, and a little chopped parsley or chives; season with salt and pepper. Stir the mix- ture, and bind with two yolks of eggs and a little cream. Fill the tomatoes with the stuffing thus prepared. Place them side by side in a well buttered paper-bag, close it up securely, put it on a wire grid, and bake in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. Dish up the tomatoes, and serve hot. Baked Tomatoes. Cut six tomatoes into halves, season them with pepper and salt, and sprinkle bread crumbs over them, put small pieces of butter here and there on them. Place them in a buttered paper-bag, close it up securely, put it on a wire grid, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. Dish up the tomatoes, and serve hot.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 91 Coloannon. Mash or mince finely some cold boiled potatoes, season them with salt and pepper, and mix with them sufficient cooked and chopped spring cabbage to give a pleasant green colour to the potatoes, add a little butter, and put into a buttered paper- bag, sprinkle with bread crumbs, close it up securely, place it on a wire grid, and bake in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. Dish up, and serve with thinly cut rashers of bacon, cooked separately in a paper-bag. Stuffed Mushrooms. Take about a pound of mushrooms, wash, drain, and skin them, and cut off the stalk end. Stuff each mushroom with a layer of force-meat made the same as for roulade of veal. Pour a little oiled butter on top of each, and place in a buttered “Express” paper-bag, fold in the end of the bag and fasten with clips, and cook in a fairly hot oven for about 8 minutes on a grid shelf. Broiled Cup Mushrooms. Peel rather more than half a pound of cup mushrooms, cut off the stalks, and wash and drain thoroughly on a cloth; season wfith salt and pepper, and put about half a tea-spoonful of parsley butter into each mushroom. Then place them, head downwards into a large well buttered grease proof paper-bag, fold over and fasten the bag securely, place in a sharp oven, and cook on a grid shelf from 6 to 8 minutes.92 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Mushrooms with Ham. Peel about half a pound of fresh mush- rooms, cut off the stalks, then wash and drain them on a cloth, season with salt and pepper. Next, cut thinly a few slices of ham, place them in a buttered paper-bag with the mushrooms, pour over a little oiled butter, fold in the ends of the bag and fasten securely, then put it in a hot oven on a grid shelf or trivet, and cook for about 15 minutes. Take up, slit the bag, and dish up the mushrooms and ham carefully; sprinkle over a little chopped parsley; and serve hot. Butter Bean Croquettes. Soak 1 pint of butter beans in water for several hours, and cook them in salted water until they can be easily mashed, press them through a sieve; heat up 2 ozs. of butter in a stew-pan, add the beans, and season with salt and pepper and a very little powdered sage. Shape the mixture like small sausages, dip in egg and oatmeal or bread crumbs, and place them side by side in a grease-proof paper-bag, after being thoroughly greased with clarified butter; close up the bag and fasten the end with clips, then put it on a grid shelf or wire tray in a fairly hot oven, and cook for about 18 minutes. Take up the croquettes, put them neatly on a dish; garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve hot.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 93 Curried Lentils. Wash half a pint of lentils, and put in tepid water to soak for several hours, then drain. Peel and chop finely half a small onion, and mix with half a peeled, chopped apple, and half an ounce of oiled butter; add to it a dessert-spoonful of flour, a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, now add the lentils, mix with about half a pint of stock or water, and season with salt and pepper. Place all in a thickly buttered paper-bag, fold and fasten the end of the bag securely, and put it carefully on a wire grid; cook in a moderately heated oven for about 30 to 40 minutes. Dish up, and serve with boiled rice. Boiled Rice. Rice can be satisfactorily cooked in a paper-bag. After picking it over and washing it in several waters, it should be soaked for several hours. It is then put in a well greased paper-bag with water, pro- portion being half a pint of water to 4 ozs. of rice ; fold in and fasten the end of the bag, put it on a grid shelf and cook in a moderate oven for about 25 minutes. Curried Rice and Tomatoes. Cook about half a pound of rice as directed in the foregoing recipe, and put it in a basin. Peel, and cut into small pieces, three small, ripe tomatoes, remove the pips, season with salt and pepper, and mix -with94 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. the rice; stir up a yolk of egg with half a gill of cream, to this add a dessert-spoonful of cornflour and an equal quantity of curry powder, previously mixed with two table- spoonfuls of oiled butter and a tea-spoonful of curry paste ; add this carefully with the rice and tomatoes, and put all into a well buttered paper-bag, fasten it up securely with wire clips, place the bag on a wire grid in a fairly hot oven and cook for about 18 minutes; dish up neatly, garnish with cut lemon, and serve hot with some mango- chutney. Green Peas. Shell one pint of green peas, put into a quart-sized paper-bag, previously buttered, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, a sprig of green mint, and about a gill of water ; fold the ends of the bag carefully, and clip tightly, place it on a grid shelf in a moderate oven and cook for about 85 minutes. To serve, slit open the paper-bag, and shoot the peas on to a hot dish. Green Peas a la Frangaise. Shell pints to a quart of green peas, put them into a thoroughly buttered “Express” paper-bag, together with four small, peeled button onions and 2 ozs. of finely shredded streaky bacon (shreds cut crossways), season with salt and pepper, also a little castor sugar, and add from 1 to 1J gills of water. Close up the end of the bag and fasten with clips, then place itTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 95 carefully on a wire grid and cook in a moderate oven, allowing from 80 to 35 minutes. When cooked, take up the peas and put them on a hot dish; sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley, and serve. Savoury Cabbage. Wash and trim a young cabbage, remove the stalk portion, and cut the remainder into shreds. Take three slices of streaky bacon and cut them crossways into strips; mix these with the cabbage, season with salt, and put all in a buttered “ Express ” paper-bag with about three quarters of a pint of wrater, and a tea-spoonful of bi- carbonate of soda. Close up the bag securely, place it on a wire grid, and cook in a moderately heated oven for about 40 minutes; dish up the cabbage, and serve hot. Spinach. Pick, trim, w7ash, and drain about l\ lbs. of young spinach, season with salt and a little bi-carbonate of soda, and put it in a well buttered “Express” paper-bag with about a gill of water. Close up the bag securely, place it on a wire grid, and cook in a moderately heated oven for about 30 minutes.96 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. HOT AND COLD SWEETS. Tapioca Pudding. Take three quarters of a pint of milk, 1 oz. crushed or flaked tapioca, 1 oz. of castor sugar, one egg, flavouring essence. Put the tapioca to soak in hot milk for 20 minutes, then add the sugar and the beaten egg, also a few drops of flavouring essence. Butter a shallow pie-dish, pour in the mixture, then put it in a paper-bag, fold in the end to close up securely, and bake for about 20 minutes. Hominy Pudding. Put 2 ozs. of hominy into a basin and pour over three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk, and let it soak for half an hour. Beat in one egg, then add half an ounce of shredded beef suet, and 1 oz. of castor sugar, also a few drops of flavouring essence. Pour the mixture into a greased shallow pie-dish, then place it in a paper- bag, fold in the end to close up securely with clips, place on a grid shelf in a fairly fast oven and bake for 15 minutes. Cocoanut Pudding. Take 4 ozs. of grated fresh cocoanut, with 2 ozs. of castor sugar, creamed up withTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 97 2 ozs. of butter, stir well, and add 2 ozs. of cake crumbs, also the whisked whites of three eggs, half a wine-glassful of sherry or brandy, and half a tea-spoonful of orange- water. Line the edges of a shallow pie-dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, sprinkle over with castor sugar, then place the dish in a paper-bag, seal it up well, and put it on a wire grid shelf and bake in a moderate oven for about 35 minutes. Baked Apple Dumplings. Get ready the following ingredients: half a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, six small cooking apples, brown sugar, and 2 ozs. of currants. Sift the flour with the baking powder into a basin, add a pinch of salt, and rub in the butter lightty; moisten with enough water to make a stiff smooth paste. Peel and core the apples, roll out the paste about a sixth of an inch thick, cut out twelve rounds, each large enough to wrap up half an apple; put a tea-spoonful of moist sugar and a few currants in the cavity of each apple, wet the edges of the paste, and wrap the apples in the paste, using two rounds for each. Care must be taken, so that the edges are well joined, brush over with water, sprinkle with castor sugar, place the prepared dumplings in a well greased “ Express ” paper-bag on a wire grid, prick the paper here and there with a fork, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about 30 minutes.98 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Baked Apples. Peel thinly six sour cooking apples, cut out the core of each with a cutter, and fill the cavities with currants, paste, and castor sugar, pour a little oiled butter over each apple, and place them in a buttered paper- bag, close it up securely, put it on a wire grid, and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Rolled Jam Pudding. Take half a pound of flour, 2 ozs. of bread crumbs, 4 ozs. of finely chopped beef suet, one teaspoonful of baking powder, gills of water, half of a teaspoonful of salt, and about a quarter of a pound of jam. Sift the flour and mix with the chopped suet, bread crumbs, baking powder, and salt; work it into a fairly stiff paste with the water. Roll it out on a floured board. Spread it over with the jam, leaving about half an inch free at the edges; roll up the paste gently, press the ends together. Butter a large “ Express ” paper-bag, put in it the pudding so that the joint of the paste is downwards, pour in about three quarters of a pint of water, close up bag, and fasten the end with wire clips, then place it on a wire grid in a moderately heated oven, and cook for about 1^ hours. When done slit open the bag, and take out the pudding carefully, place it on a hot dish, serve plain or with some sweet melted butter sauce.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 99 Plum Roly Pudding. Chop finely 4 ozs. of beef suet, mix with half a pound of flour and a pinch of salt. Clean some of the currants or sultanas and mix with the flour and suet. Make into a fairly stiff paste with water or milk, and shape into a roll, put into a buttered and floured paper-bag with about a pint of water, close up the bag securely, put it on a grid in a moderately heated oven, and cook for about 1J hours. Baked Roly Pudding. Rub 8 ozs. of beef dripping into half a pound of flour and mix with milk or water to a fairly stiff paste. Roll it out on a floured board and spread thinly with jam. Roll it up carefully, put it in a well buttered paper-bag, and bake on a grid shelf for about three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Semolina and Currant Pudding. Skin and chop finely 1 oz. of beef suet; put 2 ozs. of semolina to soak in a pint of warm milk. Mix well in a basin the suet, 2 ozs. of clean currants, and 1 oz. of castor sugar, and pour over the milk, previously boiled, with the thin rind of half a lemon. Pour the mixture into a buttered shallow pie-dish, place this in a paper-bag, seal up the end, and bake slowly in a moderately heated oven for about 45 minutes.100 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Baked Custard. Break two or three eggs separately into a basin, acid about half an ounce of castor sugar, beat thoroughly; add a pint of milk by degrees, pour into a shallow buttered pie-dish, grate over a very little nutmeg, put the dish carefully into a paper-bag, seal up, and bake slowly in a very moderately heated oven for about 20 minutes. Spotted Dick. Sift three quarters of a pound of flour, add to it a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and mix with 6 ozs. of chopped suet, add enough water to make into a fairly stiff paste. Roll it out and sprinkle with plenty of currants ; wet the edges and roll up the paste. Butter and flour a paper-bag, place in it the prepared roll with about a pint of water, and tie the ends securely. Put it on a wire grid in a moderately heated oven and cook for about If hours. Currant Cookies. Take half a pound of flour, 2 ozs. of butter, 3 ozs. of currants, 2 ozs. of sugar, two eggs, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, one table-spoonful of milk, one tea-spoonful of ground cinnamon. Rub the butter into the flour, then add the baking powder, the sugar, the currants, and the cinnamon. Beat up the eggs with a little milk and add to the dry ingredients.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 101 Mix into a fairly stiff paste, and put the mixture into a well greased “Express” paper-bag, close it in securely, and place it on a grid shelf; bake in a moderately heated oven for about 25 minutes. Cut the cake into square pieces and dredge with sugar. Vanilla Souffle. Take 1 oz. of butter, three quarters of an ounce of flour, one gill of milk, a dessert- spoonful of castor sugar, half a tea-spoonful of vanilla essence, and four eggs. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and cook until it leaves the sides of the pan clean ; then take it off the fire and add three yolks of eggs, one at a time, beating the whole well together. Add the sugar and the stiffly whisked whites; pour this into a well buttered “Express” paper- bag, seal up and fasten with clips, place it on a wire grid and bake for about 30 minutes. Dish up carefully and send to the table immediately. Bachelor Pudding. Take 2 ozs. of flour, a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, 2 ozs. of finely chopped beef suet, quarter of a pint of milk, 2 ozs. of sugar, 3 ozs. of best currants, one egg, 2 ozs. of bread crumbs. Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder in a bowl, add the chopped suet, bread crumbs, and sugar. Stone the raisins and102 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. cut them in pieces, and mix with the other dry ingredients ; mix to a light paste with the beaten egg and a little milk. Put the mixture into a well greased “ Express ” paper-bag, add about a gill of water, and fasten the bag; place it on a wire grid and cook in a moderate oven for about 1J hours. Friar’s Omelet. Peel, core, and slice four sour cooking apples, cook them in a thickly buttered paper-bag in the oven. Put the apples in a basin and mix to a pulp with 3 ozs. of castor sugar; flavour with half a tea- spoonful of ground cinnamon, and stir in half an ounce of fresh butter. Beat up yolks of five eggs, whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix these carefully with the prepared apple pulp, also three table- spoonfuls of brown bread crumbs. Butter and flour the inside of an “Express” paper-bag, pour in the mixture, fold in the end of the bag, and fasten with three wire clips, then place on a wire grid and bake in a moderately heated oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Slit the bag and take up the omelet, put it on a hot dish, besprinkle with castor sugar, and serve. Souffle Omelette. Work four yolks of eggs with 2J ozs. of castor sugar to a light cream. Whisk up five whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add these carefully to the creamed yolks together with a level table-spoonful of cornflour.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 108 A few drops of vanilla essence should also be added to flavour the omelet. Have ready a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, oblong shape, carefully put in the omelet mixture, close up the bag in the usual manner, and place it on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven (270 degrees Fahrenheit) and bake for about 15 minutes. Remove the paper-bag and place the omelet on a hot dish. Make an incision in the centre of the omelet, and put in one or two table- spoonfuls of fruit jam, raspberry or strawberry; serve hot. Omelette a la Chantilly. By way of a novelty this omelet may be allowed to get cold, and 1J gills of cream placed in by means of a cornet, and a pretty border of cream piped round it. The centre can then be filled with delicately arranged stewed fruit. The omelet is then know as “Omelette Souffiee a la Chantilly.” Strawberry Souffles. Quarter of a pound of small, ripe straw- berries, 2 ozs. of cornflour, 1J ozs. of butter, one pint of milk, 2 ozs. of castor sugar, and three eggs. Whisk the white of the eggs to a stiff froth, and beat up the yolks with the sugar till thick and creamy. Pick the straw- berries and put them in a basin, dredge with castor sugar, and add a few drops of kirsch; mix the cornflour with a little of the milk, and pour into a saucepan with104 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. the rest of the milk ; add the butter, a pinch of salt, and a few drops of vanilla essence. Bring to the boil, stir well, and boil for about 4 minutes ; work all the while vigor- ously, then add the yolks of eggs and the sugar, and stir till thoroughly blended; then mix in lightly the strawberries and the stiff egg whites. Pour into small buttered souffle cases, place these in a grease-proof paper-bag, and bake in a moderately heated gas oven for about half an hour. When done, slit the bag and place the souffles carefully on a hot dish; dredge with fine castor sugar, and send to table at once. Baked Apple Batter. Half a pound of apples, 3 ozs. flour, one egg, salt, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and about half a pint of milk. Mix the flour and salt together, beat up the egg, and mix it with the milk; add this gradually to the flour, beating well all the time. Peel and chop the apples, add these with a little sugar to the batter. Pour the mixture into a greased pie-dish or baking tin, place it in a grease-proof paper-bag, fold in the end securely, and bake in a hot oven for about 30 minutes. Take out of the paper-bag and serve hot. If a baking tin is used, turn the contents on a hot dish and serve. Note.—Any other kind of soft fruit may be used in place of apples, such as goose- berries, cherries, plums, etc.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 105 Sultana Pudding. Chop finely 3 ozs. of beef suet, and mix with 6 ozs. of bread crumbs, add to this 2 ozs. of cleaned sultanas and half an ounce of castor sugar; beat up an egg with a table-spoonful of milk and stir into the dry ingredients. Put the mixture into a small sized, well buttered paper-bag, fold the ends, fasten with clips, and cook on a grid in a fairly hot oven for 45 or 50 minutes. Banana Tart. Take six good sized bananas, one sour apple, the finely chopped rind of half a lemon, and 1 oz. of castor sugar. Peel the bananas and the apple, cut both into small pieces or slices, add the lemon rind and the sugar; sprinkle thickly a shallow, buttered pie-dish with finely crushed macaroons, put in the fruit, moisten with about a gill of water, and cover with a short crust paste. Place the dish in an “Express” paper-bag, fold in and fasten with clips; prick the bag here and there, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about 25 minutes. Banana Rolls. Take the required number of good sized bananas, peel and scrape each, and cut in half, enclose each in thinly rolled out short crust, or rough puff, paste; roll the paste over, twist at both ends, place them in a buttered “Express” paper-bag, fold and106 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. fasten with wire clips, and bake for about 15 minutes in a fairly hot oven. Banana Pie. Well butter a rather shallow pie-dish, and line the bottom and sides with ripe peeled bananas cut into slices; then lay alternate layers of bananas and thinly cut slices of bread and butter until the dish is well filled. Pour over a mixture of three beaten eggs and a half to three quarters of a pint of milk with a little sugar to sweeten, also a little grated lemon rind; enclose the dish in an “Express” paper-bag, fold in the end and fasten, then bake in a fairly hot oven on a grid shelf, from 25 to 30 minutes. Serve hot or cold. Fried Bananas. Peel four or five ripe bananas and slice lengthways or divide each into two. Brush them slightly with the yolk of an egg mixed with a little milk, dredge with flour, and dip each slice in melted butter. Butter the inside of a large sized “Express” paper-bag, put in the bananas, fold in the end of the bag, and fasten it with wire clips. Now place the bag on a wire grid in a fairly hot oven and cook for about 10 minutes. Take out the fruit and dish up neatly, sprinkle over some castor sugar and serve hot. Plain or with whipped cream. Note.—Bananas prepared and fried as above directed are also very nice served asTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 107 a breakfast dish omitting the sugar and serving fried slices of bacon thinly cut, these are also cooked in a paper-bag. Banana Souffle. Take four bananas, not over ripe, peel them, put them in a pie-dish, and pour over a little lemon juice. Have ready a buttered souffle dish. Separate the yolks from two eggs, adding 2 ozs. of castor sugar, and beat up to a cream. Next cream up in a basin 2 ozs. of fresh butter, add slowly 2 ozs. of sifted flour, then stir in the yolk of eggs. When well mixed, add the bananas previously passed through a sieve. Beat all well together, lastly add the stiffly whisked whites of eggs. Put the souffle quickly in an “ Express ” paper-bag, fold and fasten the end of the bag with clips. Bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. Send the souffle to table quickly. Bananas served in this way can be easily digested by the most delicate person, and are always received with delight. Manchester Pudding. Take half a pound of stale bread, one pint of milk, about three ounces of currants, 2 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of candied peel, one peeled and chopped apple, 3 ozs. of castor sugar, three eggs, and a little grated nutmeg. Break or cut the bread into small pieces; put them into a basin and pour over the108 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. milk hot, add the sugar and let it stand for about 10 minutes to soak the bread. Clean the currants, shred the peel, beat up the eggs, work the mixture well with a whisk or spoon, and stir in the remainder of the ingredients; a little grated nutmeg and the butter previously warmed should be put in last. Butter an “ Express ” paper-bag and pour in the mixture, fold in the end and fasten securely with clips. Punch the top of the paper here and there or prick with a skewer, then place the pudding on a grid shelf, and bake in a fairly hot oven from BO to 85 minutes. To serve remove the paper carefully and cut up the pudding into desired portions* Dish up and dredge with castor sugar, serve hot or cold. Banana and Tapioca Pudding. Soak two ozs. of tapioca in water for one hour and drain. Then add a pint of milk, with 1 oz. of castor sugar, and one egg (beaten), also five peeled bananas cut into slices; a little grated lemon rind may also be added. Put this into a well buttered shallow pie-dish and enclose in an “ Express” paper-bag. Bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. Compote of Fruit. Any kind of fruit can be cooked in a paper-bag. For compote several kinds of fruit must be used, and each variety should be cooked separately.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 109 Stewed Greengages. Wipe some greengages and stone them if liked, but this is not necessary. Place them in an “Express” paper-bag, which has been previously coated inside with clarified butter ; add sufficient castor sugar to sweeten, also about a gill of water to a pound of fruit. Fold in the end of the bag, fasten with clips, place the bag carefully on a wire grid, and cook in the oven at slow heat from 15 to 20 minutes. Stewed Prunes. Prunes should be soaked over-night, or at any rate for a few hours in tepid-water. Drain them, and put them into a well buttered “ Express ” paper-bag with a strip of lemon rind or a small piece of whole cinnamon, also the necessary sugar, and a gill of water to a pound of fruit. When cooked, take out the fruit, let it cool, then dish it up on a compotier. Garnish with glace cherries and angelica, and strips of almonds if liked.110 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. PASTRY AND CAKES. Pastry of all descriptions is eminently suitable for “Express’’ Paper-Bag Cookery. Pastry prepared in paper-bags is not only lighter, daintier, crisper, and more flaky than when baked in the ordinary way, but it likewise takes less time and is there- fore more economical. To Colour Pastry. In the case of pastry, it is not essential to butter the inside of the paper-bag, although refits should always be pricked in the upper portion of the bag at the beginning of the baking. The object of this is to colour the pastry a golden brown. Puff Paste. Sift half a pound of flour on to a pastry board, make a well in the centre, add a pinch of salt, one tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and about a gill of cold water. Knead the paste thoroughly, and roll out into an oblong strip. Next put 6 ozs. of fresh butter into a cloth, knead a little so as to squeeze out any moisture, and shape it into a flat cake. Place the butter in the centre of the prepared paste, wet the edges with a brush dipped in cold water, and fold over so as toTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Ill completely enclose the butter. Now roll it out very carefully, fold it into three, and roll out into an oblong shape again, continue this about four or five times, setting the paste aside in a cool place for about 15 minutes between each turn. Before using, it should be allowed to stand for at least half an hour. Rough Puff Paste. This is not quite so rich as puff paste, but the results are equally good. Add a pinch of salt to 12 ozs. of flour (sifted), cut 8 ozs. of butter into small pieces and mix with the flour; add just enough water to make a firm but smooth paste, roll it out one-third of an inch thick, fold in three and let it rest for 10 minutes in a cool place. Boll out again and fold in three. In about 15 minutes roll out a third time, again fold in three, and use as directed. This paste is eminently suitable for meat pies, sausage rolls, fruit tarts, pastries, etc. Yol-au-Yent. Make the puff paste in the usual way, give it six turns, roll out three-quarters of an inch thick, and cut it into the desired size of the vol-au-vent (round or oval). Turn the paste over on to a baking-sheet, brush the top with beaten egg, make a circular incision (to form the lid) about a quarter of an inch deep; this is best done with a large round cutter or sharp-pointed112 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. knife. Then slip the baking-sheet into an “Express” bag large enough to well hold the paste without touching, fold in the end of the bag carefully, place it on a grid shelf in a hot oven, and bake for about 25 minutes. When done, slit open the bag and carefully remove the vol-au-vent of puff paste crust. This can then be filled with a ragout of chicken quenelles, propor- tionately mixed with tongue, truffles, mush- rooms, etc., and moisten with a rich white sauce, Veloute or Bechamel. It may also be filled with fricassee of fish, made with white or brown sauce. Or it can be filled with preserved fruit or compote of fresh fruit. Tomato Pasties. Boll out some rough puff paste and stamp out into oblong or square pieces of even size. In the centre of each piece of paste place half a peeled tomato, which has previously been seasoned with salt and pepper, and from which some of the seeds have been removed. Wet the edges of the paste, fold over and press the ends, then brush over with a little milk. Place the pasties into a buttered “Express” paper- bag, and bake in a fairly hot oven on a grid shelf from 12 to 15 minutes. Raspberry and Currant Tartlets. Roll out, not too thinly, half a pound or more of puff paste, and line with it the required number of small pastry hoops orTHE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 113 tartlet moulds. Fill these with rice or dried peas, and slip into an “Express” paper-bag ; prick the top of the bag with a skewer, and bake on a grid in a moderate oven for about 12 minutes, or until the paste has acquired a golden colour. Take out the rice or peas, and fill the tartlet crusts with prepared raspberries and currants; pour over a little prepared syrup and place in the oven again for a few minutes to get hot. Sprinkle over with castor sugar and serve. French Cherry Tart. Roll out thinly some puff paste, and line with it a large pastry hoop or fiat cake tin. Fill this with stoned cherries, and sprinkle over with castor sugar mixed with a little ground cinnamon. Slip this into an “Express” paper-bag, fold in the ends and fasten with clips, and bake for about 15 to 20 minutes. When baked, take out of the bag, pour over some well reduced syrup, and serve. Sweet Banana Pasties. Roll out some rough puff paste and cut it into oblong pieces or squares of even size. Spread the centre of each piece of paste with a little apricot marmalade, upon this put half a banana (not too ripe), and sprinkle over with a little castor sugar mixed with ground cinnamon. Wet the edges of the paste, fold over, and press the ends. Now brush over with a little milk, H114 THE PAPEE-BAG COOKEEY MANUAL. and besprinkle with castor sugar. Then place the prepared pasties in a buttered “Express” paper-bag, and bake on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven for from 10 to 12 minutes. Savoury Banana Pasties. Proceed the same as directed in the fore- going recipes, but omit the sugar, cinnamon, and apricot marmalade. Instead, spread the paste with a little paprika butter before folding in the bananas. Then place in a buttered “Express” paper-bag and bake for about 10 minutes. Paprika Butter. This is made by mixing a tea-spoonful of paprika with about an ounce of butter and a little salt, knead it well and use as directed. Cheese Straws. Take some trimmings of puff paste and roll out to an oblong shape; sprinkle over carefully with finely grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, then cut the paste into neat even-sized strips; place them on a small greased baking tin, slip this carefully into a buttered “Express” paper-bag, and bake in a hot oven for about 10 minutes. Currant Cake. Get ready the following ingredients:— Half a pound of flour, one large tea-spoon- ful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, 3 ozs.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 115 of butter, two eggs, 4 ozs. of sugar, 4 ozs. of currants, and about half a teacup of milk. Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder, rub in the butter, add the sugar and cleaned currants. Make into a fairly stiff paste with the eggs and milk previously beaten up. Bake for about 25 minutes in a well buttered “Express” paper-bag, placed on a wire grid in a fairly hot oven. Milk Rolls. Take 8 ozs. of flour, 1 oz. of butter, half an ounce of castor sugar, one tea-spoonful of baking powder, salt, and milk to mix. Mix the flour and salt in a basin, rub in lightly the butter, add the sugar and baking powder, and mix with enough milk to form a dough; turn on to a floured board, make up into desired shapes, and brush over with sweetened milk; place them in a buttered “Express” paper-bag, put it on a wire grid and bake in a fairly hot oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Rich Plum Cake. Take three quarters of a pound of flour, 4 ozs. of castor sugar, 2 ozs. of raisins or sultanas, one tea-spoonful of baking powder, 2 ozs. of currants, 5 ozs. of butter, two eggs, 1 oz. of mixed peel, half a gill of milk, one tea-spoonful of ground cinnamon. Clean the fruit and cut the peel into fine shreds; sift the flour and mix with the baking powder, the fruit, peel, and cinnamon. Put the sugar and butter in a116 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. basin and beat to a smooth cream, add the yolks of eggs, and beat all well together. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix the dry ingredients gradually into the egg, sugar, and butter mixture, add also the milk, and lastly stir in lightly the whites of egg. Pour at once into a well buttered and floured “Express” paper-bag, close up the end securely, put it on a wire grid, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about 1J hours. Ginger Bread. Take half a pound of flour, 2 ozs. of butter or lard, 1 oz. of honey or treacle, 3 ozs. of brown sugar, two eggs, one tea- spoonful of baking powder, one gill of milk, one tea-spoonful each of ginger, cinnamon, and mixed spice, 1 oz. of candied peel, and 1 oz. of shredded almonds. Melt the honey or treacle, sugar, butter or lard together; mix the flour and spices, almonds, peel, baking powder, and salt well together in a basin; beat up the eggs. Make a well in the centre of the flour mix- ture, pour the melted mixture into this and stir well, then add the beaten eggs, and lastly, sufficient milk to make a light batter; beat well, and pour into a thickly buttered and floured “Express” bag, close up the end securely, and put at once on a wrire grid in a moderately hot oven; bake for about 45 minutes. When baked, take the cake out of the paper and allow to cool on a wire tray.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 117 Orange Cake. Take two eggs, their weight in butter, castor sugar, and ordinary flour, the grated rind of two oranges, one table-spoonful of milk, and one tea-spoonful of cornflour. Beat up the eggs, cream together the butter and the sugar ; mix the flour with the baking powder; add the flour and the eggs alternately to the creamed butter, mix well, then stir in the orange rind. Pour into a buttered and floured “Express’’paper- bag, close up the end and fasten with clips, and bake on a wire tray in a moderately heated oven for about 18 minutes. Cherry Cake. 2 ozs. of cornflour, 6 ozs. of flour, 4 ozs. of castor sugar, 4 ozs. of butter, four eggs, 4 ozs. preserved cherries, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and one tea-spoonful of grated lemon rind. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs one by one, beating well; mix together the cornflour and the ordinary flour, and the baking powder, and stir lightly into the batter; cut the cherries in two, and add them; last of all, add the lemon rind and mix lightly. Pour the pre- pared mixture into a buttered and floured “Express” bag, seal up the end and place on a wire tray, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about 40 minutes.118 THE PAPEK-BAG COOKEKY MANUAL. Cornflour Cake. Take 4 ozs. of cornflour, half a tea- spoonful of baking powder, 2 ozs. of butter, 8 ozs. of castor sugar, two eggs, and one lemon. Mix the cornflour with the baking powder; beat the butter with the sugar to a cream, then stir in the eggs and work well together; next, stir in lightly the cornflour and mix thoroughly; lastly, add the grated rind of half a lemon. Pour into a buttered and floured “ Express” bag, close up, and bake in a hot oven for about half an hour. Take out the cake carefully, and cool on a wire tray.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 119 SAVOURIES AND MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. Croutes a la Bedford. These are made as follows: Take six small water biscuits, spread each on one side with a little anchovy butter (anchovy paste mixed with butter), upon this place a thin slice of ripe tomato, sprinkle over with grated cheese, then place on a slice of banana and a little more grated cheese. Surmount with a slice of pickled walnut, season each with a good pinch of paprika pepper, and sprinkle over a few drops of clarified butter. Put the croutes thus pre- pared into a well buttered “Express” paper- bag, fold in the end and fasten with clips, then place in a fairly hot oven and bake for about 10 minutes. Dish up, garnish with parsley and thin slices of lemon; a tiny pinch of paprika (pink) pepper should be added to the walnut surmounting each croute before sending to table. Baked Cheese Custard. Take four eggs, half an ounce of butter, 1 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 4 ozs. of flour, salt, and Krona or paprika pepper. Melt the butter, add the flour, and well beat in the eggs; add salt and pepper to120 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. taste, then the grated cheese. Whisk all these together for several minutes, then pour into buttered paper souffle cases, place these in a paper-bag, fold in the end, put carefully on a shelf in a hot oven, and bake for about 18 minutes. Egg and Cheese Toast. Mix the yolks of two eggs with 1 oz. of butter and 2 ozs. of grated Cheddar or Gruyere cheese; add salt and cayenne to taste, also a little mustard. Cut some buttered toast into rounds or squares, spread the mixture thickly on them, place these in a paper-bag and bake in a sharp oven for a few minutes ; dish them up, and serve hot. Cheese Puffs. Grate 2 ozs. Gruyere cheese, put it into a basin and mix with it a tea-spoonful of grated horseradish, a pinch of cayenne, the white of an egg whisked stiffly; stir in enough fine bread crumbs to bind the mixture; make this up into small balls and place them in a well buttered paper-bag, fold and fasten the end, and bake on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven for about 15 minutes; dish up, and serve hot. Cheese Biscuits. Take half a pound of (sifted) flour, quarter of a pound of butter, one yolk of egg, quarter of a tea-spoonful of paprika pepper, 6 ozs.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 121 of butter, and 6 ozs. of grated Parmesan or Gruy&re cheese. Mix the flour and cheese in a basin, rub in the butter, then add the pepper, and mix with the egg yolk, and, if necessary, a few drops of water to form a smooth paste ; roll out on a floured board about a quarter of an inch in thickness, stamp out some rounds or ovals, place them in a buttered paper- bag, close up securely, and bake in a hot oven for about 10 minutes. Yorkshire Pudding. Sift 4 ozs. of flour into a basin and add a pinch of salt; beat up an egg with a little milk, then add it to the flour, and commence to stir till a smooth paste is obtained. Add, whilst stirring, about half a pint of milk and beat for 10 minutes; pour into a well-greased “Express” paper-bag, put a little dissolved butter or dripping from roast meat on top, fasten the bag carefully with wire clips, and place it on a wire grid, then put it in a fairly hot oven and bake for about half an hour. When done, slit the bag open, take out the pudding, cut up into neat squares, dish up, and serve with roast beef. Clarified Butter. This is best made by putting, say, half a pound of fresh or salt butter in a gallipot or other earthenware pot, stand it in a hot oven; when the butter is quite hot122 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. and appears clear, remove the scum or froth which rises on the surface. Dripping from roast meat is also excellent for greasing paper-bags. This should be melted down in a saucepan and allowed to get thoroughly hot, but not smoking. It will be much improved by mixing with it, say, one-third of clarified butter, then strain it, and use with a brush whilst liquid, but not hot. Savoury Banana Stuffing. For roast pork, goose or duck, etc. Peel six or eight ripe bananas and chop rather coarsely, season well with salt and pepper, and add half a breakfastcup of wThite bread crumbs, a beaten egg, chopped parsley, and savoury herbs to taste. Mix the whole well, and stuff the meat or birds in the usual manner with this preparation. The delicate flavour of the bananas will give a delicious aroma to the birds when cooked with this stuffing. Apple Sauce. Peel, core, and slice thinly three sour cooking apples, put them in a well buttered paper-bag with half a gill of water, a clove, 1 oz. of sugar, and half an ounce of butter, close up the bag securely, fasten it with clips, place on a wire grid in a moderate oven, and cook for about 25 minutes. Put the contents of the bag in a basin, take out the clove, and mix the apples to a pulp. Serve with roast duck or pork.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 123 SOME SPECIMEN MENUS FOB LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS. All the Dishes named in these Menus are cooked in paper-bags, the Recipes for which are contained in this book. Boiled Halibut. Cream Sauce. Roast Chicken with Sausages. Vegetable Marrow. Grilled Kidneys. Bacon and Bananas. French Cherry Tart. Cheese Straws. Trout a la Royale. Roast Pigeons. Green Peas d la Frangaise. Potato Chijjs. Manchester Pudding. Cheese Puffs. Fillets of Plaice. Irish Stew. Yorkshire Pudding. Stuffed Tomatoes. Raspberry Tartlets.124 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. Steamed Whiting. Roman Macaroni Pie. Duchess Potatoes. Grilled Ham. Baked Apples with Whipped Cream. Baked Cheese Custard. Stuffed Haddock. Beef Olives. Marble Potatoes. Tomatoes with Bacon. Baked Custard. Rock Cakes. Turbot d la Creme. Roast Beef. Yorkshire Pudding. Broad Beans. Baked Potatoes. Souffle Omelet. Broiled Salmon Steak. Curried Chicken. Cornish Pasties. Carrots d la Vichy. Sultana Pudding. Whiting a la Meuniere. Boiled Beef. Suet Dumplings. Roast Duck, Apple Sauce. Kidney Potatoes. Friar's Omelet.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 125 Fish Pie. Mutton Cutlets with Tomatoes. Saute Potatoes. Stuffed Mushrooms. Baked Apple Batter. Baked Mackerel. Veal Olives with Tomato Sauce. Savoury Ham Patties. Banana Pudding. Compote of Fruit. Skate with Cream Sauce. Oxford Duck. Curried Lentils. Baked Tomatoes. Vanilla Souffle. Baked Fillets of Plaice. Exeter Stew. Savoury Dumplings. Hominy Pudding. Curried Prawns. Grilled, Sole. Spiced Shoulder of Mutton. Curried Veal with Iiice. Milk Pudding. Stewed Fruit.126 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 17 DONTS in Paper-Bag Cookery. 1. —Don’t forget to examine each bag care- fully before using, and if any possible rent, tear, or tendency to become un- fastened is discovered, to repair the defect with white of egg or a little paste made with flour and water. 2. —Don’t omit to brush over the inside of each bag thoroughly with clarified butter, clarified dripping, lard, or good olive oil. 8.—Don’t fail to cut, saw, or trim off all projecting sharp bones, fins, or pointed skewers, such as are likely to pierce the paper-bag, before placing meat or fish in the bag. 4. —Don’t forget, when once the food has been placed in the proper sized bag, to fold over at least twice the opening of the bag, and fasten with wire clips; to turn down both corners, and secure also with a wire clip. 5. —Don’t put the loaded bag on a hot grid, trivet, or shelf in the oven ; place it on a cold grid on the hot oven shelf. 6. —Don’t forget to remove the top portion of the paper-bag a few minutes before the meat is done, when a joint or bird is required to be nicely browned.THE PAPEE-BAG COOKEEY MANUAL. 127 7. —Don’t forget to ascertain the correct heat of the oven before placing in the food. 8. —Don’t place the paper-bag in too hot an oven, or in the case of a gas oven, too near the gas jets, so as to cause the paper to scorch or burn. 9. —Don’t attempt to economise when once a bag is scorched, remove it at once, and put the food in a fresh bag. 10. —Don’t omit to observe the instructions for obtaining and maintaining the proper oven temperatures; the cooking times for each kind of food will be found on pages 19 and 20 in this book. 11. -*-Don’t forget to use a wire trivet or grid to support the bag in every case, whether the oven shelf be of the “solid” or “open bar” variety, whether the cooking be done by gas, coal, oil, or electricity. 12. —Don’t consider the Senn Oven Thermo- meter a permanent oven fixture during the cooking process. Place the thermo- meter in the oven only when you wish to test the heat. 18.—Don’t, please don’t, put this reliable little half-crown, china thermometer directly over the naked flame, and then express surprise if it cracks. 14.—Don’t omit, when baking pastry, to punch or pierce a few small holes here and there in the end of the bag with a skewer or the prongs of a fork, this will ensure the pastry acquiring a golden brown.128 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 15. —Don’t spill, or otherwise waste, any liquor or gravy retained in the bag in which certain kinds of food is cooked ; it is valuable, and should be made good use of. 16. —Don’t forget to dish up all foods neatly; put the whole bag with the grid as it leaves the oven on a large dish, cut or break the paper and place the food care- fully on a dish. 17. —Don’t forget that the genuine cooking bag—the bag that can always be relied upon, and will not fail to give satisfactory results if the common-sense precautions outlined above are observed—bears the words “ ‘Daily Express’ Papakuk ” em- bossed at the open end of the bag.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 129 PAPER-BAG COOKING HINTS. The real and ultimate success of any fresh method of cooking whatsoever depends upon its effect on the palate and digestion. Everything else—labour saving, time sav- ing even absence of kitchen aromas—is secondary to the great question as to whether we are getting our food better cooked by the new system, and it is doing us more good. That is why I am rather inclined to deprecate the insistance that has been laid on the merely expeditious advantages said to attach to paper-bag cookery. Getting rid of pots and pans, halving time and abolishing the odours of the cuisine, are not so important as ensuring an improved meal, both for the taste and the stomach. It is the cook’s business to consider whether the quicker system is also the more effective from a strictly dietetic point of view. Holding as I do that cooking in paper- bags possesses many obvious advantages, I have endeavoured to set forth some directions calculated to assist the cook in obtaining the best possible results. Un- doubtedly, paper-bag cookery is capable of producing some exquisite dishes, but only, of course, if it is scientifically carried out. j130 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. The following additional hints and obser- vations on the subject should therefore be carefully studied by those adopting this system :— First, the bag itself: This must be made of grease-proof paper, and be free from all injurious chemicals, both in its own composition and the paste used to bind it together. The size of the bag should be as convenient as possible for the amount of food intended to go in it— neither too large nor too small. A thorough examination should be made to make sure that there is no possibility of leakage. The slightest leakage would lead to the escape of juice, gravy, or flavour, thus tending to spoil the food so cooked. In the case of pastry or milk puddings, it is desirable to prick the top of the paper here and there. Before the bags are used they must be well greased over the inside with clarified butter, lard, clarified dripping, or olive oil. This has the effect of rendering them extra grease-proof as well as air-proof, a great factor in the success of any cooking by this process. In the case of meat for roasting, it is not so essential to grease the paper outside. When the food material has been placed in the bag, the opening must be folded over several times and secured with two, three, or more wire clips, so that the bag is well sealed.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 13 The next important point is the oven. If a gas oven is used, it should be lighted at least 10 minutes before the food is placed in it. The initial oven-heat should not be less than 220 degrees Fahrenheit. To ascertain the correct heat a cooking thermometer should be used. The paper-bag, when filled and ready for cooking, must be placed in the oven on a grid shelf, such as is usually provided in gas cooking stoves. In the case of coal- heated ovens, which have solid iron shelves, a wire grid or trivet should be used. The use of an oven thermometer, which can now be procured for the modest sum of 2s. 6c?., is recommended, so as to ascertain the correct temperature of the oven before the food is put in to be cooked. Hints on Sauce Making. To make a sauce without the use of a saucepan or stewpan is a somewhat difficult problem, but this is by no means impossible by the paper-bag cookery system, as will be seen from the directions given in a number of the recipes in this book. In several instances cream and egg-yolks are recom- mended for the purpose of thickening liquids — also Compound Butters. The latter are well known to all chefs, and these produce excellent results. The object is to knead or mix, say, an ounce of butter with about half an ounce of flour, cornflour, or arrowroot; this is seasoned and flavoured to taste, according132 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. to the kind of fish, meat, or game which is to be cooked in a paper-bag, being spread over the inner part of the article. The following additional hints are given for those who desire to have a rich sauce: Sauce for Lamb. Mix a little finely-chopped green mint with butter and flour, and spread it inside or over the outside of the meat before cooking it. Sauce for Mutton. Mix half a clove of finely-crushed garlic with butter and flour, and insert it in the meat to be cooked. Sauce for Beef. Grate finely a little horse-radish and mix it with kneaded flour and butter. Enrich it with a little cream, and stir it into hot gravy, which must be poured in the paper- bag containing the beef, so as to cook for about 15 minutes. Sauce for Game. Peel and chop finely a shallot, and mix it with butter and flour, add also a peeled and chopped ripe tomato. Spread this over the game to be cooked, and, in the case of a bird, put it in the inside. During the cooking process, and with the help of the natural gravy which collects in the bag, this will : fiuce by adding a little hot eeessary seasoning.LEMCO ■OMPANY’S.EXTRA EXTRACT OFJrfK tnend that is always rqacty— for the preparation of a hurried snack or a six course dinner; that makes you independent of soups, and flavourings, and stock-pots; that strengthens the iqestion.pleases the palate, and restores italityiolired limns. —LHTVTCO. . THAMES Mouse, e c. tntifTo make a lovely light Sponge Cake use “FLAKNA” SPONGE MIXTURE. Per 2d. Pkt. EASILY AND QUICKLY MADE. ASK YOUR GROCER FOR IT. To attain perfection it is necessary to use BORWIOK’S in making Cakes, Pastry, etc., as it absolutely ensures their lightness.THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 1*5 GENERAL INDEX. PAGE Apple Batter ... 104 Apple Dumplings ... 97 Apple Sauce 122 Apples, Baked ... 98 Bachelor Pudding ... 101 Bacon, Broiled ... 63 Bananas with Bacon 85 Bananas and Cream 85 Bananas,Fried(Savoury)85 Bananas, Fried ... 106 Banana Pasties ... 113 Banana Pie ... ... 106 Banana Rolls ... 105 Banana Souffle ... 107 Banana Stuffing ... 122 Banana Pudding ... 108 Banana Tart ... 105 Beef, Boiled ... ... 51 Beef Fillets Viennoise 71 Beef Olives 56 Beef, Roast (see Joints) 50 Beef, Sauce for ... 132 Beef Steak Pudding... 60 Bloater Fillets ... 46 BordeauxPigeon .Stuffed 79 Broad Beans 86 Browning of Pastry... 110 Butter Bean Croquettes 92 Butter, Clarified ... 121 Cabbage, Savoury ... 95 Cali's Liver and Baoon 61 Carrots k la Vichy ... 86 Castle Potatoes ... 88 Cheese Biscuits ... 120 Cheese Custard ... 119 Cheese Puffs 120 PAGE Cheese Straws ... 114 Cherry Cake 117 Cherry Tart, French 113 Chicken, Boiled ... 73 Chioken, Curried ... 75 Chioken Fricass6 ... 76 Chicken Livers ... 74 Chioken Patties ... 7T Chicken with Rice ... 74 Chicken, Roast ... 73 Chioken, Spatchcook of 75 Chop, Steamed ... 57 Chops and Steaks ... 52 Cocoanut Pudding ... 96 Cod Steak with Ham 32 Colcannon 91 Cornflour Cake ... 118 Cornish Pasties ... 69 Crofites & la Bedford 119 Cup Mushrooms,Broiled 91 Currant Cake ... 114 Currant Cookies ... 100 Custard, Baked ... 100 Duchesse Potatoes ... 88 Duck, Roast 77 Egg and Cheese Toast 120 Exeter Stew 57 “Express” Mixed Grill 67 Fish, Boiled ... ... 29 Fish Cakes ... ... 44 Fish Pie ... 45 Fish Sauces ... ... 30 Fish Souchet ... 36 Friar’s Omelet ... 102 Fruit CompSte ... 108136 THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. PAGE Game, Sauce for 132 Gingerbread 116 Gravy for Roast Meats 51 Greengages, Stewed... 109 Green Peas ... 94 Green Peas k la Franchise ... 94 Grouse with Bacon ... 78 Grouse, Roast 78 Haddock Fillets with Anchovy Butter ... 34 Haddock, Stuffed ... 33 Ham, Boiled 62 Ham and Eggs 72 Ham Patties, Savoury 63 Haricot Mutton 58 Hashed Meat 66 Herrings, Baked 30 Herring Roes on Toast 45 Hominy Pudding 96 Hot Pot 70 Irish Stew 59 Jam Pudding, Rolled 98 Joints, Roast 50 Kidneys a la Franchise s 71 Kidney Potatoes 86 Lamb, Sauce for 132 Lentils, Curried 93 Mackerel, Baked 30 Mackerel Fillets 31 Manchester Pudding 107 Marble Potatoes 38 Milk Rolls 115 Minced Meat 66 Mushrooms, Farced... 91 Mushrooms with Ham 92 Mutton Cutlets 53 Mutton Rolls 54 Mutton, Sauce for ... 132 Mutton, Shoulder of... 61 PAGE Omelette k la Chantilly 103 Omelette Souffle ... 102 Orange Cake 117 Oxford Duck 68 Oysters, Breaded ... 49 Oyster Cakes ... 49 Oysters, Creamed ... 48 Paprika Butter ... 114 Parsley Butter ... 31 Partridge, Roast ... 79 Pheasant, Roast ... 77 Pigeon, Roast ... 79 Plaice Fillets ... 33 Plum Cake, Rich ... 115 Plum Roly Pudding... 99 Pork and Bacon, Boiled 62 Pork a la Robert ... 72 Pork Sausages ... 52 Potato Chips ... 87 Potatoes, Baked ... 87 Potatoes Maitre d’Hdtel 89 Potatoes, Saut6 ... 89 Prawns, Curried ... 47 Prunes, Stewed ... 109 Puff Paste ... ... 110 Puff Paste (rough) ... Ill Quails, Roast ... 78 Rabbit, Roast ... 81 Raspberry and Currant Tartlets 112 Rechaufl'6 Meat ... 66 Red Mullet, Maitre d’Hotel 42 Rice, Boiled 93 Rice, Curried, and Tomatoes ... 93 Roast Meat 50 Roly Pudding, Baked 99 Roman Macaroni Pie 68 Sage and Onion Stuffing 69 Salmi or Wild Duck 80 Salmon Coquilles ... 39THE PAPER-BAG COOKERY MANUAL. 137 PAGE Salmon Croquettes ... 39 Salmon Cutlets with Fine Herbs ... 38 Salmon Steak, Broiled 37 Salmon Steak, Curried 37 Sauce Making Hints 131 Sausage Rolls ... 60 Savoury Balls ... 58 Savoury Ham Patties 63 Scallops, Stewed ... 48 Scotch Oollops ... 63 Semolina Pudding ... 99 Sheep’s Heart, Stuffed 69 Sheep’s Kidneys with Mushrooms ... 64 Skate 32 Sole a la Crime ... 36 Sole, Fried Fillets of 85 Sole, Grilled 34 Sole a la Whitebait... 35 Souffll Omelet ... 102 Spiced Shoulder of Mutton 61 Spinach 95 Spotted Dick 100 Strawberry Soufflls ... 103 Suet Dumplings ... 51 Sultana Pudding ... 105 Sweetbread ... oMl?... 67 PAGE Tapioca Pudding • • • 96 Toad-in-the-Hole • • • 70 Tomatoes with Bacon 89 Tomatoes, Baked • • • 90 Tomato Pasties • • • 112 Tomatoes, Stuffed • • • 90 Trout a la Royale • • • 47 Turbot & la Crime • • • 41 Turbot, Paupiettes of 40 Twice Laid ... • • • 46 Vanilla Souffll • • • 101 Veal, Curried • • • 65 Veal Outlets ... • • • 54 Veal Olives ... • • • 56 Veal Roulade • • • 64 Veal Steak ... • • • 55 Vegetable Marrow • • • 84 Venison, Roast • • • 80 Vol-au-Vent ... • • • 111 Whiting, Baked • • • 43 Whiting, Fried • • • 43 Whiting a la Meunilre 44 Whiting, Steamed • • • 42 Widgeon, Salmi of • • • 80 Yorkshire Pudding • • • 121It is a surprise to many famous chefs to see what one little women can accom- plish in the way of cooking dainty dishes by the aid of thej PRACTICAL Cookery Manual By C. HERMAN SENN. 5th Edition Now Ready. This valuable cooking guide book deals with some 400 lucidly written and care- fully tested Recipes for the preparation of all kinds of dishes suitable for middle- class households, with useful hints on marketing. PRICE 1/- NET. To be obtained of all Booksellers; or post free 1/3 from tbe Publishers: The Food & Cookery Publishing Agency, Victoria, :s.w.Paper-Bag Cookery THE MAIN “KENT” OR “SUSSEX” COOKER is just what is wanted SUCCESSFUL PAPER-BAG EFFICIENT AND ECONOMICAL IN RESULTS. for COOKERY. THE IDEAL COOKERS FOR PAPER-BAG COOKERY. TAT R. & A. MAIN, LIMITED, Showrooms 26, PRINCES STREET, Cavendish Square, Oxford Circus, W.To every pound of ordinary flour add 2 ozs. (one id. packet) of “Paisley Flour” —the sure raising powder— and mix dry. Mix it fresh every time—it only takes a minute. Stir round till the lighter coloured “Paisley Flour” disappears and sift through a dredger. In this way you have a self-raising flour superior to anything you can buy—one in which the raising pow- der has lost none of its virtue by waiting, exposure to air or damp in shops, etc. And it will cost you no more, if not less, than ready-made self-raising flour, and very much less than cake and bun flours and mixtures. Made by Brown & Poison, in 7d., 3^d. and id. packets.Paper-Bag Cookery because it browns as well as thickens and salts the dishes, and makes splendid gravy. Of Grocers - - 6d., 3d., Id. made by CEREBOS, LIMITED.NO WOMAN CAN BEAD the “ Daily Express ” without realising what a store of useful, topical, and interesting information is contained in its columns. The Ladies’ Day proper is on Mondays, but on practically every day of the week there are numerous items of domestic interest and utility. The “ Daily Express ” is the ideal home paper, being of equal value to every member of the family. Its large and steadily rising circulation is proof of its popularity—a popularity due at once to its admirable news service and its impartial criticism of current events. The “ Daily Express ” is the favourite morning journal in hundreds of thousands of homes, and the reason is THE “DAILY EXPBESS” ^d. daily. Of all Newsagents and Bookstalls.V