12 deatlis all within tlio sixth day after the operation. Now, add these facts to the table for 1868 which I have quoted, and see how interesting is the lesson; how the results of the special operation tully in the main with those of the table. In the first quarter the deaths, in Mr. Wells's cases, are 1 in 5-3; in the second, excluding the death two hours after operation, 1 in 13 ; in the third, 1 in 5 ; in the fourth, 1 in 1-8. These observations are precise, but I have observed year after year practically the same relationships. I have extended the ob- servation to deaths in which the fatal result has been recognised as due to fibrinous deposition in the heart, of which I see so many cases ; and the estimate I have been able to form from the whole series of observations has rendered me the approxi- mate truth which is now attempted to be explained. From the facts, then, we gather that the last quarter of the year is the period most favourable to the fatality of cases in which increment of animal heat is the first and distinguishing symptom. The last quarter is clearly the central quarter of the season In which these diseases are most fatal. There are fluctua- tions sometimes on the side of the quarter which precedes it, and sometimes on the side of the quarter which foUows it, but it retains its plaoe. Singularly, too, the December of this quarter is the centre of a period of seven months—September, October, November, December, January, February, and March—during which there is occurrinar in the animal organism a marked modification in the nutrition as compared with the five remsdning months —April, May, June, July, and August. In the period in which December is the centre, there is, as the admirable researches of the late Mr. Milner, of Wakefield, have shown, a determinate loss of animal weight in persons living under the same precise circumstances in respect to food, clotliing, and exercise ; while in the five other months there is an increase of weight. The maximum of decrease is in March, of increase in August.* ' Mr. Milner's observations on this subject are in their way the most laborious and valuable on record. From his position as Surgeon to the convict establisliment at Wakefield, Mr. Milner was enabled to weigh every prisoner at given periods, to compare the gain and loss throughout the