23 APPENDIX. SmcE the publication of my last lecture " On Meteorological Eeadiags in Relation to Surgical Practice," I have become in- debted to Dr. Silver for a knowledge of an essay on the same sub- ject pubHshed by Dr. Addinell Hewson in the Pennsylvanian Hos- pital Reports, vol. ii. 1869. I was not until now aware that in any Hospital in the world a register of Surgical operations had been kept, together with a meteorological register. But from Dr. Hewson's admirable contribution I learn that, for the long period of thirty years, records of the cases of primary amputa- tion previous to the year 1860 have been stored up at the Penn- sylvanian Hospital, with a meteorological register, " most faithfully kept at the Hospital during all that period by Dr. Conrad, the Apothecary." I learn, further, that the total number of cases of operation for which the Pennsylvanian Sur- geons have full meteorological records is 259 ; the results as analysed by Dr. Hewson stand as follows :— " On the occasion of the 259 operations, the barometer was ascending ia 102, descending in 123, and stationary in 34. " Fifty-four of the whole number were fatal; 11 of them were operated on when the barometer was ascending, 36 when it was descending, and 8 when it was stationary. " Of the successful cases, 91 were operated on with an ascendiag barometer, 88 with it descending, and 26 with it stationary. " Prom which it would seem," says Dr. Hewson, "that we got a mortality, when the operation was performed with the barometer ascending, of not quite 11 (10-7) percent.; of over 20 (20-6) per cent, with it stationary; and over 28 (28-4) per cent, with it descending." " Of the fatal cases, the average length of time which the patient survived the operation was only seven days when the barometer was ascending, and thirteen when it was descending ; and of the cases which died within three days over 75 per cent, were when the barometer was ascending." In so far, then, as general results are concerned. Dr. Hewson is brought by his precise statistical evidence to the same point as myself. Thinking by different methods, we have converged to the same truth. He had the advantage of comparing thirty years' direct Surgical observation side by side with thirty years' meteorological observation. I was obliged to consider Surgical fever m conjunction with its allies, and to compare these to-