7 keep it in steady action, all the thermometers in the cups show the same degree of heat in all parts of the peripheiy; but if I cut off one of the limbs—say a hand from the artificial system —by dividing the connecting wire, as at F in the diagram, the temperature of the mercury in all the other cups rises, and the thermometers register the fact. The batteiy power is the same before as after the division, but there is so much resist- ance from the operation which has been performed, that there is elevation of temperature in the remaining part of the system. If, instead of using a battery and wires, I could use tubes, like arteries, capillaries and veins, could charge them with a current of heated fluid, and could keep that fluid up to a given temperature as it circulated, I should more faithfully represent the animal mechanism, mechanically, than I have represented it here. But the facts elicited would be the same—that is to aay, on cutting off a given portion of the circulating force there would be resistance in the remaining parts and increment of heat. The inflammatory fever of John Hunter—or sympathetic fever, as he sometimes called it—is, when simply understood, in the same manner an increment of heatfromresistance, and the increase of water in the blood, the apparent increase of fibrine and the adhesive infiltrations that may follow are but the sequelae of the first divergence from that natural process of animal motion in which there is perfected equalisation of the force produced within the organism. You will remember an experiment performed in my lecture last year on decrement of animal heat, and I refer to it now because it illustrates well the point before us. A pigeon was put instantaneously to sleep in vapour of bichloride of methy- lene, and was let to die instantly. The natural temperature of the bird was 107° Fahr. before death ; but so soon as the death took place, so soon as the muscular motion—motion of respira- tion, circulation, and digestion—ceased in the animal, the temperature rose three degrees. Why ? Because in the animal after death there was still chemical action progressing for a short time, and, as that was not disposed of as motion—that is to say, as the normal process of equalisation was interfered