5 from evaporation of water, or increased secretion or radiation, there will be increment of heat and Surgical fever. Let me illustrate this explanationby a simple piece of mechan- ism which is here constructed. There are mapped out on a board the arterial and venous systems of a man. The arteries are represented by insulated copper wires, and the veins are repre- sented in a similar way. AU the arteries have a common ori- gin from a bundle or rope of wire which enters at what may b9 called the point of ori^-in of the great aorta, c ; then they divide as the great arterial trunks divide—some to the brain, some to the extremities. At the termination of each arterial course, the arterial wire is made into a fine coil representing the capillary surface, dd, dd, dd, and within each of these coils is placed a small glass tube containing a little mercury, and holding a small thermometer. The extended arterial or capillary coils terminate in the return wires, which we may call the venous wires, e, ee, and idtimately all the venous wires are made to coalesce into one cord or bundle, a, which emerges from the system at the point where the arterial cord enters. The two terminal bundles or cords are finally connected with a small Grove's battery, a ; they are so connected that the voltaic current passes from the battery through the wires which represent the arterial system, through the coils which represent the peripheral system, and through the wires which represent the venous system back to the battery. And now, when the battery is put into action, we notice this phenomenon, that the mercury in the little cups, which are sur- rounded by the coils, gains, as you will expect, in temperature, and, other things being equal, the rise of temperature in each cup is equal, so that the thermometer in all stands at the same level—in brief, there is equilibrium ; the force derived from the battery is equally distributed to every part, and so long as the battery power remains the same, and the surrounding air the same, there is the same manifestation of heat. If the battery begins to faU, there is a general reduction of temperature ; if another ceU be added, there is a general gain of temperature. The changes of decrease and increase are dependent on the battery. When, then, I do not interfere with the battery, but