10 least, of the results of the world altogether. There remain, con- sequently, from ten to fifteen per cent, of cases in which death follows operation, and, although this is a very small number compared with the whole number operated upon, it is a huge totality per year. The cause of this mortahty is a question we have to ask. We may throw overboard at once any fault in Surgical art, for although Surgeons are mortal, it is one of the wonders of the age how rarely they have an accident that is fatal in the course of an operation. And so there remain behind those causes which were enume- rated at the beginning of this lecture, chief of aU Surgical fever. And now I come to this consideration :—Is the increment of animal heat influenced by external conditions, and if so, what are they ? If it be so, and we can read those conditions, we can reduce mortality. We appeal first for knowledge re- specting external influences. They are season, temperature, barometrical pressure, moisture of air, electrical condition of air, direction and force of wind. We will consider these briefly in detaU. Season. When we study the influence of season in relation to changes in the body, we include in one view not only the combined influence of atmospherical changes, but certain great and singular changes which are progressing within the body itself. The general influence of season on the results of Surgical practice is of the most significant import, for Surgical fever, in relation to mortality, comports itself with aU that class of general disease which is attended with increment of heat— scarlet fever, acute rheumatism, erysipelas, puerperal fever, carbuncle; and the facts relating to the mortahty of all of these are in such accord they admit of no doubt. These diseases, when considered on an efficient scale, all have seasons when their mortahty prevails ; for example, from an analysis of 139,318 deaths from all diseases, during the year 1838 to 1853, I found by the Registrar-General's tables that the mortality from three of the diseases of the class named held the follow- ing proportion, in regard to mortality :—