15 are the precise conditions hj wHch in experiment we should expect to produce an elevation of animal temperature with or even -without injury. They are conditions the most unfavour- able to equalisation of heat by evaporation and radiation. And thus I am brought to advance the general rules—not as absolute rules, but as approximations to the truth—that, with a barometrical reading below 29-670, humidity above 80, and a mean temperature below 50° Fahr., the conditions are unfavour- able for recovery from large Surgical operations. On the other hand, the conditions are favourable with the barometer at or over 29-869, the degree of humiditj about 73, and the mean temperature not less than 65° Fahr. To enable the Surgeon to act on the rules thus submitted, I have requested Messrs. Home and Thomthwaite to construct for me the small portable apparatus which is now before you. It consists of a little cabinet perforated on each side for the free admission and circulation of air, and provided with a dry and wet bulb thermometer and an aneroid barometer. This cabinet can be carried conveniently to the place where a Surgical operation is to be performed, and can be put in the ward or chamber where the patient lies. To make it more useful, I have added to it a few simple rules for the guidance of the Practitioner. Tou will observe that I have as yet said nothing respecting the presence or absence of ozone or the detection of it. There is not much to be said. At the present time the modes of determining ozone and the tests for ozone, in the external air, are very unsatisfactory. Ozone is so readily used up, in crowded communities, by organic decomposing matters in the air, that it may really be present and yet not be detectible by the common tests now in use. In a conjoint paper by Dr. Moffatt and myself, contributed to the Epidemiological Society in March, 1854, we showed that with certain of the winds there are periods of ozone, and that with other winds there may be no ozone, the ozone periods accompanying south or equatorial currents of wind, and the periods of absence of ozone being those when the north or polar currents of wind prevail. The periods of ozone correspond with those seasons when there is increase of