17 the barometrical readings and humidity. South and south- westerly winds are, I think, unfavourable to operation; westerly and north-westerly are favourable ; north and north-easterly, and even easterly, winds are not unfavourable. As to the force of the horizontal movement of the wind, I have not been able to determine as yet that it makes any material difference in relation to mortality. On the whole, I believe that the readings of the barometer and of the dry and wet bulb thermometers are the most practical and useful guides in respect to Surgical operations, and the hours favourable or unfavourable for the perfoi-mance of ope- rations. Aetificiai Eembdiai Measuees. One other subject remains to be considered; I mean the artificial means which are at our command to meet atmospheric changes. We have at command the means for meeting two atmospheric conditions ; we can regulate temperature, and we can determine humidity. These are always important conside- rations, and at all seasons, even the best, should have the fullest attention. With the little cabinet of instruments now before us, a nurse can read temperature, hirmidity, and barometrical pressure, with ease, in the sick room. But to regulate temperature and humidity, a proper aad scientific administration of air into the room or ward is required. Our present systems are a universal mistake. The open firegrate and open window are practically worthless proceedings ; indeed, the open window is an absolute danger. We have, however, now at our service one or two methods by which we can regulate the amount of air, the warmth of air. and the humidity. In the diagrams there are represented, in section, two stoves which meet the objects in view; the stoves themselves are on the lecture table. The long stove (Fig. 3), called by its inventor the " hygrometric," is invented by Mr. Jones, of Aylesbury, and was exhibited last year at the Medical Society of London, with a description of its action by Mr. Ceeley. The stove consists of a hoUow metallic cylinder, the interior of which is heated by gas or by a large lamp. Through the tube, a, air is admitted from tlio