13 Special Meteoeological iNFLtrENCES. So far we have considered the general influences of the seasons on Surgical mortality, but to rest on this consideration ■would lead us into en-or. The seasons afford great outlines for study, but nothing more, and we should soon be plunged year, and to estimate such gain and such loss, by individual against indi- vidual, and by diet against weight. The prisoners upon whom the observa- tions were made had been sent to Wakefield to undergo the fli-st portion of their punishment. They were kept in separate cells for a period of nine months, they were aU males between the ages of 15 and 60, and they were all in good health when they arrived. Their cells having an equal capacity and the same means of ventilation, they were served with the same quantity and character of air, and the mean temperature of the ceUs was in every case 61°. The men were aU fed on the same kinds of food, they were all di'essed in the same attire, and they were made to take the same amount of exercise. They were weighed on admission, and again at the latter end of every calendar month during their stay. The nimiber of men weighed by Mr. Malner exceeded 4000; the period of time occupied in his observations was ten years; the average number of piisoners weighed monthly was 372; and the total nimiber of individual weighings was 44,004. To begin with the first months of the year, he found that the body tmdergoes an average loss of weight in January, February, and March, the proportion of loss being 1'14 in January, 0'24 in Febniary, and 0'95 in March. Dm-ing the months of April, May, June, July, and August, there is gain in the following pro- portions :—For April, 0'03; for May, 0 01; for June, 0'52 ; for July, 0'08 ; or August, 0'70. In September, October, and December, there is loss in proportion of 0'21 for September, O'lO for October, and 0'03 for December. November presents an exception to the months that precede and follow it, there being an average gain of 0'004; so that, at first sight, November would seem to be an exception in the losing series of months that precede and follow it, in a very, very slight degree. But Mr. Milner points out that this apparent exception was caused in the prisoners by the arrival of large numbers of new men in each year, and from the fact that the men usually gain weight for a short time after they are received ; so that this break in the series results from the influence of the stage of imprisonment. On the whole, there is an average loss begiiming in December, and increa.sing rapidly up to March. In April there is an abrupt gain, which extends irregularly until August. In September there is a rapid loss, which con- tinues, but not to the same extent, thi-ough October. Fi'om these facts Mr. Milner draws the following inferences :—1. The body becomes heavier during the summer months, and the gain varies in an increasing ratio; 2. The body becomes lighter dming the winter months, and the loss varies in an increasing ratio; 3. Tlie changes from gain to loss, and the reverse, are abrupt, and take place about the end of March and the beginning of September.