19 chimney, through which the warm air passes to the upper per- forated vault or chamber, where it is deflected by the damper G, and then passes into the room. The shorter stove (Fig. 4) is the invention of Mr. "Webb George. It consists of a furnace. A, surrounded by a cylinder of wrought iron. At the lower part of the stove and behind, a tube enters from the outer air, which tube forms a spiral within the stove, and terminates at the upper part, B. The air is thus simply heated by passing through the spiral, and the products of com- bustion are carried away by the flue, which is provided with a damper, d. By making an extra chamber at o the air can be carried over a drying surface, and can be brought into the room iu any degree of humidity. This stove answers exceed- iagly well when it is properly managed, and by it, in a small room, the air can be raised to 140° Fahr. The introduction, rapidly, of pure air secures also a good ventilation. But, after all, these arrangements do not meet the difficulty of atmospheric pressure. When the barometer is low there are changes in the body which are not easily explained. There is tendency to congestion of lung and to mechanical resistance in the pulmonary circuit; there is tendency to exudation of fluid from wounded surfaces, there is a feebleness in the healing of wounds, and in the body generally a susceptibility to dis- turbance which is not presented when the atmospheric pressure is firm and at its maximum. We are indeed, in health, made sensible of low barometrical pressure by many signs: tooth- ache, pains in the joints, what are commonly called nervous symptoms, these are signs, with others, with which we are most of us familiar ; signs which one of our immortals, Jenner, has epitomised, in by no means contemptible verse, as an excuse for declining the invitation of a friend to make a country excur- sion.* Lastly, when the barometric pressure is low, the production of secondary animal poisoning is a marked phenomenon. It is as though the fluids then secreted by wounded and diseased surfaces * See life of Jenner, in "Lives of British Physicians," edited by our friend, John Fernandez Clai'ke, who seems to live—and may the life be long—with his illustrious brethien of the dead.