■4 Wien, then, we narrow our practice to this limit, we find after operation a few prominent and immediate causes of death. They are {a) immediate shock, (b) syncope from haemor- rhage, (c) tetanus, (d) gangrene, (e) exhaustion from discharge, (./) increment of animal heat from resistance, giving rise to one or other of the types, apparently different, but really the same in essence, of Surgical fever. The last of these causes of death is that which fiUs up the balance-sheet against Surgery ; it is that, also, with which we have now to deal. In a previous lecture I have dwelt with care and clearness on the effects of increment of animal heat. I have shown what is a fatal increment; I have shown that the direct effect of increment is to cause contraction of vessel, suppression of watery secretion, and separation of fibrine from accumulation of water in the blood. The induction of these changes within the body by incre- ment of heat is, moreover, a simple act. Aa animal which cannot cool down rapidly enough to meet even a moderate increase of external temperature will show increment of heat that shall be fatal in an air in which another animal may live unaffected. An animal subjected to active oxidation while the conditions for equalisation of heat are imperfect will suffer, from increment of heat, and may die. In Surgical procedures, in Surgical operations, the production of increment of heat is equally simple. There existed in' the animal before operation a given structure, through which, while that structure was in connexion with aU the body, there was distributed from the combustion of so much blood a certain amount or degree of force. The Surgeon severs this structure from the rest of the body, and thereby limits, in proportion as he removes in some cases, the distribution of force derived from the main source. But observe, he but temporarily interferes with the develop- ment of force in the body as a whole, and so when the imme- diate depressing effect of the operation is over, when the organic mechanism swings round, to speak in common lan- guage, and rights itself, then, the active combustion restored, there will be resistance in the organism, because so much Hving tructure has been severed, and if there be not equalisation