9 The nature of the operation in respect to the part operated upon is of moment in relation to increment of heat. Some structures are interfered with with much more danger than other parts, and three structures I notice specially in this re- gard—the brain, the peritoneum, and, in the male, the testes. Let us, then, keep this point fairly before us—that there will be increment of heat from resistance. Surgical fever, whenever an operation performed on the hving body shall cause sufficient destruction of part to interfere with the distribution of heat, provided always that there be no compensating process set on foot to meet the difficulty. HappUy there are certain modes of compensation which, in the majority of operations, do meet the difficulty and the in- evitable danger of death. In the first place, there is direct radiation of heat from the body ; then there is evaporation of water as vapour; next there is the quickened movement of pulse and of respiratory muscle, which we call a symptom of fever, but which, in truth i.s iit the end a process of cooling; and, lastly, there is arrest of appetite for food, and the almost complete voluntary abstinence from food. These are the equalising processes. Carried to theii' ultimate perfection, they restore equilibriiun, and there is recovery. Unhappily there is one process of cooUng down from fever heat, in acute inflammation, which is in itself fatal—that is, a process of cooling from arrest of the current of the blood on the right side of the heart. I have described this sudden decUne of temperature many times, but I cannot notice it too often ; I have diagnosed from it many times with a cer- tainty that has seemed singular, but it is a so certain and simple a diagnosis, that, when it is known, he who runs may read it. The safe processes by which the increment of animal heat is lowered, prevail, fortunately, in the majority of cases. In this country I should judge that, in from eighty-five to ninety per cent, of Surgical operations, there is reduction of fever from compensation, with recovery, and, as there is no country where Surgical art is so bold, and so skUled as it is in this, it will be quite fair to consider that our results are a just average', at A 3"