3 My present thesis is to this effect, that there are certain particular conditions, simple atmospheric conditions, which are favourable to the success of Surgical operation: others which are unfavourable : and that these conditions, favourable and unfavourable, admit of being recognised by the means we have now at command in science. Certain classes of Surgical operation come definitely, I think, under this rule ; others are excluded from it. We may exclude minor operations, such as extraction of teeth, all subcutaneous operations, and, in fine, every operation which in an overwhelm- ing majority of cases is unattended with risk to Ufa. Again, we may exclude those larger and dangerous operations which are demanded by accident, and which, at all risks, must be performed in the attempt to ward off threatening death. We may j'wclude, on the other hand, all Surgical operations in which the resistance, excited by the operation, to the continuance of animal motion is hazardous, and in which, at the same time, there is no such immediate demand for the performance of the operation as shall force the Surgeon to proceed when the con- ditions surrounding the patient are opposed to success. These operations constitute the larger part of capital Surgical practice, and the reduction of fatality from them would effect virtually the whole success of Surgery in a nation where every Surgeon practised with a determination to act only under conditions favourable to success, except in emergency. In seeking out the conditions favourable and unfavourable to Surgical practice, we are bound first to look upon the nature of death after operation. As a rule, an operation may be con- sidered successfvd, in so far as it is itseK concerned, if the patient recover from the direct effects of it within ten days after the operation. Indeed, with respect to some of the most extreme operations, such as ovariotomy, the absolute danger of death from the operation may be considered practically as over at the end of one hundred and forty hours. There may be exceptions to this rule, but they need not disturb us. Neither need we be disturbed by the secondary results of operation, such as recurrence of cancer or other growth. We need only consider what it is which kills as the direct result of Surgical interference.