22101425409Med K9060Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28054957l\)t .roeto cooKcrv tbooKs III rhe Pudding and Pastry BookTHE NEW COOKERY BOOKS. By ELIZABETH DOUGLAS. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, Cover designed, 2s. each. I. THE SOUP AND SAUCE BOOK. II. THE CAKE AND BISCUIT BOOK. III. THE PUDDING AND PASTRV BOOKThe Pudding and Pastry Book By Elizabeth Douglas London Grant Richards 48 Leicester Square■) ill (-22. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. dsr D73p i 1Preface The following pages naturally contain only a brief selection from the thousands of sweets which exist; they have been chosen with an eye to dainty quality, and to simplicity, and every receipt has been tested. Three words concerning sweets: French white fire-proof dishes are better for baking puddings than the ordinary English culinary utensils ; small cups or glasses are more charming receptacles for jellies, creams and custards than large dishes ; and the magic properties of salt (even in the prepara- tion of sweets) cannot be too much insisted upon, the deprecatory English cook to the contrary. E.* D.vii Table of Contents PAGES General Directions 1-5 Milk Puddings . 7-12 Boiled Custards 15-17 Baked Custards 20-24 Fruit Dishes 26-34 Pancakes 37-39 Fritters . 41-47 Omelets .... 49-52 Baked Souffles . 55-58 Souffle Puddings 61-64 Hot Puddings . 66-77 Sauces .... 80-87 Jellies .... 89-96 Creams .... 97-108 Cold Puddings . 110-121 Pastry . 123-127Contents Open Tarts and Tartlets PAGES . 129-134 American Pies .... . 137-141 Cream Ices .... . 142-149 Water Ices .... . 151-155 Iced Puddings, Mousses, Parfaits, etc. . 157-162 Sugars ..... . 164-165 vmA 1 General Directions Measuring.—Flour, sugar, salt, ground spices, should always be sifted before measuring. A cup is a breakfast-cup holding half a pint. The spoons are the silver ones in general use. A spoonful of dry material is one in which the convexity at the top corresponds to the concavity of the spoon. A scant spoonful should be made level with the edges of the spoon. In measuring half a tea-spoon of dry material, fill it first, and then divide it with a knife the length of the spoon. It is necessary to remember in measuring half or quarter cups that a cup is smaller at the bottom than the top. It is most satisfactory to have half- pint measures which are marked into quarters. Table of Measures 4 cups flour = I quart or 1 lb. 2 cups of butter (solid) = 1 lb. 24 cups powdered sugar = 1 lb. 1 cup = 2 pint 1 glass = \ pint 1 pint milk or water = 1 lb. 9 large eggs = 1 lb. 1 table-spoon butter = 1 oz. 1 heaping table-spoon butter = 2 ozs. Butter the size of an egg = 2 ozs.The Pudding and 2 To clean currants.—Sprinkle the currants with Hour, put them on a coarse sieve, and rub them until the stems and grit are separated and go through the sieve. Then wash thoroughly in water, changing it until clear. Drain on a towel and pick over. Dry, if the weather permits, in the sun, not in an oven. To stone raisins.—Pour boiling water over the raisins, and let them stand in it for ten minutes. Drain and rub each raisin between finger and thumb till the seeds come out. Cut open or chop. Sultanas.—Pick over sultanas carefully, remov- ing the little stems. To chop suet.—Sprinkle the suet with flour. Chop in a cold place, removing all membrane carefully. To boil puddings.—Pour the pudding mixture into a well-buttered basin, leaving room for it to swell or rise. Take a perfectly clean cloth, dip it in boiling water, and flour plentifully inside where it covers the pudding. Tie it up tightly round the basin. Stand in boiling water. Do not let the water stop boiling for an instant until the pudding is done. If it boils away, renew with fresh boiling water.Pastry Book 3 To steam puddings.—Cover the basin (which should be buttered) with buttered paper. Set in a covered steamer over boiling water. Keep the water boiling hard. Bain-marie.—Bain-maries can be bought, but a saucepan placed upon a trivet in a larger sauce- pan containing hot water docs equally well. Gelatine.—Gelatine should always be soaked in cold water for one or two hours before using. Then it should be dissolved in a very little hot water, unless otherwise specified, and strained. The greatest care must be taken in adding liquid gelatine to a cold mixture, as it so quickly solidifies. Strain it first, and then very gradually add it to the mixture, beating hard all the time. To whip cream.—Whip cream in as cold a place as possible. It will whip easiest if it has been kept on ice for two or three hours. While whipping, remove the froth as it comes on to a sieve to drain. The liquid cream which drains off can be returned to the basin and whipped again. Sugar, can be added before or after whipping. The cream will be lighter if the sugar is whipped with it. To melt chocolate.—Put the chocolate in a saucepan on the oven when the heat is very moderate. Watch that it does not burn.The Pudding and 4 Meringue for puddings.—To make a meringue to cover a pudding, beat several whites of egg until frothy but not stiff. Then add the sugar gradually in the proportion of one table-spoon of powdered sugar to each white. Beat till stiff. Spread over the pudding when it is cool. Put in a moderate oven, and take out as soon as the meringue has risen, and is delicately browned. Serve quickly. To blanch almonds.—Put the almonds into boiling water and let them soak in it until the skins rub off easily between the finger and thumb. Drain and spread out to dry. To pound almonds.—After blanching let them soak for an hour in cold water, then pound in a good sized mortar until reduced to a soft pulp. Whilst pounding add a few drops of orange-flower water or lemon juice. Mixing.—There are three ways of mixing. Stirring, Beating, Cutting (or Folding). To stir.—Let the spoon touch the bottom and sides of the basin, and move it round quickly in circles of various sizes. Do not lift it out of the mixture, and work well against the sides. To beat.—Tip the bowl to one side. Bring the spoon or fork quickly down into the mixture and through it, take it out the other side andPastry Book bring it over and down again, scraping the sides well eaeli time it goes in. It is important to keep the bowl of the spoon well scraped out during mixing. To cut or fold.—Turn over the mixture with a spoon, lift it up, folding in the white of egg as lightly as possible. Do not stir or beat but mix very gently until quite blended. To beat butter.—Butter which is to be beaten should not be melted; but it can be softened by being kept for a while in a warm place. To all sweets, with a few exceptions such as jellies, creams and fruit dishes, salt should be added. It must be used carefully, since the quantity required will necessarily vary. Salt is of the highest importance in bringing out the full flavour of the ingredients used. It can be added to flour or milk, or when the whites of eggs arc used it will serve a double purpose if added to them, as it makes them much easier to beat up.Milk Puddings PAGE Apple T&pioca Pudding .... 7 Bread and Butter Pudding ... 7 Bread Pudding ..... 8 Gateau de Biz ..... 0 Rice Cream ...... 1) Rice Pudding . . . . .10 ,, „ with Raisins . . .10 Rice Soufile . . . . .11 Tapioca Pudding—I. . . . .11 G7 Apple Tapioca Pudding 1 teacup tapioca pints warm water 6 apples 1 lemon 1 tea-spoon butter 1 cup milk 1 cup powdered sugar Soak the tapioca in the water. Add to it the butter, melted, a little salt, half the sugar and the milk. Peel and core six sour apples, tilling them with the rest of the sugar with which the juice of half a lemon and the grated peel of a whole lemon have been mixed. Put the apples into a deep pudding-dish. Pour the tapioca and milk round them. Bake an hour. This pudding may be made with plums, goose- berries or currants; they should be well sweetened. Bread and Butter Pudding Bread Butter Sultanas Powdered cinnamon 3 eggs 1 pint milk 3 table-spoons powdered sugar Cut a number of slices of bread, taking off the crusts and spreading them with butter. Butter a pudding-dish and fill it three parts full with theThe Pudding and 8 slices of bread and butter, sprinkling a little powdered cinnamon and a few sultanas between each layer. Beat the sugar and eggs together. Add the milk and flavouring. Strain. Pour slowly on the bread, letting it absorb all it can. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour. A good variation of this pudding is made by spreading each layer of bread and butter with jam. *Bread Pudding U cups powdered sugar 2 cups bread-crumbs 1 quart milk 5 eggs 1 table-si30on butter Vanil la Put the bread-crumbs, which should be very fine, to soak in the milk. Mix the butter and one cup of sugar. Add the well-beaten yolks, and beat well together. Add bread-crumbs and milk and a little vanilla. Butter a pudding-dish and All it not more than two-thirds full. Bake in a moderate oven until set. Spread quickly with jelly or jam and cover with the whites beaten to a froth and mixed with half a cup of sugar. Put back in the oven to brown quickly. Serve cold with cream. This pudding can be made with crushed and sweetened fresh strawberries instead of jam.Pastry Book 9 Gateau de Riz 5 table-spoons rice 5 cup powdered sugar 1 quart milk G eggs Lemon peel 1 bay leaf Boil the rice and sugar in the milk, with a thin strip of lemon peel and the bay leaf, very gently until all the milk is absorbed. When cold, add four whole eggs and two extra yolks previously well beaten, and two whites beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all well together. Butter a mould, and sprinkle very fine bread-crumbs all over it. Pour in the rice and bake for half-an- hour in a quick oven. A small cup of strong coffee can be added while the rice is being cooked, or a handful of candied cherries after the eggs have been added. Rice Cream 1 tea-cup rice l-j pints milk or 1 pint milk and h pint cream I, cup powdered sugar 3 tea-spoon vanilla Boil the rice in the milk (with a very little salt) until it is soft and thick and all the milk is absorbed. Add the sugar when partly cooked,The Pudding and 10 and stir in the vanilla when the rice is done. Pour into small moulds or cups. Leave till the following day. Serve cold with custard, cream or cold fruit sauce. 'Plain Rice Pudding i cup l ice 3 cup brown sugar 1 quart milk A little salt Let the rice soak for half-an-hour in the milk. Add the sugar. Bake over two hours in a moderate oven. Rice Pudding with Apples or Raisins 3 table-spoons rice 1 quart milk 3 table-spoons brown sugar Salt 3 sour apples Or 1 cup raisins or sultanas Soak the rice in the milk for an hour. Add a little salt, the sugar, the apples pared and cut into eighths, or the stoned raisins or sultanas. Butter a deep pudding-dish and fill it, covering it with a plate. Bake very slowly for four hours.Pastry Book 11 "Rice Souffle | cup rice 1 pint milk 6 eggs G table-spoons powdered sugar 1 table-spoon butter \ tea-spoon vanilla Cook the rice for twenty minutes in a large sauce-pan of salted boiling water. Drain it and cook it in the milk in a double-boiler for ten minutes. Beat the yolks until light and creamy. Add the sugar and softened butter. Stir the eggs, etc. into the rice and cook for live minutes, but do not allow it to boil. Let it get cold. Beat well together, add the vanilla, and lightly stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a buttered mould for half-an-hour. Serve with a sauce. Tapioca Pudding—I 5 table-spoons tapioca 1 quart milk 1 table-spoon butter | cup brown sugar (3 eggs) Soak the tapioca over night, or if this has not been done, let it simmer for half-an-hour in water. Drain and add the milk, sugar, meltedThe Pudding Book butter and a little salt. Butter a dish and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Three eggs and a little vanilla can be added. They should be thoroughly well beaten and stirred into the milk. * Tapioca Pudding—II 1 breakfast-cup tapioca 5 eggs 1 quart milk 1 cup powdered sugar i tea-spoon vanilla Cover the tapioca with water and soak all night. Then boil it till tender. Make a custard (see p. 15) of the five yolks, sugar and milk. Drain the tapioca. Put it into a large basin, adding a very little salt. Pour the custard over it and beat well together, adding the vanilla. Whip the whites to a firm froth. Stir them lightly in. Butter a pudding-dish and pour in the mixture. Set it in a pan of boiling water in a very moderate oven. Cover it with a dish. Bake until the custard becomes thick and a little set (it must not be as firm as a baked custard). Brown with a salamander or set in a hot oven for a few minutes.Boiled Custards 1.3 PAGE Plain Custard . . . • .15 Caramel Custard . . . . .15 Chestnut Custard . . . . .16 Chocolate Custard . . . .16 Coffee Custard . . . . .16 Tapioca Custard . . . . .17General Directions 14 In making custards it is of the utmost im- portance that they should not be allowed to boil. They are best made in a porcelain double - boiler or in a bain-marie (see p. 15). Cooked white of egg may be added as a garnish to any custard. To prepare it, beat the whites to a stiff froth, and either put it on a sieve and steam it; or drop a tablespoonful at a time into boiling milk, removing it with a skimmer as soon as firm. Whipped cream or ratafias may also be used.15 Plain Custard 1 pint milk 3 or 4 yolks of eggs 3 tablespoons powdered sugar 5 teaspoon vanilla Beat the yolks in a good sized basin until light ' and creamy. Add the sugar and a very little salt. Scald the milk and pour it gradually over the yolks, stirring constantly whilst doing so. Pour the custard back into a double-boiler in the outer part of which is very hot water. Stir continually until the custard thickens. When it is thick enough it will coat the spoon. It must not boil or the custard will curdle. Strain at once into a jug. Add the flavouring when cool. Caramel Custard Melt three table-spoons of powdered sugar in a saucepan and stir it over a quick fire until it is a rich brown, being very careful that it docs not burn. Pour this into a basin and beat it well with three or four yolks of eggs. Proceed as for plain custard (see above).The Pudding and ‘Chestnut Custard ] lh. chestnuts 4 eggs 4 ozs. powdered sugar 1 pint milk or cream ^ tea-spoon vanilla Boil, peel and pound the chestnuts. Add the well beaten yolks, a little salt and the sugar. Beat well together. Add the milk or cream. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them gradually, stirring continually. When well mixed, pour into a double boiler and stir until the custard thickens. Add the vanilla when the custard is cool. 'Chocolate Custard Add to one pint of milk three table-spoons of grated chocolate. Boil until the chocolate is melted. Proceed as for plain custard (see p. 15). When cold stir in a gill of rich cream. Serve very cold. *Coffee Custard To a pint of plain custard (see p. 15) add a coffee cup of strong, good coffee, and an extra table-spoon of powdered sugar. Omit the vanilla. 1GPastry Book B 17 "Tapioca Custard 2 table-spoons tapioca 1 pint milk 2 eggs 5 cup powdered sugar i tea-spoon vanilla Soak the tapioca for two hours in hot water in a double-boiler. Drain. Put back and add the milk. Cook until tender and clear. Carefully mix with the tapioca the two yolks beaten well, the sugar and a little salt. Cook until the custard thickens. Take off the fire and stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. When cool add the vanilla. Serve very cold.Baked Custards 18 Baked Custard (plain) Caramel Custard . Chocolate Custard . Cocoanut Custard . Coffee Custard Crime Brftlee Creme Kenversee . Lemon Custard PAGE 20 20 21 22 22 22 23 24General Directions 19 The milk for baked custards should always be boiled. It is of the greatest importance in baking custards to have a slow oven. It is a good thing to leave the oven door a little open for a short time. It is best, although not necessary, to stand the dish of custard in another containing hot water. The water should simmer. Custards can also be cooked by placing them in a large saucepan containing hot water, which should reach half-way up the mould or cups used. The water should be brought to a boil. Then the saucepan should be set back where it will simmer gently, and it should be covered. This method takes about an hour. It is best to let the custard stay in the water until it is cold.20 Baked Custard (plain) 6 yolks 2 whites 6 table-spoons powdered sugar 1 quart milk Scald the milk. Beat the yolks and two whites together until light and creamy. Add the sugar to them and a little salt. Beat again. Pour the scalded milk over them slowly, stirring all the time. Strain into a buttered pudding-dish or into small cups. Sprinkle with nutmeg. Bake in a slow oven for forty minutes. C ar a m e 1 C u s t a r d | cup sugar 1 quart milk 8 yolks 2 whites 1 tea-spoon vanilla Melt the sugar with a very little water in an iron saucepan. Stir it over a quick lire until it is a rich brown, being very careful that it does not burn. Beat the yolks and whites till light. ScaldPastry Book 21 the milk. Add the sugar to it and pour slowly on the eggs, stirring continually. Add vanilla and a little salt. Strain into dish. Set the dish containing custard inside another vessel in which there is hot water and bake in a very slow oven for an hour. This custard is best the day after it is made. It should be set but creamy, and not as stiff as the ordinary plain, baked custard. Chocolate Custard 1 quart milk G yolks 1 cup powdered sugar 3 ozs. grated chocolate 1 tea-spoon vanilla Add the chocolate to the milk and boil until it is thoroughly dissolved. Beat the yolks thoroughly. Add the sugar to them and beat again. Pour the boiling milk and chocolate over the yolks and sugar, stirring continually. Add the vanilla and strain into a pudding-dish. Bake in a very slow oven for forty-five minutes to an hour. Serve very cold.The Pudding and 22 "Cocoanut Custard h lb. grated fresh cocoanut | lb. powdered sugar 1 table-spoon rose-water Milk .j pint cream £ tea-spoon powdered cinnamon 2 yolks 4 whites If there is not half a pint of coeoannt milk, add to it cold milk until there is that amount. Into this stir the sugar and rose-water. Stir in the cream and well-beaten yolks. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth, and add them alternately with the grated cocoanut and cinnamon. Bake in cups set in hot water in a moderate oven. Coffee Custard Make as for chocolate custard, flavouring with a coffee-cup of good strong coffee instead of chocolate, and adding another yolk. "Creme Brulee 1 pint cream 4 yolks Scald the cream. Pour it slowly over the well- beaten yolks. Put the cream in a double-boiler and stir until it thickens, but do not let it boil. Pour into a shallow dish.Pastry Book 23 When it is cold sift powdered sugar thickly over it. Set in a very slow oven for quarter of an hour. Take it out. Brown the sugar with a salamander. Serve cold. "Creme Renversee If pints milk 6 yolks 3 whites 6 table-spoons powdered sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla Beat the yolks and whites together. Add the sugar. Beat again. Pour the scalded milk gently over the eggs, stirring continually. Add the vanilla and a little salt. Melt a quarter of a pound of sugar in an iron sauce-pan; stir it over a quick fire until it is a rich brown. Plunge a mould into boiling water and drain it quickly. Pour part of the prepared sugar into it at once, coating the sides evenly with it. Strain the custard immediately into the mould. Cover Avith a plate and set in a pan of boiling water in a moderate oven. Bake until quite firm. This can be tested with a knife, which should come out clean if the custard is done. When the custard is cold, turn it carefully out of the mould and pour round it the rest of the syrup, with which a little hot water should have been mixed.The Pudding Book 24 Lemon Custard 6 eggs 2 lemons 4 lb. powdered sugar I wine-glass brandy 1 stale sponge cake 1 pint milk or cream 2 ozs. butter Into a basin put the yolks of the eggs. Beat them well. Add three whites, the rinds of the lemons grated fine and the juice of one lemon. Beat well again. Add the sugar, brandy, and sponge cake finely crushed. Beat all together thoroughly. Add the cream and the butter, pre- viously softened, but not melted. Bake in small moulds in a quick oven for half-an-hour.25 Fruit Dishes Baked Apples—I. » ,, II. Baked Bananas . Flaming Peaches Grated Pine Apple Miroton . Rum Tutti Frutti Stewed Fruit » Apples . » Figs „ Peaches . „ Pears—I. „ „ II. » » (White) „ Prunes Strawberries and Cream Fruit Salads Orange Salad „ and Cocoanut Salad Pine Apple Salad PACK 2G 2G 2G 27 27 27 28 28 29 30 30 31 31 32 32 33 33 34 34 3426 Baked Apples—I Peel and core several good cooking apples. Butter on both sides as many small slices of bread as you have apples. Fill the centre of each apple with butter. Sprinkle thickly with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. Baste five or six times with the juice and butter, adding more butter if necessary. Serve hot, having filled the centre of each apple with jelly. Baked Apples—II Peel and core several good cooking apples, and fill the hollow centres with lemon sugar (see p. 164). Put a little water in the bottom of a shallow tin. Set the apples in it close together. Bake in a quick oven, basting often with the syrup formed by the water and sugar. Baked Bananas Skin several bananas and cut them lengthways in half. Place on a tin. Sprinkle well with sugar, and put several small lumps of butter on them. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven, basting occasionally and adding a very little hot water if there is not sufficient juice with which to baste.Pastry Book 27 Flaming Peaches Peel several peaches, which should not be too ripe. Let them simmer for five minutes in sweetened boiling water. Take them out and drain them. Sprinkle with sugar. Pour sufficient lighted kirsch-wasser over the peaches. The peaches must be kept very hot. Grated Pine-Apple Grate some pine-apple coarsely. To each pound of fruit add one pound of sugar. Put into a large jar and stir occasionally. After twenty- four hours put into glass jars and cover. This will keep for months. Miroton 4 pears 1 table-spoon flour 1 table-spoon butter 1 wine-glass white wine Powdered sugar Pare and core the pears. Cut into quarters, let them simmer for half an hour in a little water and sugar. Melt the butter in a sauce-pan. Add the flour. Work till perfectly smooth. AddThe Pudding and 28 the wine, and when hot, the pears and juice. Simmer again for half an hour. Lay the pears on rounds of fried bread. Strain the juice over them and serve hot. *Rum Tutti Frutti Put one quart of rum and three pounds powdered sugar in a large jar which lias an air-tight cover or cork. Leave for a week. Stir well. Put into the jar three pounds of straw- berries and three pounds more sugar. Stir occasionally. After another week add three pounds raspberries and three pounds sugar. Stir every day. Again, after an interval, add apricots, peaches, plums, etc., always with an equal quantity of sugar. The jar must be kept air-tight and should be kept in a cool dry place. When it is full, put it away for several weeks. Then mix thoroughly and serve with whipped cream. Stewed Fruit Fruit should be stewed in plenty of wcll- swcctcncd water until tender, care being taken to keep it whole. When tender remove thePastry Book 29 fruit from the saucepan. Place it in the dish in which it is to be served. To the juice add a little thin lemon peel, a few drops of lemon juice, more sugar if required, and, if liked, a glass of white wine. Set again on a quick lire and reduce until thick. Strain this over the fruit and serve when cold. Stewed App1 es Peel and take out the core of several sound good cooking apples, putting each when finished in water into which the juice of a lemon has been squeezed. When they are all prepared arrange them in a saucepan, covering them with water and adding sugar to sweeten thoroughly. Cook quickly for about twenty minutes, taking care to keep them whole. Lift out the apples. Place them on a glass dish. Add a little lemon juice to the apple juice, more sugar if necessary, a few drops of cochineal (and, if possible, the rind of a pine-apple). Boil quickly until considerably reduced—and quite thick. Pour over the apples. Decorate each apple with a little red currant jelly.The Pudding and 30 *Stewed Figs 1 lb. dried figs 1 pint water 4 ozs. powdered sugar 1 lemon 1 wine-glass sherry Put the figs, water, sugar and finely-pared lemon peel into an enamelled saucepan. Stew gently until very tender. This will take from two to three hours. Take out the figs and place them in a dish. Stir into the juice the sherry and juice of a lemon. Strain over the fruit and serve cold. Stewed Peaches 6 peaches 5 ozs. powdered sugar ^ pint cold water 1 table-spoon kirsch Throw the peaches into boiling water to blanch. Take out and peel. Cut into quarters, removing the stones. Put into cold water. Add the sugar. Boil for five minutes, being careful not to break the fruit. Set the fruit in a dish. Add the kirsch to the juice. Strain on to the fruit.Pastry Book 31 Stewed Pears—1 Pare, core and cut in half a number of good large cooking pears, and put them into cold water in which there is the juice of a lemon. Prick them in several places. Make a syrup in the pro- portion of one cup of sugar to one cup of water. Boil up and skim. When cool pour it into an earthenware jar. Put the pears into the syrup. Add two cloves. Cover the jar tightly. Set in a very slow oven and leave for five or six hours. This is the best way of cooking pears: but it is essential that the oven should be slow all the time. Stewed Pears—II 6 pears t lb. sugar 1 wine-glass red wine 2 cloves Rind of a lemon thinly pared Pare and cut the pears in half. Take out the cores. Put in a saucepan. Cover with water. Add the sugar, wine, cloves and lemon rind. Simmer as slowly as possible. Arrange in a dish. Add a few drops of cochineal to the juice. Strain it over the pears.The Pudding and 32 Stewed Pears (White) (Old French Receipt) Put several unpeeled pears into boiling water. Cook for several minutes. Take out and throw into cold water. Peel when cold and divide in two. Put back into fresh cold water. To a gill of water add sufficient sugar to make a sweet syrup. Boil and skim. When clear, add the pears and a slice of lemon. Simmer until tender. Remove the lemon and serve cold. Stewed Prunes 1 lb. prunes 1 pint water ) lb. sugar 1 lemon Peel the lemon very finely. Put the peel, water, sugar and prunes in a stew-pan. Simmer gently until very tender. Put the prunes in a glass dish. Add the juice of the lemon to the syrup. Reduce it until thick. Strain over the prunes. This is best prepared the day before it is required.Pastry Book c 33 Strawberries and Cream Pick over a number of fine strawberries. Put a layer of them in a glass dish. Sprinkle sugar over them. Add one or two more layers and sprinkle each with sugar. Set aside for about an hour. Whip half a pint of cream with the white of two eggs and two ozs. powdered sugar until very frothy. Let it stand a few minutes. Remove all the froth to a sieve to drain, and whip up the liquid cream remaining. When that is frothy, drain it on a sieve as before. Keep the cream in a cold place till it is required, piling it on the strawberries when ready to serve. Fruit Salad Take tinned or fresh pine-apple, peaches, apricots and fresh strawberries, cherries, bananas, oranges, according to season. Cut the large fruit into small pieces. Put all into a large bowl. Make a syrup (see p. 151) of sugar and water, or, if tinned pears and pine apples have been used, of their juice and sugar. Pour it over the fruit while warm. Let it stand a little while. Place on the dish in which it is to be served. Decorate with grapes or crystallised sugar,The Pudding Book 34 Orange Salad Peel a number of oranges, scraping off all the white inner skin with a sharp knife. Cut across in slices, removing all the core and seeds. Put a layer of orange in a dish. Sprinkle thickly with sugar and a little rum. Add two or three more layers of orange and sugar. Serve at once, as the orange quickly becomes bitter. Orange and Cocoanut Salad Peel six oranges. Scrape off the inner white skin carefully. Slice them, removing the core and seeds. Grate half a cocoanut. Put alternate layers of orange and cocoanut in a dish. The top layer should be cocoanut. Sprinkle each layer with sugar. Serve as soon as possible after making. Pine Apple Salad 1 pine apple 4 pint syrup 1 table-spoon cura^oa Peel the pine apple and grate it. Mix the curacoa with the syrup (see p. 151). Pour over the fruit.35 Pancakes pag a Pancakes—I. . 37 „ II. • 37 „ with Jam 38 „ French . 38 Rice Pancakes . 39General Directions To fry pancakes, melt a piece of fresh butter in a small frying-pan. When it is very hot pour in sufficient batter to cover the frying-pan with a thin layer. Fry over a clear fire, shaking the pan constantly. Loosen the edges of the pancake, when set, with a knife. Give a good shake and toss, bringing the pancake down on the other side. As each is done, put it on a very hot plate in the oven and continue frying the others as quickly as possible.37 Pancakes—I (French Receipt) 4 eggs i lb. sifted flour 1 pint milk 1 table-spoon olive oil 1 table-spoon brandy, rum, absinthe or kirscli Salt. Beat the eggs. Add the milk, flour, etc., mixing well together until perfectly smooth. Set aside for three hours. When ready to fry, add to the batter one white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Fry in butter. Pancakes—II (American) 5 table-spoons flour 7 eggs 1 pint cream or milk Sift the flour with a tea-spoon of salt. Mix it smoothly with the cream. Beat up the yolks and add them, mixing thoroughly. Beat four whites to a stiff froth and stir them lightly in. Fry in very hot butter. Serve with sugar and cinnamon or lemon.The Pudding and 38 Pancakes with Jam \ lb. flour 1 table-spoon sugar j lb. melted butter 5 eggs If pints milk First mix the sugar, flour and unbeaten eggs. Add the butter, milk and a little salt. Fry in butter in a small frying-pan, two table-spoons at a time. As soon as a pancake is done on one side, lay it on a dish and spread it with apricot or strawberry jam. Cover it with another, and so on. Sprinkle the top pancake with sugar and glaze with a salamander. Serve very hot. ^French Pancakes 2 eggs 2 ozs. powdered sugar 2 ozs. flour 2 ozs. butter ^ pint milk Beat the butter to a cream. Add the well- beaten eggs, and beat together. Stir in the sugar, flour, and lastly the milk, beating all the time. Bake in six well-buttered saucers in a quick oven about twenty minutes. Fold each pancake over. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve with lemon.Pastry Book 39 Rice Pancakes r lb. rice | pint cream or milk 1 table-spoon powdered sugar 4 eggs 2 ozs. butter Flour Boil the rice in water until very tender. Pound it and put it through a sieve. When cold add the cream or milk, sugar, well-beaten eggs and butter, which should be warmed and creamed. Add Hour, if necessary, to make a fairly stiff batter. Fry in butter.40 Fritters PAGE Fruit Fritters . . . . .43 Henriettes ...... 44 Orange Fritters ..... 44 Pine Apple Fritters . . . .45 Portuguese Fritters . . . .45 Souffle Fritters . . . . .46 Strawberry Fritters . . . .47General Directions 41 Fritters are crisper if fried in clarified fat than in lard. In making fruit fritters dip each piece of fruit into batter. See that it is well covered. Drop fritters, a few at a time, into smoking hot fat, being careful that they do not touch each other; fry a rich yellow. Take out with a skimmer and set in the oven for a few minutes on soft paper to drain. Sift sugar over the fritters and serve with a wine or fruit sauce.42 Batter for Fritters—I (.French Receipt) 2 eggs | lb. flour 1 table-spoon olive oil 1 table-spoon brandy *2 cup water, milk or beer Mix the flour and water, milk or beer, perfectly smooth. Add the well-beaten volks, the oil and brandy (which is optional) and a little salt. Mix well and set aside for two or three hours. When the batter is wanted, beat the whites until stiff and dry and add them. i/ Batter for Fritters—II 9 ozs. flour 1 table-spoon powdered sugar 4 eggs 8 table-spoons butter (melted) I, cup white wine 2 table-spoons brandy Mix the flour, sugar and well-beaten yolks together. Beat until smooth, adding a little salt. Stir in the melted butter, white wine and brandy, and, just before using, the whites beaten until they arc stiff and dry.Pastry Book 43 Fruit Fritters Fritters may be made of apples, bananas, oranges, apricots, pine-apple, peaches, etc. The fruit should be ripe and perfect. Cut apples across in slices about a third of an inch thick. Take out the core from the centre of each piece. Cut each slice of pine-apple into four pieces. Slice bananas lengthwise, cutting each slice in half if too long. Cut peaches and apricots in quarters. All fruit for fritters is best soaked for a couple of hours in well-sweetened brandy, rum or kirsch, to which a little ground cinnamon and the finely grated peel and the juice of a lemon have been added. The fruit must be well drained before it is dipped in batter. When this is not done each piece of fruit should be sprinkled with sugar, a very little lemon juice and spice. For frying see general directions.The Pudding and 44 Henriettes i>gg J gill cream Salt 1 salt-spoon baking-powder b tea-spoon vanilla 1 tea-spoon brandy Flour Beat the yolk and white separately. Mix all smoothly together with sufficient flour to roll out. Roll as thin as possible, and cut into squares and ribbons. Fry in boiling lard. Drain and sprinkle with flavoured sugar (see p. 1G4). Orange Fritters Peel and divide several sweet oranges into sections. Scrape off all pith with a sharp knife. Take out the seeds. Drop them into a syrup made of water, sugar and a table-spoon of brandy, and let them simmer for a few minutes. Take out and drain on a sieve. Dip in batter and fry (see p. 41). Put in the oven to drain and sprinkle with orange sugar (see p. 1G4).Pastry Book 45 Pine-Apple Fritters 1 pine-apple (fresh or tinned) 2 cups flour 1 table-spoon melted butter 1 egg Water Pare and grate the pine-apple. To the juice add the flour. Mix perfectly smooth. Add the well-beaten yolk, a little salt and the butter. If fresh pine-apple is used add sufficient water to make the batter thin enough to drop from the end of spoon. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth and stir it in quickly and lightly when ready to fry. Drop into the boiling fat by the table-spoon and fry a golden brown. Drain on paper in the oven and dust with lemon sugar (see p. 164). Portuguese Fritters (Pain Perdu) 1 pint milk 1 yolk 2 table-spoons sugar Bread 2 ozs. butter 1 dessert-spoon orange- flower water Boil the milk with the sugar, grated rind of a lemon, and orange-flower water until it is reduced one half.The Pudding and 46 Cut several slices of bread half an inch thick. Take off the crust and cut the bread into rounds about the size of the top of a tumbler. Dip these in the milk and then in the well-beaten yolk. Fry in butter. Sprinkle with lemon sugar (see p. 164) or put on each one a spoonful of jam. Serve very hot. Souffle Fritters (Beignets Souffles) 1 cup water 2 ozs. butter 4 ozs. flour 1 tea-spoon powdered sugar 6 yolks 3 whites Set the water on the fire. Add the sugar, butter and a little salt. As soon as it boils add the flour all at once. Work it smooth with a wooden spoon, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes. Take off the fire and add the yolks of six eggs, one after the other, beating hard all the time. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth. Add this to the batter stirring it lightly in. Divide into pieces about the size of an egg, sprinkle them with flour and fry them in a very large saucepan of clarified fat, givingPastry Book 47 each fritter room to swell without touching another. The fat should not be too hot at first, but as the fritters swell the heat should be increased. When a good colour take them out, drain them and sprinkle them with sugar. Serve at once very hot. %} Strawberry Fritters Dip whole strawberries into batter No. II. Fry a good colour. Drain. Sprinkle with sugar and glaze with a salamander.Omelets Sweet Omelet—I. II Foam „ Orange „ Rum 50 50 51 51 52 4 8General Directions 49 D A special pan should be kept for omelets. It must be used for nothing else. After being used it is best to scour it with a little salt and vinegar in order to keep a perfectly smooth surface. Melt a tea-spoon of butter in the pan, let it run well over it, bub do not let it burn. Pour in the eggs. Lift the egg mixture at the sides as it cooks so as to let the uncooked part flow under. This must, however, only be done at first or the surface will be roughened. When the egg is firm underneath but still soft on top, fold one side carefully over the other with a knife. Slip gently on a very hot plate. Serve quickly and very hot. Add a little salt to the eggs whilst beating.50 Sweet Omelet—I 3 eggs Powdered sugar Jam Beat the eggs slightly with one table-spoon of powdered sugar. Cook as directed. Before folding over spread with apricot or strawberry jam. Fold. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and score several diagonal lines on the top with a clean red-hot poker or iron. Sweet Omelet—II 3 eggs 2 tablespoons rich cream Powdered sugar Jam Beat the yolks with one table-spoon sugar and the cream until very light and frothy. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Fold them lightly into the yolks. Pour into a pan, and when firm set in the oven a few moments to dry. Fold in half, sprinkle with sugar and score several diagonal lines with a clean red-hot poker.Pastrv Book 51 j Foam Omelet 3 eggs 1 table-spoon powdered sugar Beat the yolks and sugar together. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add half of them to the yolks, folding lightly in. Pour into a pan, and when the mixture is nearly set spread it with the rest of the whites, flavoured with a little vanilla or lemon juice and sweetened. When the whites are thoroughly heated, fold over. Sprinkle with sugar and serve quickly. Orange Omelet 3 eggs Powdered sugar Orange sugar The finely grated rind of one orange 3 table-spoons orange juice Beat the yolks and two table-spoons powdered sugar until creamy and light. Add the juice and rind. Beat again. Fold in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Proceed as for sweet omelet No. II. Sprinkle the omelet thickly with orange sugar (see p. 164).The Pudding Book Rum Omelet 3 eggs Powdered sugar Rum Beat the eggs with one table-spoon sugar. Pour into the pan. Sprinkle well with sugar before folding. Fold. Slip on a very hot dish. Pour lighted rum over the omelet, hasting the omelet with the rum until it is extinguished. Serve tpiickly.53 Baked Souffles Chocolate Souffle . Coffee Souffle Maraschino Souffle Omelette Soufflee . Punch Souffle Souffle Royal Strawberry Souffle. Vanilla SouffleGeneral Directions 54 Souffles should be made in dishes made for the purpose and must be served in the same. The dish should be spread with cold butter, the souffle mixed not a moment before it is time to put it in the oven (which should be moderately hot), and served immediately it is taken out. A souffle is better underdone than overdone. Great care must be taken to whisk in the whites of eggs as quickly and lightly as possible. It is best to tie a piece of buttered paper round the outside of the mould, so that the souffle does not run over. In any case room must be given for it to rise. If there is danger of the souffle burning, cover it with a sheet of greased paper.Pastry Book Chocolate Souffle To the vanilla souffle (see page 58) add 2 ozs. fine powdered chocolate, stirring it into the mixture whilst boiling. Coffee Souffle 2 ozs. roasted whole coffee pints cream or milk 3 ozs. butter 3 ozs. fine flour 3 ozs. powdered sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla 8 eggs Throw the coffee into the boiling cream or milk. Cover closely and set aside for an hour. Strain through fine muslin. Melt the butter in a large enamel saucepan. Add the flour. Mix till perfectly smooth. Add the cream and sugar. Stir together. Set aside to cool. Add the yolks beaten till creamy, and the vanilla. Then whip in the whites, which should be whisked to a firm froth. Bake in a buttered souffle dish in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour.The Pudding and 56 Maraschino Souffle 3 yolks 4 whites 1 table-spoon maraschino 3 table-spoon powdered sugar 3 table-spoons flour 1 pint cream Beat the yolks and sugar for ten minutes. Add the flour. Beat till perfectly smooth. Add the maraschino and cream. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Beat them lightly in. Pour into a souffle dish and bake. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Omelette Soufflce 0 eggs 4 heaped table-spoons powdered sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla Beat the yolks and sugar together for fifteen minutes. Add the flavouring. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Pour the yolks on the whites and whisk them lightly and quickly till mixed. Pour into a buttered tin, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and put in a moderately hot oven. It should take about ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Serve at once.Pastry Book 57 Punch Souffle 1 pint cream (or milk) 2 table-spoons China or green tea 3 ozs. butter 3 ozs. flour 1 glass rum 1 lemon 8 yolks Boil the cream. Add to it the tea. Set it back on the oven and let it stand five minutes closely covered. Strain off the cream. Melt the butter in a saucepan. Add the flour and stir till perfectly smooth. Add the cream. Stir con- tinually for four or five minutes. Pour into a basin. Add the sugar, juice of the lemon, half of the grated rind and the rum. Beat well together until cooler. Gradually add the well- beaten yolks, beating vigorously while doing so. Bake for about three-quarters of an hour. Souffle Royal pint cream 2 table-spoons flour 2 table-spoons powdered sugar 2 table-spoons orange flower water I, cup pounded almonds 6 eggs Mix the well-beaten yolks of six eggs with the rest of the ingredients, beating all together hardThe Pudding and 58 for ten minutes. Add the whites beaten to a firm froth. Mix well and pour into a buttered souffle dish. Serve as soon as the souffld has risen. Pounded macaroons may be used instead of almonds. Strawberry Souffle 1 quart strawberries 8 table-spoons powdered sugar 8 whites of eggs 4 tea-spoon lemon juice Press the berries through a fine sieve into a basin. Add the sugar. Beat until very frothy. Add the lemon juice and the whites whipped to a firm froth. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. Sprinkle with lemon sugar (see p. 1(34). Vanilla Souffle 2 ozs. potato flour (or fine flour) 2 table-spoons powdered sugar 1 tea-cup milk or cream 4 eggs 1 tea-spoon vanilla 2 table-spoons butter Mix the flour, sugar and milk to a per- fectly smooth paste and stir over the fire untilPastry Rook 59 the flour is cooked (the mixture should boil for at least five minutes). Add the butter whilst boiling. Strain and set aside to cool. Beat the yolks till creamy. Beat them together with the milk, etc. Add the flavouring. Beat in the whites, whipped to a stiff froth, very lightly. Bake in buttered souffle dish in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. This souffle may be flavoured with the syrup of preserved ginger, one table-spoon of maras- chino, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, or with orange flower water.Souffle Puddings PAGE Almond Souffle . . . . .62 Chocolate Souffle • 62 j) „ with Almonds . . .63 Cream Souffle 64 Lemon Souffid . . . . .64 CO61 General Directions Do not more than half fill the tin. Tie a piece of buttered paper right round the outside of the tin, letting it project about two inches above the tin. Set the souffle dish in a vessel of simmering water, which should reach half way up the souffle tin and which should boil gently and be replenished from time to time with boiling water. Cook either in a very moderate oven, or on a very gentle fire. The water should only simmer. When cooked, turn the souffles out carefully and serve with cream or wine sauce.62 Almond Souffle 4 ozs. almonds 7 eggs 4 ozs. sugar 1 table-spoon lemon sugar 24 ozs. flour Blanch and pound the almonds with one whole egg. Add the sugar, six yolks, lemon sugar (see p. 164). Beat for quarter of an hour. Sift in the flour lightly, avoiding lumps, and add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a buttered mould and steam about an hour. Chocolate Souffle 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. fine flour 5 pint milk 1 oz. sugar 2 ozs. powdered chocolate 4 eggs £ tea-spoon vanilla Melt the butter in a saucepan. Add the flour. Mix until quite smooth. Add the boiling milkPastry Book 63 gradually and stir together into a smooth paste. Strain through a sieve into a basin. Add the vanilla, sugar and chocolate. Add the well-beaten yolks when the mixture is nearly cold, and then the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Mix thoroughly and pour into a buttered mould. Steam for about an hour and a half. Chocolate Souffle with Almonds 4 ozs. butter 4 ozs. sugar 4 ozs. chocolate 4 ozs. almonds 6 eggs 1 white 2 table-spoons finely chopped candied orange and citron Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar with the white of an egg. Beat the butter to a cream. Beat the yolks thoroughly and add them to the butter, beating till smooth and foamy. Add the sugar, almonds and the melted chocolate. Beat all together ten minutes. Add the chopped peel, and the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a buttered mould and steam for one and a half hours.The Pudding Book 64 Cream Souffle 2 table-spoons fine flour 4 ozs. butter \ pint cream 5 eggs 1^ ozs. sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla or 1 table- spoon maraschino Stir the flour with 2 ozs. of butter over the fire till smooth. Add the cream, and stir continually till it boils. Set aside to cool. Beat the yolks till creamy. Beat the butter to a cream. Beat the butter and volks together with the sugar and vanilla. Mix with the cream. Beat together and beat in three whites whipped to a stiff froth. Pour into a buttered mould. Steam over the fire for three quarters of an hour. Lemon Souffle 1 oz. butter j lb. powdered sugar 1 lemon 1| ozs. flour 5 eggs Beat the yolks till creamy. Mix them with the flour, sugar, warmed butter and grated rind of one lemon, and beat well together. Stir over the fire till the mixture thickens. Set aside in a basin till cool. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Whip them lightly in. Steam in a buttered mould for half an hour.Hot Puddings PAGE Albemarle Pudding . . . .06 Apple and Apricot Charlotte . . .66 Apple Custard . . . . .67 Bread and Bum Pudding . . . .68 Cherry Pudding . . . . .68 Christmas Plum Pudding—I. . . .69 „ „ II. . . . 70 Dutch Apple Cake. . . . .70 Fig Pudding ..... 71 Friar’s Omelet ..... 71 Gooseberry Pudding . . . .72 Ginger Pudding . . . . .72 Italian Mousse . . . . .73 Little Citron Puddings . . . .73 Marmalade Pudding . . . .74 Mousse a la Mangara . . . .74 Palace Pudding . . . . .75 Pine Apple and Bice Mould . . .75 Plum Pudding ..... 76 Strawberry Shortcake . . . .77Albemarle Pudding 4 ozs. butter 4 ozs. powdered sugar 3 eggs 1 lemon | lb. flour Raisins Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar and rind of a lemon. Beat well. Add the well-beaten yolks and flour alternately, beating continually. When quite smooth, add the juice of the lemon, and the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Butter a mould, and line the top of it with raisins. Tour in the mixture, and steam an hour and a half. Serve with a wine sauce. "Apple and Apricot Charlotte G large apples Butter, the size of a walnut Sugar The finely peeled rind of a lemon \ lb. apricot jam Peel and core the apples. Cut in quarters. Stew with the butter, and sufficient sugar to sweeten, until tender, taking care not to let them burn. 60Pastry Book Warm the jam in a saucepan, and put through a sieve. Add to the apples, and stir well together. Line a buttered mould with strips of thin bread which have been dipped in melted butter. Fill in with the apple and apricot mixture. Cover with a round of bread also dipped in butter. Bake about twenty minutes, or until the bread is well coloured. Apple Custard 6 large apples 3 eggs 6 table-spoons powdered sugar 1 pint milk Pare and core the apples. Fill the centre of each with sugar and bake, being careful that they do not break. Or they can be stewed whole. Make a nustard (see p. 15) of the yolks, milk and half the sugar. Pour it over the apples, which should be arranged in a dish. Bake slowlv until the custard is firm. Whip the whites till frothy. Add the rest of the sugar gradually, and beat well together. Spread this over the custard, and put in a moderate oven. Remove directly the meringue is browned. 07The Pudding and 68 "Bread and Rum Pudding 2 wine glasses rum 4 eggs 6 ozs. powdered sugar 6 ozs. bread crumbs 6 ozs. currants \ lb. candied peel 4 ozs. butter 3 table-spoons milk Melt the butter, mix it with the sugar, bread crumbs and yolks. Stir well together. Add the currants, milk, chopped peel and one glass of rum. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in. Put in a buttered mould. Steam three hours. When cooked, pour another glass of rum over the pudding, and serve. "Cherry Pudding 4 eggs 1 pint milk 2 table-spoons of flour Cherries Sugar Stone enough cherries to fill a basin, which must be well buttered. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten well. Make a smooth batter of the well- beaten eggs, flour and milk. Pour it over the cherries, filling the basin. Cover with a cloth, and boil one and a half hours. Serve with a fruit sauce.Pastry Book 69 Christmas Plum Pudding—I lw lb. suet 1 lb. flour ^ lb. bread crumbs 2 lbs. raisins 1 lb. sultanas h lb currants I lb. mixed candied peel h lb. sugar 1 salt-spoon salt Grated rind and juice of three lemons | nutmeg, grated 4 blanched and pounded bitter almonds 1 tea-spoon mixed spice 1 „ ground cinnamon h . „ „ ginger 1 pint brandy or sherry 5 eggs beaten up with | pint milk Orange juice, if liked Chop the suet very fine. Mix the sugar and spices. Add the suet, well-prepared fruit, eggs and brandy. Let the mixture stand until the following day, stirring well at intervals. Put the mixture into well-buttered basins, filling them to within two inches of the top. Cover with buttered paper, and over this tie a well-floured cloth. Boil for eight hours. oThe Pudding and 70 Ch ristmas Plum Pudding—II For each Pudding I lb. raisins j lb. sultanas j lb. currants I lb. orange peel ,[ lb. lemon peel 4 lb. almonds (chopped) j lb. chopped preserved ginger 4 lb. sugar 5 ozs. chopped suet 3 heaped table-spoons flour 5 eggs Spices, brandy or whisky to taste Salt Boil twelve hours. Dutch Apple Cake 1 pint flour ^ tea-spoon carbonate of soda 1 tea-spoon cream of tartar d cup butter 1 egg 1 scant cup milk 4 sour apples 3 table-spoons powdered sugar Mix and sift the dry materials together. Rub in the butter. Beat the egg. Mix it with the milk. Add to the flour and stir well in. Spread the dough half an inch thick in a shallow tin.Pastry Book 71 Pare the apples and core them. Cut them into eighths. Put these in rows, pressing the thin edge down into the dough. Sprinkle the sugar over the apples. Bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. Serve with lemon sauce (see p. 85). Fig Pudding f lb. butter | lb. figs f lb. bread crumbs 2 eggs Chop the figs and stew them in the butter for quarter of an hour. Beat the eggs well. Mix them with the bread crumbs. Add the figs and butter. Steam on a buttered mould three hours. Friar’s Omelet Apples 3 eggs 1 cup sugar Juice of half a lemon Bread crumbs Steam several sour apples. Mash them and then drain them until quite dry. Take one pint of this pulp, and when cool add to it the three well-beaten yolks, the sugar, lemon juice, and the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Brown some very fine bread crumbs in a little butter. Sprinkle the bottom and sides of a well-buttered puddingThe Pudding and 72 dish with them. Pour in the mixture. Cover with bread crumbs. Bake twenty minutes. Serve with brown sugar and cream. 'Gooseberry Pudding 3 cups gooseberries | lb. butter | lb. powdered sugar 8 eggs 4 sponge-fingers Stew the gooseberries in water until tender. Do not let them break. Take them out and drain. Then put them through a fine sieve. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar and beat again. Stir in the gooseberry pulp, the well-beaten eggs and the sponge-fingers finely crushed. Mix well and bake in a pudding dish for thirty minutes. Ginger Pudding tt lb. flour G ozs. suet 1 table-spoon brown sugar 2 table-spoons golden syrup 1 tea-spoon baking powder 2 eggs A little milk Sift the baking powder with the flour. Beat the eggs until creamy. Mix all well together. Steam two and a half hours.Pastry Book 73 "Italian Mousse 12 yolks 4 wine glasses Madeira or light white wine 6 ozs. powdered sugar A pinch of powdered cinnamon A little lemon juice Beat well together. Pour into an enamelled sauce-pan and stand it in a larger vessel contain- ing hot water. Beat continually with a whisk until the mixture froths and rises. Serve im- mediately in glasses. "Little Citron Puddings i pint of cream 1 table-spoon sifted flour 2 ozs. powdered sugar Nutmeg 3 yolks Mix the cream, flour, sugar and a very little nutmeg together until quite smooth. Add the well-beaten yolks. Butter five small tea-cups or moulds and line with very thin pieces of citron. Pour in the mixture, but do not fill quite full. Bake in a fairly quick oven. Turn out the puddings and serve at once.The Pudding and 74 Marmalade Pudding 2 eggs Their weight in flour, butter and powdered sugar 1 table-spoon marmalade 1 tea-spoon baking-powder Sift the flour and baking-powder together. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar and beat again. Add the flour, marmalade and well-beaten yolks. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them last. Pour into a buttered basin and steam for an hour and a half. Turn out and spread with a little marmalade. Serve with a sweet sauce. Mousse a la Mangara £ lb. powdered sugar 6 eggs Wine glass of kirsch Beat the sugar and eggs together until creamy and light. Add the kirsch and stand in a sauce- pan of hot water. Set over a slow fire and stir continually until the mixture thickens. It must not boil. Take off the fire and add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Serve at once.Pastry Book 75 ,— Palace Pudding \ lb. butter j lb. castor sugar 3 eggs tea-spoon vanilla | lb flour Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar and well-beaten eggs. Beat thoroughly. Add the flour. When well mixed add the vanilla. Butter a mould. Sprinkle it with powdered sugar. Steam one hour. Before turning out, let the pudding stand for a minute or two. *Pine-Apple and Rice Mould | lb. rice 1 pint milk 3 eggs. 5 lb. pine-apple Syrup f 11). tinned apricots 2 table-spoons powdered sugar 1 table-spoon kirsch Cook the rice in the milk in a double boiler until it is very tender and the milk is all absorbed.The Pudding and Cut the pine-apple in small pieces and let it simmer for several minutes in a little syrup (see p. 151). Beat three whole eggs well together. Add them to the rice and then the pine-apple. When well mixed pour into a buttered mould. Bake for about half-an-liour. Mash the apricots. Add the sugar. When melted pass through a sieve. Add the kirsch, pour over the pudding. Plum Pudding 4 lb. butter | lb. powdered sugar 1 gill cream 1 gill rum | lb. chopped suet 1 cup chopped raisins 1 cup currants b lb. chopped citron 6 eggs 1 tea-spoon ground spices Bread-crumbs Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the rum and cream. Beat well. Add the suet and well-floured fruit. Beat the eggs together till very light. Add then the spices and sufficient fine bread-crumbs to make a stiff batter. Pour into a buttered mould. Boil five hours. 70Pastry Book 77 ^Strawberry Shortcake \ lb. flour 3 ozs. butter 1 table-spoon sugar 2 tea-spoons baking-powder Milk Strawberries, sugar and butter Sift the flour, sugar and baking-powder to- gether twice. Rub in the butter. Add sufficient milk to make a dough (about three-quarters of a cup), mixing lightly with a knife. Put on a floured board and roll out lightly. Divide in two. Bake in two well-buttered round tins (about eight inches in diameter) in a hot oven for twelve minutes. When baked, split open and spread with plenty of butter and a thick layer of crushed and well-sweetened strawberries. Serve at once very hot. The strawberries should be prepared about half an hour before they are needed.78 Sauces PAG K Banana Sauce ... .80 Chocolate Sauce . . . . .80 Custard Sauce . . . . .81 Foam Sauce . . . . .81 Fruit Sauce . . . . .82 Golden Sauce . . . . .82 Golden Syrup or Molasses Sauce . . 83 Hard Sauce . . . . 83 Hard Sauce with Fruit . . . .84 Jelly Sauce ...... 84 Lemon Sauce . . . . .85 Melted Butter . . . . .85 Sabaillon ...... 86 Whipped Cream Sauce . . . .86 Wine Sauce—I. . . . .87 „ „ IF • ‘ . . . .8779 General Directions All hot pudding sauces should be served as soon as made. Butter may be creamed in a warmed basin but should on no account be melted. Sauces made with yolks of eggs arc best made in a bain marie; i.e. a saucepan placed in a larger pan containing hot water.80 Banana Sauce 1 cup water 4 table-spoons powdered sugar 4 bananas 1 dessert-spoon maraschino or 1 wine-glass of wine Put the water and sugar in a sauce-pan and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add four bananas which have been mashed with a silver fork. Boil for two minutes. Put through a sieve, and add the wine or maraschino. Chocolate Sauce ■k cup water h cup powdered sugar 3 ozs. chocolate Vanilla \ cup scalded cream Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes. Stir in the melted chocolate. Add a little vanilla. Stir in the cream immediately before serving. If the chocolate mixture cannot be served at once, stand it in a pan of hot water until it is needed.Pastry Book f 81 Custard Sauce 5 pint milk (or cream) 2 table-spoons powdered sugar Yolks of 2 eggs Vanilla Boil the milk and sugar together. Beat the yolks thoroughly, and pour the milk over them. Strain and return to the saucepan, stirring until it thickens. Do not let it boil. Add a little vanilla. Foam Sauce l lb. butter 1 cup castor sugar 5- cup boiling water White of 1 egg 1 tea-spoon vanilla 2 table-spoons wine, fruit juice or syrup Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, vanilla and wine. Just before it is served stir in the boiling water. Then add the well-beaten white of an egg, and beat until the sauce is foamy.The Pudding and 82 Fruit Sauce 1 cup juice of fresh or stewed fruit 1 tea-spoon arrowroot tt cup powdered sugar Let the juice boil, add gradually the arrowroot (which must be smoothly mixed with a very little water), and boil for five minutes. Strain. If jam is used, half a cup will be sufficient. It should first be well beaten and then passed through a sieve. Half a cup of water should be added to it, and less sugar will be required. Golden Sauce 4 ozs. butter i cup powdered sugar Yolks of 2 eggs 1 table-spoon boiling water Juice of i a lemon Wine-glass of wine or brandy Beat sugar and butter together until creamy. Put the bowl in hot water and stir until liquid. Add the well-beaten yolks and hot water, and stir until the mixture thickens. Add lemon juice and wine. Beat well together.Pastry Book 83 Golden Syrup or Molasses Sauce 1 cup syrup or molasses Juice of a lemon 1 table-spoon vinegar 1 table-spoon salt butter Boil altogether for ten minutes. This is a o good sauce to serve with plain boiled rice or batter pudding. Hard Sauce 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. castor sugar | tea-spoon vanilla 1 table-spoon brandy Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar gradually. Beat well. Then add the brandy, a very little at a time. Pile the sauce lightly on a dish and keep it on ice until required. This sauce is excellent with plum puddings.The Pudding and 84 Hard Sauce with Fruit 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. powdered sugar i lb. crushed strawberries Whites of 2 eggs Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar gradually, beating hard all the time. Add the strawberries, which have first been crushed. Beat again thoroughly. Add one unbeaten white of egg. Beat well and then add the other white. Beat again thoroughly and stand on ice. i cup of red currant or blackberry jelly The juice of 1 lemon Grated rind of | a lemon 1 heaping table-spoon powdered sugar 2 glasses white wine Beat the jelly till it is quite a light colour. Add the lemon juice and rind to the jelly. Bring almost to the boil. Stir continually. Take off the fire and add the sugar and wine, beating hard. The dish containing this sauce should be covered and must be kept in a basin full of very hot water until served. Give it a good whisk before serving. SaucePastry Book 85 Lemon Sauce Grated rind and juice of a lemon 1 cup powdered sugar 3 tea-spoons cornflour 1 pint hot water Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes. Mix the cornflour in a cup with a little water until it is perfectly smooth, and then add it gradually to the syrup, stirring quickly all the time. Let it all boil again for ten minutes. Add the grated rind and juice of the lemon. Strain. Melted Butter 2 table-spoons butter 2 tea-spoons flour U cups of hot water (or water and milk) 1 cup brown or powdered sugar Flavouring Melt the butter in a saucepan, being careful not to brown it. Add the flour and mix until quite smooth. Then add the hot water (or milk and water) gradually, stirring well all the time, and when it boils add the sugar. Stir continually for five minutes. Remove from the fire and add a small half tea-spoonful of vanilla or a little nutmeg if milk has been used, but two tea-spoon- fuls of fresh lemon juice, if it has been made with water.The Pudding and Sabaillon The yolks of 4 eggs 1| wine-glasses madeira or sherry 4 table-spoons castor sugar A little cinnamon This can be made in two ways. I. Put eggs, wine and sugar into a sauce- pan on a good lire. Beat continually until the mixture thickens. It must not boil. OK, IT. Beat eggs and sugar very thoroughly together for five minutes. Then add the wine. Put into an earthenware pot and stand this in a large saucepan of very hot water. Beat over the fire until the mixture thickens. Whipped Cream Sauce I, pint of cream | cup of castor sugar White of 1 egg ^ tea-spoon vanilla, or a little brandy Beat the cream until stiff. Add the sugar and vanilla. Beat the white of egg until frothy. Add to the cream and beat all together. 8GPastry Book 87 Wine Sauce—I J pint melted butter 1 tea-spoon lemon juice 1 wine-glass sherry or madeira Make the melted butter (see p. 85) with water. Sweeten it with brown sugar and flavour it with lemon juice and a very little grated peel. Add the wine at the last and do not let it boil again. Wine Sauce—II 1 cup white wine Yolks of 4 eggs 1 tea-spoon lemon juice The rind of £ of a lemon Heat the wine, sugar, lemon juice and peel. Beat the yolks thoroughly in a large basin. Directly the wine comes to the boil, pour it over the yolks. Beat with an egg-whisk until very frothy.Jellies Calf’s Foot Jelly Gelatine Jelly Claret Jelly. Cranberry Jelly Gel^e Fouettee Lemon Froth Maraschino Jelly Orange Baskets Orange Jelly Prune Jelly . Bhubarb Jelly89 General Instructions It lias been found difficult in the receipts which follow, owing to the variation of the quantity of juice in lemons, etc., to give the exact quantity of gelatine required. /I safe rule in making jellies is to use 2 ozs. of gelatine to every one and three-quarter quarts of liquid. In summer 2 ozs. of gelatine will be needed to each quart and a half. (This must include all liquid flavourings and be very carefully measured.) The best gelatine is now so pure, that it is practically unnecessary to go to the trouble of making jelly from calfs feet, a receipt for which has, however, been given. More elaborate jellies are made by the addition of fruit. To do this, pour jelly into a mould to the depth of half an inch. When set, arrange on it a layer of perfectly fresh ripe fruit—strawberries, cherries, grapes, pine-apple, peaches, oranges, etc. —adding another layer of jelly, and when that is set, more fruit, and so on, until the mould is full. During the process the mould should be kept on ice, so that the jelly will set quickly. Before putting jelly into a mould, dip it in very cold water, and invert for a moment. Pour in the jelly while still wet.The Pudding Book 90 Use a silver or wooden spoon for stirring, and do not stir jelly while it is cooling. To colour jelly pink, add a few drops of cochineal. To loosen the jelly when ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water. Dry the mould before turning out. o91 Calf’s Foot Jelly 4 calf’s feet 4 quarts water 1 pint wine or water 1 lb. crushed lump sugar 4 whites of eggs 2 lemons stick cinnamon 1 tea-spoon grated nutmeg Clean the calf’s feet thoroughly. Boil them in the water until it is reduced to half the original quantity. This will take about eight hours. Skim occasionally. Pour into a large basin. Set aside for twelve hours. Remove the fat very carefully. Put back into a large pan, being careful to keep back the dregs. Add the sugar whisked up with the whites, the juice of the lemons, the grated rind of one, and the spice. Let it boil for ten minutes. Skim. Add the wine and boil up again for two minutes. Strain through a jelly bag two or three times, and keep in a cold place. Gelatine Jelly A little over ^ oz. isinglass 1 gill cold water v pint boiling water 3 ozs. sugar 1 lemon 1 white and the shell of l egg 1 gill brandy Soak the isinglass in the cold water for an hour. Put it into the boiling water. Add theThe Pudding and 92 sugar, the finely-pared rind of the lemon, the white and crushed shell of an egg. Boil one minute. Pour in a table-spoon cold water. Set aside ten minutes. Strain through a jelly bag. Add one gill brandy or sherry when cool. Pour into a wetted mould. Cranberry Jelly Stew some cranberries in plenty of water until they are soft. Rub them through a sieve. Put the pulp into an enamelled saucepan. When it boils add sugar in the proportion of one pound to every pint of pulp. Stir continually for a few minutes and pour into a mould. "Claret Jelly 1 bottle claret 1 lemon 1 gill red currant jelly 5 lb. loaf sugar A little over 1 oz. isinglass 1 gill brandy Soak the gelatine in a very little water. Add it to the claret with the juice and rind of the lemon, jelly, the crushed loaf sugar and brandy. Boil altogether for five minutes. Put once through a jelly bag. Dip a mould with a hollow centre into cold water. Pour in the jelly. Serve with whipped cream in the centre of the mould. Instead of claret and red currant jelly, a white wine and quince jelly can be used.Pastry Book 93 *Gelee Fouettce 2 pint champagne | pint water 2 lemons 6 ozs. lump sugar A little over 1 oz. gelatine Make a syrup of the water and sugar. Add the soaked gelatine, juice of two lemons and the finely-pared peel of one lemon. Boil three minutes. Strain through a jelly bag. When cold, but still liquid, add the champagne and beat on ice until very frothy. Put into a mould or serve in glasses. Lemon Froth 1 oz. gelatine -I, pint boiling water | pint cold water 3 lemons 6 ozs. lump sugar Whites of 6 eggs Dissolve the gelatine and sugar in the boiling water with the finely-pared lemon peel. Add the cold water and the juice of the lemons. Skim with a silver spoon. Strain into a large basin. When beginning to set, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Beat well together and pile up in a glass dish. Serve with sweetened whipped cream.The Pudding and 94 Maraschino Jelly Make a gelatine jelly, using maraschino instead of brandy, and adding it when the jelly is cold but still liquid. Cut several oranges across in half. Take out the pulp and scrape the inside until clean. Put into cold water. Use the juice to make a jelly. Break the jelly into small pieces. Pile it high in each half of an orange. Make handles of strips of Angelica. Whipped cream may be added as a garnish. 14 ozs. loaf sugar | pint water 1 oz. isinglass 12 oranges 1 lemon 1 white of egg Boil the sugar and water together. Skim. Add the gelatine, the grated rind of one orange, the lemon and the whisked white of egg. Boil five minutes. Add the juice of the oranges. Strain through a jelly bag. Orange BasketsPastry Book 95 * Prune Jelly 1 lb. prunes j lb. sugar 2 thin pieces lemon peel 1 oz. gelatine 1| pints water 1 oz. sweet almonds 1 gill sherry Set the prunes to soak in water for one hour. Drain them and put them in an enamelled sauce- pan. Add the water, lemon peel and sugar, and stew till tender. Then remove the stones. Put the prunes through a fine sieve. Crack the stones, split the kernels, and add them with the blanched and chopped almonds to the prunes. Set on the fire again. Add the gelatine, which should have been previously soaked for an hour. Boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Add the sherry. Pour into a wet mould. Serve with whipped cream. Rhubarb Jelly 1 i lbs. rhubarb l| lbs. lump sugar Gelatine 1 lemon Stew the rhubarb, the finely pared peel and juice of the lemon and sugar with a little water,The Pudding Book over a very gentle fire, until pulpy. Pass through a fine sieve. To every pint of rhubarb pulp, add three quarters of an ounce of gelatine dissolved in a very little boiling water. Stir over the fire till thoroughly mixed. Pour into a wet mould with a hollow in the centre. When serving, fill the hollow with whipped cream.Creams PAQE Bavarian Cream—I. . . . .98 „ Cream—II. . . . .98 Cliartreu.se of Orange .... 100 „ of Strawberries . . .101 Chestnut Cream ..... 102 Chocolate Bavarois .... 103 Creme aux Fruits ..... 103 „ Hollandaise .... 104 Noyau Cream . . . . .105 Orange Cream ..... 105 Rhenish Cream . . . . .106 Bice Cream . . . . . .107 Strawberry Cream . . . .108 Strawberry or Raspberry Cream . . 10898 "Bavarian Cream—I i oz. gelatine 1 pint cream 3 table-spoons powdered sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla Soak the gelatine. Whip the cream. Dissolve the gelatine in a little boiling milk. Strain it into a basin. Add whichever flavouring is chosen, stirring continually until cool but still liquid. Then add the cream and mix thoroughly. Pour into moulds and set on ice, if possible. This cream may be flavoured with two table- spoons maraschino, two table - spoons caramel (melted and browned sugar), a small coffee-cup of very clear, strong coffee or three table-spoons powdered chocolate instead of vanilla. Bavarian Cream—II 5 yolks 4 ozs. powdered sugar 1 oz. gelatine 1 quart cream J> pint cream Boil half pint of cream, pour it over the yolks. Add the sugar and stir over a gentle fire until thePastry Book 99 mixture begins to thicken. Add the gelatine, which lias been dissolved in a very little water Mix thoroughly. Put through a line hair sieve into a basin. Beat until cold. Add the vanilla and the cream whipped. Pour into a mould and set on ice, if possible. This cream can be flavoured with three table- spoons of maraschino which should be added with the cream. In this case the mould used may be lined with maraschino jelly (see p. 94) To do this fill the mould with jelly to the depth of an inch. When it is firm, set a smaller mould inside the mould in use, fill the space all round it with jelly and leave till set. Then pour a little warm water on the inner mould to loosen it. Take it out carefully and fill the space with cream. The inner mould should be about an inch and a half smaller in diameter than the outer mould. A small cup of strong, clear coffee can be used as flavouring, or one table-spoon lemon juice and one gill rum.The Pudding and 100 Chartreuse of Orange Orange jelly Oranges For cream | oz. gelatine 4 pint cream 5 lb. sugar For this and the following receipt two plain moulds are required. One should be about H inches larger in diameter than the other. Cj Into the larger mould pour orange jelly (see p. 94) to make a layer 4 an inch deep. When slightly set arrange a second layer of sections of oranges which have had all the skin and pips removed. Cover these with more orange jelly. Set aside until firm. Place the smaller mould exactly in the centre of the larger one, resting it on the jelly. Fill up the space between the two moulds with sections of orange, prepared as before. Pour jelly over them so that the space is completely filled up. Place upon ice, or in a very cold place, until the jelly is firmly set. Dissolve the gelatine (which should have been previously soaked for three hours) in a little hot milk. Whip the cream (see p. 3) and pour in the strained gelatine slowly, stirring all the time. Flavour with a syrup made asPastry Book 101 follows: Take \ lb. lump sugar. Rub the rind of one orange off on several lumps; put all together with the juice of two oranges into an enamel saucepan. Stir over a gentle lire till melted. Pour this syrup, when cool, slowly over the cream, whipping all the time. When the jelly is set pour a little warm water into the inner mould to loosen it. Take it out very carefully. Fill in the space with the cream. Other fruits may be used and lemon jelly can be used instead of orange. In all cases great care should be taken in arranging the fruit. If the oranges or fruit used arc sour, soak them for an hour in a syrup of sugar and brandy or rum. "Chartreuse of Strawberries 2 lbs. strawberries 1 pint clear lemon jelly v> pint cream Sugar b oz. gelatine Proceed as for orange chartreuse, using one pound of strawberries cut lengthways in half to decorate the jelly. For the cream mash the rest of the strawberries with sufficient sugar to sweeten thoroughly. PutThe Pudding and 102 through a line sieve. Whip the cream. Dissolve the gelatine in a very little hot water. Strain it, and when cool, but still quite liquid, add it slowly to the strawberry juice, stirring all the time. Add the whipped cream gradually and a few drops of cochineal. "Chestnut Cream 20 chestnuts 1 oz. gelatine i pint milk 1 lb. sugar | a lemon 1 wine-glass curo§oa | pint cream Boil, skin and pound the chestnuts, put them through a sieve. Boil the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, the sugar and milk together. Take off the lire and add the previously-soaked gelatine. Stir till melted. Strain. When cool add the chestnut puree and beat till smooth. Add the curacoa and whipped cream. Mix well and pour into a mould. Serve with sweetened whipped cream.Pastry Book 103 *C liocolate Bavarois I pint cream 1 oz. gelatine 1 oz. cliocolate 1 cup milk | lb. powdered sugar Soak the gelatine in a little of the milk. Melt the chocolate in a little hot water with a little sugar. Stir until smooth. Boil the rest of the milk. Add the gelatine to it. Stir till dissolved. Add the chocolate. Strain and add the sugar. Set in a cool place, on ice if possible, in a large basin. Beat until cool. Whip the cream (see p. 3). Stir it in and pour all into a mould. Creme aux Fruits I quart cream | cup sugar 4 whites of ego;s 1 tea-spoon vanilla 1 table-spoon wine or liqueur 1 cup chopped crystallised fruit 1 oz. gelatine Soak the gelatine in cold water. Whip the cream (see p. 3). Add the sugar. DissolveThe Pudding and 104 the gelatine in a very little boiling water. Stir it quiekly until cool. Pour it slowly on the whites beaten to a dry stiff froth. Stir well to- gether. Add the cream, mix very well. Add the vanilla, wine or liqueur. When the mixture begins to thicken add the fruit gradually. Place a number of crystallised cherries in the bottom of a mould. Pour in the cream. Set on ice. Creme Hollandaise 10 yolks ^ pint white wine 1 lemon ^ oz. gelatine 1 pint whipped cream Put the yolks, wine and the rind of the lemon, very thinly peeled, into an enamelled saucepan. Stir over a gentle fire until the mixture thickens. Melt the gelatine, which should have been soaked for an hour, in as little hot water as possible. Add it slowly to the yolks. Stir till thoroughly mixed. Strain into a basin. Beat until cool. Stir in the whipped cream (see p. 3) and set on ice or in a cold place.Pastry Book 105 Noyau Cream ] lb. Jordan almonds h oz. bitter almonds | lb. powdered sugar lj pints cream 1 oz. gelatine Noyau Blanch and pound the almonds, moistening with a little of the cream. Rub through a hair sieve. Whip the rest of the cream. Flavour with noyau. Stir in the almonds and mix till smooth. Dissolve the gelatine, which should have been soaked in preparation, in a very little hot water. Strain and stir until cool but still liquid. Pour into the cream, stirring continually until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a mould. 1 large Seville orange 1 table-spoon brandy 4 yolks 4 ozs. lump sugar 1 pint cream i oz. gelatine Rub the rind of the orange on to two or three lumps of sugar. Add them to the rest of the CreamThe Pudding and sugar, brandy and the juice of the orange. Stir over a very gentle fire till melted. When cool add the well beaten yolks to the syrup. Beat for quarter of an hour. Scald the cream, add the gelatine, dissolved in a very little water, to it. Mix well. Strain on to the yolks and beat till cool and beginning to set. Pour into a mould. Rhenish Cream 1 oz. isinglass 1 pint water 6 yolks 1 pint cream 2 lemons 2 glasses white wine 4 ozs. powdered sugar Soak the isinglass in | pint cold water. Add it to ] pint boiling water. Stir till dissolved. Beat the yolks till very light. Add the cream, the juice of two lemons and the rind of one, the wine, sugar, and strained isinglass. Strain all together through a fine sieve. Whisk until it begins to set. Pour into glasses or moulds.Pastry Book 107 Rice Cream j lb. rice Milk | piece cinnamon Finely cut rind of ^ a lemon 5 yolks 5 table-spoons powdered sugar 2 ozs. butter l i pints cream 1 oz. gelatine Put the rice, cinnamon, and lemon peel in a little salted boiling milk, and simmer until the rice is tender and the milk all absorbed. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar and beat again. Then add the well-beaten yolks. Beat thoroughly together. Add the hot rice gradually, and stir over the fire in a double boiler until the mixture begins to thicken. l)o not let it boil. Then pour into a basin and stir occasionally. Whip the cream (see p. 3). Melt the gelatine in a very little boiling milk. Strain it and when slightly cooled stir it gradually into the rice. Add the cream, mixing it lightly. Stir from time to time until the mixtures begin to set. Then pour into a mould. To the above a glass of rum or any other flavouring can be added.The Pudding Book Strawberry Cream Line a basin with fine large strawberries and o fill it with Bavarian cream (see p. 98). Strawberry or Raspberry Cream Sufficient fruit to make 1 pint of juice 1 cup powdered sugar l oz. gelatine h cup boiling water 1 pint cream Soak the gelatine in a little cold water. Mash the fruit and mix the sugar with it. When the sugar has dissolved rub through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water. Strain slowly over the fruit juice, beating it rapidly while doing so, until the mixture begins to set. Stir in the whipped cream (see p. 3) and pour into a porcelain mould. Instead of fresh fruit the contents of a tin of apricots or peaches mashed, or a grated tinned pine apple, can be used.109 Cold Puddings Charlotte Russe Chocolate Blanc-Mange „ Meringue Cornflour Pudding . Cream Whip Danish Pudding Ginger Pudding- Gooseberry Fool Lemon Souffle Marrons a la Celestine Meringues . Milk Jelly . Mousse aux fruits Givres Orange Charlotte . Pain aux Fruits Pine Apple Meringue Pines on Horseback Queen of Puddings Spanish Cream Strawberry Sponge King’s Souffle PAGE no no in in 112 112 113 113 114 114 115 116 116 117 117 118 118 119 120 120 121110 Charlotte Russe 5 oz. gelatine 1 pint cream 12 lady fingers 3 table-spoons powdered sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla 1 table-spoon sherry or liqueur Set the gelatine to soak in cold water. Line a mould with lady fingers, leaving a little space between each. Whip the cream (see p. 3). Add the sugar, vanilla, and wine. Dissolve the gelatine in as little boiling water as possible. Strain it very slowly through a fine strainer into the cream, stirring rapidly all the time. Stir until the cream begins to stiffen. Then pour it into the mould and set in a cold place or on ice. The mould may be lined with plain or rolled wafers instead of lady fingers. The cream may be flavoured with coffee, choco- late, or any fruit syrup. Chocolate Blanc-Mange 1| ozs. gelatine 1 quart milk \ lb. powdered sugar 4 table-spoons grated chocolate i tea-spoon vanilla Soak the gelatine for two hours. Add it to the warmed milk and sugar. Let it heat gently.Pastry Book 111 When the gelatine is melted, strain. Add the chocolate and boil for five minutes, stirring continually. Take off the tire. When nearly cold, beat for ten minutes with a whisk and add the vanilla. Pour into a mould. Serve with cream. Chocolate Meringue G whites of eggs 1 lb. powdered sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla 3 ozs. powdered chocolate Beat three whites with the sugar for fifteen minutes. Then add the rest of the whites one at a time, beating well. Add the vanilla and chocolate. Drop on stiff note-paper which has been well buttered, and place upon a board in a slow oven. Bake until dry. Cornflour Pudding 1 pint milk 3 table-spoons powdered sugar 3 whites of eggs •i tea-spoon vanilla 2 heaping table-spoons cornflour Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little of the milk. Put the rest with the sugar in a double boiler. When boiling add the corn- flour. Stir till perfectly smooth and thick. ThenThe Pudding and 112 leave to cook gently for about twenty minutes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Stir them in and continue stirring for two or three minutes. Take off the fire. Add the vanilla. If not perfectly smooth, strain. Pour into a mould. *Cream Whip 1 pint cream 1 cup sherry 1 lemon | cup sugar 2 whites of eggs Whip the cream lightly. Add the sherry, rind and juice of the lemon, sugar and the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Stir until the sugar is melted. Skim off the froth and set it on a sieve. Fill custard glasses with the cream. Put the froth on the top of each glass. Danish Pudding I cup pearl tapioca It? pints boiling water f cup sugar h cup currant jelly Or fresh fruit juice Soak the tapioca all night. Boil in the water till tender and transparent. Stir frequently. Add the sugar, a little salt and the jelly or fruit. Stir together till melted. Pour into a dish and set on ice or in a cold place. Serve with cream.Pastry Book 113 H "Ginger Pudding oz. isinglass J pint milk 3 ozs. butter 2 ozs. powdered sugar 4 eggs 1 lemon 1 small tea-spoon powdered ginger Preserved ginger and syrup Dissolve the isinglass in a very little hot water. Add to it the milk, butter, sugar and well-beaten volks. Stir over the fire in a double-boiler until \j it thickens, being careful not to let it boil. Pour into a basin, and when nearly cold, but not set, add the powdered ginger, the whites (beaten to a stiff froth), and the juice of the lemon. Mix lightly together and pour into a buttered pudding basin to set. Serve with a little chopped pre- served ginger and syrup. Gooseberry Fool 1 pint green gooseberries ± lb. sugar l pint cream Simmer the gooseberries with the sugar in a very little water until tender. Put through a sieve. Whip the cream slightly and beat well with the gooseberry puree. This can be made with any kind of fruit.The Pudding and " 114 *Lemon Souffle 4 eggs 7 ozs. powdered sugar 6 leaves gelatine (over of an oz.). 3 lemons Whipped cream Soak the gelatine for an hour in a little water. Beat the yolks and sugar for fifteen minutes. Add the juice of two lemons and the grated rind of one and a half. Whip the whites to a stiff froth. Stir them lightly in. Take the gelatine out of the cold water. Dissolve it in a very little «/ hot water. When cooled pour it very gradually into the mixture, which must he beaten all the while. Beat for five minutes in a cold place. Pour into a silver or glass dish. When set, and it will set very quickly, cover with sweetened whipped cream flavoured with a quarter tea- spoon vanilla. Garnish with grated pistachios. *Marrons a la Celestine Boil some chestnuts. Peel them and put them through a fine sieve. Stir over the fire for two or three minutes with sugar to taste and a little cream. Divide into four parts. To one add the yolk of an egg, to another a little meltedPastry Rook 115 chocolate, to another a few drops of cochineal, and to the fourth a little sage colouring. M ix each well. Whip some cream with the white of an egg, and sweeten it and flavour with vanilla. Pile it in the centre of a dish. Put the differently coloured chestnut purees separately through a coarse sieve, and arrange lightly around and on the cream. This is equally good and simpler to make if colouring is not used. Pile the sweetened and sifted chestnuts on a dish and cover with whipped cream, or garnish with slices of sweetened orange. Meringues Whip four whites of eggs and a little salt until frothy, gradually adding while doing so a break- fast-cup of powdered sugar. Beat until perfectly smooth and firm. Cover a board with white paper. Drop the mixture, one and a half table- spoons at a time, in oblong shapes upon the paper. Put the board in a very slack oven. When a crust has been formed, scoop out the soft centre of each meringue and turn it over to dry inside. If the meringues do not come off the paper easily, moisten it on the under-side.The Pudding and Milk Jelly I oz. gelatine § cup powdered sugar if pints milk 1 tea-spoon vanilla Soak the gelatine in a little of the milk for an hour. Boil the sugar and the rest of the milk together. Add the gelatine. When dissolved, take from the fire. Add the flavouring and strain into a mould. "Mousse aux Fruits Givres !, lb. sweet almonds I tea-spoon lemon juice 3 whites of eggs 3 ozs. powdered sugar Spinach colouring i pint whipped cream Sugared fruit Blanch and pound the almonds with the lemon juice. Put through a fine sieve. Add the whites and sugar. Beat well together. Stir o o over the fire for two or three minutes. Take off and colour with green colouring. Put the o o whipped cream in the centre of a dish. Put the almond paste through a coarse sieve and arrange it lightly around the cream. Decorate with sugared fruit (see p. 1(55). 11(5Pastry Rook 117 Orange Charlotte 5 oz. gelatine 1 cup powdered sugar | pint orange juice 1 scant cup water 4 eggs Lady fingers Soak the gelatine. Boil the juice, water and sugar. Skim. Beat the yolks thoroughly. Pour the syrup over them slowly, beating hard all the time. Put into a double boiler and stir the mixture till it thickens. Dissolve the gelatine in as little boiling water as possible. Put the mixture in a good-sized basin and strain the gelatine into it, beating continually. When cool, but not hard, stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and beat altogether till it begins to thicken. Then pour the mixture into moulds lined with lady’s fingers. This Charlotte can be made with the juice of any fruit, tinned or fresh. Pain aux Fruits 1 pint of fruit pulp 1 oz. gelatine 1 gill cold water 1 gill hot water Crush some apricots, strawberries, raspberries, peaches, or pine-apples. Sweeten and add a littleThe Pudding and liqueur and lemon juice, and, if liked, blanched and chopped almonds. To each pint of fruit use one ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in one gill of cold water and dissolved in one gill of hot water. Stir well together until the mixture begins to set. Pour into a china mould. Serve with a rich custard or cream. Pine Apple Meringue i pint cream \ cup grated pine-apple 4 table-spoons sugar h oz. gelatine 7 meringue cases Whip the cream. Dissolve the gelatine in a very little boiling water. Strain it gradually over the cream, whisking it continually while doing so. Stir in the grated pine-apple and the sugar. Beat in a cold place until the mixture begins to set. Then arrange the meringues and cream in layers. Garnish with crystallised fruits. Pines on Horseback Stale cake Pine apple Wine or liqueur (hit the cake, which must be plain, into small rounds. Chop the pine-apple and put it in aPastry Book 119 basin with plenty of sugar to sweeten. Soak the cake in wine or liqueur. Pile the pine apple into little mounds on each piece. To the juice add a very little wine or liqueur and arrowroot (in the proportion of a tea-spoon to half a pint of juice). Cook until thick and clear. Pour over the pine-apple and cake. Arrange on a dish, covering each with a little whipped cream. "Queen of Puddings 1 pint of sponge cake 10 ratafias 2 ozs. sugar 2 ozs. butter ^ rind of a lemon grated 1 pint of milk 4 eggs Crumble the sponge cakes and ratafias finely. Pour the milk over them. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the yolks and beat again. Mi x well with the sponge cake. Beat the whites till frothy and stir them in. When thoroughly mixed, turn into a buttered pudding-dish. Bake half an hour. When cold turn out. Spread with a layer of jam and cover with whipped cream.The Pudding and 120 ^Spanish Cream 1 pint milk A oz. gelatine A cup sugar 3 eggs | tea-spoon vanilla Soak the gelatine in the milk for two hours. Beat up the eggs till very light. Add the sugar and beat again. Bring the milk and gelatine to the boil. Pour over the eggs and sugar. Strain. Put on the fire in a double boiler and stir till thick; but do not allow it to boil. Add the vanilla and pour into a wet mould. ^Strawberry Sponge 1 quart strawberries Powdered sugar 4 whites of eggs | pint boiling water 1 oz. isinglass Mash the strawberries with sufficient sugar to sweeten and set them aside for about an hour. Boil the water and two ounces of sugar for twenty minutes. Add the gelatine which has been soaked for an hour in a little cold water. Remove fromPastry Rook 121 the fire and strain. Put the strawberries through a fine sieve. Add the syrup gradually, beating hard for five minutes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add them to the strawberries and beat till the mixture begins to set. Put into a wet mould. Serve with whipped cream. "King’s Souffle. b lb. powdered sugar. 3 small lemons. 3 eggs. h pint whipped cream. I oz. gelatine. ^ gill water. Beat the yolks of the eggs. Add to them the sugar, the juice of three lemons, and grated rind of two. Pour into a double-boiler, and whisk continually until the mixture thickens. Do not let it boil. Strain and set aside to cool. Melt the gelatine in the water, and add it to the cold egg mixture. Add the cream and the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Whip lightly together, and when beginning to set, pour into a mould. Garnish with crystallised violets or rose-leaves.122 Pastry Plain Pastry—I. » » ' II. • „ „ (Short) Puff Pastry . Rich Crust . Short Crust for Tartlets Biscuit Paste for Tartlets . PAGE 125 125 125 126 126 127 127General Directions In making pastry, the colder the hands of the maker, the water and the room, the better. A marble slab is the best thing on which to make it: otherwise a hard board which is kept for pastry only should be used. Use iced water for mixing, when possible. Pastry will be flakier if set on ice before it is finally rolled out for use. The flour used should be very dry and should be sifted with a little salt. Use the best flour onlv and fresh butter, or half butter, half lard. Use as little water as possible. Never knead pastry. Use the hands as little as possible. Mix with a knife unless otherwise specified. Bake in a moderate or quick oven. Baking powder, in the proportion of one tea- spoon to each quart of flour, may be added when eggs are not used. The baking powder should be sifted twice with the flour before mixing. It is better to bake pastry separately from the fruit when possible. It will thus be much crisper. To do this till the dish which is to be used with stiff crumpled paper, over which a smooth and well-buttered piece should be laid. Cover with the pastry and bake. Remove the kpastryTand 12TThe Pudding Book 124 fill the dish with well-sweetened stewed fruit. Moisten the edges of the disli with white of egg and replace the crust. In making open tarts and tartlets, when the tin is lined with pastry it can be filled with rice and baked. This is in order to keep the crust crisp. The rice must be taken out and the fruit or jam put in its place just before serving.125 Plain Pastry—I 12 ozs. Hour 3 ozs. butter 3 ozs. lard Salt Cut up the lard and butter, very finely, in the Hour. With a knife, mix with a little water. Roll and fold up three or four times. Plain Pastry—II 1 lb. flour b lb. butter Cold water Rub the butter into the flour. Add eold water gradually to make a stiff paste, mixing with a knife. Roll out quickly. Plain Pastry Crust—III (For Tarts) 4 ozs. butter 2 ozs. lard 10 ozs. flour Beat the butter to a cream. Rub butter and lard very carefully into the flour, adding a little salt. Mix with as little water as possible.The Pudding and 126 Tuff Pastry ] lb. fresh butter 1 lb. dry sifted flour Salt Work tlic Hour well with a little water into a still’ dough. Flour the pastry board slightly. Roll out the dough until one inch thick. Flatten the butter and put in the centre of the dough. Fold the edges up over the butter and roll out very lightly five times, always rolling outwards, and using as little Hour as possible on the board. The butter must on no account be allowed to work through the paste. Set aside in a cold place, or on ice, for at least an hour. When making tarts, &c., cut off a piece at a time, instead of using the whole quantity, and roll out very lightly. Bake in a rather hot oven. This is a simple and excellent receipt. Rich Crust—IV 10 ozs. flour 8 ozs. butter Juice of a lemon Hub two ounces of the butter into the Hour. Mix with the lemon juice and a little water. Divide the rest of the butter into three parts. Roll out the paste half an inch thick. Cut one lot of butter into small pieces and dab them on the paste.Pastry Book Fold it over three times lengthwise, and then three times the other way. Roll out again. Repeat the process twice, when the butter will be used up. This receipt may be made with baking powder (see General Directions). "Short Crust—V (For Tartlets) 1 lb. Hour | lb. butter 2 table-spoons powdered sugar Yolks of 3 eggs W ater Salt Rub the butter into the Hour and sugar. Beat the yolks with a little water. Stir into the flour with a knife until smooth. Biscuit Paste—VI (For Open Tarts and Tartlets) 1 lb. Hour l lb. sugar 6 yolks Milk Sift the flour and sugar together. Stir in the eggs with a knife. Make into a stiff paste with some milk (about 1 gill). 12 7Open Tarts and Tartlets Almond Tartlets—1. „ „ II. Chocolate Cream Tartlets Cream Tartlets Cream and Fruit Tartlets Fruit Tartlets Lemon Cheesecakes Mincemeat . Orange Tartlets Strawberry Tartlets PACK 129 129 130 130 131 132 132 133 133 134T 129 Almond Tartlets—I f lb. sweet almonds 5 ozs. powdered sugar 10 drops vanilla (j whites of eggs A few drops of lemon juice Blanch and pound the almonds with the lemon juice. Add the sugar. Whip the whites to a stiff froth. Stir in the almonds, sugar and vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven in patty pans lined with puff pastry. Almond Tartlets—II 5 ozs. potato Hour 8 yolks 3 whites 2§ ozs. butter 2 lemons 2| ozs. sweet almonds f oz. bitter almonds Blanch and pound the almonds. Melt the butter. Grate the rind of the lemons. Beat the yolks. Mix all thoroughly together except the whites. Beat them to a froth, and stir them in last. Line two round tins with short crust (see p. 12/). Spread it with apricot jam, and pour the almond mixture over it. Bake in a slow oven.The Pudding and 130 Chocolate Cream Tartlets 1 pint milk li ozs. grated chocolate 14 ozs. Hour f lb. powdered sugar 1 oz. butter 4 eggs Boil the chocolate and milk together. Stir in the flour, mixed smooth in a little cold milk. Stir until it thickens. Strain. Pour over the well beaten yolks. Add the sugar and butter. Stir over the fire until just below boiling point. Line small tins with a short crust. Fill with the cream and bake. Make a meringue of two whites and two table-spoons of powdered sugar (see p. 4). Put in the oven to brown slightly. Cream Tartlets 1 pint cream 4 pint milk 2 ozs. powdered sugar Peel of one lemon 8 yolks Put the cream and milk into a sauce-pan. When they boil, add the sugar, the very finely-Pastry Book 131 pared lemon peel and a little salt. Stir for a few moments. Pour the cream over the well beaten yolks. Set back on the fire. When thick, strain into a basin. Set aside in a cool place till wanted. Line some small tins with puff paste. Fill with uncooked rice. Bake. Take out the rice and fill with custard. Sprinkle with lemon sugar (see p. 104). Cream and Fruit Tartlets For cream :— 1 tea-cup cream or milk 2 whites of eggs 1 table-spoon powdered sugar 4 tea-spoon cornflour Line a dish with short crust. Fill it closely with raspberries, strawberries, cherries or other fruit and sufficient sugar. Cover with crust, but do not press it down round the edges. When baked, lift off the upper crust and fill with cream. Cream.—Scald the milk or cream. Add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, the sugar and the cornflour mixed smooth with a little cold milk. Boil three minutes, stirring continually. Set aside until quite cold.The Pudding and 132 Fruit Tartlets Stew the fruit until tender, taking care to keep it whole, in plenty of water and sugar. Take out the fruit gently with a skimmer when done. Add a few drops of lemon juice to the syrup. Boil it until reduced to a thick syrup. Line several small tins with a short crust (No. IV. or V.). Fill with uncooked rice and bake. Take out the rice. Arrange the fruit in them and pour the syrup over. Lemon Cheesecakes f lb. butter 1 lh. loaf sugar G eggs 3 lemons Melt the sugar in the lemon juice. Add the butter, eggs (taking out the whites of two) and the grated rind of two lemons. Stir until thick and of the consistency of honey. A few pounded almonds may be added. Line small tins with puff or short pastry, fill with the mixture and bake.Pastry Book 133 Mincemeat 2 lbs. suet 3 lbs. raisins 2 lbs. sultanas 2 lbs. currants 1 lb. mixed candied peel 2 lbs. moist sugar 1 dozen sour apples 4 lemons, grated peel and juice 2 tea-spoons mixed spice 2 „ ground ginger 1 lb. pounded sweet almonds 2 grated nutmegs I, pint brandy $ pint sherry Mix the sugar, spices and very finely-chopped suet. Chop the fruit, and peel as fine as possible. Mix all well together, adding the brandy and wine last. It is best made several weeks before using. Orange Tartlets 7 oranges 2 pint syrup 1 lemon Puff or short paste Peel six oranges. Scrape off all the white skin with a sharp knife. Divide into sections, re- moving all the rest of the white and seeds. Drop them very carefully into boiling syrup (seep. 151)The Pudding Book and let them simmer three minutes. Take the pieces out gently, and set them on a sieve to drain over a basin. To the syrup add the juice of an orange and lemon and the juice that drains from the cooked oranges. Reduce it by boiling till very thick. Line some patty pans with short or puff paste. Fill them with uncooked rice and hake quickly. Remove the rice, arrange the oranges on the pastry and pour the syrup over them just before serving. Strawberry Tartlets 1 lb. loaf sugar 1 gill water 1 wine-glass brandy or sherry Strawberries Make a syrup of the sugar and water. Add the brandy or sherry. Reduce until thick. Pour this syrup over a number of fine straw- berries. Line some small tins with short crust (No. 125). Fill them with uncooked rice and bake in a quick oven. Turn out the rice and fill with the strawberries and syrup. Serve hot.American Pies Apple Pie . Cocoanut Pie Custard Pie. Lemon Pie—I. ,, „ II. Mincemeat . Mock Mincemeat Pine-Apple Pie PAGK 137 137 138 138 139 140 141 141General Directions The following American receipts are all good. Care, however, must be taken in baking that there is a good bottom heat, or the under crust will be sodden. The pies should be made in shallow tins about 8 to 9 inches in diameter. Puff paste may be used; but No. II. pastry (see p. 125) is very satisfactory. It should be rolled very thin. Where a covering of pastry is used, it should be slit across the centre in three places, about two inches long, to allow the steam to escape.137 Apple Pie 1 lb. sour apples 7 ozs. brown sugar Roll out pie crust No. II. very thin. Line a tin with it. Pare and core the apples and cut them in thin sections. Arrange them symmetri- cally on the undercrust. Add the sugar. Cover with a thin overcrust, moistening it with water at the edges and pressing down. Make three slits about two inches long in the centre of the crust to allow the steam to escape. Bake in a moderate oven. Wellington apples should be used, if possible. Cocoanut Pie .V lb. grated cocoanut | lb. powdered sugar 6 ozs. butter 5 whites of eggs 2 table-spoons rose water 1 gill white wine Cream the butter and sugar. Beat for fifteen minutes with the rosewater and wine. Stir in the cocoanut and then the whites, beaten to aThe Pudding and 138 stiff froth, lightly and quickly. Pour into a tin lined with No. II. pastry or puff pastry. Serve cold, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Custard Pie 3 eggs 1 table-spoon sifted flour 3 table-spoons powdered sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla 1 pint scalded milk Peat the yolks till light and creamy. Sift the sugar and flour together. Add it to the volks. Add a little salt and the vanilla. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Whip them in. Add the cold scalded milk gradually. Put into a tin lined with puff pastry. Bake thirty minutes. Lemon Pie—I 2 lemons 3 eggs 2 table-spoons flour 12 ozs. powdered sugar 1 pint water 1 oz. butter Grate the rind of the lemons. Pare off with a sharp knife all the white skin. Cut the lemonsPastry Rook 139 into very small pieces, removing all skin and pips. Put them in an enamelled saucepan. Add the sugar, flour and two-thirds of the grated rind and the water. When hot, stir in the beaten eggs. Re- move from the fire when just below boiling point. Stir in the butter. When cold, pour into a tin lined with thin pastry. Cover with pastry and bake. Lemon Pie—II 2 lemons lk cups powdered sugar 1 table-spoon corn-flour 3 eggs 2 cups of water Butter size of a walnut Mix the sugar, flour and grated rind of the lemons thoroughly. Beat the yolks till light and creamy. Add to the sugar and beat well. Stir in the water. Set on the fire in a double boiler. Stir continually. When hot, add the butter. Stir till thick but do not allow it to boil. When cool pour it into a rather deep tin lined with No. II. pastry or puff pastry, and bake. Whip the whites to a froth, adding gradually three table-spoons powdered sugar. Spread on the pie when cold. Put in the oven to brown a little. Serve cold.The Pudding and 140 Mincemeat f lb. meat 1 lb. suet 2 lbs. raisins 1 lb. currants 4| lbs. chopped apples 1 lb. golden syrup 2b lbs. brown sugar b lb. mixed peel J table-spoon salt b tea-spoon white pepper 1 nutmeg, grated b tea-spoon ground cloves 1 tea-spoon ground cinnamon 1 bottle sherry b pint brandy Use lean beef. Chop very fine and remove all gristle and fat. Mix all well together, adding the wine and brandy last. Bake as directed for apple pie or in small covered tarts, using No. II. pastry. Add a little lemon-juice to the mincemeat each time it is used.Pastry Book 141 Mock Mincemeat 6 toast biscuits | pint molasses or syrup 1 pint brown sugar | pint cider vinegar -J pint melted butter 4 pint chopped raisins | pint currants 2 well beaten eggs 1 dessert-spoon allspice 4 tea-spoon grated nutmeg | tea-spoon cloves 1 tea-spoon salt \ tea-spoon black pepper 1 gill brandy Crush the biscuits. Mix all well together, add- ing the brandy last of all. Pine-Apple Pie h lb. grated pine-apple \ lb. powdered sugar J lb. butter 1 gill thick cream 3 eggs Beat the butter until creamy. Add the sugar and beaten yolks, beating all till very light. Whip the cream. Add it to the grated pine-apple. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Stir them lightly in. Mix altogether. Bake with an undercrust of puff pastry or a short crust.Ices General Directions If a machine is used (and the best should be obtained) it will take about half au hour to freeze a cream or water ice. The cylinder should be set in the pail filled with finely crushed ice and rock salt, in the proportion of one part of salt to three or four of ice. To break the ice, wrap carefully in a flannel and pound it with a hammer or flat iron until it is broken into very small pieces. Pack it solidly round the cylinder in layers of about three inches, divided by layers of salt. As it is most important that there should be sufficient salt, it is best to measure both ice and salt accurately with a saucer. The cylinder should be turned slowly for the first ten minutes, then quickly. When the mixture is frozen take out the metal beater, scrape the ice from the sides of the cylinder, beat it well and pack it firmly down. Put on the cover, fix the cylinder down into the pail, and cover with a piece of old felt or carpeting which has been wetted with salt and water. Leave until it is required. Water should not be drawn off from the pail until there is so much that the cylinder begins to IJ2Pastry Book 143 float. When it does, draw off* the water and add more salt and ice. If the ice is to be put into a mould, beat it well and pack firmly into the mould. Cover closely and pack in ice. Care must be taken in removing the cover of a cylinder or mould that none of the salt mixture falls into the ice. Ices can easily be made without a machine. The cylinder is replaced by a long round biscuit or coffee tin, about four inches in diameter. Put the tin in a pail. Pack it round with ice and salt as above. Pour the mixture which is to be frozen into the tin and beat it hard for ten minutes. Put on the lid firmly. Cover it with ice and then cover the whole thing with a thick blanket or piece of carpet. Leave it for an hour. Remove the ice on lid of the tin, wipe it and take it off. Scrape off the frozen mixture at the sides and beat very hard again for ten minutes. Replace the cover, ice, salt and blanket, and leave for five or six hours, only looking occa- sionally to see if the water must be drawn off and more ice and salt added. This, although a lengthy process, is very simple and inexpensive and most successful. For beating, a long wooden spatula, thin at the end and about the size of a carving knife, should be used. It is essential that rock salt and not commonThe Pudding Book 144 salt be used. Snow can be used instead of ice, but is not quite so good. To take out ice, dip the cylinder quickly in hot water and shake it gently. Scald the tins in which ices are made directly they are emptied, and dry in the oven. If cream ices are to be put in moulds it will be found more satisfactory to add to them a little dissolved gelatine in the proportion of h, oz- °f gelatine to two quarts of cream. Cream ices are excellent served with a hot chocolate, fruit, or wine sauce. The sauce should be served separately.K 145 Cream Ices Cream Ice—I. „ „ II. • Brown Bread Cream Ice Caramel Cream Ice Chestnut Cream Ice Coffee Cream Ice . Fruit Cream Ice Strawberry Cream Ice Tutti Frutti PAGE 146 146 147 147 148 148 148 149 149"Cream Ice—I 1 quart cream 1 cup powdered sugar 1 table-spoon vanilla Scald the cream. Add the sugar. When it is melted set aside to cool. Flavour when cold. Freeze. The whites of three eggs beaten to a foam, but not stiff, may be added to the cream just before it is put into the freezer. Cream Ice—II (Frozen Custard) 1 quart milk 6 yolks if cups powdered sugar 1 2 pints thick cream 1-2 table-spoons vanilla Make a custard (sec p. 15) with the milk, sugar and yolks. Strain and, when cold, add the cream, flavouring, etc. If the larger quantity of cream has been used add more sugar. Freeze. The custard can be made with cream instead of milk. To these two creams, fruit, nuts, pounded macaroons, lemon juice, pounded ginger and rum, and any liqueur, can be added. 14(1Pastry Book 147 Brown Bread Cream Ice 1 quart cream 1 tea-cup brown bread-crumbs ^ lb. sugar Dry the brown bread and crumble and sift to very fine crumbs. Add them to the cream and sugar. When the sugar has melted, mix well together and freeze. "Caramel Cream Ice 8 ozs. powdered sugar 6 yolks of eggs 1 pint milk 1 pint cream I dessert-spoon vanilla Put the sugar in an iron sauce-pan with a very little water, and leave it until it becomes a rich brown. Let it become cold. Pound it and add the milk and yolks. Stir the mixture in a double boiler until it thickens. Strain, and when cold add the vanilla and cream.The Pudding and 148 'Chestnut Cream Ice 6 ozs. chestnuts 10 ozs. powdered sugar 1 1 pints cream Yolks of 8 eggs 4 dessert-spoon vanilla | pint whipped cream Boil, peel and rub through a fine sieve some chestnuts, measuring after they have been sifted. Beat all well together for ten minutes. Stir over the fire in a double boiler till thick. Strain through a coarse hair sieve. Add another \ pint rich whipped cream. Freeze in a mould. Coffee Cream Ice 2 ozs. best whole coffee, green or roasted 4 yolks of eggs 1 quart cream | lb. powdered sugar Mix all together. Put in a double boiler and cook until the mixture thickens but does not boil. Strain through a sieve and freeze. o Fruit Cream Ice To a cream ice (No. I. or II.) add, when partly frozen, any well-sweetened ripe or tinned fruits cut into small pieces. Beat well together, and cover tightly to freeze.Pastry Book 149 ^Strawberry Cream Ice tt pint strawberry juice 1 quart cream Powdered sugar *. Mash a sufficient quantity of strawberries to fill, when put through a sieve, a | pint measure. Add them to the cream. Add sugar until the mixture is very sweet. When the sugar is melted, freeze. Tutti Frutti 1 quart cream ice (I. or II.) 2 table-spoons maraschino i lb. candied fruit, finely chopped Add the maraschino to the cream. When partly frozen, add the fruit and beat well together. Cover closely.150 Water Ices PAGE Syrup ...... 151 Cherry Water Ice ..... 151 Frozen Macedoine of Fruit . . . 151 Frozen Punch . . . . .152 Fruit Water Ice ..... 152 Lemon Water Ice . . . . .153 Maraschino Punch . . . . .153 Orange Water Ice . . • • .154 Pine Apple Water Ice . . . .154 Raspberry Water Ice . . • .155 Strawberry Punch ..... 155151 Syrup (F or Water Ices, etc.) 3 lbs. loaf sugar 1 quart water 1 dessert-spoon white of egg Mix the egg with the water. Add the sugar. Let it melt. Boil and skim until perfectly clear. Set aside to cool. *Cherry Water Ice 1 pint cherry juice \ pint water 1 pint syrup (see above) 1 tea-spoon lemon juice Prepare the juice by pounding the cherries and putting them through a sieve, adding the water gradually whilst doing this so that all the juice may be carried through. Add the syrup and lemon juice. Frozen Macedoine of Fruit with Champagne Carefully prepare some fruit as for fruit salad (see p. 33), sweetening it well with sugar. PourThe Pudding and 152 o"\ er the fruit a bottle of champagne. Leave for four hours. Pack in ice for two hours. Serve in glasses. ^Frozen Punch 1 pint lemon juice 1 pint syrup ^ pint water 1 gill brandy 1 gill rum 5 whites of eggs Mix the lemon juice, syrup, water, brandy and rum together. Put in a freezer. When nearly frozen add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. When well mixed serve in glasses. Fruit Water Ice 1 quart fruit 1 cup cold water 2 cups powdered sugar 3 whites of eggs Crush the fruit and rub it through a sieve. Add the sugar. Stir until it is dissolved. Add the water and unbeaten whites. Freeze in a freezing machine, turning the mixture until it is frozen.Pastry Book 153 Lemon Water Ice 6 lemons b lb. lump sugar 1 quart water 1 lb. powdered sugar Whites of 4 eggs Rub off the peel of the lemons on to lump sugar. Make a syrup with the lump sugar, powdered sugar and water (see p. 151). Add the juice of the lemons. Strain. When cool add the whites beaten to a froth, and freeze. Maraschino Punch 5 lb. powdered sugar 1 quart water b pint maraschino 1 lemon 1 orange Make a syrup of the sugar and water (see p. 151). When cold add the maraschino and the juice of the lemon and orange. Strain. Freeze.The Pudding and Orange Water Ice 1 table-spoon gelatine \ cup boiling water 1 cup sugar 1 cup cold water 1 pint orange juice Soak the gelatine. Dissolve it in the boiling water. When dissolved add the sugar, cold water and orange juice. Stir till the sugar is dissolved. Strain. Freeze. "Pine-Apple Water Ice If lbs. pine apple | pint water 1 pint prepared syrup 2 lemons Grate and mash one pound of pine-apple, fresh if possible. Add the syrup (see p. 151), the juice of the lemons and the water. Put through a sieve. Cut the rest of the pine-apple into very small pieces. Stir it into the mixture and freeze.Pastry Book 155 Raspberry Water Ice 1 pint juice 1 pint sugar 1 pint water Juice of 2 lemons 1 table-spoon gelatine Follow directions for orange water ice. "Strawberry Punch 1 quart strawberries 2^ cups powdered sugar f cup sweet white wine or champagne llr cups water Put the strawberries in a dish and cover with the sugar. Let them stand for an hour. Put through a hair sieve. Add the wine and water. Put into a freezer. Stir till well mixed, then leave till frozen.Iced Puddings, Mousses, Parfaits, etc. PAGE Caramel Mousse . . . . .157 Chestnut Mousse . . . . .157 Frozen Fruit ..... 158 Nesselrode Pudding .... 158 Parfait (Chocolate). . . . .159 „ (Coffee) ..... 159 Strawberry Ice ..... 160 Strawberry Mousse . . . .160 Vanilla and Chocolate Souffle . . . 161 Cream Ice enclosed in a hot Souffle . . 161157 "Caramel Mousse 9 yolks of eggs | lb. powdered sugar l| pints milk 1 pint whipped cream Make a custard (see p. 15) of the yolks, milk and quarter a pound of sugar. Strain it and set to cool. Stir half a pound sugar over the fire in an iron saucepan until a rich brown. Add a little water and boil for three minutes. Beat the custard over ice for ten minutes. Add the syrup slowly and the whipped cream. Beat well together. Fill a mould with it. Cover with a sheet of paper and a lid. Pack in ice and salt. Leave for an hour. Chestnut Mousse 0 ozs. prepared chestnuts 6 ozs. powdered sugar 1 tea-spoon vanilla h pint whipped cream Boil, peel and pound sonic chestnuts. Put them through a fine sieve. Take six ounces of sifted chestnuts aud mix with the sugar and vanilla. Beat till smooth. Add the cream and more sugarThe Pudding and 158 if required. Pour into a mould. Cover with a lid and seal the joints with a paste of flour and water. Pack in ice and leave for one hour. ^Frozen Fruit 1 tin apricots or peaches 2 cups powdered sugar 1 quart water Cut the fruit in small pieces. Add the sugar and water. When the sugar is dissolved, freeze. One pint whipped cream can be added to the fruit when partly frozen. Any tinned or fresh fruit can be used. Apricots, peaches, pine-apple and strawberries are best. Nesselrode Pudding 4 ) chestnuts 4 yolks ^ cup powdered sugar \ pint milk | pint cream 1 tea-spoon vanilla f lb. shredded candied pine apple 4 tea-cup maraschino Make a custard of the yolks, milk and sugar (see p. 15). Boil, peel, pound and put through a fine sieve the chestnuts. Mix with the cold custardPastry Book 159 and vanilla and put in the freezer. When nearly firm add the fruit, cream and maraschino (this may be omitted). Beat well together and leave until frozen. Garnish with angelica and candied cherries. "Parfait (Chocolate) 1 pint milk 10 yolks h lb. powdered sugar f lb. chocolate 1 dessert-spoon vanilla b pint cream Make a custard of the milk, yolks and sugar (see p. 15). Melt the chocolate with a very little water. Add it to the custard. Put through a o fine sieve. Stir over ice till cold. Add the whipped cream and beat well together. Pack in ice and leave two hours. Parfait (Coffee) 1 pint cream 1 cup powdered sugar b cup strong clear coffee Mix together. Whip on ice. Take off the froth and put into a freezer or mould. Do not touch it. Leave for two hours.The Pudding and 160 "Strawberry Cream | lb. sugar 1 pint water 1 quart strawberries ^ pint whipped cream Boil the sugar and water for half an hour. Add the strawberries. Simmer gently for quarter of an hour. Take off the fire and cool. When cold put in a freezer and stir occasionally till frozen. When frozen stir in the cream, which can be slightly sweetened. ^Strawberry Mousse 1 lb. strawberries 1 cup powdered sugar It? pints cream Crush the strawberries and put them through a fine hair sieve. Put in an enamelled sauce-pan with a little sugar and stir continually over the fire till well mixed. Pour into a basin and set it on ice, stirring until it is cold. Whip the cream with the rest of the sugar. Mix with the fruit. Line a mould with paper. Fill it. Cover it with a round of paper and a lid, which should be sealed with a paste made of flour and water. Pack in ice and leave for an hour.Pastry Book L 161 * Vanilla and Chocolate Souffle 16 yolks of eggs 1 cup syrup 1 cup water 1 dessert-spoon vanilla 1 pint whipped cream Chocolate Beat the yolks, syrup (see p. 151) and water together thoroughly. Pass through a fine sieve. Put into a double boiler. Stir until thick but do not let it boil. Warm a bowl. Pour the custard into it. Add the vanilla. Beat for five minutes. Stir in the whipped cream and pour into a large mould. Pack in ice and leave for two hours. Uncover the mould and pour on to it a cup of cold melted chocolate flavoured with a little vanilla. Replace the cover and leave another two hours. Cream Ice Enclosed in a Hot Souffle Make a souffle of the required flavour in a large souffle dish. Have ready a cream ice, frozen stone hard, about four inches less in diameter than the souffle dish. When the souffle is nearly baked, take it out of the oven, removeThe Pudding Book 162 the brown top, and a little of the soft centre. Put in the ice, cover with the soft mixture and the brown cover and put back into the oven for a few moments. Considerable deftness and great quickness are necessary if this sweet is to be successful.Sugars VAGE Coloured Sugars . 164 Orange and Lemon Sugar . 164 Sugared Fruits 165164 Coloured Sugars On to some powdered sugar drop a few drops of any colouring. Stir well and quickly so that the sugar may be evenly coloured. When dry, crush between paper if necessary. Keep in a tin in a dry place. Orange and Lemon Sugar ^ lb. loaf sugar 3 oranges or lemons Pare off the yellow rind of oranges, tangerines or lemons very finely. Let it dry thoroughly. Pound it in a mortar with the sugar. Pass through a fine sieve and keep in a dry place. Or the rind may be rubbed off on lumps of sugar, which must then be dried and very finely crushed.Pastry Book Sugared Fruits White of egg Powdered sugar Strawberries, cherries, grapes, red or white currants Beat the white of an egg till frothy. Dip each fruit into it and then roll it in powdered sugar. Place on white paper and dry in a very slow oven. THE ENDIndex 167 Albemarle Pudding, 66. Almonds, to blanch, 4. „ to pound, 4. Almond Souffle, 62. „ Tartlets, 129. Apple and Apricot Char- lotte, 66. Apple Custard, 67. „ Pie, 137. Apples, Baked, 26. „ Stewed, 29. Apple and Tapioca Pudding, 7. Bain Marie, 3. Baked Apples, 26. „ Bananas, 26. Bavarian Cream, 98. Biscuit Paste, 127. Boiled Puddings, 2. Bread and Butter Pudding, 7. Bread Pudding, 8. „ and Bum Pudding, 68. Brown Bread Cream Ice, 147. Butter, How to beat, 5. Calf’s Foot Jelly, 91. Caramel Mousse, 157. Charlotte Kusse, 110. Chartreuse of Orange, 100. „ Straw-berries, 101. Cherry Pudding, 68. „ Water tee, 151. Chestnut Cream, 102. „ „ Ice, 148. „ Mousse, 157. Chocolate Bavarois, 103. „ Blanc Mange, 110. „ Cream Tartlets, 130. „ to melt, 3. „ Parfait, 159. „ Souffle, 55, 62, 63. Christmas Plum Pudding, 69, 70. Citron Puddings, 73. Claret Jelly, 92. Cocoanut Pie, 137. Coffee Cream Ice, 148. „ Parfait, 159. „ Souffle, 55. Coloured Sugars, 164. Cornflour Pudding, 111. Cranberry Jelly, 92. Cream and Fruit Tartlets, 131. „ Ices, 146-149. „ Ice with hot Souffle, 161.Index 168 Creams, 98-108. Cream Souffle, 64. „ Tartlets, 130. „ Whip, 112. ,, to whip, 3. Creme aux Fruits, 103. ,, Brftlee, 22. „ Hollondaise, 104. ,, Re liver see, 23. Currants, to clean, 2. Custard Pie, 138. Custards, Baked, 20-24. „ Boiled, 15-17. Ginger Pudding, 72. „ 113. Gooseberry Fool, 113. „ Pudding, 72. Grated Pine-apple, 27. Henriettes, 44. Italian Mousse, 73. Jelly Milk, 116. Jellies, 91-96. Danish Pudding, 112. Dutch Apple Cake, 70. King’s Souffle, 121. Fig Pudding, 71. Figs, Stewed, 30. Flaming Peaches, 27. Foam Omelet, 51. French Pancakes, 38. Friar’s Omelet, 71. Fritters, 42-47. Frozen Fruit, 158, „ Macedoine of Fruit, 151. ,, Punch, 152. Fruit Cream Ice, 148. „ Fritters, 43. „ Salad, 33. „ Stewed, 28. „ Tartlets, 132. „ Water Ice, 152. Garnish for Custards, 14' Gateau de Riz, 9. Gelatine, 3. „ Jelly, 91. Gelee Foueltee, 93. Lemon Cheesecakes, 132. „ Froth, 93. „ Pie, 138, 139. „ Souffle, 64, 114. ,, Sugar, 164. „ Water-Ice, 153. Macedoine of Fruit, Frozen, 151. Maraschino Jelly, 94. „ Punch, 153 „ Souffle, 56. Marmalade Pudding, 74. Mari ons a laCelestine, 114. Measuring, 1. Meringue for Puddings, 4. Meringues, 115. „ Chocolate, 111. Milk Jelly, 116. Mincemeat, 133. Miroton, 27. Mock Mincemeat, 141.Index 169 Mousse aux fruits givres, 116. Mousse a la Mangara, 74. Mousses, Frozen, 157. Nesselrode Pudding, 158. Noyau Cream, 105. Omelette Soufflee, 56. Omelets, 50-52. Orange Baskets, 94. „ Charlotte, 117. „ and Cocoanut Salad, 34. „ Cream, 105. „ Fritters, 44. „ Jelly, 94. „ Omelet, 51. „ Salad, 34. „ Sugar, 164. „ Tartlets, 133. „ Water-Ice, 154. Pain aux Fruits, 117. Palace Pudding, 75 Pancakes, 37-39. Parfaits, 159. Pastry, 125-127. Peaches, Stewed, 30. Pears, „ 31, 32. Pies, 137-141. Pine-apple Fritters, 45. „ Grated, 27. „ Meringue, 118. „ Pie, 141. „ and Rice Mould, 75. „ Salad, 34. „ Water-Ice, 154. Pines on Horseback, 118. Plain Rice Pudding, 10. Plum Pudding, 76. Portuguese Fritters, 45. Prune Jelly, 95. Queen of Puddings, 119. Raisins, to stone, 2. Raspberry Cream, 108. „ Water Ice, 155, Rhenish Cream, 106. Rhubarb Jelly, 95. Rice Cream, 9, 107. „ Pancakes, 39. „ Pudding with Apples, 10. „ Souffle, 11. Rum Omelet, 52. „ Tutti Frutti, 28. Sauces, 80-87. Souffle Fritters, 46. „ Frozen, 161. ,, Puddings, 62-64. „ Royal, 57. Souffles, 55-59. Spanish Cream, 120. Stewed Apples, 29. „ Figs, 30. „ Fruit, 28. „ Peaches, 30. „ Pears, 31, 32. ,, Prunes, 32. Strawberry Cream, 108. „ Cream - Ice, 149. „ Fritters, 47. „ Ice, 160. „ Mousse, 160. „ Punch, 155. Strawberries and Cream, 33.Index Strawberry Shortcake, 77 „ Souffle, 58. „ Sponge, 120. „ Tartlets, 134. Suet, to chop, 2. Sugared Fruits, 165. Sultanas, 2. Sweet Omelet, 50. Syrup, 151 Table of Measures, 1. Tapioca Pudding, 11, 12. Tartlets, 129-134. Tutti Frutti, 149. Vanilla and Chocolate Souffle, 16T. Vanilla Souffle, 58.PRINTED BT TURNBULL AND SPEARS, EDINBURGH