196 HEA HER Rise and retire at a fixed hour; take a gentle walk before break- fast ; and take your meals at the same hours daily. The less quantity of fermented liquors you drink the better. N othing conduces more to health and long life than abstinence and plain food, with due labour. Where water does not disagree, value the privilege, and continue it. Late hours and anxious pursuits exhaust the nervous system; there- fore avoid them as much as pos- sible. In order that digestion may take place, the food should be well chew- ed. The stomach will not deal with it in lumps. It must be tho- roughly masticated and well mixed with the saliva which flows into the mouth during mastication. Do without medicine if possible; hut in case of real indisposition, immediately consult a competent medical man. HEARTBURN.—Drink a pint of very cold water.—Tried.' Or, drink slowly decoction of camomile flowers. Or, eat four or five oysters.— Wesley. HEARTBURN.—“If acidity of the stomach occasions the heart- burn, absorbents are the proper medicines. Take 1 oz. of powder- ed chalk, i oz. of fine sugar, and i oz. of gum arabic may be mixed in a quart of water, and a tea-cup- ful of it taken when necessary. But the best absorbent is magnesia alba. It acts also as a purgative. This powder is not disagreeable; it may be taken in a cup of tea, or a glass of mint water/ Buchan. If it arises from wind, take a tca- Bpoonful of spirits of lavender, or the Neutralizing Mixture. HEARTBURN LOZENGES. .—Powdered lump sugar, 100 parts; prepared chalk, 15 parts; subcar- bonate of soda, 5 parts; mucilage to mix. HEARTBURN, Pills for.— Carbonate of ammonia, extract of gentian, of each half a drachm; mix, and divide into twelve pills; take two twice or thrice a day. HEARTBURN POWDER.— Quassia, powdered rhubarb, of each \ scruple; and calcined magnesia, 1 scruple. Mix, and make into 12 powders. Take 3 per day. Spanish liquorice has been found a very good palliative in heartburn. Neutralize the acid which produces heartburn; take of carbonate of soda, half a teaspoonful; half a teaspoonful of peppermint plant powdered, in a table-spoonful of brandy, and a little cold water; take it for a dose. HEAT, to moderate.—To mod- erate the intensity of heat during the summer, where slated or tiled roofs are in close proximity with bed-rooms; let the roof, (i. e. the slates) be whitewashed; and the temperature in the room under- neath, which before was almost insupportable, will be not only tolerable, but very agreeable. The materials to use are whiting, size, or thin glue, and a little linseed oil. This mixture has a good body, and wtll not be very soon washed off by rain. HEMLOCK LINIMENT. - Oil of Hemlock, oz.; Camphor, in gum, £ oz.; opium, £ oz.; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Mix. It is a first-rate rubefacient in inflam- matory rheumatism, gout, quinsy, inflamed breast, white swellings, &c. HERBS.—They make the best medicines, and the completest cures. For their Medical Proper- ties, see Robinson’s Herbal. HERBS. — For dyspepsia, or indigestion. Camomile, agri* mony, betony, thistle, (blessed,)