MAR 243 MAR MARMALADE CREAM. Take two table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade; add to it a quart of cream; a little, at first, for mincing the marmalade, a wine-glassful of brandy; 8 ozs. of ground loaf . sugar, and the juice of a lemon; whisk it for half an hour; and drain. Serve in custard glasses. MARMALADE, Currant. Take white, or red currants; press out the juice; add lemon, orange, or raspberry juice, and fine sugar, sufficient to sweeten and candy. Boil, and skim, till it becomes a transparent mass. Marmalade may be thus made of any other kind of fruit, and candied. It is a very delicious marmalade. A. N. i MARMALADE, Orawye.-Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind; boil fast till the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully; then put in a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds hav- ing been removed, and a pint of apple liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Lemon Marmalade will do in the same way; it is a very good and I elegant sweetmeat. MARMALADE, Quince.—Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar; to 4 lbs. of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, and have ready for 4 lbs. of quinces, when tender, by the following mode: lay them into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of wa- ter at the bottom, and pack them with a little sugar strewed be- tween; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour becomes red: then pour the fruit-syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a preserving pan; boil all together till the marmalade be completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving-ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as above, it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quin- ces in a jar, and squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as above: and dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. MARMALADE, Scotch,—Take 8 lbs. of Seville oranges, pare off the skins very thin so that there shall be little white; then cut the parings into strips, put them into a pan with water to cover them, and boil for an hour; then strain them through a sieve. Next quarter the oranges, and scrape out the pulps and j uice into a dish; the white skins, films and seeds must be thrown away; place the whole in a pan with 8 lbs of sugar; let the whole boil half an hour, skim, and pot for use. It is not necessary that they should all be Seville oranges, as a few if mixed with the common sorts are sufficient to give the ne- cessary flavour. MARMALADE, Transparent- ly beautiful.—Take 3 lbs. of bitter oranges; pare them as you would potatoes; cut the skin into fine shreds, and put them into a mus- lin bag; quarter all the oranges; press out the juice. Boil the pulp and shreds in three quarts of water 2| hours, down to three pints; strain through a hair sieve. Then put six pounds of sugcr to the li- quid, the juice, and the shreds, the outside of two lemons grated, and the insides squeezed in; add one-pennyworth of isinglass. Sim- mer all together slowly for 15 or 20 minutes. Bgr" The sweet oranges make