439 VUL VOM Or, to every gallon of water, put 1 lb. of coarse sugar. Boil_ the mixture and skim. When it is cool as beer when fermented, put to it a warm toast rubbed over with yeast; let it ferment 24 hours. Put it into a cask in a very warm place, or where the sun may shine upon it. In three months it will be fit for use. VINEGAR OF ROSES. Take of red roses, half a pound; strong vinegar, half a gallon. In- fuse in a close vessel for several weeks, in a gentle heat, afterwards strain off the liquor. Used as an embrocation for head-ache, &c. VIOLET LOZENGES.—Orris powder, 1 ounce; gum arabic, 1 ounce; white sugar, 2 pounds. Make into a thick paste with the following: cochineal, 1 drachm; fater, 1 quart. Macerate two days. VIRGIN WHITE WAX.— White wax, 3 parts; cakestearine, 2 parts ; mucilage, 1 part. Melt and stir well; when nearly cold, form into cakes as before. VOICE, to improve.—See Tar. VOLATILE LINIMENT.— Mix together equal portions of spi- rit of hartshorn and sweet oil. It is the domestic Liniment for sore throat, pained limbs, stiff and ach- ing joints, &c.—The addition of oil of hemlock, or laudanum and tincture of cayenne, will be a great improvement. VOMITING.—It is generally preceded by the sensation of nau- sea and sickness, and a disposition to faint. Endeavour to ascertain the particular condition on which it depends. If it arises from some irritating substance in the stomach, as bile, then the stomach should be thoroughly cleansed. Take a beer-glassful of warm water, and about one hour afterwards an effer- vescing draught, in which drop a very little tincture of cayenne.— The Neutralizing Mixture is an appropriate remedy; also the Black Draught, or one of the aperients, page 20, 21.—A mustard poultice over the stomach, and ten drops of laudanum in a little brandy and water, tend to settle the stomach. VOMITING BLOOD.— The escape of blood by vomiting is care- fully to be distinguished from the expectoration of blood from the lungs. If from the stomach, the blood will be dark and clotted, and mixed with the contents of the stomach. The blood from the lungs is a bright red, often frothy and mixed with mucus. It is generally preceded by chilliness, nausea, heaviness, and pain at the stomach. It is followed by great weakness, and from that the danger chiefly arises. The patient should be placed in bed immediately, and be perfectly quiet. Place the feet and hands hi warm water, and apply mustard plasters to the calves of the legs. The following draught may be very serviceable:— Infusion of roses, 12 drachms; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 drops ; syrup of roses, 1 drachm ; tincture of opium, 10 drops. Mix. Or, take acetate of lead, 3 grains ; pu- rified opium, 1 grain; extract of hemlock, 10 grains. Make 3 pills, one to be taken twice a day; drink after them iced lemon-juice and water, or vinegar and water. Use the vapour bath, if the person is cold and chilly, and afterwards ap- ply hot bricks saturated in vine- gar and water to the feet and sides. If there be constipation, give aperients, pages 20, 21; or a mild injection. Sometimes the vomiting of blood proceeds from the retention of the menses. See Menses, retention of. VULNERARIES.—Medicines healing wounds.