INK Nurses ought never to conceal any | accident befalling a child. All j violent impressions on the senses and bodies of children should bo l avoided. It is injurious to toss I them about rapidly and violently j in their arms. Loud crying, or f shouting in their ears, presenting ij' glittering objects to then- view, i and sudden and too great a degree i' of light; such practices are very [ injurious. INFECTION, to prevent. l Sprinkle a room, &c. with a solu- l tion of chloride of lime; or sprinkle 1 dissolved camphor in spirits of j wine upon your handkerchief; it [ may be diluted with acetic acid. G Or, smoke this mixture :—To- e bacco, 4 ozs.; cascarilla bark, J oz.; jj: unburnt coffee, ground, 1 oz.; mix, | and smoke occasionally. INFECTION, to prevent.—See ,» Disinfectants. INFLAMMATION oftlieBow- i els. See Intestines, Diarrhoea, i Boivels. INFLUENZA.—See Catarrh. j INK.—This will keep for very 0 many years. Boil 4 ozs. of log- it wood chips in a gallon of water 1 for 1 o minutes, and pour it boiling ll hot upon 12 ozs. of galls coarsely ji powdered. Stir during four or five * days. Pour off the liquor clear, I and add to it 4 ozs. each of copper- i as and gum arabic. To prevent 'I moulding, add bruised cloves, or u oil of cloves. Another.—Water, 1 quart; best [A. Aleppo galls in coarse powder, 4 1 ozs., and 1 oz. each of rasped log- bi wood, green vitriol or copperas, ■ jj and gum arabic. Stir or shake I four or five times a day, for 12 4 or 14 days, when it will be fit for use. Vinegar instead of water makes a ft deeper coloured ink, but it is not a fit for steel pens. Another Receipt for a Gallon.— U Aleppo galls, 1 lb., slightly brui- INK 203 sed; rain-water, 1 gallon, nearly boiling. Let them stand mixed together for 14 days. Then add 4 ozs. of green copperas; 4 ozs. of logwood chips; 1 oz. each of alum and sugar-candy, and 4 ozs. of gum arabic. Cover over, and agitate for 14 days in a warm place. Strain,, and bottle, pouring a little brandy on the top of the ink in each bottle. INK, invisible.—See Sympa- thetic Ink. INK, Permanent.—Best galls, and logwood, each 6 ozs.; copper- as, 3 ozs.; gum arabic, 1J oz.; pomegranate bark, 1 oz. (sold by druggists); rain water, cold, 3 pints; cloves, 2 or 3 ozs. Stir for several times a day for 2 or 3 weeks. INK, to erase.—Press a little emery paper over the finger, and rub out the ink-spot, or writing, or wrong figure. This method is better than that of the erasing knife. INK, to prevent moulding.— Put a few cloves into each bottle. Or add to the ink before boil- ing, spirits of wine and oil of cloves. INK, to take out of marble.— Unslaked lime, and strong soap ley; make it thick, and lay it on with a painter’s brush; let it re- main on a week, wash it off, and apply again, and wash it off with soft soap and water. INK POWDER. — Copperas, four ounces ; nutgalls, powdered, six ounces; common salt, three quarters of an ounce; powdered gum arabic, one ounce and a half. Mix and keep dry. A small quantity of this powder, stirred up with a table-spoonful or two of hot water, will make good ink, ready for use in a few minutes, and will keep good for years in any climate. INK SPOTS, to remove.—Ap- ply a solution of salts of lemon, or wet with strong acetic acid. Or, apply a solution of muriate of N