BUT 86 BUR in the same way; or in the ab- sence of milk use bread and water till you can get the linseed oil and lime water. BURNS AND SCALDS.—If any part of the body be scalded or burnt, it should be placed in a vessel of new milk as soon as pos- sible, and be kept there till the fire is drawn out. There must be an abundance of new milk obtained where the greater part of the body is burnt; and if a bath of milk cannot be got, the patient must be laid on the first convenient place, and soft cloths steeped in milk must be continually applied, till the fire is drawn out. This has been known to give instant relief to a man who fell into a copper of boiling wort, when the skin peeled off with his clothes. Or, a few raw potatoes are to be peeled, and finely beaten in a mor- tal- ; add a drachm or two of lauda- num ; apply to the affected parts, like a poultice. It is very efficaci- ous in the cure of burns or scalds, and other inflamed parts. An eminent surgeon in the army says,—“ Opiates are excellent things, and should be given to re- lieve pain; but the stimulants must not be forgotten. The shock of the burns depresses the whole system, and laudanum, though it relieves the pain, is also depressing in its effects, I would, therefore, (as in accidents of this kind time is most precious) recommend the following mixtures to be given at once:—Laudanum, 30 drops ; sul- phuric aether, 40 drops ; brandy, a tablespoonful, in a wine glassful of warm water. This should be given directly, and repeated in an hour’s time if the pain is not subdued. This treatment should be followed up by beef tea and other concen- trated forms of nourishment. Of course the ever-present remedy of covering the bums freely with flour from a flour dredge, and ap- plying cotton wool above the layer of flour, must not be neglected. BURN OR SCALD.—Imme- diately plunge the part in cold water, and keep it there for some time.—Or electrify it immediately. —Or if the part cannot be dipped, apply a cloth four times doubled, dipped in cold water, changing it when it becomes warm.—Or a bruised onion.—Or mix lime-wa- ter and sweet oil to the thickness of cream. Apply with a feather. Most effectual.—Wesley. Or, take a piece of thick brown paper, dipped in the best sallad oil; then set the paper on fire upon a common plate, upon which will re- main a deposit of oil. Apply this oil to the bum. Or, put on the burn or scald a covering of flour. Or, cover with treacle, and dust on flour. Or, cover with the white of egg. Or, apply whiting or chalk, and linseed oil. Or, apply a cloth dipped in a solution of alum. BUTTER, to make.—In Swe- den, they thus make it:—Put the cream, either sweet or sour, into a bag of sufficient fineness to prevent its passing through, and then bury the bag four feet in the earth, carefully covering it up. In twen- ty-four or twenty-five hours, on taking up the bag, the cream will be found to be converted into ex- cellent butter. BUTTER, to make.—During summer, skim the milk when the sun has not heated the dairy; at that season it should stand for butter twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty-eight in win- ter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot chum daily, change it into scalded fresh pots; but never omit churning