418 TON TON with bread crumbs, salt, pepper, butter, and a cooked onion. Sim- mer long. Add eggs before done. TONGUE, to boil. If the tongue be a dry one, steep in wa- ter all night. Boil it three hours. If you prefer it hot, stick it with cloves. Clear off the scum, and add savoury herbs when it has boiled two hours ; but this is op- tional. Rub it over with the yolk of an egg; strew over it bread crumbs; baste it with butter; set it before the fire till it is of a light brown. When you dish it up, pour a little brown gravy, or port wine sauce mixed the same way as for venison. Lay slices of currant jelly round it. TONGUE, to eat cold.—Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay-salt, pep- per, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a fortnight; then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw would go through it. The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and also makes a fine addition to the flavour of omelets. TONGUE, to pickle for boiling. —Cut off the root, but leave a lit- tle of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day: then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about half as much of saltpetre; rub it well in, and do so every day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if on- ly turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks with- out being too salt. When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender; allow five hours; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer kept after drying the higher it will be: if hard, it may require soaking three or four hours. Another way.—Clean as above: for two tongues allow an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of salts of runella ; rub them well. In two ays, after well rubbing, cover them with common salt, turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them, and rub over them bran, and smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. TONGUE, to pot. Rub the tongue with 1 oz. of saltpetre, and 4 ozs. of brown sugar; let it lie 2 days; then boil it till it is quite tender. Take off the skin and side bits; then cut the tongue in very thin slices, and beat it well, with 1 lb. of butter, mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Then pot, and pour over it clarified butter. Hu. TONGUES, to salt. Scrape the tongue, and dry clean with a cloth ; salt with common salt, and J oz. of saltpetre to every tongue; lay them in a deep pot, and turn them every day for 9 days. Salt them again, and let them lie 6 days longer. Take up; dry; flour them, and hang up. TONGUE, to stew. Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel; when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy; season with soy, mushroom ketchup,cayenne, poun- ded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both this receipt and the last, the roots must be ta- ken off the tongues before salting, but some fat left. TONICS.—Medicines strength- ening the system in general.