341 QUI QUI QUIN’S FISH SAUCE.—Half a pint of mushroom pickle, the same of walnut, six long anchovies, pounded, six cloves of garlick, three of them pounded; half a spoonful of cayenne pepper; put them into a bottle, and shake them well before using. It is also good i with beef steaks. QUINSY.—This disease occurs principally in spring and autumn, when vicissitudes of heat and cold are frequent. It affects especially the young and sanguine, and a disposition to it is often acquired by frequent attacks. Symptoms.—It commences with an unusual sense of tightness in the throat, particularly on swal- 3 lowing, which is often effected with J difficulty and pain. On inspection, ) some tumefaction and redness of the fauces may be perceived, which ' shortly spreads over the tonsils, uvula, and soft palate, attended with a troublesome clamminess of the mouth, fever, headache, de- lirium, &c. In desperate cases, the tongue and tonsils are so much swollen as to prevent deglutition, and even so as to affect respiration, that the patient is often obliged to be supported in an erect posture, to prevent suffocation. The in- flammation generally attacks one tonsil first, which in a day or two it sometimes leaves and affects the other, and not unfrcquently quits them both suddenly, and flies to ii the lungs. Causes.—It is generally caused by the external application of cold air, particular lyabout the neck. Whatever violently stimulates the fauces, in a plethoric habit, especi- ally, as acrid food, poisons, &c., may produce it. Treatment.—As the inflamma- tion, from the delicate structure of the parts, soon advances to sup- puration, active means should be speedily employed to disperse it. For this purpose the patient should take a full dose of the Aperient Mixture, and after its operation, the Saline Mixture. One of the most effectual reme- dies is an emetic. This should be given as soon as the symptoms ap- pear, and repeated as often as necessary. The throat should be steamed with a strong decoction of tansy, wormwood, hops, and camomile flowers, boiled in vinegar and water. Put these into a large pitcher, over which place a funnel, that the patient may inhale the steam for 15 minutes, and repeat it every two hours until the urgent symptoms are gone. Afterwards heat the herbs and bind them on the neck. A vapour bath is also of the greatest service, benefiting the whole system, and the throat es- pecially. Gargle the throat with a decoction of lobelia and a little gum kino. The steam of hemp- seed is said to be valuable in quin- sey. If the patient is constipated, give an aperient. When the pain- ful symptoms begin to subside, apply the Rheumatic Liquid warm to the throat, as warm and as long as the patient can bear it. Gargle the throat occasionally with a de- coction of sage, hyssop, lobelia, catechu, or kino, with a little borax. Do this frequently. Re- peat the aperients when necessary, and the feet bathed in warm water and soap. Let the food, if any can be taken, be very simple. Give no spirits, no stimulants, and nothing cold. Hydropathy is very useful in quin- >ey. Dip a piece of cloth, in the form of a bandage, in cold water, wring it out, and wrap it round the throat, and over it a dry ban- dage. Repeat when hot and dry. In sore throat, black currant jelly