364 RUS SAC the curd, and put it into a basin. Beat it well up with six eggs; season with nutmeg, and beat it up with a whisk; add flour to make it as thick as batter; add fine sugar, and fry quick. RUE, GARDEN.—It is very serviceable for approaching blind- ness, caused by disease of the optic nerve. It is a great disin- fectant. In sprains, injury of the joints, rheumatic paralysis of the joints, in bed sores, even if broken and ulcerated, it is of immense service. It is best to buy the Tincture of the Homoeopathic chemists. See Robinson s Herbal. RUM SHRUB.—Rum, 1 pint; orange and lemon juice, of each a wine-glassful; orange and lemon peel, -j- oz.; sugar, 1 oz.; dissolve in 1| pint of water. A little tar- taric acid may be added to give it acidity. RU SK S.—Beat seven eggs well, and mix with \ a pint of new milk, in which have been melted 4 ozs. of butter; add to it a J lb. of yeast, and 3 ozs. of sugar, and put them by degrees into as much flour as will make a very light paste, like a batter ; let it rise before the fire half an hour ; then add some more flour, to make it a little stifler. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about 5 or 6 inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Note.—The cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea; or, with carraways to eat cold. RUST, to remove from iron.— Pound glass to a fine powder: having nailed some strong woollen cloth upon a board, lay upon it a strong coat of gum-water, and sift thereon some of the powderedglass: let it dry; repeat this operation three times, and, when the lust covering of powdered glass is dry, j you may easily rub ofi' the rust I from iron with the cloth thus pre- I pared. RU ST, to prevent.—Lard, free 1 from salt, 1 lb. ; camphor, 1 oz.; I black lead powder, and dragon’s I blood, finely powdered, of each, 2 I drachms ; melt the same on a slow fire, until it is dissolved, and let it I cool for use. If rusty iron be rubbed with a mixture of boiled oil and red lead, 1 on a warm day, or in a warm room, I it will restrain the rusting process. I SACHETS, perfumed. — Make j ornamented bags, or packets, and I insert cotton wool, and the follow- J ing scents, as you please, vizf orris root, 2 ozs.; calamus, 1 oz.; cloves, 2 drachms; dry bergamot, I j 1 oz.; benzoin, 4 drachms; reduce I to impalpable powder, and mix in- . timately. Or, dried rose leaves, 8 ozs.; I cloves, 4 drachms; nutmegs, 4 drachms. Or, orris root, 6 ozs.; dry orange I flowers, and rose leaves, 16 ozs.;* storax, 2 ozs.; dry bergamot, 1 oz. 1 Powder well, and sieve. Sprinkle I over the whole a few drops of oil I of bergamot, and otto of roses. > Keep close. SACK CREAM.—Boil a pint I of raw cream, the yolk of an egg j well beaten, two or three spoon-J fuls of white wine, sugar, and leni- J , on peel; stir it over a gentle fire 1 till it be as thick as rich cream,® j and afterwards till cold; then serve M j it in glasses, with long pieces of H dry toast. SACK MEAD.—To every gal- ■ Ion of water put 4 lbs. of honey, 1 and boil it threo quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To m every gallon add 1 oz. of hops; then boil it half an hour, and let J it stand till next day ; put it into fl