SOU SOR 396 nurse’s remedy is good, “Putyour stocking round your neck going to bed.” But I have found a piece of new flannel quite as beneficial, if put warm round the neck. The following gargle is useful either for ulcerated or common sore throat. Make a strong solution of alum to every half pint of which add two table-spoonfuls of port wine; gar- gle the throat several times a day. In ulcerated sore throats, it is safest to have the ulcers touched with caustic immediately on their appearance. Or, gargle with a mixture of yeast and milk, and take a wine-glassful of good yeast once or twice a day. Sage and vinegar are generally recommend- ed for a gargle. It is best to add a little salt, and from 15 to 30 drops of laudanum. Or, apply a cold water cloth, wringed out, to the throat, covered with a dry flannel. In the first stages of the disease, a mild emetic will be useful. In bed apply to the throat a bag of hops saturated with hot vinegar and a little salt, or camomile flow- ers moistened with hot vinegar, and 20 or 30 drops of laudanum, —The remedies under Quinsy are appropriate here. Apply to the feet and sides hot bricks covered with vinegar cloths. If constipa- ted, take an aperient, and after- wards the Composition Powder. SORE THROAT.-Five spoon- fuls of the syrup of elderberry, mix with one spoonful of honey, and as much powdered sal prunella as will lie on a shilling. Take a tea- spoonful frequently. SORREL, to stew.—Wash the son-el, and put it into a silver ves- sel, or stone jar, with no more wa- ter than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can, and when done enough, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. SOUFFLE of Apple and. Eice. —Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon-peel, nnd a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry, then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish ; having egg- ed the dish, where it is put to make it stick well. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of ap- ples ; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a beau- tiful colour. SOUP, a la Jardinere..—Take some carrots and turnips; cut them an inch long and thickness of a penny piece, with a little parsley root. Boil gently in some good stock, till quite tender, with leeks and two heads of celery tied to- gether; these must be taken out when serving the soup. Boil ten- der 12 onions whole ; season with salt and pepper. SOUP, a la Reine.—Take the breasts of three fowls, skewer them, put over them a thin slice of lard, cover them with paper, and put them upon the spit or into a stew- j pan, which must be covered with slices of ham, veal, and an onion, with two or three pared carrots and a bunch of seasoned parsley; 1 cover it lightly with thin slices of lard, and afterwards with two or three rounds of buttered paper, that they may not take any colour; put in two or three spoonfuls of consomme; make them boil upon the fire, or put them into an oven; let them cook twenty minutes; take them up and let them cool a strain the soup through a gauze search, make a panade with it, hash the breasts very fine, put them in a mortar, and pound them with twenty' sweet and two bitter al-