MUS MUT 2(52 It is employed as a stimulant; it often inflames tlio part, and raises blisters, but not so perfectly as cantlinrides. Sometimes they aro applied to the solos of the foot, in the low state of acute diseasos, for raising the pulse, and relieving the head. The white mustard acts not only on the bowels, but also on the skin. It wonderfully strengthens the whole line of the alimentary canal, improves the appetite, the diges- tion, and promotes sleep, and the health generally. When the seed is used to remove constipation, take it an hour before breakfast fasting. A small table- spoonful is sufficient, i MU STARD, to malce.—Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by degrees with boiling water to a proper thickness, rubbing it per- fectly smooth; add a little salt, and a little tincture of cayenne, and keep it in a small jar close covered, and put only as much in- to the glass as will be used soon, which should bo wiped daily round the edges. MUSTARD WHEY. — Milk and water, of each, 1 pint; bruised mustardseed,l|oz.; boiltogether till the cur£ bo separated; strain. This is a good way of giving mus- tard. It warms and invigorates the stomach, and promotes the secretions; it is very useful in nervous disorders, chronic rheu- matism, palsy, dropsy, &o. A tea-cupful several times a day. MUSTY CASKS, to sweeten. —Throw in burning coals, and then cold water. Public brewers wash their casks with lime and water, mixed nearly to the consist- ence of paint; remain till dry, and then wash well with water. MUSTY FLOUR.—It may be restored by mixing with 15 lbs. of flour, 1 oz. of magnesia. Leaven and bake in the usual way. The loaves will rise well, be spongy and light, and whiter than bread made in the usual way, and have an excellent tasto. MUTTON, to choose.—Choose it by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young ; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age; but this only holds with wether-mutton: the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Ram mutton is very strong- flavoured; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. MUTTON, to grill a breast of. —Score a breast of mutton in dia- monds, and rub it over with the