BLE BLA 67 BLAIS C-MAN GE, Arrow-root. —Put two tea-cupfuls of arrow- root to a quart of milk. Flavour it with an ounce of sweet almonds, and fifteen or sixteen bitter, blanched and pounded; or with noyeau. Moisten the arrow-root with a little cold milk, and pour to it the boiling milk, stirring all the time. Then put it in the saucepan, and boil it a minute or two, still stirring. Dip the moulds in cold water. Turn it out when cold. BLANC-MANGE, Isinglass.- One ounce of Isinglass dissolved in 1 pint of boiling milk, and fla- voured with bitter almonds, lemon- peel, &c. If boiled for some time together, it will be fit for mould- ing. Stir occasionally while cool- ing. It is an excellent diet for an invalid. BLANC-MANGE, Osivego.— Four tablespoonfuls or three oun- ces of Oswego Prepared Corn to one quart of milk. Dissolve the com to some of the milk. Put into the remainder of the milk, four ounces of sugar, a little salt, a piece of lemon rind, or cinnamon stick, and heat to near boiling. Then add the mixed com, and boil (stirring it briskly) four minutes: take out the rind, and pour into a mould or cup, and keep until cold. When turned out, pour round it any kind of stewed or preserved fruits, or a sauce of milk and sugar. BLANC-MANGE, RICE. Swell four ounces of rice in water; drain and boil it to a mash in good milk, with sugar, a bit of lemon- peel, and a stick of cinnamon. Take care it does not burn, and when quite soft pour it into cups, or into a shape dipped into cold water. When cold turn it out, garnish with currant jelly, or any red preserved fruit. Serve with cream or plain custard. BLANC-MANGE, RICE. Steep a tablespoonful of rice in £ pint of cold milk for eight hours, adding more milk as it dries up, to keep it moist and soft. Boil half an hour. Flavour with almonds, or lemon-peel, cinnamon, or nut- meg. When the rice becomes pulp, place it in moulds till cool, 'when it will turn out. BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. —Use wheaten flour; it forms a good styptic; snuff it up the nose. Tighten the garters; apply liga- tures to the arms, and put the feet into warm water, to bring the blood downwards. To apply a cold wet cloth to the privities is effectual. When it arises from constipation, the bowels should be moved im- mediately. Or plug the nostrils up with lint steeped in strong vin- egar, and apply cloths dipped in cold water. The application of ice to the back, temples, &c. is also serviceable. Or dissolve two scruples of Nitre in half a pint of water, and take a cupful every hour. Or apply to the neck be- hind, and on each side, a cloth dip- ped in cold water. Or wash the temples, nose, and neck, with vin- egar. Or snuff up vinegar and water. Or foment the legs and arms with it. Or dissolve an ounce of powdered alum in a pint of vinegar; dip a cloth in it, and apply it to the temples, steeping the feet in warm water.—Wesley. BLEEDING OF A WOUND. —Make two or three tight liga- tures toward the lower part of each joint: slacken them gradually. Or, apply tops of nettles bruised. -—Or, strew on it the ashes of a linen rag dipped in sharp vinegar and burnt. Or, take ripe puff balls, break them warily, and save the powder. Apply it to the wound, and bind it on. This will stop it speedily. Or, take two