173 FUE FUN Dry in the sun. Or, saturate the cloth with a little water, and i hold the part over a lighted match, at a little distance. The spots will be removed by sulphureous gas. FRUIT TART.—Spread puff paste with a rolling pin; cut a piece the size of the dish, and out of the trimmings cut some strips; brush the edge of the dish with egg-wash and stick the strips on it: then put the fruit into the dish with sugar and a little water; roll the paste on the rolling pin and lay it over the fruit. Before you put the paste on brush the strips with egg-wash to make them stick. "When you have trimmed the dish all round brush white of egg over the tart and sift sugar over it: i then dip the paste brush into water and shake it over the tart. Bake it properly and serve up cold. FRUMENTY.—To a quart of ready boiled wheat put two quarts of new milk, and a J lb. of cur- rants, or raisins, boil and stir till done; beat the yolks of 3 eggs, a little nutmeg, with four spoonfuls of milk; add this to the wheat; stir over the fire a little; then sweeten. FUEL,c/(C(7j>?.—One bushel of small coal or saw-dust, or both mixed together, two bushels of sand, one and a half bushels of clay, made into halls, or bricks, and allowed to set firmly, will sup- ply an excellent fuel, and effect a great saving in coals. FUEL to save.—Take 4 lbs. of (i chalk in lumps, not above | lb. | each. Make a clear fire of coal, and 1 place the lumps of chalk in the h grate, as coal is laid. The chalk ii becomes red hot, so as to be scarce- > ly distinguishable from burning '> cinders. A few ashes or small coal thrown lightly on from tim e to time, ' will keep up a clear bright fire all i day. The same chalk may be used three or four days, when it becomes lime, and manure for gardens or allotments, or for whitewashing. Half-a-peck of coal used thus with chalk, will give a capital fire for fourteen hours. The saving in coal is one-half. In grates the chalk should be kept behind, and coals in front; because chalk will not burn unless it has coal or heat on all sides of it. FULMINATING SILVER.— Put into a small-necked bottle, resting on a little sand, one part of fine silver filings and three parts of nitro-muriatic-acid. When the silver is dissolved, pour the solu- tion into a glass, add five times the quantity of water, then take spirit of sal-ammoniac, and pour it into the solution drop by drop, until the silver is precipitated to the bottom; decant the clear liquor, and wash it several times in warm waters, dry and place it on paper, to absorb the moisture. If a grain of this powder is put into an iron spoon, and exposed to the flame of a candle, it will explode with a loud report. The crackers are made with this powder, a small quantity being placed in a bit of paper with a pea and a bit of sand twisted up. FUNERAL BISCUITS. — Take twenty-four eggs, three pounds of flour, and three pounds of lump sugar grated, which will make forty-eight finger biscuits for a funeral. FUNERAL BUNS. Take two stones of flour, one pound of butter, and one pound of sugar, rubbed together, three pounds of currants, ginger, seeds, cinnamon, and a little rose-water, mixed up with milk. The above will make forty-eight cakes, at threepence per cake, each weighing one pound before they are baked. Make them round, and bake them a fine brown. They will take one pint of yeast.