395 SOL SOL done enough,put in the dish ; strain the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour; pour the sauce over. Garnish with horse radish and with lemon. SOLES, broiled.—Take two or three soles, divide them from the hack bone, and take off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll; small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover i them with crumbs. Do the egg i over them again, and then put more crumbs; and fry them a beautiful colour in lard, or do them in the oven. SOLES, to fricassee.—Cut the flesh from the bones ; cut it long- ways, and then across, so that each fish may make 8 pieces; put the hones (and head if you like) into a stew-pan with a pint of water, sweet herbs, onion, pepper, mace, salt, a crust of bread, and a little lemon peel; cover, and boil till half wasted. Strain, and put it into the stew-pan with the fish; 1 add half a pint of sherry, a little chopped parsley, a few cut mush- ; rooms, grated nutmeg, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Place over a slow fire, and shake till the fish are enough. SOLES, to fry.—Take what soles are necessary ; gut and skin them; cut them down the back ; draw the blade of the knife along the fins to separate the flesh ; when Iready to serve dip them in milk; shake a little flour over, and fry them over a good fire ; when done and of a fine colour drain them up- on a clean cloth; dish upon a napkin ; send whole lemons to the table with them. SOLES, to fry.—Dip them in ,2gg, after having cleaned them, and cover with fine crumbs of bread. Set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a good quantity of fresh lard or dripping; boil, and immediately slip the fish into it; do them of a fine brown. SOLES, stewed. Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c., lay the fish in a stew-pan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a dessert-spoonful of Jam- aica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy or port (cyder may do) ; simmer close covered: when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour, shake it, and let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse radish and lemon. Carp may be stewed the same way. SOLES to souse.—Cut the soles on the white side; but not too deep; boil them well in sherry wine, and a little water, and vinegar; season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace; let the liquid just cover them; when it boils, put in the soles, and winter savory, sweet marjoram, sage, thyme, sliced onions, or shalots; when they are boiled enough, set them by to cool. Hu. SOLE PIE.—Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling sized ones will do, and half a hun- dred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some but- ter. When the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream. SOKE THROAT. The old