202 HYD HYD HYDROGEN GAS, to make.— Procure granulated zinc, put it in- to a bottle, and pour over it 1 pint oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid) to 5 or 6 pints of water; to collect the gas you must have a pipe inserted through the cork leading to a nneumatic trough or bladder. HYDROPHOBIA. See Bite of a Mad Bog. HYDROPHOBIA. — Immedi- ately wash the bitten part with clear water; then take good to- bacco, (leaf tobacco, if possible; if not, strong manufactured cut tobacco) and make a suitable poul- tice for the place, changing it three or four times a day for a week. This effectually absorbs every thing poisonous A strong decoction of the roots of the white ash will cure the bite of a mad dog. At Ulina, inPriula, aman suffering under the agonising tor- tures of hydrophobia, was cured by draughts of vinegar given him by mistake. A physician at Padua hearing of it, tried the same reme- dy upon a patient at the hospital, giving 1 lb. of vinegar in the morning, another at noon, and a third at sunset, and the man was speedily and perfectly cured. CURE roil HYDROPHOBIA —Dr. Buisson, of Lyons, claims to have discovered a remedy. In at- tending a female patient in the last stage of canine rabies, the doctor imprudently wiped his hands with a handkerchief impregnated with her saliva. He had a slight abrasion on the index finger of the left hand, and confident in his own curative system, the doctor merely washed the part with wa- ter. However, he was fully aware of the imprudence he had commit- ted, and gives the following ac- count of the matter afterwards:— “Believing that the malady would not declare itself until the 40th day, and having numerous patients to visit, I put off from day to day the application of my remedy— that is to say, vapour baths. The ninth day, being in my cabinet, I felt all at once a pain in the throat, and a still greater one in the eyes. My body seemed so light that I felt as if I could jump to a prodigious height, or that, if I threw myself out of a window I could sustain myself in the air. My hair was so sensitive that I ap- peared able to count each separ- ately without looking at it. Sahva kept continually forming in the mouth. Any movement of the ah- inflicted great pain on me, and I was obliged to avoid the sight of brilliant objects; I had a contin- ual desire to run and bite, not hu- man beings, but animals, and all that was near me. I drank with difficulty, and the sight of water distressed me more than the pain in the throat. I believe that, by shutting the eyes, any one suffer- ing under hydrophobia can always drink. The fits came on every five minutes, and 1 then felt the pain start from the index finger and run up the nerves to the shoulder. In this state, thinking that my course was preservative and not curative, I took a vapour bath, not with the intention of cure, but of suffocating myself. When the bath was at a heat of 52 Centigrade (93 3 5 Fahrenheit), all the symptoms disappeared, as if by magic, and I have never felt any thing more of them. I have attended more than 80 persons bitten by mad animals, and I have not lost a single case.” When a person has been bitten by a mad dog he must for seven successive days take a vapour bath a la Russe, as it is called, of 57 to 63 degs. This is the preventive remedy. When the disease is de-