WIL 447 WIN WHITLOW.—This is an in- flammation of the fingers, thumb, or hand, and is very painful. It is often situated at the root of the nail. The pain is attended with throb- bing, swelling, and inflammation. It gradually progresses to suppu- ration. Steam the whole hand with bit- ter herbs for 30 or 40 minutes; bathe it frequently in strong hot ley water. The steaming must not be dispensed with. Apply a poultice of linseed and slippery elm, with a little salt and brandy. The formation of matter is indi- cated by a small white spot in the centre of the swelling. When this appears, open it with the point of a large needle or probe, that the matter may escape. Repeat if necessary. If proud flesh ap- pears, apply the vegetable caustic or chloride of potass, diluted. A poultice of powdered hops is very effectual to relieve pain. Attend to the general health, by giving aperients, tonics, and nutritious cooling diet. WHITLOW.—Cut a hole in a lemon, and wear it on the finger like a thimble; the whitlow must be encased in the lemon.—See Felon. WILD DUCKS, Widgeon, $c. —They should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up; put a good gravy under them, and serve with shalot-sauce. WILD FOWL, to roast.—The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame; they should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish; and when the breast is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping-pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this; then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter. WIND IN THE STOMACH.— See Flatulency.—Take oil of juni- per, tincture of myrrh, lavender water, sweet nitre, equal quantity of each: shake them in a bottle. Dose:—One teaspoonful in a cup of cold water. The above is a dose for an adult. Or, take a large handful of feverfew, and cummin seeds and ginger, 1 oz. of each to three quarts of water; boil to three pints. Add a little tincture of cayenne. Dose—three or four wine-glassfuls a day. WINDSOR PUDDING-Shred J lb. of suet very fine; grate into it j lb. of French roll, a little nut- meg, and the rind of a lemon; add \ lb. of chopped apples; | lb. of currants; \ lb. of good reisins, stoned, and chopped, a glass of rich sweet wine, and five eggs beaten, with a little salt. Mix all thoroughly together, and boil it in a basin, or mould for three hours. Sift fine sugar over it when sent to table, and pour wine sauce into the dish. WINDSOR SOAP is merely the best white soap melted, and scented with oil of carraway, and put into moulds. WINE, English White.—Boil 40 lbs. of sugar in 14 gallons of water, twenty minutes, taking the scum as it rises. Put it into a tub, and when nearly cold put in 8 lbs. of raisins chopped; and when cold, add two gallons of strong ale, when the ale is ready