399 sou SPA this means a basin of soup may be made in five minutes. SOUP, Royal.—Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slices of undressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water; simmer till very strong, and lower it with a good beef broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add cream, ver- micelli, almonds, and a roll. SOUPS, various.—Good soups may be made from fried meats, where the fat and gravy are added to the boiled barley ; and for that purpose, fat beef steaks, pork steaks, mutton chops, &c. should be preferred, as containing more of the nutritious principle. When nearly done frying, add a little wa- ter, which will produce a gravy to he added to the barley broth; a little wheat flour should be dredged in also ; a quantity of onions, cut small, should also be fried with the fat, which gives the soup a fine flavour, assisted by seasonings, &c. Soups may be made from broiled meats. While the fat beef steak is doing before the fire, or mutton chop, &c., save the drippings on a dish, in which a little flour, oat- meal, with cut onions, &c., are put. SOUP, White Blond de Veau. •—Butter the bottom of a saucepan, and put into it some slices of ham, four or five pounds of a leg of veal, two or three carrots, and as many onions; wet them with a ladleful of grand bouillon, make it sweat over a slow fire, and reduce it to jelly ; when it is of a fine yellow tint, take it off the fire, prick the meat with the point of a knife to let the juice flow ; cover, and let it sweat another quarter of an hour, and then put in a sufficient quan- tity of grand bouillon: season it with parsley and small onions, a clove of garlic stuck with a clove; boil and skim, and put it to sim- mer on the edge of the grate, and when enough, skim it, run it throgh a cloth, and make use of it for empotage, or rice or vermicelli soup, and even sauces. SOUSE, for Braton.—Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rose- mary, in two gallons of water, with 4 ozs. of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. SPANISH CREAM. Dis- solve in J pint of rose-water, 1 oz. of isinglass cut small; run it through a hair sieve; add the yolks of three or four eggs, beaten and mixed with half a pint of cream, and two sorrel leaves. Pour it into a deep dish, sweeten with loaf sugar powdered. Stir it till cold, and put it into moulds. Lay rings round in different coloured sweetmeats. Add, if you like, a little sherry, and a lump or two of sugar, rubbed well upon the rind of a lemon to extract the flavour. SPANISH FLIES, Tincture of. —Take finely powdered Spanish flies, 2 ozs.; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Infuse for two or three days, and strain. This tincture is an acid stimulant for external use. It is good to apply to chilblains, for chafed skin, frostbites, &c. SPANISH INFUSION, for colds, coughs, §c.-Spanish juice, cut into small pieces, 1 oz.; salts of tar- tar, 3 drachms. Infuse in a quart of boiling water for a night: to the strained liquor, add 1|. ozs. of the syrup of poppies. Take three or four times a day. SPAR BASKET.—Procure a small common wire basket, and cover the wire with different col- oured worsted, the brightest you can obtain ; suspend this in a ves- sel so that it may not touch the bottom or sides by two or three