79 BRE BRI is generally accompanied with some organic disease of the heart or the coronary arteries. Effectual relief may be obtained by quiet, rest, opium, and cordials. The part should be well rubbed with antispasmodics, as the am- moniated tincture of guiacum ; or cause an eruption by rubbing the chest with the tartar emetic oint- ment. The bowels should be kept open by a laxative, as salts and senna. Take foetid spirits of am- monia, half ounce; solution of morphia, three drachms; camphor mixture, six ounces; mix, and take a table-spoonful every half hour till relieved. If the paroxysm be violent, 30 drops of ether, and ten or twelve of laudanum, may be taken immedi- ately in a little brandy and water. The tincture of Lobelia also is an efficacious remedy. (See Robin- son’s Herbal, article Lobelia) Take twenty or thirty drops, and gradually increase. The bowels must be kept regular; and if there be irritability and want of sleep take 15 or 20 drops of laudanum, or 6 or 8 grains of the extract of hen- bane at bed-time. Let the diet be light and sparing, the exercise gentle, the mind be kept easy, and avoid all spirituous and heating liquors. Dr Beach says, ‘Nothing is so well calculated to remove this af- fection permanently, as a long- continued course of purgation; even where it arises from disease or ossification of the coronary ar- teries of the heart. All mental exertion, violent exercise, over- eating, ardent spirits, and exces- sive venery—indeed, all excesses, must be carefully avoided—-cold and wet should especially be guar- ded against. The diet should be light, and easy of digestion.” BRENTFORD ROLLS. Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs, beaten with two spoon- fuls of yeast, and about a pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin-plates, and set them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper size; then bake half an hour. BREWER’S BITTERS. Quassia, 2 parts; cocculus indi- cus, I part; Italian juice, 1 part; water, 25 parts. Boil until re- duced to 20 parts, then add cop- peras, 1 part. Boil to a syrup. Or, Extract of quassia, extract of cocculus indicus, extract of liq- uorice, sulphate of iron, equal parts. This preparation is used for the same purpose as the last, and also to give an appearance of strength to weak liquor. BRIDE CAKE.—Take 4 lbs. of fine flour well dried, 4 lbs. of fresh butter, and 2 lbs. of loaf sugar. Pound and sift fine $ oz. of mace, and the same of nutmeg; and to every pound of flour, put eight eggs well beaten. Wash 4 lbs. of currants, pick them well, and dry before the fire. Blanch 1 lb. of sweet almonds, and cut them lengthways very thin, take 1 lb. each of citron, candied orange, and candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy. First work the butter to a cream with your hand, then beat in the sugar a quarter of an hour, and work up the whites of the eggs to a strong froth. Mix them with the sugar and butter, beat the yolks half an hour at least, and mix them with your other ingredients.—Then put in the flour, mace, and nutmeg, and beat it well till the oven is ready; put in the brandy, and beat in lightly the currants and almonds. Tie three sheets of pa-