EGG EGG 152 ing places when the weather is in- clement. Put a small portion of lime or ground oyster shell, or chalk into their food; also give them potatoes and bran, cabbage leaves, &c. This plan will produce a harvest of eggs in winter. EGG FLIP.—Beat up four or five new laid eggs, omitting two of the whites ; add 3 ozs. of fine sugar, and rub these well in the eggs: pour in boiling water, half a pint at a time, and when the pitcher is nearly full throw in two glasses of brandy, and one of Jamaica rum. Or, 1 quart of ale, 1 of porter; mix, and place over the fire till it creams only. Add half a pint of gin, and two wine-glasses of good rum, and five eggs well beaten; add sugar to taste. Mix the ale, &c., with the egg and spirit, pour- ing backwards and forwards; re- turn it to the fire, but do not boil. Use a little nutmeg or cinnamon. EGGS, to fricassee.—Boil the eggs rather hard; cut in round slices. Make a sauce of butter, parsley, shalots, pepper, &c. Boil, and when ready, add cream in proportion to the eggs used, and a little flour to thicken the same; pour all upon the eggs. A. N. EGGS AND BACON.—Toast some cutlets of fine streaked bacon in a dutch oven; they will be done in about ten minutes; then put the fat and some dripping into a frying-pan, and when hot, break the eggs into it; do not turn while frying, but keep pouring fat over them ; when the yolk looks white, they are enough; turn, and serve with the bacon. EGG PICKLE.—Boil front two to threo dozen fresh eggs quite hard ; then set a sufficient quanti- ty of good vinegar over the fire, ginger, white pepper, mustard seed, and a clove or two of garlic. Hav- ing placed the eggs without shells into broad mouthed jars, pour the vinegar, &c., over them. When cold, tie them down. The pickle will be ready in a month. It forms a pretty garnish when cut in slices, and constitutes a piquant relish with cold meat. EGGS, to •poach.—They must be fresh. Put a little vinegar and salt into the water, and break the eggs into it when boiling; boil three minutes; turn them with a skimmer. When you take them out, immerse them in warm water, to free them from froth, &c. Eat with pepper, salt, and butter. Or serve on toast. They are nice served on greens, as spinach, &c. EGGS, to preserve.-Apply with a brush a solution of gum arabic to the shells, or immerse the eggs therein, let them dry, and pack them in dry charcoal dust. This prevents their being affected by any alterations of temperature. EGG PUDDING.—It is made chiefly of eggs. It is nice made thusbeat well seven eggs; mix well with 2 ozs. of flour, pint and a half of milk, a little salt; flavour with nutmeg, lemon juice, and orange flour water. Boil l;'f hour in a floured cloth. Serve with wine-sauce sweetened. A. N. EGG SAUCE.—Boil two eggs hard, half chop the whites, put in the yolks, chop them together, but not very fine ; put them with j lb. of good melted butter. EGGS IN SNOW.—Take D pint of cream; 3 ozs. of sugar, and the pulp of an onion. Take six whites of eggs and whip them well; put in a little salt, 2 ozs. ol sugar and somo drops of orange flower water ; whisk well. Tuke a spoonful of the whites; poach them in cream; turn them, that they may be equally done; arrange them when done, as if they were poached eggs; dilute four yolks