278 ORA OPO If the inflamatory pains are se- vere, foment the eye with a decoc- tion of Stramonium leaves, sim- mered in spirits.—Or use a little weak mixture of laudanum and wa- ter.—A very cooling wash is made by powdering a drachm of borax, and dissolving it in a pint of boil- ing water.—Poultices are very good for inflammatory affections of the eyes; but the very best of all is slippery ELM. It should be mixed with milk and water, and applied direct to the eye, without any cloth between. During the inflammation, aperients should be given, and the Diaphoretic Powder used. See pages 159, 160, 161, for remedies for diseased eye. OPIATE for the TEETH.— Honey, 1 pound; laudanum, 8 ounces; oil of almonds, 1 ounce ; essence of bergamot, 2 drachms; tincture of pelitory, 4 ounces. Mix well and strain. Apply with a piece of cotton or lint. OPIATE, Injection.—Milk of assafoetida, 8 ozs,; tincture of opium, 1 drachm. This is useful in disorders of the anus attended with insufferable pain. OPIUM, or LAUDANUM, an- tidote to its poisonous influence.— Immediately take the juice of lem- ons ; or the strongest vinegar. Or sulphate of zinc, in 30 grain doses, every fifteen minutes, with plenty of warm water, is the most effectual. Opium produces great drowsiness and stupor, which must be overcome by all means; a tea- spoonful of sal volatile in strong coffee is the best stimulant; repeat every half hour; do not let the patient sleep for 12 hours, for if he do, he may wake no more. OPODELDOC.—Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in a pint of spirit of wine ; then dissolve 4 ozs. of hard white Spanish soap, scraped thin in 4 ozs. of oil of rosemary. It may bo improved by adding 2 ozs. of ammonia, tincture of aconite, or opium, 1 oz., and a little oil. It is a good application for sprains, lumbago, pained limbs,weakness of joints, &c. Mixed with tincture of cantharides, or tincture of cay- enne, it becomes more effectively stimulant. ORANGE.—The orange-tree is a beautiful ever-green, a native of Asia, and cultivated in the West Indies, Europe, China, &c. The flowers are very fragrant, and have long been used as a perfume. The juice of orange is a grateful acid liquor, consisting of citric acid, syrup, extractive, and mucilage. It is of great use in febrile or in- flammatory diseases, for allaying heat, quenching thirst, and pro- moting the salutary secretions. It is valuable in scurvy. ORANGE BRANDY.—Pare 8 oranges very thin, and steep the peels in a quart of brandy 48 hours in a close pitcher; then take wa- ter, 3 pints; loaf sugar, f lb.; boil until reduced to half the quantity; let it cool, and then mix with brandy ; let it stand 14 days, and then bottle it. ORANGE CAKES.—Take Seville oranges with good rinds quarter them, and boil in two or three waters, till tender, and the bitterness gone; dry them; take all the seeds and skins out of the pulp with a knife ; shred the peels very fine ; put them to the pulp; weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine sugar in- to a tossing-pan, with just suffi- cient water to dissolve it; boil it till it candies; then putin gradu- ally the orange-peels and pulp; mix well; boil very gently, till it looks clear and thick; then put into flat-bottomed glasses; set them in a slow oven; when they are candied on the top, turn them