406 STO STO Or, put a knuckle of veal, 1 lb. of lean beef, and 1 lb. of the lean of gammon of bacon, all sliced, in- to a stew-pan, with onions, tur- nips, celery, and two quarts of wa- ter. Stew the meat tender, but do not let it brown. It will serve either for soup, or brown, or white gravy ; if for brown, put some of the browning in, and boil it a few minutes. b i UiVlACHlCS. — Medicines, stimulating and warming the sto- mach. STOMACHIC CORDIAL.— Ginger, 1 drachm; tincture of car- damoms, 2 drachms; compound tincture of senna, 3 drachms. STOMACHIC WINE.—Pow- dered Peruvian bark, 1 oz.; carda- mom seeds, andorangepeel bruised, each 2 drachms. Infuse in a bot- tle of Port wine for five or six days. Strain off the wine. This is a good tonic for the stomach and intestines; it is also a preventive of intermittent fever. It gives tone and vigour to the system after recovering from disease. STOMACHIC DRAUGHT.— Quassia shavings, 2 drachms; boiling water, 1 pint. Let it re- main in a close vessel till cold. Strain. Add to the liquor, tinc- ture of cardamom, 2 ozs.; compound spirits of lavender, 4 drachms; rhu- barb in powder, 1 scruple. Take three table-spoonfuls an hour be- fore dinner to create an appetite. STOMACHIC ELIXIR, Dr. Stoughton’s.—Pare off the thin yellow rinds of 6 large Seville oranges, and put them in a quart bottle with 1 oz. of gentian root, scraped and sliced, and j a drachm of cochineal. Pour over these in- gredients a pint of brandy ; shake the bottle well several times during that and the following day ; let it stand two days more to settle, and clear it off into bottles for use. Take one or two tea-spoonfuls morning and afternoon, in a glass of wine or in a cup of tea. This elegant preparation is a most valu- able tonic. Another.—Gentian root, 2 ozs.; bitter oranges sliced, 1 oz.; Vir- ginia snake root, h oz. Bruise, and infuse for four days in 1 pint of brandy ; then add a* pint of wa- ter. A wine-glassful to be taken occasionally. Good for flatulency, indigestion, want of appetite, &c. STONE.—Stone is an accumu- lation of particles of gravel which unite and form a hard mass, or stone; and they enlarge by successive layers of gravel until they become very large and diffi- cult to remove. The symptoms are itching at the extremity of the glans of the penis, an increased desire to make water, with more or less pain in making it; even when the bladder is emptied, the pain continues; sometimes there is difficulty in retaining the water ; and at other times the flow of it is liable to stop suddenly. The irritation caused by the presence of a stone often produces remote symptoms, as pain in the back and lower limbs. Treatment.—Give the diuretic medicines described pages 146,146. See also Gravel, page 185. Drink strong pennyroyal tea; or a de- coction of burdock, dandelion, white carrot, and parsley roots. Drink half a cupful several times a day. Flannels dipped in the Stimulating Liniment, combined with tincture of cayenne, with 30 drops oflaudanum, may be applied externally to the region of pain. It is said that a gill of red onion juice and a pint of horsemint tea, drank morning and evening, but not together, will cause a change, and probably dissolve the stone. The following pills may be taken