19 ANT ANO take the life of any sensitive being and feed on its flesh; and that, consequently, no such grant was given to Adam in paradise, or to the antediluvians. He considered it a grant only fitted to the degra- ded state of man after the flood. ANISE.—This plant is carmin- ative and pectoral, useful in indi- gestion and flatulency. • It is a component part of the Cough Drops. For flatulent and bowel complaints in children and adults, the seeds are used; a tea-spoonful and a half. The oil dropped on sugar (four or five drops) is best. It is a good remedy for coughs. The seeds to be infused. ANODYNES.—Medicines al- laying pain and disposing to sleep. ANODYNE BALSAM.—Take of white Spanish soap, one ounce; opium, unprepared, two drachms; rectified spirit of wine, nine ounces; Digest them together in a gentle heat for three days; then strain off the liquor, and add to it three drachms of camphor. This balsam is of service in vio- lent strains and rheumatic com- plaints, when not attended with inflammation. It must be rubbed with a warm hand on the part affected; or a linen rag moistened with it; and renewed every third hour, till the pain abates. Bu. ANODYNE FOMENTA- TION.—Take of white poppy- heads, two ounces; elder flowers, half an ounce ; water, three pints. Boil till one pint is evaporated, and strain out the liquor. Bu. This fomentation relieves acute pain. If the affected part is very painful, add forty drops of Lauda- num, and 30 drops of Tincture of Cayenne. Bu. Al. ANODYNE PLASTER.-Melt an ounce of adhesive plaster, or di- achlyon, and whilst cooling, add a drachm of powdered Opium, and the same quantity of Camphor, previously dissolved in a small quantity of Olive oil. Spread on leather. This soon relieves an acute local pain. Bu. ANODYNE POWDER.-Opi- um, | oz.; camphor, 3 drs.; va- lerian, 1 oz.; cayenne pepper, 1 oz. Put the opium and camphor into a close bag; place it on the oven top to harden. Powder and mix. Take a quarter of a tea- spoonful at a time. Most valuable in colic, cramp, and severe pains. ANTHELMINTICS. — Medi- cines, destroying or expelling worms. ANTI - ACIDS. — Medicines, neutralizing acids. ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.—Ex- tract of Colocynth, 2 drachms; ex- tract of Jalap, 1 drachm; Almond Soap, lfj drachms; Guiacum, 3 drachms; tartarized Antimony, 8 grains; oil of Juniper, 4 or 5 drops; oil of Carraway, 4 drops ; oil of Rosemary, 4 drops. Form into a mass with Syrup of Buck- thorn, and divide into pills. ANTI-CHOLERA DROPS.— Tinctures of capsicum, opium, lobelia, essence of peppermint, of each, 1 oz. Mix. Take wbrn needful, a tea-spoonful in a little coffee. Most efficient in cholera, and affections of the bowels. ANTI - CHOLERA POW - DER.—Ipecacuanha, 3 drachms; ginger, 1 oz.; tormentil root, 1§ ozs.; poplar bark, 1| ozs.; cay- enne, gum myrrh, each 3 drachms; carbonate of soda, 3 drachms; cloves 2 drachms ; slippery elm, 5 drachms. Powder and mix. Dose, half a tea-spoonful every half-hour. ANTIMONIAL WINE.-This may be purchased at the druggists. As an emetic, the dose is from one to two table-spoonfuls. As a feb- rifuge, sudorific, or relaxant, from twenty to forty drops every three