PLA 317 PLA take some lard, or fine dripping', and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, ; boiling hot; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour ; drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy sauce. PLASTER, Adhesive. — Take of common plaster, half a pound ; of Burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound. Melt them together. . This plaster is generally used for keeping on other dressings. PLASTER, Anodyne. See : page 19. PLASTER, Alistering.—Take of Venice turpentine, six ounces ; i yellow wax, two ounces; Spanish flies, in fine powder, three ounces; powdered mustard, one ounce. Melt the wax, and while it is warm, add to it the turpentine, taking care not to evaporate it by too much heat. After the tur- pentine and wax are sufficiently incorporated, sprinkle in the pow- ders, continually stirring the mass till it be cold. PLASTER, Common.—Take of common olive oil, six pints ; lith- arge, reduced to a fine powder, 2h lbs. Boil the litharge and oil to- gether over a gentle fire, continu- ally stirring them, and keeping always half a gallon of water in the vessel; after they have boiled three hours, a little of the plaster may be put into cold water, to try if it be of a proper consistence; then cool, and press the water well out of it with the hands. This plaster is applied in slight wounds and excoriations of the skin; it keeps the part soft and i warm, and defends it from the air, which is all that is necessary in such cases. PLASTER FIGURES, to bronze.—For the ground, after it has been sized and rubbed down, take Persian blue, verditer, and spruce ochre. Grind them separ- ately in water, turpentine, or oil, according to the work, and mix them in such proportion as will produce the colour desired. Then grind Dutch metal on a part of the composition; laying it with judg- ment on the prominent part of the figure, which produces a fine effect. PLASTER, Gum.-Take of the common plaster, four pounds; of gum ammoniac and galbanum, strained, of each, half a pound. Melt them together, and add, of Venice turpentine, six ounces. This plaster is used as a digestive, and likewise for discussing indo- lent tumours. PLASTER, for the Stomach.— Take of gum plaster, half a pound; camphorated oil, an ounce and a half; 10 drops each of the oil of mace, and mint; black pepper, or cayenne, 1 oz. Melt the plaster, and mix with it the oil; then sprinkle in the pepper, reduced to a fine powder. This, spread upon soft leather, and applied to the region of the stomach, will be of service in flatu- lencies arising from hysteric and hypochondriac affections. A few drops of oil of mint, may be rub- bed upon it before it is applied. PLASTER, Warm.—Take of gum plaster one ounce; blistering plaster, two drachms; melt them over a gentle fire. This plas- ter is useful in the sciatica, and also in rheumatic pains. Should it blister, use less of the blistering paste. Renew after 8 days. It ought, however, to be worn for some time, and to be renewed at least once a week. PLASTIC MATERIAL for forming various objects new.—By Professor Purkins. Five parts of whiting are mixed with a solution of one part of glue. When the whiting is well worked up into a paste with the glue, a proportionate