OME ONI 276 with yolks of eggs; strew over them a few bread crumbs, shred lemon peel, with grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; roll very tight; place in a pewter dish; pour over them half a pint of good gravy made of bones; put £ lb. of butter over it, make a light paste, and lay it round the dish; roll the lid half an inch thick, and lay it on. OMELETTE.—Make a batter of eggs and milk, and a very little flour; put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives, the latter is best, or a very small quantity of 6halot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrapo or two of nutmeg. Take some butter boiled in a small fry- ing-pan, and pour the above bat- ter into it; when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at the first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty sized omelet; but many cooks will use eight or ten. A small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a little tarragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal ofparsley should be used. Omelet, though usually served in the course, would be much bet- ter if it was sent up after, that it might be eaten as hot as possible. OMELETTE of Asparagus.— Take six eggs; beat them up with cream; boil some of the finest as- paragus ; when boiled, cut off all the green in small pieces, and mix them with the eggs, pepper, and salt; heat the pan ; put in a slice of butter, and serve hot—on but- tered toasts. OMELETTE, Stveet.—Mix ten eggs with a gill of cream, 1 lb. of butter, and syrup of nutmeg, or grated; sweeten with loaf sugar; put the whole into a frying-pan, as for a savory omelette; fry, and serve hot, with sifted sugar upon it. ONIONS.—If you want a good crop, dig the ground deep, and manure it highly with the drop- pings of the hen-house. Roll the surface of the ground smooth, and scratch it with a fine rake before marking off the rows. ONIONS.—A dry, cold, airy loft is best for store onions; do not let them lie more than two or three bulbs thick, and often look them over, and pull out bad ones. Do not remove any of the outer rind but what comes off in the handling. They keep well in ropes and hung up; the easiest way to make which is to tie them on to a hay or straw-band, which is better than a stake. This plan is useful where shelf room is scarce; but the points to observe are a cool, airy situation, warmth and moist- ure being more inimical to their keeping than frost. ONIONS, to keep. Let the onions be dry; heat a poker red hot, and with it singe the roots, to prevent all premature growth. Hang them in a dry cold room. ONIONS, to pickle.—Take 2 quarts of the small white round onions. Scald them in very strong salt and water. Just let them boil. Strain; peel; place in jars; cover them with the best white wine vinegar. In two days pour all the vinegar off, and boil it half an hour with a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 oz. of ginger, 16 cloves, £ oz. ground mustard, 2 ozs. of mustard seed. When cold, pour upon the onions.—Some persons prefer the vinegar boiling hot. ONIONS, "to ragout.—Peel a pint of young onions; then cut four large ones very small; melt some butter in a stewpan ; throw in the onions, and fry them till brown; dust in flour, and shako round till thick; add salt, pepper,