OXG OYS 284 and fry of a fine yellow brown. Serve with sweet sauce. OXFORD PUDDING.—Have 4 ozs. of bread crumbs grated, and take 4 ozs. of currants, the same of suet chopped very fine, a large spoonful of sugar, and a little nut- meg : mix all together. Take the yolks of four eggs, and make your puddings into balls, and fry them a light brown in butter. Serve with sherry or rum sauce. OXFORD PUNCH.—Rub the rinds of four fresh lemons with loaf sugar till you have extracted a porton of the juice. Cut the peel finely off three lemons more, and two Seville oranges. Use the juice of ten lemons and six Seville oranges. Add eight glasses of calf’s-foot jelly; put all into a large jug and stir well together. Put in three quarts of water boiling hot, and set the jug upon the hob for half an hour. Strain the liquor into a large bowl; pour in a bottle of capillaire, half a pint of sherry, a pint of cognac brandy, a pint and a half of old Jamaica rum, and a quart of orange shrub; stir well as you pour in the spirit. Add sugar to your “oxford SAUSAGES.— Take 1 lb. of young pork, fat and lean, without gristle; lean veal, 1 lb.; chop all together with 1 lb. of beef suet. Add J lb. of grated bread, half the peel of a lemon shred fine; a nutmeg grated; a few sage leaves chopped fine; a teaspoonful of pepper, and two of salt; some savory, thyme, and marjoram. Roll them out the size of common sausages, and fry them in fresh butter, or broil them over the fire, and send them to the table hot. OX GALL, prepared.—Fresh gall, 1 pint; alum, 1 ounce. Boil until thelatter isdissolved,then add fresh gall, 1 quart; salt, 1 ounce. Boil in like manner, keep both so- ■ lutions in separate bottles for two or three months; pour off the’ clear, and mix them together; al- low them to settle, and decant the pure gall for use. OXTAIL SOUP.—Joint the tails, and let them soak for some time in warm water. Put into a gallon stew-pan 8 cloves, 2 or 3 onions; allspice and black pepper, of each \ a drachm ; cayenne pep- - per, 1 drachm; cover with cold: water; skim as long as any scum rises; cover the pan very close,, and simmer till the meat becomes < tender, and will easily leave the bones. A table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup and a glass of wine I will be a great improvement. OYSTERS au citron.—Instead i of vinegar and black pepper, squeeze e fresh lemon juice over the fish, and use soluble cayenne. OYSTERS, Broiled.—To broil i oysters, roll them in flour or oat- • meal, and as each oyster is taken from the gridiron, put a hit of but- - ter on it. Keep hot and covered i until served. Oysters ought to be eaten where they are broiled. OYSTERS, to escallop.—Wash: them in their own liquor; then strain the liquor, and put it to them again; put some of them in- to escallop shells; strew bread crumbs over them, with a little ■ pepper, and a bit of butter; then more oysters, bread crumbs, and a . bit more butter at the top; put them in a dutch-oven till they are brown. OYSTERS, to feed.—Put them ■ into water and wash them with a birch-besom till quite clean; then lay them bottom downwards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt.