365 SAG SAL your cask, and to thirteen gallons I of the liquor, add a quart of brandy. : Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop j it very close. If you make a large j cask, keep it a year in cask. SAGE CHEESE.—Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above the vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. SAGE and ONION SAUCE. . —Chop fine 2 ozs. of onion, and 1 oz. of green sage leaves ; put them into a pan with a small cupful of water ; simmer gently 10 minutes; I then put in a teaspoonful of pep- per, and some salt, and 1 oz. of fine bread crumbs; mix well to- gether ; then pour to it a | pint of broth, or melted butter; stir and simmer a few minutes longer. SAGO.—To prevent the earthly taste, soak it in cold water an hour; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more, and simmer gently till the berries are clear, with lem- on peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. SAGO MILK. — Clean it well, and boil it slowly and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity will be suffi- cient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or fla- vouring. SAGO PUDDING. Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoonfuls of sago nicely wash- ed and picked, lemon-peel, cinna- mon, and nutmeg: sweeten to taste; then mix four eggs, put a paste round the dish, and bake slowly. Another.—Boil 4 ozs. of sago in water a few minutes ; strain, and add milk, and boil till tender. Boil lemon peel and cinnamon in a lit- tle milk, and strain it to the sago. Put the whole into a basin; break 8 eggs; mix it well together, and sweeten with moist sugar; add a glass of brandy, and some nutmeg ; put puff paste round the rim of the dish, and butter the bottom. Bake three quarters of an hour. SALINE JULEP. — Dissolve two drachms of salt of tartar in three ounces of fresh lemon juice, strained ; when the effervescence is over, add of mint-water and com- mon water, each two ounces; of simple syrup, one ounce. This removes sickness at the stomach, relieves vomiting, pro- motes perspiration, and may be of some service in fevers especially of the inflammatory kind. SALINE LAXATIVE POW- DER.—Take of soluble tartar and cream of tartar, each 1 drachm; pui-ified nitre, § drachm ; make in- to a powder. In fevers, and other inflammatory disorders, where it is necessaay to keep the body gently open; one of these cooling laxative powders may be taken in a little gruel and repeated occasionally. SALINE MIXTURE.—Take of crystallized acid of lemon, one drachm, or fresh lemon juice, an ounce and a half; salt of worm- wood, one drachm; white sugar, three drachms; pure water, twelve ounces; essence of peppermint, thirty drops. Mix. A teacupful to be taken often in inflammatory fevers and sore throat. SALISBURY CAKES. — To three pounds of flour, add one pound of moist sugar, to be mixed into paste with half a pint of wa- ter, and to be baked in an oven.