326 POS POR sage, pepper, and salt, and a little allspice. The hog’s entrails hav- ing been well soaked, and made very clean, half fill them with the meat, or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered, and so rolled, and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Another way.—Take 3 lbs. of pork, fat and lean, without skin or gristle ; chop as fine as possi- ble : season with pepper, salt, sage, rubbed fine, mix well, and put it into the sldns or entrails well cleaned, or make into balls. Mix a little bread with the meat, if agreeable. PORK, Spring or Forehand of. —Cut out the bone; sprinkle salt, epper, sage dried, over the inside; ut first warm a little butter to baste it, and then flour it; roll the ork tight, and tie it; then roast y a hanging-jack. About two hours will do it. PORK STEAKS.—Cut them from a loin or neck, and of mid- dling thickness ; pepper and broil them, turning them often ; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the mo- ment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. PORRIDGE. — See Oatmeal Porridge. PORTER, Cheap and Good.— Linseed, 1 oz.; the same of Span- ish juice and ginger; hops, 1J oz.; malt, 1 lb.; liquorice, j oz.; sugar and treacle, each, H lbs. Boil with 4| gallons of water, down to 3| gallons; also add a little pearl, or Iceland Moss. When cool, stir yeast into it, and let it ferment. PORTER PLASTER, for bruises.—This simple remedy is nothing more than 2 quarts of por- ter simmered, till it is reduced to a salve. PORT WINE.—British grape wine, or good cider, 4 gallons; re- cent juice of red elder berries, 1 gallon; brandy,2quarts; logwood, 4 ozs.; rhatany root, bruised, \ lb. First infuse the logwood and rhat- any root in the brandy, and a gal- lon of the grape wine or cider, for a week; then strain off the liquor, and mix it with the other ingre- dients. Keep it in a cask well bunged for a month; then bottle it. PORT WINE, to detect Adul- teration in.—It is often adulterated with alum to make it astringent. Mix the suspected wine with lime water; to stand a day; if the wine be genuine, a number of crystals will be deposited at the bottom of the vessel. If alum be in the wine, there will be no crystals, but a slimy and muddy precipitate. Or, drop some solution of subcar- bonate of potass into the wine; if alum be present, there will be a violet-coloured precipitate, or cloudiness, which will vanish, if a few drops of caustic potash, or of muriatic acid be added to the mix- ture. PORTUGAL ONIONS, to pickle.—Slice them in strong salt and water for 24 hours; drain; put into a jar, and pour upon them vinegar spiced and boiled. Put a small piece of alum in the jar. POSSET of BARLEY.—Boil b lb. of French barley in 3 pints of milk; boil it till it is done enough; then put in a pint of cream, some mace, and cinnamon; sweeten with loaf sugar, and when it is just warm, pour in a pint of sherry wine, and froth it up.—A less quantity may be made. POSSET of ale, or beer.—Take J pint of milk; put it on the til's till it just boils; pour it on cut bread in a basin; then just boil J pint of beer, and pour into the milk and bread. Sweeten and season as you like.