Splendidly Illustrated with 130 Engravings of various Plants. The Best, Most Simple, and Practical Work on British and Porei’jn Herbs ever published. Price, 2s, 6d. Plain. Coloured Plates, 3s. 6cL OE SENT POST FKEE FOE 4 STAMPS EXTRA. ROBINSON’S NEW FAMILY HERBAL: Comprising a Description of British and Foreign Plants, and their Medical Virtues; founded on the Works of the best English and Americian Writers on the Medical Properties of Herbs. Directions for Gathering Leaves, Flowers, Seeds, Roots, Barks ; and for making Juices, Syrup, Preserves, Oils, Electuaries, Conserves, Ointments, Poultices, Pills, Decoctions, &c., to which is added, The Botanic Family Physician, with complete Directions for the use of the various Herbs. General Directions for curing or Preventing Disease. Valuable Receipts, and Remarks on Diet, Clothing, Bathing, Air, Exercise, &c., Nursing the Sick, Hints in Emergencies, Nutrition of Grain, Flesh, Animal and Vegetable Food, Fruits, &c. Definition of Terms, and other important matter. (gif This part has already been found by the afflicted, to be more valuable than gold. EXTRACT FROM THE PREFACE. The government of Herbs by the sun, moon, and planets, has been exploded by modem science; and is now regarded as absurd in the extreme. Botanical knowledge has been greatly extended, and some Medical Men and Herbalists have very ably written upon it. The properties of Herbs are now better understood than in the days of Culpeper, and others. In preparing this Work, I have rejected the Astrological govern- ment of Herbs, such as, for instance, Culpeper’s laughable description of Wormwood. I have consulted the works of Hill, Woodville, Don, Thornton, and especially some of the great American Herbalists. tiff Respecting this Work, a Gentleman writes, “I thank Mr. Robinson for publishing his very valuable Herbal, and especially for appending to it, The Botanic Family Physician, which contains lucid and appropriate Directions for the cure and prevention of dis- ease. The Botanico-Medico System I prefer to the Allopathic, the Homoeopathic, and to all other systems whatever. I prefer it, on ac- count of the great benefit I have received from it, and I do feel grate- ful for having purchased Robinson’s invaluable Herbal. Why, it is only the price of one bottle of Allopathic medicine, and this ought to induce the sale of it, which, I leam, is very extensive. I deem it a rare Family Book, and it will save pounds on pounds in the ordinary Allopathic Advice and Physic.”—C. M., Manchester, 1865. HALIFAX: W. NICHOLSON AND SONS.