MUS 2C0 MUS milk and water; (See Slippery Elm;) thon apply the Black Salvo for healing, pago G5, or tho Green Ointment, page 188. MUSSELS, to detect poisonous. —Put a silver spoon into the ves- sel with tho mussels, and let it con- tinue therein while they are over tho tiro; when removed take out the spoon, and if it is of a bright colour, there is no poison; but if it is tinged of a black or dark hue, they aro unfit for use. MUSSEL SOUP. — Boil the mussels till they are open; take them off; put them into another stewpan; then with butter rolled in flour, some parsley, and sweet herbs, with some good gravy, let them simmer till reduced to one half; add a liaison, and serve it up hot. Before boiling, take out the moss, crabs, &c. MUSSELS, to steiv.—Washand pick out moss, and boil as before; put them into a saucepan; to a quart of mussels, add half a pint of the liquor strained, two blades of mace, a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them stew; toast bread brown, and lay it round the dish; pour in the mussels, and send to table hot. MUSHROOMS. — Every cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many per- sons has been occasioned by care- lessly eating the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first ap- pear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size in- creases, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and the middle. Those that have white or yellow fur should bo care- fully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. MUSHROOMS, to piclcle. — Buttons must be nibbed with a bit of flannel and salt; and from the larger, take out the red inside, for when they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. MUSHROOMS, to stew.—The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stew-pan with some pepper corns ; simmer slow- ly till done, then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two spoon- fuls of cream ; give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. MUSHROOMS, to dry.—Wipe them clean, and of the large take out the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. When used, simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size. To simmer them in their own liquor till it dry up into them, shaking the pan, then dry- ing on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder.