PAL 289 PAL moment she swallowed the first mouthful, the palpitation ceased, and recurred no more for that time. From that period, whenever the palpitation came on, she could al- ways stop it by this simple reme- dy. It appears, -from the experi- ments made by medical men, that the carbonic acid was the active element in relieving the complaint, because, until the gas was liberated by the mixture of citric acid and the carbonate of soda, no benefit accrued.—Journal of Health. PALPITATION OF THE HEART.—To 10 drops of the tincture of foxglove, add 10 drms. of camphor mixture, 1 drachm of tincture of columba, and 15 drops of sulphuric ether. Mix, and take a teaspoonful two or three times a day. PALPITATION OF THE HEART.—Drink a pint of cold ■water. Or, apply outwardly a rag dipt in vinegar. Or, be elec- trified. Or, take a decoction of mother-wort every night. Wesley. PALSY, on PARALYSIS.— It is a disease of debility, or dim- inished sensibility of the nerves, sometimes of the whole body. It is indicated by a suspension of mo- tion, frequently of one side, rarely : the lower extremeties from the loins; and it is sometimes confined to a muscle or nerve, as of the ; bladder and anus, allowing the urine and fceces to pass off invol- : untarily; sometimes the muscles I of the tongue, causing stammering : and loss of speech; sometimes of i the optic nerves, producing Gutta r Serena, or imperfect vision; and I sometimes the nerve of the ear, i causing deafness. Itis generally precededby numb- ; ness, coldness, paleness, &c. In 1 bad cases, where one half of the 1 body is paralysed, the speech is much impeded, or totally lost, and convulsions often take place on the sound side. The muscles of the affected side of the face being re- laxed, give those of the opposite side an appearance of being drawn up or contracted. It may be caused by an apoplec- tic attack, any thing obstructing the flow of nervous influence from the brain into the organs of mo- tion; hence, tumours, over dis- tension and effusion, distortions of the spine, and thickening of the ligaments connecting the vertebra}, often give rise to it. The long- continued use of sedatives will likewise produce palsy, such as constant handling of white lead; poisonous fumes of metals or min- erals ; translation of morbid mat- ter to the head; suppression of accustomed evacuations; pressure on the nerves by laxatives ; frac- tures, wounds, or other external injuries, &c. Treatment.—In sudden attacks, the same treatment as in apoplexy. To remove spasmodic symptoms, give the Antispasmodic Tincture, page 20, every hour. Betwixt give the Stimulating Drops, fol- lowed by herb tea. Steam the parts well with a bitter decoction of herbs; as tansy, hops, worm- wood, camomile, catnep, penny- royal, and betony, or any other bitter herbs. Pour boiling vine- gar and water upon them ; cover up, and let it infuse some time. Then rub the part with a stimulant, made of salt and cayenne, infused in hot vinegar. Or, made of cayenne, whisky, and salt. Twice a day rub the spine of the back with the Stimulating Ointment; or apply mustard plasters; or sting the place with nettles. Electricity and dry frictions are very good. Once or twice a week give the va- pour bath ; and two hours after rub the whole body with the Stim- s