BLO 70 BLO this remedy. Equal parts of the tincture and of paregoric were found by Dr. Tully to afford most marked relief. It produces a warmth about the chest, which the patients find agreeable. It is much employed in cold in the head, promoting the discharge of mucus, and imparts a pleasing sense of warmth to the whole head. Dr. R. P. Stevens speaks highly of its virtues in this affec- tion, combined with cloves and camphor, and taken as snuff. As a gargle it is very efficacious. Asthma. The paroxysms of asthma are much relieved by it. I gave it with advantage to a fe- male aged 57, who had been asth- matic since the change of life in 1850, and who suffered from fre- uent diarrhoea and dyspnoea, or ifficult breathing. It completely dispelled an asthmatic cough in a female of 30, who had aborted a few weeks before. Among other cases, was a girl of 13, with here- ditary asthma, and symptoms of stone’ in the bladder. She passed her water in bed, was fretful and irritable, and the urine was loaded with lithates. She rapidly im- proved under a suitable pectoral mixture and the compound san- guinaria powders, and in a little while was restored to perfect health. Its efficacy in asthma is confirmed by other observers, and amongst them may be mentioned Dr. Eberle, who speaks well of it. —It is most valuable in Hooping Cough. It should be combined with camphorated tincture of Opium. Croup. Dr. Nathan Smith and others speak of it as a sovereign remedy in this disease. Dr. Bird recommends its use in the mem- branous stage, as an emetic, in the form of decoction. It expels the false membrane, and produces a stimulating effect upon the mouth and fauces. Dr. Barton pronoun- ces it an excellent remedy in ma- lignant sore throat, croup, and similar affections, in the form of an emetic and stimulating expec- torant. Dr. Ives recommends it as highly useful in the first stage of croup, and must be given so as to produce vomiting. He observes, that many physicians have relied, for years, wholly upon it as a remedy for croup. Diphtheria. Of the three forms of this disease, the simple, croupal, and malignant, it is in the two last that the sanguinaria will be found especially useful. In my own practice, I employ this substance as an emetic in the croupal form; it acts with ertergy, and produces a thrilling effect upon the entire mucous membrane of the fauces and respiratory tract, with a feel- ing of warmth. It alone, seems to impart vitality to the suffering throat, and I recommend it with the very greatest confidence. In the malignant form of diph- theria, besides the most active treatment, as hydrochloric acid to the throat, &c., a gargle, of a warm decoction of sanguinaria in vine- gar, is invaluable. Scarlatina. Dr. Tully has used the decoction as a gargle with ben- efit, and Dr. Stevens, of Ceres, de- rived great benefit from full emetic doses of the decoction in the ma- lignant form of scarlatina. It re- moves the morbid secretions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, oesophagus, and fauces, and tends to break up the morbific influence of the disease. In an epidemic of scarlatina, with symptoms of the most alarming character, Dr. R. G. Jennings, of Virginia, after the failure of almost every thing else, including nitrate of silver, found gargles of the infusion of