15 ALL ALL kind, and soaked all night in cold liquor. Turn on at 180°; mash thoroughly an hour and a quarter, and stand an hour. Boil one hour. Turn on second liquor at 195°, and stand three quarters of an hour. Boil 3 hours; tun on third liquor at 165°, and mash three quarters of an hour, and stand the same. Pitch the tun at 60° and cleanse at 80°, on the third day. Skim as soon as a close yeasty head appears, until no yeast arises. Half a pound of hops per quarter should be roused in, and the whole left to settle. Also rouse in six ounces of salt, half a pound of finely sifted flour, six ounces of ground ginger, and six ounces of ground carraway seeds. ALE MULLED.—Place a pint of good ale or beer in a saucepan, with a little grated nutmeg. When it boils take it off the fire, and sweeten. Beat two or three eggs, and mix with a little cold also. Boil, and then add the egg to the hot ale, pouring backwards and forwards from one vessel to the other to prevent curdling. Rum or brandy may be added ad libitum. ALE OR PORTER, to ripen. —Bottle and put a couple of rai- sins, or a few grains of rice or sugar into each bottle, to generate the required effervescence. ALL FOURS.—A game at Cards, very amusing; it is played by two, and sometimes by four persons, in two partnerships. This game derives its name from the four chances therein, for each of which a point is scored ; namely, “high” (the best trump out) “low” (the smallest,) “Jack” (the knave of trumps) “Game” (the majority of pips) reckoned for the following cards the re- spective players have in their tricks, viz— Every ace is counted as four. Every king is counted as three. Every queen is counted as two. Every knave is counted as one. And each ten counts as ten. Low is always scored by the per- son to whom it was dealt, but Jack, being the property of whoever can win or save it, the holder is per- mitted to revoke and trump with it, and when turned up as a trump, the dealer scores one. It is also allowable for the play- er who lays down a high or low trump to inquire at the time whether the same be high or low. After cutting for deal, at which either the highest or lowest card wins as previously fixed, six cards are to be given to each player, either by three, or one at a time; and the thirteenth turned up for trump; then if the eldest does not like his cards, he may for once in a hand, say “I beg;” when the dealer must either give a point or three more cards to each, and turn up again; but if that should prove of the same suit as the first turn- up, then three cards more must be given, and so on until a different suit occurs. The cards rank as at whist; and each player should always strive to secure his own tens and court-cards, or take those of the adversary, to obtain which, except when commanding cards are held, it is usual to play a low one, to throw the lead into the opponent’s hands. Ten or eleven points con- stitute game, which may be set up as at whist. When the dealer shows any of his adversary’s cards, a new deal may be demanded ; but in showing his own, he must abide by the same. If discovered previous to play- ing, that too many cards are given to either party, a fresh deal may