111 CHO CHL it; stuff them with shred parsley; rub it all over with the yolks of eggs, and strew over it bread crumbs, baste it, and set in a Dutch oven ; when it is done enough, lay round it dried spinach. CHINESE EIRE, for Sky- rockets.—1. If three quarter inch or under, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 4parts; sulphur, 8parts; east-iron borings, 4 parts. Mix. 2. If over 1 inch and under 2 inches bore, nitre, 16 parts; char- coal, 4 parts; sulphur, 4 parts; iron borings, 5 parts. Mix. CHINTZ, to ivash.—Use only a little white soap. Or boil sago, or rice to a perfect pulp, and use it instead of soap ; the article may afterwards be washed in the pulp well diluted with warm water, and this will stiffen it beautifully. This will be found useful for printed dresses whose colours are likely to give way by the use of alkaline soaps. CHLORIDE OF LIME.— Scatter chloride of lime on a board in a stable, to remove all kinds of flies, but more especially biting flies. Sprinkling beds of vege- tables with even a weak solution, effectually preserves them from caterpillars, slugs, &c. A paste of one part powdered chloride of lime and one half-part of some fatty matter placed in a narrow band round the trunk of the tree, prevents insects from creeping up it. Even rats, mice, cockroaches, and crickets flee from it. CHLORIDE OF LIME.— It is a great purifier. One pound requires three gallons of water; use the clear solution. To purify rooms, sprinkle on the floor; and if needful, on the bed-linen. In- fected clothes should be dipped in it and wrung out, just before they are washed. It purities night commodes, water closets, &c. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Scrape into a quart of thick cream 1 ounce of the best chocolate, £ lb. of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth, cool, then add the whites of new eggs. Whisk, and take up the froth on sieves, and serve it in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. CHOLERA.—A compound of two greek words, chole, bile, and rein, to flow. Its literal meaning is, a discharge of bile. But the word cholera designates that dreadful Asiatic disease which is so very fatal. In this disease, the secretion of bile is suspended, and the evacuations are entirely free from it. Therefore there are two species of Cholera—the English— and the Asiatic. The English Cholera, or Bilious Diarrhoea, attacks suddenly, with nausea, purging and vomiting; sometimes painful colicky griping in the bowels. The evacuations are thin and watery, and at last become very bilious, the colour sometimes green, at other times approximating to black, indicating vitiated bile caused by unhealthy secretions during its passage through the alimentary canal. If the disease is not restrained, the vomiting, retching', and spasmodic pain, increases, accompanied with cramp in the legs, and muscles of the abdomen. Coldness of the ex- tremities, cold sweats, and fainting sometimes occur. Sometimes this disease ends in death, especially with old and delicate subjects. But in this country it is seldom fatal. It is caused by intemperance, by a vitiated atmosphere, by eating unwholesome food, and unripe fruits. In the treatment of it, it is necessary to neutralize the acid, vitiated or acrid bile, and produce a determination to the surface. As soon as the symptoms appeal', give