62 BLA BLA ound ; lamp-black, j of a pound. 'Ielt the tallow and wax; then cool a little and stir in the black and gum, previously mixed. BLACKBERRY.—See Robin- son’s Herbal. Of the Blackberry, Dr. Chapman says, “ Of the vege- table astringents, I believe that the blackberries are amongst the most efficacious. To check the inordinate evacuations which at- tend the protracted stages of chol- era infantum, no remedy has ever done so much in my practice.” BLACKBERRY BRANDY.- To half a gallon of blackberry juice put one pound and a half of lump sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, quarter of an ounce of cloves, and one ounce of allspice. Boil it a few minutes and when cool, add one pint of brandy. This is an invaluable remedy for diarrhoea. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. —To one gallon of blackberry juice put four pounds of lump sugar. Boil and skim off. Then add one ounce of cloves, one ounce of cin- namon, ten grated nutmegs; boil down till sufficiently rich. Let it cool and settle. Then drain off and add one pint of brandy. BLACKBERRY AND WINE CORDIAL. — The following is recommended as a delightful bev- erage, and an infallible specific for diarrhoea, or diseases of the bow- els:—To half a bushel of black- berries, well mashed, add a quar- ter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of cinnamon, two ounces of cloves; pulverize well, mix, and boil slowly until done; then strain the juice through flannel, and add to each pint of the juice one pound of loaf-sugar ; boil again for some time, take it off, and, while cool- ing, add half a gallon of best Cog- nac brandy.—Dose: for an adult, a wine-glassful; for a child, a tea- spoonful or more, according to age. BLACKBERRY JAM.—Ga- ther the fruit in dry weather. Boil or bake it for three-quarters of an hour, with half its weight of coarse sugar. Pot it, and keep it air tight, and it will be excellent. The fruit must be used when fresh gathered. BLACKBERRY JELLY.— Bruise two quarts of Blackberries; add 2 quarts of water; and when they boil, run them through a linen bag; boil the syrup five minutes; then to every pound of juice, add a pound of sugar ; boil 15 minutes, skim well, and pot, and put brandy papers over them. The addition of a little isinglass, and stewing them in a slow oven till a little candied, is a great im- provement, especially if half of the water be left out. A. iV. BLACKBERRY SYRUP, for Cholera and Summer Complaints.— Blackberry juice, 1 quart; fine sugar, f lb.; nutmegs, cinnamon, allspice, of each, -} oz.; cloves, 1| drachms, cayenne pepper, A dr. Powder them all, and gently boil them in the juice for about twenty miuutes. When cold, add half a pint of brandy. It relieves inward pains, cramp, and diarrhoea. Gu. BLACKBERRY SYRUP.— Make a syrup of a pound of sugar, to each pint of water; boil until it is thick; add as many pints of the expressed juice of blackberries as there are pounds of sugar; put half a nutmeg grated to each quart of the syrup; boil fifteen or twen- ty minutes, then add half a gill of best French brandy for each quart of syrup; bottle it for use. A tablespoonful for a child, or a wineglass for an adult, is a dose. BLACKBERRY WINE.—To make a wine equal to port. Take ripe blackberries, press the juice from them, let it stand thirty-six