373 SCA SAY and skim off all the fat; add tlie ■whites of three eggs; run it through a jelly bag several times. SAVOURY JELLY, for cold meats.—Boil beef and mutton to a stiff jelly; season it with a little pepper and salt, a blade or two of mace, and an onion; then beat the whites of four eggs; put them to the jelly, and beat it a little; then run it through a jelly bag, and when clear, pour it on your meat or fowls. SAVOURY JELLY, to put over cold pies.—Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton; or if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, necks and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistency by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lem- on peel, and a tea-spoonful of Ja- maica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils skim it well, and let it sim- mer very slowly till quite strong; strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, and then to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs, (but don’t add the sediment,) and pour it through a nice sieve, with a nap- kin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. SAVOURY RICE. Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with an onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boil- ed to a mash, dry it on the shal- low end of a sieve before the fire, and either serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. SCALES AND BURNS. Bathe the part with heated vine- gar by means of a rag, and then cover with a liniment made of one part of oil of turpentine, and two parts of yellow basilicon. It will smart at first, but gradually and soon abate, and the wound feel comparatively easy; the dressing then may be changed for sugar of lead ointment, or the common lin- iment of lime water and oil, equal parts. The blisters, if any, may be opened with a needle; if the skin has been removed, the treat- ment is the same, since equal re- lief is experienced. A solution of Epsom salts has been recommended for scalds and burns. Dissolve Epsom salts in a little spirits of wine, and add wa- ter. Apply cloths saturated in it. —See Burns. SCALD HEAD.—This affects the heads of children chiefly. The scabby eruptions at the roots of the hair are very disagreeable. It is a very obstinate and infectious dis- ease. First, cut off all the hair, and wash ‘the head night and morning with warm soap suds, and afterwards bathe with tincture of blood-root. Then apply the brown ointment, as described in the i&rd page, once a day. Give the patient sulphur and cream of tartar in treacle, so as slightly to open the bowels. A poultice of dock roots is very useful. SCALD HEAD. Anoint it with Barbadoes tar.—Or, apply daily white wine vinegar. If wood soot is mixed with fresh butter into an ointment, and the head anointed with it every day, it will generally cure it at the begin- ning ; but when it is become very