POL 322 POM iveit a degree of greasiness; add- ing thereto nearly as much spirit of turpentine as of varnish. The cast-iron work is best preserved by rubbing it with black lead, and a little turpentine in it. But when rust appears on grates, or fire- irons, apply a mixture of tripoli, with half its quantity of sulphur, intimately mixed on a slab, and applied with a piece of soft leather; or apply emery and oil. POLISHING PASTE.—For brass, the best kind is two parts of soft soap mixed with four parts of rotten stone in very fine powder. Or, eight parts of fine rotten stone powder, two parts of oxalic acid powdered, and turpentine sufficient to make them into a paste. For iron emery powder and lard is used, and for pewter, powdered bath-brick and soft soap. For wood, spirit of turpentine and bee’s wax made into a soft paste, applied with a brush and woollen rag, and afterwards polished with a dry woollen cloth and soft brush. POLYPODY.—A valuable lant. See JRobinson’s Herbal.— t is a first-rate remedy for liver complaint, both acute and chronic; for consumption, palpitation, indi- gestion, eruptions, impurity of the blood, &c. When taken for cough, it produces nausea, but this departs as soon as it has caused expectora- tion. It is valuable in asthma, bronchitis, &c. It may be taken in infusion,—a tea-spoonful to nearly a pint of boiling water, and sweetened. Two table-spoonfuls occasionally. Begin with one table-spoonful. POLYPUS IN THE NOSE. —Powder a lump of alum, and snuff it up frequently; then dis- solve powdered alum in brandy, dip lint therein and apply it at going to bed. POMADE.—Best lard, 4 ozs.; castor oil, 4 ozs.; white wax, 3 drachms. Melt and mix; when cool, add oil of bergamot and lav- ender, 15 drops of each. POMADE.—Olive oil, 2| ozs.; oil of almonds, £ drachm; palm oil, 1 j drachm; white wax, h ox.; lard, £ lb.; essence of bergamot, £ drachm. It is first-rate for pre- venting baldness, and strengthen- ing the hair. POMADE, Hard.—Melt in a water-bath 3 ozs. of lard; 3 ozs. of beef marrow; i\ ozs. of mutton suet; and 2 ozs. of white wax. Take off the fire ; cool a little; then add a little spirits of wine to cause it to keep, and a few drops of otto of roses. Stir till nearly cold, and turn into moulds. It may become Soft Pomade by leaving out half of the wax, the whole of the mutton suet, and doubling the beef marrow'. POMADE, Spanish.—Take equal parts of lemon juice and white of eggs. Beat well together, and place on a slow fire. Stir it till it is the thickness of soft poma- tum. Perfume with otto of roses. It is a cosmetic that renders the complexion beautiful. POMATUM.—Take 4 ozs. of beef marrow, melt it and strain; 4 ozs. of white wax ; 1 oz. of olive oil; and 20 drops of oil of rose- mary. Melt, but do not add the oil of rosemary till nearly cold. It causes the hair to grow. The . more of rosemary the better. Oils for the hair may be made by simply stirring in any of the essential oils into olive oil, oil of ben, oil of almonds, castor oil, &c. The pink and red colours are pro- duced by boiling Ihe oils and pour- ing them upon alkanet root. But it deteriorates the oils. Coloured hair oils should be avoided. POMATUM, Elder Flower.—