STO STI 405 STALE BEER, to restore.—To about a quart of stale beer, put k a tea-spoonful of salt of wormwood ; this will restore the beer, and make it sparkle when poured into a glass like bottled norter. “ STAMMERING,” Dr. Tur- ner Bays, “is caused by attempts to speak with empty lungs. In singing, the lungs are kept well inflated, and there is no stuttering. The method of cure is to require the patient to keep his lungs well filled; to draw frequent and long breaths, to speak loudly, and to pause on the instant of finding em- barrasment in his speech, taking a long inspiration before he goes on again. I cured one of the worst cases I ever knew on this principle.” STAMMERING.—Frequently read aloud with the teeth closed, and tap with the finger at every syllable pronounced. STEAM JOINTS, Red Rutty for.—Stiff white lead worked well in red lead powder. STEEL POWDER.—Take fi- lings of steel and loaf sugar, of each, 2 ozs.; ginger, 2 drachms. Pound them together. In obstruc- tions of the menses, and for strengthening the constitution, this powder is valuable. Take a tea-spoonful twice a day. STEEL, to preserve from rust. —Rub it well with a little sweet oil and Bath brick ; wipe it very dry ; warm the article at the fire, and rub it over with virgin wax. STEW.—In ajar of cold water put a shin of beef; put in salt, a few cloves, pepper, onions, celery, savoury herbs, &c. Put it into a slow oven the night before, and simmer till noon. Serve with toasted bread. STIMULATING FOMENT- ATION.—Cayenne pepper, 3 ozs.; mustard seed, just bruised, 2 ozs.; whiskey, 2 quarts. Simmer all to- gether a few minutes. Excellent external application in cholera, paralysis, palsy, rheumatism, &c. A less quantity may be made. STIMULATING LINI- MENT.—Cayenne, 1J oz.; salt, 1 table-spoonlul; spirits of wine, 2 ozs.; camphor, 1 oz. ; spirits of turpentine, £ pint. Bottle, and shako now and then during 1 day. Then add | a pint of vinegar.—It is excellent for sponging the body in cases of pain, debility, inflam- mation, rheumatism, gout, sore throat, numbness, neuralgia, &c. STINGS of BEES.—Rub the place with the newly-pressed juice of the honeysuckle. Or, wet it with extract of lead, (the liquor plumbi of the shops) and keep a rag soaked in the extract on the puncture a short time. Plarts- horn, spirits of wine, or a solution of sal-ammoniac, are sometimes effectually used. STITCH in the side.' Apply treacle spread on brown paper. STOCK, Jor Fish Soups.-Tnkc, 1 lb. of skate, 4 or 5 flounders, and 2 lbs. of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces ; cover them with water, and season them with mace, pepper, salt, and an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Sim- mer an hour and a half, closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or throe days. STOCK, for Gravy Soup. Take 20 lbs. of coarse lean beef, cut into small pieces, and put into a pot, with water to cover it. Skim well. Add pot herbs to give it the desired flavour. Season with salt and ground pepper; simmer till the meat becomes ten- der ; skim well, and strain,