CRA CRA 130 the same the yolks of two eggs; mix all together after shaking the pan round all quite hot. Serve. CRAB, dressed cold.—Empty the shells and mix the flesh with butter, vinegar, salt, white and cayenne pepper. Put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. It may be served hot by putting it into a Dutch Oven before the fire, adding a few crumbs of bread and nutmeg. Brown it nicely. CRAB, to stew.—Put the meat into a stew-pan, with half a pint of sherry, pepper, nutmeg, salt, a few crumbs of bread, the yolk of an egg well beaten, and a spoonful of vinegar. Put on a slow fire, shaking up. Serve on a plate. CRACK NUTS.—Mix Sozs. of flour, and 8 ozs. of sugar; melt 4 ozs. of butter in two spoonfuls of rasin-wine : then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste; add caraways; roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. CRACKNELS.—Mix with a quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose-water into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll in a pound of butter, and make them into a cracknel shape; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim, take out, put into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. CRAMP. — Employ friction, rubbing the part affected with the hands. A draught of camphor- jalap at night is strongly recom- mended. Stretch the heel out as far as possible, bending the toes slightly upwards. Persons subject to cramp should sleep on a mat- tress, slightly declined at the foot, and exercise caution in eating and drinking, for cramp often arises from a weak or imperfect digestion. A towel dipped in hot water ap- lied to the part, will afford imme- iate relief. But rubbing with the Stimulating Ointment is more effectual. Persons subject to cramp should keep the lower limbs warm; occasionally bathe the feet in warm water before bed-time. Keep the bowels open. CRAMP IN THE STOMACH. —Apply friction over the stomach immediately ; bathe the feet in hot water; give the Anti-Cholera Mixture, described under Asiatic Cholera; p. 112 Sometimes strong peppermint tea is effectual; if not, apply a hot brick wrapped in cloths dipped in vinegar to the stomach. Or take a tea-spoonful of sal-vol- atile in warm water immediately. CRAMP, PILLS FOR.—Cam- phor, 1 dr.; spirits of wine, 1 dr.; dissolve, and add opium, 10 grains; confection of roses to form a mass. Mix, and divide into 24 pills. Taka one every night. CRANBERRY JELLY. Make a very strong isinglass-jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice, sweeten it and boil up; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be clear. CRANBERRY AND RICE JELLY.—Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees mix into it as much ground rica as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and' sweeten to your taste. Put it in a mould, and serve to eat with milk or cream. CRANBERRY TART.-Wash the cranberries well; put them in- to the dish with the juice of half a lemon; j lb. of moist sugar to each quart of cranberries. Cover with a good paste, and then bake it 40 minutes. Five minutes before it