363 ROU ROY ous parts of the entire lot, until he comes to an honor of any kind, which being placed upright at the end, is offered to a punter or player, who puts the same into any part of the pack he thinks proper : the tailleur then separates the pack just at that part, and lays that portion of the card that was below the honor uppermost, and, taking therefrom a handful of cards, places a weight upon the remainder, and : commences to deal: he takes after- wards the other portions from the heap under the weight, as they are wanted, until the whole are dealt. He looks at the first card, and puts it face downwards: a red card and a black card are then placed back to back, and that one which is of the same colour with the first card he looked at, is placed uppermost in a conspicuous man- ner: these two cards that are placed back to back, are turned over each deal, if necessary, so that that card may be uppermost whose colour is the same as the tum-up card in each succeeding coup. When the stakes are deposited, the tailleur cries “Noir” (black), and turning up the top card, places each succeeding card in a row, un- til the number of points of those turned up shall exceed thirty; whatever number that may happen to be he declares, at “ trente et une” (one and thirty;) if above that number, he merely says, “deux, trois, quatre, cinq, six, sept, huit, neuf” (two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,) if it reaches forty, he says quar- ante. Another parcel of the cards is then dealt out for Rouge, or red, until he comes to thirty-one, or the number nearest to it; and whichever colour comes nearest to that number wins the stakes ; this the tailleur declares by saying “rouge gagne” (red wins) or “ rouge perd ” (red loses). These two parcels, one for each colour, make coup. When the same number is dealt and turned up for each, the tailleur says “apres,” (after), which forms “ un refait ” (a doublet), by which neither party loses, except it is “un refait trente et une,” then the tailleur wins half the stakes punted on each colour, which half the punters may either pay or have their stakes moved into the middle semicircles of the colour, they then choose on the table call- ed “la premiere prison,” (the first prison), to be determined by the next event whether they lose all or are set at liberty ; but if what is called “ un refait second trente etune” (a second doublet of one and thirty) should happen in the next succeeding deal, the punters lose half of their remaining moiety, or three-fourths of the stake they put down at first, and are removed into the smallest semicircle named “la seconde prison” (the second prison), and the next coup deter- mines whether the punter loses all, or is to be removed again into the first prison. At this game the banker cannot refuse any stake that does not ex- ceed his funds; which the punter declares by saying “ Je vais la Banque” (I aim at the bank.) Bankers most generally furnish punters with slips of card-paper ruled in columns, each marked N. or R. on the top, on which accounts are kept by pricking with a pin. Some bankers give up the profit of “ un refait” during the first deal. ROYAL FRITTERS.—Milk, 1 quart; put it into a saucepan, and as the milk boils up, pour in a pint of sherry. Boil up and take off for six minutes. Slum off all