328 POT POT POTATOES.—Much attention has been recently drawn to the fact, that the produce of potatoes may he much increased by pluck- ing off the blossoms from the plants producing them. This important observation has been completely confirmed by M. Teller, the direc- tor of the Agricultural Society of Darmstadt. In 1839, two fields of the same size, lying side by side, and manured in the same manner, were planted with potatoes. When the plants had flowered, the blos- soms were removed from those in one field, while those in the other field were left untouched. The former produced forty-seven bolls, the latter only thirty-seven bolls. —Liebig. POTATOES, to boil.—Boil in a saucepan without lid, with only sufficient water to cover them; more would spoil them, as the po- tatoes contain much water, and it requires to be expelled. When the water nearly boils, pour it off, and add cold water, with a good portion of salt. The cold water sends the heat from the surface to the centre of the potatoe, and makes it mealy. Boiling with a lid on, often produces cracking. > New Potatoes should be cooked soon after having been dug; wash well, and boil. The Irish, who boil potatoes to erfection, say they should always e boiled in their jackets ; as peel- ing them for boiling is only offer- ing a premium for water to run through the potatoe, and render- ing it sad and unpalatable; they should be well washed, and put into cold water. “ Stop,” says one, till I immor- talize mv dear old mother’s receipt; —“ To 'dress a potatoe, wash it well, but let there be no scraping. At the thickest end cut off a piece the size of a sixpence.” This is the safety-valve by which the steam, generated in the potatoe, escapes ; and such escape prevents cracking. Pour all the water off and let the skins be thoroughly dry before peeling. POTATOES, to escalop.—Boil the potatoes; then beat them fine in a bowl with cream, a lump of butter and salt; put them into escalop shells; smooth the top; score them; lay thin slices of but- ter on the top of them ; put them into a Dutch oven to brown before the fire. POTATOE FRITTERS. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine; beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze .of lemon, and a little nut- meg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be extreme- ly light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them; and serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert spoon- ful of peach-leaf or almond water, and some white sugar warmed to- gether : not to be served in the dish. Another way.—Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar, sifted over them. Lemon peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, should be added to the bat- ter. POTATOES, To fry. — Cut them into thin slices; fry them brown, either in butter or beef gravy, or batter. POTATOES, to mash.—Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste; then to 2 lbs. of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of butter, and stir it all well over the