FAC EYE 161 early at night, and open them early in the morning; let the mind he constantly intent on the acqui- sition of benevolent feelings. This •will scarcely ever fail to impart to the eyes an intelligent and amiable expression. EYE-SIGHT, to preserve.— Never sit long in absolute gloom, or exposed to a blaze of light.— Avoid reading SMALL PRINT. —Do not strain the eyes by look- ing at minute objects.—Do not read in the dusk, nor by candle- light or gaslight, if the eyes he disordered.—Do not permit the eyes to gaze on glaring objects, as the sun, or bright day-light, espe- cially on opening the eyes in the morning.—Do not let the curtains, walls, &c., be white; green is the best for curtains, &c.—Avoid much exposure to cold easterly winds; especially avoid intemperance, and excessive venery, which are awful- ly destructive to eye-sight. EYE WATER.—Boil lightly a spoonful of white copperas, and 3 spoonfuls of salt, in 3 pints of spring water. When it is cold, bottle it without straining. Put a drop or two in the eye morning and evening. It takes away redness and sore- ness ; it cures pearls, rheums, and often blindness. If it makes the eye smart, add more water to it. Another. — Stamp and strain ground ivy, celandine, and daisies, an equal quantity; add a little rose-water and loaf-sugar. Drop a drop or two at a time into the eye; it takes away all the inflam- mation, smarting, itching, spots, webs, &c. Or take 2 table-spoonfuls each of brandy, and rain water, and about the size of a horse-bean of camphor. Dissolve the last in the first. Valuable. EYE WATER.—Take of white vitriol, ten grains; rose, or elder flower water, eight ounces. Mix. EYE WATER.—Half a pint of the best brandy, two pints of spring water, and sugar of lead, one ounce; mix. This is a good eye- water. Or, take six ounces of Rectified Spirits of Wine, dissolve in it one drachm of Camphor, then add two small handfuls of dried Elder Flowers; infuse twenty-four hours. Bathe the forehead, over your eyes, and each temple, several times a day; meantime, dip a soft rag in stale small beer, new milk warm, and bathe each eye a few times gently morning and evening. If it is a watery humour, wet the eyelids two or three times, but be sure to shut your eyes, or it will make them smart and burn ex- cessively. It is also a good remedy for the toothache, or swelled face, bruises, &c., used as a rubefacient. EYES, Weak.— May be relieved by washing them in cold water; or dissolve four grains of sugar of lead, and crude sal ammoniac, in eight ounces of water, to which add a few drops of laudanum. With this mixture bathe the eyes night and morning. Rose water is also good for the eyes. If lime gets into the eyes, a few drops of vinegar and water will dissolve and remove it. Almond or olive oil will do away with any hot fluid that may reach the eye. Styes should be bathed with warm water, and it is as well to take an aperient. A little ointment of ci- tron and spermaceti may be used when the stye is broken. FACE-ACHE &c.-The jaws, teeth, and face, often swell, and be- come painful. It proceeds from cold.—Poultice the parts with bread or bran poultice hot. For neuralgiac pains, take half a K