MEN MEN 249 MEDICINE, disagreeable, to take.—Get your medicine into the mouth, do not swallow, nor open your mouth; then have a glass of water ready to take immediately after you take the medicine into the mouth. The moment it is swal- lowed nip the nose. This plan neutralizes the taste of the most nauseous medicine. Chloroform mixed with medi- cine, even the most bitter, neutral- izes the taste. MEDICINAL TEA. Rose- mary leaves, dried, 2 ozs.; sage, 4 ozs.; rose leaves, 4 ozs.; peach , leaves, 3 ozs.; hyssop, 4 ozs.; 1 balm, 6 ozs.; male speedwell, 4 i ozs.; agrimony, 6 ozs. A wine- glass of these mixed herbs is suffi- < cient to make 3 pints of infusion, which is made in the same manner as ordinary tea. All the above herbs may be used, or a selection made, but do not leave out balm and agrimony. If these herbs were imported from a distant re- j gion, they would fetch a high price, and he held in high estimation. Such tea will strengthen the sto- mach, and invigorate, instead of debilitating the nervous system.— See Bobinson’s Herbal on Tea, page 267. MELANCHOLY.—See Hypo- chondria. MELTED BUTTER, to make. —Cut 2 ozs. of butter into small hits, to melt more readily; put in- to the stewpan with a dessert- spoonful of flour, and two table- spoonfuls of milk. When tho- roughly mixed, add two table- spoonfuls of water; hold it over the fire, and skake it round every minute, all the time the same way, till it just begins to simmer; then let it stand quietly, and boil up. It should be as thick as good cream. MENSES, obstructed.—Be elec- trified.—tried. Or, take half a pint of strong decoction of penny- royal every night at going to bed. Or, boil five large heads of hemp in a pint of water to half. Strain it and drink it at going to bed, two or three nights. It sel- dom fails.—Tried.— Wesley. MENSTRUATION. — Men- struation is a natural secretion, of a red colour, from the womb, so named from its occurring once in a month. This periodical discharge appears to be for the pupose of keeping up sanguification, or the making of blood in the body, and a determination thereof to the womb, for the purpose of gestation. In consequence of its not appear- ing at a proper period of life, of irregularity after it has taken place, and of its being excessive, as well as at the period of its cessation, many derangements in the system occur. The interruption of the mens- trual secretion may he considered of two kinds;—the one when it does not begin to flow at that period of life in which it usually appears, which is termed Chlorosis, or Green Sickness—and the otherwhen, after it has repeatedly taken place for some time, it does, from other causes than conception, cease to return at the usual periods. Chlorosis, or Green Sickness.— Menstruation begins from thefour- teenth to the sixteenth year. But the circumstance of afemalehaving passed the age of sixteen, does not always demand medical aid. The date of puberty varies very widely, and one female may menstruate at 12, and another at 20 years of age, without the health being im- paired. As to its causes, it may arise from imperfect formation of the organs concerned in the function, from the want of due force in the action of the arteries of the womb,