RAB QUI 842 is of great service; and so is the old plan of wrapping the stocking round the throat on going to bed. A good gargle is made of sage and vinegar, with a little sal ammoniac. A little sal prunel sucked is some- times of great use. Apply a large white-bread toast half an inch thick, dipped in bran- dy, to the crown of the head till it dries. Or, swallow slowly white rose water mixed with syrup of mulberries. Or, draw in as hot as you can, for ten or twelve minutes together, the fumes of red rose leaves, or camomile flowers, boiled in water and vinegar, or of a de- coction of bruised hemp-seed. This speedily cures the sore throat, peripneumony, and inflammation of the uvula.— Wesley. QUINSY.—Roast three or four large onions. Peel them quickly, and beat them flat with a rolling- pin. Immediately place them in a thin muslin bag that will reach from ear to ear, and about three inches deep. Apply it speedily as warm as possible to the throat. Keep it on day and night, chang- ing it when the strength of the onions appears to be exhausted, and substituting fresh ones. Flan- nel must be worn round the neck after the poultice is removed. QUINSY, Vapour for a.—Take powdered pepper, 1 oz.; milk, 1 quart, and boil them to 1| pint; put the whole info a glass bottle with a small neck; let the vapour be received as hot as can be borne with the mouth open. This is about the best gargle. QUINZE.—This game, as its name implies, is a French game of fifteen up, which are to be made in the following manner: The pack of cards must be shuffled by the players, and when they have cut for deal, which belongs to him who cuts the lowest, the dealer has the privilege of shuffling last; this be- ing done, the adversary cuts, after which the dealer gives one card to his adversary, and one to himself: if his adversary does not like his card, he has a right to have as many more given him, one after the other; the pips of which will make fifteen, or come nearest to it; which are usually given from the top of the pack. For example; if he should draw a deuce and then a five, which make seven, he should go on again in hopes of coming nearer to fifteen ; if he draws an eight, which makes just fifteen, and being elder hand, he is sure of winning the game ; but if he over- draws himself, and makes above fifteen, he loses, unless the dealer does the same; in which case it is a drawn game, and they double the stakes. Thus they go on, until one of them wins the game, by standing, and being fifteen, or the nearest to it below that number. At the end of each game the cards are shuffled, and the players cut again for deal; the elder hand always having the advantage. This game is admired for its fairness and simplicity; depending entirely on chance, being soon de- cided, and not requiring that atten- tion which most other games on the cards do. RABBITS, to choose.—An old rabbit has very long and rough claws, and gray hairs intermixed with the wool. If young, the claws and wool are smooth; if stale it will be flexible, and the flesh will be bluish, having a kind of slime upon it; but if fresh, the flesh will be white and dry. RABBIT, an English.—Toast a slice of bread brown on both sides; then lay it on a plate, pour a glass of port wine over it; then cut some cheese very thin, and lay it