SOU SOU 398 slowly. When the piece of moat is cooked, or nearly so, if it is to be served, put it into a stewpan, and pour over it a little of the top of the stock; wet and wring a cloth, and run the stock through, which will then be in readiness to make soups, sauces, &c. SOUP, Grand Consomme.—Put into a pot two knuckles of veal, a piece of a leg of beef, a fowl, or an old cock, a rabbit, or two old par- tridges ; add a ladleful of soup, and stir it well; when it comes to a jelly, put in a sufficient quantity of stock, and see that it is clear; let it boil, skimming and refresh- ing it with water; season it as the above; you may add, if you like, a clove of garlic; let it then boil slowly or simmer four or five hours: put it through a towel, and use it for mixing in sauces, or clea r soups. SOUP, Julienne.—Take some carrots and turnips, and turn them riband-like; a few heads of celery, some leeks and onions, and cut them in lozenges, boil them till they are cooked, then put them in- to clear gravy soup. Brown thickening.—N.B. You may, in summer time, add green peas, as- paragus tops, French beans, some lettuce or sorrel. SOUP, Maigre.—Melt | lb. of butter in a stewpan, shake it round and throw in six middling onions, sliced. Shake the pan well for 2 or 3 minutes, then put in 5 heads of celery, 2 handfuls of spinach, 2 cabbage-lettuces, cut small, and some parsley, Shake the pan well for 10 minutes, then put in 2 quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, 3 or 4 blades of mace; add a large spoonful of white beet leaves, cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just be- fore serving beat in two yolks of eggs, and a spoonful of vinegar. SOUP, Mitonmge. Take a household loaf and rasp it lightly, cut out the crumb without break- ing it, which will answer for fly- ing to garnish spinach dishes or soups, or for a charlotte or a pan- ade; round the crusts handsomely, and let them simmer a few min- utes; before serving, put any vegetables on them, and pour over an empotage: serve it as hot as possible. SOUP, Portable.—Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of beef, and 3 lbs. of beef, in as much water only as will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, put any sort of spice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done to rags strain it off, and put it into a very cold place. When cold, take off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants’ pies); put the soup into a double-bottomed tin sauce- pan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it bum. It must boil fast and uncovered, and be stirred constantly for eight hours. Put into a pan, and let it stand in a cold place a day, then pour it into a round soup china- dish, and set the dish into a stew- pan of boiling water on a stove, and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy—then it is enough. Pour it into the little round part at tho bottom of cups or basons turned upside-down to form cakes, and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canis- ters. When they are to be used,. melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient jn tlis country, or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand, as by