265 MITT MUT round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kid- neys between. Garnish with hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on; or with different coloured pickles. MUTTON SAUSAGES.-Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled; chop the same very small, and season it with pep- per, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six ounces of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, and some of the an- chovy liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls, or sausage-shape, and frying. If approved, a little sha- lot may be added, or garlic, which is a great improvement. MUTTON, Saddle of, to roast. —Let it he well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again; take it off a quarter of an hour before serving it, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well with flour. The rump should be split, and skewered back i on each side. The joint may be ■j large or small according to the company; it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad it re- i quires a high and strong fire. MUTTON, Shoulder of, to boil 1 with Oysters.—Hang it some days, t then salt it well for two days ; bono I it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded : lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat i up tight and tie it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an a onion and a few pepper-coms, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy and some oysters stewed in it; ! thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stew- pan should be kept closely covered. MUTTON, to roll a Loin of.— Hang the mutton till tender : bone it; and lay a seasoning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare; beat the meat and cover it with the stuffing ; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half bake it in a slow oven; let it grow cold; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan; flour the meat, and put it in likewise; stew it till almost ready; and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, and anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improvement; but if to eat like hare do not use these, nor the lem- on pickle. MUTTON, Basque of.—Take the caul of a leg of veal; lay it in a copper dish, the size of a small punch bowl; take the lean of a leg of mutton that has been kept a week; chop it very small; take hah its weight in beef marrow, the crumbs of a penny loaf, the yolks of four eggs, two anchovies, half a pint of port wine, the rind of half a lemon grated; mix it like sausage meat, and lay it in your caul in the inside of your dish; close up the caul, and bake in a quick oven ; when you take out, turn the dish upside down, and turn the whole out; pour over it brown gravy, and send it up with venison sauce. MUTTON, French stealcs of a neclc of—Cut off most of the fat of a prime neck of mutton; cut the steaks two inches thick ; make a large hole through the middle of the fleshy part of every steak with a knife, and stuff it with pepper,