248 MEA MEA A joint of meat may be preserv- ed for several days, even in sum- mer, by wrapping it in a clean lin- en cloth, previously moistened with good vinegar ; hanging it up, and changing the cloth, or wringing it out afresh in vinegar, once or twice a day, if the weather be very warm. The best meat for keeping is mutton, and the best joint is a leg; which, with care, if the weather be only moderately hot, in summer, will keep about a week; in winter, if the weather be open, from 2 to 4 weeks. A shoulder is the next best joint. The scrag end of a neck keeps the worst, and in warm weather it will not keep above two days; if very warm, it becomes bad the second day. In beef, the ribs keep the best, even five or six days in summer, and in winter ten. The middle of the loin is the next best, and the rump the next. The round will not keep long unless salted. The brisket is the worst, and will not keep longer than two days in sum- mer, and six days in winter. Lamb does not keep long, and it is best to eat it soon or even the same day it is killed. The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped every day, it will then keep good three or four days in hot weather. Meat dipped into chloride of lime in a liquid state for a second will keep many days without taint; for no flies will touch it if so done. "Wash the meat before cooking it. MEAT CAKE.—According to the size, take of beef-steaks, of leg of mutton, of fillet of veal, ham and beef suet; chop all together very fine, and season with salt, fine spi- ces, chopped parsley, greenshalots, a clove of garlick, 8 yolks of eggs, half a glass of brandy, and 2 lbs. of fresh bacon, or less, cut in dice. Mix all well together. Take a stewpan, tho size you intend to make the cake, and garnish it all over with thick sizes of lard; put in the minced meat, cover close, and put in the oven for four hours. When cold, take oat of the stew- pan and scrape the lard with a knife to make it white and even. MEAT PIE, of any kind.—First fry the meat brown over a quick fire in a little drip or butter. Sea- son with pepper and salt. Then put into a pie-dish with chopped onions, or shalots, if you like, some slices of half-cooked potatoes, a little gravy, or stock, and enough water to cause the liquid to cover the meat. Cover the dish with crust, made with 2 lbs. of flour, 6 ozs. of butter, or lard, or dripping, and water enough to knead it into a stiff paste. Bake 1 j hour. (ggp Learned chemists appear to have forgotten the important fact that, if a meat pie is made without a hole in the crust to let out certain emanations from the meat, colic, vomiting, and other symptoms of slight poisoning will occur. I have known of two in- stances of large parties being af- fected in this manner from eating meat pies that had no hole in them. —Correspondent of the Lancet. MEAT and P0TATOE PUD- DING.—Boil some mealy potatoes till ready to crumble to pieces; drain; mash them very smooth. Make them into a thiclnsh batter with an egg or two, and milk, pla- cing a layer of steaks or chops well- seasoned with salt and pepper, at the bottom of a baking dish; cover with a layer of batter, and so al- ternately, till the dish is full, end- ing with batter at the top. Butter the dish to prevent sticking or burn- ing. Bake of a fine brown colour.