68 BLO BLO ounces of Brandy; two drachms of Castile Soap; Potass, one drachm ; scrape the soap fine, and dissolve it in the Brandy, add the Potass, mix, and keep well corked. Apply a little of this to a bleeding wound, and the blood will imme- diately congeal.—Wesley. BLESSED THISTLE.— See Robinson's Herbal. BLISTERS, Management of.— Spread the plaster thinly on paper, or linen, and rub over it a few drops of olive oil. In this way the blister acts speedily, and with less irritation than usual. BLISTERED FEET.—Before and after walking, wash the feet well in a solution of Sal Ammo- niac—half an ounce in two quarts of water. Let not the stocking be wrinkled, or much mended, when you walk. Easy boots and shoes should be worn, and very smooth next to the sole of the foot. Or, the best remedy for this is to rub the feet, when going to bed, with spirits mixed with tallow, dropped from a lighted candle into the palm of the hand. BLOOD-ROOT ; Sanguinaria Canadensis.—An American plant. It has great emetic and expectorant influence. It is tonic, narcotic, stimulant, emetic, according to the dose and form in which it is admin- istered. In a large dose it produ- ces nausea, &c. In small doses, it acts as a stimulant and tonic. Like digitalis, it calms the_ pulse. It is an invaluable remedy in dis- eases of the chest, lungs, and liver. Dr. Beach, of America, says, “ In plethoric constitutions, when respiration is very difflcult, tho cheeks and hands livid, the pulse full, soft, vibrating, and easily compressed, the Blood-root has done more to obviate the symptoms and remove the disease than any other remedy used. It is most useful in bleeding at the lungs, influenza, hooping-cough, and croup. It should be given in quantity to cause vomiting.” Thirty drops of the saturated alcoholic solution taken three times a day, cured a bad case of rheuma- tism in a gouty person. It is also of great benefit in Asthmatic af- fections, scarlet fever, jaundice, and female obstructions. In Wa- ter of the Chest, (hydrothorax,) doses of fifty or sixty drops should be given until nausea follows each dose. It is excellent in chest com- plaints, and excessive expectora- tion. Externally, Blood Root is a great healer of the worst sores, ulcers, ringworms, tumours, (and taken as snuff, of Polypus;)—used as a powder, or as a wash. The roots are generally used ; but the leaves have similar virtues. It is given in the form of syrup, extract, in- fusion, decoction, and tincture. As an emetic it should be com- bined with Lobelia. If infused in vinegar, its effects, as a wash, are more powerful in sores, ulcers, tetters, and ringworms. Dr. Tully asserts that in the subacute form of inflammation, which often precedes a rapid phthisis, or consumption, the cure may, in general, be trusted to San- guinaria, (Blood-root) and Opium, after the previous use of aperients. In confirmed phthisis, it is of more value, he says, in combating and palliating symptoms than any other remedy. Dr. Stevens, of Ceres, (1850) has seen the most marked benefit result from it in haemoptysis, (spit- ting of blood.) For this symptom it was employed by Dr. N. Smith, and others, with remarkable suc- cess, some years ago. As an expectorant in the first and second stage, its action is said