LOB 233 LOB effect is felt throughout the whole system. It exerts a peculiar action upon the trachea and bronchial vessels, expelling all collected mu- cus.” It must therefore be very valuable in asthma, croup, hooping cough, and consumption. The greatest benefit from it has been found in dyspepsia, coughs, asthma, liver complaints, &c. It has relieved asthmatic subjects when on the point of suffocation by accumulated phlegm, cough, &c. Also in pneumonia of infants. It is also a valuable sudorific; it relaxes the constricted pores of the skin, and premotes free perspira- tion. The leaves, seeds, and seed- vessels may be given in powder, and tincture. Dose of the powder, from a drachm, or a small tea- spoonful; of the tincture, a tea- spoonful. LOBELIA POULTICE. Linseed meal, j oz.; slippery elm, 1 oz.; powdered lobelia, 11 oz.; ginger, 1 oz.; whiskey sufficient to make it. Good for all inflamed parts, as the side in pleurisy, liver complaints, rheumatism, lumbago. LOBELIA TINCTURE. Put 1 oz. of the powdered plant to 1 quart of whiskey. Infuse 7 days. Dose, a teaspoonful when the cough is troublesome. LOBELIA, Acid Tincture of.— Lobelia herb, 1 oz.; Cayenne, 2 drs.; Vinegar, half a pint. Boil the vinegar, and put all into a bot- tle, cork well for 7 or 8 days. Dose for a cough, half a teaspoonful in any pleasant vehicle. Repeat when the cough is troublesome. It will require a larger dose for asthma or croup. LOBELIA WATER.—Lobelia leaves and capsules, or powder 1 oz.; boiling water \ pint; brandy | pint. Infuse a week.—Good for sore and inflamed eyes, erysipelas, ringworm, &c. LOBSTERS, buttered.—Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. LOBSTER, Curry of.—Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four of cream; rub smooth one or two teaspoonfuls of curry-powder, a teaspoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter: simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. LOBSTER, to pot.—Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, and season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt; press close into a pot, and cover with butter, bake half an hour; put the spawn in. When cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat other butter in a mortar with some of the spawn; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved.—Or, take out the meat as whole as you can; split the tail and remove the gut; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom ef a sieve; and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the season- ing about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day; or if highly seasoned, and thick covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold,