PEA 299 PEA PEAS,yree», to preserve.-Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils ; give them two or three warms only, and pour them in a colander. Drain, and turn them out on a cloth, and then on another to dry perfectly. When dry, bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles ; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton suet upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it down; and keep in the cellar, or in the earth, as directed for gooseberries. When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. PEAS, to boil.—Peas should not be shelled long before they are wanted, nor boiled in much water; when the water boils, put them in, with a little salt (some add a little loaf sugar, but if they are sweet of themselves, it is super- fluous); when the peas begin to dent in the middle, they are boiled enough. Strain, and put a piece of butter in the dish, and stir. A little mint should be boiled with the peas. PEAS MDSII.—Put a quart of green peas, dried mint, and salt, into a quart of water ; boil till the i peas are tender; add pepper, a bit of butter rolled in flourstir it altogether, and let it boil a few minutes; add two quarts of milk; boil 15 minutes longer; take out the mint, and serve. PEAS PUDDING. — Put a quart of split peas into a clean cloth; allow room for them to swell; boil slowly till they are tender; if the peas are good, they will be ready in 2j hours. Rub them through a sieve into a deep dish, adding an egg or two, 1 oz. of butter, pepper, and salt; beat them well together for 10 minutes ; flour a cloth, put the pudding in, tie it tight, and boil an hour longer. PEAS SOUP.—Soak a quart of split peas the night before, and boil them with a little carbonate of soda in sufficient water to allow them to break. Add three or four quarts of beef broth, and stew for one hour; then pass the whole through a sieve, and heat again. Season with salt and pepper. One or two small heads of celery, sliced and stewed in it, will be a great improvement. Peas Soup may be made as above with the addition of a little bacon and veal. PEAS SOUP, a la creme.-Boil with a little salt 5 lbs. of nice lean beef in 6 quarts of water. . When it boils, skim, and add two carrots, three whole Onions, thyme, two heads of celery, and three quarts of old green peas; boil till the meat is quite tender ; strain, and rub the pulp through a hair sieve. Split the blanched part of three Cos lettuces into four quarters, and cut them an inch long, with a little mint. Then put 1 lb. of butter into a stewpan that will hold the soup. Put the lettuce and mint into the butter, with a leek sliced thin, and a pint of green peas; stew them fifteen minutes, and shake often; then put in a little of the soup, and stew them fifteen minutes longer ; then put in the soup, and as much thick cream as will make it white. Stir till it boils. Put toasted bread or French roll at the bottom of the dish, and pour the soup over it. PEAS SOUP, with meat. Take a small knuckle of veal, or 4 lbs of coarse lean beef; chop into pieces; put on the fire in 6 quarts of water. Add 1 lb. of lean bacon steeped in vinegar an hour, mace, cloves, cayenne, a little white pep- per, sweet herbs, and parsley, and a crust of bread, toasted crisp; cover closely, and boil gently over