RAZ RED 351 It is a good thing to put gas tar in the runs and holes of rats. When once daubed with it they will come i no more. Feed them well for a week with fresh oatmeal, every day; but never touch it with your hand; put it into a dish pressed down that t you may see what quantity they have eaten. Then mix another lot, with 4 drops of oil of aniseed, or oil of rhodium ; feed with this i two or three days more. Then l give the following mixture:—To 4 j ozs. of dry oatmeal, scented with 6 drops of oil of aniseed, add \ oz. of i carbonated barytes, or nux vomicd in powder, sifted through muslin, i Mix this intimately with the scent- ed oatmeal; then lay it upon the ; slate, or, leave it 24 hours for the : rats to eat. This kills them. : Keep the mixture from dogs, cats, j or other animals, and from children. RAZOR, to sharpen.—Thesim- \ plest method of sharpening a razor i is to put it for half an hour in wa- ; ter to which has been added one > twentieth of its weight of muriatic i or sulphuric acid, and after a few i hours set it on a hone. The acid ( acts as a whetstone, by corroding s the whole surface uniformly, so t that nothing further than a smooth ? polish is necessary. RAZOR, to smooth.—Pass the | razor on the inside of your hand, | first warming it before the fire. Or j use the strap of a soldier’s knap- sack, or calf leather, on which some I fine black lead has been rubbed and consolidated to a slight surface. RAZOR STROP and PASTE. ■—It may be made of rough calf leather, two or three inches broad, or of the strap of a soldier’s knap- sack. Upon it spread powdered oxalic acid and candid snuffs, with# a little tallow. Or spread upon it crocus martis and fine tallow.— Or, emery ground as fine as pos- sible, mixed with spermaceti or fine tallow. Or, glue, half ounce; treacle, quarter ounce; steep the glue in water to soften it, and then boil both together for a few min- utes, add crocus martis, or fine emery powder, and then spread on the leather. When you use it ap- ply first a drop or two of sweet oil. RECEIPTS.—Always keep your receipts above six years. It is generally supposed that it is suf- ficient to keep receipts for six years; this is not so: the period for bringing an action on a simple contract debt being limited by an Act of Parliament, which is called the Statute of Limitations, to six years from the time the debt is due; and it may happen that the action may be commenced some time pre- vious to the expiration of the six years, without the party who is sued having any knowledge of it, so that it is unsafe to destroy re- ceipts immediately on the expira- tion of the six years; you should ' keep them for six years and a half. RED CABBAGE, to pickle.— Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, with boiling vinegar enough to cover it, and put in a few slices of beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red-cabbage. Those who like the flavour of spice will boil some pepper-corns, mustard-seed, or other spice, whole, with the vinegar. Cauliflower in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will colour a beautiful red. RED FIRE.—Forty parts of dry nitrate of strontian, thirteen parts of finely-powdered sulphur, five parts of chlorate of potash, and four partsofsulphuretof antimony. The chlorate of potash and sul- phuret of antimony should be pow- dered separately in a mortar, then mixed on paper, after which add to