CHI 110 CHI be borne. On the first appearance of this ailment, indicated by in- flammation and irritation, this bath affords relief. In the more advanced stages, repetition prevents breaking out, followed by a certain cure; and an occasional adoption will prevent a return. CHILBLAINS.—Take 1 oz. of white copperas; dissolve in a quart of water, and apply it occasionally to the affected parts. Let this be used before the chilblains break. Or, apply a poultice of roasted onions. Or, wash with a decoc- tion of horseradish made with vin- egar and water.—Or, with a little camphorated brandy. Or rub into them before the fire, a solution of white vitriol and sugar of lead. If the chilblains are broken it must not be used.—Or, take lard, 2 ozs.; turpentine, 1 oz.; camphor, £ oz.; melted together. If the parts have been frost bit- ten, keep from the fire; immerse the parts in snow or cold water; then apply brisk friction, and a little camphorated spirits. To ease the pain, apply an elm bark poul- tice, or a poultice made of wheat bran, soft soap, and table salt. Apply afterwards the black or healing salve. If unbroken, take sal ammoniac, 1 oz.; vinegar, J pint; bathe the part.—Alum and salt will do, but not so effectually—mix in vinegar and water.—If the chilblains are old, use the Stimulating Liniment. CHILBLAIN LINIMENT.— One ounce of camphorated spirit of wine, half an ounce of liquid sub-acetate. Mix, and apply in the usual way three or four times a day. Some persons use vinegar as a preventive, its efficacy may be increased by the addition of one- fourth of its quantity of camphor- ated spirit. CHILBLAIN LOTION.—Get one drachm of sugar of lead, two ditto of white vitriol, reduce them to a fine powder, and add four ozs. of water. Before using this lotion, it is to bo well shaken, then rub- bed well on the parts affected, before a good fire with the hand. The best time for application is in the evening. It scarcely ever fails curing the most inveterate chil- blains by once or twice using. It is not to be used on broken chil- blains. CHILI VINEGAR. —Infuse half an oz. of cayenne pepper and six cloves in a pint of vinegar. CHINA, to mend.—Bum oyster shells in the fire, and then reduce them to fine powder. Mix the powder with the white of egg, and lay it thickly on the edges of the broken article, and dry before a hot fire.—Some persons combine with the above white lead. Common lime finely sifted and the white of an egg, make an ex- cellent cement. The Chinese use finely ground flint glass with the white of an egg, and it is very adhesive, t&k’ The pieces to be united should be well heated. Or, mix plaster of Paris with a thick solution of gum arabic. CHIMNEYS ON FIRE.— Shut all the doors and windows; stop up the bottom of the chimney with a piece of water-saturated sacking, wraping, &c., throwing first salt, or sulphur, upon the fire. CHINE OF BACON, to boil. —Soak a chine, salted and dried, in cold water several hours. Take a handful of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, and a little sage; chop them very fine; stuff these into the chine, both in the fat and in the lean; skewer it close in a cloth. Boil slowly for two or three hours. CHINE OF PORK.—Boil it half on hour; then make holes in