274 OIL OIN September, and then peg it; and if you find it fine, and the hop well rotted, and of a pleasant taste for drinking, draw out a. gallon of it; put to it 2 ozs. of isinglass, cut very small, to melt, stirring it often, and whisking till the isin- glass is melted. Strain and put into the vessel, stirring well to- gether; bung slightly, for this will cause a small fermentation; when that is over, stop it close, leaving only the vent hole a little stopped. Let it stand, and in about 10 days, it will be transpar- ently fine. It will be a splendid ale for bottling, which may be done when the cask is half or two thirds drawn. ODOURS, Unpleasant, to re- move.—Burnt coffee is the best disinfectant, and it is very agree- able.—For water-closets, night chairs, &c. chloride of lime, and even common lime, should be used. —Or one ounce of sugar of lead, one ounce of aquafortis, in nearly one quart of water. This is effect- ual to cleanse utensils from bad odours.—Or charcoal powder, cam- phor dissolved; the articles well rinced with the composition. OIL, to make the hair curl.— Olive oil, 1 lb.; oil of origanum, 1 drachm; and oil of rosemary, lj drachm. Mix. OIL, to extract from boards.— Make a strong ley of pearl ashes and soft water, and add as much unslaked lime as will take it up; bottle closely. Scour the part with it, using water; do it quickly. Fullers earth, soap, and soda, mixed, form a good application, using with it sand and water. OIL PAINTINGS, to clem.— Wash the picture with flannel and a weak solution of soap, or with warm beer and a little soda. "When dry, apply a solution of gum tragacanth, or brown varnish. OIL PAINTINGS, to clean— If smoked, or very dirty, take stale urine, in which a little com- mon salt is dissolved; rub them over with a woollen cloth dipped in the mixture till they are clean; then with a sponge wash them over with clean water; dry, and rub over with a clean cloth. OIL PAINTINGS, Varnish j for.—Use white of egg, and sugar- candy dissolved, a tea-spoonful of brandy, all most intimately mixed, first the egg alone. Varnish the pictures with it. It is better than most varnishes, as it can be wash- ed off when the picture wants cleaning again. OILED PAPER.—Brush 1 sheets of paper over with “ boiled oil,” in which dissolve a little J shellac carefully over a slow fire, and suspend them on a line until : dry. Waterproof. Employed to ■ tie over pots and jars, and to wrap up paste blacking, &c. OIL, of Brown Paper.—Dip a piece of thick brown paper into the best salad oil. Set the paper on fire upon a plate and the oil that J drops from it is a good remedy for bums. OIL STAINS, to remove.—Ap- ply benzoin, or magnesia to both sides of the silk, satin, or stuff; apply it moistened for two or three hours, and then brush off. Re- j peat if needful. Oil stains may be removed from silks, dresses, leath- er, paper, &c., by applying pipe- clay, powdered and mixed with water to the thickness of cream; a leave it on for four hours. This will not injure the best colours. OINTMENT FOR BURNS. —Slippery elm, elder bark, scraped, yarrow tops and leaves, plantain leaves, stramonium leaves, of each 1 oz. Lard and bees’ wax, sufficient to make into ointment. It is a good ointment for the Piles also.