PEN PEP 300 a slow fire, till it is half done. Strain, and put to it a pint of green peas, lettuce, and celery, all cut small; cover closely, and stew very gently over a slow fire for two hours. In the mean time hoil a pint of peas in a pint of water very tender; strain well through a coarse sieve, and pour all the pulp into the soup; boil together, and add salt. PEAS SOUP, White.—To 6 quarts of water put a knuckle of veal, a large fowl, 1 lb. of lean bacon, and | lb. of rice, two ancho- vies, a few pepper-corns, onions, sweet herbs, and 3 heads of celery sliced. Stew all together till the soup is as strong as you like it; then strain through a hair sieve into a earthen pot; let it stand all night; take off the scum, and pour it off clear; add J lb. of Jordan al- monds,beaten fine; boil a little, and then strain. Put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. PENCIL DRAWINGS, to fix. Dissolve white resin in spirits of wine; lay the pencil drawing on its face upon a sheet of clean pa- per, and brush the back of the drawing with the solution. This penetrates through the paper, and as the spirit evaporates, the resin is deposited as a varnish on the drawing. It does not cockle the paper, which watery solutions will do; and as the brush only passes over the back of the drawing, none of the pencil marks are in any de- gree removed. Pencil, or Chalk Drawings, to fix.—Immerse the drawing in a weak solution of isinglass ; allow- ing no part of the drawing to re- main without the isinglass passing over it, or it will look spotty. Drain it, by holding the drawing up by one end over a plate. PENNYROYAL.—This plant is perennial. It flowers in August and September. It is warm, pun- gent, aromatic, stimulating, and diaphoretic; like spearmint, but not so agreeable. It contains a volatile oil which is obtained by distillation. The infusion is warm- ing to the stomach, and allays sickness. It relieves spasms, hys- terics, flatulency, and colic, and promotes expectoration in dry con- sumptive coughs. It promotes perspiration, and is most valuable in obstruction of the menses. PENNYROYAL WATER.— Pennyroyal leaves, dry, 1| lb.; water, from li to 2 gallons. Draw off by distillation, one gallon. It is a specific remedy for female ob- structions. It is good for gout, rubbing the parts with it till they are red ; and if salt be added, it is good for the side in liver com- plaints. It is very warming to the stomach,produces perspiration, and therefore is good for coughs, asthma, &c. An infusion of the herb in hot water is nearly as good. PEPPER POSSET ; once so highly esteemed for the cure of colds, &c. Put a dozen pepper- corns, or a dozen allspice, into a pint of milk, and let it simmer slowly; when it boils, pour in a gill of sherry, and let all boil till the curd becomes hard; strain off the whey, and drink it hot. PEPPER POT.—Into 3 quarts of water, put what vegetables you like; cut them very small, and stew them with 2 lbs. of neck of mutton, and 1 lb. of picked pork, till tender. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster, or crab, from the shell, and put it in. Sea- son with salt and cayenne. Small suet dumplings may be boiled in the same liquid. Instead of mutton, a fowl may be used. Pepper-pot may be made of various things. It is a proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vege-