103 CHA CHE 10 gallons ; citric acid, 1 oz.; honey 1 lb. Boil the water and sugar half an hour. Ferment with good yeast. When the fermentation is nearly over, add 2 quarts of brandy. Bung well for 2 months. Then bottle, and put a lump of white sugar into each bottle. Cider will resemble champagne, if you put a teaspoonful of carbon- ate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of fine sugar, and a table-spoonful of brandy in a tumbler, and fill it up with sharp cider. CHANTILLY TRIFLE.-Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom, put in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry jam, and then put on a high whip. CHAPPED HANDS. Rub them night and morning with raw Linseed Oil. CHAPPED HANDS.—Rub a little Glycerine, (which can be bought at any Chemists,) with a little Borax, upon your hands at night, and wear gloves in bed. CHAPPED HANDS, &c. Wash with soft soap, mixed with red sand.—Or, wash them in sugar and water.—Or apply a little sal prunello.—Wesley. CHAPPED LIPS.—Clarified honey, a table-spoonful; pour a few drops of rose or lavender wa- ter into it. Apply it to the lips often. Or, honey, 1 oz.; lith- arge and myrrh, each \ oz.; melt, and perfume ; cork well. Hu. CHARCOAL, useful properties of-—AH sorts of glass vessels and other utensils may be purified from bad smells by rincing them out with charcoal powder, after the grossest i mpurities ha ve been scour- ed off with sand and potash. Rub- bing the teeth, and washing out the mouth with charcoal powder will render the teeth beautifully white, and the breath perfectly sweet. Putrid water is immediately de- prived of its smell by charcoal. CHARCOAL MEDICINE.— It is much used in Mexico, and in South America, where few drugs are procurable, save those “simples” which the ingenuity and experience of the Indian Herb- alists have devised. Freshly-burnt Charcoal, reduced to powder and given in water, is in great repute. It immediately removes offensive odours from intestinal and renal discharges, and purifies the breath, it removes offensive exhalations from any part of the body, either given in water, or in the form of pills, made up in wheat flour, or gum mucilage. It removes pains about the right shoulder caused by obstructions of the liver. As an antiacid, either alone, or combined with rhubarb, and carbonate of soda, it speedily and permanently removes heartburn. Charcoal is a powerful antiseptic, removing, or checking decay, and must be very valuable in the incipient stages of consumption. CHEESE, as iced butter.— Boil a pint of good cream a few minutes with rasped lemon-peel, and a table-spoonful of orange flower water; when taken off the fire, add 12 yolks of eggs, well beaten up; mix all together; sift, and put into an icing pot to freeze; whisk it like ices; ice it so that you may take it up with a spoon to serve like pats of butter stamped, and bits of clean ice appear between as crystals. CHEESE, to stew.—Cut best Cheshire cheese very thin; lay it in a toaster; set it before the fire; pour a glass of ale over it; let it stand till it is like a light custard. Serve on toasts hot. CHEESE, to stew. -Cut a