SKY SLE 3S7 9. If an apponent takes up tlie bowl in order to prevent it running amongst tlie pins, and it slips out of his hand and hits any of the pins, he loses one. 10. If a person tipping, gives a sweep round with his hand and brings down any pin with his hand or sleeve, it is unfair; he loses one. 11. Care should be taken in tip- ping not to jump into the frame immediately after, as in this case the player is not allowed any of the pins he tips. If the player bowls and tips for a limited number, at the close of the game, and throws down more than are wanted, he must go for nine. 13. In all grounds where these rules are observed, a disinterested person is generally appointed to score the game; and should any dispute occur where the case varies from any here mentioned, his de- cision is to be taken, and consider- ed final. SKYROCKETS, Composition for.—1. If under 1 inch bore, nitre, 15 parts; charcoal, 6 parts ; sulphur, 4 parts; meal powder, 3 parts ; steel filings, 5 parts. Mix. 2. If over 1 and under 2 inches, nitre, 16 parts ; charcoal, 8 parts; sulphur, 4 parts; steel filings, 5 parts. Mix. 3. If three quarter inch or un- der, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 4 arts ; sulphur, 3 parts ; cast-iron orings, 4 parts. Mix. 4. If over 1 inch and under 2 i inches bore, nitre, 16 parts ; char- coal, 4 parts; sulphur, 4 parts; iron borings, 5 parts. Mix. 5. If under three quarter inch bore, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 7 parts; sulphur, 4 parts; gunpow- der, 1 part. Mix. 6. If over three quarters and under one and a half inch bore, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 8 parts; sulphur, 4 parts. Mix. 7. If larger, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 9 parts; sulphur, 4 parts. Mix. SLEEP.—Dr. Marshall Hall gives the following observations on sleep:— That early rising may be bene- ficial, it is necessai'y that we should retire early, and on rising be prop- erly employed. Every person should be allowed to have his sleep out; otherwise the duties of the day cannot be properly performed, and will be slighted even by the most consci- entious. To children, young persons, stu- dents, persons of sedentary occupa- tions, and invalids, the fullest sleep that the system will take, without artificial means, is the very balm of life. Never wake up children, or the sick and infirm, of a morning—it is barbarity; let them wake of themselves. Do not hurry up the young and healthy; and it is not well even for adults, if they have passed an unusually fatiguing day, to jump out of bed the moment they wake up. It is best to remain in bed, without going to sleep again till the sense of weariness gradu- ally passes away. At ten o’clock at night, when possible, all the year round, the old, the middle-aged, and the young should be in bed ; and then the early rising will take care of itself, with the invaluable accom- - paniment of a fully rested body and a renovated mind. SLEEPLESSNESS. Avoid previous mental excitement by lis- tening to startling accounts,reading romances, putting yourself in pas- sion, &c.—Avoid heavy suppers. To sleep well all night—let your supper be light.—Go to bed early,