POT POT 329 fire. Either serve them thus, or place them in the dish in a form, and then brown them before the fire. They may be placed in moulds, and browned. They are some- times coated with white or yolk of 0°’^. VOTATO PASTY.—Boil, and peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible ; mix them with salt, pep- per, and a good bit of butter. Make a paste; roll it out thin like a a large puff, and put in the pota- toe; fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake in a moderate oven. POTATO PIE. Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices; season them ; and also some mut- ton, beef, pork, or veal, and a lump of butter. Put layers of them and of the meat. A few eggs boiled and chopped fine, improves it. POTATOES in PLENTY.— A farmer planted four potatoes in April, in two of which he inserted a bean, and a pea in each of the other two. The peas and beans produced a good crop, and the po- tatoes were free from disease. One of the potatoes produced 58 tubers, the second 30, the third 29, and the fourth 25. POTATO PUDDING.—Take £ lb. of boiled potatoes, 2 ozs. of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, a mor- sel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon; beat all to froth; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, put 3 ozs. more butter, sweetmeats and almonds, and another egg. POTATO PUDDING with MEAT Boil till they are fit to mash; rub through a colander, and make into a thick batter with milk, and two eggs. Then lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter; and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter. Bake a fine brown. POTATO RIBBONS. Cut the potatoes into slices, rather more than half an inch thick, and then pare round and round in very long ribbons. Place them in a pan of cold water, and a short time before wanted, drain them from the water. Fry them in hot lard, or good dripping, until crisp and browned; dry them on a soft cloth, pile them on a hot dish, and season with salt and cayenne. POTATOES, roasted under the meat.—These are very good; they should be nicely browned. Half boil large mealy potatoes ; put in- to a baking dish, under the meat roasting; lade the gravy upon them occasionally. They are best done in an oven. POTATO ROLLS.—Boil three lbs. of potatoes; crush and work them with two ozs. of butter, and as much milk as will cause them to pass through a colander; take half a pint of yeast and half a pint of warm water; mix with the po- tatoes ; pour the whole upon 5 lbs. of flour; add salt; knead it well; if too thick, put to it a little more milk and warm water; to stand before the fire an hour to rise; work it well, and make it into rolls. Bake half an hour. POTATO ROT. —Take the apples that grow on the potato plant, when fully ripe ; cut them open; take out the small seeds, and dry them ; keep them till the spring; then sow them in beds, like onions ; they will be small at first; plant again next season, when they will be large and good, and entirely free from disease. This requires to be done at least every fourth season. This plan has been adopted by several far- mers with complete success, ever since the potato disease commenced.