213 JAU JAU fives; it acts upon the whole ali- mentary canal, chiefly on the small intestines, increasing the peristal- tic action, the secretions, and ex- halations ; and it is useful in bili- ous and dropsical complaints; in low spirits, melancholy, worms, &c. It is given in doses of ten to thirty grains. For worms it is combined with calomel; and for dropsy, with cream of tartar. Mixed with su- gar in small doses, it is a safe purge for children. JAPAN INK.—Aleppo galls, \ lb; logwood chips, and copper- as, of each 4 ozs.; gum arabic, 3 ozs.; sugar, 1 oz.; blue vitriol, and sugar-candy, of each £ oz. Boil the galls and logwood in 6 quarts of water till reduced one half; strain; add the other in- gredients. Stir, until dissolved. Clear, and bottle. If it does not shine enough, add more gum; all so a few cloves to prevent mould. JAPANNER’S COPAL VAR- NISH.—Copal, picked, 5 pounds; linseed oil, 20 ounces. Melt and digest until dissolved, then with- draw it from the fire and add oil of turpentine, 6 pounds. Well mix. JAPANNER’S GOLD SIZE. —Gum ammoniac, 1 pound; boil- ed oil, 8 ounces; spirits of turpen- tine, 12 ounces. Melt the gum, then add the oil, and lastly the spirits of turpentine. JARGON EL PEARS, to pre- serve.—Pare the fruit very thin, simmer them in a thin syrup. In two days make the syrup richer; simmer again, and repeat till they are clear; drain, and dry in the sun, or in a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in a syrup, and dried as wanted. JAUNDICE.—FromtheFrench word, janne, yellow. This disease is known by the yellow colour of the eyes, skin, and urine. The stools are either white or grey, caused by the absence of bile; and there is often pain in the right side, arising from the state of the liver; also, mental depression, constipa- tion, headache, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting. Jaundice is caused by obstructed secretion, or by a reab- sorption of the bile. Hence it ap- pears that the yellowness of the skin is produced by bile taken up into the circulation, the effect of those causes. When large gall- stones get into the gall-ducts, they cause jaundice, and very severe pain. When they pass away, a cure soon takes place. Should the colour of the skin become very dark-coloured, it is an indication of some incurable organic disease of the liver. Treatment.—Those means must be used which will promote the se- cretions, and the regular flow of bile. Give an aperient composed of senna, camomile flowers, ginger, and powdered jalap, of each 1 oz. Mix. Take half a teaspoonful in a little warm tea. After it has op- erated, give the common Emetic, page 155. Keep the bowels always gently open; and give the Liver Pill. Dr. Beech says, ‘ In obstinate cases, the barberry root, cut up, and infused in cider, may be taken, and the purgative repeated, and the emetic also, if necessary. Com- mon soot (he must mean wood- soot, peculiar to America) scraped from the chimney, enclosed in lin- en, and boiled in water, makes a liquid which will be found very efficacious ; it may be taken alter- nately with the other medicines.” If the pain on the right side is severe, use fomentations of the de- coction of hops. Use the vapour bath, and take some of the Sudor- ific Powder; for such means tend to relax the biliary duct, that the gall-stones may pass away. Let