MUT 2G6 MUT Balt, and nutmeg mixed up with the yolk of an egg. When stuffed, wrap them in writing paper, and put them in a Dutch oven; set them before the fire to broil; they will take nearly an hour; put a littlo brown gravy in tho dish, and serve them in the papers. MUTTON, Hotcli Botch.—Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks sea- soned, of a nice brown: three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, aud the vegetables over them; stew them, and serve all together in a tureen. . Another.—Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with vege- tables as above; to both add a bit of butter rolled in flour. MUTTON, to hash.—Cut thin slices ef dressed mutton, fat and lean; flour them; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three spoonfuls of water; add to it a little gravy and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of cur- rant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agreeable fla- vour of venison, if the meat be fine. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. MUTTON, to harrico a neck of. —Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into chops, in single ribs; flour them, and fry them a light brown; put them into a large sauce-pan, with two quarts of wa- ter, a large carrot cut in slices, cut at the edge like wheels. When they have stewed 15 minutes, put in two turnips, cut in square slices, the white part of a head of celery, a few heads of asparagus, two cab- bage lettuces fried, and cayenne to your taste; boil all together till they are tender. Tho gravy is not to be thickened. Put into a • tureen or soup-dish. MUTTON, to hash.—Cut the meat into small thin pieces; boil the bones with an onion, a few sweet herbs, a blade of mace a lit- 1 tie whole popper, salt, and a piece of crust toasted very crisp; boil till there is just enough for sauce; strain it and put into a saucepan with a piece of butter rolled in flour; then put in the meat; and when it is hot, it is done enough; season with pepper and salt; have ready some thin bread toasted brown, and cut three-comerways; i lay them in the dish, and pour overthehash; garnishwithpickles and horse radish. MUTTON BROTH. — Take the scrag end of a neck of mutton; chop it into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan, and fill it with i water; set it over the fire, and when the scum begins to rise, take it clean off, and put in a blade or two of mace, a little French barley, or a crust of white bread, to thick- en it. When the mutton is boiled, so that it will shake to pieces, . strain the broth through a liair sieve; skim off the fat, and serve with dry toast. MUTTON CHOPS.—Rub the chops with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little parsley; roll each chop in white paper well buttered on the inside, and rolled at each end close; have some hog’s lard, or beef drip, boiling in a stewpan; put in the chops, fry them of a fine brown; lay them in a dish, and garnish with fried parsley; throw some all over and serve them hot. MUTTON COLLOPS.—Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung; and cut from the part next the leg, some collops very | thin. Take out the sinew. Sea- son the collops with salt, pepper, |