Bauce: goose-berry sauce for a green goose. GOOSE SAUCE.—For Roast- ed Goose, Ruck, or Pork..—Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper, in a large wine-glassful of claret, or good port wine ; pour it into tbe goose just before serving up. Hu. GOOSEBERRIES, to Bottle.— Gooseberries picked green from tbe trees into bottles, corked tightly, and buried in tbe eartb, the corks downwards, are as good at Christ- mas as if freshly picked from the trees. The old Red Rough and the Warrington (both red) are best for preserving; the white or green are best for bottling. GOOSEBERRIES, to preserve. —The old English boiling berry, and the rough reds are the best. Take 8 lbs of fruit, and 6 lbs. of loaf sugar. Boil 40 or 50 minutes, skimming well. Some prick each berry with a needle. Jar the same as other fruits. GOOSEBERRY CREAM.— Boil them in milk till soft; beat them, and strain the pulp through a coarse sieve. Sweeten cream with sugar to your taste; mix with the pulp; when cold, place in glasses for use. GOOSEBERRY FOOL.—Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good sugar; set the jar in a sauce- pan of water over the fire. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a colander; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cupful of raw cream, boiled together, or two or three eggs, instead of the latter, and left to be cold; then sweeten it pretty well with fine sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it.—A table- spoonful of orange-flower water, a seasoning of cloves, cinnamon, or nutmeg, greatly improve it. GOOSEBERRY JAM.—Put 12 lbs. of the ripe red hairy goose- berries gathered dry, into a pre- serving pan with a pint of cun-ant juice ; boil quick, beat them with the spoon; when they begin to break, put to them of sugar 6 lbs. and simmer slowly to a jam; it requires long boiling or it will not keep. It is not expensive, but it is excellent for tarts or puffs. Do not bum the bottom. Another.—Gather your goose- berries, (the clear white or green sort when ripe; top and tail, and weigh them; a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil and skim the sugar and water; then put in the fruit, and boil gently till clear ; then break and put in- to small pots. GOOSEBERRY JELLY. — Make as cun-ant jelly; or it may be made of green gooseberries, the same as apple jelly. GOOSEBERRY PIE. —Pick and wash the gooseberries; dry them well; let the dish be three parts full of the gooseberries; fill up with sugar; cover with a nice puff paste. Put in a small cup in- verted, to prevent the syrup esca- ping. Some line the dish with puff paste ; but a cover is gener- ally sufficient. Bake in a moder- ate oven 40 minutes. A. N. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING, to bake.—Scald the gooseberries till they are soft; drain; when cold, squeeze the juice through a sieve with a wooden spoon; add | lb. of sugar, \ lb. of butter, 4 ozs. of Naples biscuits ; beat well six eggs; mix all together, beat 15 minutes; pour into an earthen dish with or without paste. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. —Chop fine J lb. of beef suet; roll it well into about 1 lb. of flour; then mix with cold water till it be-