MUS MUS 261 Tie down with bladder, and keep ft in a dry place or in paper. MUSHROOMS, to fricassee.— Peel and scrape the inside of the mushrooms; put them into salt and water; if buttons, rub them with flannel; take them out, and boil them with fresh salt and wa- ter ; when they are tender, put in a little shred parsley, an onion stuck with cloves, (or both separ- ately, and chopped); toss them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a little flour. You may put in three spoonfuls of thick cream, and a little nutmeg cut in pieces; but mind to take out the nutmeg and onion before serving. MUSHROOM KETCHUP.— Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and strew them now and then for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, till there is a thick scum over ; strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black pepper, mace, ginger, a clove 1 or two, and some mustard seed. When cold, bottle it, and tie a d bladder over the cork; in three :i months boil it again with some . fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. Mushroom Ketchup, another usay.—Take a stewpan full of the large-flap mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you have pickled; throw a handful of salt among them, and set them by a slow fire; they will produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain, and put to it four ounces of shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of | pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a i few bay-leaves, boil and skim very i well. When cold, cork close. In two months boil it up again with ! a little fresh spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep for a year; which mushroom ket- chup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. MUSHROOM POWDER. — Take the thickest largest buttons ; peel them, cut off the rotten end, but do not wash them; spread them separately on pewter dishes, and put in a slow oven to dry ; let the liquor dry into the mushrooms, for it makes the powder stronger; continue in the oven till they can be powdered; then beat them up in a mortar, and sift them through a fine sieve, with a little cayenne pepper and pounded mace; bottle, and keep in a dry place. MUSK JULAP.-Rub * drachm of musk well together with v oz. of sugar; gradually add simple cinnamon and peppermint water, each 2 ozs., and two drachms of volatile aromatic spirit. In the low state of nervous fe- vers, hiccupping, convulsions, and other spasmodic affections, two table-spoonfuls of this julap may be taken every two or three hours. MUSLINS, to lceep a good col- our.—Never wash muslins, or any kind of cotton goods with linen; for the latter discharges a kind of gum, and colouring matter, every time it is washed which discolours the muslin and cotton—wash them by themselves. MUSLINS, Uninflammable.— Mix with starch about the same weight of carbonate of lime, com- monly called Spanish white or Spanish chalk. It does not deteri- orate the appearance or injure the material of the muslin. MUSTARD.—This plant is both culinary and medicinal. As a condiment it is generally used and esteemed. As a cataplasm or poultice, it is made thus;—pow- dered mustard seed, 4 ozs.; vine- gar, as much as is sufficient to mix it for a plaster; it is stronger by adding horse radish, scraped, 2 ozs.