DIU 145 DIS v coal in the bowl, drop a little tar upon the coal, and let the patient draw smoke into the mouth, and discharge it through the nostrils. The remedy is safe and simple. DISCOUNT TABLE. d. 6 per £ 71 per cent 2\ is 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 71, 10 , 121 , 15 , 171, 20 , 22i, 25 , 30 , 35 s. 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 6 7 9| 0 2? 6 0 6 0 6 0 6 0 0 0 DISCUTIENT OINTMENT. —Deadly Night shade, Bark of Bitter-sweet root, Cicuta leaves, Stramonium leaves, of each 3 ozs.; lard, 11 lb. Bruise and simmer the roots in spirits; then add the lard, and simmer till the ingredi- ents are crisp, and strain. A great i disperser of scrofulous and gland- ulor swellings. DISEASE, Indications of.— Disease sometimes attacks sudden- ly ; sometimes it comes on slowly. Irritation and inflammation make themselves understood at once. Mental depression is often a sign of failing health. Fevers have four stages:— 1. The forming stage, charac- terised by a feeling of weariness, aching of the limbs, pain in the back, loss of appetite and sleep, and depression of spirits. 2. The cold stage. A chill over the entire body is felt, with drow- siness, prostration, and sometimes i by sickness. 3. The hot stage, when heat follows the cliilness, and tho skin becomes flushed and dry. Great headache prevails, restlessness, in- tense thirst, nausea, and light and sound give pain. 4. The last stage, in favourable cases, is marked by perspiration and by some relief from pain. The state of the tongue indicates health or disease. Florid redness is a sign of dyspepsia; a livid or purple tongue, shews obstruction in the circulation, or lungs; a white tongue denotes a weak and impoverished state of the blood; a furred tongue is common to some people even when in health, but when there are bright red points perceptible beneath the fur, fever is present; a tongue with red edges and furred in the middle is a sign of intemperance, or brain disorder. DISINFECTANTS. The most effectual and agreeable is Coffee. Even the smell of musk and castor, which cannot he over- powered by any other substance, is completely dispelled by the fumes of coffee. Powder the beans well in a mortar, and strew the powder over a heated shovel or iron plate. Carry it up and down the house to neutralize all offensive smells. Or, in a quart of water dissolve three ounces of sugar of lead, and then add three ounces of aquafortis. Shake up well. It is efficacious, in removing offensive smells from chamber utensils. Sprinkle the place or room infected, or hang up cloths dipped in it. See Chlo- ride of Lime. Or, saltpetre, 6 drachms, sulphuric acid, 1 oz.; add the acid very slowly. Stir oft, that it may be diffused.—It pre- vents infection in fevers. DIURETICS.—Medicines in- creasing the secretion of the urine. DIURETIC DECOCTION.— Queen of the Meadow, Wild Car- rot Seed, Spearmiut, Milkweed, Dwarf Elder, Juniper-berries, of j