FLU 168 FLOWERS, to extract essence from. — Take any flowers you choose; place a layer in a clean earthen pot, and over them a layer of tine salt. Repeat the process until the pot is filled, cover closely, and place in the cellar. Forty days afterwards, strain the essence from the whole through a crape by pressure. Put the essence thus expressed in a clear bottle, and ex- pose for six weeks in the rays of the sun and evening dew to purify. One drop of this essence will com- municate its ordour to a pint of water. FLOWERS, to preserve in wa- ter.—Mix a little saltpetre or a little carbonate of soda with water, and it will preserve the flowers for a fortnight. FLOWERS, token faded to re- vive.— Put one-third of the stalk in hot water till it is cold. Then cut off the end of the stalk, and put in cold water in which a little saltpetre has been dissolved. It acts like magic. FLUMMERY.-Put 1 oz. each of bitter and sweet almonds into a basin; pour boiling water upon them to remove the skins; place the kernels in cold water a little; then beat in a mortar with rose- water ; afterwards put them into a pint of calf-feets’ stock; sweeten with loaf sugar. When it boils, strain; cool, and add a pint of thick cream, and stir till it is thick and cold; wet the mould and pom- in the flummery. In five or six hours turn out. Constant stir- ring is essential to preserve the figures of the moulds, and the clearness of the flummery. FLUMMERY, Drench.-Cream, 1 quart, isinglass, 4 oz., beat it fine, and stir it into the cream; boil gently over a slow fire 15 minutes, stirring all the time; take off; sweeten to taste; add a FOO spoonful each of rose and orange- flower water; porn- into a glass or mould, and when cold, turn it out. FLUX.—Castor oil, 4 ozs.; gum arabic, two table-spoonfuls; gum kino, 1 table-spoonful; laud- anum, 1 tea-spoonful; water, 1 pint; mix, and take a table-spoon- ful three or four times a-day. It is unfailing in most cases. FLY PAPERS.-Melt 4 ozs. of resin with 2 ozs. of treacle, and 1 drachm of Venice turpentine. Spread on sheets of paper. FOMENTATION, Decoction for.—Take tops of wormwood, and oak bark, and camomile flowers dried, each, two ounces. Boil in two quarts of water. Pour off the liquor, and then add French bran- dy, or spirit of wine, as the case may require. Hu. FOMENTATION, Aromatic. —Take of Jamaica pepper, half an ounce; red wine, a pint. Boil them a little, and then strain the liquor. This is intended not only as a topical application for exter- nal complaints, but also for reliev- ing internal parts. Pains of the bowels which accompany dysen- teries, and diarrhoeas, flatulent col- ics, uneasiness of the stomach, and retching to vomit, are frequently abated by fomenting the abdomen and region of the stomach with a warm liquor. FOMENTATION, Soothing.- Take 3 ozs. each of Hops, Hore- hound, Tansy, Wormwood, and 2 ozs. of Poppy Heads. Make a de- coction by boiling in equal parts of vinegar and water.—Excellent for removing pain, caused by dis- locations, contusions, sprains, and other causes. It may also be use- fully employed in inflammation of the bowels, and all inflammations. FOOT SPRAINS.—Slide the fingers under the foot, and having greased both thumbs, press them