PAN PAP 291 PANCAKES, Cream.-Wix two eggs, well beaten, with a pint of cream, 3 ozs. of sifted sugar, 6 ozs. of flour, a teaspoonful mixed of cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace. Fry the pancakes thin with a piece of butter. PANCAKES, fine. — Cream, half a pint; sherry, half a pint; the yolks of 18 eggs beaten fine, and a little salt; sugar, J lb. ; a little ground cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg ; put in as much flour as will spread thin over the pan, and fry them in fresh butter. This sort of pancake will not be crisp, hut very good. PANCAKES fined without but- ter.—Beat six fresh eggs very well; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, 4 ozs. of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pan- cake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; pour in the batter to make thin pancakes. PANCAKES, /ra/i.-Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste ; set 3 ozs. of fresh but- ter on the fire; stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are ut to it: then mix smooth almost alf a pint of flour. Fry the pan- cakes very thin; the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. PANCAKES, pinlc, &c.—Boil some beet-root till tender, and heat it fine in a mortar; add the yolks of four eggs, two spoonfuls of flour, and three of cream; ^ sweeten, grate in half a nutmeg, a' and add a glassful of brandy; mix v all well together, and fry the pan- a cakes in butter; garnish them i with green sweetmeats or sprigs of I myrtle. PANCAKES, nice.-Boil Jib. of rice to a jelly in a little water; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg grated ; stir in 8 ozs. of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. PAPER, to render fireproof and waterproof.—Professor Mus- champ, of Wurtemberg, advises the following:— Take 26 ozs. of alum, and 4 ozs. of white soap, and dissolve them in a quart of water; into another vessel dissolve 2 ozs. of gum ara- bic, and 1 oz. of glue in the same quantity of water as the former, and add the two solutions together, which is now to be kept warm, and the paper intended to be made waterproof dipped into it, passed between rollers and dried; or with- out the use of rollers, the paper may be suspended until it is per- fectly dripped, and then dried. The alum, soap, glue, and gum form a kind of artificial leather, which protects the surface of the paper from the action of water, and also renders it somewhat fire- proof. A second immersion makes it still better. PAPER-HANGINGS to clean. Rub them gently down with a cnist of bread, or with stiff dough; the flock papers should not be treat- ed this way, but brushed with a soft clothes brush. Or, rub the paper well with a flannel cloth dipped in oatmeal. PARAFINE, Explosive.—Mr. W. Herapath, of Bristol, makes the public acquainted with an easy method of proving whether para- fine oil is dangerous or not. Let two or three drops be allowed to fall upon a plate or saucer, and apply to them a lighted match ; if the flame spreads over the surface