WAS 441 WAS WARTS.—These may be cured by daily touching the top of the wart with the pure Tincture of the Minis Toxicodendron, or Poison Oak, which grows in North America. It is sold by the Ho- moeopathic Chemists. The ap- plication should be continued for a few weeks. Or touch them frequently with blue vitriol, or nitric acid, or chloride of zinc.—A bit of impure potass, moistened, should be applied to the warts, a few minutes, so as to leave a whitish paste upon them; put over it a sticking plaster for a week. Repeat, if needed. WARTS.—Rub them daily with a radish. Or, with juice of marigold flowers : it will hardly fail. Or, water in which sal-am- moniac is dissolved. Or, apply bruised purslain as a poultice, changing it twice a-day. It cures it in seven or eight days.— Wesley. Or, steep in vinegar and salt the rind of a lemon, and apply it to the wart, first the outer side, and then the inner ; keep on for two hours, and change. Or rub the wart now and then with elixir of vitriol; apply with a bit of wood. WASH for Cleansing and Pre- venting the Hair from falling off. —Take three handfuls of rose- mary leaves, a small lump of com- mon soda, and 1| drachm of cam- phor. Put in a jug, with a quart of boiling water, and cover closely, to keep the steam in. Let it stand for twelve hours, then strain it, and add a wine-glassful of rum. This will keep good for six months in bottles well corked, and a piece of camphor in each. If the hair falls off much, the wash ought to be applied to the roots, with a piece of sponge, every other day. WASH for a blotched face. Rose-water, 3 ozs., sulphate of zinc, I drachm. Mix. Wet the face with it, gently dry it, and then touch it over with cold cream, which also dry gently off. WASH, for the arm-pits after sweating.—One quart of spring water ; tincture of myrrh, 1 oz.; sulphate of zinc, J oz. Mix, and sponge. WASHING, made easy.—One of the best bleaching and emo- lient agents in washing either the person or clothing, is common re- fined borax. Dissolve in hot wa- ter, half a pound to ten gallons; a great saving in soap is effected by its use. The borax should be pulverized first. It may be pro- cured in the form of crystals at any druggist’s; it will not injure the most delicate fabric; and laces or other fine tissues may be wash- ed in a solution of borax with ad- vantage to colour, &c. WASHING, ready and effec- tual mode of.—Dissolve l lb. of soap in 3 quarts of boiling water, the night before washing. Begin- ning to wash, put the soap into the dolly tub, add 8 table-spoon- fuls of spirits of turpentine, and 6 ditto of hartshorn. Pour upon the above 8 gallons of boiling wa- ter. Have the clothes ready as- sorted ; begin with the fine ones. Dolly each lot about five minutes, wash them in hot water in another dolly-tub, if you have it, next in blue water.—When the water is getting cool, put it into the boiler to boil kitchen towels, or any greasy things. N. B.—The quicker the wash- ing is done the better. As soon as one lot is taken out of the dolly tub, put another in whilst the others are being rinsed. A little pipe-clay dissolved in the water employed in washing linen cleans (he dirtiest linen entirely,