DOM 146 DRA each, 2 ozs. Bruise, and boil a short time in two quarts of water. Very useful in gravel aud dropsy. A cupful to be taken occasionally. DIURETIC DROPS.—Tinc- ture of Kino, £ oz. ; Balsam of Co- paiba, Spirits of Turpentine, of each 1 oz.; Sweet Spirits of Nitre, 2 ozs.; Queen of the Meadow, 1 oz. Mix, and add 1 scruple of Camphor. Take nearly a tea- spoonful in mucilage. Most val- uable for scalding urine, inflamma- tion of the kidneys, &c. DIURETIC INFUSION.— Parsley seeds, £ oz.; Cleavers, f oz.; Burdock seeds, f oz.; Cool- wort, f oz.; Spearmint, |oz. ; Ju- niper berries, f oz.; Linseed, \ oz.; Gum Arabic, J ounce. Pour upon these two quarts of boiling water; infuse two or three hours, covering the vessel. Strain, and add half a pint of best gin, 4 ounces of ho- ney, and three table-spoonfuls of Slippery Elm. This is a most valuable diuretic; it is cooling, and allays all urinary affections, gravel, scalding of urine, and it causes an easy and sufficient flow of the same. DIURETIC PILLS.—Calcin- ed Magnesia, 1 drachm; Solidi- fied Copaiba, 2 ozs.; Extract of Cubebs, 1 oz.; Oil of Turpentine, 4 drops; Oil of Juniper, 6 drops; form into 3 grain pills. Take one or two a few times a-day. A sove- reign remedy for diseases of the kidneys, bladder, urethra, gravel, whites, and venereal complaints. DOMESTIC RULES.—Have a place for every thing—and every thing in its place, when wanted.— Do everything in its proper time.— Keep every thing to its proper use. —Keep your temper, and be for- bearing, —Be economical, and not extravagant. Avoid luxuries; plain living is best for bodily health, and mental comfort.— Avoid intemperance, as you would the fiercest tiger. DOUGH-NUTS. — Make into dough, 1 lb. of flour, \ lb. of but- ter ; f lbs. of fine sugar; a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon, a table- spoonful of yeast, and milk suf- ficient to mix. Let it rise an hour; form in squares, diamonds, twists, and bake, or fry. DOVER’S POWDER.—Ipec- acuanha, in powder, 1 drachm; powdered opium, one drachm; powdered saltpetre, 1 oz. All well mixed. Dose, from 8 to 20 grains. DRAUGHTS.—Each player alternately moves one of his men forward at a right angle to the next white square; and when a man is moved to a square adjoining an enemy, and the square behind that man angularly is unoccupied or becomes so, that man must be captured by the adversary by leaping over with his own man to the vacant square, and the man leaped over is removed from the board. When any man gets to the other end of the board, he becomes a king, and is crowned by placing one of the captured men upon him, he then can move and take either forwards or backwards in an angu- lar direction; and when any player neglects to capture the adversary when he has the opportunity, he then is said to stand the “ fluff.” The following are the Laws of the Game:— 1. The first move of each game to be taken alternately. 2. Pointing over the board, or otherwise interrupting the view is not permitted. 3. Whoever touches a man must play him somewhere; and if a man is removed into another square, he must remain there. 4. In case of standing the “huff,” it is optional with the