104 CHE CHE plateful of best cheese; pour upon it a glass of port wine ; grate upon part of it liglit biscuit unsugarcd ; pour over it two or three spoonfuls of hot port; then put the rest of the cheese upon it. CHEESE to toast. Cut the cheese fine, and put it with a little butter into the oven, or before the fire in a dutch oven; salt, pepper and mustard as you like it. It is nice with finely chopped onions mixed with it. Better still with finely chopped onions and nice ham. CHEESECAKES.—Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of milk; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with 6 ozs. of butter, 1 oz. of pounded blanched almonds, a little orange-flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, 4 ozs. of currants, some nutmeg, powder- ed fine, and boat all with three eggs, and half a pint of cream till quite light; then fill the tins three parts full. CHEESECAKES.—Butter, 4 ozs.; powdered sugar, 4 ozs.; potatoes boiled, and floured through a sieve, 6 ozs^ three eggs, and 25 drops of essence of lemon. Line the moulds with a light puff paste, and fill them.—This makes a cheap cheesecake. CHEESECAKES. Put a quart of new milk near the fire with a spoonful of rennet; when it is broken, drain the curd through a coarse cloth, breaking the curd gently with.the fingers; rub into the curd J lb. of butter, 4 lb. of sugar, a nutmeg, and two Naples’ biscuit grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white of one, 1 oz. of almonds well beaten, two spoon- fuls of rose-water, and two of sherry wine; add G ozs. of cur- rants. Line the moulds with light paste, pour the mixture into each, and bake in a slow oven from 15 minutes. CHEESECAKES, ALMOND. —Almonds, 4 ozs., blanch and beat them with a little orange-flower water; add the yolks of eight eggs, the rind of a lemon grated, 4 lb. of melted butter, and sugar to taste; lay thin puff paste at the bottom of the tins; and little slips across. Add 6 bitter almonds. CHEESECAKES, BREAD.— Slice a penny loaf very thin, pour on it a pint of hot cream, and let it stand two or three hours ; then take eight eggs, A lb. of butter, and a nutmeg grated; beat well, and mix them into the cream and bread, with i lb. of currants, well washed and dried, and a spoonful of white wine, or brandy, bake them in moulds, or raised crusts. CHEESECAKES, LEMON.- Boil the peelings of two large lemons till they are tender; pound them well in a mortar, with ;‘f lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, with 2 lb. of fresh butter; lay puff paste in the moulds; and pour half full, and bake them. CHEESECAKES, ORANGE. —Blanch \ lb. of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flow- er water, and 4 lb. of fine sugar sifted, 1 lb. of butter melted care- fully without oiling, and nearly cold; then beat the yolks of ten, and whites of four eggs; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, till as tender as marmalade, with- out lumps; and beat the whole to- gether, and put into moulds. CHEESECAKES, RICE. Boil 4 ozs. of rice till it is tender, and then drain; mix it with four eggs well beaten up, 4 lb. of butter, half a pint of cream, G ozs. of sugar, a grated nutmeg, and a glass of brandy. Beat tham well together, put into raised crusts, and bake in a moderate oven.