DIP 144 Then let it cool. For use, grate a dessert spoonful of it into pepper- mint water; more for an adult. Or make a strong tea of blackberry leaves, or raspberry leaves. I have known the latter superior to all physicians. Follow it with a little port wine, grated nutmeg and ginger. Or, take of poplar bark, § oz.; prickly ash berries, £ oz.; fleabane, | oz.; slippery elm, 1 drachm; pour on them a pint of boiling water ; infuse two or three hours. Tonics must be given after the cessation of the relax. DINING TABLES, to polish. —Put a little cold-drawn linseed oil in the middle of a table, and then with a piece of linen rub it well over the table; repeatedly change the linen till the table is dry. The table, by repeating this process, will assume a beautiful polish. DINNER PILLS.—Aloes and Jalap, of each 2 ozs.; Rhubarb, £ oz. Make into three grain pills with Syrups of Wormwood. Take from one to four during the day. DIPHTHERIA.—“I have had the treatment of several cases, and have uniformily been successful; the remedy is very sifnple. It is the external application of water to the throat, at degrees of tempera- ture alternating from the highest that the human slrin will bear, down to almost zero. I am pre- pared to verify that by proof. A. HENDERSON, M.R.C.S., Eng. 13, Upper Seymour St., Portman Square, London, 1858. M Roche mentions in X’ Union Medicate that he had saved six pa- tients in six cases of Diphtheria by the following mode of treat- ment. The false membranes were first freely cauterized with lunar caustic, and injections then made every hour against the fauces with DIP a solution of common salt, the strength of the solution being such as not to create nausea. Chlorate of Potash was also given internal- ly ; and Tincture of Iodine as a topical application, was used in half the cases; but M. Roche considers that the irrigations with the solution of common salt were the chief agents in the cases DIPHTHERIA, American remedy for.—Make two small bags to reach from ear to ear, and fill them with wood ashes and salt; dip them in hot water, and wring them out so that they will not drip, and apply them to the throat; cover up the whole with a flannel cloth, and change them as often as they become cool, until the throat becomes irritated, near blis- tering. For children it is necessary to put flannel cloths between the ashes and the throat to prevent blistering. When the ashes have been on a sufficient time take a wet flannel cloth and rub it with castile soap until it is covered with a thick lather; dip it in hot water, and ap- ply it to the throat, and change as they cool: at the same time use a gargle made of one tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of salt, one of molasses, in a tea-cupful of hot water, and when cool, add one- fourth as much cider, vinegar, and gargle every 15 minutes, until the patient requires sleep. A gargle made of castile soap is good to be ] used part of the time.” A correspondent in Maine, in sending the above remedy, says ] there had been a number of deaths from diphtheria until this remedy was used, since then all had re- covered. DIPHTHERIA.-Agentleman I who has administered the follow- 1 ing remedy for diphtheria says | that it has always proved effectual: | Take a tobacco pipe, place a live