JEL 214 JUM the diet be light and nourishing. The following decoction is useful: —Burdock root, ono ounce, Agri- mony, one ounce, water, two qrts.; boil down to threo pints. Dose, a wine-glassful two or three times a day. Dr. A. Hunter recommends eggs. He states that the yolk of an egg is the most salutary of all animal substances. In jaundice no food is equal to it. “ When the gall is too weak, or by accidental means, does not flow sufficiently into the duodenum, our food which consists of watery and oily parts, cannot unite so as to become chyle. The yolk of an egg unites the water and oil into a uniform substance, thereby supplying the deficiency of natural bile.” Or, take a small pill of Castile soap every morning for eight or ten days.—Tried. Or, heat the white of an egg thin; take it morn- ing and evening in a glass of water. Or, half a pint of strong decoc- tion of nettles, or of burdock leaves morning and evening. Or, boil three ounces of burdock root, in two quarts of water to three pints. Drink a tea-cupful of this every morning.— Wesley. The plant Bitter-sweet has been very useful in this disease. See Robinson's Herbal, for that plant, and also for Jaundice. JELLY, Stock.-Tut a sufficient number of calves’ feet into a stew- pan, with 3 pints of water to each foot; boil gently for 4 or 5 hours; then take out the meat part, and put it into cold water. When cold, trim it for any use it is designed for; throw the trim- mings back into the stock, and let it boil to a proper strength. Four feet to produce two quarts of stock. JELLY FOR THE SICK.— Mix 1 oz. each of rice, pearl bar- ley, sago, and hartshorn shavings, in three pints of water; boil till reduced to one, and strain. When required for use, dissolve in milk, wine or broth. JELLY of GOOSEBERRIES. —Bruise gooseberries, and strain out the pulp. To every pint of juice put £ lb. of sugar; boil up well together, so that if a little is laid upon a plate, it will not stick, but come clean off. Strain off, and keep to put into tarts with pears, apples, &c., to make them taste like gooseberries. Other fruits may be done in a similar way. JELLY, Savoury Meat.—Chop a knuckle of veal and a scrag of mutton, so that one bone may be placed on the other. Scrape and slice 3 carrots and 2 turnips, cut small a stick of celery, butter the bottom of a small jar or well-tin- ned saucepan. Place the meat and vegetables in alternate layers, closely together. Sprinkle with a little salt, cover the jar, and place it in a slow oven for half an hour; pour in as much hot water as will cover the contents. Place in the oven hotter than before, for five hours. Strain the liquor from the meat and vegetables ; when cold, remove the fat from the surface, and the sediment. The jelly will then be ready for use. JONQUILLE PERFUME.- Oil of sassafras, 1 part; oil of orange, 1 part; oil of carraway, 2 parts; oil of lavender, 3 parts; essence of lemon, 8 parts; essence of bergamot, 8 parts. Mix. JUMBALLS.—Flour, 1 lb.; sugar, 1 lb.; make into a light paste with .whites of eggs beaten fine; add b pint of cream; i lb. of butter, melted; and 1 lb. of blanch- ed almonds, well beaten; knead all together, with a little rose-wa- ter ; cut into any form; bake in a slow oven. A little butter may be melted with a spoonful of white