236 LOT LUM lio is looed, and tho next player must take the deal. 9. Any one looking at “miss” is looed. 10. Any one making a revoke is looed ; and even if he wins a trick, cannot claim it, but the cards must be taken up, and the hand played over again in the proper manner. There is a kind of Loo played called five-card Loo, but it differs only from tho three-card Loo in two or three points; namely, that the knave of trumps is the best card, and when held must be led as the ace; and secondly, that the dealer has the privilege of talcing the turn-up card into his own hand, and discarding one from it. LOOKING-GLASSES, to Sil- ver.—Take a sheet of tinfoil, and spread it upon a table ; then rub mercury upon it with a hare’s foot till the two metals incorporate. Lay the plate of glass upon it, and load it with weights, which will have the effect of pressing out the excess of mercury that was applied to the tin-foil. In a few hours the tin-foil will adhere to the glass and convert it into a mirror. About two ounces of mercury are sufficient for covering three square feet of glass. LOOKING-GLASSES, to Clean.—Sweep away the dirt with a soft brush, or silk handkerchief. Then sponge with a little spirit of wine, or gin and water, to remove all dust. Then dust with the finest whiting, or powder-blue. Then rub it quickly off with a cloth, and polish lightly with a silk handkerchief. The gilt frame may be cleaned with a little cotton wool. LOTION VALUABLE. —Camphor, 5 drachms, cut into small pieces, and dissolve in half a pint of spirits of wine in a closely corked bottle; when fully dissolved, add half a pint of oxgall, and sixty drops of laudanum. Shake it well, and bottle for use.—This has been a patent medicine, and is very effi- cacious in the cure of fresh wounds, cuts, bruises, swellings, sores, and inflamed and pained parts. LOZENGES.—Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in one pint of water, for an hour, over a slow fire; when boiled enough, it will snap like glass, by trying it in cold water; then pour it on your stone. When cold, make it into rolls, and cut if with scissors into small lumps, make them round and stamp them with a figure. Drop a little oil of pepper- mint into the sugar when boiled', and poured upon the stone; it will give it a strong taste and smell of peppermint. LOZENGES for Foetid Breath, —Gum kino, b oz.; catechu, 1 oz.: white sugar, 3 ozs.; orris powder, f oz. Make them into a paste with mucilage, and add a drop of nerolL | LUMBAGO.—It is a species of chronic rheumatism, which affects the muscles of the lower part of the back, causing great pain and stiffness. The patient can scarce- | ly stir without having tho most piercing pain. It may be confined . to one side, or affect the loins gen- | erally. Its attacks are generally i sudden, immediately after or in stooping, or rising from bed. Lum- bago is connected with derange- i ruent of the stomach, of the bowels, and of the kidneys. Treatmeni.—Take gentle aperients of Senna and Epsom Salts, with a little ginger. Drink freely of balm tea and other dilu- ents. Great and sometimes imme- diate relief has been obtained by the Compound Colocynth Fill, combined with the Blue Fill. Ex- ternal applications are useful. Dip a flannel in hot water and apply to ■■