195 HEA HEA reach the lungs by a circuit of the i nose and head, and becomes warm before reaching the lungs, thus i causing no derangement. Brisk i, walking throws the blood to the i surface of the body, thus keeping up a vigorous circulation, making a cold impossible if you do not get into a cold bed too quickly after reaching home. Neglect of these precautions brings sickness and death to multitudes every year. The amount of exercise necessary for health is variable, depending upon natural constitution, educa- tion, sex, and age. For men from twenty to fifty, eight or ten miles a day of walking exercise may be taken as the average; and for women of the same age, about half this quantity will suffice. Less than this will go a great way, but for keeping up high health, the above amount, omitted only on thoroughly wet days, may be con- sidered necessary. By all means avoid a morbid desponding feeling, for scarcely any i thing is more injurious to health. Mental as well as bodily exercise is essential to the general health and happiness ; therefore, labour and study should succeed each other. The plainest food is the best, taken in quantities so small as not to oppress the stomach. A man i should never know that he has a stomach except when he is hungry. To increase muscular power, food should be taken which does not > produce fat; for fat is frequently a ] sign of disease. A race-horse is !| brought to his prime condition by t a system of training. So with : man, if he wishes to see the full i developement of all his muscular ' power, he must restrict himself in diet, and exhaust his fat by having a good sweating every day, but not to lake cold. Lying too long in bed is injuri- ous to health. The want of ex- pansion of the chest through exer- cise, will aggravate or create con- sumptive tendencies, which all more or less have; and the con- stant heat of the back or one side, occasioned by cushioning, disturbs healthy action. When food rises in the stomach, the stomach is speaking to us, and we ought to listen to it, or health will suffer. In due time head- aches will be the result; the liver is oppressed, and cannot fulfil its functions. There has been more introduced into the body than can be conveniently disposed of. Every part receives some of the obtrusive matter; it is forced into the ab- sorbents ; the blood is unwillingly compelled to take a part of it; the brain feels the effect of the poison- ous infusion; the circulation is im- peded ; the heart feels it, and la- bours hard to do its allotted work. By persisting in the habit, life will be shortened. Too little food has its symptoms as well as too much. The body will flag for want of stimulus; it will lose warmth and energy; and if it be found that more food res- tores both, and brings comfort, then more food is wanted. Every one should endeavour to discover his own maximum and minimum al- lowance, and adhere to it. Those who think most, require the most sleep. The time “ saved” from necessary sleep is destruction to mind, body, and estate. Give yourself, children, and servants, the fullest amount of sleep by com- pelling them to go to bed at some early hour, and to rise in the morn- ing the moment they awake of themselves, and within a fortnight nature will unloose the bonds of sleep the moment enough repose has been secured.