oxc 283 OXF ■wine, and white wine vinegar, seasoned with salt, pepper, and sliced nutmeg; stew till tender; then take them up, and put to the liquor in which you stewed them, a quart of sherry, and sage, par- sley, marjoram, thyme, a bunch of rosemary, bay leaves, whole pep- er, nutmegs, and sliced ginger; oil all these together; put the cheek into the vessel, and pour the liquor upon it; lay on them some slices of lemon, and keep for use. OX-CHEEK, to pot.—When you stew an ox-cheek, take some of the fleshy part, and season it well with salt and pepper, and beat it very fine in a mortar with a lit- tle clear fat skimmed off the gravy; put it close into the pots, and pour over it clarified butter. OX-CHEEK STEW.—Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water: simmer it after it has boiled, and been skimmed. In two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper and 4 ozs. of allspice. Skim often; when the meat is tender, take it out; cool, take off the fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown, which may be done by burnt sugar; or by frying some onions brown with flour and simmering them with it. This improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should always be served. Whore it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a v flavour, boiled in and strained off. t Another way.—Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top; pour on two or three quarts of water and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will fit close. Let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. OXFORD CAKES.—Flour, 6 lbs.; salt, about a table-spoonful; cinnamon, \ oz.; nutmeg, J oz.; cloves, 1 drachm; the same of mace, all finely beaten and sifted with the salt; add f lb. of sugar; gradually work into the flour 1 lb. or more of fresh butter; it will take a long time to work it up. Then add a quart of cream, a pint of ale yeast, a gill of mountain wine, and 3 grains of ambergris, dissolved in the yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs, and a gill of rose- water; mix the whole with the flour, and knead them well to- gether. Keep the paste near the fire some time; then add 1 lb. of stoned minced raisins, and 3 lbs. of clean dry currants; bake the cake in a gentle oven. Frost on the top with rose-water and the whole of an egg beaten together; sift over plenty of fine loaf sugar, and put into a slow oven to dry. OXFORD DUMPLINGS. Take 2 ozs. of grated bread; cur- rants and shred suet, 4 ozs. each; two large spoonfuls of flour; a good quantity of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little powdered pimento. Mix with two eggs and a little milk into five dumplings,