cou CRA 129 Pennyroyal, 1 drachm; Essence of Spearmint, 2 drachms.—Boil the Hyssop, Rue, and Horehound till the strength is obtained; strain, add sugar and treacle; boil to a syrup, and when nearly cold, add the tincture and essences. COUGH SYRUP. Sage, 1 ounce, Johnswort, 1 ounce, Iceland Moss, 2 ounces; White Poppy heads, 2 ounces ; Pearl Barley, 2 table-spoonfuls; water, 2 quarts. Boil to a quart and sweeten with sugar candy, adding a little lemon juice. If the cough is obstinate, add J ounce of Ipecacuanha. If the patient is asthmatical, add 1 ounce of Sulphuric Ether. COUGH SYRUP.—Tincture of Lobelia, 1 oz.; Iceland Moss, 2 ozs.; White Poppy Capsules, brui- sed, 2 ozs.; Pearl Barley, 2 table spoonfuls; water, 2 quarts; treacle, 2 ozs. Boil down to three pints, and strain. Dissolve in it from 4 to 8 ozs. of sugar-candy. It ef- fectually allays a tickling cough. A table-spoouful when the cough is troublesome. It does not con- stipate like laudanum and pare- gorie. Or, take Lobelia herb, Hore- hound, Boneset, of each 1 oz.; Comfreyroot, Spikenard, St. Johns wort, Poppy Capsules, of each, § oz. Infuse in three pints of boilng water for three hours. Strain and add £ lb. of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup. Add a wineglassful of best rum. A table-spoonful is a dose. This is a valuable receipt for cough, hoarseness, &c. COURT PLASTER. — Isin- glass, | oz.; Friar’s balsam, 1 drachm. Melt the isinglass in 1 oz. of water, and boil the solution till a great part of the water is consumed ; add it gradually to the balsam, and mix well. Keep a little longer on the fire, and brush it evenly over silk. Or, isinglass, 4 ozs.; water, 3 ozs. Dissolve ; then add tincture of benzoin, 1 oz. Heat. Apply warm. COWHAGE. — An effectual remedy for round and other worms. It is made into an electuary with treacle; a tea-spoonful to be taken at a time; and to be followed by a brisk purge with rhubarb and jalop, or salts and senna. COW-HEEL BROTH. — Put a cow-heel into a pan with three quarts of water, and boil; skim it well, season with peppercorns, thyme, parsley, and salt; boil gently for two hours ; skim well, and serve the broth with the glu- tinous part of the heel in it. It is very strengthening. COWSLIP WINE.—To two gallons of water, put six pounds of powdered sugar, boil 40 minutes, take off the scum as it rises, pour into a tub to cool, and add the rinds of two lemons; when it is cold, add four quarts of cowslip flowers to the liquor, with the juice of two lemons, let it stand in the tub two days, stirring it every two or three hours, then put in the barrel and let it stand three weeks or a month, then bottle it, and put a lump of sugar into every bottle. The addition of brandy improves it much. CRABS, to choose.—They must feel heavy in the hand; the very large ones are seldom good ; those of the middle size are the sweetest. If light they are watery; the j oints of the legs are stiff, and the body has an agreeable smell. CRABS, to butter.—Boil two crabs; when cold, take all the meat out; mince it small; put it into a pan, with a glass of sherry, two spoonfuls of vinegar, and a nutmeg grated ; boil till it is tho- roughly hot. Take J lb. of butter, melt with an anchovy; mix with i