LAN 221 LAN and nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops. Do not boil after the cream is in ; but mate it hot, and stir all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be add- ed, first boiled of a beautiful colour. LAMB’S HEAD and PLUCK. —Wash clean; take the black part i from the eyes, and the gall from I the liver. Put into warm water, boil the heart, liver, &c.; serve. LAMPREYS, to stew.—Clean thefish, remove the cartilage which i runs down the back, and season with a little clove, mace, nutmeg, | pepper, and allspice; put it into a I stew-pot with strong beef-gravy, i port, and an equal quantity of I Madeira, or sherry. Cover close: » stew till tender, take out the lam- ;! prey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with three anchovies ( chopped, and some flour and but- i ter'; strain the gravy, and add j lemon juice, and mustard. Serve !i with sippets of bread and horse I radish. Eels done in the same way, are ; much like the lamprey. When ti there is spawn it must be fried and ! put round. LANDLORD AND TENANT. —A yearly tenant must give notice ( to quit his premises half a year be- , fore the time of the expiration of the current year of his tenancy. ;( If by agreement, a quarter’s notice o is to be sufficient, such notice must always expire with the tenancy if * that is yearly.—If a landlord neg- lects to repair the premises, accor- 3 ding to his covenant, the tenant v may maintain an action against ! him; but such neglect does not • absolve the tenant from pay- li ment of the rent.—A landlord can - legally dispose of goods taken under ■i a distress for rent, by appraisement, without putting them up by auc- session of the goods of his tenant’s lodger which have been distrain- ed under distress for rent; or he may maintain an action for pound breach. A landlord can be com- pelled, according to the Small Tenement Act, to pay the poor rates, if the rent is under £10 per annum.—If a landlord agrees to make repairs, and neglects to do so, the tenant may do it, and deduct the amount from the rent. But the tenant must give previous no- tice of these repair's to the landlord; the notice to be signed by himself and a witness.—If the landlprd has to pay the rates, an agreement properly witnessed and signed, should be drawn up to that effect. —The payment of the rent of a house, or building of any kind is absolute, if the landlord demands it; even though the house fall down, be blown, or burnt down, the tenant is bound to pay the rent; and the tenancy can only cease by giving the proper Notice to Quit, just as if the house continued in a perfect state. When the rent is paid, the landlord is bound to give the tenant a receipt;—thus, Received of Mr. John Thomas the sum of (here insert the amount) for half year's rent due on the First day of May last, for the House, No, Street. £— (Stamp) Robert Southey. Landlord's Notice to Tenant to Quit;—Sir, I hereby give you No- tice to quit the house (or workshop, warehouse, as the case may be) and appurtenances, which you, as tenant, now hold of me, situate No.—, Street, on or before next. (Signed) T. C. landlord. To Mr. W. S. Notice to Quit of Tenant to Landlord:—Sir, I hereby give you notice, that on or before the day of next, I shall quit and