400 SPE SPE inches. Then take as much boiling •water as will cover it, having pre- viously dissolved as much alum in the water as it will take up. Pour this over the basket, and in twelve hours you may take it out: it will be covered with masses of splendid coloured crystals, glittering with all the colours of the rainbow. SPARE-RIB of PORK, to roast.—About 9 lbs. will take 2| hours roasting. Baste well to pre- vent the skin burning. SPASMS.—Oil of red lavender, 1 part; sal-volatile, 1 part; oil of peppermint, 2 parts. Mix, and take 10 or 12 drops in half a wine- glassful of lukewarm or cold water. If the first dose is not efficacious, repeat. SPASMS, Certain cure for.— Take threepennyworth of balsam of sulphur, and the same quantity of the oil of aniseed; put these to- gether, and let them stand in a warm place for 24 hours. Then take twopennyworth of the spirits of wine, and twopennyworth of spirits of turpentine; put these to- gether, and let them stand as above; then mix the whole well together. Take 7 or 8 drops on a piece of loaf sugar, when the pain is on; it will give instant relief. SPEARMINT WATER, to distil.—Take of spearmint leaves, any quantity, and three times the quantity of water ; distil as long as the liquor which comes over has a considerable taste, or smell of the mint. Or, take spearmint leaves, dried, li lb., and as much water as is sufficient to prevent burning. Distil one gallon. SPECIFICS.—Medicines cur- ing a disease by an unknown mode of action. SPECULATION, Game of This is a lively round game, very often introduced into parties, as allowing scope for conversation and laughter. Almost any number may play at it; in fact, the more the merrier. A complete pack of cards is used, bearing the same value as at whist, with fish or counters, on which a certain value is fixed ; the highest trump in each deal wins the pool. After determining the deal, the dealer puts six fish into the pool, and the other players four each; next three cards are given to each by one at a time, and another turned up for trumps. The cards must not be looked at except in this manner : the eldest hand shows his top card, which if a trump, the company may specu- late or bid for ; he that bids highest getting it and paying for it, pro- vided the price offered is satisfac- tory to the seller of that trump. After this is settled, or if the first card does not prove a trump, then the next eldest shows his top card, and so on; the company speculate as they please on each trump turned up, till all are dis- covered, when the possessor of the highest trump, whether by pur- chase or otherwise, gains the pool. To play this game well,little more is requisite than recollecting what superiors of that particular suit have appeared in the preceding deals, and calculating the proba- bility of the trump offered proving the highest in the deal. When no high trump has been discovered, it is often customary to purchase cards on speculation, be- fore they are shewn; more par- ticularly when but few are left to be turned up. When a party turns up a trump he ought to be allowed time to sell it to the best advantage, before an- other card is turned up. It is ad- visable to sell any low trump if you can, particularly if there are many players. When a card is