CRT CRO 133 which it only varies in each of the players putting out two cards for the crib, retaining only three in their hand. First, the two cut for deal, which belongs to the person cutting lowest, the non-dealer se- curing three points as equivalent to the crib ; the dealer must give one card alternately to his oppo- nent and himself, until each has five. In laying out for the crib, study your hand, for what might be correct in one instance, would he dangerous in the other. When you hold a pair royal, or three cards of one sort, put out the other two for either crib; unless those two others be fives, or a two and a three, or seven and eight, or a ten and a five; in which cases it is better if it is your opponent’s crib, to spoil your hand by keeping these cards, and chance a card tur- ning up to your advantage. Laws of Cribbage. The dealer may discover his own cards during the deal if he pleases; but if be shows any of his opponent’s, that opponent may call a fresh deal, and also add two to his score. Should too many cards be dealt to either hand,,the non-dealer may demand another deal, and also add another two points to his score; but if not, the surplus cards must he drawn; and when any player, i after the game has commenced, has more than his proper number ' of cards in hand, then the adverse 1 party may add four to their score, and demand a new deal. If any player touch or interfere with the cards, after dealing, until cutting them, for the turn-up card, i his adversary shall score two points. When either player scores more | than he is justly entitled to, the adverse party cannot only put him back as many holes as he has over- marked, but he may score the same oxtra number for himself. If either party by mistake should take out his front peg, he must place it back, behind the other. If either party touches even his own peg, without occasion, his opponent may score two points. Either party putting down a less number of points than are due to him, incurs the loss of those points. Each player, when he has taken his hand and scored it, has a right to place his own cards on the pack. CRICKETS, to destroy.—See Cockroaches, for the same directions are applicable to Crickets. Or put a little chloride of lime and powdered tobacco in their holes. Or a little snuff. The smoke of charcoal destroys both them and cockroaches.—Loud vi- brating sounds drive away crickets. CRIMSON DYE FOR SILK. —For each lb. of cloth, or stuff, dissolve in boiling water 21 ozs. of alum, and 1| ozs. of white tartar. Boil two minutes; put in the goods, and boil 1| hour. Take out and add fresh water; when it boils, put in 1§ oz. of cochineal powder- ed ; boil 1 hour. The shade may be lighter by using less of the in- gredients. CRIMSON FLAME. — Take alcohol, any quantity, and dissolve a little of one of the salts of stron- tia in it. CROSS BUNS.—To 2J lbs. of flour add I lb. of powdered sugar, and a little coriander seed, cassia, and mace, powdered fine ; make a paste with \ lb. of butter dissolved in half a pint of hot milk; work in three table-spoonfuls of yeast and a little salt; set it before the fire for an hour to rise; make it into buns; and place before the fire on a tin for half an hour; last- ly brush them over with warm milk, and bake to a nice brown in a slow oven.