KID s wine, and throw fine sugar all over j the dish. JUNIPER BERRIES.—Very ii diuretic, and pleasant, as it is (or •( should be) a principal ingredient i in Hollands or Geneva Gin. The oil is the best for dropsical and i urinary diseases. The dose is from I 10 to 15 drops three times a day. KERNELS, to blanch.—Sim- ■ ply put them into boiling water a minute or two ; rub them between ! a clean cloth, and the brown skins i will soon peel off. Almonds and i other kernels may thus be blanched. KETCHUP. See Mushroom 1 Ketchup, Walnut Ketchup, <f'c- KETCHUP, to keep twenty ;! years.—Take a gallon of strong I stale beer, 1 lb. of anchovies, wash- i ed from the pickle; 1 lb. of sha- i lots; | oz. of mace; § oz. of v cloves; J oz. of whole pepper; § • oz, of ginger; 2 quarts of large mushroom flaps, rubbed to pieces; i cover all close, and simmer till it i is half wasted; strain; cool; then I bottle. A spoonful of this ketchup ; is sufficient for a pint of melted i butter. KETTLES, incrustation orfur- < ring to prevent.—Keep in the ves- sel a clean marble, a cockle, or i oyster shell; these will attract the particles of sand. KID GLOVES, to clean.—Rub | with very slightly damped bread a crumbs. If not effectual, scrape upon them dry fullers earth, or French chalk, when on the hands, and rub them quickly together in all directions. Do this several ) times. Or put gloves of a light i colour on the hands, and wash the >i hands in a basin of spirits of harts- d horn:—Some gloves may be wash- 8 ed in a strong lather made of white ■| soap and warm water, or milk; or !| wash with rice pulp.—Or sponge a them well with turpentine. Alum KID 215 powder and fullers earth well mix- ed may bo usefully used. KIDNEY BEANS. — String them; cut down the middle, and across; boil in salt and water till tender, and serve with melted but- ter. Another way.—Cut in small dice two onions; put them in a stew- pan with a little butter; when they begin to brown put in a little good gravy; flour them; give them and the flour a fine brown colour: if gravy is not used, put in a spoonful of soup, season with salt and pepper; reduce this sauce; put in the beans already cooked; simmer till enough; dish, and serve. French. Another ivay.—Cut two onions in half rings, and put them into a frying-pan with butter; when they begin to brown, put in the beans which have been cooked; fry with the onions; put in hashed parsley, scallions, salt and pepper; give a turn or two more, and dish: boil a little vinegar in the pan, and pour it over them. French. KIDNEY BEANS in Salad.— Take haricots already cooked, put them in a salad-dish; garnish them with strips of anchovy, onions, roasted in the ashes, beet root, or any thing properly hashed; season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and serve. KIDNEY, (beef,) Broiled.— Cut the kidney lengthways. Sea- son with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Pass a "wire skewer through them to prevent them curling. Have a brisk clear fire, and place on the gridiron for about ten minutes, turning them often. When dish- ed, rub them over with butter, and serve with parsley fried crisp, and a little sherry, butter, salt, and pepper. Kidneys may be minced by a sim- ilar seasoning, and be done in the