MOT MOU 258 and season, inside and out, pretty high, with mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as Rmall a pot as will hold them, cover them with buttor, and bake in a slow oven. When cold, take off the but- ter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot, which should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in a basin set in a bowl of hot water. MORELLA CHERRIES, to preserve.—Take full ripe cherries; take off the stalks and prick them with a pin; to every 2 lbs. of cher- ries, put li lb. of loaf sugar; beat part of the sugar, and strew it over them; let them stand all night; dissolve the rest of the sugar in half a pint of the juice of currants; set it over a slow fire, and put in the sugared cherries, and give them a gentle scald; let stand all night again; and then give them another scald; then take them carefully out, and boil the syrup till it is thick; pour it upon the cherries; if it be too thin, boil again. MORELLA WINE.-Free from the stalks 60 lbs of Morelia cher- ries, and bruise them, so that the stones shall be broken. Press out the juice, and mix with 6 gallons of sherry wine, 5 lbs. of fine sugar, and 4 gallons of warm water. Powder 1 oz. each of nutmeg, cin- namon, and mace, hang them sep- arately in small bags in the casks containing the mixture. Bung, and in a few weeks it will be a de- liciously flavoured wine. Add 1 quart of French brandy. MOTHS, to preserve clothes from.—Put a few cuttings of Russia leather in your trunk or wardrobe; or sprinkle a few pep- per-corns, pimento-corns, or cloves in the samo places. Or, a piece of camphor in a linen bag. Or, sheets smeared with turpentine, and well dried. Cedar wood and tobacco leaves are very noxious to moths. It is effectual to wrap clothes in cotton or old linen saturated with a solu- tion of camphor, and dried. Or, mix together 12 drops of the oil of cloves, and 12 of tho oil of carra- way, 6 drops of the oil of lavender, a glass of whisky, and a piece of camphor. Sprinkle with it. MOUNTAIN WINE. — Free Malaga raisins from stalks ; chop them small, and put 5 lbs. to every gallon of cold spring water; in- fuse a fortnight, or more, stirring it occasionally; press out the liquor, and barrel it; previously fume the vessel with brimstone. Do not bung till the hissing is over. Put half a pint of French brandy to every gallon of wine. MOUSE TRAP, a never fail- ing one.—Take a piece of deal, or any kind of wood, about 6 inches broad, and 9 or 10 inches long, and put into the sides, about the middle, 2 pins, or thick pieces of round wire ; then take two sticks about two feet long, and lay them on the table, or dresser, &c., with a notch cut at the end of each stick, so that about one half of the board may lie on the table, or place to which the mice resort; let the end projecting from the table be baited with cheese, &c., and when the mice run off the table to the bait, it will tip them into a vessel three fourths full of water, which must be placed direct- ly under the projection, and they will be drowned. MOUTH WASH.—Take $ oz. each of dried mint, thyme, and lemon thyme; cloves, bruised; half a nutmeg grated; pour on these ingredients § oz. of tincture of myrrh, and § oz. of spirits of wine, a cupful of water, and 12