307 PIG PIG small deep pan; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper, tied down, and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each; and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made , with veal, bacon, &e., and then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little cayenne, be- fore baking. PIGEON, to pickle.—Bono them; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little all- spice, and salt, in fine powder; turn them again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put them into boiling water; let them boil a minute or two to plump; take them out, and dry them well; then put them boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and two or three bay leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small a quarter of an honr will do them ; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. BACK. PIGEON. breast. PIGEONS, to roast.—Take a littlo pepper and salt, a piece of butter, and parsley cut small; | mix, and put the mixture into the bellies of the pigeons, tying the necks tight; take another string; I fasten one end of it to their legs and rumps, and the other to a hanging spit, basting them with butter; when done, lay them in a dish, and they will swim with gravy. PIGEON PIE.—Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, in- side and out; in the former put a bit of butter, and if approved, some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it; be- tween every two a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon; it is a great improvement to tho flavour of the pie. _ When ham is cut for gravy or pies, take the under part rather than the prime. Season the giz- zards and the two joints of the