172 FRO FRU FRENCH POMADE.—Pom- ade (any) 8 ozs.; white wax, 1 oz.; spermaceti, \ oz.; oil of almonds, 3 ozs. Mix. FRENCH PUDDING.—Milk, 1 quart; flour, a cupful, or more, 8 or 9 eggs. Beat the eggs, and add them to the milk, with the flour. Butter a dish, and hake. Serve with sweet sauce. FRITTERS.—Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- cakes, by dropping a small quanti- ty into the pan; or make the plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and cored into the hatter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants or sliced lemon as thin as paper, and orange flower water make an agreeable change. FRITTERS, common.—Half a pint of ale and two eggs, beat in 2 or more table-spoonfuls of flour, with nutmeg and sugar to taste; let it rise four minutes; then drop them into a pan of boiling lard; fry a light brown ; serve with su- gar grated upon them. It may be varied by adding cream, sweetmeat, marmalade, jam, currants, &c. FRITTERS Spanish.—Cut the inside of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar pounded, cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry to a nice brown; and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. FROST BITES.—Keep from the tire, and rub well with snow, and then with cold water. FROTH, to set on cream, cus- tard, or trifle.—Sweeten |lb. of the pulp of damsons, or any other scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until it will stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c., with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. ! FRUIT, to bottle.—Currants, gooseberries, and other fruits may ; be thus preserved:—After having been well cleaned, put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles, shak- I ing them so that each bottle may be full. Place them, slightly corked, in an oven nearly cold, for four or five hours; when the fruit con- i tracts or wrinkles, take out, cork well down rapidly and cover with leather and wax. Keep in a dry place. FRUIT, to candy.—After apri- cots, peaches, plums, nectarines, &c. have been preserved, take the fruit from the syrup; drain; to 1 lb. of loaf-sugar put half a teacup- ful of water; when dissolved set it over a moderate fire; when boiling hot put in the fruit; stir it contin- ually until the sugar is candied about it; then take it upon a sieve and diy in a warm oven, or before a fire; repeat this two or three times if necessary. FRUIT PIE for invalids and children.—The rich crusts gener- ally made are not fit for invalids and children. Therefore divide into two slices each, as many sponge cakes as will be required for the size of your dish; put a layer of these, with the brown side down- wards, at the bottom of the pie- dish, then fill with currants and raspberries, plums, damsons, or whatever fruit the season affords; sprinkle well with fine Lisbon su- gar, and pour in water nearly to the brim; place a portion of the cut cakes upon the fruit as an up- per crust, and let the dish be put in the oven for forty minutes. FRUIT STAINS, to remove i from linen.—Rub each side of the stained part with soap; then steep it in a strong solution of pearl-ash; soak well in hot water, or boil.