SCO 376 SCO •—It derives its name from the pain taking the course of the sciatic nervo down to the hip and thigh. It is often connected with rheumatism and gout, and most of the remedies for those diseases are applicable to sciatica.—The vapour bath is very serviceable. Rub also with the Rheumatic Liquid, or the tincture of aconite. Galvanism applied is also good. Also, an embrocation composed of one part of turpentine, two of soap ana opium liniment, and one of tincture of cayenne. A hot bran poultice sprinkled with laudanum often gives ease. Take an aperient, if necessary. Avoid all alcoholic drinks, and take light nourishing food. Sciatica often oc- curs in persons of broken constitu- tion; tonic medicines are appro- priate to them, as quinine and iron, or the bitters, which see. SCORBUTIC BLOTCHES.— Put a few handfuls of water cresses bruised, to half a pint of milk. Simmer over a slow fire until they assume a green colour; bathe the parts affected with this liquid, and rub it in by the fire. Then rub with simple ointment. SCORBUTIC GUMS. — Take bole ammoniac, 2 drachms; myrrh, 1 drachm; roche alum, | drachm; claret, better than J pint. Boil over a gentle fire. Strain. "Wash the mouth with it several times a day. SCORBUTIC GUMS.—Wash them daily with the decoction of the Peruvian bark, adding a' little tincture of rosemary, with a solu- tion of myrrh. SCOTCH COLLOPS. Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, and rather round; beat with a rolling-pin, and grate a little nutmeg over them; dip in- to the yolk of an egg; and fry them in a little butter of a fine brown; pour the butter off; and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of salt. Don’t boil the sauce but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. Another.—Cut slices from a fil- let of mutton, or veal. Sprinkle with flour, and brown them with butter in the frying-pan. Place in the stew-pan, and cover with gravy, weak broth, or water; sim- mer gently ten or twelve minutes, then add lemon juice, ketchup, mace, pepper, and salt. Put the sauce or liquor in the frying-pan, and thicken with flour, which pour over the collops, and garnish with curled slices of ham or bacon. SCOTCH COLLOPS, brown. -Brown the butter before the col- lops are put in; fry them over a quick fire; turn and keep in a fine Roth; when they are a light brown, put them into the pot, and fry them. Pour all the gravy into a tossing-pan, with half a pint of gravy made of the bones, and bits from which the collops have been cut, two teaspoonfuls of lemon pickle, a table-spoonful of ketchup, the same of browning, half a lem- on, a little anchovy, cayenne, and salt to your taste; thicken with flour and butter. Boil five or six minutes ; then put in the collops, and shake them over the fire. When they have simmered a little, take them out, lay in the dish. Strain the gravy and pour it hot upon them. SCOTCH LEEK SOUP.— Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper, and salt; simmer them an hour; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a