PIQ 316 PIS but if his opponent is greatly in advance, he should risk losing the cards in hopes of winning them. If an elder hand has two aces dealt to him, it is eighteen to one that he does not take in the other two that are against him ; that he does not take in one, is live to four against him, or nearly so. LAWS OF PIQUET. The elder hand is obliged to lay out one card at least. If the elder hand takes in one of the three cards which belong to the younger, he loses the game. If the elder hand, in taking his five cards, turns up one belonging to the younger hand, he is not to count any thing that hand. If either play with thirteen cards, they cannot count any thing that deal. Should either of the players have thirteen cards dealt, it is at the option of the elder hand to stand the deal or not: if he chooses to stand, then the person having thirteen is to discard one more than he takes in; should either have above thirteen, then a new deal must take place. If either hand reckon more than they hold, or what they have not, they count nothing. If the elder hand touches the stock after he has discarded, he cannot alter his discard. If a card is faced, and it happens to be discovered either in dealing or in the stock, there must be a new deal, unless it is the bottom card. If the younger hand takes in five cards it is the loss of the game, unless the elder has left two cards. If the elder hand shows a point, or a quart or tierce, and asks if they are good, and afterwards for- gets to reckon any of them, the other cannot reckon any of similar value. When you are cutting, you must cut two cards at least. If the elder hand calls a point, and does not show it, it is not to be reckoned ; and the younger hand may show and reckon his point, j In the first place call your point, and if you have two points, and design to reckon the highest, you call that first, and abide by your first call. If you play fewer than your pro- per number of cards, there is no penalty attached to it. If tlie elder hand leaves a card, 1 and, after he has taken in, happens to put to his discard the four! cards taken in, they must remain . with his discard, and he must play with eight cards. Whoever deals twice together, and discovers it previous to seeing his cards, may compel his adver- sary to deal, notwithstanding he may have seen his cards. No player can discard twice, and after he has touched the stock he is not allowed to change his discard. When the elder hand does not take all his cards, he must specify what number he takes or leaves. I Any card that has touched the board is deemed to be played, un- less in case of a revoke. If any player names a suit and then plays a different one, the an- tagonist may call a suit. The player who looks at any card belonging to the stock is liable to have a suit called. PISMIRES, to destroy. - Throw gas lime upon the ant-hill, dig it well in; they will breed there no more. Gas tar might also be mix-' ed with it. Dig it well in, and then press it down well. PLAICE.—Sprinkle with salt, and keep 24 hours; then wash and wipe dry; wet it over with cgg,f and cover with crumbs of bread;