HAM 190 HAL roses, \ draclim; apply morning and evening. Or, Palma Cliris- ti oil, 2 ozs.; oil of lavender, oil of rosemary, oil of nutmeg, 1 draclim each. Or, olive oil, 1 oz.; oil of origanum, 1 drachm ; oil of rosemary, 2 drachms. Or, oil of sweet almonds, 2 ozs.; spermaceti, £ oz.; melt over the fire. Cool, and add a few drops of oil of bergamot. HAIR WASHES.—A weak infusion of tea, with a small quan- tity of rum, is a good application. Apply with a sponge—If the per- son can bear it, wash the head in cold water, morning and night, and then brush the head until of a warm glow; then apply twice a day this mixture;—tincture of cantharides, j oz.; eau de Cologne, \ oz.; rose water or distilled wa- ter, 2 ozs. Or, wash the hair with Windsor soap suds twice a week, rub well in, wash with clean soft water, and then apply a little rum, brandy, or weak camphor water. Or, to 1 oz. of borax, add \ oz. of camphor; dissolve in a little spirits of wine; then mix with a quart of boiling water; cool, and it will be ready for use. It cleanses and strengthens the hair eifectually. Or, boil in water, 3 ozs. of sassafras wood, and § oz. of pearl-ash. Or, honey, 4 lbs.; tendrils of vines, H lb.; rosemary, 1 lb. Put into a still, and distil slowly. Or, take rosemary, maiden-hair, southern- wood, myrtle berries, and hazle bark, 2 ozs. each; burn them to ashes, and with the ashes make a ley, and wash the hair with it. It cleanses and strengthens the hair. HALIBUT, to fry.—Cut into thin slices; rib it with a knife ; fry it almost brown with butter; take it up ; drain it from the but- ter ; clean the pan, and put it in again with port wine, sliced gin- ger, nutmeg, anchovy, salt, and saffron beaten; fry a little more; add a little butter; shake well together with a minced lemon. HAMS, to choose. — Stick a skewer or sharp knife under the bone ; if it comes out with a plea- sant smell, the ham is good; but if the knife be daubed, and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are best. Choose not long-legged pigs. HAMS, to cure.—If the weather be cool, hang it up two days before it is salted. Beat it with a rolling- pin. Take plenty of common salt, | lb. of course sugar, and 4 ozs. of saltpetre; mix; warm; rub the ham with it well, and lay the rest of the salt upon it; in two days turn it; rub it well with brine; baste it several times a-day for a month, for a large ham; drain, wash off the salt with cold water; dry with a cloth ; rub black pep- per over the inside and in at the knuckle ; hang in a warm room to dry. Another way.—Hang two days as before; if large, use 1 lb. of bay salt; 4 ozs. saltpetre; 1 lb. coarse sugar, and a handful of common salt, all finely powdered. Rub in the mixture thoroughly. Lay the rind downwards, and cover the fleshy parts with the mixture. Baste it often for four weeks, turning every day; pro- ceed as before. To give a high flavour.—Hang as before. Sprinkle it with salt; let it drain; make a pickle of 1 quart of strong beer, \ lb. of trea- cle, 1 oz. of coriander seeds, 2 ozs. juniper berries; pepper, allspice, saltpetre, 1 oz. each; salprunella, 2 oz.; a handful of salt, and a head of shalot, sliced ; boil all to- gether five minutes, and pour over the ham. Rub and turn every