208 INF INF too ill to give it, it is better to let it wait a few hours, than to give it any kind of food. But if it is very craving, mix milk with soft boiled water, and give it half a tea- spoonful at a time, only warm, for its mouth cannot bear much heat. Let it swallow one little portion before another is offered, and raise its head that it may pass the gullet easily. Do not overload the sto- mach, which may greatly disorder the infant, and become the foun- dation of gluttony. If a mother cannot suckle the child, get a healthy cheerful wo- man, with young milk, who is fond of infants. After the first six months, broths, and simple food, may do as well as living wholly upon milk. If milk cannot be had, a tea- spoonful of the yolk of a fresh egg, well beaten and mixed with two table-spoonfuls of soft boiled water will do instead. Three inches square of lean veal, and one inch thick, will make soup for a baby for two or three days. Boil only half at once, in a pint of soft water, down to two-thirds. Strain. When cold, take off the scum. Warm a little as wanted. A thin gruel al- so may be made from rice flour. In the latter part of the first year, pure water may occasionaUy be given. Those parents who accus- tom their children to drink water only, bestow on them a benefit, the value of which will be sensi- bly felt through life. Habits of intemperance, the curse of after life, are often laid in infancy. Rising early in the morning is good for all children, provided they awake of themselves, which they generally do; they ought not to be waked out of their sleep. Children, till they are two or three years old must never be allowed to walk long enough to be weary. In laying a child to sleep, place it upon the right side oftener than on the left, but twice in the twenty- four hours it should be changed to the left side. Laying it on its back when it awakes, is enough of that posture, in which alone it can move its legs and arms with freedom. Place the cradle so that the light may come equally on both eyes, to prevent squinting. Infants cannot sleep too long. Sleep promotes a more calm and uniform circulation of the blood, and facilitates assimilation of the nutriment received. Mothers and nurses should try to accustom in- fants, from the time of their birth, to sleep in the night, preferably to the day. To awaken children from sleep with a noise, or in an impetuous manner, is unwise and hurtful; also to carry them from a dark room immediately into a glaring light, for the sudden impression of light debilitates the organs of vision, and lays the foundation of weak eyes from infancy. Infants are sometimes very rest- less at night, caused by either cramming them with too much food, by tight night clothes, or by being overheated with blankets, &c. Never give an infant wine, spirits, or any drug, to make it sleep. Milk, water, or both mixed, whey or thin gruel; these are the fittest for infants. The more simple and light their diet and drink, the more they will thrive. A bed-room or nursery, ought to be spacious and lofty, dry, airy, and not inhabited through the day. Feather beds should be banished from nurseries, as they are an un- natural and debilitating contriv- ance. The windows should never be opened at night, but left open the whole day, in fine clear weather.