CUE cus 137 stir it well, and boil half an hour. CURRANT JELLY, red or black.—Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar stew them in a sauce-pan of water, or on the fire ; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh 1 lb. of loaf-sugar ; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or China-vessel, till nearly dissol- ved ; then put it into a preserving- pan ; simmer and skim. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. CURRANTS, to preserve for Tarts.—Let the currants be ripe, dry, and well picked. To every 1J lb." of currants, put 1 lb. of sugar into a preserving pan with as much juice of currants as will dissolve it; when it boils skim it, and put in the currants; boil till clear; jar, and put brandy-paper over ; tie down ; keep in a dry place. CURRANT SHRUB.—To ev- ery quart of juice, add 1 lb. of fine white sugar, and a quarter of a pint of brandy. Bottle and cork. CU RRAN TS, Syrups of Black. ■—Half a pint of strained juice of black currants ; fine sugar, 12 ozs. Dissolve the sugar in a pint of wa- ter, and boil to make a syrup. It is valuable for sore throats; it cleanses from phlegm, and abates thirst and fever. CURRANT WINE.—Gather the currants when ripe, strip them, and squeeze out the juice; to one gallon of the juice put two gallons of cold water and two spoonfuls of yeast; let it ferment two days; strain through a hair sieve; and to every gallon of liquor add 3 lbs. of loaf-sugar, stir it well together, put it in a good cask; to every 10 gallons of wine put one quart of brandy; close well up and let it stand four months, then bottle it; a few raspberries will improve the flavour. CURRY, Indian way of dress- ing.—Stew your meat in water enough to cover it. Mix the curry powder with milk, salt, and lemon juice ; add this to the meat liquor ; fry a few onions to a light brown, and put them in just before dishiDg. CURRY POWDER. — Take 3 ozs. of coriander; 1 oz. black pepper; mustard and ginger, of each, | oz.; lesser cardamoms, cayenne, and cummin seed, of each, a oz. Dry them well, and powder fine; mix, and keep in a well- stopped bottle. Hu. CURRY STEW.—Cow-heel is the best material for a dish of curry. Being mucilaginous, it absorbs the nature of the curry, and gives a better flavour to the meat. If a rabbit or fowl, cut into small bits, add butter, or rich gravy to the meat, and onion in thin slices; put into a stew-pan. Stew over a gentle fire for twenty minutes. Mix a table-spoonful of flour with one of salt, in water, half a cupful of cream, if you like, and three or four tea-spoonfuls of curry powder, and the juice of a lemon. Stir all well together, and boil from ten to twenty minutes. CURRY, to dress. — Cut up fowls or rabbits; put J lb. of but- ter into a stew-pan, and when melted put in the meat, with two onions sliced ; brown well, and add j pint of gravy; simmer 20 min- utes ; mix in a basin a table-spoon- ful of curry powder, one of flour, and a little salt, mix it smooth with water; simmer all in the pan 20 uiinutes ; add lemon juice, and a bit of butter. Hu. CUSTARDS, Almond. — Take of almonds, £ lb., blanch and beat them very fine, put them into a pint of cream, with two spoonfuls of rose-water. Sweeten it to your palate ; beat up the yolks of four eggs, very fine, and put them in. Stir all together one way over tho