ABS ABO 9 he has reduced a number of stran- gulated hernias by this method alone, when they had been doom- ed to undergo an operation. While these means are being used, manual aid must be used, called taxis, (meaning the replace- ment of parts by the hand). The position of the patient requires care and skill. His legs and but- tocks should be elevated as high as possible, forming an angle, if possible, of 4o degrees. This may be effected by placing the back parts of a chair underneath him. His thighs and the body should be a little flexed or bent, in order to relax the muscles. The tumour should then be seized, and moder- ate pressure made, in order to re- turn the viscera. The constant application of a solution of alum in a strong decoc- tion of oak bark (two drachms to a pint) has been recommended by some surgeons for the radical cure of rupture in the groin. It is ap- plied by means of soft linen, which should be wetted as soon as it be- comes dry. In incipient cases this topical remedy, by constring- ing the part, may succeed in pre- venting the escape of intestine or omentum through the abdominal ring. The compress should for some time be kept on the part by a bandage or a truss with easy springs. ABORTION, to prevent.—~Wo- men of a weak or relaxed habit should use solid food, avoiding great quantities of tea and other weak and watery liquors. They should go soon to bed and rise early, and take frequent exercise, but avoid being over-fatigued. If of a full habit, they ought to use a spare diet, and chiefly of the vegetable kind, avoiding strong liquors, and every thing that may tend to heat the body, or increase the quantity of blood. In the first case, take daily half a pint of decoction of Lignum Guiacum; boiling an ounce of it in a quart of water for five min- utes. In the latter case, give half a drachm of powdered nitre in a cup of water-gruel, every five or six hours; in both cases she should sleep on a hard mattress with her head low, and be kept eool and quiet. ABSCESS.—They require the application of warm poultices and fomentations, and a cooling aperi- ent medicine. The best fomenta- tion comprises a decoction of marsh mallows, camomile flowers, poppy- heads, or hemlock leaves. The poultice may be made of bread and water, or linseed meal. These to be applied till the abscess bursts. When burst, allow the discharge of purulent matter, and after it has ceased, apply moist rags for a day or two; then draw together the edges of the wound by means of diachylon plaster, and to the wound apply Cerate or Spermaceti Ointment. It is necessary some- times when the bursting is slow and tedious, and the pain great, to open the abscess with the point of a lancet, which prevents much suffering. When the abscess is indolent, find slow in ripening, apply a poultice of oatmeal, and water, and yeast, and a little salt. Let the patient live on nourishing diet. Keep the body open; and if the pain be great, mix with the aperient, about 10 or 12 drops of laudanum. ABSCESS, Millc.—This abscess affects mothers, and requires care- ful treatment. Apply every two hours warm vinegar to the part. This, if done in time, soon gives relief.