175 GAR GAR planting: frame peas, horn car- rots, mazagan beans, onions (to be allowed to grow large); plant i out cabbage plants to succeed those I which have been planted out in autumn. February.-KQ. the ground which , is destined for early crops must now be prepared, and hot-beds be multiplied for cucumbers and early melons. Celery may be sown on a moderate hot-bed; also sow cab- Ibages, horn carrots, lettuces, leeks, parsnips, and in fact most of the I table vegetables. Those plants, such as cabbages, chives, garlic, ; shalots, underground onions, and horseradish, which are fit, should now be transplanted. March.—In open borders sow asparagus, cabbages, carrots, and Hamburgh parsley, Neapolitan > kale, parsnips, onions, &c.; plant out such vegetables as have been already sown. Before sowing, dig carefully, and make the ground level and fine. Main crops may he sown in this month, such as early long-pod beans, peas, celery, turnips, and, indeed, most other vegetables. Mustard, cress, let- tuce, spinach, and radishes, may be sown every week or fortnight, for succession. Chives, shalots, garlic, &c., may be planted; also rhubarb, potatoes, Jerusalem arti- chokes. Cuttings, or slips of sweet herbs may be planted. April.—Planting the vegetables i which have been sown is now the chief business. Make hot-beds for cucumbers and melons ; force kidney beans and Victoria rhubarb. Plant out artichokes and potatoes ; sow asparagus, beets, cabbages, ’ celery, garden and kidney beans, Dutch turnips, lettuces, peas, ’ radishes, small salading. May.—Sow carrots, lettuce, cap- sicums, cauliflowers, spinach, Knight's marrow-fat peas, cam- pions, &c. Transplant cabbages, winter greens, lettuces, and celery. Hoe and stake peas, water newly planted crops, and propagate aro- matic plants by slips and cuttings. Protect from wind and rain choice tulips, ranunculuses, and anemo- nies. Propagate herbaceous plants by dividing the roots; wall- flowers, sweet-williams, and rock- ets, by slips; and China roses, heliotropiums, &c., by cuttings. June.—Sow Cape brocoli, kid- ney beans, peas, lettuces, Campi- ons, spinach, small salading, &c. The best peas for sowing now are Knight’s marrow-fat peas; they will bear till October. Hoe the table vegetables, and pick out the most curled plants of curled pars- ley, cress, and chervil, for seed. Watering the freshly-planted crops must now be attended to in dry weather in the evenings, or very early in the mornings. Weeding and thinning out are also of im- portance, as well as hoeing, par- ticularly with potatoes, cabbages, and peas. July.—Plant cabbages, savoys, coleworts, brocoli, lettuce, celery, &c. Train and regulate the sum- mer shoots both of wall trees and standards; prune vine and fig- trees, and shade ripe currants that are exposed to the full blaze of the sun. Place nets on the cherries to protect them from birds. Take up garlic, onions, and shalots, as their leaves begin to decay. August.—Both cabbages, broc- oli, endive, spinach, Welsh onions, turnips, and radishes should now be sown. The celery sown should be planted, and that already plant- ed, as well as cardoons, should be earthed up. Segjtember.—Sow vegetable seed for a spring crop. Prick out cab- bage plants, and gather ripe seeds. Endive and lettuce may be planted