BRO BRO 81 air-tubes, delirium, and suffoca- tion. Frequently, the collapse is very rapid, inducing dissolution in two or three days. Cure.—The loss of vitality in the system has caused a diminish- ed temperature, chills, coldness of the surface and extremities, im- perfect cutaneous functions and the effusion of impure blood on the mucous membrane of the bronchia; followed by irritation and con- gestion, and the secretion of mu- cous hinders the breathing. Na- ture requires the removal of these obstructions. Place the feet in warm water, and administer warm and mucilaginous drinks; as, linseed tea, barley water, with a little lemon juice; balm tea ; gentle aperients, if required ; foot-baths, and hot bran poul- tices to the chest. The sur- face of the body should occasional- ly be bathed with warm water and i carbonate of soda. The vapour ’ bath also is recommended. Nothing is so effectual as nau- i seating medicines. The design of all remedies in this disease is to i dislodge the tenacious and viscid secretion which lines the air-tubes, and the impure blood must be i corrected and returned to the sur- face. Emetics have a specific ac- tion on the respiratory organs, dislodging the bronchial phlegm, and removing the tension of the | parts. Take 4 grains of Ipecacuanha i powder, in a little warm water, every twenty minutes, till vomi- ting takes place. Repeat if neces- sary. Or take the following emetic:— Lobelia, 6 drachms; Skunk Cabbage, 3 drachms; Ipecacuan- ha, 4 drachms; Cayenne Pepper, half a drachm. Powder and mix. A teaspoonful in camomile tea, every twenty minutes till it oper- ates. It is most effectual in clear- ing the lungs from accumulated matter.* Laborious breathing may be re- lieved by inhaling steam from a decoction of bitter herbs, or even hot water. Gentle perspiration must be promoted, and medicines employed to allay the cough, if troublesome. The following is a good mixture:— Ipecacuanha wine, 1 drachm; Aromatic Spirit of Ammonia, 2 drachms; Carbonate of Potash, 1 drachm; water, 8 ounces; and if the cough be irritable, add a grain of Acetate of Morphia—take two table-spoonfuls every four hours. Or, take Almond Oil, half ounce; Solution of the Carbonate of Soda, half drachm; Syrup of Tolu, one ounce; Syrup of Pop- pies, one ounce; Water, six ounces. Mix, and take two table spoonfuls every two or three hours. Perspiration may be promoted by taking the Sudorific Powder. See Sudorific Powder. Counter-irritants are some- times effectual, as mustard plas- ters ; and in extreme cases, small blistering plasters to the chest. Dr. Beach recommends flannels dipped in a decoction of hops and wormwood, boiled in vinegar ; the flannels to be gently wrung, and applied as hot and as often as pos- sible over the bronchial tubes, or the upper part of the chest. If it produces an eruption, it is favour- able. The bowels must not be neglec- ted, but kept open by gentle aperi- ents, as castor oil, a weak infusion of salts and senna, according to the strength of the patient. This tends to cool the system, and di- *Tliese Herbs are sold by the Medi- cal Botanists. Not many Druggists keep them. F