424 TYP TWI day; then take the fat and sedi- ment from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till ten- der ; season with salt and pepper. Before serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Simmer a small roll in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. TWELFTH CAKE.—Flour, butter, sifted loaf sugar, of each, 2 lbs.; 18 eggs ; currants, 4 lbs.; almonds, blanched and chopped, | lb.; citron, | lb.; candied or- ange and lemon-peel, cut into thin slices, 1 lb.; alargenutmeggrated; ground allspice, 1 oz.; ground cinnamon, mace, ginger, and cor- riander, \ oz. each, and a gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stew-pan, and work it into a smooth cream with the hand, and mix it with the sugar and spice for some time; break in the eggs by degrees, and beat 20 minutes. Stir in the bran- dy, then the flour, and work it a little ; add the fruit, sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all together lightly. Have ready a hoop, cased with paper on a baking plate; put in the mixture; smooth it on the top with the hand dipped in milk, Put the plate upon another elevated a little, to prevent the bottom from colouring too much. Bake it in a slow oven four hours or more, and when nearly cold, spread the ice over it. TWIST, to make.—Put 6 lbs. of loaf sugar into a pan with If int of water, boil it gradually for alf an hour; when it is boiled enough it will snap like glass, by putting the tube of a pipe into the pan, and then into water; after which pour it out on a smooth stone till cold ; then take ar part of that, and pull it on a long nail till it becomes very white; then lap it over the other which is on the stone; and make it up either for twist, or cut it in short lengths. TWIST, Common.—Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in a pint of water over a slow fire; skim it not; when boiled enough, pour it on a stone; take a part of it and pull it like wax, and it will turn white, twist it over the other, and roll it small; then cut it into lengths of twist. Put a few drops of the oil of peppermint into the sugar when boiled andpoureduponthe stone, to flavour it. TWIST, Paradise.—Boil 3 lbs. of loaf sugar in half a pint of wa- ter, for half an hour; put in it a little gum water to clear it and a table-spoonful of vinegar, which will cause it to give you more time to make it up ; pull one part of it and lap it over the other; cut it into twist, roll and streak it with red and white. TYPHUS FEVER. From the Greek tuphos, stupor. It is generally indicated by certain well-marked symptoms. It is characterised by great lethargy, prostration of muscular power, and sometimes delirium. It commences with pain in the head, slight shiverings, vomiting, debility, sighing, loss of appetite, oppressive breathing, great mental anxiety and depression, uneasiness in the back; the pulse is quick and small, dry tongue, with a brown or black crust; urine pale, then high-coloured with a bad smell, evacuations black and offen- sive, breath hot and offensive. The delirium becomes more con- stant, and at length changes to a stupor. An eruption of livid spots sometimes appears. Great purg- ing, cold clammy perspiration, and hiccup, precede its fatal term- ination.