435 YEG VEG as lino as possible, but do not chop it.—Put to it a very little lemon- peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoon- fuls of either a little weak broth, milk, or water; simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sip- pets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape, round the dish. Poached eggs may be served with it. YEAL, to pot. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may do it as follows:— Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some mace, pepper-coms, and two or three cloves; lay it close into a potting-pan that will just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake it three hours; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste; put a little gravy that was ! baked to it in pounding, if to be I eaten soon; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. YEAL, or CHICKEN, to pot. —Pound some cold veal or white of chicken, seasoned as directed in the last article, and put layers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred; press each down and cover with butter. YEAL, to steio a breast of.— Stew it gently till tender in some stock, a glass of sherry, some sweet herbs, as marjorum, lemon thyme, onions, mace, cloves, pepper, salt, and a few mushrooms. When done, strain, and skim the sauce. Garnish with forcemeat balls. VEGETABLE CAUSTIC.— Bum oak or beech wood to ashes. : Make a ley from them, and sim- mer it till it becomes rather thicker than cream ; the evaporation may be continued in the sun. Spread on leather when used. It is valu- able in cancers, fistulas, scrofulous and indolent ulcers, where there is proud flesh. VEGETABLES, to dress.— Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment they are done enough. If over- boiled, they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat; which is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. VEGETABLES, to boil green. —Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don’t cover, but watch them; and if the water has not slackened, you may be sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take them out immediately or the colour will change. Hard water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be green. To boil them green in hard water, put a teaspoonful of salt of worm- wood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are put in. VEGETABLE MARROW, To boil or stew.—This excellent vegetable may be boiled as aspar- agus. When boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it upon a toast accompanied by melt- ed. butter; or when nearly boiled, divide it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches in length. VEGETABLE PIE. Scald and blanch some broad beans: cut oung carrots, turnips, artichoke- ottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, lettuce, parsley, or any of them you have; make the whole into a nice stew with some good veal gravy. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge,