BRA 74 BRA —Neglect of them bringa on all aorta of diseases, and many per- sons are apt to neglect them. Many years ago, an old gentleman at Greenock, left, at his death, a number of sealed packets to his friends, and opening them, they found a Bible, £50, and a box of Pills, with the words, “ Fear God, and keep your boivels open.” It was good advice, though it might have been more decorously word- ed. If you were a doctor, you would be astonished how many violent diseases of the mind, as well as of the body, are produced by irregularity of the bowels. The old Greeks, who were always seek- ing after wisdom, but did not al- ways find it, showed their know- ledge and sense in calling depres- sion of the mind melancholy, which means black bile. BRAIN, Inflammation of.—It begins with inflammatory fever, a flushed countenance, redness of the eyes, pain in the head, dis- turbed sleep, dryness of skin, con- stipation, restlessness, irritabili- ty, pain in the stomach, a tendency to delirium. It is caused by hard study, in- temperance, grief, anxiety, stop- ping «of evacuations, exposure to the heat of the sun, external in- juries, &c., respiration deep and slow, and sometimes difficult. The disease is a dangerous one, and often proves fatal in a few days, if not speedily arrested. Cure.—Promote the evacua- tions. Remove constipation by purgatives, clysters, and ftiix ni- tre with tea and other beverages. Divert the blood from the head by restoring the circulation in the ex- tremities—equalize the circulation. Bathe up to the knees in warm water. In excessive inflamma- tion, apply cups to the temples, and the nape of the neck. Perspi- ration should also be promoted as much as possible. Should the dis- ease appear obstinate, put a mus- tard plaster between the shoulders, and to the feet at night. Fre- quently apply vinegar cloths to the head and temples. The less irritation, noise, light, and the better it will be for the patient. “Cold water to the head,” says an eminent physician, “and tepid or hot water to the surface of the body, have a powerful effect in forcing the congested blood from the head, and restoring an equi- librium in the circulation. The food must be simple and light, as panado, water-gruel, toast and water, or lemonade, light jellies, barley-water. Nothing stimulating must be taken. BRAN BEER.—Good bran, 1 bushel; water, (to produce,) 18 gallons; hops, \ pound. Mash with hot water, and ferment in the usual way. This beer will cost about three-pence per gallon; two or three pounds of sugar, or four or five of treacle, improve it. BRANDRETH’S FAMOUS PILLS.—Aloes, 4 ounces; Gam- boge, 2,ounces; Extract of Colo- cynth, £ ounce; Castile Soap, 2 ounces; Peppermint, £ drachm ; Cayenne Pepper, § drachm. Mix and form into pills. BRANDY BITTERS.— Bruised gentian, 8 ounces; orange- peel, 4 ounces; cardamoms, 3 ounces; cassia, 1 ounce; cochi- neal, 5 ounce; spirit, 1 gallon. Digest for one week, then decant the clear, and pour on the dregs, water, 5 pints. Digest for one week longer, decant, and mix the two tinctures together. BRASS AND COPPER, to clean. Gently rub the article with sweet oil, and then with finely powdered rotten stone; clean, and polish with line leather.