318 PLE PLE quantity of Venetian turpentine is added to it, by which the brit- tleness of the paste is destroyed. In order to prevent its clinging to the hands whilst the Venetian tur- pentine is being worked into the paste, a small quantity of lin- seed oil is added from time to time. The mass may also be coloured by kneading in any colour that may be desired. It may be pressed in- to shapes, and used for the produc- tion of has reliefs and other figures, such as animals &c. It may also be worked by hand into models, during which operation the hands must be rubbed with linseed oil; the mass must also be kept warm during the process. "When it cools and dries, which takes place in a few hours, it becomes as hard as stone, and may then be employed for the multiplication of these forms. PLATE, to clean.—Wash well with soap and water; then apply a paste of whiting and sweet oil; apply it, and when dry, rub off, and polish with wash leather and dry fine whiting. PLATE, to make look new.— Take 1 lb. each of unslaked lime and alum; a pint each of aqua vita, and vinegar; and two quarts of beer grounds; boil the plate in these, and they will give a beauti- ful gloss to the articles. PLATE, to take stains out of. —Steep the plate in soap ley for 4 hours ; then cover it over with whiting, wet with vinegar, so that it may stick thickly upon it; dry at the fire; rub off the whiting and pass it over with dry bran; the spots will disappear, and the plate will be very bright. PLEURISY.—Pleurisy is in- flammation of the membrane termed pleura, which covers the lungs, and lines the internal surface of the chest. It is caused by obstruc- ted perspiration, through exposure to cold bleak winds; drinking cold liquors when the body is hot; sleeping out-doors, or on the damp ground, wet clothes, exposure to the cold air when in a state of per- spiration. It may also be caused by drinking strong liquors, by the stopping of the usual evacuations, &c., &c. The symptoms are shivering, pain in the head, back, stomach; sickness, and vomiting, despond- ency, violent pain in one or both sides, difficult breathing, high fe- ver, thirst; the pain is greater when coughing, or when taking in a full breath ; the pulse is hard, strong, and frequent. Treatment.—In this disease the temperature of the whole body and its extremities, while the heat in the affected part is greatly aug- mented. Allopathists would re- cur to bleeding at once; but that system of depletion is not neces- sary. Common sense says, equal- ize the circulation of the blood, and this can only be done by restoring that which has been partially lost or diminished, viz..vitality or heat. See Robinson’s Herbal, on Life and Motion, page 388 ; it is most valuable. The disease has been caused by cold; it must be cured by a wise application of heat. Do this at the very beginning of the disease before the patient is debili- tated. Give a vapour bath; or bathe the feet in warm water and apply hot bricks wrapped in water and vinegar cloths while the pa- tient is in bed. Give also an emetic at the same time, page 155. "When the emetic has taken effect, give immediately two tablespoon- fuls of the sudorifc tincture, or half a teaspoonful of the sudorific powders. Continue them to keep up a gentle moisture on the skin. If they cause vomiting, never mind,