247 MEA MEA mustard plaster to the chest, and repeat, if necessary; and give the Expectorant Syrup or Tincture, page 159; or inhale the steam of warm water, in which 30 or 40 drops of laudanum have been in- troduced. If the head is affected, continue to bathe the feet in warm water. Should there be much restlessness and pain, give the Diaphoretic Powder, or Decoction, page 143. From the first attack of the measles, keep the bowels regular. A voluntary looseness indicates a favourable crisis; and, if moderate, it should not be check- ed. When it is very severe, it should be checked by some mild astringent; as, an infusion of rasp- berry leaves; or an infusion of raspberry leaves and a few drops of laudanum. Should the system be much debilitated, with a tend- ency to putrescency, the strength should be supported with cordials, beef tea, calf’s feet jelly, and an infusion of Peruvian Bark in port wine. Give also an infusion of malt with two table-spoonfuls of yeast to a quart of the former, in order to neutralize the putrescence indicated by purple spots, &c. Patients recovering from the measles should not expose them- selves too soon to the cold air. The food ought for some time to be light, and the drink diluting. Cooling lenitive medicines are es- sentially necessary after this dis- ease, to carry off the remaining disposition to inflammatory affec- tion of the lungs. Through every stage of the disease, the state of the lungs must be carefully re- garded, for it is from the effect on them that the danger of the measles in most cases depend. It is necessary also to give tonic bit- ters for the recovery of the former strength, to breathe a pure air, and if the lungs will bear it, and the weather suitable, to take gentle open air exercise. MEAT, Observation on.—In all kinds of provisions, the best of the kind goes the farthest; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most nourishment. Round of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints of higher price; but as they have more solid meat, they deserve the preference. But those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the kernels of beef. Do not purchase joints bruised by the blows of the drovers. Save shank bones of mutton to enrich gravies or soups. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify. Dripping will baste any thing as well as butter; except fowls and game; and for kitchen pies, no- thing else should be used. The fat of a neck or loin of mut- ton makes a far lighter pudding than suet. Frosted meat and vegetables should be soaked in cold water two or three hours before using. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. Roast-beef bones, or shank bones of ham, make fine peas-soup; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. MEAT, To lceep in hot weather, §c.—Place the meat on a wooden support, or suspend it in a close vessel, on the bottom of which some strong acetic vinegar is poured. Meat may be kept sweet a long time by thus impregnating the atmos- phere with acetic acid,