VEA 431 VEA The kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. YEAL, a la daube.—Cut oft the chuuip end of the loin; take out the edge-bone; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took out, a little fagot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, ! and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal.—Serve it on mushrooms; or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. VEAL BROTH.—Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. Another.—Knuckle of veal, two turnips, two carrots, two heads of I celery, and six onions; stew them in a gallon of water till reduced to one half; add a lump of butter i rolled in flour, with a little cay- enne, and salt; strain, and add a gill of cream ; 2 ozs. of vermicelli may be added with good effect. VEAL CAKE.—Boil six or eight eggs hard; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot: shake in a j little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, then add eggs again; shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put 1 in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould; and then it will turn out beauti- fully for a supper or side dish. VEAL COLLOPS.—Cut long thincollops; beat them well; and lay on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlic and Cayenne. Roll them up tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long; put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly; rub egg over; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. VEAL COLLOPS, to dress quick.—Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the collops; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry ; for as they are so thin, two minutes will do them on both sides; put them into a hot dish before the fire; then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the frying-pan, and pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an improvement. VEAL CUTLETS, in Crust.— Make a marinade with melted butter or lard, mushrooms, shalots, half a clove of garlic, pepper, and salt; simmer the cutlets in this about half an hour; then wrap them in puff paste, with all the seasoning; put them in a deep dish; bake them in an oven, aud baste with yolks of eggs; make a hole in the middle, into which pour a clear sauce. VEAL CUTLETS, Maintenon. —Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg; dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, par-