QUA QUA 338 14. No person is to be basted for a renounce, unless the trick is turned and quitted; and if any renounce is discovered in time, should the player happen to be basted by such a renounce, all the parties are to play three cards over again. 15. Forced spadille is not obliged to play for the vole, nor make three tricks. 16. Whoever undertakes to play the vole, has the preference of play- ing before him who offers to play “ sans prendre.” 17. If agreeable to all parties, let the person have the preference of playing, who plays for the most tricks, which will prevent small games. 18. The ombre is entitled to know his king called, before he declares for the vole. 19. When six tricks are played, he who won the sixth ought to say, “ I play the vole,” or, “I do not play the vole,” or “I ask;” and nothing else. 20. He who wins the vole is to take the double stake played for, out of the pool. 21. He who asks leave (if elder hand,) may play “sans prendre,” in preference to any of the other players. 22. A player who has one or more kings, may call himself, but must win six tricks. 23. If you play the king surren- dered, he must win six tricks who demands the king of any player. 24. He who has passed once (un- less spadille) has no right to call afterwards; also he who has ask- ed is obliged to'play, unless some- body else plays “ sans prendre.” 25. If the ombre or his friend show their cards, before they have won six tricks, the adversaries may call their cards as they please. 26. Whoever asks leave, cannot play “sans prendre, ” unless forced. 27. You may look at all the tricks turned, when you are to lead, but not otherwise. 28. Whoever undertakes playing for the vole and does not succeed, has a right to the stakes “sans prendre,” and matadores, if he has them, having won his game. 29. Any person discovering his game, is not entitled to play for the vole. 30. If there happen to be two cards of one sort, and found out be- fore the deal is ended, the deal is void, but not otherwise. 31. Nobody is to declare how many trumps are played out. 32. He who calls and does not make three tricks, is to be basted alone, unless forced spadille. QUAILS, to fricassee.—Having tossed them up in a saucepan with a little melted butter, and mush- rooms, put in a slice of ham, well beaten, with salt, pepper, cloves, and savory herbs; add good gravy, and a glass of sherry; simmer over a slow fire; when almost done, thicken the ragout with a good cullis, (i. e. a good broth, strained, gellatined, &c.) or with two or three eggs, well beaten up in a little gravy. QUAILS, to roast.—Roast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eat- en with them, as gravy takes off the fine flavour. The thigh and , back are the most esteemed. QUAKING PUDDING.- Scald a quart of cream; when I almost cold, put to it four eggs I well beaten, a spoonful and a half j of flour, some nutmegs and sugar? I tie it close in a buttered cloth; boil I it an hour, and turn it out with [ care, lest it should crack. Melted • butter, a little wine and sugar. QUASSIA.—This plant derives its name from Quassi, a negro of