204 ICE HYS throat, with the feeling of suffoca- tion, convulsions, laughing and crying without any apparent cause. Almost every part of the nervous system is liable to this affection. The disease seldom proves fatal. It is caused by menstrual irregu- larities, indolence, irregular living, costiveness, indigestion, worms, obstructed perspiration, &c. An hysteric fit may be easily distinguished from fainting ; for, in fainting the pulse and respira- tion are entirely stopped; in hys- terics, they are both perceptible. Treatment. First loosen the dress, and dash cold water in the face. It is of the greatest im- portance to put the feet and legs in warm water as soon as possible. Give an emetic. The Expectorant Tincture must be given to remove the rising in the throat, the sense of suffocation, collected phlegm, &c. If the patient cannot swallow, pour it into the mouth, and it will relax the jaws, &c-., and cause the atient to swallow; it will send the lood to the surface and extremities, affect the brain and nervous system so as to end the attack even by a single dose. The vapour bath should be given as soon as possible. Or, put the patient to bed, and apply hot bricks or bottles of hot water to the feet and sides; the bottles to be folded in cloths wet with vinegar and water. Should these means fail give the Anodyne Pow- ders ; (see Appendix.) Give also gentle aperients; and above all, do not neglect to give the Nervous Pill which is wonderfully efficaci- ous. The aperients may be assist- ed by injections of gruel, § oz. of the tincture of assafeetida, or a table-spoonful of spirits of turpen- tine ; sweeten with treacle. Tonics, os quinine, should be freely given. If the disease arises from obstruct- ed menses, worms, &c., the case must be treated as directed under those complaints. ICE, to procure.—(fizz Freezing Mixture.)—Nearly fill a gallon stone bottle with hot spring water (leaving room for about a pint), and put in 2 ozs. of refined nitre; the bottle must be stopped very close, and let down into a deep well. After three or four hours it will be completely frozen; but the bottle must be broken to procure the ice. If the bottle is moved up and down, so as to be sometimes in and sometimes out of the water, the consequent evaporation will hasten the process. ICE CREAM.—Put into a bucket 1 lb. of ice broken very small; throw two handfuls of salt, among it, and have it in the cool- est place you can find. Put the cream into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw the ice round the pot, so as to touch every part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. Stirring quickly increases the cold. There should be holes in the bucket to let out the ice as it thaws. The cream for icing is thus made :—New milk, 1 quart; yolks of 6 eggs; fine sugar, 4 ozs. Mix. Strain. Heat gently, and then cool. ICEING, for Calces.—Beat the whites of two eggs to a solid froth, add 8 ozs. of finely powdered white sugar; mix in the juice of a quarter of a lemon. Place the cakes be- fore the fire; pour over them the icing, and smooth over the sides and tops with a knife. Set them to dry at the mouth of a cool oven. ICEING, for Tarts.—Beat the yolk of an egg, and some melted butter well together; wash the