18 ANC ANI water, and avoid taking cold. Ap- ply blistering or mustard plasters to the back of the ears. AMBER PUDDING.—Put a pound of butter into a sauce-pan, with three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar finely powdered; melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. Hu. ANCHOVIES, to choose.—They are preserved in barrels, with bay- salt: no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor red- dish, and have a fine smell. ANCHOVIES, Essence of.— Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and without the bone, but with some of their liquor strained, add to them sixteen large spoon- fuls of water; boil gently till dissol- ved, which will be in a few minutes —when cold, strain and bottle it. ANCHOVY SAUCE.—Chop one or two anchovies, without washing, put to them some flour and butter, and a little water; stir it over the tire till it boils once or twice. If the anchovies are good, they will dissolve. ANCHOVY TOAST. —Bone and skin six or eight anchovies; pound them to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toast or rusks. Another way.—Cutthinslices of bread into any form, and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies, split, pound them in a mortar with 6ome fresh but- ter, rub them through a hair-sieve, and spread on the toast when cold. Then quarter and wash some an- chovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. Iiu. ANDERSON’S PILLS,-Con- sist of Barbadoes aloes, with a proportion of jalap, and oil of anise seed. In general they are safe, except the patient has piles; and in pregnancy it is better to use other purgatives. ANIMAL FOOD.—Man iscall- ed a carniverous animal. Where animal food is seldom or not al- lowed, mortality is great, and dis- ease rife. One of the most common forms of disease generated by an ex- clusively vegetable diet is scrofula, and when traceable to this cause, the most speedy remedy is the ad- dition of animal food to the diet. There are also many other forms of disease produced by the want of ani- mal food, which require for their cure but an abundant supply of the needed material. But it may be eaten too often. It contains much grease, or oil, by which di- gestion is frequently impaired, the bile vitiated, the blood corrupted, cutaneous and other diseases in- duced. High-seasoned meat, with condiments, often produce dyspep- sia, flatulency, &c. By all, animal food should be eaten sparingly. By frequent participation, the springs of life are hurried on too fast, and often bilious, plethoric, and in- flammatory effects follow. Dr. Beach says, “Among other ill effects of animal food is a tem- orary fever after eating it, called y the old medical writers, “ the fever of digestion." No such ef- fects follow the use of vegetable food.” Dr. Dick considers it incompati- ble with a state of innocence, to