MIL MIL 255 Scotch 1984 Silesian .. 7083 Spanish legal leguas 4630 Do. Do. common 7416 Swedish .. .. .. 11704 Swiss 9166 Turkey (berries) 1821 Westphalian mile .. 12155 MICE. See Eats; the same directions are applicable to Mice. MILDEW, to remove. — Soap the linen previously wetted, and apply salt and lemon juice to both sides; or apply finely powdered pipe clay, or fullers earth, or finely powdered chalk. Expose it for several hours to the atmosphere. MILDEW, to remove. — Mix soft soap with powdered starch, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon, and lay on with a brush. Let it lay on the grass day and night till the stain is gone. Or, take 2 ozs. of chloride of lime, pour on it a quart of boiling water, then add three quarts of cold water; steep the linen 10 or 12 hours, when every spot will be extracted. Mix oxalic acid, citric acid, and milk together; rub into the linen ; repeat as it dries; wash, and bleach on the grass. MILK, Chalk to detect in.—Di- lute the milk with water; the chalk if there be any, will settle to the bottom in an hour or two ; put to the sediment an acid, vinegar, &c., and if effervescence takes place, it is chalk. MILK OF LOSES, a Cos- metic., common.—Mix 4 ozs. of the oil of almonds with half a gallon of rose-water, and add 40 drops of the oil of tartar. Or, take 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, 2 quarts of rose-water, 1 pint of spirits of wine, J oz. of oil of lav- ender, 1 oz. of white Windsor soap, and 2 ozs. of cream of roses. Blanch the almonds in boiling wa- ter; dry well, and pound into a paste. Pound in the soap, and mix it well with the almond paste; then add the cream of roses ; mix, and add the rose-water and spirits. Strain, and add the oil of lavender gradually, and stir well. Bottle. The French Method.—Mix 4 ozs. of oil of almonds, J oz. oil of lav- ender, 2 quarts of spirits of wine, and 10 ozs. of rose-water; blanch 3 lbs. of Jordan almonds; pound them with j- lb. of Spanish oil soap, | oz. of spermaceti, and half oz. of white wax. Put all into a large jar, with 2 ozs. of pearlash dissolved in 1 oz. of warm water. Shake well, and bottle. MILK PORRIDGE.—Make a fine gruel of split grits, long boiled, or of Yorkshire oatmeal; strain, if you like; add either cold milk, or warm it with milk, as may be a- greeable. Serve with toast.—See Porridge. MILK PUNCH.—Take one quart of water, 3 pints of new milk, and b lb. of sugar, or more ; boil slowly 10 minutes; take from the fire, and stir in quickly two or three well beaten eggs, mixed with a pint of cold milk. Add 4 or 5 table- spoonfuls of lemon juice, and a quart of brandy. Run it through a flannel bag. Stir it to a froth, and serve in warm glasses. MILK SOUP.—With cinna- mon boil a quart of milk, two bay leaves, and moist sugar. Put sip- pits in a dish; pour the milk over them; simmer over the fire till the bread is soft; beat up the volks of two eggs with a little milk; Mix all together, and serve. MILK, to preserve.—Milk often turns by an acid developed in the liquid. To prevent it, add to the milk a small portion of bi-carbon- ate of soda. This is not at all inju- rious to health; but rather aids di- gestion. Many of the great dairies on the continent adopt this method.