CON CON 123 pint. Mix, and bottle for use. A teaspoonful thrice a day. Should the bowels be extremely relaxed, take a grain of powdered alum, and a grain of sulphate of iron, as a powder. This has per- formed wonders. Drink much barley-water, taking occasionally five or six drops of the oil of ani- seeds to relieve the cough. Chlo- rodyne also affords much relief to a cough. With regard to climate for the consumptive it is not only as uni- form a climate as can be found that is wanted, but the same means of eradicating the disease as the atient had in his own country, ut where he was prevented by fitful weather from making use of them. Occupation for his mind and body is essential to recovery. His object should be to remain as much as possible in the open air; to enjoy moderate daily exercise for several hours; to partake of a mixed and wholesome nourishing diet; to be refreshed by undis- turbed repose during the night; to cleanse the body by daily ablu- tions ; and to have his mind diver- ted by new and cheerful scenery, from home-longings, and from dwelling too much upon the nature of his malady. Dr. Richardson, in his treatise on pulmonary consumption, says, “ I shall recommend no particular lace as a resort for consumptives, t should be near the sea coast, and sheltered from the northerly winds; the soil should be dry; the drink- ing-water, pure; the mean tem- perature about 60°, with a range of not more than about 10' or 15° on either side. It is not easy to fix any degree of humidity ; but ex- tremes of dryness or of moisture are alike injurious. It is of import- ance, in selecting a locality, that the scenery should bo enticing, so that the patient may be the more encouraged to spend his time out of doors in walking, or riding exer- cise ; and a town where the resi- dences are isolated, and scattered about, and where drainage and cleanliness are attended to, is pre- ferable to one where the houses are densely packed, however small the population. A sea-voyage is sometimes re- commended in incipient consump- tion. This is often followed by a total suspension, or removal of the disease, in cases where it is judici- ously recommended. Short voya- ges are often more injurious than beneficial. To a delicate person going out to India, a voyage round the Cape is of great benefit; but the most serviceable voyage is one to Australia, New Zealand, and back again.... the great advantage is the enjoyment of a perpetual summer, which may be effected by leaving this country about the be- ginning or middle of October, and returning before the cold weather sets in at the antipodes. CONSUMPTION.—One in a deep consumption was advised to drink nothing but water, and eat nothing but water gruel, wi thout salt or sugar. In three months time he was quite well. Take no food but new buttermilk, chur- ned in a bottle, and white bread. I have known this successful.—Or, use as common drink, spring wa- ter and new milk, each a quart, and sugar candy 2 ozs. Or, boil two handfuls of sorrel in a pint of whey, strain it, and drink a glass thrice a day. Or, turn a pint of skimmed milk with half a pint of small beer. Boil in this whey abouttwenty ivy- leaves, and two or three sprigs of hyssop. Drink half over night, the rest in the morning. Do this, if needful, for two months daily.