BUR BUR 85 the burned part, do not remove them, but cut the clothes from around that part. The treatment for burns is applicable to scalds. If the injury is merely superficial, saturate a piece of cotton wool, or wadding, &c. with Tincture of Spanish Flies, largely diluted with water, and apply it over the burn- ed or scalded part, and cover it with folded cotton or linen, &c. to exclude the atmospheric air. Sat- urate with the liniment as the cloth dries. If the wound is deep, use the Arnica Lotion, (See plant Leopard’s Bane,) instead of Can- tharis. When the burning- pain ceases, apply simple cerate spread on a linen rag, and cover well up. Liniments are better than Lotions, as they contain soap dissolved in spirits of wine, both curative of bums, &c. The Arnica Lotion may be obtained from any Homoe- opathic Chemist. When the afore-mentioned lini- ments are not at hand, Cotton Wool, or a linen rag may be well saturated in oil and soap lather, and applied. ‘A most primititve, yet very ef- fectual remedy in the treatment of burns and scalds is cow-dung ; and from its being so rich in phospho- rus, it must exert a specific, and a mechanical action to cure injuries resulting from fire.’ Apply a poultice of Elm Bark and milk, and when the inflamma- tion has left, apply Black Salve. For very slight bums, the Black Salve alone will cure. The Slip- pery Elm poultice is a sovereign remedy, and has cil'ectcd the great- est cures. Dr. Beach relates the case of a girl dreadfully scalded by falling into a largo pan of boil- ing water, which scalded, and ac- tually burnt or disorganized the parts from the back nearly to tlio feet. A poultice of Slippery Elm Bark, and Olive Oil alone, very soon arrested the inflammation and acute suffering's of the patient, to the astonishment of all. The Elm Baric may he bought of the Medical Botanists. In all cases of bums and scalds, it is necessary to observe, that if fever should ensue, gentle laxative medicines ought to be given; as castor oil, or salts and senna. In cases of scalding the mouth with hot liquids, gargle with a so- lution of borax, and then hold in the mouth a mucilage of slippery elm, swallowing it slowly, if the throat also has been scalded; the slippery elm bark may be mixed with olive oil. Some recommend soap liniment, which is made by dissolving soap in spirits. When a burn is only trifling, and causes no blister, it is sufficient to apply a compress of several folds of soft linen upon it, dipped in cold water, in which has been dissolved a little carbonate of soda; to be renewed every 15 minutes, until the pain is removed. Dr. Tissot says, In cases of blis- ters, beat up an egg with two table-spoonfuls of olive oil, or lin- seed oil, spread it on soft linen, and apply it to the affected part. For very slight bums or scalds, the Blade Salve alone is sufficient to remove the pain and inflamma- tion ; page 65. If the skin is not broken, cover the part with a layer of flour or starch, place cotton wool over it, or a linen rag, and bind it over lightly. _ If a blister has been burst or cut, use a cerate. Where the skin has been burnt off, wet applications may bo used ; fire best is lime water and linseed oil; one part of the former to two of the latter, well mixed. Milk may bo used to advantage