TUR 422 TUR TURBOT, Fillets of.—After having skimmed and boned the fish, divide into square pieces the remains of cold turbot and lobster sauce; brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley and seasoning. Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sufficient butter to baste with. Bake for £ hour, and moisten them well with the but- ter. Put a little lemon-juice and grated nutmeg to the cold lobster sauce ; make it hot, and pour over the fish, which must be well drain- ed from the butter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. TURBOT, to boil.—Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil: be very care- ful that there fall no blacks: but skim it well, and preserve the beau- ty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a com- plete fringe of curled parsley, lemon and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy, and plain butter, served plentifully in separ- ate tureens. TURBOT, to fry.—Cut the tur- bot across, as if it were ribbed. Flour it, and put it into a large frying-pan, with lard to cover it, Fry till brown; drain. Clean the pan, and pour into it sherry wine, almost enough to cover it, anchovy, salt, nutmeg, and a little ginger. Stew the fish in it till half the li- quor is wasted. Take out the fish, and put into the pan a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some minced lemon. Simmer till of a proper thickness. Lay in a dish rubbed with shalot. Pour the hot sauce over it, and serve. TURKEY, to carve.—A turkey roasted or boiled is trussed and sent to the table like a fowl, and cut up like a pheasant. The best parts are the white ones, the breast, wings, and neck bones. The neck is taken away, and the hollow part under the breast stuffed with force- meat, which is to be cut into thin slices, from the rump to the neck, and a slice given with each piece of Turkey. TURKEY, to boil. Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pep- per, nutmeg, lemon-peel, a few oysters or anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg: put this into the crop, fasten up the skin and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready oyster-sauce made with but- ter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved, and pour it over the bird; or liver and lemon- sauce. Hen-birds are best for boiling, and should be young. TURKEY, a la Laube. Cut the turkey down the back, just enough to bone it. Stull it with nice forcemeat, made of bread crumbs, and oysters chopped fine, pepper, salt, shalots, thyme, pars-