BRO 80 BRO per round, tlie bottom of the hoop, to keep it from running out, and rub it well with butter. Then put in the cake, and place the sweet- meats in three layers, with some cake between every layer. As soon as it is risen and coloured, cover it with paper and bake it in a moderate oven. Three hours will bake it. BRITANNIA METAL, to clean.—If very dirty, rub them gently with finely powdered Bath brick or rotten stone and water; then with oil and turpentine and whiting; finish off with dry whi- ting. A. N. Some persons only moisten with oil, and polish with fine whiting, or finely powdered rotten stone. BRITISH CHAMPAGNE, to make.—Tako gooseberries before they are ripe, crush them with a mallet in a wooden bowl, and to every gallon of fruit put a gallon of water; let it stand two days, stirring it well; squeeze the mix- ture thoroughly with the hands, through a loop sieve; then mea- sure the liquor, and to every gal- lon put three pounds and a half of loaf sugar; mix it well in the tub, and let it stand one day; put a bottle of the best brandy into the cask, which leave open five or six weeks, taking off the scum as it rises; then make it up, and let it remain one year in the barrel be- fore it is bottled. The proportion of brandy is one pint to seven gallons. Hu. BROCCOLI, to boil.—Peel the thick skin of the stalks, and boil for nearly a quarter of an hour, with a little bit of soda, then put in salt, and boil five minutes more. Broccoli and savoys taste bet- ter when a little bacon is boiled with them. BRONCHIAL TROCHES.— Powdered Extract of Liquorice, 4 ounces; Sugar, 2 ounces; Pow- dered Cubebs, I ounce; Gum Arabic, I ounce; Powdered Hem- lock, 1 drachm. Mix. BRONCHITIS.—This disease is very prevalent in the English climate, and often proves fatal. The acute affection often passes into the chronic form. Bronchitis is derived from the Greek Bronkos, the wind-pipe, and has a reference to the bronchia, the ramifications of the trachea. It is an inflamma- tion of the lining membrane of the passages of the throat, through which respiration is carried on. The first symptoms are running at the nose, eyes watering, fre- quent sneezing, shivering, dulness, and sometimes pain in the head. The chest is affected, there is a roughness of feeling in the trachea, or wind-pipe, which causes fre- quent attempts to clear the throat. The fever runs high, there is great weakness, a troublesome cough, and difficult breathing, hoarseness, tightness and pain across the chest. The cough is soon accompanied with expectora- tion of a thin fluid, having a saline taste, possessing an irritating quality. As the expectoration thickens and increases, the pain begins to abate, and the breathing to be relieved. The pulse is not so violent and the fever abates. These are favourable symptoms; and especially so when the phlegm changes from a glairy liquid to a tenacious phlegm, and decreases in quantity. The unfavourable symptoms are, feeble, frequent, and irregular pul- sation, palid countenance, cold sweats, increased mucous, and the prostration of strength through the cough in efforts to remove it; the cough becomes less effectual to expectorate; wheezing comes on, and next a rattling in the large