STR 408 STR sensation of fulness in the bladder. Give plentiful draughts of warm liquid, as barley-water, infusion of linseed, or of gum arabic, with a little nitre dissolved in it. At the same time, apply warm fomenta- tions to the lower part of the belly, and copious emollient and opiate injections are to be admin- istered ; as gruel, half a pint, sweet oil, 1 oz., and laudanum, 12 drops. STRAWBERRIES. They have many valuable medical pro- perties. They are diaphoretic, diuretic, diluent, cooling, pectoral, of great benefit to the lungs. In fevers, on account of their refrig- erant properties, they are very useful. Persons afflicted with gravel, scurvy, gout, and consump- tion, may be greatly benefited by them. They cure chilblains ; the water is used in France as a wash for that purpose. STRAWBERRIES, to preserve ichole.—Take equal weights of the fruit and refined sugar, lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder over, give a gentle shake to the dish that the sugarmay touch the whole of the fruit; next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of the sugar, and instead of water al- low one pint of red currant juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scar- lets, or others when not dead ripe. STRAWBERRIES, to preserve in wine.—Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three large spoonfuls of fine su- gar ; fill up with Madeira wine or fine sherry. STRAWBERRY SHERBET. —Take 1 lb. of fine strawberries, and crush them in a mortar; add to them 3 pints of water. Pour this into a basin with 2 small lem- ons sliced, and 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, to remain 4 hours. Put 1 j- lb. of loaf sugar into another basin; cover it with a cloth, through which pour the strawberry juice to drain through; gather up the cloth, and press out all the juice. When the sugar is dissolved, strain again. Put it to be iced, or add a wine-glassful of brandy. STRAW BONNETS, to clean. —First brush them with soap and water; then with a solution of oxalic acid. Bleaching.—If they want bleach- ing, proceed thus:—Get a deep box air-tight, if possible; place at the bottom a stone, on the stone a flat piece of iron red hot, or a pan of charcoal, on which scatter powdered brimstone; close the lid, and let the bonnets remain a night. There should be hooks in the box, on which to hang the bonnets. STRICTURE op the REC- TUM.—It often proceeds from costiveness, and hardened fceees, which lacerate the parts in passing down the rectum; also by drastic purges, piles, &c. The rectum be- comes partially or nearly closed by tumours or scirrhus, which renders evacuation very painful, except the fceces are in a very liquid state. Treatment.—Eat chiefly bread made of unsifted flour; and small doses, twice or thrice a day, of the best’furkey rhubarb and magnesia; this aperient has no injurious ef- fect ; the same may be said of cas- tor oil; they do not tend to consti- pation after promoting evacuation. The rectum may be dilated b$ the half of a small tallow candle, dipped in sweet oil; or by means of a bougie, sold by chemists. They should be inserted from 10 to 20 minutes. Occasionally take an in-