ROS 362 ROU together, and pour into small tin hoops, any shape you like. Or, pour it upon buttered paper in a tin, and dry in the oven. While rather soft, cut into shapes. ROSE LOTION for the eyes. —Yitriolated zinc, 16 grains; dis- tilled vinegar, 2 drachms; rose water, 14 drachms; make into a wash for the eyes, and apply fre- quently with a rag. When the eyelids are tumified, this performs a cure. Even rose water alone strengthens the eyes, and its smell is fragrant and reviving. ROSE LEAVES, to preserve.— Gather them when dry; press them into a jar well sprinkled with brandy for future use. Some pack them with common salt only. J[u. ROSE LOZENGES. Boil gently 2 lbs. of sugar in a cupful of water until it begins to candy, or till it is blown; take off, and add 2 ozs. of gum arabic dissolved; then add 15 drops of the oil or otto of roses; roll out, and make into lozenges. Colour as you please. A little powdered starch, or olive oil, scented, will prevent them from sticking. Dry well. Gu. ROSE WATER.-Damask Rose leaves, 6 lhs.; water sufficient to prevent burning; distil off a gal- lon. These leaves retain their odour if preserved as above directed ROSEMARY.—See Robinson's Herbal. The Spirit of Rosemary is a good external application for strains and bruises. It is said to have cured a queen of Hungary of a paralytic affection. For head- ache, 4 drops of the oil are given in a dessert-spoonful of the spirit in a glass of water. It is good for hysterics. ROSEMARY, to cultivate.—It is propagated by slips or cuttings in the spring, in a bed of light earth. When they are rooted, transplant them. The best season is in August; if they are planted later, they seldom live through winter, therefore if not transplant- ed at this time, they should be left till the following March, which is a very good time for removing them; if the season be showery, they take root immediately. Hu. ROSEMARY POMATUM.— Melt equal parts of beef marrow, spermaceti, and olive oil. When nearly cool, add 15 drops of oil of rosemary. If not stiff enough, add alittle white wax, or beef suet. Gu. ROUGE.—Make a decoction of best Brazil wood, powdered, and best vinegar. Boil half an hour; strain, and replace on the fire. Dissolve { lb. of alum, in a pint of best vinegar. Mix the two liquids and stir well with a wooden spa- tula. The scum which arises, on being carefully taken off, and grad- ually dried, will make a beautiful and harmless rouge, or carmine. ROUGE ET NOIR, Game of.—This game is much in vogue on the continent. It takes its name of red and black, not from the cards, but from the colours marked on the green cloth with which the table is covered. All the terms used in this game are French; nevertheless to be better understood by the general reader, we shall give them in Eng- lish as well. The game is played in the fol- lowing manner:— The tailleur and croupier sit op- posite to each other, at each side of the table, with a basket, for the purpose of receiving the cards of every coup after dealing, placed on the middle of the table, just be- tween them. The tailleur then asses round six packs of cards, to e shuffled, and mixed confusedly together by all the company. He then shuffles them himself, putting all the end cards into vari-