COE, 125 COR galls, 2 lbs.; sulphate of iron, 8 ozs.; guru, 6 ozs.; logwood, 6 ozs.; sugar, 4 ozs.; vinegar, 2 quarts; water, 1§ gallon. Stir often for a fortnight. A few drops of oil of cloves will prevent mould. Another.—Add J oz. of gum arabic, and 1 oz. of fine brown su- gar, to every pint of good black ink. COPYING PAPER, Black— Mix well and stiff, lamp black and lard, or butter. Spread evenly over fine printing paper with a soft brush or flannel. Dry in a warm room. It is used for trans- ferring drawings, &c., or for mul- tiplying copies.—Place a sheet of white paper upon it; place the pattern upon it to be copied, and trace with a style. CORNS.—When small, they may be removed by stimulants or escharotics; as nitrate of silver, (lunar caustic,) by wetting the corn, and touching it with a pencil of the caustic every evening; pre- viously soften the skin by immer- sing the feet in warm water.—Or apply a blister the size of a sixpence. —Or the following remedies:— 1. Apply fresh every morning, the yeast of small beer spread on a rag.—Or, after paring them close, apply bruised ivy-leaves daily, and in fifteen days they will drop out. ■ Or, apply chalk powdered and mixed with water This also cures warts. Some corns are cured by a pitch plaster. All are greatly eased by steeping the feet in hot water wherein oatmeal is boiled. This also helps dry and hot feet. Wesley. 2. Four ounces of white diachlyon laster, four ounces of shoe-ma- er’s wax, and fifty drops of mu- riatic acid, or spirits of salt. Boil these ingredients for a few minutes in an earthen pipkin, and when cold, roll the mass out between the hands, or upon a marble slab, slightly moistened with olive oil. 3. Rub together in a mortar, 2 ozs. of powdered savine leaves; % oz. of verdigris, and § oz. of red precipitate. Mix, and put some of it in a linen bag; apply to the corn at bed-time. 4. Some people roast a clove of garlic, and fasten it on with a piece of cloth at the time of going to bed. It softens the corns, and removes the core in two or three nights’ using. When the garlic is taken off, wash the foot with warm water; in a little time the indurated skin that forms the hor- ney tunic of the com will disap- pear. Avoid tight shoes, boots, and stockings, to be devoid of corns. 5. Bathe the feet for twenty or thirty minutes in strong soda wa- ter and soft soap. After repeating a few times, the com may be easily drawn out.—If the corn be soft, apply a rag dipped in turpentine. —Corns should never be cut with- out being softened in warm water and soap. 6. Sir Astly Cooper gives the following receipe as an infallible cure:—Gum Ammonia, 2 ozs.; yellow wax, 2 ozs.; verdigris, 6 drachms. Melt them together, and spread the composition on a piece of soft leather, or linen ; cut away as much of the corn as you can with a knife, before you apply the plaster; renew in a fortnight, if the com is not gone. 7. A hard corn should be soak- ed night and morning in hot water, and scraped. Tincture of Iodine, laid on with a camel’s hair brush twice a day will remove a hard corn. For a soft corn, the solution of potass should be well rubbed in. 8. Tincture of Iodine, 4 drachms; Iodide of iron, 12 grains; chloride