COU COU 128 This is very useful in the coughs of children, as it has a very pleas- ant taste. Dose, one or two tea- spoonfuls. 16. Or, peel and slice a large turnip, spread coarse sugar be- tween the slices, and let it stand in a dish till all the juice drains down. Take a spoonful of this when you cough. 17. Or, take a spoonful of syrup of horehound morning and even- ing. 18. Or, take from ten to twenty drops of elixir of vitriol, in a glass of water, twice or thrice a-day. This is useful when the cough is attended with costiveness, or a re- laxation of the stomach and lungs. 19. For a tickling Cough, drink water whitened with oatmeal four times a-day. Or, keep a piece of barley-sugar or sugar-candy constantly in the mouth. COUGH DROPS.—Gum Gui- acum, 2 drachms; Camphor, 2 scruples ; Castile, Soap, 1 scruple ; Laudanum, 40 drops: Spirits of Wine, 2 ounces; Balsam, of Peru, 24 drops. Mix. Dose—10 or 15 drops three or four times a day. COUGH DROPS. Linseed half a cupful; olive oil, half a pint; treacle or honey, half a pint; spirits of turpentine, balsam of fir, J oz. each ; extract of liquo- ice, J oz. Mix and simmer. Take from 10 to 20 drops two or three times a day. COUGH LOZENGES.—Best Spanish Liquorice, one ounce; refined sugar, 2 ounces; gum ara- hic finely powdered, 2 drachms; and extract of opium, 1 scruple. Well beat, or pound the whole to- gether; then with mucilage of gum tragacanth, make into small lozen- ges, to be dissolved in the mouth when the cough is troublesome. COUGH LOZENGES.—Lau- danum, 1 ounce; balsam of tolu, one ounce and a half; liquor- ice, three and a half ounces; ipe- cacuanha powder, two ounces ; oil of aniseeds, half an ounce; starch, one pound; sugar, three pounds; mucilage to mix. COUGH, For.—Lobelia, 2 oz.; Cayenne, \ oz.; Vinegar 1 pint; Sugar, 2 ozs.: Boil the vinegar, and pour it hot upon the herb, &c. into a stone bottle; cork close for a few days. Dose for a cough, half a tea-spoonful, or a piece of loaf sugar moistened with it Or take of Lobelia, 2 drachms; Blood root, 1 drachm ; Skunk Cab- bage, 1 drachm; Pleurisy root, 1 drachm. Make into pills with treacle, honey, or Balsam of Peru. Dose, one or two, twice a day. COUGH PILL.—Extract of Henbane, f ounce; Ipecacuanha, £ ounce; Extract of Balm of Gilead Buds, | ounce; Cayenne, 2 grains; Oil of Mint, 3 drops. Form into pills. Take one or two when need- ful. In bronchitis, catarrh, &c., these pills are invaluable for Cough. COUGH PLASTER.—Castile Soap, 1 ounce; Lead Plaster, 2 drachms; Powdered Sal Ammo- niac, | drachm. Mix the soap and lead plaster together, and when the mass has cooled, add the sal ammoniac, and 1 drachm of Cay- enne pepper. COUGH, PLASTER FOR.— Bees wax, Burgundy-pitch, and Rosin, of each an ounce, melt them together, and stir in three quarters of an ounce of common Turpentine, and half an ounce of oil of mace. Spread it on leather, grate some nutmeg over, and apply quite warm to the pit of the stomach. COUGH SYRUP. — Hyssop and Rue, of each 1 ounce; Hore- hound, 1 ounce; Acid Tincture of Lobelia, 3 ounces; Essence of