SAtJ SAY 372 butter, or a bit of butter rolled in flour; add a little port wine, and open tbe pie, and put it in. It will serve for lamb, mutton, veal, or beef pies. SAUCE for a Turkey.—Open some oysters into a basin, and wash them in their own liquor; save the liquor, and as soon as settled, pour into a saucepan ; add a little white gravy, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle; thicken with flour and butter; boil it three or four minutes ; add a spoonful of thick cream, and then the oysters; shake them over the fire till they are hot, but do not let them boil. SAUCE for Wild Sim- mer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so if liked. SAUSAGES, to eat cold.—Sea- son fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, pepper, and all- spice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat; the third day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalot, or garlic, sage very fine; a little bread, if you like. Fill prepared skins or gut with this stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang to smoke, like hams; but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be highly dried. Some eat it without boil- ing; but it is best boiled. Tie the skin in different places; each link to be about 8 or 9 inches long. SAUSAGES, Francois, smoked. Mince what quantity of fresh pork will be necessary; mix with it equal to a quarter of lard, salt, and fine spice? ; fill the puddings and tie them ; hang them in the smoke for three days; then cook them in broth or soup for three hours, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, parsley, and young onions; when cold, servo upon a napkin. SAUSAGE ROLLS. Take nice pork chops, more lean than fat, but free from gristle ; chop it very fine, and season it well with pepper, salt, and spices, sage, or basil; use a little water, or beer,! or port wine, in chopping the meat; or a little soaked bread. Roll out some paste in square pieces, lay a roll of meat in the centre length- j ways; fold them so as to forml long puffs, aud wash them with egg before they are baked. SAUSAGES, Spadbanfs Ox- ford.—Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared! of skin and sinews; and three! quarters of a pound of beef suet;! mince and mix them; steep the ' crumb of a penny loaf in water,! and mix it with the meat, with al- so a little dried sage, pepper, and . salt. SAYINE OINTMENT.-Take fresh savine leaves, bruised, § lb.; pure lard, 2 lbs.; yellow wax, h lb. Boil the leaves in the lard un- til they are crisp; press through a filter; add the wax to the filter- ed lard, and melt them togetl This is an excellent issue ointmenl being, in many respects, peferabl to that of cantharides. It is mix- ed with equal parts of blistei ointment in order to keep up a discharge. SAVOURY JELLY.—Spread some slices of lean veal and haul on the bottom of a stew-pan, with a carrot or turnip, or two or three onions; cover it, and let it simniei on a slow fire till it is sufficient!! brown; put to it a quart of goot broth, whole pepper, mace, a von little isinglass, and salt to you taste; boil ten minutes; strain tin