183 GOU GOU comes a nice paste; add a little salt. Line a buttered basin with the paste, and let it be three parts full of gooseberries ; fill up with fine sugar, and cover with paste. Bake 1| hour. Sauce, melted butter, sweetened, or with fresh cream. A. K GOOSEBERRY OR APPLE TRIFLE.-Scald as many of either of these fruits, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine; add to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint each of milk and cream, and the yolk of one egg; give it a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time; do not let it boil; add a little sugar, and cool. Lay it over the apples with a spoon; and then put on a whip made the day before, as for other Trifles. GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. —Bright yellow English Goose- berries, ripe, 1 quart; stamp them small; water, 3 quarts; stir well together, and let them stand 48 hours; strain, and add 1| lb. of sugar. Let it remain in the cask for 9 or 10 months. GOOSEBERRY AND CUR- RANT WINE.—Six gallons of cold soft water; four gallons of gooseberries; four gallons of cur- rants; ferment; mix raw sugar, 13 lbs.; honey, 2 lbs.; citric acid, 1 oz. Brandy, 6 pints. This will make 12 gallons. Another.—Water, 5| gallons; gooseberries and currants, 4 gals.; ferment; sugar, 13 lbs.; tartar, in fine powder, 1 oz.; ginger, do. 3 ozs.; sweet marjoram, half a hand- ful. Brandy, 1 quart, or more. Will make nine gallons. GOUT.—Supposed to be a dis- ease of the blood. It is generally produced by luxurious living, beer and wine drinking, and the want of exercise; also by too free a use of animal food, and intoxicating drinks. These cause deficient se- cretionary action, deficient perspi- ration and urine, so as to corrupt the blood with uric acid and other matter, which should have been ejected from the body, but which are thrown upon some debilitated part of the body, causing inflam- mation and great pain. Gouty inflammation does not terminate in suppuration or gangrene, but by an effusion of chalky liquid de- posited at the joints, causing a stiffness of them; the deposit is called chalk-stones. A fit of the gout attacks sud- denly, without warning, generally in the night; often with a severe pain in the ball of the great toe, the heel, or perhaps the whole foot. The inflammation may also attack the knee, hand, wrist, elbow, &c., or change from one joint to another. It is attended with a quick pulse, fever, hot skin, con- fined state of the bowels, urine high colour, with dense deposits. Hard malt liquor tends to produce uric acid, even in spite of regular exertions and labour. Treatment.—First restore the deficient secretions, and cleanse the stomach and bowels. If there be much fever, nausea, &c., give an emetic, say 15 grains of ipecacu- anha powder. Give purgatives; as small doses of rhubarb, about 10 grains, and bicarbonate of po- tash, 15 grains. The following are very useful internal remedies: Infusion of gentian, 3 ozs.; tinc- ture of columba, 2h drachms; liquor potassa, 25 drops. Mix; and take in four doses, two per day. Or, Dissolve l oz. of gum guiacum in a pint of the best French Brandy; infuse a day, then add half a pint