155 EME EPI trils should then be set free, and a moderate pressure made with the hand upon the chest. Repeat this process till life appears. VI. Electricity to be employed early by a medical assistant. VII. Inject into the stomach, by means of an elastic tube and syringe, half a pint of warm brandy, or wine and water. VIII. Apply sal-volatile to the nostrils. If apparently dead from in- tense cold.—Rub the body with ice, snow, or cold water.—Restore warmth by slow degrees; and, after some time, if necessary, employ the means recommended for the appa- rently drowned. It is highly dangerous to apply heat too early. If apparently dead from hanging. — In addition to the means recommended for the appa- rently drowned, bleeding should early be employed by a Medical Assistant. If apparently dead from Noxous Vapours, Lightning, <Jc.—1. Remove the body into a cool fresh air. 2. Dash cold water on the neck, face, and breast fre- quently. 3. If the body be cold, apply warmth, as recommended for the apparently drowned. 4. Use the means for inflating the lungs in Direction V. 5. Let Electricity (particularly in accidents from lightning) be early employed by a Medical Assistant. If apparently dead from Intoxication.—Lay the body on a bed, with the head raised: re- move the neckcloth and loosen the clothes. Obtain instantly medical assistance ; in the mean time apply cloths soaked in cold water to the head, and bottles of hot water, or hot bricks, to the calves of the legs and to the feet. General Observations.—On restoration to life, a teaspoonful of warm water should be given; and then, if the power of swallowing be returned, small quantities of weak brandy and water, warm; the pa- tient should be kept in bed, and a disposition to sleep encouraged, ex- cept in cases of apoplexy and in- toxication. Great care is requisite to maintain the restored vital actions, and to prevent undue excitement. The treatment is to be persevered in for three or four hours. It is an erroneous opinion that persons are irrecoverable be- cause life does not soon make its appearance. EMETIC MIXTURE.—Ipe- cacuanha wine, | oz.; water, 1 oz.; simple syrup, I oz. Mix.—For a child, 20 drops, or more, every quarter of an hour until vomiting ensues. An adult may take from half to one oz. EMETIC POWDER.—Ipeca- cuanha and Lobelia, of each 2 ozs.; Blood-root 1 oz. Powder, and mix well. Take half a teaspoonful every twenty minutes till it op- erates. EMMENAGOGUES. — Medi- cines exciting the womb to secre- tion of the menses. ENGRAVINGS, to TRANS- FER TO PAPER.—Place the engravings a few seconds over the vapour of iodine. Dip a slip of white paper in a weak solution of starch, and, when dry, in a weak solution of oil of vitriol. When again dry, lay a slip upon the en- graving, and place both for a few minutes under the press. The' engraving will thus be reproduced in all its delicacy and finish. The iodine has the property of fixing the black parts of the ink upon the engraving, and not on the whito. This important discovery is yet in its infancy. EPILEPSY, or Falling sick- ness.—A sudden deprivation of