CON CON 120 or one or two of the following :— Powdered aloes, jalap, gamboge, colocyntli, extract of gentian, man- drake, cayenne pepper, of each, \ oz.; castile soap, j- oz.; oil of peppermint, £ drachm. Mix well, and form into pills. It purges without griping and weakening. Dose:—two or three pills. Beach. Sulphur is a good remedy, es- pecially when there is a tendency to piles. If there is a deficiency of bile, take Blood-root (which see,) with a little powdered dande- lion root. The flesh brush, cold sponging, and the shower-bath, are excellent remedies CONSTIPATION OR COS- TIVENESS.—Professor Phoebus, of Giessen, refers habitual costive- ness to the following causes:— 1. The too spare use of articles of diet which promote the action of the bowels. Water is placed first. It is taken by many in in- sufficient quantity. In sedentary occupations the sensation of thirst is too seldom excited, and the habitual frequency of such sensa- tion may be diminished if the satisfastion of the call be neglec- ted. To this class of aliments be- long fruits, salads, sour milk, ho- ney, and fat. Many country people, who sell all their produce, eat little of these things, and the poorer inhabitants of towns get them in insufficient quantity. Those persons who can procure them, eat salads and fats in too small quantities. 2. Too little bodily exercise. 3. Want of ex- ercise of the powers of the large intestine. This is the most influ- ential of all the causes. It is an error to suppose that the power of the will extends only over the sphincter; for it prevails much higher, only it requires more time for its exertion. Several minutes, or a quarter of an hour, may be re- quired to initiate the evacuatory movement. By exercising it, we increase the disposition of the in- testine to act, but this is rarely the case in less than five minutes. Numerous remedies have been recommended for constipation; but the action of medicinal sub- stances in so chronic an affection may become prejudicial, especially such as exert a chemical action, as salts or drastics. If a stool is desired, the patient must earnestly practice the necessary gymnastic, which consists in alternate move- ments of the rectum as during actual evacuation, and in rapidly drawing in and then expanding the abdominal muscles. Such movements may be commenced in the chamber and completed in the closet, several minutes, a quarter of an hour, or even more, being required. If evacuation has com- menced, but has not proved pro- ductive enough, the movements must be continued, the person re- solving not to quit the closet until the aim has been attained. The movements are the same as those normally employed; but they are more rapid, and continued for a longer time. Kneading and rub- bing the abdomen, may be useful, but they are unnecessary; and may be reserved for those not able to follow the above directions, such as children, &c. An adult should compel a stool every day. In from four to eight weeks a complete mastery may be acquired over the intestine, so that a stool may be always secured once in the twenty-four hours. This powerful agency acts moreefficient- ly when conjoined with articles of diet favourable to an open state of the bowels. A large quantity of water will be more easily drank if at first carbonic acid gas be added. An adult, during winter, should