419 TOO TOO TONIC BITTERS.—See page 61. The following herbs are for tonic bitters. They may be in- fused or decocted. They increase the tone or contractility of all the muscular fibre, and thereby strengthen the whole body. They drive away fever, increase the ap- petite, expel worms, &c.— White Poplar bark, Golden Seal, Gum Myrrh, Tansy, Dandelion Root, Balmony, Sops, Centaury, Bog- bean, Gentian, Barberry Bark, Columba, Unicorn Root, Worm- wood, Quassia, Camomile Flowers. TONIC PILL.—Extract of gen- tian, 2 scruples ; sulphate of iron, 16 grains; sulphate of quinine, -10 grains. Mix, and form into pills. Take one pill three times a day. TONIC TINCTURE.—Peru- vian bark, bruised, 1| oz.; orange peel, bruised, 1 oz.; brandy, or proof spirit, 1 pint. Infuse ten days ; shake the bottle every day. Pour off the liquor, and strain. I Take a tea-spoonful in a wine- glassful of water twice a day, when you feel languid. TOOTHACHE REMEDIES. —The following are good:— II. Oil of cloves, | drachm; laudanum, 2 drachms; powdered alum, 1 drachm; spirits of nitre, 2 i drachms; chloroform, £ drachm. Mix. Apply with lint. _ 2. A mixture of two parts of the liquid ammonia of commerce, with one of some simple tincture, (tinc- ture of Benjamin, &c.) is a good remedy for toothache. A piece of lint dropped into this mixture and introduced into the carious tooth, when the nerve is immediately cauterised, and the pain stopped. 3. Saturate a little cotton wool I with oil of cloves, and put it to the If tooth.—The oil of cloves might be ■ kept ready in a bottle. It would a be more efficacious if mixed with camphor, and two or three drops of chloroform. Or creosote, one part; spirits of wine, ten parts ; mix, and apply. 4. Sometimes diluted ammonia relieves the toothache. Also a mixture of camphor, laudanum, oil of cloves, and chloroform. Mix well.—Or keep in the mouth warm water and salt, with one-fourth of laudanum. 5. Take of alum, in powder, two drachms; spirits of nitre, seven drachms. Mix, and apply it to the teeth. 6. Take 3 spoonfuls of brandy, adding to it 1 drachm of camphor, with 30 or 40 drops of laudanum. Drop a little on some lint. Apply it to the affected tooth and gum. A little tincture of cayenne would be an improvement. 7. Be electrified through the teeth. Or apply to the aching tooth an artificial magnet. Or lay roasted parings of turnips, as hot as may be, behind the ear. Or, lay a clove of garlic on the tooth. Or keep the feet in warm water, and rub them well with bran just before bed time. 8. Alum reduced to an impalpa- ble powder, three drachms ; ni- trous spirit of ether, 1 scruple; mix; and apply to the tooth. Or, take of compound tincture of Benjamin, and Battley’s solution of opium, of each, one drachm. Mix. A little dropped on cotton, and applied to the hollow, and the gum of a decayed tooth, will afford effectual relief. 9. Take of tincture of cayenne, oil of cloves, and oil of summer savory, equal parts; put into three table-spoonfuls of spirit of wine. Add six drops of chloroform. Ap- ply to the affected tooth and gums. Apply to the face at the same time a flannel bag of hops and camomile flowers saturated with hot vine- gar, and thirty drops of laudanum,