BEE BEE 52 meat is to be in slices, and yon may add a spoonful of walnut-liquor or ketchup. Observe, that it is owing: to boil- ing hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be oniy simmered; and this last only hot through. BEEF, Hunters'.—To around of beef that weighs twenty-five pounds, take three ounces of salt- petre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nut- meg, half an ounce of allspice, three handfuls of common salt, all in the finest powder. The beef should hang two or three days; then rub the above well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. The bone must be taken out at first. When to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. When cold, take off the paste and tape. The gravy is very fine ; and a little of it adds greatly to the fla- vour of any hash, soup, &c. Both the gravy and beef will keep some time. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to prevent waste. BEEF, to keep.—The kernels should be removed from the neck pieces. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should do it, and then rub the salt well into such beef as is designed for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. BEEF, to mince.—Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put it into a small stew- pan, with some onion or shalot, (a very little will do,) a little water, pepper, salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Don’t let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it: if shalot-vine- gar is used, there will be no need of the onion, nor the Taw shalot. BEEF, to mince.—Shred the meat fine, and boil with onion, or shalot, pepper, &c.; add a little of its gravy, or some butter. Gar- nish with toast. A. N. BEEF-OLIVES, or to dress meat that has not been done enough. —Cut slices lialf-an-inch thick, and four inches square; lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, sh dot, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll them, and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stew-pan with some gravy made of the beef-bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoon- ful or two of water and stew them till tender, Fresh meat will do. BEEF OR PORK to salt for immediate use.—The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into a pot; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. BEEF-PALATES. — Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; then cut the pa- lates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose; and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was