66 BLA BLA lution is effected, add half a drachm of Yellow Chromate of Potash, and let the whole be well stirred. BLADDER, Inflammation of. It manifests itself by pain and tightness in the lower part of the abdomen; the pain increases by pressure, there is a constant desire to pass urine, and great difficulty in passing a few drops; sometimes there is complete retention; the bladder may become enlarged, caused by the inflammatory action. In old people the chronic form oc- curs, and it is frequently caused by stone. In the decline of life, the common symptom is the diffi- culty of making water. In painful retention of urine, hot fomentations of herbs, as hops, wormwood, tansy, camomile flow- ers, and a little valerian root, may be applied over the region of the bladder. Use also the warm foot- bath. Parsley tea with a little spirits of nitre and best gin may be taken. Take also the Diuretic Infusion, which see. Should these fail, use the hip-bath, temperature from 86 to 96, for half an hour; take also a tablespoonful of castor oil, and, if the pain is severe, twelve drops of laudanum. Warm injections are also serviceable. Add to the injections a little Tincture of Lobelia. The following is an excellent remedy in affections of the bladder, particularly in old age:— Solidified Copaiaba, Alcoholic Extract of Cubebs, equal parts. Mix and make into three or four grain pills, and give one or two three times a day. It has been known to act like a charm. It is invaluable in all urinary affections, and especially those which affect old people. It allays pain and ir- ritation about the neck of the blad- der, of the prostrate gland, and in thekiclneys. In case of extreme pain apply the Irritating Plaster (which see) over the pubic region. To strengthen the bladder, avoid all intoxicating drinks, exposure to wet, damp, and cold ; sponge the lower parts of the abdomen with salt and water, and occasion- with vinegar. See Urine, or Urinary. BLANC-MANGE, A RICH. —Simmer an ounce and a quarter of fine isinglass in a pint and a half of new milk ; add the rind of half a lemon, shred very fine, two blades of mace, a stick of cinna- mon, and sweeten to taste with loaf-sugar. Blanch and pound with a spoonful of rose-water, half an ounce of sweet almonds, eight or ten bitter; put them to the milk, and mix. When the isin- glass is dissolved, strain through a new flannel, to half a pint of rich cream, and stir well. When it has stood an hour, pour it off into another basin, leaving the sedi- ments at the bottom, and when nearly cold, pour it into moulds, jelly glasses, or custard cups. Two tablespoonfuls of noyeau will an- swer the purpose of the almonds. And the isinglass may be dissolved in a pint of water and half a pint of milk. Another wav.—Put one ounce and a half of isinglass into a basin, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk; cover it over with a plate, and let it stand till the next day; put it into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon, a bit of cinnamon, and a little loaf sugar ; let it boil till the isinglass is dissolved, then add to it some orange flour and rose- water, and a little Sherry wine; strain and cool a, little, wet the moulds in cold water, and pour it into them. Sweet and bitter al- monds blanched, and beat in a mor- tar with a little rose-water, may be added, if agreeable.