PUN 335 PUN to be distinguished by a comma: as, “Tho’ deep, yet clear ; tho’ gentle, yet not dull; Strong, without rage ; without o’er- flowing, full.” “ Good men, in this frail im- imperfect state, are often found, not only in union ivith, but in op- position to, the views and conduct of one another.” Rule 9. The words of another ■writer cited, but not formally in- troduced as a quotation, are sepa- rated by a comma; as. “ I pity the man who can travel from Dan to Beersheba, and cry, ’Tis all bar- ren.” Rule 10. A comma is often in- serted where a verb is understood; as, George has acquired much property; his brother, little. Rule 11. A comma is used be- tween the two parts of a sentence that has its natural order inverted; as, Him that is weak in the faith, receive ye. The Semicolon is written thus (;). It marks a longer pause than the comma, and separates clauses less closely connected. Rule 1. A sentence consisting of two parts, the one containing a complete proposition, and the other added as an inference, or an expla- nation, the two parts are sepa- rated by a semicolon ; as, My mind is sadly dejected; for I am sur- rounded with enemies. Rule 2. A sentence consisting of several members, each consti- tuting a distinct proposition, and having a dependence upon each other,or upon some common clause, they are separated by semicolons; as, Remember, weeping may en- dure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning; and to all true Christians, it shall be a morning without clouds; for the Lord shall be their everlasting light; and the days of their mourning shall be ended. The Colon, which is written thus (: ) marks a longer pause than the semicolon, and is used when the sense is complete, but when there is something still be- hind, which tends to make the sense fuller or clearer. Rule 1. A colon generally pre- cedes a quotation ; as, The Scrip- tures show the benevolence of the Deity in the words: “God is love.” Rule 2. When a sentence which consists of an enumeration of partic- ulars, each separated from the other by a semicolon, has its sense sus- pended till the last clause, *that clause is disjoined from the prece- ding by a colon; as, “ If he has not been unfaithful to his king; if he has not proved a traitor to his country; if he has never given cause for such charges as have been preferred against him : why then is he afraid to confront his accusers ?” The Period, or full point, is a dot thus ( .), and is used at the end of every complete sentence; that to is say, at the end of eveiy collec- tion of words which makes a full and complete meaning, and is not necessarily connected with other collections of words. Besides being used to mark the completion of a sentence, the period is placed after initials, when used alone, as D. D., for Doctor of Di- vinity ; and after abreviations, as, Lat. for Latin. The following Grammatical signs, or marks, are used in the writing of sentences:— Parenthesis () is used to enclose a phrase to assist in elucidating the subject, or to add force to the assertions or arguments ; as, “ Know then this truth (enough for man to know), Virtue alone is happiness below.”