446 WHI WHI on your back. Take eight grains of jalap every eight days. This usually cures in five weeks. Or, make Venice turpentine, flop, and fine sugar, equal quan- tities, into small pills. Take three or four of these morning and even- ing. This also cures most pains in the back. Or, take yellow resin, powdered, 1 oz.; conserve of roses, i oz.; powdered rhubarb, 3 drms.; syrup, a sufficient quantity to make an electuary. Take a large tea- spoonful of this twice a day, in a cup of comfrey-root tea. WHITE SWELLING.—This is a very painful disease; it more frequently affects the knee than any other joint; sometimes the hip, ancle, and elbow. At first a severe pain is felt penetrating the joint, or only one particular part of the j oint. The least motion ag- gravates the pain. It soon begins to swell considerably, and suppur- ation takes place. Matter is dis- charged from several openings or ulcers, the bones are affected; and if the disease is not arrested, the life of the patient is endangered. Treatment. Avoid the old sys- tem of treatment by the allopathic doctors, by mercury, blistering, setons, amputation, &c. Attend to the stomach and bowels, giving an emetic, and an aperient, if needed; to be followed by bitter tonics occasionally, giving the al- terative syrup, (see Addenda) diluted when first taken; or a de- coction of sarsaparilla, sassafras, guiacum, queen’s delight, unicorn root, cleavers, prickly ash berries, of each 1 oz. Simmer in a covered pan with twe quarts of water down to three pints. Sweeten. A des- sert spoonful three or four times a day. Steam the part with bitter herbs, and now and then give the Vapour Bath to the whole body. After steaming the affected part, rub the limb with tho Hheumatic Liquid. Dr. Beach recommends the fol- lowing;—“ Oil of hemlock; oil of sassafras, gum camphor, tincture of opium, | oz. each, and a pint of spirit of wine. When dissolved and properly mixed, bathe the part with it frequently.”—Then apply an oatmeal and bran poul- tice, mixed with a little finely pow- dered charcoal, salt and cayenne pepper. If the pain is great, sprinkle on the poultice, £ oz. of laudanum. Keep it on as long as possible, and then steam. WHITE SWELLING.—The pain arising from white swellings, and other similar swellings, may be instantly eased thus:—Take the white of an egg, and beat it up with two table-spoonfuls of spring water; rub the part affect- ed frequently, but gently with the finger. WHITE SWELLINGS. Hold the part half an hour every morning under a pump or cock. This cures all pains in the joints. It seldoom fails.—Tried. Or, pour on it daily a stream of warm water. Or, a stream of cold wa- ter one day, and warm the next, and so on by turns. Use these remedies at first, if possible. It is likewise proper to intermix gentle purges to prevent a relapse. Or, boiled nettles.— Wesley. WHITINGS, to choose.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings; their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. WHITINGS, to fry.—Wash and gut; skin them, and turn their tails into their mouths, to lie round. Season with salt and pepper; steep them in vinegar; Hour them, and dip them in but ter ; then fry them