CIN coc 113 Another.—Flour, suet, currants, raisins, of each 1 lb.; nine eggs; 2 ozs. of candied peel; almonds and spices, according to taste. Boil in a cloth sis or seven hours. CIDER CUP.—Grate nutmeg and ginger; put it in a cup with a well-browned toast; on these pour two glasses of sherry, or one glass of pale brandy; then add cider. A few fresh borage leaves add to the refreshing appearance of the cup. CINNAMON.—This valuable spice comes chiefly from Ceylon. It is a most useful aromatic Its effects are stimulating, carmin- ative, tonic, and warming ; but it is used rather as an adjunct to other remedies than as a remedy itself. The oil is a most powerful stimulant, and is used in cramps of the stomach, and in syncope, or in paralysis of the tongue. CINNAMON CORDIAL. Take 8 lbs. of cinnamon, broken; 17 gals, of rectified spirit, and 2 gals, of water. Digest in the still 24 hours by a gentle heat; draw 16 gallons by a stronger heat. Hu. CINNAMON CAKE.—Put 6 eggs, and 3 table-spoonfuls of rose- water into a pan; whisk well to- gether ; add 1 lb. of fine sugar, a large spoonful of ground cinnamon, and flour to make it into paste; roll, form, and bake on white pa- per. CINNAMON SOAP.—Good tallow soap, 10 lbs; palm-oil soap, 7 lbs; essence of cinnamon, 3 ozs.; essence of sassafras, \ oz.; berga- mot, ^ oz.; colour, 4 ozs. of yellow ochre. CINNAMON WATER.—Take of cinnamon bark, one pound; proof spirit and common water, of each one gallon. Steep the cinna- mon in the liquor for two days, then distil off one gallon. Or, Cinnamon, 2 ozs. in 3 qrts. of brandy, with a quart of water, the rind of two lemons, and 2 or 3 ozs. of liquorice root; infuse five days, distil, and add 2 lbs. of line sugar, and 3 pints of water. 6 CISTERNS, to measure. Multiply the diameter of the bot- tom in inches by the diameter of the top; then multiply that pro- duct by the height in inches, and that product by 7, 854; divide the last obtained number by 231, cut off four figures at the right hand, and the quotient will be the answer in gallons. CITRIC ACID. —It is cool- ing, allays inflammation, and is a substitute for lemon juice; in fact, it is the same. CLARIFIED SUGAR.—Put 2 lbs. of finest sugar into a tinned stewpan with a pint of cold spring water to dissolve. Beat half the white of an egg; put it to the sugar, and stir; put on the fire, and boil gently till no scum rises, and it is perfectly clear; strain through a cloth, and closely bottle. CLEAVERS.—The American plant is the best. It is a good di- uretic, perhaps one of the best for curing all suppressions of urine, and gravelly complaints, scurvy, and spitting of blood. Infuse 2 ounces in a pint of cold water, and drink a wine-glassful occasionally. See Robinson’s Family Herbal. CLOTH, to Raise the Nap on.— When woollens are worn thread- bare the part of the dress must be soaked in cold water for half an hour, then put on a board, and the threadbare parts rubbed with a half-worn hatter’s “card” filled with flocks, or with a prickly this- tle, until a sufficient nap be raised. If faded, apply the Blade Reviver, which see. Then hang the coat to dry, and with a brush lay the nap the right way. COCKIE LEEKIE.—A fa- ir