174 FUR GAR FURNITURE CREAM. — Linseed oil, 1 pint; spirits of wine, 2 ozs.; vinegar, 1 oz.; butter of antimony, b oz. FURNITURE POLISH. Tlie cheapest is a mixture of lin- seed oil and turpentine, laid on in a thin coat, rubbed off with a soft cloth and polished. Furniture in constant use is greatly improved by washing with vinegar and water, and afterwards applying cold drawn linseed oil, rubbing it very much. It should be rubbed again in a day or two afterwards. Or, linseed oil, 1 pint; spirits of wine, half a gill. Mix well. Apply with a linen rag. Rub dry with a soft cotton cloth. Rub last and hard with a piece of old silk. In time it will have a most beauti- ful gloss. Or, Linseed oil, bees wax scraped into, and gradually dissolved in turpentine, to the thickness of cream. Apply as above, and rub well. Or, 1 pint of linseed oil, 1 oz. of finely powdered rose pink, 1 oz. of shell-lac; beat well 1 oz. of alka- net root, and add it to the other. Keep the vessel in a warm place for a week, stirring now and then. This is excellent for darkening new wood, and removing marks, &c. Apply, and rub as before. Chamois leather is the best to rub with. FURNITURE POLISH. — Spirits of wine, 1 pint; gum shel- lac, and gum lac, of each b an oz.; gum sandarac, £ oz. Melt with very gentle heat, frequently shak- ing the bottle. Double or treble a piece of cloth; put a little polish upon it; cover that with a piece of soft linen rag lightly touched with cold-drawn linseed oil. Rub the furniture or wood in a circular direction. Afterwards, rub in the same way spirits of wine, with a little of the polish added to it; and a very brilliant polish will be produced. Some furniture requires previous scraping with fine glass paper, on account of having been polished with wax. Or, linseed oil, 1 pint; treacle, 8 ozs.; add a glass of gin; stir well; apply with a rag; rub till dry, and it will produce a splendid gloss. FURS, to keep moths from.— Sprinkle them, and the drawers in which they are kept with spirits of turpentine. FURS, to improve. — Warm bran in an oven. Rub it well into the fur several times. Shake and brush till free from dust. Rub light furs with magnesia. GAME PIE.—Divide the birds, if large, into pieces or joints. They may be pheasants, partridges, &c. Add a little bacon or ham. Season well. Cover with puff-paste, and bake carefully. Pour into the pie half a cupful of melted butter, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry, when rather more than half baked. GAME SOUP.—Cut in pieces a partridge, pheasant, or rabbit; add slices of veal, ham, onions, carrots, &c. Add a little water; heat a little on a slow fire, as gra- vy is done; then add some good broth; boil the meat gently till it is done. Strain, and stew in the liquor what herbs you please. GANGREEN, OR MORTIFI- CATION.—See Logwood. GARDENING, Directions for each month in the year. January.—Trench and manure; prepare hot-beds for asparagus, cucumbers, mint, potatoes, and the small salads. Sow the brown, Dutch, and grand admiral cab- bages, curled parsley for trans-