HOR 199 HOP in a pint of water for use. It is a good cosmetic. Add a little laven- der water. HOOPING COUGH.—Use the cold bath daily. Or, rub the feet thoroughly with hog’s lard, before the fire, at going to bed, and keep the child warm there- in. Or, rub the back at lying down with old rum. It seldom fails. Or, give a spoonful of the juice of pennyroyal, mixed with brown sugar-candy, twice a-day. , HOOPING COUGH.-Dissolve 1 a scruple of salt of tartar in a i quarter of a pint of water; add 8 : drops of laudanum, sweeten it with sugar. Give to an infant a teaspoonful four times a day; two i years old, two spoonfuls ; for four years, a table-spoonful. Or, take flower of Benjamin, and a strained opium, of each 2 drachms, a camphire, 2 scruples, essential oil f of aniseeds, half a drachm, recti- I fied spirit of wine, one quart, 4 ozs. I of powdered liquorice, and 4 ozs. I of honey: digest and strain.' Or, take of musk julep, 6 ozs.; par- egoric elixir, J oz., volatile tincture of valerian, 1 drachm ; mix, and take two spoonfuls three or four times every day. Or, take ipe- i cacuanha, 14 grains; warm water i j a pint. Infuse. Take a tea- i spoonful now and then. HOOPING COUGH, Ernbro- ' cation for.—Olive oil eight ounces, ) oil of amber, four ounces, oil of j cloves, sufficient to scent it strong- ly ; croton oil, 3 drops ; mix, rub i on the chest. Or, oil of amber, and spirits of hartshorn, equal / parts. Mix. Apply to the soles i of the feet, and to the palms of the hands, morning, noon, and i night. HOPS.—The extract of tinc- 3 tore of hops may bo used instead ‘ of opium in most cases; it is not narcotic, but very anodyne. In consumption it gives ease without any deleterious effects. Its valuable medicinal properties are but little known. In j aundice, indigestion, melancholy, nervous depression, &e., it has been of singular use. A strong infusion or decoction, is a cure for indiges- tion, attended with nervous irrita- tion, weakness of the stomach and bowels; and for typhoid fevers, and twitching of the tendons. It is of vast service in the after pains of child-birth. It may be taken in tincture, decoction, infusion, or pills made of the extract. HOPS, Infusion of.—Hops, 2 ozs.; boiling water, 1 quart. In- fuse a day. Dose; a wineglassful. —The Tincture is made by macer- ating 1 oz. of the hops in quarter of a pint of proof spirits; dose, \ a drachm to 1 drachm. The Extract is made by boiling the strength of it obtained by infusion or decoction, to a thin syrup, and then evaporating till it becomes thick. Cover close. Dose, in pills, from four to ten grains. Hops heated, in a flannel hag, are a good remedy for the tooth- ache, and neuralgic pains. A bag of hops warmed, and put under the head, allays nervous excite- ment, and procures sleep. Dr. Beech says, he has “given it with success in inflammation of the bowels.” A strong decoction, half a pint at a time, is drunk by the Spaniards for venereal. HOREHOUND.—The plant is very stimulant, diaphoretic, pec- toral, and tonic. It is good for coughs, asthma, and female weak- ness. Very beneficial in con- sumption— See Pulmonary Balsam, or Syrup. HOREHOUND, to candy.— Boil some horehound till the juice is extracted. Boil some sugar till