APO 22 APP bility of the system, and generally terminates in death. Give emetics of Ipecacuanha and tartarized an- timony—blisters to the head— mustard poultices to the legs and feet sharp purges diffusive stimulants of Ammonia, castor oil, assafeetida, valerian, and electricity passed through the head. Prevention of Apoplexy.—Avoid intoxicating drinks, keep the feet dry and warm, take plenty of exer- cise, eat sparingly, sleep with the head higher than the trunk, pre- vent constipation, wash the head and sponge the chest every morn- ing in cold water. For the treatment of Apoplexy, the following hints have been collected from the works of the most eminent physicians:— Remove all compression from every part of the body.—Immerse the legs in warm water and mus- tard for twenty minutes, applying friction at the same time.—Bathe the whole surface with the diluted tincture of Cayenne.—Avoid bleed- ing.—Put a mustard plaster be- tween the shoulders. If possible, let a brisk purgative be adminis- tered, for evacuation is necessary to unload the bowels and stomach, and therefore the pressure on the brain.—Blood-letting in Apoplexy aggravates the cerebral congestion. —Professor Recamier says, “ I have not the least evidence that blood letting has the smallest power to diminish the violence or dura- tion of an apopletic paroxysm; nay, I have every reason to believe that it so far weakens the powers of reaction as to prove fatal, or greatly to retard the cure.”—Apply cold water to the head, and hot water to the feet, if slight symptoms be- gin to appear. At first do it slightly, and increase the applica- tion gradually. This will force back the blood from the upper to the lower extremities through the heart, and remove the disease.— The whole secret of treatment consists in equalizing the circu- lation. APOTHECARIES’ WEIGHT. 20 Grains Cgr.J make 1 Scruple, sc. equal to 20 grains Troy. 3 Scruples 1 Dram, dr., equal to 60 grains. 8 Drams 1 Ounce, oz., equal to 480 grains or 24 scruples. 12 Ounces I Pound, lb., equal to 5760 grains, or 288 sc., or 96 drams. By this weight medicines are mixed; but drugs are bought and sold wholesale by avoirdupois. Apothecaries’ Measure.— 60 Minims make 1 Fluid Dram.rfr. 8 Fluid Drams 1 Ounce oz. 16 Fluid Ounces 1 Pint pt. 8 Pints 1 Gallon ... .gal. APPLES, to keep.—Let them be well dried, and pack in a hamper, or box without lid, wrapped in straw, or covered with saw-dust in layers. Keep in a cool place, and not exposed to frost. Apples should always be plucked when the weather is fine; and when packed they should not touch one another. The Americans preserve apples and pears by cutting them into eights, without the core, and dry them in a kiln till quite hard; they will keep for two or three years. When used, they steep in hot water. APPLE, Currant, or Dam- son Dumplings, or Puddings.— Shred very fine about 5 or 6 ounces of suet, and roll it into 8 or 10 ounces of flour; add a little salt, and make into a paste with water. Line a basin with the paste, and cover it with the same; tie a cloth over it tightly, and boil till the fruit is enough. Some add eggs and milk in