392 SMO SNI sary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread- crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make them a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will he lost. SMELTS, to pickle. Clean and wash them; heat very fine, pepper, nutmeg, mace, saltpetre, and salt; put the smelts in a row in a jar; between every layer of smelts, strew the seasoning with 4 or 5 bay leaves. Then boil some port wine, and pour on a sufficient quantity to cover them. When cold, close the jar, and keep for use. SMELTS, Eperlans a la Ang- laise.—Put 2 spoonfuls of oil into a stewpan ; salt, and pepper; the half of a lemon cut in pieces; hav- ing taken off the skin and seeds, with 2 glasses of sherry wine ; let this seasoning boil a quarter of an hour; put in the smelts; lpt them cool; drain, and pour over them the following sauce :—put a small clove of garlic into boiling water to blanch ; bruise it with the blade of a knife, and put't into a stew- an with parsley and small onions ashed, and 2 glasses of Cham- pagne ; let it boil five minutes; put in a pat of butter, rubbed in flour; and another pat without flour, salt, and pepper; thicken the sauce, and add the juice of a lemon. SMOKY CHIMNEYS.—Cer- tain chimneys draw well ordinarly, but are subject to violent fits of smoking in certain winds, and generally in boisterous weather, blowing both flame and smoke in- to the room to an intolerable ex- tent. For this particular class of nuisance I have for many years past adopted a very cheap and permanent remedy, which has never failed. Instead of a common chimney-pot, I fix, in the like manner, a 9-inch drain-pipe, two feet long, socket downwards, which gives it a firm seat; and on this I fix another like drain-pipe, having two 4-inch double junctions, in- serted obliquely into the 9-inch pipe. When the wind blows, it rushes into these lateral openings, which, having a turn upwards, direct its blast against the down- ward current from the top of the pot. The fixing should be in ce- ment, and you have a cheap chim- ney-top, which will neither perish nor blow off. I use nothing but drain - pipes for chimney - pots, which, as well as being cheaper and stronger than any thing else, admit of a second and third story being added to them if the draught be dull, or the branch pipe top as I have described, if subject to downward gusts. For kitchen flues, 12-inch pipes are safer.— T. E. in the Builder. To increase the draught in the chimney, some persons make a hole in the hearthstone, providing there is a room below, and cover it with a ventilator to protect it from cinders and ashes. Or, inflate a large ox’s bladder, and tie it by the neck to the mid- dle of a stick, and place it across a chimney, two feet from the top, or at the foot of the chimney-pot. The buoyancy of the air keeps the bladder continually in a circular motion, and thereby prevents the rush of air into the funnel from descending so low as the fire-place. SNIPES, to dress in surtout.— Make a forcemeat of veal and beef suet, pounded with crumbs of bread; add beaten mace, pepper, salt, parsley, and sweet herbs,