394 SOL SOL ■with Spirits of Turpentine; add Salt of Tartar, 1 oz.; best Potass, 1 oz.; work the whole into a paste with a little Soap. It is excellent for removing grease spots. SODA CAKE.—Rub i lb. of good butter into 1 lb. of dry flour, and work it very small. Mix well with these a lb. of'sifted sugar; add a cupful of boiling milk, and three eggs well beaten; also j lb. of currants, grated nutmeg, and fresh lemon rind. Mix all well and lightly together; and just be- fore you mould it, stir in a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Bake an hour or more. SODA WATER POWDERS. —Soda water is prepared from pow- der just like ginger beer, (see Gin- ger Beer), except that instead of the two powders, there mentioned, these two are used, viz.—for one glass, 30 grains of carbonate of soda; for the other glass, 25 grains of tartaric or citric acid. SOLDER.—Two parts of lead and one part of tin ; its goodness is tried by melting it, and pouring the size of a crown piece upon the table, and, if it be good, there will arise little bright stars in it. Ap- ply resin when this solder is used. SOLDERIN G.—Tin Plate Workers, and Plumbers solder with an alloy, comprising about one part tin, and two parts lead. Bewter contains about the same, adding three parts of bismuth.— Brass, iron, and copper are solder- ed with an alloy of zinc and cop- per, called spelter.—Zinc and lead are soldered with lead and tin, not quite equal parts, lead preponder- ating.—Hard solder consists of two parts copper, and tin one part. —Soft Solder, two parts tin, and lead one part. SOLES, to choose. If good, they are thick and firm, the belly of a fine cream colour: if they in- cline to a bluish colour, and are flabby, it is evident that they are not fresh. They are in perfection about Midsummer. Run. SOLES, a la Horley. After cleaning the soles cut them entire- ly open by the back from head to tail; cut each into four nice fillets, and steep them in lemon juice, salt, parsley, and sliced onions; shake them in this seasoning, where they ought to remain nearly an hour; when ready to serve, drain, flour, and fry them ; they must be firm and of a good colour; dish, and serve under them an Italienne or tomate sauce. SOLES, alaPortugeese.—Take one large, or two small; if large, cut the fish in two; if small, they need only be split. The bones be- ing taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon juice, give a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a force-meat over each piece, and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over; and put the remainder of egg, with a little meat gravy, a spoonful of caper sauce, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley into the bottom of the pan; cover it close, and bake it till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed; if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to it. SOLES, to boil.—Skin and gut two soles; wash, and lay them in vinegar, salt and water for two hours; then put them into a stew pan with a pint of sherry, sweet herbs, onion, and cloves, pepper, and salt. Cover them, and when tie Iit k j !'j Jsluj \h fac fa i