SAIT SAtr 371 SAUCE, Ramolade.—Put into a very nice tin saucepan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut ketchup, 12 anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some cayenne to taste, 3 ozs. of scraped horse-radish, 3 blades of mace, and 2 tea-spoonfuls of made mustard; boil it all gently till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very dose, and seal the top. SAUCE, Robart, for Rumps or i Steaks.—Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and when brown- ing throw in a handful of sliced onions, cut small; fry them brown, but don’t let them burn; add half a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it another fry: then put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes; skim off the fat; add a tea-spoon- ful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and juice of half a lemon; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. SAUCE for any kind of fish. —Take a little of the water that drains from the fish ; add an equal quantity of veal gravy ; boil them together, and put it into a sauce- pan, with an onion, an anchovy, a spoonful of ketchup, and a glass of sherry ; thicken with butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. SAUCE for Carp or boiled Tur- key.—Rub J lb. of butter with a ' ;ea-spoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near 1 i quarter of a pint of thick cream, i md half an anchovy chopped fine, ‘ lot washed; set it over the fire, J md as it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, add a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon ; stir well to hin- der from curdling. SAUCE for cold Partridges, Moor-game, cfc.—Pound four an- chovies, and two cloves of garlic, in a mortar: add oil and vinegar to the taste. Mince the meat, and put the sauce to it as wanted. SAUCE for Pucks.—Serve a rich gravy in the dish; cut the breast into slices, but don’t take them off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it; then squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoon- ful of gravy over before you help. SAUCE for Fowl of any sort. —Boil some veal gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine, as of gravy: pour it into the dish or a boat. SAUCE for hot or cold roast beef.—Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. SAUCE for Salmon.—Boil a bunch of fennel and parsley; chop them small, and put into it some good melted butter. Gravy sauce should be served with it:—put a little brown gravy into a saucepan, with one anchovy, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a table-spoonful of walnut pickle, two spoonfuls of the water in which the fish was boiled, a stick of horse-radish, a little browning, and salt; boil them four minutes; thicken with flour and a good lump of butter, and strain through a hair sieve. SAUCE for Savoury Pies. Take some gravy, one anchovy, a sprig of sweet herbs, an onion, and a little mushroom liquor ; boil it a little, and thicken it with burnt