118 COM COL loaf; shred suet, 8 ozs.; and mix with 8 ozs. of currants, one of ci- tron mixed fine, one of orange, sugar, 4 ozs.; half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separ- ately. Mix and make into the shape and size of a goose-egg. Put | lb. of butter into a frying- pan ; and, when melted and quite hot, stew gently in it over a stove; turn them two or three times till of a tine light brown.. Mix a glass of brandy with the batter. Serve with pudding-sauce. COLONEL PUDDING.-Pour a pint and a half of boiling milk and cream upon some of the choicest biscuits grated; they must be very light; add the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, some gra- ted nutmeg, a spoonful of flour, some fine sugar, a little brandy, some candied lemon, and lemon juice according to taste. Butter a basin, boil 1 hour; serve it with melted butter, wine, and sugar. COLOURINGS FOR JEL- LIES, ICES, OR CAKES.— For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a dram and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. Add in boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop of wa- ter ; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor and squeezed. For green, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil in a tea-cupful of water in a saucepan, in order to take off the rawness. COLOURING MATTER. — A chemist of Lyons states that the colouring matter of any tree may be known by the colour of its fruit; and advises the boiling of the bark with lime, when a precipitate will be formed of the same colour as its fruit. Several of the new vegetable dyes have thus been discovered. COLTSFOOT.—This plant is well known. The leaves are the basis of the British herb tobacco. It has demulcent bitter qualities, and is slightly tonic and stomachic. The leaves smoked are useful in asthma. Dr. Cullen found a strong decoction of the leaves bene- ficial in scrofula cases—and to succeed where sea-water had fail- ed. It should be persevered in. Dr. Percival found it useful in hec- tic diarrhoea. A decoction with wormwood has done wonders in gravel and stone. COLTSFOOT SYRUP.-Colts- foot, 5 ozs.; balm and hyssop, 1 oz. each ; horehound, £ oz. BoD in 2 quarts of water down to I quart; strain, add 1 lb. or more of sugar; boil till as thick as honey. For cough or shortness of breath, take a teaspoonful occasionally. COLTSFOOT LOZENGES.— To a pint of water add one hand- ful of coltsfoot leaves; boil down to a gill, strain it, when cold, and add \ lb. of sugar. Boil to a syrup. Strain again and put to it as much common liquorice as will give it consistency. Then form it into any shape you please. COMFITS.—Take 1 lb. of raw sugar, and make it into syrup with water; then take 1 lb. of coriander seeds, and dip them in the syrup; then put the seeds in- to a sieve with a little flour, shako them well in it, and place them to dry. Keep steeping them in the syrup, adding flour, and dry- ing them till they are of the size you want them to be. Caraway