BEE BEA 48 them immediately; to preserve the green colour. Ru. BEANS, French a la Creme.— Slice the beans and boil them in water with salt. When soft, drain. Put into a stew-pan two ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of three eggs, beaten up into a gill of cream, and set over a slow fire. When hot, add a spoonful of vinegar, and the bones, simmer for five minutes. BEANS, FRENCH, Pickled.— Put small young beans into strong salt and water for three days, and stir now and then. Put them into a sauce-pan with vine leaves, un- der and over them, and fill with salt and water; keep on the fire till they are a fine green; drain; place in jars, and cover them with vinegar, allspice, cayenne, ginger, boiled sis minutes; pour on hot. BEANS, FRENCH, as Salad. Boil the beans in salt and water, drain them, season with cayenne pepper, cream and vinegar; cover them; to stand three hours. Drain again, and mix salad of any kind, seasoning in the usual way. BEANS AND BACON, to dress.—When you dress beans and bacon, boil the bacon by itself, and the beans by themselves, for the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Always throw some salt into the water, and some parsley nicely picked. When the beans are done enough, which you will know by their being tender, throw them into a colander to drain. Take up the bacon and skin it; throw some raspings of the bread over the top, and if yon havo a sal- amander, make it red hot, and hold it over it. to brown the top of the bacon; if you have not one, set it before the fire to brown. Lay the beans in the dish, and the bacon in the middle, on tho top, and send them to table, with but- ter in a tureen. BEANS, Windsor, Fricasseed. —When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready hot; just heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do not use them for this dish. Ru. BEAUTY, personal, to pro- mote.—Labour to be cheerful. Do not give way to trouble. If you have misfortunes, bear them with submission; for brooding, maun- dering, &c. do no good. Above all be good-tempered. For the state of the mind has great influence upon the facial appearance, and bodily attitude. BECHAMEL SAUCE.—Put a few slices of ham into a stew-pan, a few mushrooms, two or three shalots, two cloves, also a bay leaf and a bit of butter. Let them stand a few hours. Add a little water, flour, and milk or cream ; simmer forty minutes. Scalded parsley, very fine, may be added. BEDS, to detect dampness in.— After having warmed the bed with the pan, place between the sheets a wine or beer glass; if after a few minutes, the glass collects no va- pour, it is safe, and vice versa. In all doubtful cases, sleep between the blankets. BED SORES.—The white of an egg beaten to a strong froth; then drop in gradually, whilst you are beating, two table-spoonfuls of spieits of wine; put it into a bot- tle, and apply occasionally with a feather. Soap Plaster, sold by the Druggists, protects the af- fected part from friction or rub- bing. BEECH WOOD, to stain Mah- ogany colour.—Put two ounces of dragon’s blood in small pieces into a quart of spirits of wine; let it stand in a bottle, in a warm place, and shake it frequently.