ULC ULC 427 mortification. Wash the ulcer •with tincture of myrrh, and apply a poultice made of charcoal, yeast, slippery elm, ginger, and a minute portion of tincture of cayenne. Bear it as long as possible. Then apply the saturnine cerate. The following is recommended by Dr. Beach :—Take sweet clover tops and stalks, burdock leaves, and parsley, a handful of each; get the strength out by boiling; strain, and add 1 lb. of resin, and \ lb. of fresh butter; simmer until of a proper consistence. A cold water cloth constantly applied is a good remedy. Put a little cerate on the ulcer previously. Attend to the general health, by cleansing the stomach and bowels, and then giving tonics. Saturnine Cerate. Powdered acetate of lead, 2 drachms ; white wax, 2 ozs.; olive oil, half a pint. Melt the wax in the oil, and add gradually the acetate of lead, sep- arately rubbed down with a por- tion of the oil reserved for that purpose. ULCER.—Dry and powder a walnut leaf, and strew it on, and lay another walnut leaf on that.— Or, boil walnut-tree leaves in water with a little sugar. Apply a cloth dipped in this, changing it once in two days. This has done wonders. Or, foment morning and eve- ning with a decoction of walnut- tree leaves, and bind the leaves on. This has cured foul bones; yea, and a leprosy. Foment morning and evening with a decoction of mint; then sprinkle on it finely- powdered rue. Or, burn to ashes, but not too long, the stalks on which the red coleworts grow. Make a plaster of this and fresh butter. Change it once a day. Or apply a poultice of boiled parsnips. This will cure oven when the bone is foul.— Wesley. ULCERATED GUMS. —Di- lute elixir of vitriol, so as to make it slightly acid, and wash the mouth frequently with it. Or wash with diluted tincture of myrrh. ULCEROUS SORES. See Logwood. URINE, Involuntary.—It pro- ceeds from weakness of the urinary organs caused by the great use of tea and coffee, ardent spirits, &c. It is often an attendant of advan- ced life, especially when the habits have been irregular. It sometimes results from paralysis. It is a very troublesome complaint. “ If the patient can endure it, use the cold bath. Or, take a tea- spoonful of powdered agrimony in a little water morning and evening. Or a quarter of a pint of alum pos- set every night.”— Wesley. Make a decoction of bayberry bark, hemlock bark, wild cherry tree bark. Bruise them. Take a wine-glassful at a time. Use at the same time the Diuretic Drops. Take occasionally 6 or 7 drops of laudanum in a little water. Ab- stain from tea and coffee, or reduce the quantity taken. Ardent spirits must be abandoned, and all liquids sparingly taken. When it is occasioned by stone or gravel, it requires the same treat- ment as recommended for the lat- ter disease. When it is the conse- quence of morbid irritation of the bladder, prostrate gland, or disease in the urethra, the tincture of Buchu leaves in the dose of two tea-spoonful, two or three times a-day, in a large wine-glassful of the decoction of Marshmallow Root, is a very valuable remedy. If incontinence of urine proceeds from paralysis, a blister must be applied to the upper part of the sacrum. Or rub the region of the bladder with tincture of cayenne,