401 SPI SPI urcliased, the buyer places it on is other cards immediately before him, and does not turn up any more until a better trump appears in some other hand. In some companies it is usual for all who turn up a knave to put a fish into the pool. The game may also be varied, as is frequently done, by dealing a spare hand, which must not be looked at till all the rest have been shown; and if it contains the best trump, the pool remains for the next deal, in addition to the usual contribution of every player. SPERMACETI OINTMENT —Take of olive oil, one pint; white wax and spermaceti, of each three ounces. Melt them with a gentle heat, and briskly stir to- gether till quite cold. If two drachms of camphor previously rubbed with a small quantity of oil, be added to the above, it will make the White Camphorated I Ointment. SPICED BEEF.-Take a round 1 of an ox, or young heifer, from 20 < to 40 lbs. Cut it neatly, so that . the thin flank end can wrap nearly , round. Take from 2 to 4 ozs. of i saltpetre, and 1 oz of coarse sugar, and two handfuls of common salt. Mix them well together; rub it all over. The next day salt it well as for boiling. Let it lie from J two to three weeks, turning it ; every two or three days. Take out of the pickle, and wipe it dry. Then take cloves, mace, well pow- 1 dered, a spoonful of gravy, and i rub it well into the beef. Roll it up as tightly as possible; skewer it, and tie it up tight. Pour in i the liquor till the meat is quite saturated, in which state it must be kept. To keep the beef a long time, ■ once in two months boil the pickle, and clear off the scum. Put in when boiled 2 ozs. of sugar, and I oz. of common salt. When taken out of pickle, dry well, and put in paper bags, and hang them in a dry place. SPICE CAKE.—Tako 3 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of butter, H lb. of su- gar, 1 lb. of cun-ants, and a few seeds; mix all together with milk ; observe that the butter and sugar must be rubbed into the flour, and then made into round cakes of any size, and nipped on the edges, then baked in a pretty hot oven, with its door open while you bake. SPINACH to dress.—Spinach requires great care in washing and picking it. When that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, sprinkle it with a lit- tle salt, and cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter; it looks well if pres- sed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. SP1NACPI and EGGS.-When the spinach is boiled, it must be squeezed dry, chopped very fine, and put into a stew-pan, with a little butter, cream, pepper, and salt.. Dish the spinach, and then put in the eggs to poach ; trim the ragged parts of the whites, and put them on the spinach. SPINACH SOUP.—Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, a head of celery, two car- rots, and a little thyme and pars- ley, put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled; stew till the vegetables are quite ten- der, work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and liquor, put a quart of fresh water, z