SKI 385 SKI time till the fricassee be thick and smooth. Garnish with lemon. SKATE SOUP. — Make it of the stock for fish-sonp, with an oz. of vermicelli boiled in it, a little before it is served. Then add £ a pint of cream, beaten with the oiks of two eggs. Stir it near ut not on the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the soup an hour. SKIN, to cleanse from, dark I spots or flesh ivorms. The best way is to squeeze them out; or wash the skin with milk and flow- ers of sulphur well mixed. Apply elder-flower ointment at night. An infusion of horse-radish in milk is very useful. SKIN, to clear a tanned.—Wash with a solution of carbonate of soda and a little lemon juice; then with fuller’s earth water, or the juice i of unripe grapes. SKIN, to dye it olive. Mix I walnut juice with an infusion of anotta; only a small quantity of the latter. Dip paper in to ascer- tain the tint. SKIN, to preserve in persons confined to bed.—Apply the white of an egg, well beaten, and mixed with spirits of wine. SKITTLE S.—The game of 1 skittles is a favourite amusement in many parts of England, and is too well known to require descrip- tion in these pages; we shall { merely give a few instructions for young players, and the laws by which the game is governed. Bowling.—Let the player hold the bowl in his right hand, with the bias side from him,withhis left jfoot advanced before the right, which must bo at the mark, his body bending towards the frame, but in an easy position; then with an equal motion, throw the bowl along the board with suffici- ent strength to reach the frame; he should endeavour to hit with the bowl the left-hand side of the first pin, in accomplishing which he will be tolerably certain of bringing down four or five every time the first pin is hit in that manner. He must take care not to aim at the first pin in a straight direction, but cause the bowl to form a curve, by which it will lose something of its force, and strike the pins with a greater certainty of success. Tipping.—When the learner is going to tip he should hold the smaller circumference, or opposite side of the bias in the palm of his hand, grasping it very strong with his fingers, as few can be tip- ped when the bowl is loosely held; he must place his left foot quite clear of the frame between the first and ninth pin, and his right foot behind him in an easy position, and in such direction that he may with ease hit his pins in the man- ner following: He must strike his first or sec- ond pin in the middle or largest part, and in the same motion and instant of time, deliver his bowl at the fourth pin. Striking them in this manner generally has the following effect: hitting the first pin not quite full, forces it against the middle or fifth pin from thence to the seventh, and will frequently rebound to the eighth without any roll. The second pin if struck well will knock down the third, and the fourth or bowl pin will strike the sixth, the ninth is often brought down by some of the rolling pins. When the learner is to tip for four upon game he should choose the pins No. 8, 7, and 4, placing his left foot by the side of the frame, with his toe nearly in a line with the bottom of the seventh Y