37 BAC BAC immediately, and out-door exercise in a pure atmosphere, and a course of tonics should be taken imme- diately. AUNT NELLY’S PUD- DING.—Half a pound of flour, half pound of treacle, six ounces of chopped suet, the juice and peel of one lemon, 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, two or three eggs. Mix and beat all together. Boil in a basin, (previously well buttered) four hours.—For sauce, melted butter, a wine-glassful of Sherry, and two or three table-spoonfuls of apricot jam. A YENS.—This plant is astrin- gent, styptic, tonic, febrifuge, stomachic, and it is very applica- ble to all fevers, and promotes di- gestion. This plant is useful in dy- sentery, a lax state of the bowels, asthma, colics, debility, sore throat, &c., &c. It is the opinion of an eminent physician, that its contin- ued use restores strength (o the most shattered and enfeebled constitu- tions. Decoction, sweetened with sugar and milk, makes a very pleasant beverage, having much of the taste of coffee or chocolate. Take half a pint of the decoction at a time; and about forty or fifty grains of the powder daily.— See Robinson’s Herbal. AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. 16 Drams .. .. 1 Ounce. 16 Ounces .. .. 1 Pound. 14 Pounds .. .. 1 Stone. 28 Pounds, or 2 stones 1 Quarter. 4 Quarters or 8 stone or 112 pounds 1 Hundred 20 Hundreds .. 1 Ton. By this weight nearly all the necessaries of life are weighed; bread, cheese, butter, meat, gro- ceries, coal, &c. BACHELOR’S CAKE.—One pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter or lard, four wine-glassfuls of milk, half a pound of Sultana raisins, quarter of a pound of currants, the same of candied peel, a quarter of a nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, one of cinnamon, and one of carbonate of soda. These in- gredients being well mixed, and slowly baked for an hour and a half, will form a very nice cake. BACK, Strain in the.—The first thing is rest; take night and morning 15 or 20 drops of the balsam of capiva. If the part is inflamed, apply cold water cloths. Let the bowels be kept gently open by aperients. When the inflam- mation is gone, rub the part with the Stimulating Liniment, page 405. The application of the Plaster for the Stomach, or the Warm Plaster, page 317, will be found useful. Gu. BACKGAMMON.—This game is played by two persons, with a box and dice upon a table divided into two parts, upon which there are twelve black and twelve white points. Each player has fifteen men, black and white, to distin- guish them, which are thus placed: —If you play into the right-hand table, two upon the ace point in your adversary’s table; five upon the six-point in the opposite ta- ble ; three upon the cinque point of the nearest table; and five on the six point in your own table. The grand point is to bring the men round into your own table; all throws that contribute towards it, and prevent your opponent doing the like, are advantageous to you, and vice-versa. The best throw upon the dice is the aces, as it stops the six point in the outer table, and secures the cinque in your own; whereby the adver- sary’s two men upon your ace point cannot got out with either four, five, or six.