436 VEL YEN and a cup turned up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid and pour in the stew. VEGETABLE SOUP.—Pare and slice five or six cucumbers; and add to these as many cos let- tuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper, and salt, a pint and a half of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with § lb. of fresh butter, into a sauce-pan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour; then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them two hours; rub down a little flour into a tea-cup- ful of water, boil it with the rest twenty minutes, and^ serve it. VEILS, Black Bace, to clean. —Pass through a warm liquor of bullock’s gall and water; after which rinse in cold water, then cleanse for stiffening, and finish as follows:—Take glue, about the size of a bean, pour boiling water upon it, and, when dissolved, pass the veil through it, then clap it between your hands. Starch and dry. VEILS, White lace, to clean.— Boil the veil gently for 15 minutes in solution of white soap, put into a basin holding warm water and soap, and keep gently squeezing it till it is clean, and then rinse it from the soap. Then take a ves- sel of cold water, into which put a drop or two of chemic, or liquid blue; rinse the veil in it, and then starch and dry. VELVET CREAM.—Dissolve § oz. of isinglass in a cupful of sherry wine, one pint of cream, the juice of a large lemon. Sweeten the cream as you like, and when the isinglass is dissolved, put in the juice to the cream, then pour the wine to that. Stir it frequent- ly until it begins to thicken, and pour into a mould. VELVET, to raise the plush of. —Make a clean brick hot, place upon it a wet cloth, and hold the velvet over it, and the steam will raise the plush. A basin of boil- ing water placed underneath will answer the same purpose. VENICE TURPENTINE OINTMENT.—Venice Turpen- tine, 2 ozs.; tar, 1 oz.; butter 4 ozs. Simmer until they are well mixed. This is very good for scald head, ringworm, &c. First wash the head well with soap and water, and then apply the ointment. VENISON, to choose.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it, when it has much of the haut gout. VENISON, to dress. — A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half roasting; doe, only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather over than under-done. Spread a sheet of white paper) with butter, and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with salt; ^ lay a coarse paste on strong paper, ’ and cover the haunch; tie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from the fire. Baste it often; ten minutes before serving take off the paper, put nearer the fire, and baste with butter and flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, arid not into the dish ; made, thus: Cut off the fat from 2 or 3 lbs. of a loin of old mutton, and set it in steaks, on a gridiron just to brown one side; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water;! for an hour simmer gently; un- cover and stew till the gravy is