PIL PIL 310 ia gone. Or, take a gentle ape- rient also every other night, and on the alternate night, the Tonic Pill, which see When tho constitution has be- come habituated to the disease, stimulants, as pepper and ginger, taken with the aliment often afford, considerable relief.—Elecampane root, 2 ozs.; sweet fennel seed powder, 3 ozs.; black pepper pow- der, 1 oz.; milk of sulphur, 1 oz.; purified honey, 2 ozs. ; brown sugar, and treacle, of each 1J oz. Mix the first four ingredients; melt the honey, sugar, and treacle, and then mix all together. About the size of a nutmeg to be taken two or three times a day.—The decoction of oak bark is said to be a good remedy for piles. “ Aloes,” says Dr. Buchan, “which form a principal part of the advertised pills, are frequently the cause of piles. Therefore per- sons subject to them should avoid all aloetic purges. An habitual costiveness is much more effectu- ally and safely removed by a spoon- ful of castor oil taken occasionally in an evening.”—A weak solution of sugar of lead with a little lau- danum is useful when the piles are very painful.—Powdered galls and hog’s lard form a good oint- ment.—Henbane leaves powdered and mixed with slippery elm and sweet oil, and six drops of lauda- num, form a good application.— The pain is often removed by an emetic, or by taking f,wice a day 20 or 30 drops of balsam of capivi on loaf sugar, or in a little pepper- mint water.—The vapour of boil- ing water over leeks is useful. PILES.—See Lenitive Elec- tuary. PILES, bleeding.—Lightly boil the juice of nettles with a little sugar; take 2 ozs. It seldom needs repeating.— Wesley. PILES, to cure.—Apply warm treacle. Or, a tobacco-leaf steeped in water twenty-four hours. Or, a poultice of boiled brook-lime. It seldom fails. Or, a bruised onion, skinned, or roasted in ashes. It perfectly cures the dry piles. Or, fumigate with vinegar, where- in red hot flints have been quenched. This softens even schirrous tumours.— Wesley. INWARD PILES.—Swallow a pill of pitch, fasting. One pill usually cures the bleeding piles. Or, eat a large leek, boiled. Or, take twice a-day, as much as lies on a shilling, of the thin skin of walnuts, powdered.— Wesley. PILES, Ointment for.—Take of emolient ointment, 2 ozs. ; liquid laudanum, j an oz. Mix these in- gredients with the yolk of an egg, and work them well together. PILEWORT OINTMENT, improved.—The plant, Pilewort, (ranunculus ficariaj flowers in March and April, It should be gathered when in bloom, chopped extremely fine, after the roots and plant have been well washed. Boil in lard, without burning, two hours, stirring all the time. Strain while hot. Add 1 drachm of bella- donna, 1 drachm each of opium and camphor, powdered. Mix, and make an ointment. PILLAU, Egyptian.—Put a large fowl into a pan witli chopped ham, k lb. of sausage meat, chop- ped onion, 5 lb. of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few dried mush- rooms,'chopped fine, pepper, and salt. Stew the fowl gently until tender, adding a little water now and then to prevent it becoming dry. Pick all the meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces, removing the skin. Boil dryly 1 lb. of rice; mix it well with tho fowl and gravy, and season it to taste. Place it at the side of the fire, or