147 DRO DRO adversary to take the man or insist upon him taking his omitted by the “huff.” 5. If either party, when it is his turn to move, hesitates for a longer period than three minutes, the other may call upon him to play; and if, after so calling upon him, he delay longer than five minutes, he loses the game. 6. During a game neither parly must leave the room without the permission of the other; and a third person should decide the time of absence. 6. When the draws are given to an inferior player, the game must be played in a more advanced state; and when the situations become so equal that no advantage can be gained, then he who gives the draws shall either force the other out of his strong position, or he must be considered to have lost the game. ( DRINK, Strengthening.— Put to a cupful of pearl barley, with three pints of cold water, the rind jof a lemon, and a small piece of :cinnamon. Boil gently till the ibarley is tender ; add \ oz. of ex- tract of sarsaparilla, and boil gent- ly five minutes more. Strain, and sweeten with honey, or sugar. lYou may add ginger or cayenne, if flatulent, or, phlegmatic. DRINK FOR THE SICK.— Take half an ounce of sugar-candy, quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar, and a few lemon and orange chips; pour upon them one quart of boiling water. When cold pour off DRIPPING, to clarify.—Put .vater in a pan, boil, and pour your dripping in; cool, and the drip- ling wiU swim at the top, whilo ill impurities will sink into the vater. Repeat the process, if it is leedful. DROPSY.—From the Greek, udor, water, and opsis, an appear- ance. It denotes the effusion of water, or rather serous fluid into any cavity of the body, or into the cellular tissue under the skin. It is indicated by distension of the belly, difficult breathing, dry skin, immoderate thirst, a dry cough, swelling of the feet and legs, deficient urine, and deficient perspiration. Observe; Dropsy is a symptom of disease, rather than itself a disease, and generally the original cause is a morbid change in one or more of the prin- cipal organs of the body, the heart, liver, or kidneys. It is caused by a loss of vitality in the capillary exhalents of the blood vessels, by which they are deprived of their elasticity or contractility, conse- quent upon the loss of the electric fluid, or the nervous energy upon which their contractility chiefly depends; and from a deficien- cy of iron in the blood. Give a vapour bath made of bit- ter herbs. (See Vapour Bath) Drink the Composition Powder tea, sweetened. Give diuretics, and a pill made of cayenne, colocynth and rhubarb; and also the Diu- retic Infusion. Keep up the per- spiration when deficient; and fo- ment the body daily with the Stimulating Liniment. The com- pound extract of jalap is very effective in evacuating the water. Or, mustard, J oz.; juniper ber- ries, milkweed root, horse radish root; black alder bark, mandrake root, bitter-sweet bark, of each, 1 oz. Bruise them, and infuse in 3 quarts of hot water, adding the juice of a lemon. A wineglassful two or three times a-day. Or, take as much as lies upon a sixpence of powdered laurel leaves, every second or third day. It works both ways. Or, make tea of roots of dwarf elder. It works