CHE 106 CHE it round the sides of your dish, and throw sugar at the bottom. Then lay in your fruit, and some sugar at the top. A few red cur- rants put along with the cherries make an agreeable addition. Puton the lid; bake in a slack oven. Far. CHERRY PUDDING.—Make a paste of flour, beef suet chopped small, and water. Butter a basin, and line with paste. Put in the cher- ries, and sugar; cover with crust, tie in a cloth, boil H hour. A. N. CHERRY WINE.—Pick and press out the ,juice of good cherries, White or Black Hearts, or May Dukes, without breaking the stones. (This wine is much im- proved by adding rasps, and red currants; an addition of black currants causes it to resemble port). To every gallon put 2 lbs. of fine loaf sugar. Put in a cask till the fermentation ceases, stop it close. In three or four months, bottle it, and in five or six weeks it will be fit to drink. CHESS.—This is a very scien- tific game. The reader is referred to Hoyle, Walker, and Lewis on Chess. Each player has a force of 16 men, viz., a king, queen, 2 bishops, 2 knights, 2 castles, or rooks, and 8 pawns. They all have different moves. The Ring can only move one square at a time, forwards, backwards, diagonally, &c. The Queen is the most power- ful of all the pieces ; can move in straight lines, either forwards, backwards, or sideways, to the extent of the board, or she can move diagonally within the same range. The Rook moves same as the Queen, except diagonally. The Bishop moves either forwards or backwards diagonally, the full ex- tent of the board, keeping on his own square. The Knight moves one square, and one diagonally, or one diagonally, and one square, forwards, or sideways, &c. He is the only piece that leaps over the head of another piece. The Pawn moves one square at once straight forward; but it takes a piece diag- onally. If a Pawn reaches the other side of the board, it claims a superior piece, instead of itself, ex- cept the king. LAWS OF CHESS.—1. The chess-board must be so placed that each player has a white comer square nearest his right hand. 2. If a piece or pawn be mis- placed, it must be rectified, if per- ceived before four moves have been made. 3. If a player on commencing the game omit to place all his men on the board, he may correct the omission before making his fourth move. 4. Should a player, who under- takes to give the odds of a piece or pawn, neglect to move it from the board after four moves, the adver- sary may continue or recommence the game. 5. When no odds are given the players must take the first more of each game alternately, drawing lots who shall begin the first game. 6. The player who gives the odds has the right of moving first in each game, unless agreed other- wise. Whenever a pawn is given it is to be the king’s bishop’s pawn. 7. If a piece or pawn be touched, it must bo played, unless at the moment of touching it, the player exclaims, “J'adoube” (I adjust). 8. While a player holds the piece or pawn he has touched, he may play it to any square but the one he took it from, but if he quit the piece, he cannot recall the movo. 9. If a player takes one of his adversary’s pieces or pawns wilh- out saying “J’adoube,” or words to that effect, his adversary may compel him to take it; but if it