NET 269 NER add of the volatile tinctuve of va- lerian, 3 drachms ; tincture of Col- umba, | ounce Mix. When the nerves are irritable, attended with indigestion, flatulence, and occa- sional headache, this is often ser- viceable. Three table-spoonfuls to be taken three times a day. NERVOUS DISORDERS; Rev. John Wesley's Directions.— When the nerves perform the office too languidly a good air is the first ; requisite. The patient should rise early, and, as soon as the dew is off the ground, walk; let his breakfast be mother of thyme tea, gathered in June, using half as much as wo do of common tea. Or, the com- mon garden thyme, if the former cannot be procured. When the nerves are too sensible, let the per- son breathe a proper air. Let him eat fresh veal, chickens, or mutton. Vegetables should be eaten spa- ringly; the most simple is the French bean, and the best root is the turnip. Wine should be avoid- ed ; and all sauces. Sometimes he may breakfast upon a quarter of an ounce of valerian root infused in hot water, to which he may add both cream and sugar. Tea is not proper. When the person finds an uncommon oppression, let him take a large spoonful of tincture of valerian root. This tincture should be made thus:—Cut in pieces six ounces of wild valerian root, gathered in June, and fresh dried. Bruise it i in a mortar, that the pieces may be split, but it should not be beat : into powder: put this into a quart of strong sherry wine; cork the bottle and let it stand three weeks, shaking it every day; then press it out, and filter through paper. But there is no remedy for ner- vous disorders of every kind, com- parable to the proper and constant use of the electrical machine. NERVOUS DROPS.—Mix 8 drops of spirits of hartshorn with 4 drops of the oil of lavender, and take in a wine-glassful of water. NERVOUS MIXTURE. Liquid carbonate of ammonia, \ drachm; compound tincture of cardamom, J oz.; oil of lavender, 8 drops; mint water, 3 ozs.; mix. and take in two or three doses. It is invaluable. NERVOUS PILL.—Assafceti- da, extract of hops, carbonate of ammonia, of each 1 oz.; extract of valerian, 20 grains. Dissolve the first two ingredients over the fire, then take off, and add the others; mix well, and with a few drops of the oil of lavender, and a little powdered liquorice, form into pills. Dose, one or two once or twice a day.— Valuable in all nervous and hysterical disorders. NERVOUS TINCTURE.— Compound tincture of bark, 2 ozs.; ammoniated tincture of valerian, If ozs.; compound tincture of aloes, g oz. Mix. Good for gen- eral weakness, low spirits, and ner- vous irritability. Two teaspoon- fuls twice a day. NETTLE.—The nettles make a good rubefacient for limbs cold, benumbed, and torpid. Paralytic parts being beaten and stung with this herb, have regained their vig- our, and limbs which have lost their use by rheumatism. The juice is astringent, and is good in gravelly complaints, internal hae- morrhage, and spitting of blood. A decoction is excellent in scur- vy. The decoction is valuable in cases of bloody urine. The seeds and flowers of the nettle are as good a tonic as Peruvian bark in fevers and ague. About a drachm given in wine. A decoction of the root is most valuable in diarrhoea and dysentery, or laxity of the bowels and bloody flux. It should