BRO 82 BRO vert the humours from the chest to the bowels. Bronchitis from the acute some- times passes into the chronic. The person in such case should be well clothed, wear flannel next to the skin—should avoid exposure to cold and damp, and abstain from alcoholic drinks. Indeed, in many cases, bronchitis is caused by in- temperance, and also by much public speaking. When the cough is violent and fast, take expector- ants recommended in this book, and apply to the chest the Stimula- ting Om<»M0M£(whichsee)Dr.Beach advises the use of the Tar-bath exactly in the following way:— Add one ounce of common potash to one pound of tar, to deprive it of its pyroligneous acid. Mix well, and boil together in the open air for fifteen minutes—then to be kept gently simmering in the room of the patient. This may be done by placing it over a spirit lamp. The irritating plaster is very serviceable in Bronchial affections. {See Irritating Plaster.) The Americans recommend the smoking of Mullen leaves dried. During the inflammation attend- ant on this complaint, the diet must be simple and soothing; as gruels, sago, rice, tapioca, arrow- root, &c. The patient must keep in a warm room, and avoid cold and damp. During convalescence, tonics should be freely taken. Avoid stimulating drinks. BROOM. See Bobinson's Her- bal.—It is a valuable diuretic, and it may be safely administered. The green tops are to be infused, an ounce to a pint of boiling water, covered and placed near a warm fire from six to eight hours. Take a tea-cupful twice a day. A little spirits of nitre, and a few juniper berries will assist to cause the flow of urine. BRONZING PLASTER OF PARIS, &c.—First, give to the figures a coat of oil, or size var- nish, and when nearly dry, apply with a dabber of cotton or camel- hair pencil, any of the metallic bronze powders; or the powder may be placed in a little bag of muslin, and dusted over the sur- face, and afterwards finished off with a wad of linen. The surface must be afterwards varnished. BROTH that will keep.—Put part of a round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much wa- ter as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be used, give what fla- vour may be approved. BROTH, Beadily-made.—Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin saucepan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick, skim it nicely; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak; else cover it. Half an hour is suf- ficient for the whole process. Hu. BROTH, Strengthening.—Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herbs or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. BROWN BREAD ICE. Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small propor- tion in cream two or three hours, sweeten and ice it. BROWN BREAD PUDDING