PIM 312 drachms; simple syrup a sufficient quantity. In dropsical and asthmatic com- plaints, two or three of these pills may be taken twice a day, or of- tenor, if the stomach wilTbear it. PILLS, Stomachic.—Take ex- tract of gentian, two drachms; powdered rhubarb and vitriolated tartar, of each one drachm ; oil of mint, thirty drops; simple syrup a sufficient quantity. Three or four of these pills may he taken twice a day for invigor- ating the stomach, and keeping the body gently open. PILLS, Strengthening.—Take soft extract of bark and salt of steel, each a drachm. Make into pills. In disorders arising from exces- sive debility or relaxation of the solids, as the chlorosis, or green sickness, two of these pills may be taken three times a day. PILLS, Vegetable Laxative.— Take of extract of jalap, thirty grains; extract of colocynth, twen- ty grains; scammony, ten grains; oil of cloves, ten drops; powdered ginger, twenty grains. Make into 24 pills. Two for a dose. PIMPLES.—They generally arise from indigestion, or some in- ternal derangement; therefore the disease should be attacked at the root. Take the following:—Tinc- ture of cardamoms, 1 drachm; ip- ecacuanha wine, and a teaspoonful of flour of sulphur, with a glass of sherry or ginger wine. Take this on going to bed; repeat it every second or third night, and keep the bowels gently open. It is good to wash the face with warm water. Rub a sponge over old Windsor Soap, and dip in warm water and apply. Glycerine Soap is very useful.—A weak solution of sugar of lead, or sulphate of zinc, sometimes is effectual. PIP PINE APPLE COMPOTE.— Make a syrup with 1 lb. of sugar; peel, and cut two pine apples into slices; put them into the syrup, and boil them 12 minutes; take them out, and boil the syrup till it becomes thick; then pour it over the pine apple; when cold, it is ready for use. PINE APPLE CREAM.— Take about 10 ozs. of pine apple jam. Put a quart of cream into another basin, with the juice of a large lemon; whisk to a strong froth; mix this with the jam, stir- ring well. Mix with it, at the same time, a little isinglass dis- solved in a little warm milk and water. PINE APPLE, Jam and Jelly. —The same as Apple or Apricot Jam and Jelly, which see. PINE APPLE Marmalade.— Pare the pine apples. Grate them upon a dish. Then take the same weight of sugar as the pine apples weigh. Mix, and boil, skimming well. After all the scum is gone, stir the marmalade from an hour to an hour and a half. When it has boiled three quarters of an hour add a little thickly dissolved isinglass, and, if you like, a squeeze of lemon. Put into glasses, and make air-tight with brandy papers. PINE APPLE, Preserved.— May be done the same as Apple Preserve, and Apricot Preserve, which see. PINK, Indian.—An American plant. The root is anthelmintic, and combined with senna expels worms from the alimentary canal, especially the lumbrici, or round worms. It may be given in pow- der or infusion; the powder is the most efficacious. The dose for a child 3 or 4 years of age is 12 grains in powder, and 1 scruple in infu- sion. It lias no tasto. PIPPIN PUDDING.—Coddle