APE APE 20 or four hours.—As an Emetic, Ipecacuanha, and Lobelia, stand very high, especially the latter. ANTISCORBUTIC DRINK. —Take of cream of tartar three ounces, juniper berries four ounces, ginger in powder two drachms, and five pounds of sugar, boil in six gallons of water, after boiling half-an-hour, the whole is poured into a tub and allowed to ferment. It may be drunk in the quantity of from one to three pints daily, as soon as the fermentation commen- ces. ANTISEPTICS. — Medicines, counteracting putrescency. ANTISPASMODICS.—Medi- cines, abating spasm. ANTISPASMODIC TINC- TURE.—Tincture of Lobelia, 1 ounce; Tincture of Cayenne, 1 ounce; Compound Tincture of Lady’s Slipper, i ounce; oil of Aniseed, 20 drops.—Begin with a teaspoonful. This is an infallible remedy for spasms, fever, ague, and painful flatulence, and colic. ANTISPASMODIC CLYS- TER.—To half a pint of thin gruel, add half an ounce, or an ounce of the Foetid Tincture, and forty to sixty drops of Laudanum. This is very useful in spasmodic affections of the bowels, in convulsions, or in all hysteric complaints. ANTS.—A small quantity of green sage, placed where ants in- fest will cause them to disappear. Quicklime thrown on their nests, and then watered, will de- stroy them. Or a strong solu- tion of alum water. Or gas tar;—or lime from gas-works.— Gas tar painted round a tree an inch or two broad, will prevent ants and other insects from climb- ing trees, and will preserve tho fruit. APERIENT MIXTURE.— Senna leaves, 2 drachms; infuse in a quarter of a pint of boiling wa- ter, for half an hour, and add Ep- som salts, half an ounce; compound Tincture of Senna, an ounce. Three table-spoonfuls to bo taken every three hours. APERIENT ELECTUARY.- Senna, one ounce, powdered ; flour of sulphur, half an ounce ; ground ginger, two drachms; treacle, or honey, four ounces. Mix well. Dose about the size of a nutmeg morning and night. If not strong enough, add a small quantity of jalap. APERIENT FOR CHILD- REN.—Infusion of senna, one ounce; mint water, half an ounce; calcined magnesia, one scruple; manna, three drachms; syrup of roses, two drachms; (a solution of sugar will do). Mix and give in doses of one or two tea-spoonfuls at a time. APERIENT, INFANTS’.— Take of rhubarb, five grains; mag- nesia, three grains; white sugar, a scruple; manna, five grains; mix. Dose, varying from a piece half the size of a sweet-pea to a piece the size of an ordinary pea. APERIENT MIXTURE, Ab- ernelhy's.—Epsom Salts, half an ounce; infusion of Senna, six drachms; tincture of Senna, two drachms; spearmint water, an ounce; distilled water, two ounces; best manna, two drachms. Mix ; and take three or four table-spoon- fuls every morning, or every other morning.—This is a valuable mix- ture.—A decoction of Peruvian Bark will render it a Tonic Aper- ient. APERIENT PILLS. — Com- pound Rhubarb Pill, a scruple; ex- tract of Colocynth, half a drachm; castile soap, ten grains; oil of juni- per, three drops. Beat into a mass; make into ordinary sized pills. Take one at bed-time.