CAK CAK 90 water and salt. Take as much butter as paste, and work it well together. Bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish as you like. CAKES, Browning for.—J lb. of moist sugar, 2 ozs. of butter f add a little water. Simmer till brown. A little of this mixture will give a rich colour to cakes. CAKES, Cinnamon.—As the above, adding cinnamon accord- ing to taste. CAKE, Common. Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it 2 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of sugar, and J lb. of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of milk. By the ad- dition of 1 oz. of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. CAKE, COCOA-NUT SPONGE.—Grate a cocoa-nut, the outer part peeled off. A teaspoon- ful of salt, and half a grated nut- meg. A pound of white sugar. Beat and strain the yolks of six eggs; the whites cut to a stiff froth. One teaspoonful of essence of lem- on, and half a pint of flour. Mix the yolks, sugar, and other ingre- dients, except the whites and flour. Before putting it into the oven, add the whites, and flour gradual- ly, and gently mix it. Put it on buttered paper on tins, in a quick oven. Cover with paper lest the top harden quick. Gu. CAKES, Derby.— Mix 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of cur- rants, 1 lb. of flour, with an egg, in a paste. Roll it round in small cakes, and bake them on a tin. CAKES, Drop.—Mix 2 lbs. of flour; 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb .of currants, clean and dry; then wet into a stiff paste, with two eggs, a large spoonful each of orange-flower water, rose-water, sweet wine, and brandy; drop on a tin-plate floured; a very short time bakes them. CAKES, Ginger.—As above; but mixing with it half an ounce of ginger. CAKES, Lillypul.—Dry Jib. of flour, rub into it a little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few carraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin-plates. CAKES, Liliputian. Fine flour, J lb.; fine sugar, 6 ozs.; carbonate of ammonia, 4 drachms; essence of lemon, 8 drops; 3 eggs. Beat well the eggs, sugar, and fla- vouring, add the flour and ammo- nia, and mix all well. Drop on buttered tins. If the drop is as large as a shilling, allow it the space of a half-crown. Bake in a quick oven a short time. CAKES, Marlborough.—Beat eight eggs, and 1 lb. of pounded sugar three quarters of an hour, then by degrees mix in 1 lb. of fine flour well dried; add 2 ozs. of car- raway seeds, and bake in tin pans, in a brisk oven. CAKES, Orange-flower.—Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour; drain and put between napkins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised; then have ready boiled a pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, simmer until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. CAKE, Oswego.—Eight ounces of Oswego Prepared Corn; eight ounces of sugar; four- ounces of butter ; three eggs; a teaspoonful