BEE 51 BEE Spiced Serf is done the same way, adding- mace, cloves, and pop- per. All rubbed well into the beef. Spiced beef is not smoked, and it is generally boiled—slowly. BEEF Cooked in a French Manner.—Procure six pounds of beef, and a pound of fat bacon in thin strips; roll each strip sepa- rately, in a seasoning of parsley and pepper, and cover the beef thickly over with them. Place some veal bones at the botttom of a pan, with a cover, tie the larded beef round, and place it upon the bones. Then slowly pour over it two tablespoonfuls of rum, so as to penetrate the beef. Place a thin slice of bacon at the top, and vege- tables : viz. a few carrots, an onion, half a turnip, and one head of cel- ery. Put these into the pan, with pepper-eoms, and a bunch of sweet herbs in a bag, and pour over the whole a cupful of good gravy. Cover the pan well. Bake in a oven slowly for four hours; gar- nish, when cold, with jelly, and with the vegetables stewed with the meat. BEEF, called Sanders, to dress. —Mince beef, or mutton small, with onion, pepper, and salt; add a little gravy: put it into scallop- shells, or saucers, making them three-parts full, and till them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream; put a bit of butter or the top, and brown them in an oven, or before the fire. BEEF CAKES.—Pound some beef that is underdone with a lit- tle bacon, or ham; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlic: mix them well; and make into small cakes three inches long; and half as wide and thick; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. BEEF, to salt, Butch way,-Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with com- mon salt and salt-petre beaten fine; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it un- der a large weight; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down every day. BEEF en Miroton.—Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put them into a frying-pan with a j lb. of butter, and six onions, and a few cloves, turn the pan frequently, then mix a little broth,and some salt, pepper, and after a few boils, serve up hot. This dish is excel- lent and economical. BEEF, Fricandeau of.—Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is be- come tender, cover it close; skim the sauce well, and strain it; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve with sorrel-sauce. BEEF, Fricassee of cold Roast Beef.—Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and some strong broth: season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour : then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricasse into it. BEEF, to hash.—Do it the same as in the last receipt; only the