DYS 143 DYS by urine. Every twelve or four- teen minutes (that is, after every discharge) drink a tea-cupful. I have known a dropsy cured by this in twelve hours’ time. Or, one was cured by taking a drachm of nitre, every morning, in a little ale. Or, Tar-water drank twice a-day has cured many ; so has an infusion of juniper berries, roasted, and made into a liquor like coffee. Or, three spoonfuls of the juice of leeks, or elder leaves.—Tried. This cured the windy dropsy. Or, half a pint of decoction of butcher's broom, (intermixing pur- ges twice or thrice a-week.) The proper purge is ten grains of jalap with six of powdered ginger. It may be increased or lessened accor- ding to the strength of the patient. Or, of the decoction of the tops of oak boughs. This cured an in- veterate dropsy in fifteen days. Or, take senna, cream of tartar, jalap, half an ounce of each. Mix them and take a drachm every morning in broth. It usually cures in twenty days. This is nearly the same as Dr. Ward’s powder; He says it seldom fails, either in the watery or windy dropsy.— Rev. John Wesley. DYSENTERY, or Bloody Flux.—From the Greek; dus, pain- ful, and enteron, the bowels. It is inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the large intestines, espe- cially the colon. It is attended by frequent bloody stools, straining, nausea, long attempts at evacua- tion, and often great pain. There is loss of appetite, strength, and great lowness of spirits. The evacuations increase, and become more foetid. It often ends in death. It is caused by obstructed perspiration, morbid humours, un- wholesome diet, night air, damp beds, wet clothes, intemperance, and infection, in close habitations, prisons, cells, &c. It is very preva- lent in tropical climates. To cure, give gentle emetics; and mild purgatives, if needful. The Neutralizing Mixture (which see) is of great efficacy—a table- spoonful per hour. It will neu- tralize the acidity of the stomach, relieve the spasms, &c., and effect a wondrous change. Should in- flammation continue, give an in- jection; as, milk, half a pint; mucilage of slippery elm bark, half a pint; treacle, quarter pint, olive oil, half a wine glassful; and a tea spoonful of salt. This affords great relief. Keep up a gentle perspiration by the Sudorific Pow- ders, or by the application of hot bricks, as before stated. See also Diaphoretic Poivder. If there be local pain, foment with a decoction of vinegar, hops, tansy, horehound, and catnep. Give warm diluents, and mucilaginous drinks, and if putresence appears, give yeast in a decoction of logwood. The follow- ing has been recommended:— Prepared chalk, f drachm; com- pound powder of gum dragon, 2k drachms, aromatic confection, 1 drachm; tincture of catechu, and of kino, 2 drachms each; lauda- num, | drachm; aromatic spirit of ammonia, If drachm ; and cinna- < mon water 3 or 4 ozs. Dose two table spoonfuls every three hours. Or, simmer I oz. of blackberry root bark, and two ounces of Rasp- berry leaves in a quart of water for 40 minutes, strain and add If ozs. of tincture of myrrh, and a little sugar. Take a wine glassful every half hour. It seldom fails. . Butter just churned is said to be a sure cure; it must be unsalted, and clarified over the fire. Two table-spoonfuls several times a day. The following is said to be an un- failing remedy; good vinegar, and as much salt as it will dissolve.