POU 330 POU POTATO YEAST.—Boil, and skin, and mash mealy potatoes. Mix hot water to make them as thin as pudding batter. Add to each lb. of potatoes 2 ozs. of treacle. When just warm, stir in for every lb. of potatoes two table-spoonfuls of yeast. Keep it warm till it has done fermenting, and in a day it will be ready for use. POULTICE.—Take 4 ozs. of crumb of bread, a pinch of elder flowers, and camomile; boil them in equal quantities of vinegar and water. Or, take linseed flour, and the dregs of ale or porter bar- rels, slightly boiled. It always keeps soft from the oiliness of the linseed, and the yeasty deposit of the malt liquor is both cooling and sweetening. Poultices are designed to soften and relax any swelling, and allay pain and inflammation, to ripen tumours or swellings, and to cleanse inflamed and gangrenous sores, ulcers, &e. Always remove a poul- tice when it becomes dry; the place must be well washed in warm ley water, and a fresh poultice applied. The best Poultice for every pur- pose is the Slippery Elm Bar];; it may be made with warm milk and water, or with soap-ley. If tinc- ture of myrrh be added, it is valu- able in boils, ulcers, carbuncles, &c. POULTICE for a FESTER. —Boil bread in lees of strong beer; apply the poultice in the general manner. This has saved many a limb from amputation. POULTRY, to feed.—11 As I suppose you keep poultry, I may tell you that it has been ascertain- ed that if you mix with their food a sufficient quantity of egg-shells or chalk, which they eat greedily, they will then lay, ccctcris paribus, twice or thrice as many eggs as be- fore. A well-fed fowl is disposed to lay a vast number of eggs, but cannot do so without the material for the shells, however nourishing in other respects her food may be; indeed, a fowl fed on food and wa- ter free from carbonate of lime, and not finding any in the soil, or in the shape of mortar, which they often eat off the wall, would lay no eggs at all with the best will in the world.”—Professor Gregory. POUND CAKE.—Take 1 lb. each of flour, sifted loaf sugar, and currants; the rind of two lemons grated; mix all together by rub- bing them between the hands; (hen put 1 lb. of butter into a wooden bowl; place it often before the fire, if the weather is cold; when the butter is soft, beat it up with the hand till it is like a cream; break 10 or 12 eggs into a deep pan; whisk till quite frothy; put one- third of them to the butter; and beat up till well mixed; then put in half of what is left, and mix it till it sticks to the bowl; then put in the remainder, and mix it well up; when it sticks to the bowl, it is well mixed and light; then put in the flour, &c., and mix well to- gether. Have cake hoops, or moulds papered, and put into the oven, the heat of which must be moderate. The rind of a lemon, shred very fine, may be added. PO UND CAKE, a good one.— Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same of sifted sugar, mix them, and a few cloves, a little nutmeg, and cinna- mon, in fine powder together; then by degrees work the ingredients into the butter and eggs. "When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some carraways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven.