142 DEN DIA ing six patients, between five and fifteen years of age, for some time with ether, to their manifest ad- vantage. An eminent physician says,— “Take sassafras oil, five drops; sweet oil, £ oz. Mix, and drop in- to the ear once or twice a day.” He says that this seldom fails.— —Or, saturate a little cotton wool •with tincture of Lobelia, and in- sert twice a day. DELIRIUM TREMENS.— This is the disease of drunkards, and those who take narcotics, as opium, &c. It may be called “ the brain fever of drunkards.” The person is tremulous, has nausea, vomiting, and wakefulness, rest- lessness ; he raves, and imagines snakes, demons, &c., are about him. This disease doubtless arises from extreme stimulus of the brain. To cure.—First allay the par- oxysm, calm and support the ner- vous system, by giving brandy and other spirits. The redness of the face, and the pulsation of the ar- teries, heart, &c., indicate deter- mination of blood to the head. Equalize the circulation by bath- ing the feet and legs in warm ley- water; then apply mustard plas- ters to the feet and nape of the neck. Give a purge; and now and then a cupful of valerian scull- cap, or strong hop tea, or from 10 to 20 drops of laudanum. Emetics are very useful, and may be given in the same kind of spirits the pa- tient has been accustomed to take. A strong decoction of wormwood is successfully used in American hospitals. DEMULCENTS. — Medicines moistening, softening, and abating irritation in a part. DENTIFRICE, Indian.—Pro- cure six betel nuts from a drysalt- ery, and place them in a charcoal fire, until they become white hot. When they are cold, place them in a mortar, and reduce them to fine owder. Deposit in boxes for use. t may be scented wtth orange flower water or extract of orris root. This tooth powder is prized for its antiseptic efficacy, dispelling all impurities of the teeth and gums, and preserving the enamel from corrosion. DENTRIFICE, Invaluable.— Dissolve nearly a tea-spoonful of finely powdered borax in half a pint of tepid water; add to it 10 drops of tincture of myrrh. Or prepared chalk, 1 oz.; camphor, I drachm. Mix. Dissolve the cam- phor in a little spirits of wine. Or, Cuttlefish, 3 ozs.; cream of tarter, £ oz.; orris root, £ oz. Pow- der all fine. Mix, and add 10 drops of tincture of myrrh. DEPILATORY. — To remove superfluous Hairs, satuarato the part well with fine oil. In about an hour, wipe it off; then take finely powdered quick lime, 1 oz.; powdered orpiment, I drachm; mix with white of egg; and apply with a small brush. DETERGENTS. Deterge means to cleanse. Detergents re- move unwholesome matters adher- ing to, and obstructing the vessels; usually applied to foul ulcers, &c., as tincture of myrrh, honey, alum, water, turpentine, &c. DEVONSHIRE SOUP—Lean beef, 2 lbs.; six onions, six pota- toes, one carrot, one turnip, lialf a pint of split peas, one gallon of water, a head of celery, and a British herring, with salt and pep- per. When boiled, pass through a sieve; add spinach and celery boiled, dried mint, and toasted bread. DIABETES. — An excessive discharge of urine. Sassafras, 2 oz.; guiacum, 1 oz.; liquorice root, 3 ozs.; coriander