336 PUN QUA It ought, however, to be very sparingly used. It is necessarily an interrupter ; it breaks in upon the regular course of the mind: it tends to divert the attention from the main object of the sentence. Interrogation is used when a question is asked; as, How art thou ? Exclamation or Admiration, de- notes any sudden emotion of the mind ; as, Alas! I am undone! Apostrophe, (’ ) or mark of eli- sion, indicates that a letter is left out; as, lov’d for loved, don’t for do not. It is used properly enough in poetry, but should never be used in prose. “ It ought to be called the mark not of elision, but of laziness and vulgarity, except when used to denote the possessive case of Nouns.” Hyphen (- ) is used to connect words or parts of words; as in tea- pot, water-rat. The Bash marks a break in the sentence, or an abrupt turn, though it is occasionally used merely to disjoin a parenthetical clause; as, “If thou art he—but O how fallen! “ Peter and John—for they were together — stood up before the council.” Paragraph If is used to denote the beginning of a new subject. Section (§) is sometimes used instead of the word section. PUT, Game of— Put is usually played by two persons, with a complete pack of cards. In this game the cards rank differently from all others, the tray being the best; next the deuce, then ace, king, queen, knave, and so on in the usual order. After cutting for deal, &c., at which the best put card wins, three cards by one at a time are given to each player; and the game is played in the following way. If the non-dealer throws up his cards he looses a point; if he plays, and the dealer does not lay down another to it, he gains a point; but should the dealer either win the same, pass it, or lay down one of equal value, forming what is called a tie, the non-dealer is still at liberty to “put,” that is, play or not, and his opponent only gains a point. Then if both parties agree to go on, whoever gains all the tricks, or two out of the three, wins five points, which constitute the game. If each player obtains one trick, and the third is a tie, then neither party must be al- lowed to score. Four-hand put differs only in that any two of the players give each their best card to his partner, who then lays out one of his own, and the game is then played as two-handed put. If the dealer turns up any of his adversary’s cards, another deal may be demanded, but when he shows his own, he is to abide by them. Either party saying “I Put,” must stand his cards or pay the st^kss PUTTY, to soften.—Apply fre- quently to the putty diluted sul- phuric acid, or a little nitric, or muriatic acid, and in a short time it will become so soft, as to be easily removed. QUADRILLE, game of—This game is played by four persons, and only forty cards are used, the tens, nines, eights, being discard- ed from the pack. The deal is made by giving each player in rotation three cards at a time, for any two rounds, and once four cards at a time, beginning with the right hand player, who is the elder hand. The following is the cor- rect way of playing this game.