288 PAL PAL sins small, and put them to the water, to stand ten days, stirring now and then; boil the water an hour before it is put to the raisins, and let it cool; in ton days strain the liquor, adding a little yeast with a sprig of dried wormwood. Stop close, and in two or three months bottle it, adding brandy, as much as you please. PALPITATION op the HEART.—This is a very strong pulsation of the heart, sometimes only occasional, but often contin- ual. It arises from morbid irrita- bility of the heart; it is often purely nervous, caused, in some cases, by the disordered state of the stomach and bowels, by alcholic drinks, by excessive venery, by extreme grief, and disappointments preying upon the spirits, all tend- ing to weaken the nervous system. It is sometimes a symptom of other diseases, as indigestion, hysteria. The beating is frequently so violent as to be heard at a considerable distance, and sometimes the effects of the increased action of the heart may be seen on the outside of the clothes. The pulse at the same time is very irregular, and often intermittent. Palpitation of the heart is not to be neglected, as it may lead to serious consequences. The treatment of this disease is much similar to that for indiges- tion. The treatment must depend on the state of the body; for pal- pitation may be the effect of in- creased vitality, or fulness, or of debility and relaxation, &e. If the system be in a plethoric state, (ful- ness) aperients and a spare diet must be enjoined. Avoid all stim- ulants. In case of general debil- ity, 20 drops of tether, -with a tear spoonful of tincture of castor, in a wine-glassful of the infusion of valerian, two or three times a day. When it arises from disease of the heart, or of the large vessels, then avoid plethora, much bodily exer- tion, full meals, and excesses of every kind. The following mix- ture is valuable:— Tincture of henbane, 2 ozs.; I tiucturo of foxglove, 3 drachms; ' sweet spirit of nitre, \ oz.; mix. | A teaspoonful and a half to be ta- j ken two or three times a day in a glass of water. If the action of the heart is very I violent, apply a mustard plaster to the left side, or strong hop and ! poppy head fomentations. Two ! grains of hemlock powder may also be taken every seven or eight hours. After the cessation of pal- pitation, take tonics, sponge the breast with tepid or cold water, and gentle exercise in the open air. PALPITATION of thb HEART cured by Soda-water. —A lady, about forty years of age, had suffered twelve years from per- iodical attacks of palpitation of the heart, so violent as to shake the bed on which the patient lay. During one attack, feeling thirsty, she expressed a desire for some soda-water. No sooner had she swallowed the first draught than her palpitation left her, and recur- red no more until the period of the next attack. As soon as it com- menced, she sent for her medical attendant, and told him what had occurred a month previously, and requested to be allowed to try the same remedy a second time. He consented, but, wishing to ascer- j tain which of the ingredients of the soda-water had relieved the complaint, he gave her a dose of citric acid by itself. This had no effect. He then gave her a dose of carbonate of soda, which also foil- ed. He then mixed the powders, and gave her some ordinary soda- water, placing his hand at the same time upon her heart. The