100 CAU CAY is in a vertical line with, the but- tock, both in feet. Multiply tho square of tho girt, expressed in foot, by five times tho length, and divide tho product by 21; tho quo- tient is the weight, nearly, of the four quarters, in stones of 14 lbs. avoiidupoise. For example, if the girt be (ij feet, and the length 5j feet, we shall liavo multiplied by 6| equal to 42£, and 5j multi- plied by 5 equal to 26j ; then 42 j multiplied by 26J is equal to 1,109 l-16th, and this divided by 21, gives 52 4-5 ths stones nearly, or 52 stones lllbs. It is to be observed, however, that in very fat cattle the four quarters will be about one- twentieth more, while in those in a very lean state they will be one- twentieth less than the weight ob- tained by the rule.- The four- quarters are little more than half the weight of the living animal; the skin weighing about the eigh- teenth part, and tho tallow about the twelfth part of the whole. CAULIFLOWERS, to boil.— Strip the leaves which you do not intend to use, and put the cauli- flowers into salt and water some time to force out snails, worms, &c. Boil them twelve minutes on a drainer in plenty of water, then add salt, and boil five or six mi- nutes longer. Skim well while boiling. Take out, and drain. Serve with melted butter, or a sauce made of butter, cream, pep- per, and salt. CAULIFLOWER, to fry.— Wash as before. Boil twenty or thirty minutes ; cut it into small portions, and cool. Dip the por- tions twice into a batter made of flour, milk, and egg, and fry them in butter. Servo with gravy. CAULIFLOWER, with Par- mesan. —Prepare the cauliflower as before, and cut the stalk, so that tho flower will stand upright two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce; stew till done enough, a few minutes; then dish it with the sauce round, and grate parme- san over it. Brown it with a salamander. CAULIFLOWERS, to pickle. —Take the best and firmest cauli- flowers. Separate the flowers into small parts, spread them on a dish, sprinkle salt over them for a few days. Then put them in jars, and pour boiling salt and water upon them, and let them stand all night; then drain them on a hair sieve, and jar them again, and fill up with the best vinegar, in which you have simmered mace, long pepper, white pepper-corns, &c. CAU LI FLO WE It, with Queen's Sauce.—Make the sauce with a bit of ham, fillet of veal, cut into small dice, a little butter, chopped pars- ley, shallots, and a clove of garlick; soak this for a time on the fire; then add a few spoonfuls of jelly broth, and half a pint of cream ; pour part off into the table-dish ; place the cauliflower therein, boil- ed properly, and the remainder of the sauce over it; garnish with bread crumbs, and colour it in tho oven with a little butter on it. CAULIFLOWER, with white Sauce.—Parboil it; then cut into nice pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, salt, pepper; simmer half an hour; then add a little cream, butter, and flour; shake; simmer a few minutes; serve. CAYENNE, good Soluble.—AM cooks acknowledge the supremacy of Cayenne among tho peppers. It is thus made:—Infuse 1 oz. of genuine Cayenne in boiling water, enougli to cover it; let it stand on the hob for a couple of hours, and then pour the liquor through a fine sieve upon 1 oz. of salt in a