198 HOA HON lump of sugar, which must he kept in the mouth till dissolved, and then gently swallowed. If you press firmly on the end of the collar-bone next the throat, the hiccuping will be stopped. Or hold your breath as long as you can. If it should prove obstinate, and become spasmodic, a teaspoon- ful of ether, 8 drops of laudanum, in a glass of cold water, is the best remedy.—It is often removed by startling a person. HICCUP.—Swallow a mouth- ful of water, stopping the mouth and ears.—Tried. Or, take any thing that makes you sneeze. Or, three drops of oil of cinnamon on a lump of sugar.— Wesley. HIPS, Conserve of.—Cut off the stalks of ripe Hips; take out all the seeds ; throw hot water upon them, and let them stand till soft enough to be sieved; mix the pulp with the same weight of su- gar, without boiling. Good for consumptive coughs, hoarseness. Where the cough is very trouble- some, with mental depression, add a few drops of laudanum, and of tincture of valerian. HOARSENESS. Rub the soles of the feet, before the fire, with garlic and lard well beaten together, overnight. The hoarse- ness will be gone next morning.— Or, take a pint of cold water, lying down. Or, swallow slowly the juice of radishes. Or, dry nettle roots in on oven; then powder them finely, and mix with an equal quantity of treacle. Take a teaspoonful twice a-day. Or, boil a large handful of wheat bran in a quart of water, strain, and sweeten it with honey. Drink frequently.— Wesley. HOARSENESS. — Frequently gargle with a decoction of sage. Or, a solution of alum. Or, a solution of gum kino. Or chew catechu. Or take two or three times a day a teaspoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in a wine-glassful of weak ginger and water. Or take occasionally a tablespoonful of the decoction of horse-radish. Or dip a piece of flannel in brandy, or in brandy and salt; and apply to the chest; cover with a dry flannel; wear it all night. Boiled onions are sometimes useful in colds, hoarseness, &c. Or, take spermaceti and sugar candy, equal parts, and make them into a fine powder. A piece of ancho- vy has been known to restore the proper tone of the voice. HOARSENESS OF SING- ERS.—A celebrated singer states, that the greatest benefit is deriv- able from taking, during five or six days, twice a-day, five or six drops of nitric acid in a glass of sugared water. If from use the acid loses its efficacy, the dose may be in- creased to ten or twelve drops. HONEY balsam of.—To 1 lb. of honey add a teacupful of vine- gar ; boil and skim; when cold stir in 1 oz. of elixir of paregoric, and bottle. This is first-rate for a cough: dose, one table-spoonful three times a day. HONEY OF ROSES.—Dried red rose buds, 4 ozs.; clarified honey, 5 lbs.; distilled boiling water, 3 pints; macerate the rose leaves in the water for 6 hours; then mix the honey with the strained liquor, and boil to a syrup. Good for sore mouths, &e. HONEY OF VIOLETS.— Violet flowers, the bottoms chip- ped off, 2 lbs.; infuse in 2 quarts of water; boil up, and add 2 lbs. of honey; boil to a syrup ; press the liquid part through a linen cloth. HONEY WATER. —Powder 2 ozs. of volatile salts; dissolve it