ALM ALM 16 be claimed, or the extra cards drawn out. But should even a single card have been played, then there must be a new deal. With strict players the adver- sary may score a point whenever his opponent does not trump or follow suit; and each calculates his game without looking at the trick, which, when erroneously set up, must not be taken down; but also the antagonist scores a point instead. ALMOND CAKES.—Rub 2 ozs. of butter into 5 ozs. of flour, 5 ozs. powdered lump sugar; beat an egg with half the sugar, then put it to the other ingredients. Add 1 oz. blanched almonds, and a little almond flavour; roll them in your hand the size of a nutmeg, and sprinkle with fine lump sugar. They should be lightly baked. ALMOND CAKE.—Bake it in a mould, or baking hoop; bruise 1 lb. of sweet almonds very fine, and 12 bitter almonds, adding a little whites of eggs, to hinder them from oiling; then put to it a lb. of fine sugar powder by de- grees, two whole eggs, and lemon peel, finely chopped or rasped; when this is properly mixed, add 8 eggs, the yolks and whites first beat up separately: stir it, and mix it all properly: pour into the mould, to bake about an hour; serve it in its natural colour. (Glaze with white of egg, and frost with fine loaf sugar.) Hu. ALMOND CHEESECAKES. —Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoon- ful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten; mix all as quickly as possible; put into very small pattypans; and bake in a pretty warm oven under twenty minutes. Another way.—Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, with a little orange-flower or rose-wa- ter ; then stir in the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, well beaten, five ounces of butter warmed, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice; sweeten with fine powdered sugar. When well mixed, bake in a deli- cate paste, in small pans. Another way. — Press the whey from as much curd as will make two dozen small ones; then put it on the back of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds, pounded with as much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet: mix with it the rind of a lemon grated, and a glass of brandy. Put a puff paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. ALMOND CUSTARD.-Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a spoonful of water; beat a pint of cream with two spoonfuls of water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds; stir over a slow fire till of a proper thickness; but don’t boil. Pour into cups. ALMOND ICEING for Bride- calcs and other Cakes.—Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong froth; beat 1 lb. of Jordan almonds very fine with rose-water; mix them with the eggs lightly to- gether, 1 lb. of common loaf sugar beat very fine, and put in by de- grees. When your cake is enough take it out, and lay your iceing on: then put it in to brown. Bf ALMOND PUDDING, Small. —Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful