344 RAB RAB and tie them in separate cloths, and boil half an hour. Have ready a white sauce, made of veal gravy, a little anchovy, the juice of half a lemon ; take a a lb. of butter, roll- ed in flour, so as to make the sauce pretty thick; stir while the flour is dissolving; beat the yolk of an egg; add some thick cream, nut- meg, and salt; mix it with the gravy, and simmer it a little over the fire: but do not boil. Pour over the rabbits. RABBITS, to pot.—Cut up two or three young, but full grown ones, and take the leg bones off at the thigh; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after sea- soning them with pepper, mace, cayenne, salt, and allspice, all m very tine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the headsand the carcases, but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan, then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat well. RABBITS, to roast. — Baste them with butter, and dredge them with flour ; half an hour will do them at a brisk tire ; and if small, twenty minutes. Take the livers with a bunch of parsley, boil them, and chop them very fine together; melt some butter, and put half the liver and parsley into the butter; pour it into the dish, and garnish the dish with the other half; roast them of a fine light brown. RABBIT, to taste like a hare.— Choose one that is young, but full grown; hang it in the skin three or four days; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a season- ing of black pepper and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for 40 hours, then stuff it and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. RABBITS, various modes of dressing.—Roasted with stuffing and gravy, liko hare; or without stuffing; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in melted but- ter, pepper, and salt; or larded. Boiled, and smothered with onion sauce; the butter to be melt- ed with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver- sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed for chickens. In a pie, as chicken, with force- meat, &c. In this way they are excellent when young. RABBIT, Victoria.—Toast bread nicely on both sides, and butter. Have ready the following; nice ham, Cheshire cheese, and half boiled eggs, very finely chop- ped and intimately mixed together, with a little popper and mustard; ut into a Dutch oven, and place efore the fire ; spread it on the toast. It is delicious. Onions, if you like, may be substituted for the eggs. RABBIT PIE.—Cut up two young rabbits; season with pep-