APO 21 APO APERIENT PILLS, to pro- mote Digestion. Aloes, forty grains; extract of gentian, twenty- fonr grains; extract of colocynth, one drachm; oil of aniseed, suffi- cient to make into pills. Take from one to three when necessary. APERIENT TONIC MIX- TURE.—Boil two ounces of bruised dandelion roots, and one ounce of powdered liquorice, in one quart of water down to one pint; then add Epsom Salts, four drachms ; Sulphate of Iron, four grains; Elixir of Vitriol, thirty- five drops. This mixture is aperi- ent, and does not debilitate. APERIENT, TONIC.—Take of Epsom salts one ounce, diluted sulphuric acid, one drachm, infu- sion of quassia chips, half an im- perial pint, compound tincture of rhubarb, two drachms. Half a wine-glassful for a dose—to be taken twice a day. APOPLEXY.—It is a sudden deprivation of all the senses, and of voluntary motion, generally the effect of compression of the brain; which, when produced by an effu- sion of blood, or a distension of the internal vessels of the head, from an accumulation of blood, is termed Sanguineous Apoplexy; and when caused by an effusion of serum, which occurs chiefly in dropsical habits, Serous Apoplexy. APOPLEXY, SANGUINE- OUS.— The short necked, the indo- lent, great eaters and great drink- ers, are its victims! The fit is gen- erally preceded by a sense of weight in the head, and giddiness; fre- quent head-ache ; bleeding at the nose ; redness of the eyes ; imper- fect vision; ringing in the ears; numbness in the extremities; weakness of the knees; faltering of the voice; drowsiness, and dis- turbed sleep. It is brought on by whatever hurries the circulation, so as to increase the afflux of blood into the vessels of the head; such as violent exercises; passions of the mind ; much straining ; whatever impedes the free return of blood from the head; as a tight ligature, or handkerchief round the neck; or lying with the head lower than the chest. If the fit has lasted long, i. e. two or three days ; if the breath- ing is very laborious and loud ; if the patient is far advanced in life; it is probable that the disease will prove fatal. A second attack is always of more danger than a first; and when apoplexy comes upon a patient who has had frequent at- tacks of epilepsy, it very common- ly proves fatal. Treatment:—Remove the cause, that is, pressure upon the brain— apply blisters to the head, and also between the shoulders—and lessen the determination of the blood to the head by increasing the circula- tion in the extremities; i. e. stim- ulating the feet and hands by Mustard Poultices, and by empty- ing the lower intestines by a clys- ter, made of Epsom salts, castor oil, salt, and aloes. Also give sudorifics, or medicines to promote sweat. If the attack takes place soon after a full meal, an emetic should be given; Lobelia. See my Herbal under that article;—Rob- inson's Herbal. Keep the body nearly in an erect posture to pro- mote the return of the blood from the head. APOPLEXY, SEROUS. — Compression of the brain, produc- ing apoplexy, is seldom caused by an effusion of the serous part of the blood. When it occurs in a drop- sical person, it may be referred to an effusion of serum, which will re- quire the aforesaid means. Cordials are proper and may be given. It is in consequence of extreme de-