420 TRI TOO 10. Warm water and salt kept in the mouth for some time, and renewed, is a good remedy. TOOTHACHE, to prevent.— Wash the mouth with cold water every morning, and rince them after every meal. Or, rub the teeth often with tobacco ashes.— Wesley. TOOTH POWDERS. — The following are recommended:— 1. Take | oz. of powdered gum myrrh, 1 oz. of powdered bark, 2 drachms of cream of tartar, 1 drachm of hole ammoniac, mix in a mortar. A constant use of this powder will cause the teeth to ob- tain a beautiful whiteness, and preserve them from decaying, and prevent the toothache. 2. Peruvian bark, charcoal, ar- menian hole, of each, § oz.; pow- dered cinnamon, and bicarbonate of soda, of each, J oz.; oil of cin- namon, 4 drops. Mix. 3. One, to cure a bad breath.— Cream of tartar and chalk, each \ oz.; myrrh, powdered charcoal, 2 drachms; powdered orris root, § a drachm; powdered Peruvian hark, 2 drachms. Mix well to- gether.—Rubbing the gums with salt occasionally destroys the ani- malcule which probably cause de- cay and aching of the teeth. 4. Pounded charcoal very fine, 2 ozs.; Peruvian hark, 1 oz.; cam- phor, J oz. 5. Prepared chalk, orris root, and charcoal, powdered, equal parts. 6. Coffeee newly ground fine, mixed with charcoal, is a first rate powder. Scent as you like. 7. Powdered cuttle-fish, 8 ozs.; powdered charcoal, 2 ozs.; burnt alum, 1 oz.; powdered myrrh, 1 oz. Mix. TOOTH WASHES.—Tincture of myrrh, diluted with water, and camphorated spirits. Or, a so- lution of borax and camphorated spirit combined. TRACING PAPER.—Use Canada balsam dissolved in spirits of wine, and a little turpentine. Apply with a soft brush, or sponge, and hang up to dry. The best tissue paper should be used. TREACLE BEER.—Take 4 lbs. of treacle, 2 ozs. of hops, and \ oz. of ginger bruised. Pour up- on the same 4 gallons of boiling water. Ferment with a small cup- ful of yeast. TREACLE PARKIN.—Oat- meal, 4 lbs.; flour, 1 lb.; butter, 1 lb.; treacle, 4 lbs.; sugar, 1 lb.; ginger, 1 j oz.; sweet pepper, 1 oz.; carraway seeds, 1 oz.; carbonate of soda, 3 teaspoonfuls. Add half a cupful of cream, which with the treacle, sugar, and butter, must be well rubbed into the meal and flour. Warm the treacle and su- gar in the oven, and mix well.— See Parkin. TREACLE POSSET.—Boil a small basinful of milk, and put in treacle sufficient to curdle it. Drink it on retiring to bed. It generally cures a severe cold by producing profuse perspiration, and dispelling the fever of the patient. Gu. TREACLE PUDDING.— Make the paste as for other boiled puddings, adding treacle, and small raisins, (or without,) according to taste. Boil in a cloth three hours. Serve with sweetened melted but- ter. TRIFLE, to make.—Lay maca- roons and ratafia drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up; then pour on them cold rich custard and some rice flour. It must stand two or three inches thick ; on that put a layer of rasp- berry-jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the day before, of rich cream, the