MEN MEN 251 ulate the bowels, if costive, by one of the aperients, page 20, 21. Hops ( boiled in vinegar, and applied to , the abdomen, often give relief; so • does the tincture of black cobosb, ■ about half a teaspoonful three times a day in a little sweetened water. Profuse Menstruation. — The , flow of the menses is considered I immoderate when it recurs more frequently, when it continues long- er, or when, during the ordinary • continuance, it is more abundant - than is usual with the same person i at other times. It is not, however, i every inequality that is to be con- : sidered a disease, but only those • deviations, that are excessive in i degree, which are permanent, and I induce a manifest state of debility. When a large flow of the menses i has been preceded by head-ache, i giddiness,or difficulty of breathing, I and has been ushered in by a cold shivering, with much pain in the { back and loins, frequent pulse, heat, and thirst, it may then be considered preternaturally large; and the face becomes pale, the pulse weak, an unusual debility is (felt on exercise, the breathing hur- ried by much motion, and the : back is pained in an erect posture; i the extremities are frequently cold, I and in the evening the feet swell. :: General nervousness, with affec- tions of the stomach, frequent ; faintings, and a weakness of mind, liable to strong emotion from slight causes, when suddenly presented, are also attendant symptoms. It is produced by a preternatural ) determination of blood to the womb, or a plethoric state of the body, i from high living, strong liquors, i! over-exertion, (particularly danc- iing,) violent passions of the mind, application of cold to the feet, fre- quent abortions or child-bearing, and whatever will induce great laxity, as living much in warm chambers, and especially drinking much of warm enervating liquors, such as tea and coffee. Treatment.—Remove immedi- ately all exciting causes of this disease. The flux must not be stopped, but moderated; avoid an erect posture, and external heat, as warm chambers, and soft beds; by using a light, cool, and unexciting diet; by obviating costiveness, as before directed; or use castor oil and lenitive electuary; the exter- nal and internal use of astringents, to constringe the vessels of the womb, as the application of cloths sprinkled with vinegar and water over the region of the womb; and three table-spoonfuls of the fol- lowing mixture every three or four hours :—Red rose-leaves, § oz.; infuse in a pint of boiling water, till cold; then strain; add elixir of vitriol, 60 drops, tincture of rha- tany root, 1 oz. A gentle emetic may be of great service. See page 155. The Diaphoretic Powder al- so, is of great service in this case. An injection of cold water into the rectum may check an immoderate flow. Obstructed Menstruation.—It is often caused by exposure to cold during the menstrual discharge, to wet feet, cold bathing, great men- tal fear and anxiety, &c., just be- fore the periodical time of discharge. The obstruction injures the health, if it continues two or three periods. Give the Composition Powder, page 119, or the Diaphoretic Pow- der, page 143., when the patient is in bed, and place bricks covered with vinegar and water cloths to the feet and sides, or give the Va- pour Bath. Take also Peruvian bark infused in port wine. In short, use the same means as prescribed under Chlorosis. Take also the Female Pill, page 163.