CHO 112 CHR the Neutralizing Mixture, (which see). If vomited, repeat the dose, and it will soon produce a bene- ficial effect, subduing the irritation, nausea, vomiting, and passing through the alimentary canal, changing its contents to the most healthy state. It is useful to bathe the feet in hot water and salt, and when the disease is violent, to give a vapour bath; and to check the vomiting, salt in vinegar or brandy. To allay the pain, foment the belly and breast with the fol- lowing;—Cayenne pepper, k oz., spirits of wine, £ a pint, vinegar a gill. Simmer a few minutes; then add a tea-spoonful of tincture of opium, and two table-spoonfuls of turpentine. Apply flanmnels dipped in it warm to the stomach. Hops and camomile flowers, sim- mered in vinegar, make an excel- lent fomentation. The drink should be toast and water. Milk thickened with arrow-root, tapioca sago, or slippery-elm, may be taken as food. In the ASIATIC CHOLERA, there is a total suppression of bile, and a profuse cold, clammy sweat over the body; the cramps become fearful, the stomach and bowels are emptied by vomit, &c.—and exhaustion becomes apparent, gid- diness, deafness, sinking of the eyes and nostrils, blueness of the skin, lips and nails; weakness of voice, &c., are often fatal symp- toms. To cure tho same, as for English Cholera, but more active. Give the Neutralizing Mixture; and this injection;—Bogberry, 3 drachms; Scullcap, 1 drachm; Slippery- Elm, 1 drachm ; Boiling water, £ a pint. Infuse ten minutes; then add two tea-spoonfuls of tincture of Myrrh, eight drops of Laudan- um, and a tea-spoonful of Carbon- ate of Soda. Foment as in English Cholera, or with the Rheumatic Liniment. Apply as hot as possible. Apply also fric- tion to the limbs; or apply hot bricks, wrapped in vinegar cloths, to the feet, legs, and sides. Give a tea-spoonful of the Anti-Cholera Drops every half hour, which see at the end of the book. The following Anti-Cholera Mixture is a sovereign remedy:— Tormentil Root, 1 ounce; Bay- 'J berry Bark, 1 ounce; Cayenne Pepper, \ ounce; Carbonate of Soda, £ ounce. Simmer forty minutes in three pints of water down to 1 quart. Strain, and add ■ Tinctnre of Myrrh, 2 ounces, and 1 drachm of Camphor, dissolved in spirits of wine. In the first attack of Cholera, give a wine-glassful; place the feet in hot salt and water, or mustard and water, and repeat the mixture every twenty minutes, and apply mustard plaster, and the hop poultice to the stomach. Rub freely the cramped and drawn parts of the body with boiled Cay- enne Pepper and Vinegar; and the effects will in most cases appear like magic. Such treatment has cured thousands upon thousands. CHOLERA IN INFANTS is treated in the same way as English Cholera, but in a milder, and more restricted manner. CHRISTMAS PUDDING.— Suet, 1-| lbs., minced small; cur- rants, 1J lbs.; raisins, stoned, j lb.; sugar, 1 lb.; ten eggs, a grated nutmeg; 2 ozs. of citron and lemon ; peel; 1 oz. of mixed spice, a tea- j spoonful of grated ginger, f lb. of bread crumbs, £ lb. of flour, 1 pint of milk, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Beat first the eggs, add half the milk, beat all together, and gradually stir in all the milk, then the suet, fruit, &c., and as much milk to mix it very thick. Boil in a cloth six or seven horns.