YOR YEL 453 nose, nostrils, &c. The whole body often exhibits a livid yellow. The causes may be contagion, the use of ardent spirits, marble- izing the liver, destroying diges- tion, &c. It may be caused by old, wet feet and clothes, obstruct- ed perspiration, &c. Treatment. — The first object must be to excite action in the stomach, bowels, liver, and skin. Give an emetic ; clear the bowels by a brisk purgative. Give the diaphoretic powder, and place the patient in the vapour bath, regu- lating the heat according to the strength of the patient. While in the bath let the patient drink halm, pennyroyal, or catnep tea. When he comes out of the bath, place him in a warm bed, well covered with blankets to produce perspiration. If he perspires, gradually lessen the covering. If vomiting prevails, give the neutralizing mixture, a table- spoonful every half hour till the vomiting ceases. If the stomach be very irritable, give with the neutralizing mixture a drachm of Epsom salts to each dose, in a lit- tle tea; if the vomiting does not abate, preserve with the medicine, and apply mustard plasters to the stomach and feet twice a day. Do not neglect aperients; for it is of the highest importance to promote the natural evacuations. Attend also to the skin. If dry, hot, and parched, give an infusion of boneset, to be drunk freely, to promote perspiration. If this should fail, give the Sudorific Powder, or the Sweating Drops till perspiration shall take place. Should they cause too much sick- ness, give lemonade or cream of tartar water. In the West Indies they effect a cure by drinking an infusion of boneset, by using the warm or vapour bath, and bathing the body with lemon juice and water, or warm vinegar and water. YELLOW FLUMMERY. — Take 2 ozs. of isinglass ; beat it; put it into a bowl, and pour a pint of boiling water upon it; cover it till cold, and add a pint of sherry; the juice of two lemons with the rind of one, and the yolks of 8 eggs. Heat well; sweeten; put it into a pan, and when it boils, strain it through an iron sieve. When nearly cold, put it into cups and moulds. YELLOW INK.—This ink is useful in drawing and making pen and ink sketches; it is prepared thus :—Take Persian berry liquor, If oz.; alum, f oz.; rain-water, as required, gum arabic, f oz. Boil the whole together ten minutes; then strain through fine muslin; when cold, it is fit for use. YELLOW WAX.—Yellow re- sin, 1 lb.; Burgundy pitch, If oz.; bees wax, If oz; mutton tallow, If oz. Melt all together; then add camphor, 2f drachms; olive oil, a tablespoonful; sassafras oil, 2 drachms; best rum, 2 table- spoonfuls. Mix well, and pour into a vessel of water, and knead it till it is cold. It acts as a good sticking plaster. It is useful in cuts, ulcers, sores, &c. It is very good for rheumatism ; and would be a sovereign remedy by the ad- dition of f oz. of cayenne, and f oz. of opium. YORKSHIRE CAKES.—See page 92. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.— Mix five spoonfuls of flour with a quart of milk, and three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing-dish, and stir it well.