203 HYP HYS : dared, it only requires one vapour bath, rapidly increased to 37 Cen- i tigrade, then slowly to 63; the patient must confine himself to his ; chamber until the cure is com- I plete. Dr. Buisson mentions i other curious facts. An American j had been bitten by a rattlesnake, r, about eight leagues from home; t wishing to die in the bosom of his c family, he ran the greater part of the way home, and going to bed ? perspired profusely, and the wound ! healed as any simple cut. The I hite of the tarantula is cured by | the exercise of dancing, the free [i perspiration dissipating the virus. If a young child be vaccinated and jj then be made to take a vapour : bath, the vaccine does not take. | Galignani. When first bitten, or when the symptoms are manifest, give a 5i dessert-spoonful of the anti-spas- ij modic tincture, and a mild injec- i tion. Then proceed to the vapour i bath, as hot as the patient can ; bear it. After the bath, give an ; emetic. The wound should be q cupped, and caustic potash applied •| afterwards. Apply a yeast poultice, ; and keep up the discharge. Add r a little powdered charcoal to the ’! poultice. Repeat the vapour bath and the injection every ten or > twelve hours. The diet should d be light and unstimulating; the i drink sudorific, or promoting per- i; spiration. Drink oft a decoction of >11 skullcap, and at night take sulphur I and cream of tartar. HYPOCHONDRIA or Melan- Acholly. — A disordered state of t mind caused by the debility of the >' nervous system. It is manifested B by lowness of spirits, inactivity, q shunning and dreading effort, fore- 0 boding of evil, fears without cause; i—physically by flatulency, eruc- ti tations, costiveness, pale urine, 'i palpitations, spasmodic pains in o various parts of the body, &c. Treatment.—First ascertain the causes of the disease, and try to remove them. As to medicine, give an emetic; if the disease is obstinate, repeat it; give also ano- dyne aperients and injections. For an hypochondriac, the Dyspep- tic Till is very efficacious, taken at night. Also the Nervous Till. Treat the patient kindly and en- couragingly. Harshness will ag- gravate the disease. The great thing is to arouse the nervous energy from its lethargy; and this must be effected as above, and also by giving tonics, light and diges- tible food, open air exercise, sea air, change of scenes, travelling and lawful amusements. An aged minister once said that “weak nerves are the devil’s fiddle strings, and he always plays well on them.” Should this disease arise from affections of the liver, he must be treated for that disease also. The following is a good pill for melan- choly ;—Lobelia Seed, 1 drachm ; Extract of Dandelion, 3 drs.; Bloodroot, 1 dr.; Senna, powder- ed, 2 drs. ; Cayenne, 1 dr.; vale- rian powdered, 2 drs.; butternut powdered, 3 drs. Form into pills with syrup and oil of mint. Two or three, three times a-day. ggp=These ingredients may be obtained at the Medical Botanists. HYSSOP.—It is very useful in colds, coughs, catarrhs, influenza, and affections of the lungs; as a gargle for sore mouth. See Rob- inson's Herbal. HYSTERICS. — This disease mostly affects young, nervous, single women. It manifests itself by fits, often preceded by nervous lowness, difficult breathing, sick- ness at the stomach, palpitations, and a pain at the left side, a rumb- ling noise in the bowels, the sensa- tion of a ball ascending to the