TAR 413 SYR deal of sugar, then milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather sharp, it will require more for the quantity of milk.—In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pound- ed cinnamon and sugar. SYLLABUBS, Durable.—Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine in a deep pan; put to it the grated peel and the juice of three lemons. Beat, or whisk it one way half an hour; then put it on a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. SYMPATHETIC INK.—Dis- solve bismuth in nitrous acid. When the writing is exposed to the vapour of sulphur, it will be- come quite black.—Make a weak solution of galls; write with it. To make it visible, moisten with a weak solution of copperas.—Write with a solution of copperas; moist- en the paper with a solution of prussiate of potass, and it will ap- pear blue. Sulphate of copper (blue vitriol) and sal ammoniac, equal parts, dissolved in water, write colourless, turn yellow when heated. Onion juice, like the last.—Solution of salt or saltpetre, shows when heated.—Write with starch water—a weak solution of iodine will make it visible. SYRUP, Simple.—Refined su- gar, 15 parts; water, 8 parts. Dis- solve by a gentle heat. Boil a little to form a syrup. Simple syrup should have neither flavour nor colour. Syrup is easily clarified by beating to a froth the white of an egg, with 3 or 4 ozs. of water, mixing it with the syrup, and boil- ing the mixture for a few seconds, until the albumen coagulates, and forms a scum, which may be easily taken off, or separated by filtra- tion. TAPE WORMS. See Worms. TAPIOCA JELLY. Wash well two large spoonfuls of large tapioca; soak it in lj pint of water for four hours; stew it gently in the same water till it is clear. Let it cool, and use it either with or without a little new milk. TAPIOCA PUDDING.—Put l lb. of tapioca into a saucepan of cold water ; when it boils, strain it to a pint of new milk ; boil till it soaks up all the milk, and put it out to cool. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, a table-spoonful of brandy, sugar, nutmeg, and 2 ozs. of butter. Mix all together; put a puff paste round the dish, and send it to the oven. It is very good boiled with melted butter, wine, and sugar. TAR.—It is beneficial in bron- chitis and other affections of the chest. Tar water is made by di- gesting 2 ozs. of tar in three pints of water for four days. It is good for hoarseness; it clears the lungs, and facilitates public speaking. TARTAR, to remove from the teeth.—Brush the teeth often up and down, not horizontally, with soap, then with salt. Eating fruit or oat-cake, cleanses the teeth greatly. In using the tooth brush the friction ought never to cause the gums to bleed. TARTS, Taste for.—See page 295. TART, Almond.—Bleach some almonds, beat them fine in a mor- tar, with a little sherry and sugar in the proportion of 1 lb. to 1 lb. of almonds; add grated bread, nutmeg, cream, and the juice of spinach for a colouring. Bake it gently, and thicken it with can- died orange or citron.