DIA 143 DIA seeds, bruised, 6 drachms ; infuse in one gallon of cold lime water for two days. Take a cupful three or four times a day. Or, 4 ozs. of alum whey may be taken three times a day. Made thus—Boil two quarts of milk over a slow fire, with three drachms of alum till turned into whey. Or, "take the Diuretic Drops— Give the Bitter Vapour Bath occa- sionally, and rub the body well with the Stimulating Liniment. If the bowels are constipated, give the Cathartic Powder. A DIABETES.—Drink wine, boiled with ginger, as much and as often as your strength will bear. Let your drink be milk and water. All milk meats are good. Or, drink three or four times a-day a quarter of a pint of alum posset, putting three drachms of alum to four pints of milk. It seldom fails to cure in eight or ten days.—Dr. Mead. Or, infuse half an ounce of cantharides in a pint of elixir of vitriol. Give from ten to thirty : drops in Bristol water twice or i thrice a-day.— Wesley. DIAMOND CEMENT.—Take isinglass, soak it in water until it i becomes soft, then dissolve it in proof-spirit, and add a little resin varnish. Used for joining china, glass, &c., and, under the name of t “Armenian cement,” for joining I and fixing precious stones. DIAPHORETICS. - Medicines ii producing perspiration, or gentle t sweat. DIAPHORETIC POWDER. 'J—Ipecacuanha powder, 2 grains; I purified opium, J grain; nitrate of I potass, or saltpetre, 10 grains. Take at bed-time in a severe attack 8 of influenza, or bronchitis, in gruel. fg5g“Henbane is preferable to i opium. ! DIAPHORETIC DECOC- <. HON.—Simply 2 or 3 ounces of Pleurisyroot, boiled in two or three pints of water. A tea-cupful. A good remedy for pleurisy, and in- flammation of the lungs. DIARRHCEA. From the Greek, dia, rheo, to flow through. It is an undue relaxed state of the bowels, as induced by improper food, drunkenness, cold; or it may be a symptom of another disease, as consumption, &c. The Neutralizing Mixture will be found efficacious in this com- plaint. Or, take a tea-spoonful of Composition Powder, and one of tincture of myrrh, and keep the patient warm. The following are good remedies:— To one quart of blackberry juice add one pound of white sugar, one table-spoonful of cloves, one of all- spice, one of cinnamon, and one of nutmeg. Boil all together fifteen minutes; add a wineglassful of whiskey, brandy, or rum. Bottle while hot, cork tight and seal. This is almost a specific in diar- rhoea. Dose :—a wineglassful for an adult—half for a child—will of- ten cure diarrhoea. Take three or four times a day if the case is severe. Or, Confection of catechu, 2 drs.; cinnamon water, 4 ounces; syrup of white poppies, 1 ounce; mix to- gether. One or two table-spoon- fuls to be taken twice or thrice a- day as required; for children un- der ten years of age, a dessert spoon- ful to be used; under two years, a tea-spoonful, also two or three times a-day, as above stated. Draught for Diarrhoea. Take tincture of opium, 30 drops ; pre- pared chalk, 2 drachms; powdered gum, 4 drachms ; tincture of cate- chu, 2 drachms; rose-water, 2 ounces. Mix, and take a table- spoonful three or four times a day. Or fill a small basin with dry flour, tightly cover it with a greas- ed cloth; boil it three hours.