SCR SCR 377 glow part of the fire, and let it eimmer gently; but take care it does not bum to the bottom. SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH —Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour; cut otf the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then sim- mer it an hour and a half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper: skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same num- ber of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender: add four large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an excel- lent winter dish. SCOURING BALLS. Dry fullers earth moistened with the j uice of lemons ; add a small quan- tity of pearl ashes, and a little soft soap; knead the whole well to- gether into a thick elastic paste; form it into small balls, and dry them in the sun. When used, moisten the spot on the clothes with water; then rub it with the ball, and let the spot dry in the sun. When washed with pure water the spot will disappear. SCRATCHES.—Do not neg- lect them. Wash them in cold water; close them as much as you i can, and cover with diachylon 1 plaster. If there is inflammation, I apply a bread poultice, or one of ' slippery elm. SCROFULA. The Latins ■ termed this disease scrofula, from scrofa, a hog, because it has been observed in swine. It is called the King's Kvil, because Edward the confessor, and other succeed- ing kings, both of England and France, pretended to cure it by the touch. Queen Anne, in 1807, by proclamation invited her scro- fulous subjects to the royal touch. The disease is well known, and requires little description. It is generally seen in the glands of the neck, in the ligaments of the joints, and even in the substance of the bones. The glands of the mesen- tery are often tumefied, and ac- cumulation takes place in the substance of the lungs, forming tubercles. Treatment.—This must depend on the state of the constitution, and the structure of the parts affected, &c. When the lungs are the seat of the mischief, it produces Pulmonary Consumption ; when it exists in the ligament of a joint, it is called White Swelling. The general health should be re- garded, and means adopted to es- tablish it. To invigorate and strengthen the absorbent system, cold bathing, and the sea air has been very beneficial; and the min- eral waters have not been useless, though they are not a specific. All these means, however, do not apply to scrofula in the lungs. Administer the vapour bath of bit- ter decoction ; give tonics, and an emetic occasionally; rub the tu- mours freely with the stimulating liniment night and morning ; and the body with salt and water every morning. If the tumours are much in- flamed, apply a poultice of bran and slippery elm bark. Linseed meal and slippery elm are very good. Apply cold, and renew when dry. The poultice is almost sovereign when the tumours burst,