ROS ROM 361 ress is to be placed, the -whole eing secured by an oil silk cap. The application is to be renewed twice a day; first well washing the parts with soap and water; the surface of the scalp is to be carefully searched, in order to de- : tect any small favous pustules that may have appeared. These must be pricked with a pin, the matter i removed, and the surface covered with the oil. This evolution of pustules is successive, so that the hair must be kept short in the vi- cinity, that their advent may be watched. This application secures the rapid abortion of the pustules ; but when the scalp is too tender to i bear it, it should be mixed with j other less irritating oils of which [ empyrheumatic oil of juniper is j one of the best. ROLLS, Excellent—Warm 1 oz. ii of butter in half a pint of milk, put ( it to a spoonful and a half of yeast s of small beer, and a little salt. Put 2 lbs. of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an i hour; knead it well; make into I seven rolls, and bake in a quick j oven. If made in cakes three inches j thick, sliced and buttered, they re- id semble Sally Lunns as made at 4 Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the ij addition of a little saffron boiled in ■ half a tea-cupful of milk, makes i them remarkably good. ROMAN CEMENT.—Roman it Cement, M. Berthier says, consists ® of common chalk and clay—one (6 part clay, and two and a half parts of chalk, set almost instantly. | Another.—Mix a bushel of slaked t Ime with 31 lbs of green copperas, I oalf a bushel of fine gravel sand, 1 ind 15 gallons of water. Dissolve ij he copperas in hot water, and stir • frequently. It must be mixed the ».ame day it is used. ROOM S, to fumigate for sich persons.—Put a table-spoonful of salt in a glass cup, and add, at four different times, a dessert spoonful of vitriolic acid. The vapour will come in contact with the malig- nant miasmata, and destroy them. ROOMS, to take the smell of paint from.—Place vessels of water combined with a little vitriolic acid in a newly painted room ; it will absorb the effluvia in three days. ROSES.—Put some powdered charcoal around the roots of your roses. It will improve their colour. ROSES, Cream of.—Oil of sweet almonds, 1 lb.; spermaceti and white wax, of each 1 oz.; rose water, 1 pint, Malta rose or neroli essence. Put the oil, spermaceti, and wax into a well-glazed pipkin, over a clear fire, and when melted, pour in the rose water gradually, beating till the compound becomes like pomatum. Add the essences, and pot the mixture; cover well with bladder. ROSES, Infusion of.—Take of red roses dried, £ an oz.; boiling water, a quart; oil of vitriol, k a drachm; loaf sugar, 1 oz. Infuse the roses in the water for 4 hours, in an unglazed earthen vessel; then pour in the acid, strain the liquor, and add to it the sugar. In an excessive flow of the menses, vomiting of blood, and other hemorrhages, a tea-cupful of this gentle astringent infusion may be taken every three or four hours. It likewise makes an ex- ceedingly good gargle. ROSE CAKE.—Boil 2 lbs. of sugar in a tea-cupful of water, over a slow fire, until you perceive it begins to candy on the Bides of the pan, or has reached the degree of blown ; take off, and add 12 drops of the oil or otto of roses. Colour with prepared cochineal. Mix all