ALE 14 ALE stand three hours. In the mean time infuse four pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the wa- ter and hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them together three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the small beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or if you cannot get it, of small-beer yeast. Mix it thorough- ly and often. When the worst has done working the second or third day, the yeast will sink ra- ther than rise in the middle, re- move it then, and tun the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time, and gently to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung- hole two or three days before stop- ping up. Ale, or Strong Beer, to brew. —Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer, (or fourteen if you want it of a very good body), eight for ale; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered ; mash it in the first half-hour, and let it stand the remainder of the time. Run it on the hops pre- viously infused in water; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil it from the wort two hours from the time it begins to boil. Cool a pailful to add three quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day; but if possiblo put to- gether the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done wor- king ; and when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve months in bottles before it be drank. It will keep fine eight or ten years. It should be brewed the beginning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are perfectly prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. The ale will be ready in three or four months; and if the vent- peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last, Allow two gallons of water at first for waste. After the beer or ale has run from the grains, pour a hogshead and a half for the twelve bushels, and a hogshead of water if eight were brewed; mash, and let it stand, and then boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that was boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a tea- spoonful, or more, if required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug will rectify it. Ale and Beer, to refine.—Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: like- wise a quarter of an ounce of pearl- ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. ALE, WINDSOR. Take 5 quarters of the best pale malt, | cwt. hops, 81bs. of honey, 1 lb. of coriander seed, ^ lb. of grains of paradise, £ lb. of orange peel, and 2) lbs. of ground liquorice root. The hops should be of the best