SKI SKI 386 pin, and right foot behind him, he must strike the three side pins at one motion, at the same time throw- ing the bowl at the pin No. 4. To tip for five, let him place his left foot a little to the left of the pin number nine, and his other foot behind; he should strike the ninth pin to hit the seventh, the fifth the fourth, and the bowl must knock down the sixth. When six are wanted, which number is generally thought most difficult to get, place the left foot in a line with the opposite angle of the frame, and the other foot behind at a good distance; strike the eighth pin full in the middle which will hit the seventh and sixth, and with the same motion, hit the middle pin against the third, and the bowl will hit the fourth, by which means the player will lay the sixth fairly down, and if not struck hard, without danger of rolling, especially if they are tipped down hill, to do which he must make his sixth his first pin. The proper proportion of a skit- tle is fifteen inches round, in the largest part, and twelve inches high. The bowl should be eighteen inches in circumference; and each angle of the frame for the pins 3 feet 4 inches., Laws and Rules.-1. The bowler must stand at the mark with one foot, and from thence deliver his ball fairly out of his hand, which should run upon the board fixed for that purpose before it arrives at the frame; for if the bowler does not cause his bowl to run along the board, or touch in some part, he loses the benefit of bowl- ing. 2. If the bowler throws the bowl so as to cause it to run double, as it is commonly called, and any one of the opposite party calls out a foul blow; if it has not reached the pins the player must bowl again; but if it arrived at the frame, before the opposite party I called out foul, whatever number is bowled down must be scored. 3. If a bowl runs clearly through I the frame, and knocks down any 1 number of pins, and is stopped in its return back again by one of the I opposite party, one additional pin must be allowed the person who bowled at the time. 4. If a bowl passes through the i frame, and on its return strikes a standing pin, and then a rolling or live pin, as it is called, runs 1 against the falling pin, that shall be deemed fair, because the live pin hits the other pin last. 6. If a live pin rolls against a standing pin, and the bowl comes on its return against the falling pin before it is down, that is deem- ed an unfair pin, because the bowl struck it last. 6. If the bowl runs through the I frame, and knocks at the head 1 board, though it may have bowled j down many pins, none are allowed. I 7. If the bowl runs through, or j on the outside of the frame, and knocks, and then runs round the ] other side of the frame, without j crossing any part of it or touching 1 any of the live pins, the bowler I must stand to take his tip with one foot upon the spot where the bowl I stopped ; and in tipping from such ‘ place, he must not strike the j ground with the bowl before it f hits the pins, if he does he loses 1 all he may knock down. 8. If in tipping the bowl is , caught or stopped by one of the 1 opposite party, who in so doing I stops or impedes a live pin, he loses one, because he prevented 1 the tipper from receiving the ben- efit which might have arisen front <■ a live pin.