HEA 193 HAS HARNESS, to dean.—Free it from all dirt, sweat, and grease. Then use Bristol-brick, or rotten stone, and pulverized charcoal, and a little Galipoli oil. Apply it with a soft brush, wipe off, and polish off with charcoal dust. The Brass Ornaments may be cleaned with half ounce of oxalic tin, half pint of water, and half pint of naptha. Then polish off with sal-ammoniac powdered, be- fore a hot fire, and then with fine whiting. When the harness is faded, it may be restored by a mixture of logwood and bichromate of potass, or aleppo galls, powdered, with a little alum. HARNESS POLISH.—Take 2 ozs. of mutton suet, 6 ozs. of bees’ wax, 6 ozs. of powdered su- gar-candy, 2 ozs. of soft soap, and 1 oz. of indigo or lamp black. Dissolve the soap in a quarter of a pint of water; then add the other ingredients; melt and mix together; add a gill of turpentine. Lay it on the harness with a sponge, and polish off with a brush. HARROGATE WATER, Ar- tificial.—Dissolve half drachm of liver of sulphur, and 1 oz. of tar- tarised kali in 1 quart of pure soft water. It is as good as the real Harrogate water. Take a wine- glassful now and then. Useful in chronic rheumatism, skin dis- eases, and piles. HARTSHORN JELLY. — Simmer 8 ozs. of hartshorn shav- ings with two quarts of water to one; strain, and boil it with the rinds of four oranges and two lem- ons pared thin; when cool, add the juice of both, h lb. of sugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth; let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly-bag. HASTY PUDDING. Rub down a table-spoonful of flour in a little cold milk, then stir it into a pint of boiling milk; sweeten with sugar, and serve hot. Another is made by stirring flour into boiling water, into which a little salt has been put. It is served with treacle, or sugar, or sugar and butter. It is good for a lax state of the bowels, without treacle. HASTY PUDDING, baled.— Into a pint of cold milk stir \ lb. of flour, and boil up; let it stand till cold; then add two eggs beaten; mix well with sugar to sweeten, and spices; put into cups and bake. HATS.—When silk hats are wetted by the rain, shake it off, and wipe round frequently with a silk handkerchief, and when dry with a soft brush. HAY, to ascertain the weight of. —Measure the length and breadth of the stack; then take its height from the ground to the eaves, and add to this last one third of the height from the eaves to the top. Multiply the length by the breadth, and the product by the height, all expressed in feet; divide the amount by 27, to find the cubic yards, which multiply by the number of stones supposed to be in a cubic yard (viz: in a stack of new hay, six stones ; if the stack has stood a considerable time, eight stones; and if old hay, nine stones), and you have the weight in stones. For example, suppose a stack to be 60 feet in length, 30 in breadth, 12 in height, from the ground to the eaves, and 9 (the third of which is 3) from the eaves to the top; then 60 multiplied by 30 and by 15, is equal to 27,000; 27,000, divided by 27, is equal to 1,000; and 1,000, multiplied by 9, is equal to 9,000 stones of old hay. HEADACHE.—Take a small handful of Centaury, and as much M