43 BAN BAR Tate 2\ lbs. of the tops of balm, bruised' and put them into a barrel with a little now yeast; and when the liquor is cold, pour it on the balm. Stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring it often. Then close it up, and let it stand six weeks. Rack it off, and put a lump of su- gar into each bottle. Cork well; it will be better the second year than the first. Far. BALSAMIC MIXTURE.- Balsam of Capivi, 3 ozs. ; oil of juniper, 30 drops; gum arabic, dis- solved in water, a sufficient quan- tity ; a cupful of spring water, and 1 oz. each of proof spirit, and syrup of marshmallows. Mix. Good for urinary affections. BALSAM, Locatilla's.—Olive- oil, one pint; oil of turpentine and yellow wax, of each half a pound ; red saunders, six drachms. Melt the wax with part of the oil over a gentle fire, then add the remainder of the oil of turpentine ; afterwards mix in the saunders, reduced to powder, and stir till the balsam is cold. This balsam is recommended in erosions of the intestines, the dy- sentery, hsemorrhages, internal bruises, and in some complaints of the breast. Outwardly it is used for healing and cleansing wounds and ulcers. The dose, internally, is two scruples to two drachms. BALSAM FOR COUGHS AND COLDS.—Tincture of tolu, and compound tincture of benzoin, of each, one ounce; rectified spirit, two ounces; syrup of blood root, a table-spoonful. (See Flood-root Syrup.) Mix. Dose, a tea-spoonful. BANBURY CAKES. Roll out puff paste about a quarter inch thick, and place Banbury Com- position in the middle of the piece of paste you are to use; fold the other side over it and press it into an oval shape, flatten it with your hand at the top, letting the joining be at the bottom. Rub the top over with white of egg, and dust with powdered sugar.—Banbury Composition:—B eat up well a quar- ter pound of butter, mix with it half a pound of candied orange and lemon cut small, one pound of cur- rants, and quarter ounce each of ground cinnamon, and allspice. Mix all together with eight ounces of sugar. Keep in a jar for use. Bake fifteen minutes. BANBURY CAKES.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter rub- bed into the flour, mix it with milk and a little balm; about two ounces for a penny; roll them round, then put sugar, currants, and a little of the essence of lemons in the middle; take them up long and bake them in a hot oven. BANDOLINE FOR THE HAIR.-This fixature is best made a little at a time. Pour a table- spoonful of boiling water on a do- zen quince seeds; and repeat when fresh is required. Or a solution of Gum Arabic; scented with otto of Roses. BANNOCK.—Meal, 2cupfuls; Flour, 2 cupfuls; a teaspoonful of salt; one of ginger; two table- spoonfuls of treacle; sufficient but- termilk; half a teaspoonful of soda. Bake an hour. BARBERRIES, for Taitlets. —Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, add to every pound weight three quarters of a pound of lump sugar; put the fruit into a stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a sauce- pan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft; put them and the sugar into a preserving- pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes.—Use no metal but silver, BARBERRIES, to preserve.— This fruit must hist be boiled in