GRA GRA 185 lb. of pulp add 1 lb. of sugar. Boil 25 minutes slowly, stirring well. GRAPE JELLY.—Mix equal quantities of the juice of ripe grapes, and dissolved isinglass; add sugar as you like. Add two glasses of Madeira, strain and put into moulds. GRAPE WINE. — Bruise a gallon of white gr apes into a gal- lon cf water, to stand a week with- out stirring; pour off the liquor fine. To each gallon, add 3 lbs. of lump sugar; after it ceases hissing, stop it close, and in six months it will be fit to bottle. Less water used, and better the wine. GRATES, bright to clean.— Use rotten stone and sweet oil. GRAVEL. — A collection of sand or small particles of stone in the kidneys, ureters, or bladder. The urine oft gives the deposit of a brick-dust appearance, uric acid. The symptoms are shivering, pain in the loins, generally felt more severely on one side, and passing downwards—towards the bladder, a frequent desire to make water, which is passed in small quanti- ties, sometimes with blood, or for a time not passed at all, irritation about the neck of the bladder. As the irritating matter passes from the kidneys into the ureter, it pro- duces pain so great as to cause faintings and convulsive fits. The transit of this matter may be made in a few horn's, or it may last for several days. The follow- ing are good remedies:— Dissolve 3 drachms of prepared natron or carbonate of soda, in a quart of cold soft water, and take half during the day. Continue as the case may require. The great- est martyrs have been relieved by this simple remedy. Or, Take one ounce of the spirits of sweet nitre, two drachms of liquid laudanum, and half an ounce of the oil of juniper. Take a tea-spoon- ful in a cup of linseed tea sweet- ened with honey. This has per- formed wonders. Or, Take dandelion and marsh- mallow roots, of each two ounces, agrimony, a small handful, to three quarts of water; boil to two quarts. Dose—a wine-glassful every three or four hours. A gentle aperient may at times be given, and warm injections are very soothing. Take also the Di- uretic Infusion. Flannels dipped in hot Tincture of Cayenne, and wrung out, or the Stimulating Liniment may be applied to the pained part. Hops simmered in vinegar, to which add 20 or 30 drops of laudanum. Drink at the same time a strong infusion of spearmint, and bathe the feet in warm water. The vapour bath now and then is very useful. Dr. Beach advises the following: —Acetate of potash, 2 drachms; honey, | oz.; spirits of turpen- tine, | drachm; carbonate of soda, k a drachm; mint water or tea, 8 ozs. Mix. Dose, two table- spoonfuls three times a day. Eat largely of spinach. Or, drink largely of warm water sweet- ened with honey. Or, of pelli- tory of the wall tea so sweetened. Or, infuse an ounce of wild parsley-seeds in a pint of white wine for twelve days. Drink a glass of it, fasting, three months. To prevent its return, breakfast for three months on agrimony tea. It entirely cured me twenty years ago, nor have I had a symptom of it since.— Wesley. Red onion juice, and horse-mint tea, as much as the patient can take morning and night, is a fine remedy, and will dissolve stone. GRAVY.—If richness be want- ed in any gravy, a lump of butter,