COM CON 119 Comfits are made the same way. The colouring for comfits is rose or Dutch pink. COMMON PLASTER.—Yel- low resin, \ lb.; beeswax, 2 ozs.; cayenne pepper, 1 oz.; spirits of wine, half a pint or more. Sim- mer carefully till the spirits are al- most evaporated. "When nearly cold, add camphor, 1 oz.; oil of sassafras, 1£ drachm; opium, 1 drachm. As a strengthening plaster, it always gives relief. COMPOSITION POWDER; Thompson's. See Robinson's Fami- lylSerbal, page 341.—Take bay- berry, 8 ounces; ginger, 8ounces; poplar bark, 4 ounces; white oak bark, 4 ounces; cayenne pepper, 3J ounces; cloves, £ ounce. Pow- der and mix intimately. Dissolve a teaspoonful in a cup of boiling water, sweetened. Valuable to remove colds, influenza, fever, re- lax, pain in the bowels, cold ex- tremities. For promoting perspi- ration, and morbific matter, the cause of disease, it is invaluable. When taken, the patient should go to bed, and apply the hot brick, &o. COMPLEXION, to improve it. —Be cheerful; get as much fresh air in-doors and out-doors, as pos- sible. Keep in health; promote a good digestion, and regular eva- cuations ; avoid alcoholic drinks: a milk and vegetable diet makes a ■ fair complexion; plain living, with- out condiments and hot seasonings, &c., makes the fairest face. It is good to rise early in the morning, drink a cup of milk, walk into the fields, wash the face in sparkling dew, gaze on creation, below, above, and all around you, till mental pleasure beams forth on i your face in radiant smiles. Check the effects of grief, disappointments, i embarrassment, &c. Dissolve flowers of sulphur in milk, and strain. With the clear milk, wash the face.—Or infuse sifted bran in best vinegar; add, well beaten, the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs, and 1 grain of ambergris. Distil. Bottle, and cork well.— Or, Castile soap, 4 ozs.; Fuller’s earth water, 1 quart. Dissolve. Add J oz. of spirits of wine, and 1 drachm each of oil of lavender and rosemary. Fuller’s eartu water is made by merely dissolving it in water, stirring well, and then let it settle. This earth alone is good for the complexion. CONSTIPATION, Costiveness. —A sluggish state of the lower bowel, causing the retention of the fasces. It is a very common dis- ease. It may be caused by food hard to be digested, by ardent spirits which have a very consti- pating influence, and debilitate the lower bowel; frequent exces- sive purges have the same effect. Sedentary employments, the want of exercise, and fresh air, and not drinking water in sufficient quan- tity, lead to costiveness. It is of- ten attended with many distressing symptoms, and is the cause of various dangerous diseases; as piles, fistula, indigestion, hernia, colic, cholera. And it is also the effect of many diseases. Constipation is to be removed by an attention to diet, by adopt- ing a vegetable diet, and by eating bread made of unsifted flour ; that is, no bran, sharps, &c., taken away. Also, by taking much ex- ercise, and a more copious supply of diluents, especially toast and water. Make a regular habit of evacuating once a day at a fixed hour, and always make an effort whether successful or not. Assist the bowels by an injection of warn water, about half a pint; if ver obstinate, add to the water a litt" castor oil. For several nights ta’ one or two of the Dyspeptic Pi