285 OYS OYS OYSTERS, to fry.—Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, sea- son it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. OYSTERS, to fry.—Take 2 dozen large oysters; beat the yolks of two eggs ; add to it a little nut- meg, a blade of mace pounded, a spoonful of flour, and a little salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in lard a light brown; if agree- able, a little shred parsley may be added. They are a proper gar- nish for cod’s-head, calf’s head, or most made dishes. OYSTER KETCHUP.-Beard the oysters; boil them up in their liquor; strain, and pound them in a mortar; boil the beards in spring water, and strain it to the first oyster liquor; boil the pounded oysters in the mixed liquors, with beaten mace and pepper. Some add a very little mushroom ket- chup, vinegar, or lemon-juice; but the less the natural flavour is over- powered the better; only spice is necessary for its preservation. This oyster ketchup will keep per- fectly good longer than oysters are ever out of season in England. OYSTER LOAVES. — Open them, and save the liquor ; wash them in it; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser with a bit of good butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice ; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. OYSTER PATTIES.—Put a fine puff paste into small patty- pans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and against they are baked have ready the fol- lowing to fill with, taking out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, with a grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut so small that you can scarcely see it, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes before you fill. Observe to put a bit of crust in- to all patties, to keep them hollow while baking. OYSTERS, to pickle.—Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it, a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white wine, and four of vinegar.—Sim- mer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jars and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters: cover close. Another way.—Open the num- ber you intend to pickle, put them into a saucepan with their own liquor for ten minutes, simmer them very gently; then put them into ajar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hun- dred put two spoonfuls of the best undistilled vinegar. They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, for the air will spoil them. OYSTER SAUCE.—Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. Throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor’, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with milk, as will make sauce enough; but first rub a little flour with it.