DYE 149 DUC Give as many teaspoonfuls till it becomes purgative. The diet must he light and easy of digestion, as sago, arrow-root, mutton and beef-tea. DRUNKENNESS, to cure a Jit of.—Take an ounce of minde- rus spirit in a cupful of water. Repeat the dose every fifteen minutes. DUCKS, to choose.—A young duck should have supple feet, breast and belly hard and thick. A tame duck has dusky yellow feet. They should be picked dry, and ducklings scalded. DUCK boiled.—A duck boiled and smothered in onions, is an ex- cellent dish, and fit for a monarch. Boil twenty-five minutes. The onions should be twice boiled before being made into a sauce. Serve them as follows :—To the onion sauce add chopped parsley, a cup- ful of good gravy, a spoonful of lemon juice, and a wine glassful of port wine. Pour the whole upon the ducks. DUCK PIE.—Make a stiff paste crust; clean well a couple of ducks ; scald them; cut off the feet, pinions, neck, and head, all clean picked and scalded, with the gizzard, liver and hearts; pick out all the fat of the inside ; lay a crust all over the dish ; season' the ducks with pep- per and salt, inside and out; lay them in the dish, and the giblets at each end, seasoned; cover the meat with water ; lay on the crust, and bake. DUCKS, to roast.—Carefully pick, and clean the inside. Boil two or three onions in two waters; chop them very small. Mix the onions with about half the quanti- ty of sage leaves, bread crumbs finely powdered, a spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne pepper; beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub the stuffing well together. With a brisk fire roast about 35 minutes. Serve with gravy sauce. DUCK, to stew. — Lard two young ducks down each side the breast; dust with flour; brown before the fire; put into a stew- pan with a quart of water, a pint of port wine, a spoonful of walnut ketchup, the same of browning, one anchovy, a clove of garlick, sweet herbs, and cayenne pepper. Stew till they are tender, about half an hour; skim, and strain, and pour over the duck. DUCK, to stew with peas.—Half roast the ducks. Then put them into a stew-pan with a pint of good gravy, a little mint, and six sage leaves chopped small, salt, &c., cover, and stew half an hour : boil a pint of green peas, as for eating, and put them in after you have thickened the gravy. Dish up the ducks, pour the gravy and peas over them. DUSTING POWDER FOR CHILDREN. Mix prepared chalk, rice, starch, and fullers earth equally. Fust wash the part in cold water. DUTCH CAKE.—Take 5 lbs. of flour; 2 ozs. of carraway seeds; | lb. of sugar; better thau a pint of milk, and § lb. of butter; make a hole in the middle of the flour; put in a pint of good yeast; pour in the butter and milk ; make into a paste ; rise, roll into thin cakes; hake 15 minutes. Hu. DUTCH SAUCE. Slice an onion, put into a stew-pan, with a little scraped horseradish, 2 an- chovies, some elder vinegar, and some second stock; boil for ten minutes; strain; return it into the stew-pan, and beat up two eggs, put it to the sauce, and set it on the fire till it comes to a boil. DYEING.—Blue ; first dip the article in a solution of alum; and then in a solution of extract of In- Newest Modus, See jiage 454.