CAR 98 CAS boil them for two or three hours. Very young carrots will only re- quire one hour. CARROTS, to prepare.—Scrape clean, put them into the pan, when enough, take out, rub them in a cloth. Slice them into a plate, and pour melted butter, pepper, and salt over them. If young car- rots, boil half an hour, if large, an hour; old carrots will take two hours boiling. Some cooks mash them, and add milk or cream. Far. CARROT PUDDING. — Boil a large carrot tender ; then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit-pow- der, or three or four sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little rata- fia, a large spoonful of orange or rose-water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste, and turn it out to serve with a lit- tle sugar dusted over. Ru. CARROT SOUP.—Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper and salt into a saucepan, and stew for three hours. Have ready six large car- rots, scraped and cut thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair-sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the car- rots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. Ru. CARROT SOUP.—'The liquor in which you have boiled mutton or veal, or a gravy’ drawn from beef bones, will make a sufficient foundation to this excellent soup; put a couple of quarts of either of these into a stewpan, then scrape six large carrots, and cut off the red portion; put that, with a head of celery and onion both cut up, into the stew-pan,cover down close, and set it near the fire, or in a very slow oven, for two hours and a half; if you do not find the car- rots quite soft by this time, give them another half hour's simmer- ing ; force the vegetables through a sieve by the aid of a wooden spoon, and if you find the pulp mixed with the liquor, is too thick for soup, add more broth; season with salt and pepper to your taste. Warm before sending to the table. Serve with toasted bread. CARROTS, Stewed.—Halfboil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak broth, some pepper, and salt, and half a cupful of cream; simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving rub a very little flour with a bit of but- ter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before the car- rots are served. Ru. CASCARILLA, Tincture of.— Cascarilla bark, powdered, 2 ozs ; proof spirit, 1 pint; digest with a gentle heat for seven days, and strain. A valuable stimulant of great use in gout; it gives tone and system to the stomach. Two drachms three times per day. CASKS, to sweeten.—To scour casks effectually rinse them with a solution of vitriol and water, which will entirely deprive them of their foulness. CASTOR OIL. — A valuable and safe aperient. It acts speedi- ly, effectually cleanses the bowels, without leaving any tendency to constipation. The dose is one or two table-spoonfuls. To most it is disagreeable, and it requires to