PAN 290 PAN ulating Liniment. Dr. Beach re- commends the following injection: —cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful; lobelia, 2 teaspoonfuls; boiling water, 1 pint. Let it infuse; stir well, in order to get the strength out as soon as possible ; sweeten with treacle; add half a pint of milk, and a gill of sweet oil. Give it warm; as much as the patient can bear; this will excite action in the bowels, and promote evacu- ations. Salt and water will make a very good injection. If constipation should prevail, coarse, or brown bread, should be eaten, or aperients should be taken, page 20, 21, or a dose of castor oil; followed by the continual use of the Restorative Bitters, introdu- cing the peroxide of iron, say J oz. to a pint of the bitters. Also take a Nervous Pill; and occasionally the Alterative Syrup. See. Ad- denda. Let the diet be simple, light, and spare. Take abundant exercise in the open air, when the weather permits. PALSY, Infusion for.—Take horse radish, mustard seed bruised, of each, 4 ozs.; outer rind of orange peel, 1 oz.; infuse in two quarts of boiling water in a close vessel for 24 hours. In paralytic affec- tions, a tea-cupful of this warm stimulant may be taken three or four times a day. PANADA, or bread, ar biscuit jelly.—Set a little water on the fire; when it boils, take off, and add a glass of sherry, sugar, a lit- tle grated nutmeg and lemon-peel. At the same time grate some crumbs of bread. Put the crumbs in, and let it boil fast; when of a proper thickness to drink,takeit off. PANADA. Another Method. —Put to the water a bit of lemon- peel ; mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, add some lemon or orange syrup. Ob- serve to boil ail the ingredients; for if they be added afterward, the panada will break, and not jelly. PANADA, Chicken.—Page 108. PANCAKES, General Direc- tions for making.—Clean the pan well before you fry the pancakes; j put a little lard into it, and when j hot wipe it out with a clean cloth; 1 then put in more lard or butter, j and fry the pancakes of a nice light brown, and drain them thoroughly from the fat. They should be I eaten hot, and sugar strewed upon them. PANCAKES to make.-A quart of milk; beat in 6 or 8 eggs, leav- ing half the whites out; mix, till the batter is of a fine thickness, j The flour must be first mixed with a little milk ; add the rest by de- grees, also two spoonfuls of beaten ginger, a glass of brandy, and a little salt; stir all together ; pour into the pan, (as above directed) a ladleful of batter, sufficient to make a pancake, moving the pan round, that the batter may be all over the pan; shake the pan, and when one side is enough, toss it j over quickly. When both sides I are done, put it upon a dish before I the fire to keep hot. Sprinkle 1 over it a little sugar. PANCAKES,American— Mix I a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of ■ fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little 1 salt; fry them very thin in fresh I butter, and between each strew su- 1 gar and cinnamon. PANCAKES, Common.—Mato a light batter of eggs, flour and 1 milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, nutmeg, I or ginger, may be added. Sugar j and lemon should be served to eat with them. If eggs are scarce, | make the batter of flour, and small beer, ginger, &c., or clean snow, with flour, and a little milk.