HAS RAT 349 over the fruit. Puff paste having been laid in a proper tin, pour in enough jam to fill the dish, place strings of paste across, let it brake for half an hour, but never serve it hot. RASPBERRY VINEGAR.— Put 1 lb. of fine fruit into a bowl, i and pour upon it a pint of the best vinegar; next day strain the liquor on 1 lb. of fresh raspberries; and the following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it; the last time pass it through a canvass, previously wet with vine- gar, to prevent waste; put it into a stone jar, with 1 lb. of lump su- gar to every pint of juice ; stir it when melted; then put the jar in- to a saucepan of water. Simmer, and slum it; when cold, bottle it. Another.—Press out the juice of 3 pints of raspberries through a hair sieve to retain the seeds; put to the juice a pint of the best vine- gar; add 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar. Let all be in a pipkin, and place it in a pan of water on the fire. Simmer 20 minutes, and fil- ter through fine muslin. Cool, bottle and cork well. It is a very cooling beverage for thirst, colds, fevers, and inflammatory com- plaints. A teaspoonful or two in a tumbler of cold water. It may be made effervescing by using car- bonate of soda. RASPBERRY WATER ICE. •—Ripe raspberries, 2 quarts; ripe cherries and currants, 1 lb. each; sugar, 4 lbs.; water, 1 quart, and the juice of two lemons. Crush the fruit, and pass it through a sieve; mix all together, and freeze. RASPBERRY WINE. — To every quart of well picked rasp- berries put a quart of water; bruise and let them stand two days; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put 3 lbs. of lump sugar; when dissolved put the liquor into a ban-el, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a table- spoonful of brandy. RASPBERRY or CURRANT WINE.—To every three pints of fruit carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water; bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart 1 lb. of good sugar. If for white cun-ants, then you must use lump sugar. It is best to put the fruit and sugar in a large pan, and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel.—Those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once; the wine will not hurt if made in the pan, in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. RATAFIA.—Blanch 2 ozs. of peach and apricot kernels, bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. Dissolve | lb. of white sugar-candy in a cup of cold water, and add it to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strain- ed off; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peach and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substi- tute for ratafia in puddings. RATAFIA.—Nutmegs, 4 ozs.; bitter almonds, 5 lbs.; fine sugar, 4 lbs.; ambergris, 5 grains. In- fuse tlie whole 3 days in 4 or 5 gal- lons of proof spirit; then filter for use. The nutmegs and bitter al- monds must be bruised, and the ambergris rubbed with the sugar in a mortar, before the spirit is added.