FEL FEA 162 drachm of sal-ammoniac in water three times a day. Or steam the parts over hitter herbs. If the swelling be great apply a ley poultice. Or bathe the parts with the Rheumatic Liquid. For jaw and tooth-ache, apply tincture of cayenne on cotton lint between the cheek and the teeth. FACE BURNING.—It arises from acidity of the stomach. T ake one or two tea-spoonfuls of mag- nesia in milk. FAINTING FITS. — Remove the patient to the open air, and lay him in a horizontal position, with nothing tight left upon him. Should the case be obstinate, im- merse the feet and legs in warm water, and apply spirits of harts- horn to the nostrils; and give a few drops in a glass of water, or hot brandy and water. Hu. FAMILY WINE. Equal parts of black, red, and white cur- rants, cherries, and raspberries. Bruise and mix with soft water,— 4 lbs. of fruit to 1 gal. of water. Press, strain, and add 3 lbs. of sugar to each gallon of liquid. After standing two or three days, skimming it, barrel it, and let it fer- ment for a fortnight. Add bran- dy, and bung. It gets rich with age. FEATHERS, to clean.—Feath- ers may be cleansed from their animal oil by steeping them in lime water—1 lb. of lime to a gal- lon of water; stir well, and then pour the water from the lime. To clemse feathers from dirt, make a strong lather of white soap and hot water. Put in the feathers and rub them for five minutes. Rinse in clean hot water. FEATHERS TO CURL.— Heat them slightly before the fire, then stroke them with the back of a knife, and they will curl. FEATHERS TO DYE.—Steep them a few hours in warm water. • Blue may be dyed by extract of indigo and boiling water. Sim- mer over the fire a few minutes. Green; Verdigris and Verdi - ter, 1 oz. each; and gum water; dip the feathers. Or mix the in- digo liquor with Persian berry liquor. Lilac. Use cudbear and hot water. Red. Brazil wood, a little vermilion and alum, and vinegar; boil 30 minutes; and then dip the feathers. Yellow by turmeric. Scarlet, by cochi- neal, cream of tartar, and muriate of tin. FEBRIFUGES. Medicines abating heat and fever. FEBRIFUGE. —Take house- leek ; place in a coarse cloth, and squeeze out the juice, and strain; to 1 lb. of which add 1 lb. of loaf sugar; simmer a short time to form a syrup. Give a table-spoon- ful every two hours. In fevers this acts" like magic—in all kinds of fever. FELON, or WHITLOW.—A very painful inflammation of the fingers, thumb, or hand. A whit- low resembles a felon, but it is not so deeply seated. It is often found at the root of the nail. Immerse the diseased finger in strong ley as long and as hot as can be borne several times a day. Constantly poultice it with a mixture of strong ley and elm bark, or elm bark and powdered linseed, and one poppy head softened in the ley. Or steam it well with the bitter herbs, which may be used several times; about twenty minutes at a time. Con- tinue till well, or when it begins to suppurate; then will appear a white spot, which when fully ripe, may bo opened with a fine needle, Should gangrenous matter appear, apply a little Vegetable Caustic, which see. Apply tho Black Salve to heal it. Keep'the bowels open,