MOO 257 MIR When the pies and tarts are made, put in citron, orange, and lemon peel. MINCE PIES, made of eggs.-- Boil six eggs hard, shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet; then put currants washed and picked, 1 lb., or more, if the eggs are large; the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, nut- meg, sugar, a very little salt; orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. MINCE PIES, without meat. —Chop fine 3 lbs. each of suet, and apples, when pared and cored; I wash and dry 3 lbs. of currants; stone and chop 1 lb. of raisins; beat and sift li lb. of loaf sugar; 12 ozs. of candied orange peel, and i 6 ozs. of citron. Mix all well to- i gether with \ oz. of nutmeg, half ■; the quantity of cinnamon, 6 or 8 cloves, and half a pint of French i brandy; cover close, and keep for ' use. MINT, to cultivate.—This is done by parting the roots in spring; or by planting cuttings in a moist soil during the summer months, land watering them several times a day till they have takenroot. Plant the cuttings five inches apart. MINT SAUCE.—Wash fresh gathered mint; pick the leaves from the stalks; mince them very fine, and put them into a sauce- boat with a tea-spoonful of sugar, and four table-spoonfuls of vine- gar. It may also be made with dried mint, or with mint vinegar. MINT YINEGAR.-Dry and pound | oz. of mint seed; pour up- jn it a quart of the best vinegar. Infuse 10 days, shaking well. MIRANGUES. — Whisk the vhites of 9 eggs to a thick froth; idd the rind of 6 lemons grated ine, and a table-spoonful of sifted ■ugar; then lay a wet sheet of paper on a tin, and with a spoon, drop the mixture in lumps separ- ately upon it; sift sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven, of a nice colour; then put raspberry, apricot, or any kind of jam between two bottoms; put them together, and lay them in a warm place to dry. MOCK BRAWN.—Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender; take the meat off, and have ready the belly- piece of pork salted with salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this al- most enough; take out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork to- gether. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold; after which keep it in a sousing-liquor, thus made;—Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain it and let it get cold. MOCK TURTLE.— Take a calf’s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean well; half boil it, take all the meat off in bits,break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef broth. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour to thicken the gravy; stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils; skim it carefully, and then put in the head; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is tender. About ten minutes beforeyou serve, put in some basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, cayenne, pepper and salt to your taste; also two spoonfuls of mushroom-ketchup and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat balls, and small eggs. MOOR GAME, to pot.—Pick, singo, and wash the birds; dry, Q