HUN 201 HOT HORSERADISH SAUCE.— 1 Grate very small a stick of horse- 1 radish ; then with two tablespoon- 5 fills of it, mix a little salt, and four ; tablespoonfuls of cream ; stir brisk- ly, and add gradually a wineglass- ful of vinegar, and a little sherry i wine. Excellent with cold roast 1 beef. Another.—Grate horseradish in- to a basin, then add three table- spoonfuls of cream, a teaspoonful ; of mustard, and a little salt. Mix i well with half a cupful of vinegar, 1 to which has been put a little melt- < ed butter, a little gravy, and some ; mushroom, or walnut ketchup, a Season with clove, black, or cay- i enne pepper. A. N. HORSERADISH VINEGAR —To 3 ozs. of scraped horseradish, i, put a quart of best vinegar, 1 oz. 1 of minced shalot, and 1 dr. of <1 cayenne. Let it stand a week, d HOSIER BISCUIT. — One 1 pint of new milk. Stir in a tea- spoonful of salt, and flour, until 9 it becomes a stiff batter; add two j table-spoonfuls of yeast; let it rise in a warm place as much as it ., will. Then stir in a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of potass dissolved i in hot water; beat up three eggs; f stir them, and flour with the bat- ! ter till it becomes thick dough; i let it rise; knead again; cut to j biscuit shape; bake in a quick : oven. HOTCH-POTCH.—Stew peas, ‘i lettuce, and onions in a little wa- s ter with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry mutton or J lamb steaks brown; forty min- i utes before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegeta- bles over them; stew, and serve in a tureen. A knuckle of veal and scrag of mutton, stewed with i vegetables, as above, will make a I nice hotch-potch. HOTCH POTCH, of different kinds.—Take a brisket of beef, or mutton steaks or pigeons, rabbits cut in quarters, or veal, or poultry; boil long over a slow fire in a lit- tle liquid, with onions, carrots, parsnips, turnips, celery, parsley, shalots, spices, a laurel leaf, thyme, sausages, and thin broth or water. When done, drain. Fowl may be done in the same way, pickled pork, a little ham, &c. Pigeons also with bacon, broth, a little butter, nutmeg, ginger, a little lemon, &c. HOT WATER PIPES, to stop leakage in.—Ipn borings and fi- lings, mix them with vinegar and a little sulphuric acid; let the mixture stand till it becomes a paste; with this fill up the cracks, where the leakage is; and if the pipe has been previously dried, and is kept dry till the paste hard- ens, it will effectually stop the leakage, and will last a long time. PIOUSELEEK.—It is used as a cooling application to sores, ul- cers, &e. The juice mixed with cream is good for inflammation of the eyes, and erysipelas. Taken inwardly it is good for fevers, cool- ing them down wonderfully. First give a purgative to cleanse the sto- mach and bowels ; then bruise the houseleek; adding to the juice its weight in fine sugar to form a syr- up. A tablespoonful every tivo hours. Frink balm or catnep tea. This receipt is worth gold. See Robinson’s Family Herbal. HUNTER’S PUDDING.-Mix 1 lb. each of suet, flour, currants, rasins stoned, and cut; the rind of half a lemon shred fine ; 6 Ja- maica peppers finely powdered, 4 eggs, a glass of brandy, salt, and a little milk to make it of a proper consistence; boil it in floured cloth 8 or 9 hours. Serve with white sauce. This pudding will keep 6 months, if tied up in the same cloth.