EYE EXP 159 a -wine-glassful, and a small le- mon. Boil the butter, sugar, water, and half the rind of a lemon together. Drop a little in- to cold water; if crisp, it is done. When the boiling has ceased stir in the juice of the lemon. Pour it into a buttered dish about a quarter of an inch thick. Or to 1 lb. of fine sugar, add 2 ozs. of butter. When boiled to the crackled degree, grain it, and pour into buttered tins. It may be flavoured with ginger, pepper- mint, cloves, &c., as you like, by adding a drop or two of the re- spective essential oil. EVE’S PUDDING.—Take six large juicy apples; pare, core, and chop them fine; six ounces of bread crumbs ; six ounces of cur- rants ; six eggs, and three or four ounces of sugar, and the rind of half a lemon shred very fine. Mix well, and boil in a mould or close- ly-covered pan for three hours; serve with sweet sauce. EXCORIATIONS, chafing.— Apply Fullers earth.—Wash with a strong raspberry leaf tea.—Apply a weak solution of brandy and salt. —The celandine ointment is very efficacious. EXPECTORANTS. — Medi- cines increasing the secretion from the lungs. EXPECTORANT SYRUP.— St. John’swort, 1 oz.; Sage, 1 oz.; Lobelia, 1 drachm. Form a syrup by using sugar, or treacle. For a child six months old, a small tea- spoonful, and increase by age. EXPECTORANT TINC- TURE.—See Antispasmodic Tinc- ture, page 20, which is the same. Another. — Blood-root, lobelia seed, ipecacuanha, of each, \ oz.; 1 pint of spirits. Infuse for a week. Take in water. Useful in coughs, inflammation of the lungs, pleurisy, astfcma, hooping cough. EXPLOSIVE COMPOUND. —Nine parts of well-dried and finely powdered chlorate of potash, mixed with three parts of finely powdered galls, will make a highly explosive compound. Do not mix it in a mortar, as it would explode, but by means of a bone spatula, or passing through a brass sieve. The strength of common gunpowder may be increased by working up with the powdered meal about 12 per cent, of powdered galls, and re- granulating it. EXTRACTS, to malce.—Take of the plant, root, or leaves you wish to make the extract from, any quantity, add sufficient water, and boil them gradually, then pour off the water and add a second quan- tity ; repeat the process until all the virtue is extracted, then mix the several decoctions, and evaporate at as low a temperature as possible, to the consistence of an extract. Extracts are better made in a water-bath, and inclose vessels, and for some very delicate articles, the evaporation may be carried on at a very low temperature, in a vacu- um, by surrounding the vessel with another containing sulphuric acid. Manufacturing druggists usually add to every seven pounds of ex- tract, gum arabic, 4- ounces; alco- hol, 1 ounce; olive oil, 1 ounce. This mixture gives the extract a gloss, and keeps it soft. EXTRA PUDDING. — Cut light bread into thin slices. Form into the shape of a pudding in a dish. Then add a layer of any pre- serve, then a slice of bread, and re- peat till the dish is full. Beat four or five eggs, and mix well with a pint of milk; then pour it over the bread and preserve, having pre- viously dusted the same with a coating of rice flour. Boil twenty- five minutes. EYE, Blood Shot.—Apply linen