WOR WOR 450 mineral, mixed together; divide it into six powders, and take one of them, in a little syrup, twice a day: when they are used work them off with a little rhubarb. Or, Jalap, quarter of an ounce; pow- dered rhubarb, quarter of an ounce; gamboge, two drachms; syrup of bear’s-foot, sufficient to make it into a paste ; then make it into or- dinary sized lozenges. Dose:— For a child three years old, half a lozenge; six years, one lozenge; and so on, according to years. Or, Spirits of turpentine, in doses of from 8 drops to a teaspoonful, in gruel sweetened. Or, Cowhage mixed with treacle. Give a child a teaspoonful fasting for 3 or 4 mornings successively— an adult a table-spoonful. Then give a purge. Powdered rust of iron is a good vermifuge. It expels the worms and strengthens the constitution. To a child six years old from 10 to 40 grains may be given. An adult may take from a J oz. It may be given in treacle or in beer. Dr. Rush says, “ Of all the worm med- icines that I have given I know none more safe and certain than this simple preparation of i.on.” It should always be followed by an aperient. The common male fern-root is a certain remedy for the tape-vtorm. Two or three drachms of the pow- dered root to he taken in the morn- ing, no supper having been taken the night before. It generally sickens a little. A brisk purgative is to be given a few hours after, which sometimes brings off the worm entire; if not, the same course must he followed at due in- tervals. For the success of this remedy, the root should he recently gathered; as after being kept long in the shops, its activity is dimin- ished or destroyed. W0RMS.—Take two tea-spoon- fuls of brandy, sweatened with loaf sugar, every morning. Or, a spoonful of the juice of lemons. Or, take two tea-spoonfuls of worm-seed mixed with treacle, for six mornings. Or, one, two, or three drachms of powdered fern- root boiled in mead. This kills both the flat and round worms. Repeat the medicine from time to time.— Wesley. WORM FEVER.—Boil a handful of rue and wormwood in water: forment the belly with the decoction, and apply the boiled herbs as a poultice; repeat the application night and morning. This frequently brings away worms from children who will take no internal medicine, and is like- wise serviceable if the fever be of the putrid kind.— Wesley. WORM SEEDS.—the seeds of this American plant form a powerful vermifuge. It speedily expels round and other worms from the intestines. The seeds are given in substance from 10 drains, or half a drachm, finely powdered, strewed on bread and butter, or made into an electuary with honey or treacle. After using some days, give an aperient, and the tonic bit- ters. In America they use the oil also. Five to ten drops of the oil mixed with sugar, are a common dose for a child. Or, from 12 drops for an adult. WORM SYRUP.—Senna, Carolina pink, of each 1 oz.; peach leaves, male fern, of each J oz.; kousso If oz. Powder, and add a cupful of pure water, near boiling; shake up in a bottle for a day; then add a cupful of spirit of wine. Shake up several times a day for a week, keeping the bottle in a warm place. Then add another cupful of hot water in which has