MAG 240 MAN and cover theta with clarified but- ler. They may bo potted like lobsters. See Lobster, potted. MACKEREL, soused. — Put together heads and tails in an earthen dish or pan. Season with chopped onions, black pepper, a pinch of allspice, and salt; add vinegar and water equally to cover the fish. Bake in the oven.—Her- rings, sprats, or any other cheap fish, are done in the same manner. MAGENTA DYE.-This splen- did colouring matter may be bought of the chemists. It is first-rate for dyeing silk, ribbons, &c. Direc- tions for use are given on each bottle. MAGGOTS IN SHEEP, to destroy.—Water, 1 quart ; spirit of turpentine, a table-spoonful; sub- limate of mercury, as much as will lie upon a shilling; cork in a bot- tle, with a quill through the cork, so that the mixture may come a little at a time. Shake before using. Pour a little of the mix- ture upon the spot where the mag- gots are, and they will creep upon the top of the wool, and fall off dead. Apply afterwards a little train oil to the place. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS, to preserve.—Put the largest in a panful of water over a slow fire; keep putting them down with a spoon, till the skins will come off with a penknife; put them in a fine thin syrup, and give them a gentle boil; take off, and turn them often in the syrup, or the outside will turn brown. When cold, set them over the fire again ; boil six min- utes ; then take off, and turn them often in the syrup till nearly cold. Take out and place on a flat china dish; strain the syrup through muslin; add the weight of the plums in fine sugar; boil, and skim well; then put in the plums; boil till they look clear; put them into jars or glasses; cover well with the syrup, or they will lose their colour; put brandy papers and a bladder over them. MAHOGANY COLOUR, to stain.—1. Take 2 ozs. of dragon’s blood, break it into pieces, and put it into a quart of spirits of wine ; to stand in a warm place ; shake often; when dissolved, it is ready for use. 2. Linseed oil, 2 pounds; alka- net, 3 ounces. Heat them together and macerate for six hours, then add resin, 2 ounces; bees’ wax, 2 ounces. Boiled oil may be advan- tageously used instead of linseed oil. 3. Brazil-wood (ground); water sufficient; add a little alum and potash. Boil. 4. Logwood, 1 part; water, 8 parts. Make a decoction and apply it to the wood; when dry, give it two or three coats of the following varnish: Dragon’s blood, 1 part; spirits of wine, 20 parts. Mix. MAHOGANY FURNITURE, to clean.—Three pennyworth of alkanet root, a pint of linseed oil; two pennyworth of rose-pink ; to stand in a vessel all night. Rub some of this mixture over the table or chairs, and let it stay an hour; then rub it well off with a linen cloth, and it will leave a beautiful gloss. MAHOGANY, to talce stains out of.—Mix 6 ozs. of spirits of salts, and § oz. salt of lemons to- gether. Drop a little on the stains, and rub it with a cork till the stains disappear. Then wash off immediately with cold water. MANDRAKE.—This plant is not so abundant in England as in America. It is a valuable plant, but requires skill and cqre in its application as a remedy. It is purgative, deobstruent, antibilious, anthelmintic, liydragogue, &c. It