dinary occasions, if in dread of sickness, lie down on the back at least a quarter of an hour before the vessel starts. No other posi- tion will do. Let the head, body, and back become, as it were, part of the vessel, participating in its motion without any muscular ef- fort. This precaution is often of itself sufficient. It will be of little use to assume this position after the sickness has commenced. It must be beforehand. At Naples I met a gentleman about to embark, who said he could not describe the agony he endured in the best weather. I told him to go to his berth while the vessel was still at anchor; to lie on his back and shut his eyes, and on no account to turn on his side. He took my advice, and next morning when we cast anchor at Cevita Vecchia, he joy- fully told me that, for the first time in his life, he had passed through a voyage without being sick. If the sickness comes on, neither eat food, nor drink soup, &c. The stomach, once it begins to go, will neither be equal to solid or fluid food, and, as the shortest means of getting rid of it, sends it back as it came ; but drink plenty of plain water, iced if you can get it: when after some time you be- gin to feel that you can swallow, then take a little champagne and water, or soup with cayenne pep- per, and you will soon feel comfort- able.—Dr. Corrigan. SEA-SICKNESS.—Take cam- phorated spirit, sal volatile, and Hoffman’s ether, a few drops, mixed in a small quantity of water, or upon a small lump of sugar. This often relieves when other prescriptions fail. The Neutral- izing Mixture is a good preventive. So is a tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in Half a pint of water. Take an aperient before a voyage. One of the best means of counter- acting the tendency to sea-sick- ness, is the assumption of the horizontal position. A little chlo- roform has lately been suggested as a good remedy,—5 to 10 drops on a piece of lump sugar. SEED CAKES.—Mix 8 lbs. of flour with i lb of sugar, £ oz. of allspice, and. a little ginger. Melt f lh. of butter with £ a pint of milk; when just warm, add £ of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minutes before it goes to the oven, add seeds or currants, and bake an hour and a half. SEED CAKES, Common.—To 6 lbs. of flour add 1 lb. of butter, | a lb. of sugar, and 1 oz. of carra- way seeds, mixed up with milk, and baked in a pretty hot oven. SEED SOWING.—A corres- pondent of the Gardeners’ Chronicle says, “ all flat seeds should be sown sideways, for if laid flat on the soil they are apt to rot; and if this misfortune does not befall them they never germinate so readily as those placed sideways. This ac- counts for so many failures amongst gourds, melons, cucumbers, &c. SEIDLITZ POWDER, in one paper.—One part of bicarbonate of soda, and two parts of bitartrate of soda. Each must be dried before they are mixed. Half a tea-spoon- ful dissolved in a tumbler of spring water, and drunk quickly is an ex- cellent thing for those who are thirsty in the morning. SENEKA, Decoction of.—Take of seneka rattle-snake root, 1 oz.; water, 1J pint. Boil down to one pint, and strain. It is very useful in dropsy, pleurisy, rheumatism, and disorders of the skin. Take an ounce or two three times a day. SENNA.—The leaves are a very useful purgative, operating mildly yet effectually ; yet they are apt to