CHE 105 CHE CHEESE SANDWICHES.— Take Cheshire cheese 3 parts, but- ter, 1 part, ham and veal 1 part each, and two eggs, a little salt, pepper, and mustard. Powder well in a mortar. Make into sand- wiches. It may be potted in a similar way, either with or without the meat; the eggs would require to be well boiled. CHEESE SOUP. Bread crumbs, | lb. sifted; 1 lb. of good Cheshire Cheese; simmer these together in a stew pan with some good broth; in another pan mix well together four yolks of eggs, and four spoonfuls of broth. Mix both when ready to serve. CHEMICAL SOAP.—Fullers Earth, 1 oz. powdered: moisten with a little spirit of turpentine; salt of tartar, 1 oz.; potass, 1 oz. Work the whole into a paste with a little soft soap. Form into squares. - Moisten grease, and with a little water rub the soap well on till it lathers; the spot will dis- appear. CHERRIES, iced. — Bruise 2 lbs. of cherries, put to them a pint of water; strain, and add sugar sufficient. See ice. CHERRIES, to jar.—Stone 12 lbs. of cherries; put them into the pan, with 3 lbs. of double refined sugar; and a quart of water; put on the fire till they begin to boil; take off to cool a little; then boil till they are tender; sprinkle with 2 lb. of refined sugar, afterwards, skim clean. Put all in a china bowl; let them stand in the syrup threo days, then drain, and take them singly, with the holes down- wards, on a wicker sieve, and set them on a warm stove to dry, turning them upon clean sieves. When dry enough, put a whito sheet of paper in the pan, and all the cherries, with another sheet at the top; put them on the fire till they sweat; cool, and put in boxes or jars to keep. CHERRY BRANDY.—Cher- ries, 36 lbs; half red and half black; squeeze them with the hands, and add 1| gallons of brandy. Let them infuse 24 hours; then put the bruised cherries and liquor into a canvass bag, a little at a time, and press it as long as it will run. Sweeten with fine sugar, and let it stand a month; bottle off, putting loaf sugar into every bottle. Another.—To every gallon of brandy put 4 lbs. of red cherries, 2 lbs. of black, 1 quart of raspberries, with a few cloves, a stick of cinna- mon, a little orange peel; closely stop for a month in a barrel; bottle off as before. CHERRY JAM. — Pick and stone 4 lbs. of May-duke cherries; press them through a sieve; then boil together half a pint of red currant or raspberry juice, and f lb. of white sugar, put the cherries into them while boiling; add 1 lb. of fine white sugar. Boil quickly 35 minutes, jar, and cover well. CHERRY JELLY.—Cherries, 5 lbs.; stone them; red currants, 2 lbs.; strain them, that the liquor may be clear; add 2 lbs. of sifted loaf sugar; and 2 ozs. of isinclass. CHERRY MARMALADE.— Take some very ripe cherries, cut off the stalks, and take out the stones; crush them, and boil them well; put them into a hand sieve, and force them through with a spatula, till the whole is pressed through and nothing remains but the skins; put it again upon the fire to dry; when reduced to half, weigh it, and add an equal weight of sugar; boil again; and when it threads between the fingers, it is finished. Hu. CHERRY PIE. Having made a good crust, lay a little of