BEETLE, House.—Take some small lumps of unslacked lime and put into the cracks or holes from which they issue; it will effectu- ally destroy them: or it may he scattered on the ground. Another method, is to sprinkle the floor at night with coarse red wafers, which they will greedily devour, and the red lead will act upon them as poison. Another method. Those who cannot procure a regular beetle trap, may make a very good subs- titute, by placing a bell-lipped tumbler upon the ground near their haunts, and run up a conical surface with sand to the lip of the glass ; then, after filling the glass about half-way up with beer, or sugar and water, suspend a little sugar itself in a thimble over the glass, horizontally with its mar- gin, and in the centre: you will find in their eagerness to get at the sugar, which is not within their reach, they will overstretch themselves, and falling into the liquor, which will attract them, you will destroy thousands. Hu. Or make a cake of sugar, drip- ping, flour, and any poison, as arsenic, powdered phosphorus, &c. Be careful to keep the poison out of the way of children, and domes- tic animals.—See Cockroaches. BEET ROOTS, to pickle.— Beet Roots are a very pretty gar- nish for made dishes, and are thus pickled. Boil the roots till they are tender, then take off the skins, cut them in slices, gimp them in the shape of wheels, or what form you please, and put them into a far. Take as much vinegar as ou think will cover them, and oil it with a little mace, a race of ginger sliced, and a few slices of horse-radish. Pour it hot upon your roots, and tie them down. Far. BETIIROOT.—An American plant. It stops inward bleeding from the kidneys, bladder, urethra, &c. It is good in fevers, coughs, asthma, consumption, taking a teaspoonful of the powdered root at a time; or it may be infused and taken. United with blood- root, and made into a poultice, it is effectual in gangrene, or incipi- ent mortification, ulcers, and sores. It restrains profuse menstruation, the whites, and it is an excellent astringent taken after child-birth for the uterine organs, employed as an enema. It may be obtained at the Medical Botanists. The pow'dered root is used a tea- spoonful at a time; or it is infused, to be drunk freely. This powder united with raspberry leaves, and made into tea is most effectual in diarrhoea, or laxity of the bowels. BIRD’S EYE, or Chile Vine- gar.—Nearly fill a bottle with cay- enne pepper pods, then pour in the best white vinegar, cork, and put on the hob for five or six days, then cork tightly. It improves with age. It is afirst-rate seasoner. BISCUITS, Plain. — Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and two ounces of sugar, and some milk into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth; roll very thin, and cut into bis- cuits. Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. Ru. BISCUITS, American.— Rub half a pound of butter into four pounds of flour, and a full pint of milk or -water. Well wet them up. Break your dough well, and bake them in a hot oven. They will be better with two ounces of sugar added. Cut out with the top of a wine-glass. These bis- cuits are made light by dissolving a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt of tartar in half a cupful of wa- ter, and adding to the mixture. BISCUITS, a la duchesse.—