LAM LAM 220 quick oven one hour and a half. Take a pint of gravy, and the oys- ter liquor, a gill of port wine, a little grated nutmeg, with the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten; stir one way all the time. When it boils pour it into the pie. LAMB SAUCE.—Mix a little butter with shred parsley, shalots, and crumbs of bread, grated fine. Put the whole into a stew-pan with a cupful of good stock, and one of sherry; season with pepper, salt, &c. and squeeze a lemon in- to it. LAMB, SHOULDER OF.— Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat; braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. Serve with sorrel-sauce under the lamb. LAMB STEAKS.—Fry them of a beautiful brown; when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crimp- ed parsley. Mutton or lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered capers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. LAMB STEAKS, to dress white.—Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal gravy; put the steaks into it; mix some mushroom-powder, a cup of cream, and a bit of flour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir, and get hot. Just before taking it up, put in a few white mushrooms. LAMB STEAKS, to dress brown.—Season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped parsley; but dip them first into egg: fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and butter; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, and some oysters; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm : let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. L AM B- STON E S, fricasseed. — Skin and wash, then dry and flour them; fry brown in hog’s lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you make the sauce: thick- en half a pint of veal gravy with a little flour and butter, adding a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten in two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir till it is hot, and looks white; but don’t let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a hot dish and cover. LAMB-STONES, and Sweet breads.—Blanch some lambstones, parboil, and slice. Flour two or three sweetbreads; if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together with a few oysters, of a fine brown. Pour the butter off; and add a pint of good gravy, some aspara- gus-tops, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Sim- mer ten minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till' of a fine thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. LAMB’S SWEETBREADS— Blanch them, and put a short time into cold water. Put them into a stew-pan with a cupful of broth, pepper, salt, a bunch of small onions, and a blade of mace; stir in it a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, and a little minced parsley