SPO SPI 403 A little salt and water given will often check spitting of blood, when it comes on. Put the feet in warm water, and give as above, the elixir of vitriol, &c. Give al- so ipecacuanha powder in small doses, of from one to two grains every four hours. Emetics have been given in this disease with advantage by Dr. Robinson, and still more lately by Dr. Stoll, of Vienna, who observes, that in discharges of blood from the lungs, ipecacuanha powder often acts like a charm, seeming to close the open vessels sooner and more effectually than any i other remedy. The good effects ] of this remedy are probably the consequence of the compression the lungs undergo during vomit- ing, from the action of the dia- phragm and expiratory muscles. The recurrence of haemoptysis should be prevented by invigora- ting the lungs and purifying the blood, and by the use of cooling and astringent medibines. Keep in the mouth a little alum, or saltpetre. The patient should : participate very freely of acidulous fruits ; as, roasted apples, oranges, lemons, &c. Alcoholic drinks i should he strictly forbidden. A decoction of bark with lemon juice or a few drops of elixir of vitriol, is of great service. When the symptoms are severe, give 8 or 10 drops of the tincture of digitalis, or a drachm of nitre dissolved in cold water, and after- wards a compound of ipecacuanha i and Glauber’s salt. In extreme cases, give from 10 to 20 drops of elixir of vitriol every twohours ; or give the vapour bath, and an in- jection, and place hot bricks to the feet in bed. Sugar of lead, 2 grains; opium, j of a grain, made into a pill with a little honey, or treacle and liquorice powder, may be given every five hours. The temporary application of cloths dipped in cold water to the geni- tals will check spitting of blood. Ice is still better. Mustard plas- ters applied to the legs and feet have been recommended, and found beneficial. The diet must be light and easy of digestion. The patient must avoid much speaking, and all mus- cular exertion, and all cold and damp. SPITTING of BLOOD. Take a tea-cupful of stewed prunes at lying down for two or three nights.—Or, two tea-spoonfuls of nettle-juice every morning, and a large cup of decoction of nettles at night, for a week.—Or, 3 spoon- fuls of sage-juice in a little honey. —Or, half a tea-spoonful of Bar- badoes tar, on a piece of lump sugar at night. It commonly cures at once. Infusion of red roses, 5 ozs.; syrup of poppy, £ oz.; diluted sulphuric acid, 20 drops. Mix. Two tea-spoonfuls three or four times a day.— Wesley. SPONGE BISCUITS.—Beat the yolks of ten eggs half an hour. Add. 1£ lb. of sugar sifted, and whisk it well till it rises in bubbles. Then beat the whites to a strong froth, and whisk them well with the sugar and yolks. Beat in 14 ozs. of flour, with the rinds of two lemons grated. Sprinkle sugar upon them. Bake in moulds, in a hot oven, but do not close it. Bake half an hour. Far. SPONGE CAKE.—Weigh 10 eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of 6 in flour ; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingre- dients, and beat them well half' an hour. Bake an hour. Another, without butter.—Dry