CAT CAT 99 be disguised. A good way is to take it in meal and water, or bar- ley water, or brandy and water, or in milk well mixed, or in coffee, or in orange juice. Some eat a little orange or lemon peel, previously to taking it. CASTOR OIL, French way of giving it to Children.—Pour the oil into a pan over a moderate tire; break an egg into it, and stir up; when it is done, add a little salt or sugar, or some currant jelly. The sick child will eat it agreeably, and never discover the disguise. CASTS of PLASTER, to hard- en—Immerse them in a solution of alum to about 84° Fall., for about five hours ; lib. of alum dissolved in 4 or 5 gallons of water will form the solution. CATARRH.—This comprises a cold in the head, or influenza.— Both begin with chilliness, sneez- ing, bad appetite, running at the nose, red and watery eyes, fever, &c. It is inflammation of the mu- | cus membrane of the nostrils, or bronchial passages. Sometimes there is a slight cough only, and sometimes a harrassing one. It is caused by exposure to cold or wet, damp, epidemic poison. To cure, let the diet be low, drink toast and water, warm gruel, or barley water acidulated with a little lemon or cream of tartar. Bathe the feet at bed-time in hot water. Use the vapour bath, or wrap hot bricks jn cloths or flannels dipped in vine- gar and water, to the feet and sides. Should the cough be troublesome, take a cough pill or the pulmonary syrup. CATECHU-An extract obtain- ed from an acacia tree, growing in Hindostan.—It is a most valuable astringent in looseness, dysentery, or flux, bleeding from the anus or womb, the whites, and obstinate coughs. It makes an excellent gargle for relaxation of the uvula, or the body which hangs down from the soft part of the palate. It may be sucked in the mouth for that purpose, and for curing sponginess of the gums. It makes an excellent dentrifice, com- bined with Peruvian bark and myrrh. The extract, say 2i ozs.; 2 ozs. resin; 10 ozs. of olive oil, with a very little water; is most effica- cious in ulcers. Melt and mix. CATERPILLARS, to destroy. Syringe the trees with decoction of tobacco, or a solution of alum, or dust the tree with dust from the common road, and in a day or two wash off with clean water. CATHARTICS. — Medicines increasing the discharge from the bowels. CATHARTIC POWDER.— Best senna, ginger, camomile flowers, of each 1 oz.; jalap, \ oz. Powder fine, and mix well. Take from half to a teaspoonful in warm water or tea. This is a valuable aperient; it is powerful, and yet mild ; effectually cleanses the bow- els, and produces a healthy action in them, and also upon the liver. CATNEP.-An American plant. —It is carminative, diaphoretic, and refrigerant. It produces per- spiration effectually, and is most useful in colds ; throwing off fever, and restoring to health rapidly. It is good for nervous complaints, indigestion, wind, colic, and is very suitable for infants and children in belly-ache, flatulency, &c. Dose; infuse a small quantity in a pint of boiling water. It is a good fomenter in swellings. CATTLE, TO ASCERTAIN THE WEIGHT OF.—Measure the girt close behind the shoulder, and the length from the fore part of the shoulder-blade along the back to the bone at the tail, which