BOW BON 73 Should the first application not succeed, the operation must be re- peated two or three times, or as often as may be necessary for its removal. To remove Ink spots apply strong muriatic acid, or spirits of salts. BOILS.—Poultice the boil, and paint it with aqueous Extract of Opium, or Tincture of Iodine, or the Rheumatic Liquid, (which see) frequently. Renew the process every two or three hours. A piece of lint soaked in olive oil may be strapped over the boil, if the per- son is necessitated to do business. An aperient may he proper, except in weakness, when it is best to give weak Elixir of Vitriol and Quinine. Or, give two of the Alterative Rills night and morn- ing, and the Compound decoction of Sarsaparilla. If a boil breaks, apply the Black Salve. BOILS.—Apply a little Venice Turpentine. Or, an equal quan- tity of soap and brown sugar well mixed. Or, a plaster of honey and flour. Or, of figs. Or, a little saffron in a white bread poultice. Or, a tablespoonful of yeast in a glass of water twice a day. Take an aperient.-WESLEY. BONESET. An American plant, and in America it is a reg- ular family medicine. It posses- ses emetic, expectorant, and sudo- rific properties. As a laxative it acts gently without irritating the bowels. In fevers it is very valu- able, relaxing the bowels and sub- duing the febrile symptoms. In rheumatism and influenza it has a good effect. The cold infusion is an excellent tonic. To produce a vomit, take one ounce of the powdered leaves, and infuse in a pint of hot water. Drink a cupful every fifteen minutes until it takes effect. To promote perspiration, take small doses frequently. The root of the purple Boneset infused is most excellent for gra- vel, stone in the bladder, and all obstructions in the kidneys, &c. BORAGE. See Robinson's Herbal. All parts of this plant contain much mucilage; the stem and leaves contain the nitrate of otassa, and other saline qualities, t is tonic, demulcent; it is good in rheumatic affections, promoting perspiration. It is very cooling in fevers, &c. The flowers are sometimes made into a healing ointment. BOTTLES, to purify.—Rinse with lime water, or water and powdered charcoal. BOTTLE SEALING WAX. —Rosin and Linseed oil, and any colour boiled together, and then moulded. Boil over a slow fire, and carefully, to prevent ignition. BOWEL COMPLAINT. Tincture of Rhubarb, 1 oz.; Syrup of Rhubarb, 11 oz.; Laudanum, oz.; Essence of Peppermint, f oz.; mix in half a quartern of the best brandy, and cork tightly. When required for use, take two teaspoonfuls in half a glass of warm water, and the pain will be almost instantly remedied. Sometimes sicknesss and vomiting are present. In that case take a wine-glassful of soda water, with two teaspoon- fuls of brandy every hour or oft- ner. One drachm of the tincture of assafoetida, 20 or 30 drops of laudanum, aromatic powder, 2 drachms; oil of peppermint, 6 drops; prepared chalk, 1 ounce, will remove the pain and griping in the stomach and bowels. If not, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. For bowel complaints in chil- dren, give tincture of kino, from 6 to 30 drops in a little warm water sweetened. BOWELS.—Keep them regular.