216 KID KIN oven, or in n dutch oven before tho fire. KIDNEY, (beef) Fried. Chop tho kidney with n little veal and ham, and butter or lard. Sea- son as you like with white pepper, cayenne, and salt. To make them into balls add rice flour and yolk of egg. Fry in lard or butter. Dish; pour the gravy upon them, and serve with toasted bread, a.n. KIDNEY PUDDING. If kidney, split and soak it, and sea- son that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk; roll it, and line a basin with some; put the kidney or steaks in, cover with paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth and boil a con- siderable time. KIDNEY, YEAL, to fry.— Chop veal kidney, and some of the fat; also a little leek or onion, pep- per, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Calf’s heart, stuff and roast as a beast’s heart, or sliced, make it in- to a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. Run. KIDNEYS, inflammation of.— It is indicated by chilliness and fever, with severe piercing pains, sometimes dull, with a sense of weight over the kidney inflamed. The urine is very high coloured, and is partially or wholly suppres- sed, and sometimes it is bloody. Sometimes faintness, nausea, vom- iting, hiccup, and relax are present. It may be caused by calculus, external blows, falls, hard riding, &c. Persons of intemperate habits are very liable to diseases of the kidneys. Gin drinkers, on account of the admixture of turpentine with that spirit, often pay dear for their tippling. Treatment.—In severe cases the patient should lie in bed. The bowels should be cleared by gentle aperients and injections. If there is coldness of tho surface and ex- trcmeties, bathe the feet in warm water. Drink decoctions of the diuretic plants; as, horsemint, marsh-mallow, broom tops, pars- ley, pennyroyal, &c. Take also tho diuretic drops. Diluents may also be drunk; the best is common barley-water. Make a strong in- fusion of parsley, two parts; of pennyroyal. 1 part, and half a cup- ful of best Hollands gin, and f oz. of sweet nitre, all mixed; take at three times; it often acts effectu- ally. Externally, apply cayenne pepper simmered in vinegar, and add 30 drops of laudanum. The Rheumatic Liniment will be of great service. To prevent vomit- ing, drink peppermint tea, with a little bicarbonate of potass. KING’S CAKE.—The finest flour, 5 lbs.; salt, If teaspoonful; cinnamon, f oz.; nutmeg, f oz.; mace, 1 drachm; all finely pow- dered. Add 14 ozs. of sugar, and gradually work well into the mass If lb. of fresh butter. Then add 6 eggs, a quart of cream, half a pint of good yeast, a f pint of sher- ry wine, and two table-spoonfuls of orange water. All must be mixed and kneaded well together. After it has stood a little, knead in 2 lbs. of clean-picked raisins stoned and chopped, and 2 or 3 lbs. of cun-ants. Bake for three hours in a gentle oven; when baked, rub the surface with white of an egg and rose-wa- ter, and sift over it finely powder- ed sugar. KING’S EVIL.—See Scrofula. KINO.—It is the concrete juice of an Indian tree. It is a power- ful astringent similar to catechu. It is applied externally to ulcers, and is used as a gargle for relaxed uvula, sore throat, &c. It is good for relax, whites, and internal bleedings. Tho dose of the gum is Horn 10 grains to half a drachm;