FRI FRE 171 i ■■ powdered. This must be kept in a cool place, well corked, as must the first powder. For use put an equal quantity of these two pow- ders into the ice pail, and pour on them as much cold spring water as will dissolve them. FRENCH BEANS. —See ; Beans. FRENCH BEANS for winter use.—Put into boiling water for a minute, then into cold, drain, and dry them. Put at the bottom of a ; large earthen vessel, a two inch layer of salt, then a layer of beans, ! and so proceed till it is filled, the top layer always to be salt. Cover ; well. When you take out, fill the vacancy with salt. In cooking, soak them all the previous night, and add a little carbonate of soda. FRENCH BEANS, Pickled. See page 47. FRENCH BREAD.—Mix the yolks of three, and the whites of two eggs with a quarter of a peck of flour, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast, as much milk, warm, as will work it into a thin light dough. Do not knead it, but sta- rt about; put into dishes or tins, to rise; then turn them out into a quick oven; rasp when done. FRENCH BREAD.—See page 76. FRENCH BROWN BREAD. —Sour milk, 1 quart; salt, 1 tea- spoonful; carbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful; and half a tea-cup of treacle put into the milk. Thicken with unsifted or ground-down flour, and bake immediately. FRENCH POLISH, and the art of Staining and Graining.— Take 2 ozs. of wood naptha, 1 oz. of best shellac, 1 drachm gum ben- zoin ; crush the gums, mix them with the naptha in a bottle; shake them frequently till dissolved ; it is then ready for use. This is the I clear polish. Take a little cotton wool, apply a little of the polish to it, cover it tightly with a linen rag, to which apply a drop of lin- seed oil, to prevent it from sticking to the wood; use your rubber gent- ly, polishing from a centre in a circular manner; finish with a drop of spirits of wine on a clean rubber, which will extract the oil. Wood may be stained or grained any colour or design, by mixing it with the polish, or dipping the rubber in the colour (finely pow- dered), at the time you apply the polish with the cotton. To pro- duce a red: dip the cotton into dragon’s blood (finely powdered), immediately applying the polish; then cover with the linen, and polish. For yellow: use the best chrome yellow. For blue: ultra- marine blue, or indigo. For black; ivory, or lamp-black, &c. Grain- ing is produced by touching or streaking the wood with the colour, as above, in irregular lines or marks, and in such shapes as the fancy may suggest, then finish- ing it with a coat of clear polish. FRENCH ROLLS.—Rub 1 oz. of butter into 1 lb. of flour, mix one egg, well beaten, a little yeast, not bitter, as much milk as will make a dough of a middling stiff- ness; beat it well, but do not knead, let it rise; bake on tins quick. FRIAR’S BALSAM.— Gum Benzoin, 31 ozs.; strained Storax, 2| ozs.; Balsam of Tolu, 10 drs.; aloes, 5 drs.; rectified spirit, 2 pints; let it stand for 14 days, shaking oft before using. A good application for wounds and cuts; and such was very effectual in the hands of the oldfriars. Internally, it is stimulant, expectorant, and antispasmodic, and is useful in asthma, catarrh, consumption, and languid circulation. 1/ose, | a drachm on loaf sugar.