EYE EYE 160 rags dipped in cold water for two or three hours. Or, apply boi- led Hyssop as a poultice. Very efficacious.-- Wesley. EYE-BRIGHT. —This plant is useful in affections of the eyes, as it improves the vision, especial- ly in old age. See Robinson's herbal. EYES, bruised. — Frequently bathe in water with a little carbon- ate of soda dissolved in.—Or apply bread poultices pretty warm, change often.—Or foment with a decoction of stramonium leaves, and then bind them on the eye.— Or use slippery elm poultices. Gu. EYE-SALVE.—White or yel- low wax, | oz.; red precipitate, 3 drachms; prepared tutty, or pure zinc powdered, 1 drachm; lard, 4 ozs. Melt and mix. Add 11- drs. of camphor dissolved in oil. EYES, Inflammation of.—Mix bread crumbs with the white of an egg, three drops of laudanum, three drops of brandy, and a very little salt. Apply in a bag of thin soft linen or muslin. It is better to apply it at night when lying- down. It always affords relief.— Drink also eve-bright tea, and wash the eyes with it. EYE, Films.—Mix juiceof Eye- bright, and juice of Ground Ivy with a little honey, and 2 or 3 grains of Bay Salt. Drop it in morning and evening. EYE, Hot Humours. — Apply a few drops of double refined sugar melted in brandy. Or, boil a handful of bramble leaves with a liitle alum in a quart of spring water, to a pint. Drop this fre- quently into the eye. This like- wise speedily cures cancers or any sores. EYE, orEYELIDS inflamed.— Apply as a poultice, boiled, roasted, or rotten apples warm.—Or, worm- wood tops with the yolk of an egg. This will hardly fail. Or, beat up tho white of an egg with two spoonfuls of white rose-water into a white froth. Apply this on a fine rag, changing it so that it may not grow dry till the eye or eye-lid is well.—Tried. Or, dissolve an ounce of fine gum arabic in 3 spoonfuls of spring water; put a drop into tho inner comer of the eye, from the point of a hair pencil, four or five times a- day. At the same time take as much saltpetre as will lie upon a sixpence, dissplved in a glass of water, three or four times a-day; abstaining from all liquors till cured. White bread poultices ap- plied to the eyes in an inflamed state often occasion blindness. EYE-LID, Removing foreign bodies from beneath the.—M. Re- nard, in the case of small move- able bodies which become entangled beneath the upper eyelid, recom- mends the following simple proce- dure, which will often dispense with all others. Take hold of the upper eyelid near its angles with the index finger and thumb of each hand, draw it gently forwards and as low down as possible over the lower eyelid, and retain it in this position for about a minute, taking care to prevent the tears from flowing out. When, at the end of this time, you allow the eyelid to resume its place, a flood of tears washes out the foreign bo- dy, which will be found adhering to, or near to, the lower eyelid. EYE POULTICE. — Stir two drachms of powdered alum in the powdered whites of two eggs till a coagulum be formed. Place it between a piece of soft linen rag, and apply it. Very applicable for inflamed eyes attended with a pur- ulent discharge, and for chilblains. EYES, good for the.—To give brilliancy to tho eyes, shut them