SPI 402 SP1 pepper, and salt, and boil all to- gether. Have ready some suet- dumplings, the size of a walnut; and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them all into it. The suet must not be shred too fine. SPIRITS of MINDERERUS. —Take volatile sal ammoniac, any quantity. Pour on it gradually distilled vinegar till the efferves- cence ceases. This medicine is useful in promoting a discharge by the skin and urinary passages. It is also a good external application in strains and bruises. When in- tended to raise a sweat, half an ounce of it in a cup of warm gruel, may be given to the patient in bed every hour till it has the desired sffsct SPIRIT VARNISH.—Strong alcohol, 32 parts; pure mastic, 4 parts; sandarach, 3 parts; clear Venice turpentine, 2 parts; coarse- ly powdered glass, 4 parts. Dis- solve. SPITTING OF BLOOD. In cases of spitting of blood, it is often difficult to determine whether it proceeds from the internal sur- face of the mouth, from the fauces, from the stomach, or from the lungs. When the blood is of a florid or frothy appearance, and brought up with more or less coughing, preceded by rigours, a short tickling cough, a saltish taste, anxiety, and tightness across the chest, its source is the lungs. The blood proceeding from the lungs is usually of a florid colour, and mixed with a little frothy mucous only. It may be distin- guished from bleeding from the stomach, by its being raised by hacking or coughing, and by its florid and frothy appearance ; that from the stomach is vomited in considerable quantities, and is of a dark colour. What is strictly meant by spit- ting of blood, is when the blood is discharged from a ruptured vessel in the lungs, which is technically termed Haemoptysis. It occurs generally from the age of 16 to 35. It is often an hereditary disease, which implies a peculiar and faulty conformation. It happens to per- sons who discover the smallest capacity of the lungs, by the nar- rowness of the chest, and by the prominency of their shoulders, an evidence of difficult respiration. It occurs in persons of a slender delicate make; to persons of much sensibility and irritability, and whose bodies are of a delicate tex- ture. It arises sometimes from the stoppage of the menstrual flux, from plethora, and violent exer- cise of the lungs. One great cause of haemoptysis is, the deposition of scrofulous matter in the substance of the lungs, forming tubercles. The blood-vessels being partially dis- tended by the pressure of tuber- cles, are easily ruptured by cough, or bodily exertion. Treatment.—Moderate the dis- charge of blood by avoiding what- ever tends to irritate the body and increase the action of the heart. A low diet should be strictly ob- served, and external heat and bodily exercise avoided; the air of the room should be cool, and the drink (which should consist chiefly of barley-water, acidulated with lemon-juice) taken cold, and the patient not suffered to exert his voice. After the operation of a little gentle aperient medicine, as lenitive electuary, or an infu- sion of senna, with a little cream of tartar dissolved in it, take 10 drops of laudanum, and 10 drops of elixir of vitriol in half a cupful of cold water. If there is no cough, the laudanum may be omitted.