CAK 91 CAK of baking powder. Bake in patty tins. CAKES, Rice.— Mix 10 ozs. of ground rice, 3 ozs. of flour, \ lb. of fine sugar; sift by degrees into seven well beaten eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred extremely fine; mix the whole well in a stew- pan over a slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake forty minutes. Another.—Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the peels of two lemons grated. Mix 1 lb. of rice flour, and \ lb of flour, and 1 lb. of sugar sifted; then beat it well with the eggs for an hour, with a wooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and put it in at the oven mouth for an hour and a half. CAKE, RICH, Butter for.— For large and rich cakes the di- rections are, to heat the butter to a cream; but they are quite as light when it is cut small and gently melted with just so much heat as will dissolve it. If it be shaken round in a saucepan, previously warmed, and held near the fire for a short time, it will soon be lique- fied ; it must not he hot when ad- ded gradually to the other ingre- dients. To cream butter, drain the water well from it, after it is cut, soften it a little before the fire, if hard, and then with the back of a large wooden spoon, beat it till it resembles thick cream. When prepared thus, the sugar is added to it first, and then the other in- gredients in succession. CAKE, Short.—Rub into 1 lb. of dried flour, 4 ozs. of butter, four ounces of white powder-sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and carraways into the rest. Cut as before, and bake on tins. CAKES, Shrewsbury. Into 1 lb. of flour rub 1 lb. of butter, and 6 ozs. of sugar; make a hole in the middle, into which break two or three eggs; add milk to form a paste; roll out one-eighth of an inch thick, and cut into small cakes ; bake in a slow oven. CAKE, Spanish.—Take 12 eggs, f lb. of fine sugar, and mill them in a chocolate mill till they are of a lather; mix in 1 lb. of flour, i lb. of pounded almonds, 2 ozs. each of candied orange-peel and citron, four spoonfuls of orange-flower water, \ or., of cinnamon, and a glass of wine. Bake it in a slow oven. CAKES, Sugar.—Take a quart- er of a pound of butter well work- ed ; mix it with a pound of brown sugar, an egg well beat, and as much flour, as it will take to make it stiff: roll it thin, and cut with a tin mould; bake the cakes in a slow oven. CAKES, Tunbridge.-VvB 6 ozs. of butter into 1 lb. of flour; then mix 6 ozs. of sugar, beat and strain two eggs, and make all into a paste. Roll it very thin, and cut with the top of a glass; prick them, and cover with carraways, or wash with the white of an egg, and sift white sugar over. CAKE, Victoria.—Boil |oz. of saffron in a pint of water; strain, add loaf sugar, 1 lb., then beat up six eggs in the sugar and water; rub j lb. of fresh butter in 1 lb. of flour, mix this with the rest, adding 1 lb. of currants, and 1 oz. of can- died orange and lemon peel cut small. Make like a large bun, put in on an iron plate, and bake two hours and a quarter. CAKES, Water.—Dry 3 lbs. of fine flour, rub it into 1 lb. of sugar sifted, 1 lb. of butter, and 1 oz. of carraway seed. Make it into a paste with f of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into