383 SIL SHR into pills, with a sufficient quan- tity of tar; take four large pills when going to rest. This is an incomparable medicine for an t asthma. SHRIMPS, to choose.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. SHRIMPS, to butter. Take them out of the shells; and warm 1 them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two and serve with sippets; or with a cream sauce instead of brown. SHRIMPS, to pot. When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold, cover with butter. SHRIMP PIE.—Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two or three anchovies; mix these with the spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp sherry wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. SHRIMP SAUCE.—Pick the shrimps, and put them into a stew- pan with a little gravy. When hot, pour in some melted butter and some anchovy sauce; add a little lemon pickle, and a trifle of cayenne. SHRUB, Brandy.—Take 8 ozs. of citric acid, 1 gallon of porter, 4 gallons of raisin wine, 2 quarts of orange flower water, 5 gallons of good brandy, 6 gallons of water; this will produce 16 gallons. Dis- solve the citric acid in the water; then add the brandy; next, mix the raisin wine, porter, and orange flower water, and in a week or 10 days it will be ready for drinking. SHRUB, Bum.—Leave out of the above the brandy and porter, and add one gallon more of raisin wine, 6 lbs. of honey, and 5 or 6 gallons of good rum. Add lemons if you like. Less quantities may be made. SHRUB, Lemonade.—Take the juice of 10 lemons, 4 ozs. of the juice of barberries, 2 ozs. of loaf sugar, and 1 pint of sherry wine, a pint of brandy, and a quart of wa- ter. Mix with water as you like. SHRUB, White Currant.-Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar as for jelly; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of rum, and two pounds of lump-su- gar ; strain through a jelly-bag. SICK ROOMS, Cautions in vis- iting.—Never enter a sick room in a state of perspiration, for as soon as the body becomes cold, it may absorb the infection or disease.— Do not visit a sick person with an empty stomach, as it disposes the system more readily to receive in- fection.—In a sick room, stand where the air passes from the door or window to the bed of the dis- eased. When poisonous vapour is much diluted with fresh air, it is not noxious.—Tbe windows of a sick room, small and confined, should not be closed ; if the wind is cold, nearly close the curtains of the bed.—Remove all dirty cloths, clothes, and discharges, as soon as possible.—Let the visitor have about his person camphor, &c.— After leaving an infectious room, a person should continue in the open air some time before he enters his own dwelling. SILK, to clean.—Steep first in cold water, and wash in a hot lather made of soft soap. Then to