343 RAB RAB thick over the bread; put it into a Dutch oven before the fire to brown. Serve it hot. RABBIT, Scotch.—Toast a piece of bread on both sides ; but- ter it; cut a slice of cheese the size of the bread; toast it on both sides, and lay it on the bread. RABBIT, Welsh.—Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it; toast a slice of Cheshire cheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, and toast the other with a salamander; rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. RABBITS, en Casserole.—Cut them in quarters, and lard them or not; dredge them well with flour, and fry them; put them into a pipkin with a quart of common stock, a glass of sherry, pepper, salt, sweet herbs, and butter roiled in flour; cover close, and stew them i half an hour, dish, and pom- the same over, garnish with Seville oranges, sliced. RABBITS, en Matelote.—Pre- pare two rabbits as for fricassee; ut them with as many slices of aeon, as there are of rabbits, into a stewpan with half a pint of stock, 24 small onions, and half a bottle of mushrooms; cover with paper, and set it on a stove, to simmer an hour. Take the rabbit, and lay it on a dish; skim off the fat, and reduce the liquor nearly to a glaze; put cullis to it; give it a boil; take I it from the tire, and squeeze half a lemon; add cayenne pepper, and a little sugar; pour it over the rab- bit ; garnish with paste. RABBIT, to blanch.—Set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold 1 water, and let it boil; then take it out, and put it into cold water for a few minutes. RABBITS, to boil.—Take out ' the liver, and dress it separately; : and to insure whiteness of flesh, let the rabbits soak for 10 minutes in tepid water. Half an hour’s boiling will be sufficient for those of moderate size, more if they are larger. Smother with onion sauce, chop the liver very fine, and serve it in a sauce-boat; if you place the sauce round it, it may prevent those who dislike the flavour from partaking of the dish. RABBITS, to fricassee brown. —Cut the rabbits as for eating; fry them in butter, a light brown; put them in a tossing-pan with a pint of water, a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the same of browning, one anchovy, a slice of lemon, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste; stew them over a slow fire till they are done enough; thicken the gravy, and strain it; dish up the rabbits, and pour the gravy over them. RABBITS, to fricassee white.— Cut, and put into a tossing-pan, as before, with a pint of veal gravy, a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, one anchovy, a slice of lemon, a little beaten mace, cayenne pepper, and salt; stew them over a slow fire; when they are done enough, thick- en with flour and butter; strain it; then add the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a gill of cream, and a little nutmeg grated in. Do not let it boil. RABBITS, to florentine.—Skin two young rabbits; but leave on the ears; take out the bones, leav- ing the head whole; lay them fiat; make a forcemeat of a 5 lb. of ba- con, scraped; add to the bacon the crumbs of a penny loaf, a little lemon, thyme, or lemon-peel, shred fine, parsley chopped small, nut- meg, cayenne, and salt; mix them up together with an egg, and spread it over the rabbits; roll them up to the head ; skewer them straight; close the ends, to keep the force- meat in; skewer the ears back.