SAU SAR 369 grated cheese, equal portions, with a little mustard; beat them in a mortar into one mass ; spread this mixture upon slices of bread; then put on shoes of ham, or any kind of meat; cover with another piece of bread, the size of the first. Add salt if necessary. SARAGOSSA WINE, or En- glish Sack.—To every quart of wa- ter, put a sprig of rue, and to every gallon a handful of fennel root; boil half an hour; strain off, and to every gallon of liquor, put 3 lbs. : of honey; boil it two hours, and skim well; pour it into the cask for a year, then bottle it. S AR S A P A El L L A. - T his plant is a native of America. It has a mild, bitterish, and glutinous taste, not at all disagreeable. It is heal- ing, pectoral, sudorific, stimulant, diaphoretic, cordial. An infusion or decoction is good for all diseases of the blood, for scrofula, swellings, chronic rheumatism, local pains, and cutaneous affections. As a pectoral, it may be used in syrups, cordials, decoctions, &c., and lias been found useful in coughs, ca- i tarrhs, languor, debility, &c. For decoction, 3 ozs. of the root should be used for making a quart of the decoction; bruise the root, and pour upon it 3 pints of boiling water; let it stand a night, then boil down to a quart, and strain. A little liquorice root, or cinnamon, or sassafras, may be added to the decoction before it is taken from the fire; or, a little cinnamon wa- ter may be added after straining. SARSAPARILLA, Decoction of.—Take fresh sarsaparilla root, sliced and bruised 2 ozs.; shavings of guaiacum wood, 1 oz. Boil over I a slow fire in 3 quarts of water, to 'one, adding, towards the end, \ an oz. of sassafras wood, and 3 drachms of liquorice. Strain the decoclion. Take from half a pint to a quart per day. This decoction strengthens the stomach, and restores fresh vigour to habits emaciated by the venereal disease. It may also be taken in the rheumatism, and cutaneous disorders proceeding from foulness of the blood. It may be taken from a half to two quarts in a day. SATIN AND SILKS, to clean. ■—French chalk must first be strew- ed over them, and then well brush- ed off with a hard brush. Should the satin not be sufficiently clean- sed by the first dusting, it may be done a second time, and it will clean and beautify the satin. The more it is brushed the better. SAUCE, a la Cruster, for fish. —Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a pound of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, (namely—savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted marjor- am,) and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Sim- mer all gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use : the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the but- ter while melting. SAUCE a la Maitre d' Hotel.— Put a piece of butter into a sauce- pan with somehashedparsley, some tarragon leaves, one or two leaves of balm, with salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice; mix the whole with a wooden spoon, until they are well incorporated. SAUCE a la Matelote.—Put in- to a saucepan a ladleful of reduced cullis, or broth; put in small onions, which have been fried in butter, with some dressed mush- rooms, and artichoke bottoms. When ready to serve, put in but- x