226 LEM LEM them into the dish ; stir well toge- ther ; set on a slow fire to bake as a custard; when it is enough, grate the rind of a lemon over the top; brown it over with a sala- mander. Anolher.—Beat up the yolks of 8 eggs till quite white; put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to taste; stir on the fire till thick enough; then add a glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy. Give the whole one scald, and put it into cups to be eaten cold. LEMON DROPS.—Sifted loaf sugar, | lb.; squeeze 3 or 4 lemons over it; mix it well with a spoon, till it makes a thickish paste; then drop it upon writing paper about the size of a sixpence; place in a slightly warm oven to dry, and then remove from the paper. LEMON DUMPLINGS. Two table-spoonfuls of flour; bread crumbs, \ lb.; beef suet, 6 ozs.; the grated rind of a large lemon; sugar, pounded, 4 ozs.; 4 eggs well beaten, and strained, and the juice of three lemons strained. Make into dumplings, and boil in a cloth one hour. LEMON HONEY-COMB.— Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises put it on the lemon juice. Do it the day before it is to be used. LEMON JELLY.—Clarify 2 ozs. of isinglass in 3 gills of water, add f lb. of loaf sugar, and the rinds of 2i lemons cut very thin, squeeze the juice of five lemons; strain through muslin, then stir into cool sugar and isinglass, take out the peel, boil five minutes, and when cool pour into moulds, and place in ice. In peeling lemons care should be taken not to cut be- low the colour. LEMONS, to preserve in jelly. Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and scrape out the pulp. Tie each separately in muslin, and lay in spring water two days, changing twice a day; then boil them tender on a slow fire. Keep them covered to the last. To every pound of fruit weigh two of double refined sugar, and one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the lemon to a syrup, clarify, skim well, and cool; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour; if not clear, do this daily till they are done. Pare and core some green pip- pins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them; don’t break them; strain the water through a jelly- bag till clear; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined su- gar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and turning each with the hole upwards in ajar, pour the apple jelly over it. The bits cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper. LEMON JUICE, to purify.— Add 1 oz. of powdered charcoal to a quart of lemon juice; after stand- ing 12 hours,filter the juice through fine muslin. It will keep good several years in a cellar, well cork- ed in bottles, and the mucilage will fall to the bottom. LEMON KALI.—Dry the fol- lowing well; finest sugar, b lb.; citric acid, or tartaric acid, 4 ozs.; carbonate of soda, 6 ozs.; essence of lemon, 30 drops. Keep in a dry tightly corked bottle. A des- sert-spoonful in a tumbler of water will make a pleasant beverage.