263 MUT MUT yolk of an egg; then strew it over with, a few bread crumbs, and shred parsley; put it into a Dutch oven to broil; taste it with fresh but- ter ; pour in the dish good caper sauce, and serve. I MUTTON, Breast of.—Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucum- bers ; or to eat cold, covered with chopped parsley. Or half boil and then grill it before the fire; in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper sauce, or if boned, take off a good deal of the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning; then roll and boil; and serve with chopped walnuts, orwith capers and butter. MUTTON, to collar a breast of. —Take out the bones and gristle ; i then take some grated bread, a few i cloves, some mace, pepper, salt, i and a little lemon-peel, chopped fine; lay the meat flat; rub it i over with egg, and spread the i seasoning over it; add two or i three anchovies, washed and boned, then roll the meat as hard as pos- sible; bind it with coarse tape, and boil it in a cloth. Or it may be skewered, and the tape omitted, i and either roasted or baked. MUTTON, to dress a leg of to ' eat like venison.—Take a large fat ' leg of mutton, cut out like a haunch of venison, as soon as it is killed; ij whilst warm, take out the bloody : vein; stick it in several places in the under side with a sharp i pointed knife; pour over it a bot- tle of port wine; turn it in the wine four or five times a day for : five days; dry it well with a clean cloth; hang it up in the air with ! the thick end uppermost for five i days; dry it night and morning 1 to keep it from being damp or mus- ty. When it is to be roasted cover t with paper and paste, as you do venison. Serve with venison sauce. It will take four hours, roasting. MUTTON, to dress a haunch of. —Keep it as long as it can be pre- served sweet; wash it with warm milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary; wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in; set it at a great distance from the fire, and allow proportional time for the paste; don’t take it off till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving, and then baste it continu- ally. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. A gravy must be made of 11 lb. of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt; brown it with a little burnt sugar, and send it up in the dish but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat; for though long at the fire, the dis- tance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant- jelly sauce. MUTTON, Leg of boiled.— Soak well for an hour or two in salt and water; do not use much salt. Wipe well, and boil in a floured cloth. Boil from two hours to two hours and a half. Serve with caper sauce, potatoes, mashed turnips, greens, oyster sauce, &c. To preserve the gravy in the leg, do not put it in the water till it boils; for the sudden con- tact with water causes a slight film over the surface, which pre- vents the escape of the gravy, which is abundant when carved. MUTTON, Leg of, to force.— Raise the skin, and take out the lean part of the mutton; chop it very fine with one anchovy; shred