PIL 309 PIL It is most frequently caused by costiveness, by pregnancy, and a sedentary life, by strong purga- tives, and by dram-drinking. The piles are sometimes tlie effect of relaxation and debility, and not unfrequently result from an in- flammatory action in the rectum, and a diminished secretion of mu- cus from its inner membrane. Treatment. — When piles are caused by constipation, and a de- bilitated state of the bowels, it is needful to open them, and keep them so by gentle aperients. Medi- cines which act moderately upon the bowels, are calculated to remove that morbid state of the liver and stomach which often causes the complaint. The patient may take sulphur, cream of tartar, confection of senna, and the lenitive electuary; but all strong purgatives must be avoided. Mix sulphur, h oz.; confection of senna, 2 ozs. ; saltpetre, 3 drachms; and as much syrup of orange as will give the mixture a proper consistence. About the size of a nutmeg must be taken twice or thrice a day. It is very soothing and healing to steam the parts with a sitz bath made of a strong decoction of bitter herbs; as hops, catnep, tansy, pennyroyal, and camomile flowers. Pom- upon them boiling water and vinegar. Infuse some time; boil again, and let the steam approach the parts. A cold water cloth has been found of great service. Dip a cloth into cold water; let the cloth be four-fold; apply it close, and press it to with a dry cloth : as it warms, re-dip into cold water: do this several times; then convey into the anus some pure tallow or lard, or the File Ointment, descri- bed at the end of this article. A slippery elm poultice, made with milk and water to a proper consis- tence, may also be applied. The slippery elm is both cooling and healing. Ten drops of laudanum may be added to the poultice. When there is great constipa- tion, an emolient injection is indi- cated. Take £ a pint of water, half a dessert-spoonful of salt, and an ounce of castor oil. Retain it as long as possible. The following injection is recommended by Dr. Simmons:—Witch hazel leaves, | oz.; cranesbill, § oz.; meadow fern burrs, 1 oz. ; slippery elm, 2 drachms; mix the powders well to- gether, and pour upon them 11- pint of boiling water. Infuse for 4 hours, and strain it. In the morning use 1- a pint for an injec- tion, and at night not quite so much, and retain it, if possible, all night. Repeat as often as neces- sary. The marshmallow ointment is also very useful.—For blind piles the tincture of lobelia is very good; so also is brandy, a little diluted, applied frequently. It is a good plan to cleanse the anus night and morning with soft soap and water; then using tallow or the pilewort ointment, or any of the ointments for the piles. It is good to wash the anus after every evacuation. Generally speak- ing, the application of cold water is more effectual than warm water for fomenting, &c.; but this must be decided by the patient, as warm water in some states of the piles is very soothing. To effect a cure, the bowels must be kept regularly open; — take Epsom salts, i oz.; infusion of senna, 6 drachms ; tincture of sen- na, 3 drachms ; decoction of bark, 1 oz.; spearmint water, 1 oz.; water, 4 ozs.; best manna, 3 drachms. Mix, and take from three to six table-spoonfuls every morning, or every other day. The diet should be chiefly vegetable till the disease