297 PEA PEA the size of a tea-cup; fill them with the meat; put thin Ms on them; bake very crisp. PATTIES, fried.—Cut b lb. of leg- of veal very small, with six oysters; put the liquor of the oys- ters to the crumb of a penny loaf; mix with a little salt; put into a tossing pan with J lb. of butter; keep stirring for a few minutes over the fire; make a good puff paste, roll it out, and cut it into little bits the size of a crown piece, various shapes; put a little of the meat upon them, and a lid to cover; turn up the edges, to keep in the gravy; fry them in a panful of hog’s lard. PATTIES, like mince pies.— Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. PATTIES, Savoury.-Take lib. of the cold loin of veal, or cold fowl, either boiled or roasted, and £ lb. of beef suet; chop them as small as possible with a little pars- ley; season well with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; put them in a tossing-pan, with half a pint of veal gravy; thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, and two spoonfuls of cream, and shake them over the fire for two minutes; fill your patties. PATTIES, Sweet.'—Take the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, two large apples, and 1 oz. of candied orange ; chop them very small; grate half a nutmeg; mix them with the yolk of an egg, a spoon- ful of French brandy, and J lb. of currants ; make a good puff paste, and roll it in different shapes and fill; they may be baked or fried. PEACH.-l)r. King, of America, says, “ The dried peach, boiled or stewed with sugar, is aperient, and very wholesome for persons con- stipated, especially invalids. The kernels are bitter, but form a most valuable remedy. They are a great tonic for the stomach and bowels, and strengthen the diges- tive organs. Made into a decoc- tion, they give strength to persons recovering from the dysentery. It may be sweetened to render it pal- atable. The leaves and bark are tonic, purgative, and diuretic, and are veiy useful in leucorrhcea, or whites, debility, and irritation of the stomach and lungs.” The flowers and kernels, say 1 oz. each, boiled, and sweetened, is a remedy for children teething, and for worms. PEACH BLOSSOMS, Syrup of.—Infuse peach blossoms in hot water, sufficient to cover them; let them stand in a hot water-bath for 24 hours covered close ; then strain and put in fresh flowers; infuse as before; again strain; and a third time add fresh peach blossoms to the liquor; then to every lb. of the infusion, add 2 lbs. of double refined sugar, and setting it in a hot water-bath, make a syrup. PEACH COLOUR RIBBON, to restore when turning red.—Salt of potash dissolved in water; place the ribbon on a clean table, and apply the mixture with a sponge. PEACH LEATHER. This preparation is much relished by invalids, and is thus made;— Squeeze out the pulp of very ripe peaches, add a little sugar; give one boil, and spread it half an inch thick on a plate, and let it dry till quite dry and tough. Roll it in layers, with clean paper between. PEACH MARMALADE.-The same as Apricot Marmalade. See page 26. PEACH WINE.—Take 9 gal- lons of cold soft water; relined su-