97 CAR CAR perspiration find sleep, removes flatulency, colic, and is an excellent nervine. CARMINATIVE PURGA- TIVE.—Tincture of senna, 1 oz.; powder of aloes, 10 grains ; pep- permint water, 3 ozs. ; syrup of ginger, 1 oz. Two table-spoon- fuls for a dose, repeated in three hours if necessary. CARNATION LIP SALVE. —Olive oil, 1 lb; alkanet root, £ oz. macerate with heat, until the oil is well coloured; then add white wax, 3 ozs.; spermaceti, 3 ozs.; oil of lavender, 15 drops; essence of bergamot, 15 drops. CARP OR TENCH.—Clean and scale; wash and dry them; dredge them well with flour ; fry them in lard, or dripping, until of a light brown; then put them into a saucepan with gravy, port wine, and a little water if requisite; add a table-spoonful of browning, the same of walnut ketchup, and cay- enne pepper to taste. Stick an onion all over with cloves; add it and two bay leaves to the rest of the ingredients. Stew gently over a slow fire until the gravy is re- duced to a sufficient quantity to cover the fish when they are ser- ved ; take the fish out and place carefully upon the dish for table; put the gravy again upon the fire, and thicken it with flour and but- ter ; boil for a few minutes, and strain it over the fish. A sprig of myrtle placed in the mouth of each fish forms a pretty garnish. CARP, to fry.—Split a carp at the back, flatten the back bone, and marinate it about two hours, with a glass of vinegar and water, parsley, shalots, a clove of garlic, two of spices, thyme, whole pep- per, and salt; drain, and flour it. over, fry on a smart fire, and servo with fried parsley. Hu. CARPETS, to clean.—Take up the carpet, and let it be well beaten; then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand brush, turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox gall, and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths; then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. Newly-cut grass is much better than tea-leaves for sweeping car- pets. Hu. CARPETS, Soiled.— Beat all the dust out. Then take 2 gallons of water, £ lb. of soft soap, well dissolved in it, and 4 ozs. of liquid ammonia. Dip in it a flannel, and rub the carpet well with it, and afterwards with a dry cloth. CARRAWAY BRANDY, to make.—Steep an ouuce of carraway seeds, and six ounces of loaf sugar, in a quart of brandy; let it stand nine davs, and then draw it off. Hu. CARRAWAY CAKES.—Sift 2 lbs. of fine sugar, 2 lbs. of flour; mix, and sieve into the bowl; but- ter, 2 lbs.; 18 eggs, leaving out 8 of the whites; add 4 ozs. candied orange, and 2 ozs. carraway seeds; work the butter with rose-water; then put in flour and sugar gradu- ally, and the eggs with a glassful or two of sherry wine; beat con- stantly, till you put into the hoop for the oven. Buttered paper must be placed underneath. You may add allspice, ginger, and nut- meg, as you like. Sift fine sugar upon them. CARRAWAY SEED BIS- CUITS.—Make as other biscuits, adding carraway seeds. CARRIER SAUCE.-Chop fine 6 shalots; boil wilh £ pint of good gravy, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. CARROTS B 01 LED. - S crape, wash, and clean them; if large, cut them into two or four pieces, set them over the fire in boiling water with some salt in it. and G