ITA 211 ii a 9 IRR IRISH STEW.—Cut off tho fat of part of a loin of mutton, and cut it into cliops. Pare, wash, and slice very thin some potatoes, two onions, and two small carrots; sea- son with pepper, and salt. Cover with water in a stew-pan, and stew gently till the meat is tender, and the potatoes are dissolved in the gravy. It may be made of beef- steaks, or mutton and beef mixed. IRON-MOULD, to remove.— Rub the iron-mould part with a little oxalic acid, or salts of lemon, dissolved in warm water. After remaining ten minutes, rinse well in warm and then in cold water. - Or applv a mixture of milk and salt. IRON AND STEEL, to pre- vent from rusting.—Fat oil varnish, one part, and rectified spirits of turpentine, three parts, intimately mixed, and applied with a sponge. Camphor, lard, and black lead, mixed, applied, and after two days wiped off will preserve from rust. Or smear over the iron, or metal, hardware, &c. with melted mutton-suet, and dust with pow- dered unslaked lime. Brown paper is a good preserva- tive from rust. Hence all Shef- field and Birmingham Hardware, Cutlery, &c., are wrapped in Brown Paper. IRRITABLE.—Physically de- notes a habit of body prone to tonic inflammation, but without strength to form it perfectly, or to bear the remedies proper to subdue it.—Ir- ritation signifies an imperfect in- flammation. Many infantile dis- eases partake more of irritation than inflammation. A state of irrita- bility is present in most diseases, and is very trying both to the pa- tients and their attendants, and one for which every allowance and con- sideration ought to be made. IRRITATING LINIMENT. Tincture of Cayenne, \ oz.; spirits of turpentine, 1 oz.; croton oil J oz.; olive oil, 1£ oz. It produces eruptions, and removes the se- verest pains. IRRITATING PLASTER.— Burgundy-pitch and beeswax, | lb. each; thick tar, -1 lb.; Venice tur- pentine, J oz. Melt well and mix on a slow fire. When cold, mix with them powdered blood-root, poke-root, and a little cayenne. Spread on linen or soft leather. This plaster is counter-irritant, causes eruptions, and is a good cu- rative for old sores and ulcers. It is highly recommended. ISINGLASS JELLY.—Boil 1 oz. of isinglass in a quart of water, with £ oz. of Jamaica pepper-corns, or cloves, and a crust of bread, till reduced to a pint. Add sugar. It keeps well, and may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, &c. ISINGLASS PLASTER. — Dissolve isinglass in a little hot water, and brush it over silk or fine linen, to form a glaze upon it. Dry, and when wanted cut strips, and moisten them. 11 is an elegant plaster for abrasions of the skin. ISSUE OINTMENT. — Mix half an ounce of Spanish flies, finely powdered, in six ounces of yellow basilicon ointment. This ointment is chiefly intended for dressing blisters, in order to keep them open during pleasure. ITALIAN PUDDING.—Lay puff paste at the bottom and round the edge of the dish; over which pour a pint of cream, French rolls enough to thicken it, ten eggs beaten fine, a nutmeg grated, 12 pippins sliced, orange peel, sugar, and half a pint of red wine. Half an hour will bake it. ITALIAN SAUCE, Brown.— Chop a few mushrooms and sha- lots; put them into a stewpan, with some stock, and a glass of sherry; boil up ; add clove, nut-