BUR BUG 34 nuisance, much care is necessary to get rid of them. Bedsteads should bo taken to pieces at the beginning of the year, and each part washed with a strong solution of coiTosive sublimate, or the joints and crevices may be filled with soft soap. If the walls are infested, the paper should be re- moved, and the walls washed with the corrosive sublimate. The floor, in inveterate cases, may be painted all round the skirting- board to the extent of four inches. As the corrosive sublimate is a strong poison, the bottle contain- ing it should be marked, and a caution given to those who apply it. Coal oil is said to be a sure destroyer of bed-bugs. Apply plentifully, with a small brush or feather, to the places where they most do congregate. The cure is effectual and permanent. Gilt frames, chandeliers, &c., rubbed slightly over with coal oil, will not be disturbed by flies. BUGS, to destroy.—1. Corrosive sublimate, 1 ounce ; muriatic acid, 2 ounces; water, 4 ounces; dissolve, then add turpentine, 1 pint; de- coction of tobacco 1 pint; mix. For the decoction of tobacco boil two ounces in a pint of water. This mixture must be applied with a paintbrush. This via.sh.ia a deadly poison ! 2. Dissolve camphor in spirits of wine, then add nearly the same quantity of turpentine. Apply it with a brush to the bed, furniture, &c., infested by the vermin. The smell of this is very wholesome, but death to the bugs.— 3. Arsenic, one ounce; soft soap, two ounces ; camphor, nearly half ounce, dissolved as above, made into a paste, and applied. 4. Use a strong solution of alum water.—Or spirits of naptha ap- plied with a brush.—Or apply turpentine and creasote, or oil of tar. BUGLE.—A plant growing in woods, ditches, swamps, copses, &c. (>See Robinson's Herbal.) It is of great use in coughs, and the first stages of consumption, spit- ting of blood, &c. Amongst the doctors of America it is in high repute. Like Digitalis, though not so powerful, it allays irrita- tion, cough, regulates the pulse, and equalizes the circulation. It has been described as “one of the mildest and best narcotics in existence.” Administered by in- fusion, or decoction. BUNIONS. A plaster of Burgundy pitch should be kept over a bunion. Or, a piece of lint or linen rag wetted with a strong solution of Sal-ammoniac, to be kept on constantly wet.— Poultice them with houseleek and ground ivy, dipped in strong vine- gar.—Some recommend the appli- cation of caustic to the part; and also the application of leeches, and the Burgundy Pitch and Soap Plasters, spread upon soft leather. To be free from bunions and corns, especially avoid pressure from tight boots, shoes, and stockings; the last are very injurious, as they com- press the feet by their elasticity. BURDOCK. — See Robinson's Herbal. It has been successfully employed in scurvy, rheumatism, gout, and pulmonary complaints. It is a great diuretic. BURNS AND SCALDS. See Spanish Flies.—If the clothes have caught fire, wrap the person in a shawl, coat, blanket, &c. very tightly, to extinguish the flames; or when these are not at hand, roll the person on the floor. Then gently disengage the clothes from around the burned surface. If any parts of the dress should stick to