448 WOO woo to tun. Let it stand three days, stirring it well every day. Then put it into the cask with a pint of brandy, a pound of sugar candy, and an ounce of isinglass. It may be bottled in eight months. WINE, to make astringent.— Mix a little alum with the wine; or gum kino, catechu, or rhatany. WINE, rich and pleasant.— Take new cider from the press, mix it with as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Siam it well; when cool let it be turned, but don’t quite fill. In the March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six weeks; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. This will serve for any culinary purpose for which sack, or sweet wine is directed. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palatable new crabbed austere cider. WINE BISCUITS.—Take the yolks of 6 eggs, and the whites of 5; beat with orange flower water till they come to a froth; then add sifted sugar, 1 lb.; rice flour, § lb.; the raspings and pulp of a lemon, with a few carraway seeds. Dust with sugar. WINE WIIEY.—Put half a pint of new milk on the fire ; the moment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine as will completely turn it, and it looks clear; let it boil up, then set the sauce-pan aside till the curd sub- sides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey perfectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. WOOD, to bronze.—Cover with a coating of thin glue. When dry, coat it again with white of egg and water; do not put much on. Then apply the bronze with a hare’s foot, or dust from a small fine muslin bag. WOOD, to coat.—The Germans have recently adopted the follow- ing method:—The ingredients are 40 parts of chalk, 40 of rosin, 4 of linseed oil, to be melted together in an iron pot. One part of native oxide of copper, and one of sul- phuric acid are then to be added, when the composition is ready for use. It is applied hot to the wood with a brush in the same way as paint, and the varnish becomes as hard as stone when dry. WOOD, to preserve.—Gas tar, rosin, or pitch, and lime, boiled well together, and applied to wood exposed to the weather, form a good preservative. Apply two or three coats, and on the last dash fine sand to give it the appearance of stone, and to make it durable. Gas tar, turpentine, and a little nitric acid make a good paint for iron. WOOD, to resemble mahogany. —Take two ounces of dragon’s blood, (gum tragacanth) break it into pieces, and dissolve in a quart of spirits of wine, to which add a little soda; let it stand in a warm place and shake it frequently; when dissolved, it is fit for use. Or take four ounces of logwood, and half a pound of madder; boil in a gallon of water, adding a lit- tle pearl-ash, and 1 oz. of walnut peeling. Apply while hot. WOODCOCK, Snipe, $c. Clean well, and stuff with mealy potatoes, well washed, and season- ed with butter, salt, pepper, and a little cream, or new milk ; cut off the pinions at the first joint; fas- ten the legs close to the ribs, turn the head backward, between the