89 CAK OAK fine; put into a stew-pan witli slices of ham, butter and cream; simmer till is quite mashed, Stir- ling often; add gravy, pepper, and salt. The sauce must he thick. Toast bread, and put it into the table-dish, pour the ragout upon it, and garnish with fried or stewed sausages. CABBAGE, RED, to piclcle.— Choose a sound large cabbage; shred it finely, and sprinkle it with salt, and let it stand in a dish for a day and night. Then boil vine- gar (from a pint) with ginger, cloves, and cayenne pepper. Put the cabbage into jars, and pour the liquor upon it when cold. CABBAGE PUDDING. Braize 1 lb. of beef suet, 1 lb. of lean veal, I lb. of nice ham, and a small scalded cabbage. Season with mace, nutmeg, ginger, pep- per, and put in some good goos- berries. Mix all with the yolks of four or five eggs well beaten up. Wrap all up in a green cabbage leaf, tie it in a cloth, and boil it an hour. CAMBRIAN PUDDING. — Grated cocoa-nut, J of a lb.; 4 ozs. of butter; 1 lb. of sugar; half a pint of cream; 9 eggs; a wine- glassful of rose water. Stir the su- gar and butter as for cake; add the eggs well-beaten. Stir in the gra- ted cocoa-nuts with the butter and eggs. Add. the other ingredients, and bake with or without a crust. Bake about 40 minutes. Rusks or sponge cake steeped in wine make a good addition. CAKE, a fine.—Wash 2| lbs. of butter in rose-water, beat the but- ter to a cream ; beat twenty eggs,' yolks and whites separately, half an hour each. Plave ready 2) lbs. of the finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, also, U lb. of sugar pounded and sifted” 1 oz. of spice finely powdered; 3 lbs. of currants clean and dry ; almonds blanched | lb., f lb. of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Keep all near the fire, mix all the dry ingredients; pour the eggs strained to the butter; pour half a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy to the but- ter and eggs, mix well, then gradu- ally put in all the dry things, beat them thoroughly. Then chop very fine | lb. of stoned raisins, and mix them carefully, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful of orange-flower water. Beat well a little longer. Have a hoop well buttered, take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge, if the cake- hatter fill it more than three parts; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. CAKE, an excellent.— Rub 2 lbs. of fine flour, with 1 lb. of butter washed in rose-water, mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast, in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise an hour before the fire; then beat it into 2 lbs. of currants, 1 lb. of sugar, sifted, 4 ozs. of almonds, 6 ozs. of stoned raisins, chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped fine, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lem- on. Beat well, and butter the pan. A quick oven. CAKES, Brevet.—Rub into 1 lb. of dried flour- 4 ozs. of butter, 4 ozs. of white powdered sugar, one .egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When mixed, put cun-ants into one half, and carraways into the rest. Cut them, and bake on tins. CAKE, Bourneville. Work £ lb. of flour with five or six eggs, lemon peel, chopped fine, a little orange-flower water, and plain