HEA 194 HEA Feverfew, and one ounce of Camo- mile Flowers, to two quarts of water; boil to one quart; then add while hot half an ounce of rhubarb, and stir well. Dose—a wineglassful three times a day.— "W ear the hair short, often wash the head in cold water, rub the hair dry, and keep the head un- covered as much as possible. Sometimes head-ache proceeds from a torpid liver; in that case, take extract of colocynth and blue pill, of each \ a drachm, and 4 drops of the oil of cloves. Make into 12 pills. Dose, two to four. Bathing the crown of the head every morning in cold water has been found of singular use. Should the pain be extreme, apply must- ard plasters between the shoulders, and on the soles of the feet. HEADACHE.—Rub the head for a quarter of an hour.—Tried. • Or, be electrified.—Tried. Or, apply to each temple the thin yellow rind of a lemon newly pared off. Or, pour upon the palm of the hand a little brandy and some zest* of lemon, and hold it to the forehead; or a little aether. • Or, snuff up the nose cam- phorated spirits of lavender. Or a little of horse radish. Take of white-wine vinegar and water, each three spoonfuls, with half a spoonful of Hungary water. Apply this twice a-day to the eye- lids and temples.— Wesley. HEADACHE, Chronic. Keep your feet in warm water a quarter of an hour before you go to bed, for two or three weeks.— Tried. Or, wear tender hem- lock leaves under the feet, chang- ing them daily. Or, order a tea-kettle of cold water to be pour- ed on your head every morning, in a slender stream. Or, take a * Zest is the juice of the peel squeezed out. large tea-cupful of carduus tea without sugar, fasting, for six or seven mornings.— Wesley. HEALTH, Preservation of.— Adopt the plan of rising early, and never sit up late at night. Wash the whole body every morning with cold water, by means of a large sponge, and rub it dry with a rough towel, or scrub the whole body for ten or fifteen min- utes with flesh brushes. Those who use cold water regu- larly, either with a sponge or as a bath, are able to bear exposure to the weatb er much better than with- out its aid. Drink water generally, and avoid taking spirits, wines, and all fer- mented liquors. Sleep in a room which has free access to the open air, and is well ventilated. Keep the head cool by washing it with cold water when necessary, and abate feverish and inflamma- tory symptoms when they arise, by preserving stillness. Symptoms of plethora and indi- gestion may be corrected by eating and drinking less per day for a short time. Never eat a hearty supper, espe- cially of animal food. Never in- dulge in luxuries; guard against intemperance; and never sit in a draught, or in wet clothes, nor he in a damp bed. Exercise regularly taken tends to preserve the health. Walk one or two miles a day, regardless of weather, unless very bad indeed. Even a lady with stout walking boots, a large thick cloak, and an umbrella, may defy bad weather. In taking exercise in very severe weather, keep your mouth close and walk rapidly; the air can only