306 PIG PIG well; tie them in cloths separately, and mind the paste does not break; boil them in much water 11- hour. When they are untied, be careful they do not break ; put them into a dish, and pour a little good gravy over them. PIGEONS, in Jelly.—Take some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled; or boil a calf’s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, sweet herbs, pepper, lemon peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season to taste before baking. When doue, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour; clear the jelly by boiling it with the whites of two eggs. Strain through a cloth dipped in boiling water. The fat must be perfectly removed before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. PIGEONS, to jug.—Draw the pigeons; save the livers. Put them in boiling water, and put them on the fire two minutes; take out, mince them small, bruise, and mix with a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon peel, shred very fine, chopped parsley, and yolks of two eggs, hard; bruise them, and put as much suet and bread as liver, pounded fine; work these together with raw eggs, and then roll it in fresh butter. Put a piece into the crops and bellies; sew up the necks and vents; dip the pigeons in water, and season with pepper, and salt, as for a pie; then put them in a jug with a piece of celery : stop them close ; ut the jug into cold water, and oil three hours. Then take out of the jug, and lay them in a dish; take out the celery, and put in a piece of butter rolled in Hour; shake about till thick, and pour on the pigeons. PIGEONS, a la crapandine.— Take three pigeons, truss the legs within, cut the flesh off the breast by sliding in the knife at the side of the leg, and running it up to the joint of the wing; turn the breast over, and flatten the body with the handle of a knife; take a stewpan large enough to contain them in the flattened state ; melt a bit of butter in it; add salt and large pepper; put in the pigeons with their breasts down; turn them, and when three-fourths done, drain them and put them on the grill over a slow fire; give them a fine colour, and serve them under sauce au pauvre homme. PIGEONS, ala daube.—Put a layer of bacon in a saucepan, one of veal, one of coarse beef, and then another of veal, about a pound of beef, and a pound of veal cut very thin; a piece of carrot, a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some pepper, a blade or two of mace, and a few cloves. Cover it close, and brown it over a slow fire. Put in a quart of boiling wa- ter, and when stewed till the gravy is rich, strain, and skim off the fat. Beat a pound of veal, and one of beef suet, in a mortar; an equal quantity of crumbs of bread, pep- per, salt, nutmeg, beaten mace, lemon-peel, parsley cut small, and thyme. Mix them with the yolks of two eggs, fill the pigeons, and flatten the breasts; flour, and fry them in fresh butter, a little brown. Pour off the fat, and put the gravy over the pigeons. Stew them, cover close, till done. Dish them, and pour in the sauce. On each pigeon lay a bay leaf, and on the leaf a slice of bacon. Garnish with notched lemon, and servehot. PIGEONS, to pot.—Let them be quite fresh, clean them care- fully, and season them with salt and pepper: lay them close in u