PAL PAI 287 sponge or flannel. Fullers earth is also a good cleanser. PAINT, to remove from cloth.— Apply spirit of turpentine with a sponge. Grease on cloth may be removed by frequent layers of blotting pa- per placed over the grease spot, and pressing with a flat iron. PAINT, to remove spots of.— Apply spirits of turpentine to the spot, and after a while rub the cloth as if washing, and the paint will crumble off; if not, apply the turpentine again. PAINT, to take away the smell of.—Water neutralizes the smell of paint. Vessels of water placed in a newly painted room, will re- move the smell, especially if im- pregnated with a little sulphuric acid. Or straw and hay well saturated with water. Or chlo- ride of lime and water. PAINT, for Garden Stands.— It may be composed of mineral green, and turpentine varnish, using a larger quantity of the var- nish for the second coat, if needful. The colour may be regulated by the addition of white lead, or Prus- sian blue, ad libitum. PAINTER’S COLIC; seeColic —This is a dangerous disease ; it is attended with severe and violent pain, and paralytic symptoms, and sometimes with nausea, vomiting of acid bile, severe pains,; spas- modic pains about the region of the navel, violently shooting to each i side; it is often attended by vio- lent spasms of the bowels with ob- ! stinate costiveness. If the disease i is not arrested, it may terminate ! in gangrene, paralysis of the limbs, &c. It is caused by the absorp- ; tion of lead into the system chiefly by respiration; hence painters, ■ plumbers, potters, miners, and i white lead workers are most sub- | ject to it. Treatment. — To some extent the system is impregnated with lead; the great object therefore must be to cause nature to expel the same. The nausea and the vomiting must be arrested by the Neutralizing Mixture; give a table-spoonful every half hour, or as often as vomiting takes place; when it ceases, give the Aperient Electuary, or the Aperient Tonic Mixture, page 20, 21, now and then. When the first symptoms appear, give an injection as fol- lows:—Warm water, one pint, two teaspoonfuls of salt; antispasmo- dic tincture, two table-spoonfuls, and a table-spoonful of slippery elm. Apply to the stomach and region of the navel hot fomentations of a strong decoction of hops and pop- py heads, a little antispasmodia tincture, and 20 or 30 drops of laudanum to a pint, Give the va- pour bath daily; and afterwards apply friction, and rub the body all over with the Stimulating Lini- ment. An emetic now and then will be of great use. The injec- tions must be repeated until evac- uations are obtained. Drink at the same time a decoction of the sudorific herbs, as balm, catnep, yarrow, peppermint, camomile, &c. If the disease abates, discon- tinue gradually the use of the above remedies; do not cease all at once, for the disease is a very insidious one, and may return. The appli- cation of dry hot salt, folded up in a bag, is a most valuable remedy. Keep it heating in the oven, and have two bags; change as the one cools.—To remove paralysis in any part, apply frequently the Stimu- lating Liniment. The diet must be low and' sparing. PALERMO WINE.—Take to every quart of water 1 lb. of Mal- aga raisins ; rub, and cut the rai-