ORA ORA 279 out upon glasses; cut into shapes. ORANGE CHEESECAKES. —Seepage 104. ORANGE CHEESECAKES, Crust for.—Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar; then work half a pound of butter with your hand till it comes to froth; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If it is too soft, put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty-pans, and fill. A little above 15 minutes will bake them. Against they come out have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. "Use fresh butter. ORANGE CHIPS.—Cut or- anges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve; soak the peel in water; next day boil in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into a broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the chips candy; then set them in a cool room to dry. They will not be so under three weeks. ORANGE COLOUR, in silk, cotton, §c., to clean.—If silk, clean the garment with a solution of soap ; in the second liquor pearl- ash must be used to stay the colour. For silks the water must be hand- heat. If required to be more scar- let or red, the pearlash must be omitted, and a little used in the rinsing water. Remember that acids heighten the red colour, and alkalies sadden, or make it more buff. ORANGE CREAM.-Take the juice of 4 Seville oranges, and the rind of one pared fine; put them into a tossingpan with a pint of water and 8 ozs. of sugar; beat the whites of 5 eggs; set it over the fire; stir it one way till it is thick and white; strain through a sieve; stir it till it is cold, then beat well the yolks of 5 eggs, put it in the tossingpan with cream; stir over a slow fire till it is ready to boil; put it into a basin to cool, and stir it till it is cold, then put it into jelly glasses: serve with whips and jellies. , Raf. ORANGE CRUMPETS. Cream, one pint; new milk, one pint; warm it, and put in it a lit- tle rennet or citric acid; when broken, stir it gently; lay it on a cloth to drain all night, and then take the rinds of 3 oranges, boiled, as for preserving, in three differ- ent waters; pound them very fine, and mix them with the curd, and eight eggs in a mortar, a little nutmeg, the juice of a lemon or orange, and sugar to your taste; bake them in buttered tin pans. When baked, put a little wine and sugar over them. ORANGE CUSTARDS.—Boil the rind of half a Seville orange very tender; beat it very fine in a mortar; add a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, 4 ozs. of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat all together ten minutes; then pour in gradually a pint cf boiling cream; keep beating them till they are cold; put them into cus- tard cups, and set them in an earth- en dish of hot water; let them stand till they are set; take out, and stick preserved oranges on the top, and serve them hot or cold. ORANGE FLOUR PASTE, for the hands.—Blanch 5 or 6 lbs. of bitter almonds by boiling in wa- ter; and then pound them very fine with 2 lbs. of orange flour. If