426 TYP ULC moted, as debility may follow. A mere moisture of the skin through the disease, must bo maintained. In thirst give a teaspoonful of spirits of nitre in a weak decoction of Peruvian bark. The juice of houseleek and sugar is an excel- lent febrifuge. See Houseleek. Frequently wash the body with cold or tepid, or warm water and vinegar. The salutary effects are often soon visible. Rub the body well with the flannel and liquid. Great attention must be paid to cleanliness. The patient’s face, breast, neck, &c., must be often washed, his linen often changed; there must be good ventilation, and plentiful fumigation. Sprinkle the room with vinegar, camphor- ated spirits, or chloride of lime. Acidulous fruits should be given, as grapes, oranges, lemons, &c. If the throat is sore, give the ap- propriate gargles. Should the patientsink in the advanced stages, give port wine diluted with the same quantity of water. Give a wine-glassful several times a day. • Or a little weak brandy, am- monia, and water, mixed warm. If the feet are cold, put to them a bottle of hot water, wrapped in a vinegar and water cloth, and rub the surface of the body with the Stimulating Liniment. If signs of putrescency appear, give yeast in a little wine, adding two tea- spoonfuls of fresh powdered char- coal, and a little solution of quinine. Bottled porter may also be given. Let the patient be supported by beef-tea, gruel, &c. Should one part of the body be heated more than another, apply to the heated part a poultice of hops and vine- gar, with a little tincture of cay- enne. In diarrhoea, lime water is a suit- able remedy ; when more severe, chalk mixture with a little lauda- num may be substituted; when blood appears, more decided as- tringent remedies are needed, as gallic acid, or acetate of lead. In typhus fever, bed sores, by long lying, are formed. Wash the skin with rum or other spirit to prevent this. If broken, apply a healing plaster, or a poultice made of slip- pery elm and butter. ULCER.—An ulcer is an injury done to the flesh from which issues matter, or some kind of discharge, with more or less pain and inflam- mation. The common ulcer should be kept clean and cool, and protected from the atmosphere, especially in frosty or cold weather. It should be washed now and then with warm soap-water. Put upon it a little lint, wet occasionally with salt and water, and put over it the Black Salve. Perhaps the best dressings are the saturnine cerate, described hereafter. Poultices made of the oak bark, sumach bark, may be used alternately. Sometimes ulcers are very irri- table, tender, and painful. They discharge a thin acrid fluid. They should be steamed every night with a bitter decoction, and occa- sionally washed with an infusion of camomile flowers, or a strong decoction of wild cherry baric, with a little spirit. Poultice with slip- pery elm, mixed with a strong de- coction of poplar bark, and a trifle of salt. Repeat, as required.. If the ulcer or ulcers aro indo- lent, steam as before, and apply the Cancer Plaster, with only a trifle of the white vitriol mixed j with it; or, sprinkle the ulcer with powdered blood-root. Sometimes ulcers become very much inflamed, and assume a livid colour; they are covered with small vesicles or blisters, as in