PAR PAS 294 artichoke buttons, boiled, and cut in quarters, and the yolks of four bard eggs, if agreeable. PARTRIDGE PIE.-Pickand singe four partridges; cut off the legs at the knee; season with pep- per, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal steak and a slice of ham, at the bottom of the dish: put the partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. Put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. PARTRIDGE SOUP.—Take two partridges ; skin them; and cut them into pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in but- ter till brown, but take care not to bum them. Then put them into a stew-pan, with five pints of boil- ing water, a few pepper-corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a lit- tle salt. Stew it gently two hours; then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan, with some stewed celery and fried bread; when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen, and serve it up hot. PARSLEY, to crisp.—Wash it; put it into a Dutch oven, at a mo- derate distance from the fire, and keep turning it till crisp; lay small pieces of butter upon it, but not to make it greasy. PARSLEY, and other herbs to dip.—Pick them clean from all decayed leaves. Put in a sieve; cover with blotting paper, and ex- pose to the sun ; or in a very slow oven, and turn them often; the quicker they are dried the better. Aromatic herbs, if not dried quick- ly, will lose much of their flavour. They may be dried also in a Dutch oven. Rub them, and pass through a sieve. Parsley thus prepared is very pleasant and useful; it breaks into parts as small as are obtained by chopping. When parsley and butter are wanted,it is only required to put a small quantity into the saucepan with the butter. All dried herbs should be kept from the air in paper bags. PARSLEY, to pichle.—Take a good quantity of curled parsley; put it into very strong salt and water; let it stand a week; put it into another strong salt and wa- ter, and let it stand another week; drain well; put it in spring water, and change it every day for three days ; and scald it in hard water till it becomes green; take out, and drain dry; boil a quart of distilled vinegar a few minutes, with mace, sliced nutmeg, and two or three shalots. When it is cold, pour it on the parsley, with three slices of horse radish. Keep for use. PARSLEY PIE.—Lay a fowl * or a few bones of the scrag of veal, seasoned, into a dish; scald a col- ander-full of picked parsley in milk; season ; and add to if the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak | gravy. When it is baked, pour in- to it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with f he size of a walnut of butter, and a little flour. Shake ; it round to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parslev, and scalded before put in. PARSLEY SAUCE.—Pound a handful of parsley, and put it in- to a stewpan in good cullis, suffi- cient for the quantity of sauce wanted ; simmer it fifteen minutes, and sift it in a sieve; add some butter rolled in flour; make a liaison; and, lastly, add a lemon squeeze. PASTE.—It is made by beat-