GOO 181 GOO GLUE, liquid.—Glue, water, vinegar, each 2 parts. Dissolve in a water bath; then add alcohol, 1 part. An excellent cement. GLUE, Liquid. — Shellac, 2 parts; borax, 1 part. Boil till the shellac is dissolved. Shellac dissolved in naptha will unite glass, china, wood, iron, &c. GLUE, MOUTH.—Dissolve 4 ounces of fine Russian glue, or gelatine, in water, adding two ounces of sugar. Boil till it is of a consistence to become solid when cool. Then mould it to any size you like. It may be wet with the tongue, and applied to paper, silk, &c. GLUE, Portable for Draughts- men, &c.—Glue, 5 parts; sugar, 2 parts ; water, 8 parts. Melt in a water-bath and cast it in moulds. For use, dissolve in warm water. GLUE, to resist water.—Boil 1 lb. of glue in two quarts of skim- med milk. GLUE, Waterproof.—1. Glue, 2 parts; skimmed milk, 8 parts. Melt, and evaporate in a water bath to the consistence of strong glue. 2. Glue, 12 parts; water suffi- cient to dissolve it. Then add yellow resin, 3 parts, and when melted, add turpentine, 4 parts. Mix thoroughly together. This should be done in a water-bath. GOLD LIQUID.—Honey and gold leaf in equal parts. Grind intimately together upon a slab; agitate with thirty times its weight I of hot water; settle, and pour off; repeat the agitation. Dry the gold. Mix up with gum water for 1 use. GOOSE, (a la mode).—Skin and bone the goose; boil and peel a dried tongue, also a fowl; season with pepper, salt, and mace, and then roll it round the tongue ; sea- son the goose in the Bame way, and lay the fowl and tongue on the goose, with slices of ham be- tween them. Beef marrow rolled between the fowl and the goose, will greatly enrich it. Put it all together in a pan, with two quarts of beef gravy, the bones of the goose and fowl, sweet herbs, and onion; cover close, and stew an hour slowly; take up the goose; skim off the fat, strain, and put in a glassful of good port wine, two table-spoonfuls of ketchup, a veal sweet bread cut small, some mush- rooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, pepper, and salt; stew the goose half an hour longer; take up and pour the ragout over it. Garnish with lemon. GOOSE PIE.-Bone two young green geese, of a good size, but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean; and season them high w itli salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust: if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. GOOSE, to roast.—After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, and then roast. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast-bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming flatted to table. Let a good gravy be sent in the dish.—3ravy and apple