DAM CUT 139 add the yolks of six eggs well bea- ten, and mix; set over a slow fire, and stir one way, till it is thick ; but do not let it boil; let it cool; butter a cloth; dredge it with flour, tie up the custard; boil three quarters of an hour. When out, turn it upside down on the dish ; take the cloth off carefully. CUSTARDS, fh'ce.-Put a blade of mace and quarter of nut meg in- to a quart of cream ; boil, strain, and add to it some whole rice boil- ed, and a little brandy. Sweeten to your palate, stir it over the fire till it thickens, and serve it up in cups, or a dish. It may be used either hot or cold. CUSTARD, RICH. — Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinnamon; mix a pint of cream and the yolks of five eggs well beaten. When the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a pro- per thickness. Don’t let it boil; stir the whole time one way; season as above. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. CUTS.—All that is required in cases of incised wounds or cuts, is to clear away the surrounding blood, &c., and bring the lips of the wound closely together, retain- ing them in that position by slips of adhesive plaster, and if the cut he deep and extensive, supporting it and the surrounding parts by proper bandages. In all large wounds, interstices should be left between each slip of plaster, to facilitate the escape of secreted matter, or effused blood. The first dressing should remain for three or four days, and if much pain or inflammation follows the accident, gentle purgatives should be taken. The bleeding consequent upon wounds may be stopped by pressure and rest. The application of cob- web will arrest the flow of blood. For light cuts with a knife, or any sharp instrument, the Riga balsam usually stops the bleeding immediately. CUTS. — After closing the wound, bind on toasted cheese.— Or pounded grass; shake it off after twelve hour s.— Wesley. DAFFY’S ELIXIR.—Take of the best senna, guiacum, liquorice sliced small, aniseeds, coriander seeds, and elecampane root, of each half an ounce; raisins of the sun, stoned, a quarter of a pound: let them all be bruised and put into a quart of brandy. Let it stand by the fire for a few days, and then strain it. Good for flatulence. DAINTY BISCUITS. — A cupful of flour, the whites of four eggs, well beaten, 3 or 4 ozs. of beef suet, chopped fine; bitter al- monds, blanched, and chopped, \ oz.; mix the yolks with six ounces of fine sugar; mix all with lemon to flavour. Bake in small tins quickly. DAINTY BREAD. — Flour, 6 lbs.; butter, 6 ozs.; 5 or 6 eggs well beaten; 1| pint of milk, and sufficient yeast. Mix into a paste, and form into rolls or cakes. When risen, bake. When cool, dip in milk, and dry in a Dutch oven be- fore the fire. DAMP WALLS.—Cover with this mixture:—Boil 1 quart of linseed oil, 3 ozs. of litharge, and 4 ozs. of resin, and put on four or five coats. Or, line the wall with sheet lead, the thickness of tea lead, and fasten with copper nails. DAMP WALLS. — Boil two quarts of tar, with two ounces of kitchen grease, for a quarter of an hour, in an non pot. Add some