PRI 332 PUD butter.—Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets: or with a cream sauce. PRAWNS, Curry of.-!Take them from the shells, ana lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four of cream; rub smooth one or two tea-spoonfuls of curry-powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter; simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. PREGNANCY, a good medicine for.—Cinnamon water, 1 oz.; tinc- ture of rhubarb, 2 drachms ; com- ound spirits of lavender, k a rachm; syrup of saffron, 1 drachm. To be taken occasionally in the middle of the day. PRESERVES, to keep.—Apply the white of an egg, with a brush, to a single thickness of white tissue paper, with which cover the jars, lapping over an inch or two. It will require no tying, as it will become, when dry, inconceivably tight and strong, and impervious to the air. PRIMROSE VINEGAR.-To 15 quarts of water put 6 lbs. of brown sugar; boil ten minutes ; take off the scum; pour on it half a peck of primroses; when nearly cold, add a little fresh yeast, and let it work in a warm place all night; put it in a barrel, and when done working, close the barrel, and keep it in a warm place. PRINTING INK, to print linen with types.—Dissolve one drachm of asphaltum in four drachms of oil of turpentine, then add lamp black or black lead, in flne powder, in sufficient quantity to render the ink of a proper con- sistence for printing with types. PRUNES.—They abate heat, and gently relax the bowels, by lubricating the passages and soft- ening the excrements. Hence their great use in constipation, at- tended with heat and irritation, which other aperients might ag- gravate. If not sufficiently active, they may be joined with senna, rhubarb, &c., using a little ginger as anti-flatulent. They should be stewed. The French prunes are the best. PRUNE PUDDING. — Beat up 6 yolks of eggs and 3 whites. Take 4 spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and some powdered ginger, in half a cupful of milk, and mix well together; add gradually near- ly a quart of milk, and I lb. of scalded prunes. Tie it up in a cloth; boil it an hour, and pom- over it melted butter. PRUNE TART.—Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them; put the kernels, prunes, and sugar into a little cranberry juice; simmer, and when cold make a tart of the sweetmeat. PUDDING, BAKED.—Three table-spoonfuls of Oswego Prepa- red Corn to one quart of milk. Prepare, and cook the same as Blanc Mange. After it is cool, stir up with it thoroughly two or three eggs well beaten, and bake half an hour. It is very good. PUDDING, BOILED.—Three table-spoonfuls of Oswego Prepa- red Corn to one quart of milk. Dissolve the corn in some of the milk, and mix with it two or three eggs, well beaten, and a little salt. Heat the remainder of the milk to near boiling, add the above prepa- ration, and boil four minutes, stir- ring it briskly. To be eaten warm with a sauce. It is delicious. PUDDINGS, in haste.—Shred suet, and put with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four