PRA 331 POW The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one. POUND CAKE,plain.—Work one pound of butter with cream and one pound of sifted sugar, till it becomes quite smooth ; heat up nine eggs and put them by degrees to the butter and beat altogether for twenty minutes. Then mix in lightly one pound of flour; put the whole into a hoop cased with paper, on a baking plate, and bake it for about one hour in a moder- ate oven. One ounce of carraway seeds added to the foregoing wiil make what is termed a rich seed calce. POWDER, Aperient.—Take of the best Turkey rhubarb, cinna- mon, and fine sugar, of each 2 drachms. Let the ingredients be pounded, and afterwards mixed well together. When flatulence is accompanied with costiveness, a tea-spoonful of this powder may be taken once or twice a day, according to circum- stances. POWDER, Carminative. — Take of coriander seeds § an oz.; ginger, 1 drachm; nutmegs, § a drachm; fine sugar, If drachm; reduce them into powder for twelve doses. This powder is employed for ex- pelling flatulency, arising from in- digestion. It may be given in small quantities to children in their food, when troubled with gripes. POWDER, Saline Laxative.— Take of soluble tartar, and cream of tartar, of each 1 drachm; puri- fied nitre, h a drachm. Make them into a powder. In fevers and other inflammatory disorders, where it is necessary to keep the body gently open, one of these cooling laxative powders may be taken in a little gruel, and re- peated occasionally. POWDER, Steel.—Take filings of steel, and loaf sugar, of each 2 ozs.; ginger, 2 drachms. Pound them together. In obstructions of the menses, and other cases where steel is pro- per, a tea-spoonful of this powder may be taken twice a day, and washed down with wane or water. POWDER, Sudorific. — Take purified nitre and vitriolated tartar, of each f an oz.; opium and ipeca- cuanha, of each 1 drachm. Mix the ingredients, and reduce them to a tine powder. This is known by the name of Dover’s powder. It is a powerful sudorific. In obstinate rheumatism and other cases where it is neces- sary to excite a copious sweat, this powder may be administered in the dose of a scruple, or half a drachm, accompanied with copious draughts of warm diluting liquor. POWDER, Worm.—Take of tin, reduced into a fine powder, 1 oz.; Ethiop’s mineral, 2 drachms. Mix well together, and divide into six doses. One of these powders may be taken in a little syrup, honey, or treacle, twice a day. Then the following anthelmintic purge will he proper:— Powdered rhubarb, a scruple; scammony and calomel, of each 5 grains. Rub them in a mortar for one dose. For children, the above doses must be lessened according to their age. If the powder of tin be given alone, its dose may be considerably increased. PRAWNS and SHRIMPS— When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. PRAWNS and SHRIMPS, to