STY 409 STY jection of slippery elm bark and castor oil; retain it as long as pos- sible. Let the diet be mild, cooling, and easy of digestion ; and, if you value ease and comfort, avoid the use of all intoxicating drinks—the great creators of piles, strictures, and diseases of the liver and heart. STURGEON, to boil.—Water, 2 quarts; vinegar, 1 pint; a stick of horseradish; a little lemon peel, salt, pepper, a bay leaf. In this boil the fish; when the flesh is ready to leave the bones, take it up; melt j lb. of butter; add an ancho- vy, some mace, a few shrimps, good mushroom ketchup, and lemon juice; when it boils, put in the dish ; serve with the sauce; gar- nish -with fried oysters, horseradish, and lemon. Hu. STURGEON, to broil.—Cut slices, rub beaten eggs over them, and sprinkle them with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, and salt; wrap them in white paper, and broil gently. Use for sauce, but- ter, anchovy, and soy. STURGEON, to dress fresh.— Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt; fold them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce; butter, anchovy, and soy. STURGEON, to roast.—Put a I piece of butter, rolled in flour, in- to a stew-pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar, i Set it over the fire till hot; then let it become lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. But- ter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and anchovy sauce. ST. VITUS’S DANCE.—This is a convulsive disease, principally attacking children from 10 to 16 years of age. It is indicated by a twitching and convulsive action of the muscles of the body, and by lameness or unsteadiness of one of the legs, which the patient, draws after him like an idiot. Then it affects the hand on the same side ; so that if a glass of liquor be put into his hand to drink, before he can get it to his mouth, he uses a great number of odd gestures, on account of the hand being drawn different ways by the convulsive action of the muscles, so that he cannot carry it in a straight line. The will of the patient seems often to yield to these convulsive mo- tions as to a propensity. After continuing some weeks, the intel- lectual operations of the brain are weakened. Females are most sub- ject to this disease. This disease arises from an in- creased irritability of the nervous system, which is often produced by some derangement of the stomach, bowels, and nerves ; sometimes by worms, violent passions, fright, or violent mental emotions, &c.. In females, it probably arises from the same causes which produce hys- terics. Treatment— The irritation of the cerebral system (brain and nerves) being generally symptomatic of a disordered state of the digestive organs, or kept up by irritation in the stomach or bowels, the cure must be commenced by a purgative. Do not allow the bowels to be constipated. If the stomach is de- ranged, give an emetic. (See Emetic.) This will evacuate and cleanse the stomach, give it tone, and benefit the nervous system. Repeat, if necessary. The diet must be very plain. The vapour bath of bitter decoction is of im- mense service. Rub the body fre- quently with the Stimulating Liniment. When symptoms of