BRE BRE 77 rants; beat up three eggs in half a pint of new milk, and quarter of a pint of cream, and four ounces of sugar. Put in the dish a layer of currants; then a layer of bread and butter, and so on till the dish is full; pour the milk and eggs over the whole, and add nutmeg; bake forty minutes. BREAD, Rice and Wheat.— Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till soft; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it well with four pounds of flour, and yeast, and salt as for other bread; of yeast about four large spoon- fuls ; knead it well; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. BREAD CUP PUDDINGS.— Steep bread crumbs in a pint of warm milk; beat it with 6 eggs, 2 ozs. of butter; sugar, brandy, nutmeg, and a cupful of cream. Beat well; bake in tea-cups. Rtt. BREAD, SAGO.—Boil two lbs. of sago in three pints of water until reduced to a quart, then mix with it half a pint of yeast, and pour the mixture into fourteen lbs. of flour. Make into bread in the usual way. BREAD SAUCE.—Grate some old bread into a basin; pour boil- ing new milk upon it; add an onion with five cloves stuck in it, with pepper and salt to taste. Cover it, and simmer in a slow oven. When enough, take out the onion and cloves; beat it well, and add a little melted butter. The ad- dition of cream very much improves this sauce. A. N. BREAD, TJnfermented.—Take fine flour, five pounds; bicarbo- nate of soda, one ounce; pure muriatic acid,, one ounce; water, one quart; salt, half an ounce; mix the bicarbonate of soda and the salt with the flour, and put the muriatic acid into the water, and then blend the whole in the usual way of making dough; bake it either in tins or not. Bread thus made has an agreeable natural taste; keeps much longer than fermented bread, and is more di- gestible, and less liable to ton sour or mouldy. The chemical action of the acid on the soda dis- engages gas, which, though it makes the bread “light,” disap- pears in the oven; the result of this action is to produce nothing but common table-salt, which' can be proved by mixing a similar pro- portion of the acid and soda in an appropriate vessel, when the taste of salt will be recognised. BREAD AND FLOUR. lbs. oz. dr. A peck loaf weighs .. 17 6 1 A half peck .. 8 11 A quartern .. .. 4 5 8| A peck (or st.) of flour 14 7 0 A bushel of flour .. 57 12 0 A barrel of American flour 196 0 0 A sack, or 5 bushels of flour, .. .. 288 12 0 BREAKFAST RELISH. Roast fowl, cold, the same quan- tity of tongue, half the quantity of nice ham, and boiled egg, salt, cayenne pepper, and a small por- tion of powdered mace and nut- meg, all chopped fine, and then beat in a mortar. Pot, and pour lard over the same; but in potting leave out the egg, and use butter instead. BREAST, Inflammation of.— The breasts of females are some- times inflamed, swelled, and sub- ject to abscess. In mothers these affections are painful, and prevent the flow of milk. A swelling in the breaBt may be reduced by ap-