428 URI URI or with the antispasmodic tincture, page 20. Give also an injection of antispasmodic tincture, 1 table- spoonful; warm water, £ pint; slippery elm, 2 teaspoonfuls. This course of treatment is applicable when the disease arises from ner- vous debility. Dr. Beach recom- mends the use of the tincture of cantharides in doses from 10 to 20 drops three times a day in half a cupful of linseed tea. Linseed tea is an appropriate drink; add some- times 5 or 6 drops of laudanum. If it proceeds from obstructed perspiration, the secretion should be restored; use the Sudorific Pow- der, or the vapour bath. Inconti- nence of urine may be benefited by bathing the body every morning with salt and water; and after- wards rubbing with the Stimula- ting Liniment. URINE, Hot and Scalding.— It may arise from various causes, from inflammation of the kidneys, uterus, alcoholic drinks, luxurious diet, excessive venery, &c. Take the juice of ground-ivy in linseed tea, with a little sweet spirits of nitre. Drink cooling and mucilaginous drinks. Let the diet be light and spare. Butter- milk is very appropriate. See Diuretic Drops ; for this complaint they are effectual. URINE, Bloody.—“Take twice a day copious draughts of infusion of yarrow.”— Wesley. It generally indicates some other disease. Give small doses of a solution of gum kino, and gum arabic, and alum, to which add from 8 to 16 drops of laudanum. The Diuretic Drops may be given half a teaspoonful at a time two or three times a day. When blood is discharged with the urine in a plethoric habit, the use of an aperient medicine is ne- cessary (See Castor Oil.) The saline purgatives are in this case inadmissible, on account of their rendering the urine more irritating. The diet should be low, unless the patient be much reduced, or the discharge of blood be the conse- quence of ulceration of the kidneys or bladder. In all cases, stimu- lants, as pepper, salt, &c. should be avoided. When it is occasioned by the mechanical action of a stone in the bladder, or gravel in the kidneys or ureters, it will require the treat- ment recommended for those com- plaints. When ulceration is the cause (which is known from its being attended with a discharge of matter), the essential oil of turpen- tine, in the dose of twelve drops, in marsh-mallow root tea, has generally a very happy effect. The buchu leaves with gum-arabic, in these affections, have also proved particularly serviceable, as the fol- lowing: Take of infusion of the buchu leaves, eight ounces; Tinc- ture of ditto, six drachms ; mucil- age of gum arabic, 3 ounces. Three table-spoonfuls of this mixture may be taken three times a day. URINE, Suppression of.—It may proceed from gravel. See Grand. “Drink largely of warm lemonade.—Or, take a scruple of nitre every two hours.—Or, a spoonful of lemon-juice sweetened with syrups of violets.”— Wesley. Immerse the feet in warm water and soap, and drink parsley root tea. Take half pint of spearmint tea, to which add 3 teaspoonfuls of sweet spirits of nitre, and a wine- glassful of Hollands gin. Sweeten it with sugar or honey. Repeat, if necessary. If the disease is obstinate, steam with the vapour bath, or put the patient into a warm bath. Apply the tincture of cay- enne over the bladder; and then a poultice of hops, if there is much