183 GRO GUM given for candying fruit; some may bo done each way. GREEN GAGE JAM.— Peel and take out the stones. To 1 lb. of pulp put f lb. of loaf sugar; boil halfanhour; add lemon juice. A.N~. GREEN GAGE TART.—Se- lect fruit not quite ripe, but sound; fill a pie-dish; beat up £ lb. of powdered sugar, in as much water as will dissolve it; pour over the fruit, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of egg with a brush over the crust; put the tart back in the oven for a few minutes; sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving. GREEN GOOSEBERRY JELLY.—Place the berries in hot water on a slow fire till they rise to the surface; take off; cool with a little water, add also a lit- tle vinegar and salt to green them. In two hours drain, and put them into cold water a minute ; drain, and mix with an equal weight of sugar ; boil slowly 20 minutes ; sieve, and put into glasses. GREEN OINTMENT.—Ono ounce each chickweed, tansy, wormwood, horeliound, hops, and a pinch of salt, finely powdered. Bruise, put into a kettle, cover over with lard and some spirits of wine. Infuse a week or two, and then simmer a little over the fire. Add from 8 to 12 ozs. of Venice turpen- tine.—This salve is very healing, applied to wounds, sores, and ul- cers. It is useful in contusions, sprains, swellings, &c. GRETNA BUNS.—Flour, 1 lb.; yeast, 1 gill; butter, J lb.; which rub into the (lour; add the yeast, and flour sufficient to form the dough; rise, and make into calces; bake them on greased tins in a quick oven. GROUND IYY. See Robin- son's Herbal.—It is a purifier of the blood, beneficial to the lungs and kidneys. It is stimulant and tonic. Taken in decoction and in- fusion. Made into an ointment, it cures inflammation of the eyes. GROUND RICE MILK. Boil a spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with better than a pint of milk, a bit of cinna- mon, lemon peel, and nutmeg. S wrpp.tftn GROUND RICE PUDDING. —Boil rather more than a table- spoonful of ground rice in a pint of new milk with lemon-peel and cin- namon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. Some incorporate currants or raisins. GROUNDSEL.—United with chickweed, and slippery elm, it makes an excellent poultice for in- flammations and all painful swell- ings. GROUSE PIE.—May be made as most fowl pies, seasoning with cayenne, salt, cloves, stock, brown gravy, and a glass of port wine. GROUSE, to roast.—Roast; them like fowls; twist the head under the wing. Roast carefully half an hour. Serve with a rich gravy with bread sauce, or on but- tered toast, the underside saturated with gravy. GRUEL.—Mix intimately a table-spoonful of oatmeal or patent groats in three or four of cold wa- ter ; add a pint of boiling water, J and boil 8 or 10 minutes. GUM ARABIC STARCH.- Mako a solution of the finest Ginn Arabic with hot water. Strain.' Put a little into the ordinary starch; mix well. It will give to muslin, lawn, &c., a much improved ap- pearance. GUMS, Tincture for the.—In- fuse 1 oz. of Peruvian bark, gross- ly powdered, in a pint of brandy '