I cou drachm; syrup of white poppies, two drachms; laudanum, forty drops ; water, four ounces. Shake the powder in the water till it is dissolved, then add the others. Dose:—A teaspoonful three times a day. 5. Asthmatic Cough. Take two good handfuls of Coltsfoot leaves, one ounce of Garlic, and two quarts of water. Boil down to three pints. Strain, and to the liquor add eight ounces of sugar, boil gently for ten minutes. Take half a cupful occasionally. 6. Consumptive Cough. — The following is a most valuable recipe: —Of Sanctuary, Horehound, Bay- berry Bark, two pennyworth of each; and of Agrimony, Rasp- berry Leaves, Clevers, and Ground Ivy, one pennyworth ; Extract of Liquorice, 4 ozs.; and half a tea- spoonful of Cayenne pepper. Gently simmer in two gallons of water for an hour. 7. The following has cured most obstinate coughs:—Take a pint of milk, warm it, and when it comes to the boiling point, add as much made mustard as will turn it to a posset. Take away the curd, and into half a pint of the posset put one ounce of brown sugar candy, to dissolve. Take the posset as hot as you can at night, when in bed, and renew it for three or four times. This has given relief in [ asthma. 8. A dry cough.—Disolve \ oz. of gum arabic, £ oz. of Spanish juice, and two table-spoonfuls of treacle, in a little warm water; add 3 drachms of the syrups of i squills, and 2 drachms of syrup of poppies. Cork and shake well. Take a teaspoonful when the cough ( is annoying; drink linseed tea, i sweetened with sugar-candy. Gu. 9. Chew a little Peruvian Bark i constantly BWallowing- tho spittle. COU 127 It seldom fails to cure a dry cough. — Wesley. 10. Two or three table-spoonfuls of Linseed, a small bunch of hore- hound; boil to a jelly, and strain. Add 2 lb. of Sugar Candy, £ lb. of Honey, J lb. of loaf Sugar. First boil the horehound in a quart of water; then add the strained Lin- seed and the other articles. Sim- mer for two hours. When cold, add of Chlorodyne to the value of Is. Bottle it and cork tight. A small quantity of spirits of wine or Brandy to keep it. When the cough is troublesome, take a table- spoonful. This Recipe is invaluable. 11. Balsam of Tolu, § ounce; gum storax, J drachm; opium, 8 grains; best honey, 2 ounces; spirits of wine, half a pint. Di- gest for 6 days, and strain. If the cough is fast, add J ounce of Ipecacuanha in powder. 12. An old remedy is to dissolve two ounces of mutton suet in a quart of milk, and drink it warm. This relieves a violent cough. 13. Beat well the yolk of an egg, put it in a mortar, and add half a drachm of powdered sper- maceti, a little fine sugar, and a table-spoonful of paregoric elixir. Take a table-spoonful when the cough is troublesome. 14. Dr. James recommends a mixture of vinegar and treacle in equal quantities; a teaspoonful to be taken when required—Or take half a pint of vinegar, J oz. Span- ish juice, 1 oz. each, sugar candy, and spirits of wine. A table- spoonful at a time. Gu. 15. Take honey and treacle, of each 4 ozs.; best vinegar, 5 ozs. Mix, and slowly simmer them in a common pipkin for fifteen minutes. When the mixture is cold, add a dessert-spoonful of paregoric elixir. Dose—a table-spoonful three or four times a day.