ADU JEOL 11 slow fire for half an hour, till half candied; then add lemon juice, or citric acid, or tartaric acid, accord- ing to taste. A little dissolved gum Arabic added will make them harder and more wholesome. Gu. ACIDITY, and FLATULEN- CY, in Children.—It often arises from a mother’s impure milk; when it is so she must take the Neutralizing Mixture ; and if not effectual, administer it to the in- fant. Also foment the belly with warm brandy and water, to which add a little salt. Give also the Carminative Drops, which see. ACIDITY of the STOMACH. The Neutralizing Mixture, (which see) is very effectual in curing this disorder.-——Or, 10 grains of Calumba, powdered, and 10 grains of magnesia, well mixed. Magnesia and a little finely pow- dered chalk will be of great ser- vice.—See Absorbents. Gu. ADHESIVE PLASTER. — Take of common Plaster, half a pound; of burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound. Melt them to- gether. See Common Plaster. This plaster is principally used for keeping on other dressings. ADULTERATION OF ALE AND BEER.—They are often adulterated with the most virulent poisons, which in the intemperate, are gradually and constantly un- dermining the constitution. Ye intemperate ones, just think, ye are drinking cocidus indicus, a stupefyin g poison; tobacco, a dead- ly narcotic; sulphate of iron, poi- sonous; strychnine, or mix vomica, virulent poison; vitriol, and many other body-destroying articles. ADULTERATION OF COF- FEE, CHICORY, (fee.—Coffee is often adulterated with Chicory, oak or mahogany saw-dust, or roasted corn. In examining 34 speci- mens of ground Coffee, all, with three exceptions, were more or less sophisticated. Chicory also is often adulterated with ground acorns and roasted wheat, coloured with Ven- etian Red. Of 36 Brown Sugars examined, the Acarus insect was found in all but one, abundance of flour in four, and sand or stone grit in 11 instances. Mustard was found adulterated with wheaten flour, highly col- oured with Turmeric—49 tested loaves of Bread contained alum.— Only 8 of 56 specimens of ‘Broma,’ '•Soluble' and ‘Homoeopathic Cocoa,’ were really such, the rest having variable proportions of sugar, wheat, and potato flour, sago- meal, and red earthy matter. Three other Cocoas were made up of sugar, sago-meal, arrow-root, and potato flour; others with tap- ioca, starch, sugar, and earthy colouring matter, the latter ingre- dient being present in 7 of the 9 Rock and flaked articles, the nibs being chiefly mixed with Chicory. Quassia and Gentian are used instead of Hop, for bitter flavour to Beer; and the Sulphate of Cop- per to beautify Green Picldes and bottled fruits.—Cayenne and Curry Powder are often adulterated with, red lead and vermillion. Ar- row-root is often adulterated by Potato, Sago, and Tapioca Starch- es. Bread, by Pea-flour, Bone- dust, and Mashed Potatoes, with Alum, ‘Hards,’ and ‘Stuff.’ Butter with water and lard. Wheat Flour with Bean and Pea flours, Indian Corn, Bran, and Plaster of Paris. Ginger with Wheat, Sago, Potato Flour, and Mustard Husks.—Dr. W. Alex- ander on Adulteration. JEOLIAN HARP, To Manu- FACTiiiiE an.—Let a box be made of thin deal, the length to corre- spond exactlj' to the breadth of the window in which it is to be