388 SLU SMA —It is a good thing when a person is sleepless, to riso and apply fric- tion to the limbs with a flesh brush, or a coarse towel. SLIPPERY ELM BARK.— This tree, ulmus fulva, is a native of America. The powdered bark is now extensively sold and used in that country. It is used as an article of diet for invalids, on ac- count of its soothing and nutritious properties. Milk thickened with it makes excellent food for infants, for dyspeptic and consumptive pa- tients ; it subdues inflammation, and agreeably calms the system. According to the celebrated Dr. Beach, it is “demulcent, pectoral, diuretic, deobstruent, emollient, and refrigerant, useful in all bowel complaints, in scurvy, cutaneous eruptions, &c. In the form of a poultice, it is an admirable remedy (far exceeding any other known production in the world) for ulcers, tumours, swellings, wounds, chil- blains, burns, scalds, skin diseases, erysipelas, obstinate ulcers, scabs, &c.; and in sore mouth, or thrush, &c., used as a wash.” It quickly allays inflammation, promotes res- olution and suppuration. The tea is much used by the Indian wo- men to procure easy labour. In point of utility, it is of far more value than its weight in gold. It has rapidly come into use as an in- valuable medical agent. As an ingredient in injections, it is most valuable, healing, sooth- ing, and preventing any painful sensations. It may be obtained at the vendors of botanic medicines. SLUGS and SNAILS, to pro- tect trees from.—If the trees are planted against a wall, brush over tho wall gas tar. Or, mix com- mon tar and pitch, horse hair, an abundance of salt, and apply it to the wall in a band about 3 to 5 inches wide; and draw a circle round each tree of the same mix- ture. SMALL POX.—This dreadful disease is very infectious, attended with inflammatory fever, assum- ing sometimes a typhoid character, attended with nausea and vomit- ing, and upon the pressure of the stomach, with much pain. The constitution that has been once really under its influence is rarely liable to a second attack. When the pustules are separate from each other, it is termed distinct; and when they run together, it is de- nominated confluent. The first symptoms are shiver- ing pains in the head, back, and loins, redness of the eyes, fever, thirst, nausea, loss of appetite; and in some cases, a few hours be- fore the eruption, children are affected with convulsions. The eruption appears about the fourth day of the fever, first on the face, and afterwards on the neck, breast, and body. The pustules gradually enlarge, and proceed to maturation which is completed about the eleventh day after their first ap- pearance, when the inflammation and swelling abate, the eruption beginning to dry and scale off, and about the fifteenth day it entirely disappears. The confluent sort is attended with more violent symp- toms than the distinct, but observes the same period of termination. Dr. Beach says, “ The effluvia is very offensive; and I have seen worms, or maggots crawling in the flesh; and yet the patient has recovered.” This disease generally terminates favourably under judi- cious treatment, unless the subject of it is intemperate, in which case it proves very dangerous, or fatal. Treatment.—The great object is to assist nature to expel the mor- bific or poisonous matter from the system. If the patient has much