LEA LEM 221 two ounces; also two draclims of essence of musk, and six ounces of distilled water. LAVENDER, Compound Spirit of.—Spirit of lavender, H lb.; spirit of rosemary, 1 lb.; cinnamon, | oz.; nutmeg, oz.; red sanders, 2 drachms; digest for 10 days, and then strain off. It is taken from 40 to 80 drops upon loaf sugar, in cases of lowness of spirits, &c. LAX in the bowels, with pain. —Laudanum, 24 drops; spirituous cinnamon water, half a gill; if it cannot be got, use French Brandy. Take a table-spoonful at a time.— See Bowel Complaint. LAXATIVE POWDER for Horses.—Crocus of antimony, fine- ly levigated, nitre, cream of tartar, and flower of sulphur, of each 4 ozs. Powder and mix well together. A table-spoonful of this mixture may be given every night and morning a few times, in a mash of scalded bran, or a feed of com moistened with water. This pow- der is good for horses kept on dry meat; and for stallions in the spring, as they keep the body cool and open, and cause them to cast their coat, and make his skin as bright as silk. LEATHER, to clean.—Unco- loured leather may be cleaned by applying a solution of oxalic acid with a sponge. Dissolve in warm water. LEATHER-BOTTOMED CHAIRS, to restore the blackness of.—Take two yolks of eggs, and the white of one. Beat well, and shake in a botl le to make them thick like oil. Dissolve in a table-spoon- ful of spirits of wine, lump-sugar the size of a walnut. Thicken it with ivory-black, mix with the egg for use. Lay on with a brush; after a few minutes polish with a soft clean brush, till dry and shi- ning. Let it stand a day to harden. Shoes also may be done in the same way. LEATHER, to join.—Gutta 1 percha, J lb.; india rubber, 2 ozs.; J pitch 1 oz.; shellac, £ oz.; boiled i oil, 1 oz. Melt together, and use ’ hot. LEATHER, to make water- 1 proof.—Dissolve gutta percha, and india rubber in wood naptha. Rub over the soles and upper leather.— Or, melt boiled linseed oil, a pint; mutton suet, 1 lb.; bees wax, f lb.; 1 resin, J lb. Melt all together, and apply. LEEK and PILCHARD PIE. —Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers >j into a dish, and between the lay- ers, two or three salted pilchards I which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the | whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the , oven, lift up the side crust -with a knife, and empty out all the liquor; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. LEGS, Sore and Running.— Wash them in brandy, and apply elder leaves, changing twice a-day. This will dry up all the sores, ; though the legs were like a honey- comb.—Tried. I | Or, poultice them with rotten • apples.—Tried. But take also a purge or two every week. I i LEMON BISCUITS.—-Beat the yolks of 10 eggs, and the whites ■ j of 5, with 4 spoonfuls of orange , ^ flower water, till they froth up, then put in 1 lb. of sifted loaf su- gar ; beat it one way for 40 min- utes ; add § lb. of flour with the raspings of two lemons, and the pulp of a small one; butter the tin, and bake in a quick oven care- fully. Dust with sugar before placing in the oven. LEMON BLANCMANGE.—