SUG SUDORIFICS. Medicines causing much perspiration. SUDORIFIC, on FEVER POWDER.—Crawley root, 1 oz.; lobelia herb, | oz.; pleurisy root, 1 oz.; skunk cabbage, k oz. Pow- der, and mix them together. Dose, from a quarter to half a tea-spoon- ful every one hour and a half till perspiration i3 produced. It may be given in balm or common tea. In fevers, inflammations, influ- enza, and colds, this powder is in- valuable. It subdues irritation, corrects the pulse, improves respi- ration, and promotes sound natural sleep. It is sure, if properly ad- ministered, to arrest a fever. Keep it in a bottle, well corked. SUET DUMPLINGS.—Shred 1 lb. of suet; mix with 1J lb. ox flour, 2 eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Make it into two small balls. Boil 20 minutes. The fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred makes a more delicate dum- pling than suet. SUET PUDDING.—Take six spoonfuls of flour, 1 lb. of suet, shred small, 4 eggs, a spoonful of beaten ginger, a spoonful of salt, and a quart of milk. Mix the eggs and flour with a pint of milk very thick, and with the seasoning, mix in the rest of the milk with the suet. Boil two hours. SUGAR, to clarify.—Put the whites of two eggs in four pints of water; froth the water by whip- ping it with a whisk; put into a proper pan a loaf of sugar of 12 or 14 lbs., broken in pieces; wet it, and make it fall by adding two- thirds of the water in which the egg has been mixed ; set it upon the fire ; take care when it rises ; throw in a little cold water, and take it off, to let it fall and throw up the scum; in five or six minutes put it again on the fire, and con- SUG 411 tinue to skim it as it rises, throw- ing in a little water sufficient to keep it from flying over : when it is very pure it will rise no more ; take it off, and pass it through a wet bag or napkin. The first degree is the short thread; for which it must again be put upon the lire ; let it boil, till dipping the finger into it, and pressing it against the thumb, which on opening forms a thread and breaks, and runs back into a drop upon the finger. SUGAR, to clear all kinds of.— Take a little gum arabic, and a little isinglass dissolved in hot wa- ter; pour it when dissolved in your sugar, when it is boiling, and it will clear all the sediment to the top of the pan, which you must skim off as soon as it rises.—Loaf sugar may be cleared with the white of an egg, isinglass, or gum arabic. A little of each will do. SUGAR BOILING.—When you boil loaf sugar, to about 3 lbs. add a table-spoonful of vinegar; it prevents it from going too hard and glassy while you are making it up. You may make birds, &o. of all kinds, out of a loaf sugar, when boiled and pulled till white as snow. Loaf sugar also, when boiled, by pulling it very well, rolling it into long rolls and twisted a little, will make rock, which is commonly called snowy rock, or snow. Sugar when boiled may be made into small balls, called bull’s eyes. You may twist, roll, and cut it into any shape you choose. A marble stone must be provi- ded to make your paste on, also to pour your sugar on when boiled. —In purchasing all your articles, be careful to have them good and genuine. SUGAR CAKE.—Half a lh. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, 3 eggs, milk enough to form a dough. Beat