412 SUL SYL the butter and sugar together. Whisk the eggs light, and add them; then stir in the milk and flour alternately, so as to form a dough. Cut in cakes, and bake in a moderate oven. SUGAR GINGERBREAD.— Butter, 12 ozs.; sugar, finely pow- dered, 8 ozs.; ground ginger, 1 table-spoonful, and a little cinna- mon and nutmeg; beat these up to a foam ; beat well 4 eggs, and mix them with the other. Add a cup- ful of cream, a table-spoonful of saleratus, or bicarbonate of potass, dissolved in hot water. Stir in fine flour as long as it can be work- ed, and knead thoroughly. Roll into thin cakes; bake in a quick oven. SUGAR LOAF, to make. Take 6 lbs. of raw sugar, a little bullock’s blood and water, boil it, and skim till it is clear, and till it comes to a candy round the edges of the pan ; then pour it into a mould in the shape of a sugar loaf. Make strong lime water, and when the sugar is cold in the mould, pour the water over it. SUGAR PASTE.—For 1 lb. of flour, take a \ lb. of sugar, as much butter, a little salt, water, and an egg. This paste may serve for any second course dish. SUGAR PUFFS.—Beat up the whites of ten eggs, till they rise to a high froth; put them into a mor- tar, with as much double refined sugar as will make it thick; rub it well round the mortar; add a few carraway seeds, and take a sheet of wafer cake, and lay it on as broad as a sixpence, and high. Put in- to a moderate oven for 15 minutes, and they will look white. SULPHUR OINTMENT.— Take of hog’s lard prepared, four ounces ; Hour of sulphur, an ounce and a half; crude sal ammoniac, two drachms; essence of lemon, ten or twelve drops. Make them into an ointment. This ointment rubbed upon the parts affected will generally cure the itch. It is both the safest and best application for that purpose, and when made in this way, lias no disagreeable smell. SWEATING DROPS.—Take of camphor, saffron, ipecacuanha, opium, Virginian snake root, of each h oz.; Hollands gin, lk pint. Infuse 2 or 3 days. A wonderfully efficacious cure for fever and ague, after suitable evacuants. Dr. Beach says, “I find this the best medi- cine for fever and ague of any with which I am acquainted. In two cases this tincture removed the par- oxysms where other remedies fail- ed; one patient had been under homoeopathic treatment for many months. SWEETMEAT PUDDING.— Cover the dish with a plain puff paste; then take candied orange, or lemon peel, and citron, of each 1 oz.; slice them thin, and lay them all over the bottom of the dish. Beat up 8 yolks of eggs, and 2 Avhites, and put to them k lb. of sugar, and k lb. of melted butter. Mix all well together; put it on the sweetmeats, and bake it in a moderate oven an hour. SWELLINGS, Poultice for.— Take of barley-meal, or oatmeal, 6 ozs.; fresh leaves of Hemlock, bruised, 2 ozs.; vinegar, a suffi- cient quantity; boil together a lew minutes. It is very useful in re- ducing swelling of nearly every kind. SWISS PUDDING.—Butter a basin. Take bread crumbs, add a little sugar; then dissolve 1 oz. of butter; chop a few apples fine, and mix. Bake half an hour. SYLLABUB.—Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good