VER 438 VIN boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton-fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the ash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the venison. Garnish with currant jelly. VENISON, to stew a Shoulder of.—Let the meat hang till it is fit to dress; take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton-fat, that have lain a few hours in a little port wine, among it, and sprinkle ground pepper and allspice over it; roll it up tight, and tie it. Set in a stew-pan with some mutton or heef gravy not strong, half a pint of port wine; pepper and all- spice. Simmer it, closely covered, as slowly as you can, for three or four hours. When tender, take off the tape, and set the meat in a dish; strain the gravy over it; serve with currant-jelly sauce. VERMICELLI CREAM. Boil some vermicelli in milk until it becomes a marmalade; cool, and then mix it with a pint of cream, macaroni drops, orange flowers, and lemon peel, all chopped fine, with a little ground cinnamon, five eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste. Pour it upon the table dish. Bake it in a slow oven. VERMICELLI PUDDING.— Boil 4 ozs. of vermicelli in a pint of new milk till soft, with a stick or two of cinnamon. Then put in half a pint of thick cream, J lb. of butter, the same of sugar, and the yolks of 4 eggs. Bake without paste in an earthern dish. Another.—Simmer 2 ozs. of ver- micelli in a cupful of milk till ten- der ; flavour it with a stick or two of cinnamon, or other spice. Beat up 3 eggs, 1 oz. of sugar, half a pint of milk and a glass of wine. Add to the vermicelli. Bake in a slow oven. A. W. VERMICELLI SOUP.—Boil tender £ lb. of vermicelli in a quart of rich gravy; take half of it out, and to it add more gravy; boil till the vermicelli can be pulped through a sieve. To both put a pint of boiling cream, a little salt, and j lb. of Parmesan cheese. Serve with rasped bread. Add two or three eggs, if you like. Gu. Brown Vermicelli Soup is made in the same manner, leaving out the eggs and cream, and adding one quart of strong beef gravy. VERMIN in Childrens' heads, to destroy.—Take 1 oz. each of vinegar and stavesacre, J oz. of honey, do. sulphur, and 2 ozs. of sweet oil. Make into a liniment, and rub the head with it. VESSELS, to purify. All kinds of glass vessels and other utensils may be purified from smells of every kind, by rinsing them out well with charcoal pow- dered after the grosser impurities have been scoured off by sand and pearl-ash. VINEGAR, balsamic. — Take the best vinegar, a handful of lav- ender leaves and flowers, some hyssop, balm, thyme, savory, a handful of salt, and two heads of garlic; infuse these in the vine- gar three weeks. It is a good] remedy forwounds, spasms, sprains, ^ &c. By rubbing the hands and temples with it, and putting a little in the mouth, a person may go into foul air with safety. VINEGAR, from malt.—For 5 j gallons of malt liquor, mix j- oz. each of cream of tartar, bay salt, and alum, well powdered, with a gallon of the liquid boiling hot, and poured the instant it is dis- solved, and while it is hot, into tho cask. Cover the bung-hole with stiff brown pajoer, and in a few days you will find it a very fine vinegar.