BLA 65 BLA then add gradually half an ounce of oil of vitriol. Let the mixture stand two days. BLACKING, Matchless.-Take a quarter of a pound of ivory black, two ounces of the coarsest brown sugar, three pints of sour table beer; mix it well together, then throw in about a small table- spoonful of sweet oil, and as much vitriolic acid; stir it well together, and in a few hours bottle. BLACKING, OilPaste.—Ivory black, 2 lbs; treacle, 4 or 5 oun- ces ; oil of vitriol, 2 ounces; tan- ner’s oil, 5 ounces; (if this cannot be obtained, then use 4 ounces of best tallow, gum arabic, 1 ounce. Mix the oil and vitriol together, and let it stand 24 hours; dissolve the gum in a cupful of warm wa- ter ; then add three table spoonfuls of best vinegar; heat it and mix with the oil; &c., and then add the Ivory Black, Treacle and white of two eggs. A superior Blacking. BLACKING, Another. — A quarter of a pound of ivory black, a quarter of a pound of moist su- gar, a table-spoonful of flour; a piece of tallow the size of a walnut; and a small piece of gum arabic. Make a paste of the flour; and, while hot, put in the tallow ; then the sugar; and, afterwards, mix the whole well together in a quart of water. Sit. BLACK LACE, to clean.-Wind the lace round a board four inches wide. Make a lather of white soap and water, and then wash the lace with great care and a gentle hand ; rinse away the soapy water with clean, milk-warm water; then let it gently dry. Next day make some good strong tea—black tea is best—and dissol ve in it a little gum arabic, using about as much gum as one would sugar. Rinse the clean lace in this gum-tea several times. The tanning principle will restore the colour of the lace, the gum will impart stiffness. Before the lace is quite dry it must be folded backwards and forwards be- tween the alternate leaves of an old book, and then pressed. BLACK LACE, to clean.—Pass the lace through a warm liquor of bullock’s gall and water; after- wards rinse in cold water; then take a small piece of glue, pour boiling water on it, and again pass the lace through it; clap it with your hands, and frame it to dry. BLACK PAPER for transfer. —Mix well together fine lamp black and sweet oil, and a drop or two of turpentine. Apply it to soft sheets of paper with a flannel or a soft sponge. BLACK REVIVER. — First dip the cloth in, or apply to the article with a sponge, a solution of bichromate of potass. Then do in the same way with a decoction of logwood, and lastly with a little so- lution of copperas; this makes a capital black. Cloth is best dyed when it is boiled a little. Gu. BLACK SALVE, or, Healing Salve.—Olive Oil, 1 pint; Com- mon Resin, £ ounce; Bees’ wax, J ounce; Venice Turpentine, | ounce. Melt, raising the oil nearly to the boiling point; then gradu- ally add two or three ounces of powdered red lead while on the fire; do not burn it; boil slowly till it becomes a dark brown ; re- move from the fire, and add one drachm of powdered Camphor when it is nearly cold.—This is a first-rate healing salve, superior to most, is wonderful in burns, scalds, scrbfulous, fistulous, and all other ulcers. Spread on linen, and re- new daily. BLACK STAIN for WOOD. —Pour one quart of boiling water on half an ounce of commercial extract of Logwood; when the so- E