SHE 381 SHA gripe ; but this may be prevented by adding to the senna some aro- matic substance, as ginger, cinna- mon, &c. It is best to infuse it the night before taking it in warm (not boiling) water. The taste may be neutralized by mixing it with black tea, milk, and sugar. Alexandria senna is the best. It is chiefly given in the form of in- fusion. Take of senna leaves, 1J oz.; ginger, 1 drachm ; warm wa- ter, 1 pint. Pour the water on as above directed. Add J lb. of prunes, stewed separately, if you like. SENNA, another infusion of— Take of tamarinds, 1 oz.; senna, and crystals of tartar, each 2 drachms. Infuse 5 hours in a pint of hot water ; strain, and add an oz. or two of the aromatic tinc- ture. Persons easily purged, may leave out the tamarinds or the crystals of tartar. This is an agreeable cooling purge. A tea- cupful may be given every half hour till it operates. SENNA, compound tincture of. —Take of senna, 1 oz.; jalap, cor- iander seeds, and cream of tartar, of each £ an oz. Infuse them in a pint and a half of French brandy for a week, then strain the tincture and add to it 4 ozs. of fine sugar. This is an agreeable purge, and answers all the purposes of the Elixir Salutis andof Daffy’s Elixir. The dose is from 1 to 2 or 3 ozs. SENNA, Electuary of—Senna leaves, finely powdered, 4 ozs.; pulp of French prunes, 1 lb.; pulp of tamarinds, 2 ozs.; treacle, 11- pint ; essential oil of carraway, 2 drachms. Boil the pulps in the syrup to the thickness of honey; add the powder, and, when the mixture cools, the oil. Mix all well. SHALOTS, to pickle. The same as onions. SHALOT SAUCE.—Peel and cut small 5 or 6 shalots ; put them into a saucepan, with 2 spoonfuls of white wine, or sherry, 2 of wa- ter, and 2 of vinegar. Give them a boil up, and pour them into a dish, with a little pepper and salt. SHAVING OIL. — Soft soap, 3 lbs.; rectified spirits of wine, 2 quarts. SHEEP-DIPPING WASH.— White arsenic, powdered, J lb.; soft soap, 4| lbs. Beat these for a quarter of an hour, or until the arsenic is dissolved, in five gallons of water. Add this to the water sufficient to dip 50 sheep. SHELFORD PUDDING. — Mix ;] lb. of currants or raisins, 1 lb. of suet, 1 lb. of flour, 6 eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon shape six hours. SHERBET.—A species of ne- gus, without wine. It is good to allay thirst. It is made as under: 1. Take 9 Seville oranges, and 3 lemons; grate off the yellow rinds, and put the raspings into a gallon of water, and 3 lbs. of the finest sugar; boil to a candy. Take off the fire, and put into the juice the pulp of the above, and stir till it is almost cold. Put into bottles for use. 2. Pare 4 large lemons, and boil the peels in 6 quarts of water, and a little bruised ginger. Boil 15 minutes; then add 3 lbs. of sugar ; and when it is cold, put in the juice of the lemon, and strain. 3. Take 12 quarts of water, and 6 lbs. of Malaga raisins; slice 6 lemons into it, with 1 lb. of fine sugar; put them all together into an earthen pan ; stir three times a day for 3 days. Take them out and drain in a flannel bag. Bottle, but do not fill the bottles too full, lest they burst. It will be ready in a fortnight. SHERBET, Persian. Loaf