165 FIS FIS 1 gill; Shalot Vinegar, a wine- glassful; mixed mushroom and walnut ketchup, J pint in equal proportions, the juice of a lemon, with its peel chopped fine, two an- chovies honed, three tea-spoonfuls of soluble cayenne pepper, two table-spoonfuls of horse-radish vinegar, and a tumbler of port wine. Bottle, and for two or three weeks shake frequently. FISHING-ROD VARNISH. —Equal parts of Canada balsam and fine turpentine, warmed to- gether for several hours, make an excellent varnish. Or, alcohol, one pint; Venice turpentine, a quarter of a pint; gum sandarach, 4 ozs.; gum mastic in tears, 1 oz.; resin, 2 ozs.; heated by ether till dissolved. FISTULA. — This disease is seated near the anus and rectum, in the form of abscess, or ulcer, emitting an offensive discharge. It may be caused by derangement of the liver, costiveness, or great laxity, high living, intemperance, bruises, piles, &c. It is first known by a painful swelling near the rec- tum, inflammation, a pressure up- on the bladder, or urethra, supres- sion of urine, great pain in passing the fceces. The treatment generally is by the knife; but we prefer the reform practice of America; for cures by the knife are very rare indeed. Dr. Beach says, “Moderate ex- cessive inflammation; diminish painful symptoms; promote sup- uration; if the swelling cannot e discussed. Apply to the swell- ing the Discutient Ointment, which see: afterwards foment with bitter herbs, tansy, wormwood, hore- hound, catnep, hops, a handful of each—make a decoction. Put in- to a vessel, and add half a pint of soft soap. Put a board across the vessel, or tub, and let the patient sit over it for twenty minutes, covered with a blanket, except the head, to retain the steam. Repeat several times a day.” It often re- lieves the most painful cases. Apply the Discutient Ointment as often as possible; also a poul- tice made of linseed meal, and powdered slippery elm bark, re- newing it every day. If the pain prevents sleep, take a little of the Diaphoretic Powder at bed-time. Promote perspiration by bathing the feet daily, drinking balm and hyssop tea. The bowels must be kept open by emollient purgatives; but if internal medicines cause pain, injections must be given; of warm water mixed with butter, or castor oil. This treatment will ripen the abscess; itis the best to let it breakspontaneously; after which the Black Salve will be found of great service, introduced into the ulcer by means of small tents of lint. Inject also into the anus a weak solution of carbonate of pot- ash ; or castile soap and water. It renders the discharge more healthy. Wash the fistula twice a day with salt and water. After the painful symptoms are gone, the patient can scarcely tell whether he is im- proving or not, though the fistula may be daily decreasing. FISTULA.—Use a sitz-bath as often as you can bear it. Wash muscle shells clean, bum them to powder, sift them fine, mix them with hogA lard, spread it on clean wash-leather, and apply it. This cured one who was thought to be at the point of death. N.B. This also cures the piles. FISTULA LACI1RYMALIS. This is a swelling, and inflamma- tion in the inner comer of the eye, caused by an obstruction of the tear-duct. Steam over the vapour of camomile and groundsel tea, for thirty minutes twice a day.