370 SAU SAU ter the size of a walnut, shake it well, in order to mix it, without breaking the ingredients. SAUCE, a la Nonpareille.—Cut some ham into dices, with the same weight of mushrooms or truffles; ut them into a stewpan, with a it of butter, upon a slow fire, and simmer 15 minutes. If the sauce is to be white, put three skimming spoonfuls of white cullis. If brown, add half a glass of port wine, and seasoning; put in the whites of hard eggs, and mushrooms, in the same quantity as the ham and truffles, and cut in the same way; also, lobsters’ tails, and spawn, if there be any ; finish with a bit of butter. SAUCE, Excelsior.—Put into a saucepan a wineglassful of vinegar, some garlic, shalots, a laurel leaf, thyme, and pepper. Put on the fire till reduced to half the quan- tity. Add to it some gravy or soup. Pass it through a sieve; rub some butter into a little flour, and add it to the sauce, with finely chopped herbs. Excellent for cut- lets, or warmed slices of meat, &c. SAUCE, Grande.—Chop two shalots very fine, and a small hunch of parsley. Beat up the yolks of two or three eggs, and add Florence oil till the mixture is pretty thick. Add two tea-spoon- fuls of the best vinegar, a small one of salt, and one of soluble cayenne, and then mix all with the shalots and parsley. SAUCE, Italienne.—Cut twelve dices of ham, and put it into a stewpan, with a handful of mush- rooms well minced, and a sliced lemon, from which the peel and seeds must be taken; add a spoon- ful of hashed shalot, washed and dried in a cloth, half a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a gill of oil; put them all upon the fire; when near- ly ready, take out the lemon, and put in a spoonful of minced pars- ley, a spoonful of Espagnole, a glass of good white wine, without reducing it, and a little pepper; reduce, skim, take out the ham, and when it has obtained its point, take it off. SAUCE, Lemon, for boiled Fowls.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint | of sweet rich cream, with a sprig ; of lemon-thyme, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gently, ! till it tastes well of the lemon; ; then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don’t boil them together, and salt to your taste. SAUCE, Menhold.—Put into a stewpan a bit of butter broken in pieces ; shake over it a little flour, and add a little milk or cream; season it with parsley, young onions, a small bay-leaf, mush- rooms, and shalots; put it on the 1 fire and stir often; pass it through 5 a sieve; put it on the fire with j some parsley and a little pepper. SAUCE, Poivrade.—Cut twelve small dices of ham, and put them into a stewpan, with a little bit of C butter, five or six branches of pars- a ley, two or three young onions cut to in two, a clove of garlic, a bay- to leaf, a little sweet basil, thyme, and two cloves; put them together upon a quick fire ; when they are in well done, put in a little fine pep- per, a large spoonful of vinegar, i,; and four spoonfuls of cullis or broth, tej, not reduced; shake and boil it, lit/ draw it to the edge of the stove, i;- and let it simmer three quarters of n'j an hour; skim, and pass it through ^ a sieve or colander.