200 HOR HOR feathery; (See Sugar); add the juice to the sugar, and boil till it is again the same height, stir till it is thick; pour into a paper case dusted with fine sugar, and cut into squares. HOREHOUND CAKES. Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in one pint of water, till candied ; then rub a little dried horehound into the pan while boiling. Pour it on buttered paper. HOREHOUND SYRUP. — Dried horehound, 2 ozs.; honey, J lb.; boiling water, £ pint; spirits, £ pint; honey, 4 oz.; laudanum, 20 drops; essence of lemon, 1 teaspoonful. Infuse the horehound in the spirits and water for 2 days; then add the other ingredients. HORSE RECIPES. — The following Recipes are very useful: —Horse Ointment.—Resin 4 ozs.; bees’ wax, 3 ozs.; hog’s lard f lb.; common turpentine, 6 ozs; dissolve in a pipkin with a gentle heat; then add 2 ozs. of fine verdigris, stir well together, and strain the whole through a coarse cloth: cool for use. This is a good ointment for a wound, or bruise in flesh or hoof, broken knees, galled backs, bites, cracked heels, mallenders, or, when a horse is gelded, to heal and keep off the flies. Purge for a horse.—Aloes, 1 oz; rhubarb, 2 drs.; oil of mint, 4 drops, made into a ball with honey. Cordial for a horse.—If the horse is weak through travel, give him a pint of warm ale, with 1 oz. of diapente in it. Diapente will com- fort his bowels, drive out cold and wind, and may cause him to carry his food the longer.—Diapente is composed of gentian root, bay ber- ries, bay leaves, birthwort, mint, and myrrh. Sore bach.—If the saddle bruises his back and makes it swell, a greasy dishcloth laid on hot, and a cloth over it, bound on fifteen min- utes, (with a surcingle), and re- ?eated once or twice, will sink it flat, f it is slight, wash it with a little salt and water only. Alter the saddle, that it may not press upon the tender part, for a second bruise will be worse than the first. Splint.—The splint is a fixed, callous, bony excrescence, growing upon the flat of the inside or out- side, of the shark bone; a little under, and not far from the knee, and may be seen and felt.—Cure. To take it off, first cut the hair close, then gently beat it with a round rule until it appears hot to the touch, then rub hard soap all a- round the edge of the splint, to prevent the blister affecting any other part, and apply on the splint the following blister ointment: mercurial ointment, 1 oz.; Span- ish flies, 2 drs., mixed well to- gether ; a little of this may be ap- plied once a week until the splint is removed. Spavin.—The Spavin is of the same nature, and appears, in like manner, on the instep bone behind, not far below the hough.—Cure. The same blister as recommended for splints: if it fails, firing and turning the horse to grass for three months, is the best method. HORSES, to water.—Water is as necessary to a horse as food, and horses are found to thrive better by having water ad libitum than by being stinted. The best way is to have the manger divided, so that corn may be in one half and the water in the other: by this plan the horse takes the water as he wants it, and not when it is offered to him. The plan of having the water in the manger has been tried by a great number of the London merchants, and found to answer admirably.