78 BRE BRE plying the Bitter-sweet Ointment, and the Adhesive Strengthening Plaster. If there he chill, it must be removed by perspiration. For this purpose take the Sudorific Powder. Also, take a teaspoonful of best Rum, a teaspoonful of gin- ger, quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper; boil four or five minutes, and thicken with coarse flour, or ground elm bark, or slip- pery elm ; put a little oil upon the breast, then apply the poultice, and repeat three or four times. It generally cures. If the pain be excessive, add a small quantity of Laudanum to the poultice. This generally cures. In hard swellings of the breast, rub with sweet oil, or friction with Soap Liniment; a drachm of Com- pound Tincture of Iodine to each ounce will render it more effectual. The bowels should be kept gently open, to subdue the fever. When matter has formed, it is best to let it break and discharge spontaneously; or it may be punc- tured with a lancet. An abscess in the breast will discharge a long time. The diet therefore should be nutritious, light and strength- ening. A warm bread poultice is good for an abscess; it should be changed every four or five hours, and covered with oiled silk. When the discharge has nearly ceased, simple warm water dressings may be substituted, and then apply the Black Salve, which see. BREASTS, Hard. Apply turnips roasted till soft, mashed and mixed with a little oil of roses. Change twice a day, keeping the breast warm with flannel. BREASTS, sore and swelled.— Boil a handful of Camomile, and as much Mallows in milk and wa- ter. Foment with it between two flannels, as hot as can be borne, every twelve hours. This also dissolves any knot or swelling in any part. W i-sley. BREATH, Foetid.—The smell may proceed from the lungs or the stomach, but in nine cases out of ten it originates in the stomach, and the following is a simple and prompt remedy:— Three hours after a meal take a large teaspoonful of a solution of six parts of chlorate of potash in 120 parts of sugared water, and at the same time rinse out the mouth well with the same solution. When the breath is tainted with onions, eat parsley and vinegar, or orris root, or gum kino. Or, take a dose of rhubarb and magnesia occasionally; finely pow- dered charcoal has been recom- mended ; also a decoction of cam- omile and wormwood. For impure breath caused by decaying teeth, chew Orris root, and Peruvian bark, or use the same as a powder. Or take charcoal powder, powder- ed myrrh, powdered cuttle-fish, carbonate of soda, and a drop or two of oil of cloves. Keep the mixture in the mouth as long as possible. BREATHING, Difficult. Yitriolated Spirits of Ether, 2 ounces; Camphor, 15 grains; Paregoric, J ounce; Ipecacuanha wine, a tablespoonful; water, half a pint. Mix, and cork well. Take a teaspoonful when the breathing is laborious. It relieves at once. BREAST PANG.—Called An- gina Pectoris. This is a sudden and most violent pain across the chest, particularly about the breast bone extending towards the arms, attended with difficulty of breath- ing, and a sense of suffocation, seeming to threaten immediate dissolution. In the young:, it arises from nervous irritibility of the heart, or internal muscles of the chest; but, in old persons, it