APPENDIX 8 ”3 the case of a Laundry Work Course, on account of each scholar registered in the Course. Combined Domestic Subjects. 22. A Course of instruction in Combined Domestic Subjects must include Cookery, Laundry Work and Housewifery. Such a Course must provide for at least 100 hours’ instruction, and may provide for any higher multiple of 10 hours up to 200 hours. About 40 per cent, of the time provided by the Course should be assigned to Cookery, about 20 per cent, to Laundry Work, and about 40 per cent to Housewifery. In each of these subjects at least half the time must be given to practical work by "the scholars with their own hands. 23. (a) Scholars registered in a Course in Combined Domestic Subjects must, as a rule, have previously undergone at least one full Course of instruction in both Cookery and Laundry Work, but this condition may be relaxed in cases in which the equipment of the Centre and the syllabus of instruction have been specially approved by the Board. (b) The number of scholars registered in a course must not exceed 42. For practical work the class must not exceed fourteen in number. After July 31, 1908, the number of scholars who may be registered in a Course in Combined Domestic Subjects will be reduced to eighteen, and the number of scholars who may be taught in a class for practical work will be increased to the same number. This Regulation may, with the approval of the Board, be brought into operation in the case of any Course beginning after August 1, 1907. (c) The scholars registered in a Course in Combined Domestic Subjects must be girls who are over twelve years of age at the date of the first lesson, with the exception that not more than one-sixth of the registered scholars may be girls who are between the ages of eleven and twelve at the date of the first lesson, if it is shown to the Board that such an arrangement is desirable in any case in view of the organization of the ordinary school-work. 24. A teacher will be regarded as qualified to give instruction in Combined Domestic Subjects to scholars in Public Elementary