APPENDIX hi 18. No scholar may be registered in more than one Course in any one subject during the same Special Subjects Year, with the exception that girls over thirteen years of age at the beginning of the Special Subjects Year, who have not previously received any instruction in Cookery, may be registered in not more than two Courses in that subject, which must not be concurrent, during one such year. Cookery and Laundry Work. 19. (a) Every Course in Cookery must provide for not less than 48 hours, and every Course in Laundry Work for not less than 24 hours’ instruction. Not less than half the time provided by the Course must be assigned to practical work by the scholars with their own hands. (<b) The scholars registered in any Course may not exceed 54 in number for a Cookery, and 42 for a Laundry Work Course. At practical work a class for Cookery must not exceed 18 scholars, and for Laundry Work 14. After July 31, 1908, the number of scholars who may be registered in a Cookery or Laundry Work Course will be reduced to 18, and the number of scholars who may be instructed in a class at practical Laundry Work will be increased to 18. This Regulation may, with the approval of the Board, be brought into operation in the case of any Course beginning after August 1, 1907. (e) The scholars registered in any Course must be girls who are over eleven years of age at the date of the first lesson, with the exception that not more than one-sixth of the registered scholars may be girls who are between the ages of ten and eleven at the date of the first lesson, if it is shown to the Board that such an arrangement is desirable in any case in view of the organization of the ordinary school-work. (d) With the special sanction of the Board, boys in seaport towns over twelve years of age may be registered in a Cookery Course. 20. (a) A teacher will be regarded as qualified to give instruction in Cookery to scholars in Public Elementary Schools, either in Centre Courses or in School Courses, if either— (i.) she holds a Full Diploma for Cookery recognized under the Regulations for the Recognition by