FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 68 is destroyed by the acid contents of the stomach, it is useless to give pancreatic extract along with food; it must either be administered by the bowel, or else protected from the action of the gastric juice by being enclosed in capsules of keratin, a substance unaffected by acids, but soluble in alkalies, thus liberating the contents of the capsule at the proper place. In considering the processes in the intestine it may be proper here to enumerate the functions of Bile, reserving the struc- ture of the liver for further treatment. Bile, although an excretion, i.e. a waste product, plays an important part in diges- tion and absorption, especially of fat. It is a bronze-coloured liquid, bitter, slightly sticky owing to mucus, and neutral in reaction, though containing in combination with soda two acids known as the bile-acids. It is a powerful solvent of fats and oils, and, indeed, ox-gall is one of the strongest soaps known. In the absorption of fat, bile assists in emulsifying neutral fats, and at the same time it moistens the intestinal wall, so that the minute globules can be absorbed with perfect ease. In dogs, when the bile was not allowed to enter the bowel, it was found that only two-fifths of the fat in the food was absorbed, the rest being excreted as waste, whereas in ordinary digestion almost all the fat was absorbed. Besides its chemical action, bile moistens the bowel wall and keeps the contents of the bowel fluid, thus acting as a natural pur- gative. It seems to have an antiseptic action within the body, arresting putrefaction, and hence in liver disorders, such as jaundice, the stools become hard, clay-coloured, and offensive. SUMMAEY. 1. The small intestine is a muscular tube, 20 feet long, lined with mucous membrane. 2. It is characterized by valvule conniventes and villi, projections of the mucous membrane. 3. By muscular contractions peristalsis is produced, in intensity depending upon the contents of the intestine and the nature of the blood supplied. . . . 4. The digestive juices in the intestine are: 1, intestinal puce; 2, pancreatic juice; 3, bile. 5. Excess of fluid in the intestine produces diarrhoea; defect, con- stipation. 6. Pancreatic juice contains ferments capable of acting on all classes of foods.