ANIMAL FOOD. 151 liver, it will readily be understood that liver will be most profitable when eaten along with some fatty food, such as bacon. The average composition of calf-liver is given as follows:— Water, 72-33 Proteids, 20-10 Fat, 5-58 Kidneys, like liver, are very firm and close in texture, and are therefore difficult of digestion, and the difficulty is increased by over-cooking, since the kidney in that case becomes an indigestible leathery mass. Sheep's kidney con- tains 17 per cent of proteids and 2 per cent of fat. The use of Blood as a food was forbidden to Noah and his descendants, i.e. to the whole human race, and modern taste, though far from being subservient to the Scriptures, has approved the verdict. The only blood used for food is pig's blood in the familiar "black pudding", and even that is rather a pudding of groats, enriched with fat and seasoned and coloured with blood. The Brains of animals are used as food on the Continent. They are very watery, rich in fat, and therefore not very easily assimilated. A more useful source of food is Bones. All the connective tissues, including bone and cartilage, yield varieties of gelatine on boiling, and though gelatine is not so easily assimilated as albumen, say only to the extent of one-third as much, still the amount of gelatine obtained from bones furnishes a food- supply not to be despised, and specially useful in soup-making. 3 lbs. of bone contain as much carbon as 1 lb. of meat, and as much nitrogen as 7 lbs. of meat. To get the maximum amount of gelatine the bones are broken up into small pieces, and digested at 150° C.; best in a digester or high-pressure pot. Gelatine is very soluble in hot water, and sets to a jelly on cooking; it forms the basis of the several varieties of potted meats. Poultry and Game are characterized by short muscular fibre, a small amount of fat, and a large amount of phosphates in the ash. Birds like the common fowl, guinea-fowl, and turkey, which give a white flesh, are the most easy of diges- tion, being tender and of a delicate flavour. A young well- fed chicken is the most digestible of all animal foods, but it is apt to pall on the taste after a while, and so is taken occasion- Glycogen and Sugar, 0-45 Salts, 1-54