FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 38 2. They are subdivided into starches, sucroses, and glucoses. 3. Starch is obtained from all parts of plants, notably the root, stem, and seeds, and constitutes the great bulk of farinaceous foods. 4. Starch is converted into dextrin by heating, and by the action of acids. 5. Ptyalin and other diastatic ferments convert it first into dextrin, then into maltose or sugar of malt. 6. Digestion thus begins in the mouth. 7. Cellulose, unless when young, is indigestible. Lesson 8.-SUGARS. In the preceding lesson we had examples of the conversion of starch into Sugar in the ripening of fruits, in the process of malting, and in salivary digestion. By using sugar stored up by ripe plants another stage in the digestion of vegetables will be saved, as it were. Sugar occurs in nearly all plants, but is specially obtained from the sugar-cane, beetroot, and maple-tree. The canes are crushed between rollers, and the juice after being freed as much as possible from vegetable fibre is evaporated in a vacuum-pan, and in this way there are obtained large crystals of raw sugar, which have now to be refined to get rid of their colouring matter. The form of sugar obtained from cane or beet is sucrose or cane-sugar; the kind found in milk, and of the same composition, is lactose or milk-sugar; while maltose or malt-sugar is formed in the process of malting. In this the grain is roasted in a kiln at a moderate temperature till it shows signs of sprouting, when the temperature is raised to arrest further growth. The grain, now called malt, is now brownish, part of the starch having been transformed into dextrin, and it is distinctly sweeter in taste, showing that a good deal of the starch has been further changed into sugar. The object of malting is of course to convert the insoluble starch into sugar and dextrin, which are both soluble in water. These three sugars, cane-sugar, lactose, and maltose, consti- tute one division of the carbohydrates called the Sucroses or Saccharoses. They all have the same chemical composition, namely:—carbon 42-1, hydrogen 6'4, oxygen 51-5 parts per cent. Ordinary cane-sugar dissolves readily in cold water in the proportion by weight of three of sugar to one of water. Hot