201 FOOD ACCESSORIES. Lesson 37.—FOOD ACCESSORIES. Under the name of Geniissmittel, or "means of enjoyment", as opposed to means of subsistence, the Germans include a great variety of substances, comprising most fruits and green vegetables, as well as beverages, spices, and condiments. Leaving for further treatment all beverages, alcoholic or not, this lesson may be confined to certain saccharine matters not fully treated in the lesson on sugar, as well as to those parts of plants generally used as spices or appetizers. The relations of Glucose to cane-sugar have already been discussed, and it was shown that it is formed from the latter by " inversion " on long-continued boiling, or by the action of acids, resulting in a loss of sweetness, since glucose is only about three-fifths as sweet as ordinary sugar. On this account a little vinegar is added to cane-sugar when boiling syrup for bees, so as to imitate the mixture of dextrose and levulose found in honey. Although all carbohydrates are converted by digestion into dextrose, the latter is apt to cause acidity and flatulence if mixed with the food of dyspeptic persons, since it is easily decomposed and prone to set up acid fermenta- tion. It is made from starch, and is used in large quantities for adulterating or even making honey, and for distilling, being readily fermentable. Jaggery, date-sugar or palm-sugar, is obtained from the sap of various palms. Glycyrrhiza or Liquorice Sugar is formed from the liquorice plant, and is grown in Surrey, as well as imported for the purpose of making porter. As Spanish juice it is a useful agent in catarrh of the throat, and it differs from ordinary sugar in neither fermenting nor crystallizing. As sold in the shops it is frequently adulter- ated; the best sticks are those stamped "Solazzi ", and sold by weight. Honey shows the following composition:— Water at 100° C, 18-07 per cent. Water above 100° C, 7*99 „ Levulose, ... ... ... 36'22 ,, Dextrose, 37'58 „ Ash 0-14 „ It is thus essentially a mixture of levulose and dextrose, but it contains in addition mannite or manna-sugar, wax, organic acids, pollen, alkaloid matters and bitters derived from plants