256 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. SUMMARY. 1. Diet should be regulated to keep pace with physiological changes. 2. An infant is carnivorous, and should not receive starchy foods till the 7th or 8th month, any solid food before that being predigested by extract of malt, or consisting of dextrin and sugary matters. 3. Children need a liberal diet, four meals a day with short intervals between, and no "pieces" in these intervals. 4. The evil of adult feeding is excess, coupled with insufficient muscular exercise, leading to sedentary troubles and metabolic irregularities. 5. In declining years food should be diminished to correspond both in quality and quantity with the declining energies. Lesson 44.—FOOD IN SICKNESS. Science has been described as "organized common-sense ', and this description is specially true of modern medicine, based as it is upon the sciences of physiology and chemistry, including under the latter, diet and the action of drugs. Although in a single lesson it is impossible even to sketch the proper diet for each disorder, still it may be worth while to indicate at least some of the principles which should guide a nurse or a patient, leaving it to systematic woi'ks on medicine to supply the details. To illustrate the dietetic treatment of diseases, we may take the class of Fevers. In all these assimilation is greatly interfered with, and in acute cases scarcely any food at all is absorbed by the stomach, so that nearly all digestion is intestinal, and even that is enfeebled. In a fever, moreover, two things must be kept in view—(1) to check waste of tissue, and (2) to keep up nutrition, and without hav ing recourse to the extreme methods of Drumtochty, which demand a consti- tution to match, it is easy to lay down general rules for guidance in matters of diet. Since the digestive processes, especially in the stomach, are much impaired, it is quite out of the question to give "strong" foods, such as beef-tea or eggs, in the mistaken search for strength, for every invalid must return for purposes of diet to the condition of a child, and in severe cases to that of an infant even. Fever patients are generally overfed, and even milk, bland as it is, will be