120 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. of this very likely forms fat, and it certainly does so in fatty degeneration; but whatever the intermediate stages, albumen certainly leaves the body in much simpler forms, in the putre- factive products of the intestine and the several organic matters in urine, but above all as uric acid and especially urea. Out- side the body these are further oxidized into carbonic acid, water, and ammonia. Returning to the figure of an engine; just as some coals are better than others for steam-raising purposes, so certain foods contain a greater store of chemical energy than others. Thus, for heat-giving purposes, as measured by a calorimeter, it was seen on p. 17 that fat was far above other foods, and in the proportions quoted these foods are said to be isodynamic, i.e. capable of yielding equal amounts of energy. It is one thing, however, to burn foods in a calorimeter, and quite another thing to digest them within the body. Thus albumen, gelatin, and the keratin of the nails and horn, have a similar chemical composition and are nearly equal in dynamic powers, and yet everyone knows that gelatin is worth only one-third of the same weight of albumen, while horn clippings are simply indigestible. Or, to take a more practical case, starch and cellulose are identical in chemical composition and calorimetric results, but starch, whether as potato starch or in the more expensive but not more useful arrowroot, is easily digested, Avhile cellulose as eaten in most vegetables is as indigestible as in its familiar form of paper. One must not be misled, there- fore, by analyses which profess to show a certain amount of nitrogenous or carbohydrate foods; it is necessary to know in what precise condition these principles are, for they may be of such a nature as to be wholly useless to the body, if not irri- tating or worse. The average amount of energy put out daily by a working- man is 300 foot-tons, i.e. as much as would be required to lift a ton 300 feet vertically upwards, or roughly, as much as is expended in a 16-mile walk by a person of average weight. In order to raise this amount of external work the body has to liberate 1500 foot-tons per day of internal energy, mostly in the shape of heat; so that the body is capable of yielding of its total energy in the shape of mechanical work, whereas the very best steam-engine transforms little more than i of the chemical energy of the coal into work. By various processes, mechanical, chemical, and vital, the ingested materials are converted into fluids or emulsions, which