METHODS OK COOKING. 273 a deep saute-pan, best fitted with a grating or frying basket. Into this is put as much oil as will cover the article, say fish, that is to be fried, and the oil is heated till it browns a bit of bread held in it for a second or two. The fish is now put into the hot oil and allowed to brown, and when the surface albumen is thoroughly coagulated the pan is drawn aside, as in boiling with water, and the process finished at a lower tem- perature. The fish may now be lifted out by the tray and the oil drained off, which it will do all the more readily owing to its great fluidity when heated; the oil may be used again and again unless it has been smoking, a sign of overheating and consequent decomposition. Fish are often prepared for frying by being coated with egg and afterwards dipped in bread- crumbs. Owing to the fact that boiling oil is about half as hot again as boiling water, the egg albiimen coagulates instantly, thus forming a protective skin, while the bread-crumbs are turned into dextrin or even caramelized. If the latter are coarse or thickly spread they absorb some of the oil, a thing to be avoided. The best medium for this purpose is ordinary olive-oil of second quality, good kitchen dripping does about as well, and lard worst of all. Stewing occupies a position similar to that of roasting on the one hand, and soup-making on the other. As in the latter process, the object is to make an extract of all the nutritive juices of the food, which are then used to cook the article; it is thus cooking by means of heated juices previously extracted from the food itself. A low steady heat is wanted for this purpose, and gas-cookers supply this to perfection. The meat is freed from bones, cut into pieces of a convenient size and seasoned, then the bones are broken up and laid in the pot with the meat above them with salt, and the whole coA^ered with cold water, covered closely, and placed near the fire so as to maintain a steady low temperature, about three-fourths of that of boiling water. If vegetables are added, as in Irish stew, they are best put in later on, finely chopped, and accompanied by bay leaves, sage, cloves, or other aromatics, the odour of which would be dissipated on continued heating. The slower the stew the better is it done; tough meats may be rendered more digestible by the addition of a little vinegar to loosen their fibres and cenvert them into acid albumens. Since nothing is lost in this process, it is the most economical of any, and after the preliminary chopping of meat and vegetables needs no attention for hours if the heat is sufficiently low. (M173) s