RESPIRATION. 101 the remedy is to withdraw the blood from the head as much as possible, either by bathing the feet and legs in hot water so as to relax their vessels, or by evacuating the bowels so as to induce an increased flow to them, or by open-air exercise, which fetches the limb muscle into play and withdraws blood in their direction. SUMMAEY. 1. Blood is conveyed from the heart by arteries, to the heart by veins. 2. Arteries are distinguished from veins by the nature of their -walls, the presence of a pulse in them, and the absence of valves. 3. Exchange of materials between blood and tissue takes place in the capillaries, these materials being liquids and gases. 4. The circulation is maintained by pressure due to the heart's action. 5. The heart consists of two parts, each with collecting and pro- pelling chambers, and having no connection with each other. 6. The right side of the heart is respiratory, being concerned with venous blood only. 7. The left side of the heart supplies the system, and is occupied with aerated blood only. 8. Both parts of the heart work together, and in rhythmic order, according to the cardiac cycle. 9. The heart is the first or-gan to be supplied with blood, and is therefore the first to feel the effects of bad blood. Lesson 20.—RESPIRATION. In the early lessons of this book it was shown that the body resembled a steam-engine in that it was a machine for the production of energy, and that, like the steam-engine, it pro- duced that energy by chemical means from food which served it as fuel. But for combustion there is required not merely fuel but oxygen, and a certain temperature above or below which the various chemical changes involved cannot go on, or do so imperfectly. This temperature in our case is blood-heat, about 39° C. (98-99° F.), and it seems to be the temperature best suited to the activity of the living cells, which after all are the working elements of our frame. A rise of a very few degrees above this constitutes fever, and a slight fall leads to