16 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. What we have learned:— 1. Air is necessary for combustion. 2. It consists of uitrogen (£) and oxygen (£), with a trace of car- bonic acid gas. 3. The oxygen is the active constituent of the air. 4. Elements combining with oxygen form oxides. 5. Some of these oxides are acids. 6. Acids may be recognized by their sour taste, and by reddening blue litmus. 7. Heat is evolved in chemical action. 8. Animals are oxidizing agents, forming carbonic acid, water, &c. 9. Plants are reducing agents, liberating oxygen. Lesson 3.—HYDROGEN. In the previous lessons it has been seen that when bread, wax, wood, &c, bum in air there is generally water formed, and that water is therefore the oxide of some substance or other. To discover this substance and examine it more fully an experiment or two will be required, and this time the method of reduction will be employed. When steam is passed through a red-hot gun-barrel filled with iron-turnings and connected by a delivery-tube to a pneumatic trough, there is obtained a gas which, like oxygen and nitrogen, has neither colour, taste, nor smell. It differs from oxygen, however, in its behaviour with respect to a lighted taper; the taper goes out when inserted into a jar of the gas, but the latter burns with a pale-blue, almost invisible and very hot flame. Further, when the glass jar is observed it will be seen to be quite dim, showing that water is formed, and that the gas in question is hydrogen, an element found in all foods and whose oxide is water. In that experiment the iron acted as a reducing agent, depriving the water of oxygen so as to form iron oxide, and liberating hydrogen gas. The production of water in this way may be utilized as a means of estimating the amount of hydrogen in a substance, for of the water hydrogen forms i by weight, the other £ being oxygen. There are several metals besides iron capable of decomposing water; two of them, sodium and potassium, do so without the aid of heat, and form the im- portant substances soda and potash respectively. Water may also be decomposed by passing through it a strong electric ( M 173 )