FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 70 succeeded by the rectum, in which the waste materials of digestion are received until they can be expelled from the body. The residue or faeces amounts to about five ounces per day, but the amount varies with the nature of the food taken, being small after a flesh diet, and large if the amount of indigestible material is great, as in vegetable feeding. The large intestine has a structure like that of the small bowel, having an outer serous coat of peritoneum, two muscular coats, the outer longitudinal and the inner circular, a submu- cous layer, and innermost the mucous layer. The outer muscles, instead of forming a continuous sheet, as in the small intestine, are in the caecum and colon confined to three bands, which give those parts a puckered appearance, the bowel being pouched or "gathered", as if the bands of muscles were too short for its length. Villi and valvulae conniventes are no longer found in the mucous membrane, but glands and lymph follicles are still found. The large intestine retains its contents for about twelve hours, and all that time absorption of the more liquid portion proceeds rapidly, the residue becoming harder and drier. As might be supposed from the presence of the ileo-colic valve, the processes in the large intestine are sharply marked off from those in the upper part of the digestive tract, and in general the changes may be summed up in the phrase "putrefactive fermentation", due to organized ferments. These last, as distinguished from ptyalin-pepsin and other "soluble" ferments, are minute fungi, and are known by the various names of bacteria, bacilli, cocci, and so on. They are introduced from without, chiefly in food, since they are not found in the intes- tine before birth, and hence there are no gases developed in the bowel till then. A familiar example, and one which occurs also in the stomach, is the lactic-acid fermentation, as shown in the souring of milk. In this case the exciting cause is the lactic- acid bacillus, which decomposes milk-sugar, and forms it first into grape-sugar, which is then decomposed into lactic acid. This change invariably takes place in the stomach, and very often it is succeeded by the action of another bacillus, the butyric-acid bacillus, which decomposes any lactic acid formed, converting it into butyric acid and evolving carbonic acid gas and hydrogen. It is these gases which are so troublesome in indigestion owing to the stomach dilation produced, and the feeling of " heartburn " already referred to. Another fermentation with which we are familiar outside the