INTESTINAL DIGESTION. 65 If the bowel of an animal be stroked with the finger under water, the villi give the sensation of touching velvet pile, and in the ox and other animals they may be seen quite easily, though in man they are only from to ^ inch long. Villi are found only in the small intestine, and their number in man has been estimated at 4,000,000. Closely packed around the villi are the intestinal glands, one set consisting of simple tubes, the follicles of Lieberkiihn (b), and the other, branched and more deeply placed, the glands of Brunner, both supplying intestinal juice. Diges- tion in the small bowel is thus ac- complished by these separate juices: bile from the liver, pancreatic juice from the pancreas, and intestinal juice from the glands of the bowel itself; and, as might be expected from this complexity of action and peculiarity of structure, it is in the small intestine that digestion and absorption chiefly take place. Al- though absorption is very active here, so much fluid is poured into the bowel from these sources that at the end of the small intestine the digesting mass is as fluid as in the duodenum. When the mucous surface of the bowel is irritated by unsuitable food, these intestinal glands are over-stimulated, and the result is laxity of the bowels, which may pass into diarrhoea, and if the irritation be continued, the glands may become exhausted, and the bowels become " dry", causing constipation. The same result may be attained by the action of drugs on the nervous system, causing an increased supply of blood to these glands. On the other hand, if the food supplied be liquid or predigested, so as to be quite "bland" or non-irritative, the intestinal glands miss their usual stimulus, less juice is secreted, and constipation follows. Under ordinary circumstances food contains indigestible matter sufficient to induce a moderate flow of intestinal juice, and in this way the bowels are naturally kept open. Diarrhoea is thus due to excess of fluid in the bowel, as constipation is due to defect, and this consideration gives a clue to the dietetic treatment of (M173) E Fig. 9.—Microscopical Structure of the Small Intestine.