FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 132 become rancid. On melting a sample of butter in a test-tube, it should show not more than one-third of casein by weight, or one-third to one-half by bulk. The fats of butter are chiefly palmitin and olein, but always with these are small quantities of the volatile fatty acids, chiefly caproic and butyric, to which butter owes its peculiar odour. If a sample of butter be heated in a test-tube it froths if pure and gives off the peculiar butyric odour, whereas if adulterated with lard or tallow the smell of these compounds is at once perceived. Another way of testing butter is by melting it, and lighting a piece of wick immersed in the oil; any butryic or tallowy odour is at once discovered. The specific gravity of butter is also a fair test; pure butter is fairly heavy, ranging from 911 to 913, and it melts at 95° F., while adulterated butter has a specific gravity of 902 to 904, and artificial butter is lighter still, from 859 to 861, melting at 86° F. The presence of margarine in butter is easily re- cognized by the microscope in the following way:—Smear a cover-glass with butter so as to get a very thin film, and examine it on a slide by transmitted light; if the butter be pure the film appears homogeneous, but if adulterated crystals of margarine appear. When butter, or any fat, is warmed with potash or soda, either caustic or carbonate, it is saponified as explained in lesson 6, and this furnishes another means of distinguishing pure from adulterated butter. Salt is always present in butter, fresh butter even contain- ing from | to 2 per cent, the usual proportion being 8 grs. per ounce. Salt added for the sake of preservation need not exceed 7 per cent, so that when butter is very salt there is reason for suspecting that the extra salt has been added to conceal commencing decomposition. Butter may be preserved by covering it with water containing a 3-per-1000 solution of acetic or tartaric acid, and keeping it in a close vessel. The addition of sugar with a little salt serves the same pur- pose. Fresh butter is the most digestible form of fat, and children who cannot stomach fats as a rule may obtain their necessary quantity of this principle more simply and agreeably in this form. Like all fats it is a rich storehouse of energy, m this respect giving fully double the amount of heat got from the same amount of carbohydrates or proteids. While good butter is good, bad butter is decidedly bad, and any good