THE LIVER AND BILE. 85 within t hemselves, where it may be seen as grains, while the bile is drained oft' to the outside of the lobule by a. series of excessively fine vessels, the bile capillaries, only ^strsiy inch m diameter. Thus in the connective tissue which bounds each lobule there run side by side the portal vein and hepatic artery, conveying blood to the liver, and the hepatic vein and bile-duct, carrying material from the liver. Excess of alcohol induces excessive growth of this connective tissue at the ex- pense of the liver-cells, constituting "gin-drinker's liver". This, then, is the portal system, and it will be seen that its peculiarity consists in this, that the blood passes through two sets of capillary vessels, as showm in the diagram. Hence the blood from the liver, having undergone the greatest amount of chemical change, is the warmest blood in the body. The functions of the liver may be conveniently considered under the two heads of manufacture of bile and of glycogen, though in addition to these it decomposes red corpuscles of the blood-forming urea, and exercises an arrestive action on certain poisons, especially ptomaines, poisons arising from decompos- ing food or other organic matter. Bile is a transparent liquid, having a faint smell like musk, is yellowish-brown to dark-green in colour, and intensely bitter. Unlike other digestive juices, it is always being secreted, though chiefly in the daytime, attaining two maxima, 3-5 and 13-15 hours respectively after a meal. When not required for diges- tion it passes into the gall-bladder, as the usual exit into the bowel is closed; but when food is taken, the increased flow of bile overcomes the resistance here, and the whole is poured into the bowel. That bile is in one sense a waste product is shown by that fact that it is formed before birth, constituting the " meconium " which occupies the bowels. Of its solids, 13-7 per cent of the whole, the most important are the bile salts, combinations of soda, and. the colouring matters bilirubin and biliverdin which give to bile its bronze or green colour. These are formed from the colouring matter heart from- jsA Hepatic \evro > heart Fig. 20.