FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 106 Inspired. Expired. Nitrogen 79-02 ... 79-02 + Oxygen 20-94 ... 16-158, loss 4782 per cent. Carbonic acid ... -04 ... 4-42, gain 4"38 per cent. Water variable ... saturated. Temperature ... variable ... warmer, 36-3°C, almost blood-heat. Expired air always contains small quantities of organic matter from the lungs, and it is this putrescible matter which causes the offensive " smell of human beings " observed in ill- ventilated rooms, for pure carbonic acid has no odour. It w ill be observed that the increase of carbonic acid, 4-38 per cent, is not quite equal to the loss of oxygen, 4782, the rest of the oxygen being used to form water. The ratio °ar^^°1^Cld ( =I7^2 or "9)' *s ^e "respiratoi7 quotient", and is fairly con- stant, so that the amount of carbonic acid formed may be talon as an indication of the oxygen used in the lungs. Since we inhale 20 or 25 cubic inches of air at each breath, and breathe 70 times per minute, an easy calculation will give the amount of air used daily, and ± of this may be set down as oxygen, giving 18 cubic feet of oxygen used, or the air of a cubical room 7 feet each way. The carbonic acid given off represents nearly half a pound of solid carbon burnt in the tissues, and the water lost by the breath is 9 fl. ozs., or nearly half a pint. As compared with the skin, the loss of carbonic acid is much greater by the lungs, but the loss of water not nearly so great, the total loss by the skin being half as much again as that by the lungs. Since the air inhaled at a breath, the "tidal" air, is only about one-eighth of that already in the lungs, the part played by diffusion in exchanging gases between the lungs and the blood must be very small, and this brings into prominence the two other factors in respiration, chemical action and the vital activity of the living tissues concerned. The oxygen of the air in the lungs is less in proportion than that of the atmo- sphere, and the proportion diminishes as air gets deeper into the lung; still, the oxygen of the air-cells is greater in propor- tion than that of the blood, and that again greater than in the tissues. There is thus from outside air to tissue a descending scale of oxygen, but an ascending scale of carbonic acid, thus:— Oxygen of air > lungs > blood > tissues. Carbonic acid of tissues > blood > lungs > air.