FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 262 carrots are best left alone; on the other hand, olive-oil has a remarkable influence in checking such formations. In catarrhal jaundice the diet resembles that for fevers, at first warm milk and water, alkalinizcd as before, then peptonized gruel, pep- tonized cocoa and milk, or thin arrowroot, milk soups flavoured with Spanish onion or celery, and beef-tea thickened with sago or tapioca. At all meals warm alkaline drinks should be taken. Acute Rheumatism, or Rheumatic Fever, is a constitutional disease characterized by excess of lactic acid in the blood, and while the pain in the joints calls for external appliances, the acid state of the blood indicates the use of an alkaline diet, while the great loss of water by perspiration demands a liberal allowance of liquids. The diet should thus be very fluid, easily absorbed and cooling, so as to reduce fever. Milk diluted with its own bulk of boiling water, alkalinized by the addition of 30 to 40 gi's. of baking-soda and 10 to 20 grs. of common salt to the jug, then cooled by ice, will supply nutriment enough, and in this way 3 or 4 pints of milk may be taken in the 24 hours. If milk disagrees, whey may be used, and in any case a jug of home-made lemonade should be standing near, to be taken by the patient between his draught of milk. Wben the fever is subsiding the milk may be supplemented by barley- water, oatmeal jelly, or well-strained gruel, followed, as con- valescence proceeds, by light clear soups, thickened by stale- bread crumbs and farinaceous matters, then chicken and beef pounded and minced rather than as strong exti-acts, also bread and milk and other light farinaceous puddings. Alcohol must be entirely avoided, both in the acute and clrronic disorders; the best drink is home-made lemonade, with the addition of 20 to 30 grs. of bicarbonate of potash to the jug. In Chronic Rheumatism the dietary has a wider range, but must be light and easily digested, the object being to promote normal metabolism, and the state of the urine as to deposits will afford a good in- dication of this. Animal food is restricted with advantage as tending to render the blood acid, but it may include white fish, game, poultry, and tender meat Vegetables may be freely used—especially stewed celery and Spanish onion, which are almost popular specifics for rheumatism—lettuces, water- cresses, and fruits, along with farinaceous foods, while the necessary fat is obtainable from milk, cream, and butter. As in rheumatic fever, the best beverage is lemon-juice, which may be pleasantly combined with soda or potash water, or the orange, lemon, &c, may be eaten fresh.