48 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. besides, if it is clean, as it should be, it aids in sterilizing our wounds. A riotous stomach will nearly always gratefully receive a glass or more of hot water. Of the total quantity of water consumed, 70 to 90 ounces, from 50 to 80 ounces are taken in the liquid form, leaving the rest to be obtained from the various food-stuffs. Ordinary food contains fully half its own weight of water, and some vegetables and fruits contain upAvards of 90 per cent, as will be seen by referring to the tables on pp. 189, 251. Water best performs its digestive functions when pure, and its solvent powers are greatly increased by heating. Ordinary drinking-water contains in solution many substances, both solids and gases, and when these substances are present in such quantity as sensibly to affect the taste, colour, or smell of the water, it is often called a mineral water. Thus many waters contain iron, sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic acid, salts of magnesia, potash, soda, and so on, and these are greatly used medicinally; they will be discussed in detail under the head, " Mineral Waters ". The most important mineral substance in water is lime, and when lime or magnesia is present the result is "hard water". Lime itself is insoluble in water, but is converted into slaked lime or hydrated lime, which dissolves in a lot of water, forming lime-water, which may be used to illustrate experimentally the properties of hard waters. If a little soap solution be shaken up with some soft water or dis- tilled water, a soft lather is produced which lasts for half an hour or so. Now add some lime-water to ordinary water till there is no taste, and shake it up with a little soap solution; a froth is formed, which soon subsides, leaving a dirty-white curdy mass suspended in the water. This is Clarke's soap test for hard water, and is explained as follows. As seen in lesson 6, soap is sodium stearate, and when shaken up with a lime salt, the soda of the soap is replaced by lime, forming calcium or lime stearate, while the soda remains in the water. Of course a hard water may be softened in this way, as by adding plenty of soap all the lime would be removed; but this is a most expensive method, and in most cases the same result can be attained by simpler means. Now breathe through a tube into your lime-water ; it turns milky, owing to the formation by the carbonic acid in the breath of carbonate of lime or chalk, insoluble in water. If a stream of carbonic acid gas be allowed to bubble through the lime-water for a few minutes, the milkiness increases in density