254 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. are very likely to drift into rickets before the end of the first year ". Farinaceous foods are best withheld till about the 8th month, and even then should be self-digestive, consisting of malted starch and dextrin, and should be used along with milk. The delusive nature of arrowroot is shown by the fact that its proteids are only ^ of its carbohydrates, and those last are pure starch, indigestible by an infant, while in human milk the proportion is i and the carbohydrate is in the form of milk-sugar. Dr. Starr has drawn up elaborate directions for infant-feeding, but the personal equa- tion bulks very largely, and it is a safe rule to be guided by the thriving of the child itself. Adolescence is the period characterized by growth of all the organs, especially the muscles, and it is the period devoted to mental training in schools. To meet these bodily demands the diet must be such as to admit of rapid digestion and assimilation, while liberal enough to be of all-round utility. Children of school age detest fats, and the necessary heating matters may be given as butter or as suet in puddings, while treacle, syrup, and the multitudinous jams supply a copious store of carbohydrates. Adult life, marked by complete bodily development, occurs at or before 25, though in females it may be 8 years earlier. The body, however, continues to increase in weight unless proper exercise is taken, and when this is coupled with over- feeding, which is generally the case, biliousness sets in, and at a later stage corpulence, indicating the storage of unused material, while a foundation is laid for disease of retrograde metabolism such as liver disorders, gout, and rheumatism. The cure for these tendencies is plainer living coupled with more exercise, while the diet may be modified so as to present light foods with a small amount of butcher-meat, and fruit or vegetables to keep the blood in proper condition and prevent constipation. In Food ami Feeding Sir Henry Thompson classes the various systems of meals under three divisions: 1st. The Continental system of two meals a day, dejeuner a la fourchette from 11 to 1, followed by dinner, 6 to 7, after the day's work is over. The only thing taken as breakfast is a roll and butter with cafe au lait or chocolate, and as the professional classes begin work much earlier than with us, the dejeuner or lunch comes in after about 3 or 3£ hours' work. The quantity of food