218 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. fermented like black tea this unpleasant flavour is removed, and there is developed instead the peculiar aroma of cocoa, due to an aromatic oil. The crushed beans form the " nibs " of com- merce, and when rolled they form " flake cocoa ". As will be seen from the following analysis by Kbnig, cocoa differs widely from tea and coffee:— Water, Nitrogenous, Fat, , Ularch, Other non-nitrogenous, . Cellulose, &c, Ash, Theobromine, 325 per cent. 1476 „ 49-00 13-31 12-35 3-68 3-65 16 The striking feature of this analysis is the large amount of fat, constituting half the total weight. This fat is called cacao- butter, and consists chiefly of cacao-stearin with a little olein; it has the property of not becoming rancid however long it is kept, but the presence of other fats impairs this. About one- fifth of the total proteid matter is indigestible, so that cocoa depends for its food-value upon its fat and starch, since the amount of theobromine is small and its action as a stimulant slight. When taken in excess theobromine appears in the urine. Cocoa thus ranks as a food-stuff of no mean order, and this is the more important since by most methods of its pre- paration the solid cocoa is consumed, not left behind like tea- leaves and coffee-grounds. Cocoa is rendered " soluble " by removal of the woody fibre and other insoluble matters, but in this, as in all commercial cocoas, there is a large addition of sugar and starch. To a certain extent this preparation—it can hardly be called adulteration—is defensible, for so large a proportion of fat is too much for most digestions, while the addition of sugar further obscures the bitter taste found in Caraccas cocoa owing to the fermentation process. Either by direct removal or by making up with starch and sugar, the proportion of fat is reduced by at least one-half, the minimum S. P. A. standard being 20 per cent. The following comparison of commercial cocoas will give a good idea of the various methods of preparation:— Epp's cocoa = cocoa 40%, sugar 44, starch 16. Granulated cocoa = cocoa-nibs + arrowroot + sugar. Homoeopathic cocoa = cocoa-nibs + arrowroot. Maraville cocoa = cocoa + much sugar + sago flour. Cocoatine — pure cocoa, less 60 to 70% of fat.