BLACKIE and son's science catalogue. NEW BOOKS AND EDITIONS-Continued. SEXTON'S CHEMISTRY. Elementary Inorganic Chemistry. By Professor A. Humboldt Sex- ton. Complete New Edition adapted for the 1895-96 Syllabus. [In rapid preparation, 2s. Gd. HORWILL'S QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS. A Course of Qualitative Chemical Analysis,—Inorganic and Or- ganic (Elementary and Advanced). By Edgar E. Horwill. Adapted to meet the 1895-96 Syllabus, 2s. THE SCIENCE AND ART OF THE DAIRY. Translated from the German of Professor W. Fleischman, by C. M. Aikman, m a, d.Sc, and K. P. Wright, Professor of Agriculture, Glasgow and West of Scotland Technical College. Fully Illustrated. Demy 8vo. [In preparation. THE NATURAL HISTORY OF PLANTS: Their Forms, Growth, Reproduction and Distribution. From the German of Anton Kerner von Marilaun, Professor of Botany in the University of Vienna. Translated by F. W. Oliver, m.a., d.Sc, Quain Professor of Botany in University College, London, with assist- ance of Marian Busk, b.sc, and Mary Ewart, b.sc With about 2000 original Woodcut Illustrations and Sixteen Plates in Colours. In two volumes, cloth, imperial 8vo, gilt top, 50s. net; or half- morocco, gilt edges, 63s. net; also in four half-volumes, 50s. net. "The best account of the vegetable kingdom for general readers which has vet been produced. . . . The translation is scientifically accurate, as well as entertaining and instructive. Lovers of nature will find every page of the book interesting, and the serious student of botany will derive great advantage from its perusal. The illustrations are beautiful, and what is more necessary true to nature." —Nature. "The publication of the first part of the first English edition of Professor Reiner's PJlanzenleben is an event of considerable importance to the many English readers to whom the German original may be inaccessible. Professor Kernel 's work is deservedly held in high repute as a scientific treatise on the life-history of plants, their forms, growth, reproduction, and distribution ; and it is certain that the handsome English form of the PJlanzenleben, which faithfully reproduces the text and extremely instructive and beautiful illustrations of the original, should be widely read both by students of botany and general reader."— Saturday Review.