197 FRUITS. acid being about 3 :1, so that they have to be eaten with sugar. They are chiefly used for tarts and preserves, or to furnish fruit syrups for aerated water. In sweet gooseberries the ratio of sugar to acid may be 6 : 1, in other varieties 4 :1. Yellow gooseberries contain more soluble matters than red; when eaten freely they repel indigestion. Whortleberries include the bilberry, the Scottish blaeberry, the red whortleberry, often falsely called the cranberry, and the black whortleberry or huckleberry. Like the true cranberry, they are all intensely acid, and are used in tarts or made into wines. The bog whortleberry causes giddiness when eaten in excess. The barberry, when fully ripe, is quite sweet, and makes excellent jelly; when unripe and very acid it is used for tarts. It con- tains malic acid. Fleshy Fruits: Strawberry. — Popular estimation of the strawberry is reflected in the saying, "Doubtless God could have made a better berry than the strawberry, but doubtless He never did ". Says one enthusiast, and that too in a leading article:—"Its virtues are legion, and it has not a single defect. The gooseberry, like the rose, must be plucked from among thorns; the raspberry soon brings a warning sense of satiety; you may crush your teeth upon a grape-stone; and the biggest and sweetest apple has a core. But the strawberry is one unalloyed and unimpaired mouthful of deliciousness; it has neither rind nor stone to mar the perfect pleasure of the palate, and it is so healthful that you can eat it till you are tired. It is native, too, so that in swallowing it one may feel a virtuous glow of patriotism, such as no exotic delicacy can give, while its uses are almost as manifold as they are delight- ful. It is good when plucked fresh in the garden, better still when its rich red shows through the whiteness of cream and sugar, and when it is preserved there is, as Hood would have said, ' no satis to its jam'. Last, but not least of all, it is the earliest of our fruits, for Nature in its production seems to have imitated the host in the parable who brought forth his best wine at the beginning of the feast. The first strawberry, and not the first swallow, is the real and indubitable sign of summer, for when your tongue has touched it there rises the consciousness that in its essence is the whole spirit of June and July. A summer without strawberries would be worse than a Christmas without plum-pudcling and mistletoe, but, fortunately, nothing so unseasonable is ever the doom of man in these latitudes. The sunshine may fail, but the strawberry