150 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. substances rich in nitrogenous matter, such as eggs, peas, beans. Bacon is very nutritious, bulk for bulk, since it con- tains but little water; its use in times of extra exertion has been already mentioned in connection with the German army. The various cuts of pork are shown in the diagram on p. 149. The Tongue of animals, especially the ox, sheep, and pig, is eaten both fresh and pickled. It is very tender, but contains much fat, especially at the base, the fat being firm and hard like that of mutton. The varieties of flesh already mentioned have all been of the nature of voluntary or ordinary muscular tissue, but there are also used for food organs consisting chiefly of involuntary or unstriped muscle. Heart occupies an intermediate position, and its fibres, though not under the control of the will, resemble the ordinary striped variety. As is to be expected from the nature of its functions, heart-muscle is very close and firm in texture, and therefore not so easy of digestion. Sheep's and lambs' hearts are tender enough, especially if boiled, but bullocks' hearts are generally stuffed with vegetables, so as to make them more juicy and agreeable to the palate._ As an example of pure involuntary muscle, Tripe may be taken. This is the paunch of the ox, sheep, or other ruminant animal, and the mucous lining is scraped off, leaving the con- nective tissue, fat, and involuntary muscle. The latter is very easy of digestion, and the large proportion of fat in it makes tripe altogether one of the most nutritive diets, and specially suitable for invalids. It is best prepared as a soup, and if found too heavy, some of the fat may be removed by skimming. The average composition of tripe is as follows:—Water, 68; proteids, 13"2; fat, 16-4; salts, 2-4. Another part of the digestiv e system which vies with tripe in digestibility, lying on the stomach for only an hour, and specially suitable for invalids, is the Pancreas or Sweetbread. Its readiness of digestion is doubtless partly due to the diges- tive ferments contained within the gland, so that it is practically self-digesting. The sweetbread of the throat is the Thymus gland, which in the adult human being is represented by a mass of fatty tissue lying at the base of the heart. The Liver is also largely used, especially that of the calf, sheep, lamb, and pig, and to a less extent of the ox. It is difficult to digest, owing to its close texture and rich composi- tion From what has been said about the functions of the