175 ROOTS AND TUBERS. small, and the rest of the solids is made up of sugar, pectin or vegetable jelly, and the vegetable acids. The composition of the potato is given in the following analyses:— No. 1, Water, ... Starch, ... Fibre, Gum, dextrin, sugar, &c, ... Proteids,... 71—80 15—20 3-7 3—4 2 No. 2. Water, Starch, Fat, Cellulose, Proteids, Ash, 75-77 20-56 0-16 0- 75 1- 79 0-97 As these show, 95 per cent of the potato consists of water and starch. The nitrogenous matter is very slight, and even of that fully the half consists of asparagin and amido-acids of no nutritive value. The Irishman who attempts to nourish himself upon potatoes has to assimilate 10 or 11 lbs. daily, while with a mixed diet of flesh, eggs, and bread, from 2 to 3 lbs. suffice; and 100 parts of wheaten flour or 107 of wheat itself are equivalent to 613 of potatoes. Since the potato is so poor in nitrogenous materials, it cannot be used alone to support life, and its deficiencies in this respect are supplied by substances rich in proteids and fat. Thus it is mashed with butter and served with milk, taken with meat, bacon, and fish, especially oily fish, cooked with butter in various ways, the pommes frites and pommes sautees of the French, or it is taken with butter-milk. Potato juice is acid, containing citric acid combined with potash, soda,.and lime, and it has thus a high value as an antiscorbutic, this quality being due not so much to the potash, as to the citric and succinic acids present in small quantities along with oxalic acid. The water in which potatoes have been boiled is not wholesome, and cannot be used for stock; young potatoes especially are great offenders in this respect, and it is necessary to steep them in water first to remove as much as possible of the acrid "green" juice before boiling. Severe diarrhoea has been caused by indiscriminately eating new potatoes containing unformed starch and immature cell-tissue. The value of the potato as a food-stuff lies in its starch, and it is from potatoes that starch is generally obtained by macera- tion with water. It is calculated that in this respect more food can be got per acre from potatoes than from any other British food-plant. Potatoes are never eaten raw, but roasted or boiled; the latter process removes the narcotico-irritant poison sometimes present. On boiling, the small quantity of albumen