155 FISH. Fish may be classified as white or oily, according as their fat is confined to the liver or distributed throughout the body. Under the former head will be comprised whiting, sole, turbot, brill, cod, haddock, plaice, flounder, dab, &c.; while oil fishes include the salmon, a "red" fish, the eel, pilchard, sprat, sardine, herring, and mackerel. The composition of a few representative fish is shown in the following table (Parkes):— Salmon. Herring. Sole. Mackerel. Eel. White Fish. Water, Proteids, ... Pat, 77-00 16-10 5-50 80-71 10-11 7-11 86-14 11-94 0-25 68-70 23-50 6-76 75-00 9-90 13-80 78-00 18-10 2-90 Among white fish the Whiting is the chicken of the sea, very light, easily digested, and when fresh possessing a delicate flavour. The Cod is very subject to parasites, and its use was prohibited to the Jews. It varies very much in quality, being sometimes hard and tough; when it is at its best there will be found between the flakes of flesh coagulated albumen on boiling. Haddocks are offered both fresh and in various stages of preser- vation, Finnan or Eyemouth, Bervies, Aberdeens, and " close fish". The Turbot is richer than the sole, and has a finer flavour. It is firmer in texture, and improves by being kept a short time. Brill resembles turbot, but the flavour is inferior. Among oily fish Salmon, the only red fish, is rich in fat, which is most abundant in the belly. Its flesh is too rich for most people on accout of the oil in it, and requires a corrective in the way of vinegar or other acid sauces. The most nourish- ing of oily fishes is the Eel, which is exceptionally rich in fat, the proportion of this being about double that of the proteids. Although oily, it possesses the advantage of being readily digestible as well as delicate in flavour, and it has always been a favourite invalid dish. Like cod and shell-fish, it was pro- hibited by the Mosaic law. Mackerel readily taints, and must therefore be cooked very fresh. There are two seasons for catching mackerel, in spring and in autumn; the former furnishes the larger catch, but the autumn fish are finer. Of all the oily fishes the Herring takes the first place in point of commercial importance. On account of its large amount of fat it is either boiled or fried with oatmeal, and eaten with potatoes or similar carbohydrate material. Choice fresh Loch-