FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. L64 and the whole process of bread-making aims at converting the dough into a porous mass. Dough is prepared by kneading to- gether the necessary quantities of flour and warm water, flour 20 lbs., water 8-12 lbs. or 6£ to 9£ pints, and from 1£ to 2 ozs. of salt. The porosity of bread, which distinguishes it from biscuit, is obtained by the disengagement within the mass of carbonic acid gas according to one of three methods. First, by fermentation. The dough is divided in the pro- portion of 2:1 and the salt added to the larger portion. To the other is added the ferment, consisting of yeast and mashed potatoes, or a "leaven" of dough already ferment- ing, and the whole is allowed to stand in a warm place to encourage fermentation. When carbonic acid has been pro- duced in sufficient quantity to make the mass spongy, it is kneaded up with the larger portion and again set aside till the whole mass is leavened. Before the spongy mass begins to sink again it is made into loaves and fired in ovens heated on the German principle, i.e. by wood fires kindled inside them and swept out at the proper time; in factories the ovens are either heated by hot pipes or are revolving. By this fermentation several changes take place, both mechanical and chemical. If the fermentation has been incomplete the bread is " sad " or heavy, and if carried too far the yeast fer- mentation is apt to be succeeded by others, such as the lactic fermentation, and this is especially likely to occur if "leaven " be used instead of yeast. The processes are briefly these:— Starch becomes partly changed into dextrin and sugar, and this latter is again partly decomposed into alcohol and carbonic acid. The alcohol seems to be entirely driven off by the heat of the oven, and from the same cause the bread loses water, so that 6^ lbs. of dough give only 6 lbs. of bread. The crust is much cai-amelized, and contains only 16-27 per cent of water, since it has been exposed to almost boiling heat, 180°F., while the crumb, rarely heated above 38°, contains 20-47 per cent of water. The more water new bread contains the more likely is it to turn mouldy, and of course the less nutritious it is, weight for weight. When bread becomes stale it loses Avater, but if stale bread be reheated it becomes soft again, not, of course, to the acquisition of more water, but owing to molecular changes in the solid constituents. Since some of the starch becomes sugar, bread always contains more sugar than was baked with it,°and the soluble carbohydrates, sugar and dextrin, are thus always in greater proportion than in the original flour. A