153 FISH. tions of the skin and to predispose to leprosy. Fish is not so satisfying or so stimulating as animal flesh in general; it is readily digestible, and therefore very suitable for persons of feeble digestion, with whom the golden rule at meals should be "small and often". On account of the large amount of phosphorus contained in fish, it has been vaunted as a brain food, but this is simply owing to the fact that since fish is so easy of digestion, it is admirably suited to persons of sedentary habits. It is said to produce aphrodisiac effects. Fish are at their best just before spawning, when they are said to be in season; after that they become poor and flabby. Immature fish are, of course, always in season. By the Freshwater Fisheries Act of 1878 a close time exists from March 15 to June 15, for all freshwater fish except eels, pollan, trout, and char. The scheme on p. 154 shows when to buy fish, a black line showing when fish are in season. Fresh-water fish are best when taken from deep water with a rocky or stony bottom, and it is this which gives the pre- eminence to the fish of Alpine lakes. Sea fish, also, are best when caught off rocks in currents of deep water; those caught in shallow and sheltered places are poorer in flavour. Short and thick fish are to be preferred to long narrow ones; those without scales are unwholesome and indigestible, and were prohibited under the Mosaic law. They decay readily, and cannot be cooked too fresh; the perfection of fish-cooking is obtained when the fish is transferred immediately from the water to the kettle, and, if from the sea, boiled in sea-water. Keeping in ice deteriorates their flavour. An exception must be made in favour of the cartilaginous fishes, such as ray and sturgeon, which improve by keeping, since the muscular fibres become more tender, as in game when "hung". When smoked, salted, or pickled, fish are much less digestible than when fresh, and in this state they are better avoided by dyspeptics. The best suited for smoking or otherwise pre- serving are firm oily fish, like the salmon and herring. In choosing fish, the following are the main indications of freshness:—The flesh is stiff and firm, the animal being in a state of rigour; the scales do not come off easily; and, above all, the eyes and gills are bright, while the tail is firm and not drooping. Cod, haddock, and whiting keep best; flat-fish keep better than herrings or mackerel. The most profitable and wholesome method of cooking fish is by boiling, or still better by steaming, as in boiling their