FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 274 In Braising, the meat is covered with an extract of animal and vegetable juices, instead of water, and thus becomes impregnated with their flavour. This method of stewing is thus specially adapted to foods somewhat insipid in themselves, like white flesh and poultry, and the addition to these of a few pieces of ham, bacon, or sausage, together with vegetables, is really a method of imparting sapidity by means of a sauce pre- pared at the same time and in the same dish as the food itself. Very often at the end of the process the meat is browned slightly by a top heat, still keeping the dish closed; this demands a concave lid into which red-hot cinders may be put, or it may be done by radiation before the fire or from a gas ring. A recipe for ordinary braising is given, quoted by Sir Henry Thompson from Gouffe's Livre cle Cuisine. Bceuf a la mode. Take about 4 lbs. of thick beef-steak cut square. Take nearly f lb. of fat bacon, cut off the rind, which should be put aside to blanch, i.e. plunged into boiling water for a minute or two to remove acrid matters, then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about ^ in. square, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat and tie it up, then place it in a stew-pan with rather less than a pint of white wine, a wine-glass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water, 2 calves' feet already boned and blanched, and the rind of bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire, adding a little less than 1 oz. of salt. Make it boil and skim, next add fully 1 lb. of carrots, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 1 bunch of herbs, and 2 pinches of pepper. Place the stew-pan on the corner of the stove, cover, and allow to simmer very gently for 4| hours. Try the meat with a skewer to ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked; then put it in a dish with the carrots and the calves' feet, and keep these covered up hot till serving. Next strain the gravy through a fine sieve, remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it one-quarter over the fire. Lastly, untie the beef, place it on the dish for serving, add the calves' feet, each cut in 8 pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and 10 onions glazed. Arrange the calves' feet, carrots, and onions around the beef, pour the sauce over the meat, keeping any surplus till next day. Taste, in order to ascertain if sufficiently seasoned; sometimes a clove of garlic is added. Soup-making, like stewing, proceeds upon the principle of extracting as much as possible from the materials, leaving it an open question whether that exhausted material is to be used or not. Extraction by. water is seen in its simplest form in the