FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 24 the skim-milk thus left, a solid curd is formed, which is the leading ingredient in cheese, and hence is called casein It is a nitrogenous substance, in composition not unlike white of egg and classed among albuminous or proteid foods. If the curd be removed, and the whey shaken up with alcohol, another white solid appears, which proves to be lactose or milk-sugar one of the important class of substances known as carbo' hydrates. What is left is now apparently nothing but water but on evaporating to. dryness and igniting, a small quantity' of ash is obtained. Milk thus consists of— Nitrogenous:— A proteid, viz. casein; ( a fat—butter; Non-nitrogenous:— j a carbohydrate—lactose; ( various salts; and water. Milk is thus not a simple substance, but a highly complex one consisting of five proximate principles, viz. casein, fat, lactose salts and water. Each of these proximate principles may in turn be shown to be a chemical compound, and may by suitable means be resolved into its elements; but in so doing its value as a food-stuff is entirely destroyed, since it is only as proximate principles that the digestive organs can prepare and the tissues assimilate food. As a type of proteid or albuminous food, we may take white ol egg, which is almost pure albumen and water. On heating this as in boiling or frying, the albumen is coagulated into a white. opaque mass. This change is characteristic of nearly all nroteids, and the great majority coagulate at about the same temperature—73° C. This property is utilized in the various processes of cooking meat. By subjecting a roast to a strong teat to begin with, the albuminous materials arc coagulated on the surface, forming a continuous skin about the thickness of a sixpence; the temperature is then lowered, and the process completed by actually boiling the meat in its own juice. On the other hand, when the object is to extract from meat as much proteid matter as possible, as in making soups or beef- tea, the temperature of the water is kept just below the TfnAo ^'\g point of albumen-say, 66° to 75° C. (water boils at i uo u. i. A great many proteids arc soluble in dilute solutions of sail while others are rendered insoluble by the use of a strong salt solution such as brine. Thus the salt taken with meat not only supplies the blood with soda and the stomach with the