FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 2 OS important part in the destruction of parasites and germs of disoase. The different methods of cooking employed arc boiling, steaming, stewing, and soup-making, effected by water; roast- ing, broiling, and baking, by radiant heat; frying, by hot oil or fat; but these are all reducible to two divisions, depending on whether the object in view is the extraction or retention of the juices of the food-stuff in question. Classed in this way, the several methods will appear thus— GrUHiio-^' ( ^ radiant heat and hot Baking, ) gases. Steaming, ) , , Boiling, j hot water. Frying, wet, by hot oil. Frying, dry, by hot oil and conduction. Stewing and Soup-making, Braising. Beef-tea. Roasting is cooking by the radiant heat of a fire, which for this purpose must be burning brightty, with little or no smoke, and a large glowing surface. The meat is exposed to the heat within a few inches for from 5 to 10 minutes, with the result that the surface albumen is coagulated to about the thickness of a sixpence or so. If the meat be basted with dripping pre- viously heated before the fire, this coagulation of the surface will be all the more rapid, since the boiling-point of oil is much higher than that of water. After this has been effected the meat is removed to a greater distance—and it may be as well to remember that double the distance means not half the heat but only a quarter,—and the process is continued very slowly at a greatly reduced temperature, the meat being really stewed in its own juices. If the subsequent heat be too great the surface skin cracks, allowing these juices to escape, and to prevent this the meat is basted with hot oil, which not only prevents cracking and even charring of the surface, but im- parts brownness of colour and delicacy of flavour owing to the development of odorous appetizing substances. Roasting thus combines cooking by radiant heat with the advantages of the oil-bath, as in continental frying. Although the surface heat is very great, much above 100° C, the boiling-point of water, the heat in the interior of the joint may not be much above the coagulating point of albumen, 73° C, and any rise above that is to be deprecated, since continued heat renders albu- minous matters hard and horny. The ordinary time given for roasting is \ hour per pound weight for beef, mutton, and