FRUITS. 195 high-class food-stuff, containing as they do 58 per cent of sugar and kindred substances. The fruit is eaten fresh or dried, and in the latter state it is made into flour. Solid masses of pounded dates are a familiar sight at every fruiterer's, and this is the regular storage form of food for the African caravans. Date stones are roasted and used to adulterate coffee, and an oil is also expressed from them when ground, the refuse being used for feeding cattle. Palm-wine is made by fermentation from the sap of the date-palm. The toddy- palm is generally regarded as the wild date; from its sap by boiling jaggery or date-sugar is obtained in the form of a syrup, 4 lbs. of syrup yielding 1 lb. of sugar. If this liquid be fermented, it forms palm-wine in the ordinary way and arrack by distillation. The Olive is another stone fruit, much used in the south of Europe and the East, but little known here except for its oil. Pickled olives act as appetizers; the fruits are gathered before being quite ripe, and are steeped in lime-water to remove their disagreeable taste, then pickled in various ways. The taste for pickled olives is decidedly an acquired one. Olive-oil occupies the first place among vegetable oils. It never gets rancid, does not dry, nor does it freeze at ordinary temperatures; is quite tasteless, and might be more largely used than it is in this country to the exclusion of cod-liver oil. At present it is only used for salad dressing. The oil is obtained from the lime-seed olive by pressure, the seeds yield- ing 58 per cent of olive-oil. It tends to become cloudy upon long exposure to light, as in a shop window, and is best kept in the dark. As a household liniment hot olive-oil has no rival. Cotton-seed oil is now largely used as an adulterant, or even as a substitute, for olive-oil, and so excessively difficult is it to detect, that the Italian government have offered a prize for the best method of doing so. Grapes.—The composition of the grape is as follows:— Water, 78"17 per cent. Non-nitrogenous Sugar, 14-36 „ extractives, ... 1-96 per cent. Free acid, ... 0-79 ,, Stones and cellulose, 3*60 ,, Proteids, 0-59 „ Ash 053 „ With the exception of dates, grapes exceed all other fruits in amount of sugar, which is never below 12 per cent, and may be as high as 26 per cent. The ratio of sugar to acid in very good grapes is 29: 1, and in ordinary seasons 16 :1; in