222 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. When the proportion of water is such that the mixture at ordinary temperatures has of the weight of an equal bulk of pure water, it is called "proof spirit", and spirits weaker or stronger than this are called under or over proof. A spirit 30 U.P. means 30 of water+ 70 of proof spirit; 20 U.P. means 20 of water+ 80 of proof spirit; whereas 25 O.P. means that 25 parts of water require to be added to reduce this spirit to proof strength. Proof spirit is, roughly, half and half of alcohol and water, the exact proportions by weight at 10°C. being, alcohol 49-24, water 50-76. A mixture of proof-strength* should just manage to ignite gunpowder if kindled. Since the boiling-point of alcohol is so much below that of water, it may be separated from its solution in the latter by distillation; this gives Rectified Spirit, containing about 80 per cent of alcohol, and when rectified spirit is further distilled, first over dry lime and then over sodium, substances which readily abstract water, the result is absolute alcohol, 100 per cent, though, as bought at a chemist's, it rarely contains over 95. Pure alcohol thus obtained has a burning taste and a spirituous odour; it reddens the skin and tongue, hardens animal tissue, and so arrests decay; hence zoological specimens are often preserved in alcohol. Its effects upon albumen may be seen by breaking an egg into spirits of wine; the albumen is coagulated, and in a few minutes converted into a cheesy indigestible mass. Methylated spirit is spirits of wine mixed with 10 per cent of methyl alcohol or wood-spirit, a red mixture which does not impair its usefulness in the manufacture of varnishes and polish, while rendering its taste sufficiently nauseous to prevent its consumption as a beverage. Of recent years, and to check increasing illicit consumption, the taste has been still further modified by the addition of mineral oil. Amyl alcohol, or fusel-oil, is heavier than the other two, and has a much higher boiling-point (130°). On this account it is the last product of distillation, and it is formed when spirit is made from grain or potatoes instead of malt. The effect of amyl alcohol is produced when 3 grains are taken, so that anything like 1J grains of this to the ounce would con- demn a whisky as injurious on this ground alone. As a rule, it may be said that the poisonous properties of alcohols increase with their weight. There are two processes for making alcohol, distillation and brewing, but in both cases the starting-point is starch. Some -