5 BLAOKIE AND SON'S SCIENCE CATALOGUE. SCIENCE TEXT-BOOKS. Advanced Series—Conid. " In Mr Robert Gunn's Arithmetic of Magnetism and Electricity the student is provided with an easy and intelligent means of solving the arithmetical questions contained in the examination papers in the advanced stage of the Science and Art Department. There are examples for illustration, and exercises (with answers). It is by far the most useful book of the kind we know."—National O bss rvcr "A small text-book treated quantitatively, with numerous arithmetical ex; amples. It appears to be very accurate."—Athenaeum. An Elementary Text-Book of Physiology {Elementary and Advanced). By J. M'Geegoe-Robeetson, m.a., m.b., Lecturer in Physiology, Queen Margaret College. F'cap 8vo, cloth, 4s. "A good system of arrangement and clear expressive exposition distinguish this book. Definitions of terms are remarkably lucid and exact."—Saturday Review. "All who wish to acquire anything short of a professional acquaintance with physiology will, we are sure, find all they need set forth here in a very interesting and attractive way. Difference in type is skilfully used to distinguish the ele- mentary from the more abstruse sections, and copious and well-executed illustra- tions aptly elucidate the text."—Glasgow Herald. " It is written with a fulness of knowledge, and illustrated with a copiousness of illustration, that make it almost a medical text-hook. For any purpose, short of professional knowledge, it is an adequate manual. For its special purposes it is admirably adapted."—Educational News. " That the book really is a readable one there can be no doubt, and for style and general accuracy it is very satisfactory . . . the author is to be congratulated, and especially so upon his treatment of certain leading topics."—Nature. " A clear, well illustrated, and sound introduction to this science."—University Correspondent. "Dr. Robertson writes physiology for beginners, hut he writes as one who knows the latest on the subject, and is all the more intelligible for such know- ledge. The text is admirably clear, and it is profusely illustrated with woodcuts, which are well executed."—The Lancet. The Student's Introductory Text-Book of Systematic Botany. By J. W. Oliver, Lecturer in Botany at the Birmingham Municipal Technical School. Crown 8vo, cloth, 4s. 6d. " This little book fulfils in a very excellent manner the main requirements of a student's text-book. It contains in a condensed yet clear form the cardinal facts of vegetable morphology, set forth in logical order and lucid style. The author has wisely chosen the natural and sensible method of commencing with the lowest forms of vegetable life, and tracing the gradual evolution of the plant upwards to its most complicated forms, and he has further given excellent descriptions of readily accessible types, so that the student will easily be able to verify for him- self all the more important statements. The book is, moreover, copiously and well illustrated. . . . For the student for whom it is written it is calculated to be of great service, and we can most cordially recommend it."—Oxford Magazine. " Mr. Oliver evidently intends that his book should supply the needs of students working for the advanced certificate of botany. He has certainly sup- plied abundance of matter—nearly four hundred pages closely printed—and we think that he has adopted the right method of treatment, namely, that of ascend- ing from the simplest to the most complicated vegetable organisms. The histology of plants has received careful attention, and the illustrations relating thereto are very presentable. Mr. Oliver has not spared himself in preparing the index, which is exceptionally full and judiciously arranged."—Science and Art. "The author's long and successful experience as a teacher has enabled him to judge with accuracy as to what is most needed, and in the selection of the matter, as well as in its arrangement, he has provided the student with a work which lio