20 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Thus, if coal-dust bo heated in a test-tube, coal-gas is formed on a small scale, tarry vapours are given off, and also ammonia, which may be recognized by its pungent smell. A tuft of hair or a bunch of feathers when burnt will give similar results, hence burnt feathers are popularly used as a stimulant in cases of fainting. The gardener utilizes this property of decaying organic matter in the preparation of hot-beds from dung and vegetable debris. Smelling-salts, or sal-volatile, consist of carbonate of ammonia, and part with their ammonia very freely. If a nitrogenous substance be warmed with quick- lime or caustic soda, ammonia gas comes off very readily, and in this way the presence of nitrogen may be demonstrated in meat, cheese, and other animal foods. This gas is formed during the decomposition of animal matter, and represents the final product of nitrogenous waste, but in the body that waste is removed in the form of urea, a solid substance rather more complex than ammonia. Outside the body urea decom- poses, forming ammonia, carbon dioxide, and water. The properties of the gas may be examined in the ordinary solution. If some litmus be reddened by the addition of an acid, and a little ammonia be added, the blue colour is restored. On adding more acid the litmus is again reddened, showing that ammonia and acids counteract each other. The solution has a soapy feel and taste, whereas acids are sour. Substances of this kind are called Alkalies, and ammonia ranks with potash, soda, and lime as one of the most powerful alkalies. Any alkali will neutralize an acid if added in sufficient quantity, so that alkalies are administered in cases of acid poisoning, and vice versa. If now some sulphuric acid be taken with a drop or two of litmus as an indicator, and ammonia solution be added cautiously, a point will be reached at which the litmus is neither red nor blue, but purple. This indicates that the acid has been neutralized, and is now neither acid nor alkaline. To discover what it is, expel the water in it by heating gently, and there will be left a white crystalline mass, an entirely new substance, ammonium sulphate. When any acid is neutralized by an alkali, heat is liberated, as in all direct chemical action, and there is formed a salt, generally a solid substance, and not necessarily salt to taste. The other important nitrogen compound is nitric acid, or aqua fortis. It shows all the properties of an acid, and when neutralized by any alkali forms a set of salts called nitrates. It does not play a very important part in the chemistry of