213 TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, ETC. domestic reasons a strong pot is -wanted, there can be no objec- tion to the use of enamelled steel, taking care that the enamel inside is not chipped or otherwise impaired. The physiological effects of tea comprise its general action on the nervous system, and, locally, its inhibitory effect upon the salivary and other diastatic secretions. Dealing first with the latter, it is undoubtedly the case that tea retards or even arrests both the salivary and pancreatic digestion of starches, and this inhibitory effect is clue to the tannin rather than the theine, for even a 2-minutes' infusion will produce the same re- sults. Roberts recommends the addition of a little dry baking- soda, 10 grains to an ounce of tea-leaves, and this, besides softening any hard water, entirely neutralizes the above effect of tannin on the digestive juices, as well as correcting the acid dyspepsia which often accompanies the use of strong tea. A still better plan, and one calculated to give the full benefit of the theine, is to follow the example of the Chinese, and drink tea between and not at meals; the best time would be 1 to 2 hours before a meal after the heavy work and worry of the day. To get the best effect of tea the Chinese example should also be folloAved in respect of sugar and cream, since when these are added tea becomes in virtue of them a food-stuff in the proper sense. Regarded in this light, the popular " meat tea" is a physiological mistake. In the so-called "digestive" tea the tannin has been so altered by electrical treatment as no longer to precipitate gelatin or interfere with the digestion of carbohydrates. Theine, the other constituent of tea, from which it derives its stimulating properties, belongs to the group of alkaloids of which strychnine and nicotin are the other extreme. They all act on the nervous system, form crystalline salts, and behave chemically like ammonia. In ascending order of vigour they are:— 1. Acting feebly on the nervous system: Theine or Caffeine, Theobromine. 2. Acting more powerfully : Quinine. 3. Powerful stimulants, producing paralysis in larger doses: Morphia, Atropin. 4. Producing paralysis in small doses: Strychnine, Curare, Nicotin. Theine or caffeine, for the two substances are identical, along with theobromine, the special alkaloid of cocoa, acts upon the central nervous system as a gentle stimulant, it soothes the worried man, relieves him of his cares, removes his fatigue, and clears his brain. The skin is stimulated to increased