DIET AND AGE. 255 taken is less than in England, but more attention is paid to cookery. 2nd. The middle-class English or Provincial^system, best suited for children and young growing people with good digestions, has four meals a day—breakfast at 8 a.m.; dinner at 1, in Germany at 12.30; a heavy tea, the great defect in the system, 5 to 6; and supper about 8 or 9, in Germany 7.30 or 8; while there should bean interval of 2 or 3 hours be- tween supper and bed. 3rd. The London or professional system comprises breakfast, lunch, and dinner, the last, as in France, after the day's work. As a refreshment in the long interval between lunch and dinner, tea comes in at 5 o'clock, best taken simply as a refreshment. With dinner after 6 o'clock, or for suburban residents after 7, lunch at 1 requires to be ample for supporting the bodily powers, and yet not heavy, otherwise the afternoon's work will suffer, or may react upon digestion, laying up an account for dyspepsia. The period of decline is characterized by several organic changes; the muscles lose their tone, and this occurs not simply in the voluntary muscles but in the coats of the intestines, so that the latter are more subject to dilation, flatulence, and constipation. This want of tone affects also the blood-vessels and the circulation generally, varicose veins are common, and absorption is delayed because of retarded circulation; while the digestive system becomes weaker, and the mental powers share in the decreasing debility. The disappearance of the teeth indicates a change in the character of the food taken, and in this way the dentist's aid may not be an unmixed blessing, since the stomach can no longer endure the strong foods of former days. For healthy age the body should resemble that of a healthy schoolboy, lean and spare, with just so much fat as keep out the cold, and the diet should also approximate to the same standard, fats and rich foods being reduced in quantity, animal foods strictly cut down to their proper proportion, | or less, and the meals small and often. If the decline of energy is not thus accom- panied by a corresponding diminution of the demands upon it in the form of digestive activity, the result is certain to be accumulation of fat and retarded or even retrograde meta- bolism, producing gout and rheumatism. In advancing age the diet more and more approaches that of youth, and in second childhood a return is made to the bread-and-milk diet and short intervals of early days.