30 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. is the dissolved meat of Dr. Leube, and, as it is not patented, directions for making it are given. 1000 grammes (or any other weight) of beef, free from fat or bone, are chopped fine and put into an earthenware or porcelain jar, with their own weight of water and 2 per cent of pure hydrochloric acid. ±ne jar is then placed in a Papin's digester, fast closed, and digested for 12 to 15 hours; during the earlier part of the time the apparatus is occasionally opened and its contents stirred. The mass is then taken out of the jar, and rubbed or beaten in a mortar to the consistence of a paste, returned to the digester, and kept heated under pressure for 15 to 20 hours It is now taken out, neutralized with carbonate of soda, thus forming common salt, moistened with water to form a fluid like gruel, and divided into four rations, which arc given to the patients either pure or with crushed biscuit and milk. It makes an excellent soup. AVith regard to the physiology of proteids, this much is obvious, that since all active tissues contain nitrogen, the materials for their upkeep must be nitrogenous also. Since the muscles are the most active organs of the body, and constitute nearly half its weight, proteids used to be called "flesh-formers". In the body, however, albumen occurs not only in the solid tissues, but in the blood and other vehicles of nutriment, and this tissue, or "fixed" or organic albumen, is very little affected in the daily exchange of products, only'to the extent of 1 per cent or so, while the albumen of the nutri- tive fluids, hence called circulating albumen, is decomposed much more readily, to the extent of about 70 per cent in the twenty-four hours. Certain diseases disturb the normal balance of organic and circulating albumen, and in these the system itself is enfeebled, the albumen necessary for vital action being drawn from the tissues, and more especially from the muscles producing a "wasting" action or "decline". Within the body proteids undergo a complex series of decompositions, gradually becoming oxidized and simpler in structure, till as an end product they form urea, in which shape most of the nitrogenous waste leaves the body. This is especially true of gelatin and its allies, which have not the same tissue-forming value as albumen, though containing more nitrogen. They, however, pass very readily into "circulating" albumen, and in this way jellies, &c, may serve as tissue- saving material. All proteids are therefore concerned in the absorption and utilization of oxygen.