235 WINES. malt, and most brewers add large quantities of sugar, either as such or in the form of molasses. The bitter principle in beer was originally derived from hops, and in Bavarian beer no other bitter is allowed, and the hops, moreover, must be sun-dried, whereas in Britain they are kiln- dried and bleached by the fumes of burning sulphur. The active principle in hops is lupulin, and the peculiar drowsiness observable in beer-drinking, is due to oil of hops. British law allows other aromatic bitters as hop substitutes, and gentian, quassia, calumba, and others are extensively used in this way. The physiological action of these substances is much the same; as their name implies they stimulate the sense of taste, and by reflex action not only induce a greater flow of saliva but excite the stomach secretions as well. On being swallowed, they act directly on the stomach and cause a sensation _ like hunger, thus rousing the appetite, while at the same time the local circulation and the heart are stimulated, thus producing a " tonic " effect. It is evident that if food is not taken shortly after a bitter, the auxiliary effect of the latter is so far thrown away. Many of these substances contain tannin, and thus they stimulate the bowels, arresting fermentation and so removing flatulence, while evacuating the bowel. They are therefore of great service in dyspepsia, or in cases where, owing to overwork or similar exhaustion of energy, the diges- tive process cannot be properly carried on. Of all the bitters, calumba is perhaps the least irritating, but if taken in excess or without any cause they lose their effect, and the stomach finds itself unable to proceed without its accustomed spur. Within the last two or three years a great many teetotal beers have gained public confidence under the name of hop bitters of various kinds. They are all infusions of malt or other sugary substances, but aerated by carbonic acid gas under pressure, and they owe their bitterness to hops or some of its substitutes. To these there can be no objection whatever on the score of alcohol, and their use is rapidly extending. All beers contain free acid, generally carbonic, and in the case of the Belgian naturally-fermented beers, lactic acid as well. When beer turns sour, a thing rarely possible in "low" fermentation, the acetic acid developed makes it hard. These acids, acetic and lactic, form alkaline carbonates within the body, and in this way, like the vegetable acids generally, they maintain the blood in its natural condition. Of all alcoholic drinks beer contains the least amount of