FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 36 within the cells of the vegetable, but by rubbing, some of the cells have been broken, and the grains liberated in consequence. As the diagram shows, the great mass- of the potato is formed of cells containing starch grains, and a similar structure char- acterizes wheat, oats, rice, and all the farinaceous foods. Raw starch is insoluble in cold water, but dissolves in boiling water, forming a paste on cooling. It is thus not a crystalline, but a colloid or glue-like body. When a little iodine solution is added to starch the latter becomes deep-blue, owing to the formation of iodide of starch; the blue colour disappears on heating, but reappears on cooling. This is a valuable test for starch, and may be used for demonstrating its presence in a great many food-stuffs. If now a little dry starch be heated in a pan, the starch turns yellowish, just like bread when toasted, and if the heating be arrested at this stage, it will be found that a new substance has been formed called Dextrin. The same change would be accomplished more rapidly by the addition of a little hydrochloric or nitric acid. This differs from starch in being very soluble in water, forming what is called British Gum, so much used for postage stamps, envelopes, &c. Although it has the same chemical composition as starch, it strikes a reddish-brown with iodine instead of dark-blue. Now take a little boiled rice, and after applying the iodine test to a sample to demonstrate the presence of starch, add some saliva, or chew the rice for a few minutes. On again applying the iodine test, instead of the starch-blue there is got a purple, or even no colour at all. This instructive experiment shows that digestion begins in the mouth, and that by means of saliva starchy matters are converted into dextrin, or even further, into a substance which gives no colour with iodine. This digestive change is due to a substance in the saliva called Ptyalin, one of the numerous class of digestive ferments. It acts upon starch alone, converting it successively into dextrin and maltose, or sugar of malt. This explains why dry toast and rusks are so suitable for children and invalids, for in the process of manufacture nearly all the starch in those is altered to dextrin, thus saving a stage in digestion. In infants ptyalin is not formed in the saliva for several months after birth, so that infants should in no case get starchy foods, such as arrowroot, until they are at least eight months old, since in them neither the saliva nor any other digestive juice can accomplish the necessary conversion