FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 240 forming as by-products water with common salt in solution. The gas is forced into the bottles previously filled with water from which the air has been expelled by boiling. If this is not done, on uncorking the liquid is apt to spurt violently and get lost. The colder the water the more gas it will dissolve, and under ordinary conditions water can dissolve five times its own bulk of carbon dioxide. Of recent years very pure carbonic acid has been obtained from the vats of breweries, where it was a waste and sometimes a noxious product. For household purposes gazogenes are coming very largely into vogue, and they need no description. The materials used are baking-soda and tartaric acid, the exact proportions being 8 : 7, or nearly 3 ounces altogether for a 5-pint gazogene, and the by-product, retained in the upper compartment, is acid tartrate of soda, resembling cream of tartar. Any solid acid substance may be used instead of tartaric acid, such as citric acid, cream of tartar, acid sulphate of potash, and so on. Ordinary soda water is simply water charged as above with carbonic acid gas, but true soda water or Vichy water may be made by adding a little baking-soda to the water in the lower globe. Potash water may be got by using instead carbonate of potash, and Setters water by adding salt and baking-soda, In the lesson on hard and soft waters it was stated that carbonate of lime, though insoluble in ordinary water, becomes soluble in water containing carbonic acid, and this property may be utilised in preparing aerated lime or magnesia waters. In Aerated Lime- water precipitated calcium carbonate is added to the water, causing a milkiness, which disappears as the liquid becomes charged with gas. Carrara water gets its name from the similar employment of finely-powdered Carrara marble, while aerated magnesia may be made in like manner from carbonate of magnesia, and this will be found a very agreeable form of administering magnesia to children. In short, the liquid in the lower globe may be medicated to almost any extent by compounds soluble in carbonized water, thus one might have seidlitz-powders always "on draught" by dissolving Eochelle salt and other laxatives, and to patients who cannot take medicines such as iron in the ordinary forms the gazogene may prove very useful. When added to fruit syrups, lemonade, ginger-beer, &c, may be formed, but nothing so allays thirst as natural lemon-juice diluted from the gazogene; soda and milk also will be found to lie lighter on the stomach than milk alone, especially in