126 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Skimmed Milk, therefore, contains most of the casein, albumen, and milk-sugar, with the water, and is thus highly nutritious though watery. Skim-milk generally contains 1 per cent of fat, but the modern centrifugal process of separating cream removes it much more thoroughly, so that " separated " milk contains no fat to speak of. In this process the Avhole milk is whirled rapfily, and just as air-bubbles and other light materials collect in the vortex of a whirlpool, so the oil-globules which constitute cream collect in the centre of the separator, while the heavier portions, consisting of plasma, are driven to the circumference, the extraction of both cream and separated milk proceeding continuously. In connection with this, it may be mentioned that in the case of tuberculous milk the tubercle bacilli, being solid bodies and relatively heavier than plasma, are driven to the extreme circumference of the separator, and are found thickly accumu- lated in the " glut" which covers that part of the machine. In this way there may be obtained from infected milk, cream, and even separated milk, prefectly free from tubercle and other germs. Butter-milk contains all the constituents of milk, even fat, to the extent of 1J per cent, and it is never altogether fat-free. The sourness of butter-milk is due to lactic acid, developed at the expense of lactose or milk-sugar, under the influence of the lactic-acid bacillus, and the proportion of lactic acid tends con- tinually to increase. It is absent, of course, in milk newly drawn from the cow, but soon gets it from the air, and in a few hours is present in appreciable quantity. " Turned " or soured milk has been allowed to decompose by natural fermen- tation in this way; the casein is clotted by the lactic acid pro- duced, and there are formed at the same time various bye- products which combine to render soured milk unwholesome. The lactic acid ferment acts more rapidly in warm weather, as is well known by the difficulty of preserving milk in summer. Lactic acid combines with zinc, forming lactate of zinc, and milk should therefore never be kept in zinc vessels. Various methods have been devised for the preservation of milk, but they may be classed as—(1) evaporating processes; (2) addition of chemicals; (3) application of cold; (4) heat and then cold. The condensed milk now so largely used is of two kinds sweetened and unsweetened, the former having 22 per cent of cane-sugar added. The milk is evaporated in a vacuum- pan so as to remove most of its water at a temperature under