FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 58 The interior of an empty stomach shows a number of folds running lengthways, the object being to increase the diges- tive surface; when the organ is filled with food these creases disappear. The stomach is lined with mucous membrane, containing the very important gastric glands. These secrete the gastric juke, and, like the salivary glands, they are excited to activity by the presence of food in the stomach. They are short straight tubes, often arranged in clusters, and are of two kinds—the fundus glands, found in the fundus or cardiac end, and the pyloric glands. The fundus or cardiac glands secrete a gastric juice containing the soluble ferment pepsin, as well as free hydrochloric acid; the pyloric secretion contains no acid. The Gastric Juice is thus a very acid liquid, clear, colourless, and having a peculiar odour. It contains very little solid matters, about £ per cent, and is secreted in considerable quantity, the daily amount being something like one-tenth of the body weight! Besides mucus and salts, it contains free hydrochloric acid and two ferments, pepsin and rennin or rennet. The stomach glands manufacture this hydrochloric acid from chlorides taken in and with food, especially from chloride of sodium or common salt, which is thus necessary to digestion. Rennet has long been prepared from the stomach of the calf, and is used for curdling milk in cheese-making, since it forms casein; its action in the human stomach is the same. Pepsin acts upon proteid matters, gradually dissolving them in the presence of hydrochloric acid, and converting them first into intermediate bodies called albumoses, and finally into peptone, which, being very diffusible compared with the original albumen, passes easily into the blood-vessels of the stomach. The action of the stomach may be imitated by the following instructive experiment:—Take three glass beakers, and into each put a little water and some fibrin, obtained by washing a blood-clot. Into No. 1 put a pinch of pepsin, about 3 per 1000 is the proper proportion; into No. 2 a drop or two of hydro- chloric acid, 2 per 1000; and into No. 3 both pepsin and acid. Keep these at blood-heat for a quarter of an hour or so, and the following results will be obtained:— No. l. Water + Pepsin and Fibrin. No change. No. 2. Water + Acid and Fibrin. Fibrin swells up and becomes acid albumen No. 3. Water + Pepsin + Acid and Fibrin. Fibrin is dissolved, syntonin. j forming peptone.