THE CIRCULATION. 99 The heart has been compared to a semi-detached cottage, each side having its own rooms, but having no connection with next door; and as the right side of the heart is devoted to impure blood, and the left to aerated blood, any connection between the two would lead to the introduction of mixed blood into the system. Before birth, however, such a connection does exist between the auricles, hence the body of an unborn child is in no place supplied with pure blood. The blood then pursues the following course through the heart, &c. See Plate, A. Impure blood comes from the body by two large trunks, the superior and inferior venae cavse, the former conveying blood from the head and upper part of the body, the latter from the rest of the body, including the portal system. It will be remembered that the thoracic duct pours its contents into the veins of the neck and shoulder, so that the fatty materials of the food have their associates in the small intestine, and reach the heart by a totally different route, via lacteals, thoracic duct, and superior vena cava, while sugars, proteids, &c, go by the portal vein, liver, and inferior vena cava. These two trunks converge upon the right auricle, which upon contracting forces the blood through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. Since the auricular contraction is not very pronounced, there are no valves at the entrance of the great veins, the head of blood in these being quite sufficient to resist the stroke of the auricle. From the right ventricle the blood is next forced through the semi-lunar valves into the pulmonary arteries, to be conveyed to the lungs for aeration, and it is prevented from returning into the auricle on the one hand or the ventricle on the other by the closing in order of the tricuspid and semi-lunar valves respectively. Since the right ventricle has only to force the blood to the lungs, its walls are only from one-third to half the thickness of the left ventricle, and its weight is just half. The blood thus purified returns from the lungs by the pulmonary veins into the left auricle, from which it passes through the mitral valve into the left ventricle, the powerful force-pump which propels the blood for nourishment to all the tissues, including the head and lungs themselves. This in contracting forces the blood through the semi-lunar valves into the aorta, which gives off first the coronary arteries to the heart itself, then arches over the base, giving off large vessels to the head and shoulders, and finally passes down the chest close to the backbone, giving off vessels as it goes. These pass into capillaries, and these again into