204 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. been provcrl to be injurious when pure. Sugar-candy contains 80 per cent of crystallized sugar, and a trace of uncrystallized sugar, which gives it its yellow colour, the rest being water. Toffy is sugar cooked with butter. Icing for cakes is white sugar mixed with albumen in the form of white of egg. Acid drops are flavoured with citric and other fruit acids, while peppermint drops consist of cane-sugar, albumen, and oil of peppermint. Unless the sweetmeats are hard there seems no objection to them on the score of the teeth; the stomach is rather the organ to get out of order. Children naturally like sugar and detest fats, and it is a mistake to hide the sugar-bowl, good brown sugar being better for them than more highly refined forms, as treacle is superior to syrup. As already explained, the danger to the teeth arises from the fact that under the in- fluence of the lactic acid ferment, always present in the mouth, sugary matters and carbohydrates generally are partially de- composed into lactic acid, which attacks the substance of the teeth, giving entrance to the fungus which causes caries. Children should be trained to use the tooth-brush with cold water after every meal, and in this way they will be saved a great deal if not all of the pain and expense which have in these days come to be regarded as inevitable. Vinegar.—Among all the different condiments there is none so useful as vinegar, whether in the processes of cooking or for its action within the body. There are two methods of making vinegar, one by the destructive distillation of wood, giving rise to a form called pyroligneous acid, never used as food, and containing before refining several empyreumatic products, tarry matters, &c. The other process is by oxidation of alcohol, and is exemplified in the souring of beer or wine when exposed to the air, owing to the action of an aerial ferment which con- verts alcohol, first into an intoxicating substance, aldehyd, and then into acetic acid, one of the group of fatty acids. The word vinegar itself means sour wine, and to form wine or malt vinegar theso liquors are exposed to the air at 77° for about a fortnight. As thus manufactured it contains generally 5 per cent of acetic acid, never less than 3 and often up to 6 per cent; besides this, colouring matter, and volatile ethers which communicate the special flavour of the different brands. The law also allows 1 part in 1000 of sulphuric acid, an addition which serves no useful purpose, and is rather to be deprecated on account of the tendency of sulphuric acid to form insoluble salts of lime