GASTRIC DIGESTION. lil At this point some remarks on Indigestion may not be out of place. Dyspepsia, or disorder of gastric digestion, may be induced by several causes. It may be due to want of tone m the muscular walls of the stomach, so that the churning and propulsive movements are interfered with; or it may be due to defects in the secretion of gastric juice, a deficiency of pepsin or hydrochloric acid, or perhaps an excessive amount of the latter. But the commonest cause of indigestion is irritation of the mucous lining of the stomach, so that the mucous glands pour out an abundant supply of thick, ropy, alkaline mucus which completely clogs the openings of the peptic glands and prevents the gastric juice from exercising its full influence on the food. This gastric catarrh is most commonly induced by the introduction into the stomach of unsuitable materials, which act as irritants to the delicate mucous membrane. Im- perfect mastication is largely responsible for this, the food being introduced into the stomach in a rough condition instead of the salivated mass intended by nature. Imperfect chewing may occasionally be attributed to defects in the teeth, particu- larly in the molar teeth, and in such a case the cure of indiges- tion is a matter more for a dentist than a physician. But by far the most prevalent cause of incomplete mastication is to be found in the high pressure of modern life, and especially city life; the hurry which gives a man twenty minutes for lunch or dinner; the suburban train which lets him home for dinner, but cheats him in the act out of two-thirds of the dinner hour. The stomach expends a-certain amount of energy in performing its duties, and recpiires a corresponding amount of what may be called nerve-force; nature demands, therefore, that the commencement at least of digestion shall be unhampered by calls upon the organism from without in the shape of muscular exercise, mental distraction, or the thousand-and-one worries of commercial or domestic life. No man can serve two masters, and the stomach, which at such a time needs an increased supply of blood, must perforce suffer if that same blood be imperatively demanded for muscle or brain. Not only does imperfectly chewed food act as an irritant, but any unsuitable food does, even suitable food if in excess; for the gastric-juice is not sufficient to cope with such a quantity, and the result is that the partially-digested mass behaves like a foreign body. A similar result may be due to decomposing foods, the action in their case being chemical as well as mechanical; and the same kind of action is induced by