260 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Ulcer of the stomach demands more careful handling, but still on the principle of rest. The points to be aimed at are these:—(1) to avoid irritation, either mechanical or chemical; (2) to avoid foods which would increase the acidity of the stomach, since the acid secretion injures the surface of the ulcer; (3) to avoid foods which tend to ferment and produce dilation, with possible stretching of the sore. The patient is thus shut up to bland fluid food, given in small quantities, not more than 2 ozs. at a time, and a beginning may be made with milk diluted with its own bulk of boiling water or soda water. Later on, an egg beaten up with 2 table-spoonfuls of water and strained ("albumen water"), may be added to 2 ozs. of the diluted milk. Oatmeal jelly may be used here, and is readily assimilated; but it must be a real jelly, containing no irritating granules. Cancer of the stomach is treated in the same way, but if the cancerous growth be at the pyloric end one must aim at having all food digested, as far as possible, in the stomach itself, so as to obviate the passage of irritating materials through the diseased part. Owing to their tendency to ferment, carbo- hydrates must be abandoned, and the dietary will take the shape of milk and alkaline water, peptonized milk, beaten eggs, or concentrated meat solutions, predigested, if need be, to spare the stomach work, an end also attained by rectal feeding. Although the general causes of Dyspepsia have already been dealt with, it may be useful here to recapitulate the most use- ful diets. Its most frequent cause is the introduction into the stomach of crude undigested masses, and so treatment here begins with the teeth. Food must be properly chewed and slowly eaten, and when the teeth are prematurely deficient their place should be supplied or the food given in a finely- divided form. Meats, therefore, should be of the short-fibred white description, bread rather stale, vegetables in purees, and fats finely minced. All irritating matters, such as the cellulose of unripe fruits, vegetables, and nuts, should be shunned, while sweetened dishes are best left alone, on account of acid fermen- tation. Fats are best finely divided; even butter should not be used as in toast buttered warm, since the bread gets satu- rated with butter, and is so far protected from the action of the gastric juice. Since in dyspeptics the stomach functions are. enfeebled, the times of digestion given on a previous page would require to be almost doubled, allowing an interval of from 5 to 8 hours or even more between meals, " one of the