FRUITS. 191 and by boiling, and also on the colloid condition of sugar, deserve attention. When fruits are exposed to the air, espe- cially if the skin be broken and the surroundings are damp, or when exposed, as many of them are in transit, to considerable changes of temperature, they are exceedingly apt to decompose and suffer fermentation changes, which render them very dangerous and a fruitful source of diarrhoea. To minimize risk of damage, fruits for export are gathered while not fully ripe, in which condition there is less risk of breaking the skins, and they ripen in the shop-windows. Grapes come to this country packed in saw-dust or cork clippings to exclude air. Green gooseberries may be preserved in jars filled with sand, bran, or anything else to exclude air, then subjected to a gentle heat to expel moisture, sealed, and placed in some place, such as a cellar, where the temperature is constant. Soft fruits like pears, which go wrong very quickly, are likewise packed.in saw-dust, so as to keep them from touching each other, and so to minimize infection. Of all British fruits, the apple keeps best, and some kinds of winter pears and apples can scarcely be said to have ripened till they have stood some time on the floor or in drawers, and medlars, like game, are not fit for use till they are beginning to decay. Fruits may be classified botanically, or medicinally as laxa- tives, diuretics, refrigerants, &c, but it will be more convenient to adopt a more popular classification as follows:—(1) Apple, pear, quince; (2) orange, lemon, lime, shaddock; (3) stone fruits: plum, peach, apricot, cherry, olive, date; (4) acid fruits: grape, gooseberry, currant, cranberry, barberry, &c.; (5) fleshy fruits: strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, mulberry; (6) pine-apple, fig, banana; (7) nuts. Apples are firmer than most fruits owing to the greater pro- portion of cellulose, and to this and to the presence of malic acid they owe their laxative properties, properties shared also by cider or apple wine. They are rich in pectin, and thus readily forms a jelly. The ratio of sugar to acid in dessert-apples varies from 12:1 up to 22:1 in the sweetest kinds; in cooking- apples it is never higher than 8:1. Cider will be treated under the head of alcoholic drinks. The fermented juice of the crab-apple is known as verjuice. Biffins or beaufins are apples slowly dried in bakers' ovens, and occasionally pressed till they become soft and flat. They are prepared in great quantity in Norfolk. Pears have less acid and cellulose than apples, and a ripe r